{"id": "55768386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55768386", "title": "Academic entrepreneur", "text": "Academic entrepreneur\n\nThe common definition of academic entrepreneur is similar to the original definition of ‘entrepreneur.’ It states “the AE (academic entrepreneur) is a university scientist, most often a professor, sometimes a PhD student or a post-doc researcher, who sets up a business company in order to commercialize the results of his/her research” Academic entrepreneurship today can be understood as either:\n\n-         A knowledge-based profession that is centered around technological development\n\n-         An income-oriented activity that creates a small business or firm from said technological development\n\n-         A particular behavior to be adapted by researchers in order to modify the pattern of university research\n\nThe scientific career in the early 19th century had very few sources of funding and support coming from the university, state, or federal level, very much in contrast to the system today. Thus, those who wanted to make a career in the sciences at that time started such by performing geological and natural history surveys. These surveys were funded by both the state and federal governments, and offered temporary employment for professionals such as chemists, mineralogists, and geologists. However, once the surveys were completed, many of these scientists found themselves unemployed. While in Britain, there were a number of other opportunities for academic employment outside of surveys (such as writing, reviewing, instrument making, and public lecturing) American scientists of the time struggled to find well paying jobs. Thus, to create more opportunities, many of these men began to lobby for more state and federal surveys that would offer more employment, which required experience, expertise, and a good deal of self-promotion. During these times, men of science first began to act like entrepreneurs, linking the two fields of science and entrepreneurship to create AE . ‘Academic entrepreneurship’ also originates from the American system of research, due to the fact that many universities in the US already possess entrepreneur-like characteristics. These characteristics include procuring funding and networking for resources. They are known to market their developments as products and ‘sell’ them at conferences, in a similar fashion to other economic businesses.\n\nA key distinction between the academic field of entrepreneurship and other entrepreneurial professions is that often small businesses tend to focus on societal impact and proliferation of their product, while researchers and the products that they market also aid in the progression and of the academic field. Many, if not most, AE’s are also linked in some way to their university, faculty members, and students with both formal and informal obligations, which can create certain constraints and opportunities for researchers, while entrepreneurial businesses don't hold such connections.\n\nIn the United States, academic entrepreneurs are primarily employed by the Universities where they conduct their research and business from. This provides the institution with a steady set of researchers and developers who maintain their focus on innovation, while also providing scientists with a reliable source of income while they invest in their innovations. Additionally, universities are often a significant source of funding for researchers and their projects as well, though today we are seeing an emergence of state and federal sources of funding as well. Many universities have created contracts with the scientists that they employ, which legally binds these innovators/researchers and their inventions to the university. This has implications for both the allocation of revenue received from a product and the distribution of credit for the product during its lifetime. The involvement of the university in the work of the AE has also been shaped by the recent adoption of the Bayh-Dole Act. \n\nThe Bayh-Dole Act was enacted in 1980, and offered significant changes to both technology transfer and the field of academic entrepreneurship. This act allowed universities to retain the titles of inventions made through the employees of their institution, and from this be included in the patenting and licensing of innovations made on their campus. The opinion of this act and its significance on the field of academic entrepreneurship has been mixed since its implementation. While some see the shift in university commercialization as overall beneficial, as it promotes profound managerial and policy implications for those involved, others still question whether such institutional arrangements are socially optimal, or optimal for the researchers themselves. Quite a few of these concerns date to well before the act was enacted, and it is still up for debate whether such concerns have been adequately addressed or not.  \n\nSince the enactment of the Bayh-Dole Act, there has been a substantial increase in the commercialization of university technology transfer. When academic entrepreneurship was first initiated, there were two main dimensions of technology transfer: patenting and licensing. There was less time given to the business aspect of these careers, to the point where classes on academic entrepreneurship hadn’t even been established. However, recently there has been an increased importance placed on the start-up dimension of innovation, and the entrepreneur aspect of science has risen to equal, if not greater, importance as the scientific work itself. However, some still question whether the involvement of the university in technology transfer and the promotion of academic entrepreneurship has been truly effective at all. Evidence shows that there is little effectiveness of university technology transfer offices (TTOs) in promoting academic entrepreneurship, prompting many to question whether the Universities involvement is a necessity for the prospering of AE careers, or if researchers would be fine on their own. \n\nThere are a number of differences between academic entrepreneurs of the United States and of Central/Eastern Europe. For one, AE’s employed in the States are considered to be employees at their corresponding university, while in Europe they are seen as “civil servants or state employees”. In addition, there tends to be a much stronger sense of competition between researchers in the US, as they must battle to receive public funding for their projects. On the contrary, the European system does not exhibit such competition, and as a result seems to focus more on “systematic collaboration across institutional boundaries”. The most potent result that arises from such distinction between the eastern and western application of academic entrepreneurship is the effect on the salary of the researchers. For the US, compensation for their researchers is decentralized, which gives the universities a profound amount of autonomy in determining how much they wish to pay their employers. This means that, in many cases, the salary of US-based AE’s is determined primarily by their productivity in the lab and with their research. In Europe, on the other hand, compensation is centralized and thus the universities do not have such autonomy. Compensation is instead determined by the state, which creates a standard rate for all in the same profession.\n\nFurthermore, the US has a multilayer, decentralized system in regards to its decision-making process for research, meaning that approval for research comes from a number of political levels (including federal, state, and local) and agencies (public, private, foundations, etc.) On the other hand, the centralized European system only receives approval from a few levels. \n"}
{"id": "24884814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24884814", "title": "Andrés de Segurola", "text": "Andrés de Segurola\n\nAndrés Perelló de Segurola (27 March 1874 – 23 January 1953) was a Spanish operatic bass.\n\nHe was born on 27 March 1874 in Valencia, Spain.\n\nHe was a member of the Metropolitan Opera Company between 1901 and 1920 and later appeared in many films. He appeared as himself in the 1928 romantic comedy film \"The Cardboard Lover\".\n\nTowards the end of his career at the Metropolitan Opera, De Segurola also became an impresario. In 1916, he presented a four-week opera season at the Grand National Theatre in Havana, where his company included Geraldine Farrar and Pasquale Amato.\n\nAfter his retirement from the stage, he taught singing. Amongst his many pupils was Deanna Durbin.\n\nHe married Mrs. John Bidlake in 1936.\n\nHe died on 23 January 1953 in Barcelona, Spain.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6829514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6829514", "title": "Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship", "text": "Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship\n\nThe Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Program was established by the United States Congress in 1986 in honor of former United States Senator and 1964 presidential candidate Barry Goldwater. Its goal is to provide a continuing source of highly qualified scientists, mathematicians, and engineers by awarding scholarships to college students who intend to pursue careers in these fields.\n\nThe scholarship—the most prestigious undergraduate scholarship given in the natural sciences, engineering and mathematics—is awarded annually to about 300 college sophomores and juniors nationwide. The scholarship is awarded based on merit, and the actual amount given is based on financial need, up to a maximum of $7,500 per academic year.\n\nIn addition, since at least 2006, about 150 exceptional applicants not awarded the Scholarship have been recognized with official Honorable Mentions.\n\nCompetition for the scholarship is intense. Universities are allowed to nominate only four undergraduate students per year to receive the final scholarship, making it a premier award in the US conferred upon undergraduates studying the sciences. Through March 2006, Princeton University had the most Goldwater Scholars with 64, followed by Harvard University with (60), Duke University (58), Kansas State University (57), and the University of Chicago (53).\n\nIn awarding scholarships, the Foundation Board of Trustees considers field of study, career objectives, commitment, and potential to make a significant professional contribution. This is judged by letters of reference, student essays, and prior research experience. The number of scholarships awarded per region depends on the number and qualifications of the nominees for that region. The regions are defined as each of the 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and, considered as a single entity, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "37723857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37723857", "title": "Building Strong Families Program", "text": "Building Strong Families Program\n\nThe Building Strong Families Program (BSF) is part of the Healthy Marriage Initiative funded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, \"to learn whether well-designed interventions can help couples fulfill their aspirations for a healthy relationship, marriage, and a strong family.\"\n\nBetween 2002-2011, \"BSF programs were implemented by non-profit and public agencies at 12 locations in seven states, and enrolled more than 5,000 volunteer couples ... The intervention featured up to 42 hours of multi-couple group sessions led by trained facilitators, focusing on skills that, according to earlier research, are associated with relationship and marital stability and satisfaction.\"\n\nThe ten-year program was implemented through a contract by the Administration for Children and Families with Mathematica Policy Research.\n\nMajor study questions of the Building Strong Families Project included:\n\n\n\"Strengthening relationships and increasing fathers' involvement have emerged as central national policy strategies to improve the lives of low-income families and enhance the well-being of children. We are conducting studies to increase understanding about how to help low-income couples solidify their relationships, engage fathers more fully, and create the best environments in which to raise children ... [our] 10-year Building Strong Families demonstration is testing whether workshops on communication and relationship skills, combined with social supports, can help unwed parents stay together, manage conflict, maintain intimacy, increase the degree to which fathers are involved in their children’s lives, and improve children’s early development. The study is using a rigorous random assignment design and includes more than 5,000 couples in seven states. A report released in May 2010 provides short-term results on BSF’s impacts on couples after about 15 months, focusing on the stability and quality of the couples’ relationships.\"\n\nIn May 2010, Mathematica reported findings from a 15-month follow-up of program and control group participants:\n\n\nScholars offered different perspectives on the findings:\n\nA study from Harvard's Kennedy School reported: \"In general, at the time of the 15-month follow-up the BSF intervention did not have a statistically or substantively significant effect on couples‘ relationship status or quality, or fathers‘ involvement with their children. Although the BSF had little or no effect on couples‘ relationships overall, impacts varied meaningfully across the eight evaluation sites; for example, the Oklahoma City site‘s BSF program had a consistent pattern of positive effects at 15 months. Perhaps most surprisingly, however, at the Baltimore site the BSF intervention had numerous negative effects: at the time of the 15-month follow-up survey, Baltimore couples who had been randomly assigned to participate in the BSF program were much less likely than control group couples to be romantically involved; fathers assigned to the BSF program were less likely to provide substantial financial support for their children or see them regularly; and mothers in the BSF sample were more likely to report experiencing a severe physical assault than were mothers in the control group.\"\n\nIn an article for RH Reality Check, Joseph DiNorcia wrote, \"The evidence is unmistakable: there’s just no amount of government coaxing that will make unmarried couples want to, as Beyoncé would say, 'put a ring on it.' A new report from Mathematica Policy Research, Inc, shows that the relationship skills education programs implemented by the Administration for Children and Families have, with a few exceptions, no effect on participants. These programs provide 'education' and support services to unmarried, low-income, heterosexual couples with newborn babies, and are among the marriage-promotion projects which had been enthusiastically touted by the Bush administration as a magic pill for poverty and unstable families.\"\n\nScott Stanley, Ph.D. and Frank Fincham, Ph.D., two leading researchers in the field of Marriage and Relationship Education (MRE), attributed the impact findings to flaws in program implementation, arguing: \"A summary from the BSF study that marriage/relationship education (MRE) does not work is not tenable, in our view. In addition to studying many other aspects of program and delivery, BSF really became more of a study of participation rates than of the impacts of MRE and other program elements. The main reason is that, in many sites, the 'dose' of MRE that couples received was quite low. In fact, in some sites, only 40% of couples ever attended even one session together.\"\n\n\"Loving Couples Loving Children (LCLC) is a curriculum developed by John and Julie Gottman especially for low-income couples who are expecting a child. John Gottman is world-renowned for his scientific work identifying the predictors of relationship success and failure, while Julie Gottman is a master clinician who provides advanced training in marriage education and couples therapy ... To engage and retain the interest of low-income couples, they substantially modified the presentation of the material by developing a series of video 'talk shows' in which racially and ethnically diverse low-income couples discuss relationship issues. Each of the forty-two sessions in LCLC begins with such a talk show, which leads to a lively discussion among group participants. In these unscripted shows real couples, not actors, describe the challenges they have faced in their relationship and how they overcame them. The second half of each group session is devoted to activities that teach specific skills and techniques that couples can use to address the issues raised in the video. Participants practice skills with their partners during the session, with individual attention from the male and female co-facilitators, as needed.\"\n\n\"Love's Cradle is based on the well-established Relationship Enhancement (RE) program, adapted and supplemented by new material developed especially to address issues identified by researchers as crucial barriers to positive family formation in fragile families. Created by Mary Ortwein, a marriage and family therapist with experience serving low-income families, and Bernard Guerney, the original developer of RE, Love's Cradle relies on a simplified and more culturally sensitive version of Relationship Enhancement taught at the fifth-grade level, and adds content to the standard RE skills. The simplified version avoids psychological jargon and teaches skills at a slower pace, with greater access to individual skills coaching. Love's Cradle consists of twenty-one two-hour group sessions. Ten sessions, most at the beginning of the program, are devoted to the simplified RE skills. Additional sessions allow couples to use their new skills to address the issues indicated by research to be common to low-income couples, including how to build, rebuild, and maintain trust; deal with multiple- partner fertility; manage emotions; work as a team on money matters; and reframe their understanding of marriage. Love's Cradle was field-tested with low-income couples and will be part of the Building Strong Families national evaluation.\"\n\n\"The Becoming Parents Program (BPP) curriculum, developed by Dr. Pamela Jordan, focused on three areas: (1) communication, problem-solving, friendship, and fun; (2) self-care and anger management; and (3) infant care and development. To meet BSF requirements, BPP was adapted to include material relevant for low-income families. The information on communication, problem-solving, friendship, and fun was largely drawn from the PREP curriculum. Skills included using a 'speaker–listener' technique, establishing ground rules, identifying hidden issues, and maintaining friendship and fun in the relationship. The focus on self-care and anger management included such strategies as using time-out to prevent escalation. Material was adapted from the Stop Anger and Violence Prevention program and the Domestic Conflict Containment Program.\"\n\n\"Catalog of Research: Programs for Low-Income Couples,\" Mathematica Policy Research, May 2012.\n\n\"The Effects of Building Strong Families: A Healthy Marriage and Relationship Skills Education Program for Unmarried Parents\", Wood, Robert G., et al., Spring 2012.\n\n\"BSF's Effects on Couples Who Attended Group Relationship Skills Sessions: A Special Analysis of 15-Month Data,\" May 15, 2011\n\n\"The Building Strong Families Project: Initial Implementation of a Couples-Focused Employment Program,\" October 15, 2010\n\n\"Strengthening Unmarried Parents' Relationships: The Early Impacts of Building Strong Families Executive Summary,\" May 10, 2010.\n\n\"Effects of Employment on Marriage: Evidence from a Randomized Study of the Job Corps Program,\" December 17, 2008.\n\n\"Implementing Healthy Marriage Programs for Unmarried Couples with Children: Early Lessons from the Building Strong Families Project,\" July 17, 2006.\n\nSupporting Healthy Marriage Project: \"The first large-scale, multisite, multiyear, rigorous test of marriage education programs for low-income married couples.\" The project is motivated by research that \"indicates that married adults and children raised by both parents in stable, low-conflict households do better on a host of outcomes.\"\n\nDuring this period, Paul Peluso, Ph.D. Assistant Professor at Florida Atlantic University, and others conducted several studies on the impact of brief marriage and relationship education classes for PAIRS Foundation. Findings differed significantly from those of the Building Strong Families study.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37796219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37796219", "title": "Caroline D. Bradley Scholarship", "text": "Caroline D. Bradley Scholarship\n\nThe Caroline D. Bradley Scholarship (CDB Scholarship) is a highly competitive merit-based full scholarship for United States citizens that identifies exceptionally gifted middle school students nationwide who have demonstrated high academic potential and personal excellence and offers them a four-year scholarship to a high school that best fits their intellectual and personal needs. The scholarship pays for four years of tuition at a private high school. Students must apply while in the 7th grade. The application deadline is in May. \n\nScholarship recipients must score in the top 97% on a nationally normed standardized test and take the College Board SAT college admissions test or the ACT test while in seventh grade. Applicants also write essays and finalists have an interview. Current scholars and available alumni attend an annual retreat to discuss issues of global importance and personal relevance. The scholarship was launched in 2002 with 5 students. In 2012, the college with the largest number of previous Caroline D. Bradley Scholarship winners currently enrolled as undergraduates was Harvard University. Fifteen students were selected as 2012 Caroline D. Bradley Scholars. \n\nThe Caroline D. Bradley Scholarship is the only U.S. scholarship which pays for full tuition for high school students and that is not restricted to students who are from low-income backgrounds. The Jack Kent Cooke Foundation Young Scholars Program, awarded by Jack Kent Cooke's namesake foundation, is available to students from low-income backgrounds. These are the only two U.S. scholarships that are national competitions and that pay for high school tuition at any high school. It is possible to be awarded both scholarships.\n"}
{"id": "2904679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2904679", "title": "Centre for Environment Education", "text": "Centre for Environment Education\n\nThe Centre for Environment Education (CEE) in India was established in August 1984 as a Centre of Excellence supported by the Ministry of Environment and Forests. The organisation works towards developing programmes and materials to increase awareness about the environment and sustainable development. The head office is located in Ahmedabad. The Centre has 41 offices across India including regional cells in Bangalore (South), Guwahati (North East), Lucknow (North), Ahmedabad (West) and Pune (Central); state offices in Delhi, Hyderabad, Raipur, Goa, Coimbatore; and several field offices. It has international offices in Australia and Sri Lanka.\n\nThe Centre for Environment Education was created in recognition of the importance of environmental education in India’s overall environment and development strategy. The CEE was established as a Centre of Excellence in 1984, supported by the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF), Government of India. Mr. Kartikeya Sarabhai is the Director of CEE.\n\nCEE has inherited the rich multi-disciplinary resource base and varied experience of Nehru Foundation for Development, its parent organisation, which has been promoting educational efforts since 1966 in the areas of science, nature study, health, development, and environment.\n\nAt the time it began its activities, CEE was perhaps the only organization actively engaged in environmental education in the country. While carrying out programmes in different parts of the country, it was located only at Ahmedabad. Within five years of activities, it was realized that for a country as vast and diverse as India, physical presence was important for effective implementation. Based on this, the first regional office was opened for the Southern region in 1988-89. Since then it has been a conscious effort to have an office or presence in the geographical area of work.\n\nAfter completing a decade of activities in 1994, it was decided to move more from environmental education to environmental action. This was an outcome of the learnings and experiences in the first ten years. CEE began more pilot, field-level and demonstration projects towards sustainable development which could be scaled-up and replicated. Within the next ten years, these projects formed a major chunk of Centre's activities.\n\nToday, CEE works for a wide range of sectors, target groups and geographical areas. CEE sees a major opportunity in the UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (DESD-2005-14) to further contribute towards sustainable development. CEE is the nodal agency for implementation of DESD activities in India under the Ministry of Human Resources Development, Government of India.\n\nCEE's programmes in the Decade will focus on\nTraining and Capacity Building,\nInternships and Youth Programmes,\nConsultancy Services,\nKnowledge Centre for ESD, and\nJournal on Education for Sustainable Development.\n\nCEE's primary objective is to improve public awareness and understanding of the environment with a view to promoting the conservation and sustainable use of nature and natural resources, leading to a better environment and a better quality of life. To this end, CEE develops innovative programmes and educational material, and builds capacity in the field of Education and Sustainable Development (ESD). It undertakes demonstration projects in education, communication and development that endorse attitudes, strategies and technologies which are environmentally sustainable. CEE is committed to ensuring that due recognition is given to the role of education in the promotion of sustainable development.\n\nCEE's work is organised around thrust areas \nAs an organising principle.\n\n\nThe expanding scope and geographical coverage of the Centre’s projects and programmes have led to the development of an emerging institutional profile in the South Asian and Asia Pacific region.\n\nIncorporated in July 2001, CEE Australia is dedicated to raising awareness and supporting an informed approach to environment and development issues in Australia and the Asia Pacific region.\n\nRegistered in September 2004, CEE Sri Lanka has a mandate to promote environmental education and communication in Sri Lanka, strengthen EE programmes and respond to local/regional needs. It will facilitate synergies and collaborations based on learnings and experiences of EE in India and Sri Lanka.\n\nBCEE, a partnership with the Bangladesh Centre for Advanced Studies, contributes to meeting the Environment Education and Communication needs in Bangladesh.\n\n"}
{"id": "55227436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55227436", "title": "Children’s rights in Azerbaijan", "text": "Children’s rights in Azerbaijan\n\nProtection of children’s rights is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan and a number of other laws. Children’s rights embrace legal, social and other issues concerning children.\n\nAccording to the Law on the Rights of the Child and the Family Code of Azerbaijan, when a child’s rights and interests are violated, including failure of parents in their responsibilities in a child’s education and upbringing, the child has the right to apply to a number of unjudicial state bodies, as well as the courts. A child can apply individually or through their representatives depending on the right that has been violated and the corresponding procedural rules thereof.\n\nOne department of the State Committee for Family, Woman and Child Issues that was established at the presidential decree dated on 6 February 2006, deals with problems in this context. The Committee holds responsibility for protecting children, developing their welfare, providing their rights and freedoms as well as coordination of state policy in this sphere. It conducts regular monitoring in state-controlled institutions, investigates applications made by citizens, organizes acknowledging campaigns, training and events for experts and children, etc.\n\nThe Azerbaijani Government and this Committee cooperate with international institutions in a related-field. Furthermore, Azerbaijan closely cooperates with UNICEF in the field of education, health and other social issues such as children with disabilities, street children, and preventing violence against children, early marriages, child mortality, and preschool education.\n\nIn 1992, the UN Convention on the “Rights of the Child” was ratified in Azerbaijan and eight years later, its two Optional Protocols were ratified, including “Involvement of children in armed conflicts” and “Sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography”.\n\nAzerbaijan adopted the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Administration of Juvenile Justice in 1993, the Convention on Consent to Marriage, Minimum Age for Marriage and Registration of Marriages in 1996, the European Social Charter in 2004, and the Convention on Elimination of Discrimination in Education Sphere in 2006.\n\nThe Government provides the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (UNHCR) with periodic reports for the implementation of Convention and its two Optional Protocols. In addition, Azerbaijan is a side to the Universal Declaration on “Survival, protection and development of children”. A number of national legislative acts have been confirmed in the “on protection of child rights’ as well.\n\nThe CRC is incorporated into national law. In addition, Azerbaijan released the Law on the Rights of the Child harmonizing its legislation with the principles stated in the CRC in 1998. However, the Committee on the Rights of the Child empathized a number of areas of national law which are needed to be reformed in order to be in keeping with the Convention.\n\nUNICEF has been operating in Azerbaijan since 1993. The main aims of the program include establishing a protective environment for all children without making any discrimination. The protection of children against violence, exploitation, abuse and discrimination is a global priority for UNICEF. In Azerbaijan, the principles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women manage the program.\n\nUNICEF accepts survival, protection and development of children as a basis for human progress. In addition, children and families from developing countries get services from UNICEF which it uses political will and material resources to assist the developing countries to guarantee a “first call for children” and to form their capacity to develop relevant policies. Furthermore, the organization focuses on providing special protection for the most disadvantaged children- victims of war, disasters, extreme poverty, all forms of violence and exploitation and those with disabilities. Moreover, it cooperates with United Nations partners and humanitarian agencies to rapidly respond to the issues of children’s rights. In this regard, UNICEF started a project based on children in conflict with the law in 2005. The aims of project include raising awareness of policemen, judges and care/security personnel on human rights of children with the law and establishing proper referral system to help children in the contact with the law enforcement and justice environments. In terms of the project, the organization took actions below:\n\nAction on Integration of Children with Disabilities: UNICEF aims to change attitudes towards children with disabilities in Azerbaijan through reforming home education and reviewing data collection.\n\nAction on Street Children: UNICEF targets improvement of community-based social services for children and working in the streets by working with child protection authorities and NGOs.\n\nAction on Mine Risk Education: In order to enlighten children about possible mine /UXO explosions, UNICEF is working with local partners to add Mine Risk Education in the school curriculum in frontline districts.\n\nIn 1998, United Aid for Azerbaijan (UAFA) was founded aiming to ‘aid long-term development of life in Azerbaijan, with particular focus on children, health and education’. UAFA operates as a local NGO in Azerbaijan though registered in the UK. Pilot projects were introduced by UAFA in cooperation with state bodies to support children with disabilities and their families, bring pre-school services to children from low-income families and establish small teams of social workers in regions where disability, poverty and location threaten the stability of a family.\n\nAzerbaijan celebrates the International Day of Children’s Protection on June 1. Azerbaijan prioritizes a protection of children. In this regard, the actions regarding the development of living conditions, health, education and future employment of children were covered in the State Program of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Child Policy. Furthermore, a special focus was given to the organization of a range of events on children from vulnerable groups, such as children deprived of parental care, with disabilities, from national minorities, as well as refugee and IDP children.\n\nIn addition, Heydar Aliyev Foundation, founded in May 2004, implements a number of projects on the development of childcare institutions’ infrastructure, providing funding for the renovation of orphanages and boarding schools and construction of nursery schools and kindergartens. Besides, the foundation deals with the implementation of the projects directed towards the social integration of children, who have lost their parents and who are brought up in orphanages, as well as of people with disabilities. In regard with the framework of the program titled “Development of children's houses and orphanages”, the Foundation has restored and equipped 34 children’s institutions.\n\nChildren of Azerbaijan\n\nRights of Children\n\nAZERBAIJAN: CHILDREN'S RIGHTS REFERENCES IN THE UNIVERSAL PERIODIC REVIEW\n\nUNICEF in Azerbaijan\n\nLabour rights in Azerbaijan\n"}
{"id": "531744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=531744", "title": "Convocation", "text": "Convocation\n\nA convocation (from the Latin \"convocare\" meaning \"to call/come together\", a translation of the Greek ἐκκλησία \"ekklēsia\") is a group of people formally assembled for a special purpose, mostly ecclesiastical or academic.\n\nA synodical assembly of a church is at times called \"Convocation\"\n\nThe Convocations of Canterbury and York were the synodical assemblies of the two Provinces of the Church of England until the Church Assembly was established in 1920. Their origins date back to the end of the seventh century when Theodore of Tarsus (Archbishop of Canterbury, 668-690) reorganized the structures of the English Church and established national synod of bishops. With the recognition of York as a separate province in 733, this synod was divided into two. In 1225, representatives of the cathedral and monastic chapters were included for the first time and in 1285 the membership of the Convocation of Canterbury assumed the basic form which it retained till 1921: Bishops, Abbots (till the 1530s and the Dissolution of the Monasteries), Deans, and Archdeacons, plus one representative of each cathedral chapter and two for the clergy from each diocese. By the fifteenth century, each convocation was divided into an upper house (the Bishops) and a lower house (the remaining members). In 1921, the number of proctors (elected representatives) of the diocesan clergy was increased to make them a majority in the lower houses.\n\nThe Convocation of York was a relatively small part of the Church in England and Wales with only five member dioceses in Henry VIII's reign. In 1462 it decided that all the provincial constitutions of Canterbury which were not repugnant or prejudicial to its own should be allowed in the Northern Province and by 1530 the Archbishop of York rarely attended sessions and the custom that York waited to see what Canterbury had decided and either accepted or rejected it was well established. The Convocation of York was, in practice, taking second place to that of Canterbury so much so that in 1852 the Archbishop of York Thomas Musgrave stated that since the time of Henry VIII the archbishop had only attended personally two sessions (in 1689 and 1708).\n\nThe legislative powers of the convocations varied considerably over the centuries. Until 1664, they (not Parliament) determined the taxes to be paid by the clergy, but their powers in general were severely curtailed by Henry VIII in 1532/4; and from the time of the Reformation till 1965 they were summoned and dissolved at the same time as Parliament. Under Henry VIII and his successor Edward VI between 1534 and 1553 the Convocations were used as a source of clerical opinion but ecclesiastical legislation was secured by statute from Parliament. Later between 1559 and 1641, Elizabeth I, James I and Charles I gave the force of law to decisions of Convocation without recourse to Parliament by letters patent under the great seal notably the Thirty-Nine Articles (1571) and the 141 Canons of 1603.\n\nThe Convocations were abolished during the Commonwealth but restored on the accession of Charles II in 1660 and they synodically approved the Book of Common Prayer which was imposed by the Act of Uniformity in 1662. Formal sessions at the start of each parliament continued but no real business was discussed until after the Revolution of 1688 which brought William III and Mary II to the throne when attempts to include some of the Protestant dissenters met such resistance in the lower house that the government abandoned them and the Convocations resumed their purely formal meetings\n\nIn 1697 Francis Atterbury published his \"Letter to a Convocation Man concerning the Rights, Powers and Privileges of that Body\" which, in essence, claimed that the Convocation was an estate of the realm like Parliament and that the lower clergy were being illegally disfranchised and denied its proper voice in government. Business was resumed in 1701 and by the time Queen Anne died in 1714 draft canons and forms of service had been drawn up for royal assent. However, there was an inherent tension between the two houses, the lower house was mainly Tory in its politics and high church in its doctrine while the upper house was mainly Whig and latitudinarian and therefore in favour of toleration for Protestant dissenters and their possible reincorporation into the Church of England and feelings ran high until in 1717 the session was prorogued by Royal Writ to avoid the censuring of Bp. Benjamin Hoadley by the lower house (see the Bangorian controversy) and with the exception of an abortive session in 1741 the Convocations met only for formal business at the beginning of each parliament until the middle of the nineteenth century when Canterbury (in 1852) and York (in 1861) began to discuss issues of the day.\n\nThe resumption of proper business was brought about by the political changes which had taken place some twenty years earlier. Until the Great Reform Bill of 1832, Parliament had been theoretically an Anglican body, and many churchmen began to argue that neither Parliament nor the bishops in the House of Lords expressed the mind of the Church as a whole In 1847 the routine session at the beginning of a new Parliament coincided with the polemical nomination of Dr Hampden to the see of Hereford. The formal address to the Queen was debated for six hours and an amendment carried praying the Crown to revive the active powers of convocation. The driving force behind the campaign to achieve this was the London banker, Henry Hoare, who dedicated himself to the task. The opposition was formidable: half the clergy and most of the laity rejected the idea, many politicians were against it and the two archbishops—John Bird Sumner and Thomas Musgrave—had no desire to revive Convocation. The legal basis of the resistance was the claim that convocation could only discuss such business as was expressly specified by the Crown. Over the next eight years it was established that it could debate and act provided it did not try to discuss or frame canons and that the archbishop could only prorogue (adjourn) a session with the consent of his fellow diocesans. In 1851, Canterbury received a petition, in 1853 it appointed committees and by 1855 archb. Sumner was convinced of the value of Convocation and those bishops who had opposed the revival were taking part positively in its debates. Archb. Musgrave maintained his opposition until his death in 1860—he even locked the room where it was due to meet—and the Northern Convocation remained inactive until his successor took office.\n\nThe Convocations have always been exclusively clerical assemblies. However, in 1885 the Convocations agreed to the establishment of parallel Houses of Laity elected by the lay members of the diocesan conferences. These were not part of Convocation; they had no constitutional status and were merely advisory. At the beginning of the twentieth century, both Convocations together with their respective houses of laity began to meet as a Representative Council which however had no legal authority or position. This was superseded in 1920 by the Church Assembly which was given the right to propose measures to Parliament by the \"Enabling Act of 1919\". The Convocations still exist and their members constitute the two clerical houses of the General Synod but, apart from some residual and formal responsibilities, all legal authority is now vested in the Synod which was established in 1970.\n\nIn some universities, the term \"convocation\" refers specifically to the entirety of the alumni of a college which functions as one of the university's representative bodies. Due to its inordinate size, the Convocation will elect a standing committee, which is responsible for making representations concerning the views of the alumni to the university administration. The convocation also, however, can hold general meetings, at which any alumnus can attend. The main function of the convocation is to represent the views of the alumni to the university administration, to encourage co-operation among alumni, especially in regard to donations, and to elect members of the university's governing body (known variously as the Senate, Council, Board, etc., depending on the particular institution, but basically equivalent to a board of directors of a corporation). The equivalent of the Convocation in the Scottish university system is the General Council.\n\nIn the University of Oxford, Convocation was originally the main governing body of the university, consisting of all doctors and masters of the university, but it now comprises all graduates of the university and its only remaining function is to elect the Chancellor of the University and the Professor of Poetry. (The equivalent body at Cambridge is the Senate.)\n\nAt Durham University, Convocation consists of all the graduates of the university along with the Chancellor, Vice,-Chancellor, and Deputy Vice-Chancellor, the Pro-Vice-Chancellors, the heads of colleges, and all professors, readers, senior lecturers and lecturers. It has the power to discuss and make representations on \"any matter whatsoever relating to the University\" and appoints the Chancellor of the University, most recently Sir Thomas Allen on 11 October 2011. Convocation was established by the fundamental statue of the university in 1835 and then consisted of MAs and doctors \"of the three faculties\" at Oxford, Cambridge and Dublin who were members of the university when the statue was passed and those afterwards admitted to the degrees of DD, DCL, MD or MS at Durham. Women were admitted to Convocation from 1913.\n\nIn the University of London, convocation, between its establishment in 1858 and its abolition in 2003, consisted of the university's graduates who were involved in the university's governance. After 1900, convocation had the power to elect the chancellor.\n\nAt some universities and colleges (e.g. University of Chicago, Cornell University, Teachers College, Columbia University, University of Illinois, and most universities in Canada and India), graduation events are called \"convocations\", as opposed to commencements in other universities. At the University of Toronto, convocation events are held at a specific venue named Convocation Hall. At other universities such as Syracuse University, University of Oklahoma, and University of Utah, graduation ceremonies consist of both a commencement and a convocation with the commencement being the larger, university-wide ceremony and the individual colleges presenting degrees at a convocation.\n\nAt other colleges such as Colgate University, The University of Rochester, University of Pennsylvania, Duke University, Georgetown University, Boston College, Carnegie Mellon University, The University of Colorado at Boulder, University of Cincinnati, University of Florida, California State University, Los Angeles, California State University, East Bay, Miami University, The University of Minnesota, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, University of North Dakota, Simpson College, Stanford University, Dartmouth College, Mount Holyoke College, The College of William and Mary, University of Nebraska–Lincoln, Scripps College, The College of St. Scholastica, The University of West Georgia, Marymount University, The University of Arkansas, William Paterson University, University of Southern California, Chapman University, Cornell College and Johnson & Wales University convocation refers to a formal ceremony in which arriving freshmen are welcomed. They also may sign the college \"matricula\", a ceremonial parchment that contains the names of all of the students and alumni.\n\nNew Zealand universities have \"courts of convocation\" by which all graduates elect representatives to the institutions' governing bodies.\n\nIn many universities throughout the world (including countries such as Canada, Ukraine (National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy), Pakistan, India, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka) convocation is the university graduation ceremony to award degrees to students and honorary graduates.\n"}
{"id": "51397922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51397922", "title": "Danish Association of Architects", "text": "Danish Association of Architects\n\nThe Danish Association of Architects (Danish: Akademisk Arkitektforening), or simply AA, is an independent professional body for architects in Denmark. Members have the right to use the title MAA\nAkademisk Arkitektforening was founded at the initiative of L. A. Petersen on 21 November 1879 with the principal aim to advance and promote architectural quality by influencing the planning and design of our physical environment in the widest possible context.\n\nBetween 1951 and 2004, Akademisk Arkitektforening was part of the umbrella organisation Danske Arkitekters Landsforbund/Akademisk Arkitektforening, DAL/AA. In 2004, DAL/AA was demerged into the organisations Akademisk Arkitektforening, Ansatte Arkitekters Råd (now Arkitektforbundet) and the industry organisation Arkitekters Råd /now Danske Arkitektvirksomheder).\n\nThe association is based in the former rectory of the Reformed Church in Copenhagen]]. The building is located in the street Åbenrå. It was acquired by the property investment company Karberghus and put through a renovation in 2014. AA was formerly based in the Architects' House (Arkitekternes Hus) in Strandgade in Christianshavn.\n\n\n\nAkademisk Arkitektforenings's Honorary Medal is awarded to architects and organisations that have made a particularly important contribution to architecture. The medal is awarded in silver or gilded silver.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40576119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40576119", "title": "Don Raunikar", "text": "Don Raunikar\n\nDr. Don Raunikar is an American psychoanalyst from Houston, Texas. He is a Baptist and is married to Kim Raunikar, with whom he adopted their son Jonathan Valentin from Romania through Buckner International. He is the director of New Life Clinics, where he practices psychotherapy, and he is in charge of Lifehouse, a crisis pregnancy center. Raunikar advises singles not to engage in dating but instead to engage in Biblical courtship, which he defines as an interpersonal relationship that honors God and in which both people's actions have the clear goal of pursuing marriage. He wrote the book \"Choosing God's Best: Wisdom for Lifelong Romance\", which was published in 1998. In this book, Raunikar writes that waiting for God's plan to unfold requires courage and faith. Belinda Elliott of the Christian Broadcasting Network called \"Choosing God's Best\" her favorite book on Christian romance and dating. In the book \"The Invisible Bond: How to Break Free from Your Sexual Past\", Barbara Wilson writes that \"Choosing God's Best\" \"resonated with [her] like none other\" of the \"many books on dating\" she had read. In the journal \"Critical Research on Religion\", Courtney Ann Irby of Loyola University Chicago writes about the similarities between \"Choosing God's Best\" and other Evangelical books about premarital romantic relationships, such as Dannah Gresh's \"And the Bride Wore White\", Elisabeth Elliot's \"Passion and Purity\" and \"Quest for Love\", Eric and Leslie Ludy's \"When God Writes Your Love Story\", Ben Young's and Sam Adams' \"The Ten Commandments of Dating\", Henry Cloud's and John Townsend's \"Boundaries in Dating\", Alex Chediak's \"5 Paths to the Love of Your Life\", and Joshua Harris's \"I Kissed Dating Goodbye\" and \"\".\n"}
{"id": "20915457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20915457", "title": "Enoch Turner School", "text": "Enoch Turner School\n\nEnoch Turner Schoolhouse is an historic site and museum owned by the Ontario Heritage Trust. The school was built in 1848, when it was known as the Ward School. The building is located at 106 Trinity Street between King St. E. and Eastern Ave in Toronto, Ontario Canada.\n\nThe original one-room school was established in 1848 by Enoch Turner (1792-1866), a wealthy brewer and philanthropist, to educate the children in the poor neighbourhood surrounding his brewery. Because many of the area's immigrant families were from County Cork in Ireland, the neighbourhood became known as Corktown – a nickname it still carries today.\n\nTurner supplied the funds to construct the Schoolhouse and the land was donated by the adjacent Little Trinity Church. In 1849, the school opened with space for 240 pupils and Turner paid for its operation for three years. It was the first free school in Toronto.\n\nEnoch Turner founded his free school following the Common Schools Act of 1846. After the act was passed, municipalities had the power to raise funds for public education through taxation. However, city officials were unwilling to introduce such taxes, and as a result, all schools that benefited from any kind of public support were closed for a year. This prompted Turner to establish the school, which was a critical catalyst in the development of a provincially supported free school system.\n\nIn 1850, school trustees were elected by the public to oversee educational funding. Free public education officially began at the Trinity Street School in 1851. Daily class size ranged from 80 to 90 students of varying academic levels. There were several different instructors employed by the school trustees - most notably Mrs. Jane Henderson, a Scottish immigrant who taught from 1858-59. In 1859, classes were relocated to the nearby Palace Street School at Palace Street (now Front Street East) and Cherry Street. The Trinity Street School and property were returned to Little Trinity parish, and from the 1860s to the 1960s the school served as a parish hall and Sunday school for the church. In addition, the School and hall served as a recruiting station during the Second Boer War and World War I, and a soup kitchen during the Great Depression. Due to a severe fire at Little Trinity Anglican Church in 1961, the parish could no longer afford to care for the school building, and it fell into disrepair. By the late 1960s, the building was slated for demolition.\n\nTo protect the building and raise funds for its restoration, a group of citizens together with members of the Little Trinity Church congregation set up the Enoch Turner Schoolhouse Foundation on October 8, 1970. The former Trinity Street School was renamed Enoch Turner Schoolhouse. After extensive interior and exterior renovations, the Schoolhouse opened as a living history site and conference and reception centre. In March 2008, the ownership and operation of the Schoolhouse were transferred to the Ontario Heritage Trust from the Foundation. The Enoch Turner Schoolhouse Foundation continues as an independent charitable organization, working with the Trust to support the programming and operation of the Schoolhouse. The museum is open for education programs by appointment and open to walk-in visitors during regular business hours.\n\nThe design of the one-story Gothic Revival style brick schoolhouse is attributed to architect Henry Bowyer Lane. In 1869, the building was expanded to the west with an addition designed by noted Toronto architectural firm Gundry and Langley. The addition is a particularly early work by Henry Langley, who opened his own practice that same year, following the death of Thomas Gundry. Langley went on to become one of the most influential 19th-century architects in Ontario, designing important Toronto landmarks such as the Metropolitan United Church (56 Queen Street East), McMaster Hall (273 Bloor Street West) and the Bank of British North America (49 Yonge Street).\n\nThe Museum is affiliated with: CMA, CHIN, and Virtual Museum of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "996488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=996488", "title": "European Baccalaureate", "text": "European Baccalaureate\n\nThe European Baccalaureate (or EB) is a bilingual educational diploma awarded to students who pass the final year exam at a European School. The diploma is awarded for the successful achievement of coursework and concomitant examinations which require that students take a minimum of 10 courses as well as be fully proficient in two languages. Students may take up to 14 courses. There are currently 14 European Schools. These are mainly attended by students whose parents work for a European institution.\n(This diploma should not be confused with other types of educational qualifications which also bear the name \"Baccalaureate\" like the \"International Baccalaureate\". In German, the European Baccalaureate is called the \"Europäisches Abitur\", not to be confused with the German \nAbitur.)\n\nThe European Baccalaureate is a bilingual diploma taken at the end of the seventh year of secondary education. Students must study a minimum of ten subjects and are examined by means of written and oral examinations and by continuous assessment. The EB is awarded only by the fourteen European Schools. The EB should be distinguished from the International Baccalaureate (IB) and the baccalaureate of various national systems. Details of the examination are set out in the Annex of the Statute of the European School and in the Regulations for the EB, available from the schools.\n\nThe EB is administered and directly supervised by an external examining board appointed annually by the Board of Governors. The examining board consists of up to three representatives of each member state, who must satisfy the conditions governing the appointment of equivalent examining boards in their respective countries. It is presided over by a senior university educator appointed by each member state in turn, assisted by a member of the Board of Inspectors of the schools.\n\nArticle 5 (2) of the Statute provides that holders of the Baccalaureate shall:\n\n\nThe EB is a two-year course and assesses the performance of students in the subjects taught in secondary years 6-7.\n\nThe first awards of the EB were made in 1959.\n\nThe EB is marked in percentages out of 100, and, in contrast to many national systems (e.g. British A-Levels), comprises a wide range of compulsory subjects and 3-5 elective subjects. Compulsory studies include mother tongue, 1st foreign language, mathematics (5hours/week or 3/hours a week course), philosophy, one science subject, history and geography (both taught in the 1st foreign language), and gym. These also depend on the orientation that the pupil has chosen at the end of year 5. The choice of elective subjects is large (see the list below), although the subject may not be available if the class size is too small.\n\nA minimum of 31 periods a week must be taken, with a maximum of 35 periods, although this is sometimes extended to 36 or even 37 periods.\nAt least 2 Column 3 subjects must be chosen; a maximum of 4 can be taken. There is a core of compulsory subjects which include language 1 (mother tongue), language 2 (first foreign language), mathematics, history, geography, philosophy, religion/ethics and sport. In addition, if no science subject is taken as an elective subject, students must also take a course of two lessons per week in biology. Students must take a minimum of ten courses. They have the choice of two elective subjects of four lessons per week and may take as many as four additional subjects in addition to the ten compulsory subjects. These subjects may include each of the separate sciences, social sciences, Latin, art, music, philosophy and languages 3 and 4. Mathematics can be taken as a 3-lesson or 5-lesson per week course. Additional advanced courses of three lessons per week may be taken in mathematics, language 1 and language 2. Students may also choose complementary courses of two lessons per week such as practical science, introductory economics, art, music and theatre.\n\nThe total mark consists of:\n\nConsequently, there is a heavy workload for the students; the system enforces not only a rounded knowledge of all subjects but also allows students to specialise in individual fields. Students are obliged to have a strong skills in one foreign language (in years 2-5 of secondary school a 2nd foreign language is also compulsory). The final pass-rate is very high (almost always over 98%), in part due to the practice of 'weeding out' candidates who are not academically strong enough to complete the Baccalaureate.\n\nThis process starts from an early age whereby many pupils either leave, are asked to leave or fall foul of the 'three strikes' rule (fail a year 3 times and the student will be asked to leave). Failing the same year twice also means leaving the school. Failing and repeating a year is a fairly common occurrence from age 10 upwards; roughly up to 5% of pupils will fail in each year. The 5th year is comparable to the German 'Mittlere Reife' or British GCSEs.\n\nHowever, the pluridisciplinarity the EB offers is advantageous to students wishing to go on to university studies, in France and Germany especially. Most of the English section students and a significant minority of students from the other language sections apply to British universities. Recent experience (2011-2012 and beyond) has shown that students applying to British universities are encountering growing difficulties, sometimes serious, in having their Baccalaureate qualifications adequately recognised.\n\nThe average overall mark in the EB across the schools has risen only very slightly over time, and the average over the last ten years is very close to 76% with a modest increase in the percentage of students obtaining marks of 80%+. It is extremely difficult to score 90% or more. This reflects the demanding nature of the examination process and the fact that students need to perform very well across a very broad range of subjects and be fully bilingual in two languages. The bilingual demands of the course work and concomitant examinations entail that monolingual students cannot pass.\n\nThe ten compulsory courses include a mother tongue and a second language. Students are also obliged to take a third language in years 1 to 5 upon entry into secondary level education. Students must be highly skilled in two languages. They must take literature classes in both their first language and their second. Although some obligatory classes such as philosophy, biology and mathematics are taught in the students' mother tongue, other compulsory courses such as history and geography are taught in the second language ensuring students are fully bilingual. This insistence on bilingual course work and examination makes it difficult for non-bilingual new entrants to succeed.\n\nIn a study based on a sample of over 500 former European School pupils, Kelly and Kelly compared the performances at British and Irish Universities of students who had taken the EB with the performances of students who had studied A-levels.\n\nThis showed that, in terms of the probability of getting a good degree, an EB score of:\n\nEven students with a bare pass at the EB (60-64) are more likely to get a good degree at university than students who achieved 280-300 UCAS points (BBC, BCC, CCC). The full study can be downloaded from here:\n\nThe passing mark is 60% of the total score; anything under that is a fail. Due to the difficult nature of the exams, students are seldom awarded more than 90%. Like their French and German national and regional counterparts, the European Schools have by and large successfully managed to counter the threat of steady grade inflation.\n\nOne major disadvantage of the EB is that there is no adequate provision for complaint in the event of an exam paper which is perceived to be flawed or unfair. No proper means of redress is available at present.\n\n"}
{"id": "10105330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10105330", "title": "European Union Science Olympiad", "text": "European Union Science Olympiad\n\nThe European Union Science Olympiad (EUSO) is a team-based science competition for the European Union's (EU) students to display their capabilities in natural sciences. The annual EUSO was founded in 2003 by Dr. Michael A. Cotter, Dublin Ireland includes only EU member countries. The competition is open to second-level-school, or secondary school, science students who are 16 years of age or younger prior to the competition. Each participating country sends two three-student teams who compete in two intellectually challenging and collaborative tasks. The tasks are designed to connect the branches of science, provide relevant and inquiry-based challenges, engage all team members, support self-pacing, prompt higher-order and creative thinking, and encourage substantive communication.\n\nThe EUSO was founded in 2003 by Dr. Michael A. Cotter, of Dublin, Ireland, who aimed to create a more practical-based general science competition for young EU students.\n\nThe first EUSO was held in Dublin, Ireland, on 6–13 April 2003. The Director was Dr. Michael A. Cotter. Seven countries attended: Belgium, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Spain, and Sweden. Switzerland sent an observer. The opening and closing ceremonies took place in the Mansion House attended by Minister Noel Treacy TD; Minister Mary Hanafin TD; the Dublin Lord Mayor, Councillor Dermot Lacey; the deputy Lord Mayor; Senator Liam Fitzgerald; and Professor Malcolm Smyth, Dean of the Faculty of Science & Health at Dublin City University (DCU).\n\nThe EUSO 2003 Management Committee included:<br>\n\nThe two experiments were held in the Science laboratories at DCU under the supervision of Mr. Maurice Burke, MSc.\n\nMedals were awarded to the following teams:\nAt the GB meeting, attended by all seven country coordinators, the 2003 edition of the Constitution was agreed. The main changes included the reduction of the student participants’ age to \"sixteen on the previous December 31st\" and the amalgamation of the role of country coordinator with one of the country mentors.\n\nFifteen EU countries participated in the \"second EUSO\" in Groningen, the Netherlands, on 2–8 May 2004. The Director was Drs. Hans Jordens. The host country invited the seven countries that participated in the first EUSO in Dublin in April 2003. They were represented by a total of 19 teams (57 Students): Belgium (2 teams), Germany (3 teams), Ireland (3 teams), Netherlands (3 teams), Spain (3 teams), Sweden (3 teams) and the United Kingdom (2 teams). Each country also sent mentors for Biology, Chemistry and Physics.\n\nMedals were awarded as follows:\nGold medal and EUSO Trophy: Germany (Team B).\nGold medal: Germany (Team C).\nSilver Medals: Sweden (Team C), Netherlands (Team C), Germany (Team A), Ireland (Team A), Belgium (Team A), United Kingdom (Team A) and Ireland (Team C).\nBronze Medals (\"in alphabetical order\"): Belgium (Team B), Ireland (Team B), Netherlands (Team A), Netherlands (Team B), Spain (Team A), Spain (Team B), Spain (Team C), Sweden (Team A), Sweden (Team B) and the United Kingdom (Team B).\n\nScientific Observers represented eight countries that joined the EU in 2004. These countries were Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece, Latvia, Malta, Poland and Slovakia. These countries, and the seven countries listed above, were invited to send a full delegation to the EUSO 2005.\n\nThe \"third EUSO\" was held in Galway, Ireland, on 14–21 May 2005. The Directors were Dr. Michael A. Cotter & Mr. Bernard Kirk. The experiments were developed by and held in NUI Galway and GMIT under the supervision of Dr. Paraic James (DCU). The Patron was Mr. Noel Treacy TD, Minister for European Affairs.\n\nA constitutional change (3.2.1) in 2004 reduced the delegations to two teams with three science students in each and a Mentor for each discipline (Biology, Chemistry and Physics), with one acting as the Country Coordinator and one acting as the Head of the Delegation.\n\nTen countries were represented by a total of 18 teams (54 Students): Belgium (2 teams), Cyprus (2 teams), Estonia (2 teams), Germany (2 teams), Ireland (2 teams), Latvia (1 team), Netherlands (2 teams), Slovakia (1 team), Spain (2 teams) and Sweden (2 teams). Each country also sent three mentors. The United Kingdom sent a Scientific Observer.\n\nMedals were awarded as follows:\nGold Medal & EUSO Trophy: Slovakia (Team A).\nGold Medal: Germany (Team B).\nSilver Medals: Estonia (Team A), Germany (Team A), Belgium, (Team A), Spain (Team A), Ireland (Team B), Netherlands (Team B) and Netherlands (Team A).\nBronze Medals (\"in alphabetical order\"): Belgium (Team B), Cyprus (Team A), Cyprus (Team B), Estonia (Team B), Ireland (Team A), Latvia (Team A), Spain (Team B), Sweden (Team A) and Sweden (Team B).\n\nThe \"fourth EUSO\" was held in Brussels, Belgium, on 2–8 April 2006. The Director was Mr. Victor Rasquin. The experiments were developed by and held in Vrije Universiteit van Brussel (VUB) and the Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB). The Coordinators were Prof. Dr. Luc Leyns and Mrs. Roosje Van Den Driessche and the chairman was Prof. Dr. Louis De Vos. The Patron was Her Majesty, Queen Paola of Belgium.\n\nA delegation of two teams (three students in each) and a mentor for each discipline (Biology, Chemistry and Physics) represented participating countries. One mentor was the Country Coordinator and Head of the Delegation.\n\nTwelve countries were represented by a total of 23 teams (69 Students): Belgium (2 teams), Cyprus (2 teams), Estonia (2 teams), Germany (2 teams), Greece (2 teams), Ireland (2 teams), Latvia (1 team), Netherlands (2 teams), Slovakia (1 team), Spain (2 teams), Sweden (2 teams) and the United Kingdom (2 teams). Each country also sent three mentors. Denmark sent a Scientific Observer.\n\nMedals were awarded as follows:\nEUSO Trophy & Gold Medal: Germany (Team A).\nGold Medal: Latvia (Team A) and Netherlands (Team B).\nSilver Medals: Germany (Team B), Slovakia (Team A), Ireland (Team B), Estonia (Team A), Netherlands (Team A), Estonia (Team B), Belgium, (Team B), Slovakia (Team B), Spain (Team A) and Ireland (Team A).\nBronze Medals (\"in alphabetical order\"): Belgium (Team A), Cyprus (Team A), Cyprus (Team B), Greece (Team A.), Greece (Team B), Spain (Team B), Sweden (Team A), Sweden (Team B), United Kingdom (Team A) and the United Kingdom (Team B).\n\nThe \"fifth EUSO\" was held in Potsdam, Brandenburg, Germany on 25 March – 1 April 2007. The Director was Dr. Eckhard Lucius; Vice Directors, Dr. Marlen Fritzsche and Mr. Matthias Griessner; Secretary, Ms. Renate Glawe. The experiments were developed by and held at the University of Potsdam. The chairman was Professor Thomas Altmann.\n\nSixteen EU countries were represented by a total of 29 teams (87 Students). Delegations included one or two teams of three students, and a mentor for each discipline (Biology, Chemistry and Physics). One mentor was the Country Coordinator and Head of the Delegation. Austria and Bulgaria sent Scientific Observers. International guests from Indonesia and Taiwan represented the IJSO.\n\nTeams: Belgium (2 teams), Cyprus (2 teams), Czech Republic (2 teams), Estonia (2 teams), Germany (2 teams), Greece (2 teams), Ireland (2 teams), Latvia (1 team), Lithuania (1 team), Luxembourg (2 teams), Netherlands (2 teams), Slovakia (2 teams), Slovenia (1 team), Spain (2 teams), Sweden (2 teams) and the United Kingdom (2 teams).\n\nMedals were awarded as follows:\nEUSO Trophy & Gold Medal: Germany (Team B).\nGold Medals: Germany (Team A), Spain (Team A), Estonia (Team A) and Netherlands (Team A).\nSilver Medals: Slovakia (Team A), Lithuania (Team A), Latvia (Team A), Ireland (Team B), Slovakia (Team B), Estonia (Team B), Ireland (Team A), United Kingdom (Team A), Spain (Team B) and Netherlands (Team B).\nBronze Medals (\"in alphabetical order\"): (Teams A); Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Greece, Luxembourg, Slovenia, Sweden, (Teams B); Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Greece, Luxembourg, Sweden and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe \"sixth EUSO\" was held in Nicosia, Cyprus, on 11–17 May 2008. The Director was Mr. Mikis Hadjineophytou. The Organising Committee was assisted by the Director of the Ministry of Education and Culture, Mrs Olympia Stylianou. The experiments, carried out by the students at the University of Cyprus, were developed by the Scientific Committee composed of Dr. Epaminondas Leontides, Chemistry Professor at the University of Cyprus, Dr. Christina Sidera, Dr. Constantinos Phanis, Mr. Anaxagoras Hadjiiosif and Mr. Andreas Papastylianou.\n\nTwenty-one EU countries were represented by a total of 33 teams (99 Students). Delegations included one or two teams of three students, and a mentor for each discipline (Biology, Chemistry and Physics). One mentor was the Country Coordinator and Head of the Delegation. Hungary, Portugal and the United Kingdom sent Scientific Observers.\n\nTeams: Austria (2 teams), Belgium (2 teams), Bulgaria (2 teams), Cyprus (2 teams), Czech Republic (2 teams), Denmark (2 teams), Estonia (2 teams), Germany (2 teams), Greece (2 teams), Ireland (2 teams), Latvia (1 team), Lithuania (2 teams), Luxembourg (2 teams), Netherlands (2 teams), Slovakia (2 teams), Slovenia (1 team), Spain (2 teams) and Sweden (2 teams).\n\nMedals were awarded as follows:\nEUSO Trophy & Gold Medal: Estonia (Team B).\nGold Medals: Netherlands (Team B), Germany (Team A), Slovakia (Team B), Latvia (Team A), Lithuania (Team B), Ireland (Team B) and Cyprus (Team B).\nSilver Medals: Czech Republic (Team A), Lithuania (Team A), Austria (Team A), Czech Republic (Team B), Belgium (Team A), Germany (Team B), Estonia (Team A), Ireland (Team A) and Slovakia (Team A).\nBronze Medals (\"in alphabetical order\"): (Teams A): Bulgaria, Cyprus, Greece, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Slovenia, Spain, and Sweden. (Teams B): Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, Greece, Luxembourg, Spain and Sweden.\n\nThe \"seventh EUSO\" was held in Murcia, Spain from 28 March to 5 April 2009. The Honorary president was His Majesty the King, D. Juan Carlos I of Spain, the Director was Prof. Juan Antonio Rodríguez Renuncio and the Coordinator was Dr. Jorge Molero Fernández. The Organising Committee was chaired by, Ilma. Sra. Dna. Rosa Peñalver Pérez, General Director of Territory Cooperation (Ministry of Educatión), and included, Ilmo. Sr. D. Carlos Romero Gallego, General Director for Educational Promotion and Innovation (Regional Government of Murcia) and, Ilmo. Sr. Dr. D. Francisco Guillermo Díaz Baños, Vice-President of the University of Murcia.\n\nThe two experiments were developed by the Scientific Committee based at Murcia University under the direction of Prof. José Antonio Lozano Teruel and the chairmanship of Prof. Manuel Hernández Córdoba. This committee also included Dr. Carmen López Erroz, Professor of Analytical Chemistry, Dr. Gloria Villoria Cano, Professor of Chemical Engineering, Dr. Patricia Lucas Elio, Professor of Genetic and Microbiology, Dr. Antonio Sánchez Amat, Professor of Genetics and Microbiology, Dr. Jorge de Costa Ruiz, Professor of Physiology, Dr. Antonio Guirao Piñera, Professor of Optics, and Dr. Rafael García Molina, Professor of Applied Physics.\n\nTwenty-one EU countries were represented by a total of 40 teams (120 Students). Delegations included one or two teams of three students, and a mentor for each discipline (Biology, Chemistry and Physics). One mentor was the Country Coordinator and Head of the Delegation. Romania and France sent Scientific Observers for the first time.\n\nTeams: Austria (2 teams), Belgium (2 teams), Bulgaria (2 teams), Cyprus (2 teams), Czech Republic (2 teams), Denmark (2 teams), Estonia (2 teams), Germany (2 teams), Greece (2 teams), Hungary (2 teams), Ireland (2 teams), Latvia (1 team), Lithuania (2 teams), Luxembourg (2 teams), Netherlands (2 teams), Portugal (2 teams), Slovakia (2 teams), Slovenia (1 team), Spain (2 teams), Sweden (2 teams) and the United Kingdom (2 teams).\n\nMedals were awarded as follows:\nEUSO Trophy & Gold Medal: Czech Republic (Team A). \nGold Medals: Hungary (Team A), Germany (Team B), Germany (Team A) and Estonia (Team A).\nSilver Medals: Netherlands (Team A), Lithuania (Team A), Czech Republic (Team A), Ireland (Team A), Belgium (Team A), Netherlands (Team B), United Kingdom (Team B), Austria (Team B), Cyprus (Team B), Lithuania (Team B), Slovakia (Team B) and Greece (Team B).\nBronze Medals (\"in alphabetical order\"): (Teams A): Bulgaria, Cyprus, Denmark, Greece, Latvia, Luxembourg, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom\n(Teams B): Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, Estonia, Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, Portugal, Spain and Sweden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52884462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52884462", "title": "Genetics for Beginners", "text": "Genetics for Beginners\n\nGenetics for Beginners, republished as Introducing Genetics, is a 1993 graphic study guide to Genetics written by Steve Jones and illustrated by Borin Van Loon. The volume, according to the publisher's website, \"takes readers on a journey through this new science to the discovery of DNA and the heart of the human gene map,\" and, \"gives us the information,\" to, \"make moral decisions where genetics plays a part.\"\n\nThis volume was originally published in the UK by Icon Books in 1993 as \"Genetics for Beginners\", and subsequently republished with different covers as \"Introducing Genetics\" and \"Introducing Genetics: A Graphic Guide\".\n\nThe book was described, by illustrator Borin Van Loon, as a companion to \"Darwin for Beginners\" (1982), a previous volume in the series, and as a stand in for the long out-of-print \"DNA for Beginners\" (1983), both of which he illustrated.\n\nEditions:\n\nRelated volumes in the series:\n\nEric Reeve, writing in \"Genetical Research\", describes the volume as, \"a very curious little book,\" that's purpose is to \"introduce non-scientists to the subtleties, excitements and threats of modern genetics,\" which would not surprise him, \"if it became a cult book in a minor way.\"\n\n\"[The] small amount of much-fragmented text by Steve Jones,\" squeezed, according to Reeve, \"into the little areas on most pages,\" \"tend[s] to lack continuity and consist mainly of small nuggets of genetic knowledge which will give the reader a very simplistic view of the subject,\" though he acknowledges, \"a few impressive sentences may stick in [the reader's] mind for use at parties.\"\n\n\"[T]he obtrusive drawings of Van Loon,\" Reeve contends, while \"clever, often witty,\" seem intended to, \"get in as many puns and jokes as possible,\" and \"are really not designed,\" \"to fill in the gaps in the reader's education,\" meaning that they, \"make very little contribution to the reader's knowledge, and will in many cases mislead or confuse him.\"\n\n\"[T]his book is an important missed opportunity,\" as, Reeve concludes, \"Steve Jones had an opportunity to produce an elementary book which would fire the enquiring readers to further efforts in self education instead of letting them only admire the clever drawings and laugh at the jokes.\" \n\nBorin van Loon, the volume's illustrator, has responded to Reeve's criticism by stating that, \"We're not convinced that [Reeve] quite 'gets' the idea of documentary comic books.\"\n\nVan Loon's illustrations from this book provided the inspiration for his Health Matters Gallery mural at the Science Museum, London, which was opened on 9 June 1994 by Professor James Watson, and were featured in the special exhibition, \"Representations of DNA\", at the Whipple Museum of the History of Science in Cambridge in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "34896605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34896605", "title": "Gilberto Hernández Ortega", "text": "Gilberto Hernández Ortega\n\nGilberto Hernández Ortega (21 December 1923 – 23 October 1979) was an artist from the Dominican Republic. He is considered a leading painter of his generation.\n\nHe was born in Baní, Peravia Province, in 1923 but was raised in Santo Domingo. Ortega first studied art under Celeste Woss y Gil at her private academy. Undecided about his career, he studied engineering for more than two years before committing to pursuing painting. He enrolled in the National School of Fine Arts, where he studied under Woss y Gil once again, as well as Josep Gausachs and George Hausdorf. Ortega was particularly influenced by Gausachs, maintaining a close relationship with the older artist until Gausachs's death in 1959. In addition to Gausachs, he worked closely with Jaime Colson and Clara Ledesma. Other sources of inspiration included Cuban artists Wifredo Lam and Mario Carreño Morales.\n\nIn 1946, Ortega had his first solo exhibition, exhibiting 63 paintings and drawings. He also exhibited abroad, with his first international solo exhibition being held in Caracas, Venezuela, in 1951. Other international shows included exhibitions in the United States, Spain, Argentina, Brazil, Israel and Taiwan. In addition, he was awarded prizes in national Biennial art events in 1952, 1958 and 1974.\n\nHe also taught art for many years. Ortega became a professor at the National School of Fine Arts in 1946 and was named vice director in 1954. In 1966, he opened a private art school in Santo Domingo. During his many years of teaching, Ortega had a significant influence on major Dominican artists, including Ada Balcácer, Iván Tovar, Ramón Oviedo and Elsa Núñez.\n\nWhile primarily a Surrealist, he also experimented with Expressionism and Abstraction. Most of Ortega's paintings are figurative, depicting distorted human forms. Although dark colors such as blues, violets, grays, greens, browns and black predominate, his palette is often enlivened with vibrant yellows, oranges and reds.\n\nOrtega died in Santo Domingo in 1979. The same year that Hurricane David hit the Dominican Republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "56712616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56712616", "title": "HousingAnywhere", "text": "HousingAnywhere\n\nHousingAnywhere.com is an international online accommodation platform specializing in accommodation for students. The start-up founded in 2009 has its headquarters in Rotterdam.\n\nThe student initiative was founded in 2009. The organization was developed from a small student project by Niels van Deuren when he was studying a degree in International Business Administration at the Rotterdam School of Management. His studies included a semester abroad at the National University of Singapore, through which he became aware of a problem and a gap in the student housing market. Van Deuren noted the difficulty in finding accommodation in Singapore, and also in subletting his room in Rotterdam.\n\nThe first international market entries took place in 2011 in Germany, Spain, France and Denmark. HousingAnywhere started on a small scale looking for collaborations with Dutch universities, through which the universities would promote the platform to their students. Housing Anywhere has been operating outside Europe since 2015 and has partnerships with universities in Brazil, Mexico, and the US.\n\nIn 2014 HousingAnywhere took over the Danish competitor, Casa Swap. In the same year, Djordy Seelmann became one of the main shareholders of HousingAnywhere and Head of Development.\n\nIn 2018 Djordy Seelmann, one of the main shareholders and Head of Development of HousingAnywhere became CEO.\n\nThe business model of HousingAnywhere is based on the sharing economy. Students who go abroad and leave an empty room in the city of their university can post their room on the platform, and students looking for a site can rent these rooms. In addition, by having partnerships with universities around the world the company is partly funded by membership fees from participating universities. The platform is free for students when they book their accommodation but HousingAnywhere charges a reservation fee for using its secure reservation system. This backup system includes a guarantee of no loss of money, as a solution for dealing with scams that may be on the platform.\n\nIn 2016 HousingAnywhere raised €5m in Series A funding round, The funding comes from Netherlands-based venture capital firm henQ, which has also invested in Housing Anywhere previously, and from Real Web, which operates Immobiliare.it, a real estate website in Italy and Poland.\n\n"}
{"id": "17904966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17904966", "title": "ITT International Fellowship Program", "text": "ITT International Fellowship Program\n\nThe ITT International Fellowship Program was a program of grants promoting international educational student exchanges, similar to the Fulbright Program, sponsored by the International Telephone & Telegraph Corporation. The program was administered by the Institute of International Education from 1973 until the mid-1980s.\n\nBetween 1973 and 1982, 498 students received ITT fellowships: 244 American students who went abroad for a year of study, and 254 non-US students who came to the US, usually to pursue a master's degree. Graduate students were also awarded this fellowship from 1983-1986. During this time, the fellowship was administered in conjunction with the Fulbright Program. It was considered especially prestigious at the time, because it provided students with more funding than the Fulbright Program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28434630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28434630", "title": "Integrity management", "text": "Integrity management\n\nIntegrity management consulting is an emerging sector of consultancy that advises individuals and corporations on how to apply the highest ethical standards to every aspect of their business. Integrity within a corporate set up is a holistic approach that makes prudent and ethical decisions not only relating to finance but other areas as well, which include operations, marketing, human resources as well as manufacturing by adhering to the highest standards of product quality, open and clear communication and transparency in all operations as well as relationships. At the core of integrity management is the belief that companies have a strong interest, as well as a responsibility, to act with integrity at all times. This field arose in response to \n\n(a) the increased perception that companies are more likely to succeed when they act with integrity and \n\n(b) increased awareness by company directors of the need to seek expert advice to help them align and incorporate high ethical standards with business strategy and integrate them across all operational functions.\n\nIn recent years, the general public have become both better informed and more concerned about business ethics at home and in developing countries. As a result governments have been called on to legislate, and business leaders to innovate, to ensure that high ethical standards are put at the heart of business and industry. There have been numerous regulations and ethical compliance measures to monitor financial performance of the organization. To complement these regulations and to present a fully dimensional ethical view of the organization from within, companies adopt different models such as Six Sigma, the Balanced Scorecard and the Triple Bottom Line.\n\nThe field of integrity management consulting aims to address:\n\n\nMedia attention given to ethical lapses means that companies are increasingly being held responsible for unethical behavior including corruption, labor issues and the poor working conditions in their own operations, in those of their subsidiaries, as well as for the actions of subcontractors acting on their behalf. An early example of the demand for responsibility starting to take hold was in the early 1990's when the reputation of a major footwear corporation was severely damaged, the brand devalued, and the company subjected to consumer boycotts after the discovery of the supplier’s poor labor standards. Child labor watchdogs found children as young as 10 working for Nike making shoes, clothing and footballs in Pakistan and Cambodia.\n\nAppalling workplace conditions have existed for centuries. However, the media has now made ethical transgressions readily public. In fact, according to a briefing by the Institute of Business Ethics, in 2009 there were 25 media stories on corporate ethical lapses in the extractive industries alone. Reported issues for this sector included environmental matters and allegations of human rights abuses in emerging markets, as well as accusations that oil companies were dumping toxic material in West Africa. The briefing also highlighted the amount of negative media attention given to the wider retail sector in 2009. Numerous stories exposed unethical practices, such as exploiting sweatshop labor, and accused some retailers of posing a danger to indigenous communities in Africa.\n\nThe impact of such negative exposure can include:\n\nAccording to Transparency International (TI), which investigates business corruption across the globe, ` and corruption were partly to blame for the recent global economic crisis of 2007-2008. The conditions cited included: serious lapses in corporate due diligence, governance and integrity; poor transparency and accountability; and, inadequate corporate integrity systems. The worldwide recession has furthered the public’s demand for businesses to behave responsibly.\n\nStricter legal frameworks have made it easier to prosecute transgressors and new international initiatives are helping countries to work in collaboration to deter poor business ethics.\n\nThe OECD Anti-Bribery Convention (officially OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions) is a convention of the OECD, ratified by 41 countries and aimed at reducing corruption in developing countries by encouraging sanctions against bribery in international business transactions carried out by companies based in member countries. Countries that have signed the Convention are required to put in place legislation that criminalizes the act of bribing a foreign public official. Much of the legislation passed by member countries has international reach.\n\nOne such example is the Bribery Act 2010 which was enacted into law on 8 April and defines three discrete criminal offences: offering or paying a bribe; requesting or receiving a bribe; bribing a foreign public official. (A specific offence required to comply with the OECD Convention mentioned above); and a new corporate offence of failing to prevent bribery being undertaken on its behalf. The Act applies to UK companies, UK partnerships, UK citizens and individuals ordinarily resident in the UK, regardless of where the relevant act occurs. They also apply to non-UK nationals, companies, and partnerships if an act or omission forming part of the offence takes place within the UK.\n\nThe Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977(FCPA)(15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1, et seq.) is a United States federal law with international reach which also targets unethical behavior. The Act is known primarily for two of its main provisions: one that addresses accounting transparency requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934(SEC); and, another concerning bribery of foreign officials. The FCPA applies to individuals and businesses with securities registered in the United States or a principal place of business in the United States. While this Act has been in existence for quite some time, the SEC and the DOJ have recently increased their enforcement efforts.\n\nA well-known example of a company prosecuted under the FCPA is German car maker, Daimler, which agreed to pay US $185 million in fines to the US government over alleged bribes paid to secure contracts abroad. BAE Systems PLC, a UK-based defense contractor also agreed to pay a US $400 million fine in FCPA related enforcement action.There are numerous other examples.In existence for around 40 years now, the FCPA is a very powerful tool in the hands of US DOJ and SEC which they use as a weapon of recovery of billions of dollars from foreign corporations worldwide over which US authorities have little jurisdiction.\n\nMost recently, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (also known as the Financial Reform Act) signed into U.S. law by President Barack Obama on July 21, 2010 contains a clause that specifically requires companies with products containing cassiterite (tin ore), columbite-tantalite (coltan), wolframite, and gold to disclose to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) whether the minerals are sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. Companies will have to detail the measures they have taken to avoid sourcing the minerals from Congolese armed groups, which are guilty of massacres and other atrocities. The bill also requires that all information disclosed be independently audited.\n\nThis legislation underpins some of the reasons businesses are taking integrity seriously and enlisting integrity management consultancies. Many businesses leaders have realized that early adopters of strong corporate ethics will thrive, as did those quick to embrace the environmental agenda in recent years. Consumers and shareholders are increasingly ready to recognize the value of corporate responsibility in international business. Increasingly, responsibility and sustainable value are intertwined.\n\nIn response, the field of integrity management has been born to help clients conduct business, even in the most challenging of markets, without compromising their ethics. With the help of expert advice, companies can go beyond abiding by the law to taking a voluntary, proactive approach to ensuring a company’s activities promote behaving responsibly, with fairness, sustainability, and cultural sensitivity in the communities in which they operate. It is very different in this respect from the more reactive field of risk management, although some risk management companies have attempted to embrace ethical risk as an area of specialism. Many risk management consultancies are adjuncts to private security companies. Therefore, some would-be clients are not convinced that they are best-placed to assist in the area of integrity and ethical management, because their parent companies face reputational challenges themselves.\n\nSpecialist integrity management consultancy helps business leaders not only to avoid business practices that represent risk to an industry or economy, but also helps to bring such practices under scrutiny so that they can be brought to a quick end.\n\nThe practice of integrity management consultancy combines numerous disciplines including established Knowledge Acquisition Methodologies, Public Relations Practices, Business Risk Management techniques, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Compliance functions, Insider Threat detection and Financial expertise to help clients make responsible and ethical business decisions.\n\nIntegrity management consultancies offer services such as: Identifying potential reputational and ethical threats for clients, and developing practical recommendations to mitigate these threats; making recommendations for, and carrying out due diligence on, local professional service suppliers; providing advice on accessing a local pool of talent, and addressing cultural considerations for building an effective local workforce; conducting detailed investigations into proposed local partners and key employees; preparing community needs reviews for better targeting of CSR programmes; and, administering anti-and counter-corruption training. Many also offer general ethics audits so that companies can obtain independent verification to attest to the high standard of their corporate ethics. Of course, this is not an exhaustive list as each consultancy offers different services.\n\n"}
{"id": "28229178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28229178", "title": "Irina Kolpakova", "text": "Irina Kolpakova\n\nIrina Alexandrovna Kolpakova () (born in Leningrad on 22 May 1933) is a Russian ballerina.\n\nFor many years, she was the prima ballerina of the Kirov State Academic Theatre of Opera and Ballet (now the Mariinsky Theater) in St. Petersburg. From 1974 to 1979 she served as a deputy of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR.\n\nIn the 1990s she worked for several seasons as choreographer and coach at the American Ballet Theatre in New York City. She is currently a professor of classical dance at the Vaganova Academy of Russian Ballet in St. Petersburg and a ballet coach at American Ballet Theatre.\n\nKolpakova was made a People's Artist of USSR in 1965 and a Hero of Socialist Labor in 1983. She was awarded the Order of Lenin in 1983 and was awarded a pension by presidential decree in 1996 for outstanding contribution to the development of national art.\n\nShe is married to the noted ballet dancer Vladilen Semenov, also a People's Artist of USSR. They live in the famous Tolstoy House building in St. Petersburg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30327176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30327176", "title": "Is the School House the Proper Place to Teach Raw Sex?", "text": "Is the School House the Proper Place to Teach Raw Sex?\n\nIs the School House the Proper Place to Teach Raw Sex? is a pamphlet written in 1968 by Gordon V. Drake and published by Billy James Hargis's Christian Crusade. It was a key document in the conservative fight against sex education in public schools, a cultural issue that contributed to the development of the New Right.\n\nThe 40-page document, described by \"Time\" magazine as, \"an angry little pamphlet,\" was originally distributed as part of a direct-mail fundraising campaign for the Christian Crusade, so that the organization could lobby against sex education in schools. It became a source of unfounded anecdotes about the supposed horrors of sex education for groups such as Mothers Organized for Moral Stability.\n\n\"School House\" targeted the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States (SIECUS), and in particular its director Dr. Mary Calderone. It described her as the \"SIECUS Sexpot\", and said that the group sought to \"toss[...] God aside\" and \"to teach American youth a new sexual morality independent of church and state.\" Besides arguing that sex education undermined Christian morality and promoted promiscuity, the document said it is part of a \"giant Communist conspiracy.\" It said, \"[If] the new morality is affirmed, our children will become easy targets for Marxism and other amoral, nihilistic philosophies—as well as V.D.!\" The pamphlet also identified the National Education Association as an enemy.\n\nThe pamphlet was the most widely circulated attack on sex education in the 1960s. Drake estimated that it sold over 90,000 copies in the three months after it was published, while Hargis claimed one million overall. A more conservative estimate is 250,000 copies.\n"}
{"id": "23642545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23642545", "title": "Jane Weinberger", "text": "Jane Weinberger\n\nRebecca Jane Weinberger (March 29, 1918 – July 12, 2009) was an American author, publisher and wife of Caspar Weinberger, the 15th United States Secretary of Defense. She wrote over a dozen books during her career, many written for children and young adults.\n\nBorn as Rebecca Jane Dalton on March 29, 1918, in Milford, Maine, she attended the University of Maine and the Somerville Hospital School of Nursing in Somerville, Massachusetts.\n\nDalton, who became a nursing instructor following her completion of school, signed with the United States government to help in times of national emergency. She was called to duty at the beginning of World War II and became a U.S. Army nurse. She met her future husband, a U.S. Army second lieutenant Caspar Weinberger, while the two were on the same troop transport ship to Australia during the summer of 1942. She actually outranked Weinberger by a few weeks at the time.\n\nThe couple married just three weeks later, once the ship disembarked in Australia. The wedding took place in Sydney, Australia, in 1942. However, they did not live together until the end of World War II. They moved to San Francisco, Caspar Weinberger's hometown, after the war.\n\nCaspar Weinberger initially worked for a San Francisco law firm. However, it was his wife who persuaded her husband to run for political office and worked as his first campaign manager. He was elected to the California State Assembly in 1952, where he represented a San Francisco area constituency for the next six years. She remained actively engaged in his political campaigns.\n\nWeinberger's career continued to rise during the Nixon and Reagan administrations. Jane Weinberger moved to Washington D.C. at the start of the Nixon presidency, when her husband was appointed as head of the Federal Trade Commission. He later became the director of the Office of Management and Budget under Nixon, and as Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare under both Nixon and President Gerald Ford. Caspar Weinberger later became the Secretary of Defense under Ronald Reagan for most of his two terms in office. He resigned as Defense Secretary in 1987 when Jane was diagnosed with several serious medical conditions, including cancer, which she survived.\n\nJane Weinberger first began writing and publishing during Reagan's first term, while her husband, Caspar Weinberger, was Defense Secretary. Her foray into publishing began as the result of one of the Reagan administration's budget cuts. President Reagan had eliminated funding for the Future Scientists Fund, which would team students with scientists at the Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor, Maine, for the summer. Weinberger was a key supporter of the program.\n\nWeinberger authored a children's book, \"Vim\", about a lab mouse, in order to raise money for the Future Scientists Fund. She donated all proceeds from the sales of \"Vim\" to the FSF. She collaborated with her husband on another children's book, \"Kiltie\", about the Weinbergers' family dog, Kiltie. Jane wrote the story, while Caspar took the photographs which appear in the book. Caspar also helped to pack, sell and deliver some of his wife's books during the Reagan years. Jane Weinberger acknowledged her husband's contributions in the author's notes for a 1986 book about charitable fundraising, \"Please Buy My Violets\".\n\nJane Weinberger founded the publishing company Windswept House Publishers in 1984. The publishing house was named for the Weinberger family home located in Somesville, Maine on Mount Desert Island. Weinberger ran the company from her home. Windswept House initially published children's books written by Weinberger, but she expanded its catalogue to include children's publications written by other authors, as well as books for adults. The company has published over 120 books, many aimed at young people, since its creation. \n\nIn 1991, Weinberger released \"As Ever: A Selection of Letters from the Voluminous Correspondence of Jane Weinberger, 1970-1990\", a compilation of letters which she had written to her friends and family. The letters offered an insight into Weinberger's views of top political figures. She called Nancy Reagan \"irritable and snappish\", referred to former Soviet Ambassador to the U.S. Anatoly Dobrynin as \"a wily old bastard but amusing\" and stated that former Vice President Spiro Agnew \"makes me sick\".\n\nWeinberger was also involved in a number of other charitable causes. She served as the chairwoman of the Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington D.C. from 1981-86. Weinberger held seats on the boards of directors of both Amherst College and the Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor, Maine.\n\nWeinberger and her husband co-founded a scholarship for students at Mount Desert Island High School pursuing careers in vocational programs. She authored her last book, \"Experience the Journey\", in 2003. Caspar Weinberger died in 2006, aged 88.\n\nJane Weinberger had been in poor health before suffering a stroke in July 2009. She died at a nursing care facility in Bar Harbor, Maine, on July 12, 2009, aged 91. Her ashes were scattered in the gardens of her home in Somesville, Maine. She was survived by her two children, daughter Arlin Weinberger, and son, Caspar Weinberger, Jr.; three grandchildren, five great-grandchildren, and a sister.\n\n"}
{"id": "36908861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36908861", "title": "Jesuit Classical Gymnasium in Osijek", "text": "Jesuit Classical Gymnasium in Osijek\n\nJesuit Classical Gymnasium with right of public () is a secondary school located in Tvrđa, the historic core of Osijek, Croatia. The school was founded by the Croatian Province of the Society of Jesus in 1998.\n\nThe school was established by Croatian Jesuits on 10 February 1998. On 25 June 1998 the school received permission from the Croatian Ministry of Science, Education, and Sports to open as a classical, 4-year gymnasium. The first school year was 1998/99, with 23 students enrolled. In the next two years there were two classes, as provided for in the school enrollment plan with the approval of the Ministry. Teaching took place in several locations like the Jesuit residence in Osijek and in a space at Gymnasium II. In 2000 the school moved into the new building.\n\nIKG is implementing the Ministry's program for a classical, four-year gymnasium . This includes learning the Latin and Greek language and culture throughout the four years and studying the ancient literature.\n\nThe Jesuit ideal is reflected in the school motto: \"Semper magis\" (hr. \"Always More\" ). The school aims to develop broadminded \"men and women for others\" who are also firm in their faith and respectful of people with other beliefs, open to dialogue.\n\nThe gymnasium building dates back to 1720. In January 2000 the City of Osijek ceded it to the school. Annexes were added and the first two floors saw renovations. In 2005 the school received a building permit to use the attic and to construct an elevator.\n"}
{"id": "29450108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29450108", "title": "Kristiania University College", "text": "Kristiania University College\n\nCampus Kristiania is the name of an education center including Oslo School of Management, Norwegian School of Creative Studies, Oslo School of Marketing and the NKS online learning. The Education center is owned by the Ernst G. Mortensen foundation and is among one of the largest contributors in the private education market in Norway. In addition to Oslo, Campus Kristiania offers education in Trondheim, Bergen, Stavanger, Kristiansand, Tønsberg and Drammen and has approximately 70000 students. Campus Kristiania in Oslo has around 2000 students.\n\nThe school's history dates back to 1914 when Ernst G. Mortensen established the first correspondence school. The school received its current name in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "27466228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27466228", "title": "Laura Linnea Jensen", "text": "Laura Linnea Jensen\n\nLaura Linnea Jensen (born November 16, 1948 in Tacoma, Washington) is an American poet.\n\nShe graduated from the University of Washington in Seattle, where she studied with David Wagoner, Mark Strand, and Galway Kinnell, and from the Iowa Writers' Workshop with an MFA in 1974, where she studied with Norman Dubie, Donald Justice, and Marvin Bell. She became friends with Tess Gallagher.\n\nHer work appeared in \"Ploughshares\".\nShe read at Burning Word 2005.\nShe lives near Wright Park, Tacoma, Washington.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26340145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26340145", "title": "Liberties College", "text": "Liberties College\n\nLiberties College is an educational institution in Bull Alley Street, County Dublin, Republic of Ireland. Liberties College offers Further Education courses, including Post Leaving Certificates.\n\nThe courses offered include Counselling, Health Care, Montessori Education, Social Studies, Tourism, and Information Technology.\n\nAt Liberties College many students are availing of Back to Education and Training Support, via the BEA and VTOS schemes.\n\nLiberties College is under supervision of the CDETB/City of Dublin Education and Training Board umbrella body.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42083152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42083152", "title": "List of archives in Iceland", "text": "List of archives in Iceland\n\nThis is list of archives in Iceland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52697365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52697365", "title": "Manfred Günther", "text": "Manfred Günther\n\nManfred Günther (born in Bochum, 1948), is a German educational psychologist, specialised in young people, the prevention of violence and social therapy methods; today he works as an author and coach. He lives in Berlin, Germany and Los Llanos, La Palma, Spain. \nAt the beginning of his career, he discovered the psychological works of Frederick Kanfer and Heinz Heckhausen in Bochum and of Klaus Holzkamp and Eva Jaeggi in Berlin. He graduated in 1974. Günther is also an Economics-and-Work teacher, school psychologist, as well as being a dovish follower of cognitive behavioural therapy. Later, from 1984-1986 he studied Health Sciences at famed Professor Dieter Kleiber’s institute.\n\nIn 1977, Günther became the director of a private residential treatment centre (therapeutic boarding school). In 1979, he discovered Sam Ferrainola's Camp, namely the Glen Mills Schools close to Philadelphia, discussed this with Howard W. Polsky in New York City. and got internships 1980 in Boston's famous counseling-team \"Bridge Over Troubled Waters\" and in the very special \"Robert White School\". While travelling he inspected other psychosocial projects in countries like Denmark, Ukraine (USSR), Canada, Italy (and after 1990 in Hungary). After that, feeling inspired, Manfred founded and took charge of a consultancy for young people called \"JOKER\" in West Berlin's City in 1982, a position he held for 17 years. Later (2003–2006) he moved to the Bonn-institution \"German Crime Prevention Forum (DFK)\" to investigate and write surveys on \"Prevention of violence for children in schools\" after the first extreme german school shooting in Erfurt. From 2007-2013 he has been a consultant and in the emergency psychological service at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sciences in Berlin (Federal State).\n\nTo discuss his ideas, Günther was being interviewed on radio- and TV channels such as SFB 2, SFB 3, Hallo, N 24 and ZDF-Moma. The Ministry of Education, School, Youth and Family Brandenburg commissioned Manfred Günther with the curriculum development \"Social Work (Youth)\"\n\nFor 40 years, Günther has worked beside his main occupations in four different universities of Berlin and from 2011-2015 in Magdeburg. His main subject is \"Rights of young people\".\n\nToday: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4787442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4787442", "title": "Milton Katselas", "text": "Milton Katselas\n\nMilton George Katselas (December 22, 1933 – October 24, 2008) was an American director and producer of stage and film, as well as a Hollywood acting instructor and coach who trained under Elia Kazan and Lee Strasberg at the acclaimed \"Actors Studio\" in New York City. In 1978 he acquired the \"Beverly Hills Playhouse\", where he taught a master class for many years.\n\nKatselas was a Scientologist and some former students have alleged that his acting classes were used as recruitment for the Church of Scientology, while others have stated Katselas never mentioned or spoke about Scientology during classes.\n\nKatselas was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to Greek immigrant parents, who owned a small restaurant outside the gates of a Westinghouse Electric plant. When Milton was 14 years old, his father went into the movie theater business and ran a local theater company of Greek actors. Milton Katsalas later adjusted his surname to Katselas.\n\nAfter high school, he set off for Pittsburgh's Carnegie Tech (now Carnegie Mellon) to study theater. On a visit to New York, he sneaked in to watch Lee Strasberg's acting class where he also saw renowned director Elia Kazan on the street and chased him down. \"I talked to him in Greek, and he talked with me\"... [H]e told me, `When you finish college, come see me.'\", Katselas recalled. Following graduation in 1954, he began studying with Strasberg and serving as an apprentice to Kazan.\n\nAfter working with several other big-name directors, including Joshua Logan, Joseph Anthony, and Sanford Meisner, Katselas struck out on his own, beginning with the original 1960 Off-Broadway production of Edward Albee's \"The Zoo Story\". This was followed by another critical success the following year, Michael Shurtleff's \"Call Me By My Rightful Name\". He was nominated for a Tony Award for the Broadway production of Leonard Gershe's \"Butterflies Are Free\" in 1969, and also directed the 1972 movie version starring Goldie Hawn, Edward Albert, and Eileen Heckart, who won an Academy Award for her role.\n\nIn 1973 he reunited with Gershe and Albert for the film version of \"40 Carats\". His other credits include the Broadway shows \"Camino Real\" and \"The Rose Tattoo\", local productions of \"The Seagull\", \"Romeo and Juliet\", and \"Streamers\" - all of which won him \"L.A. Drama Critics Circle\" awards for best direction.\n\nIn 1983, Katselas directed a revival of Noël Coward's \"Private Lives\", the only Broadway stage production in which Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton co-starred together. However, after the show was panned in its Boston tryout, Taylor, who was a producer, fired Katselas, yet he retained his directing credit for the Broadway run. He also directed the screen adaptation of Mark Medoff's \"When You Comin' Back, Red Ryder?\"\n\nIn 1978 Kateslas founded an acting school in Los Angeles called the Beverly Hills Playhouse, where he for 30 years gave acting classes.\n\nHe had a wide range of students, including Gene Hackman, Jenna Elfman, George Clooney, Alec Baldwin, Giovanni Ribisi, Tom Selleck, Michelle Pfeiffer, Ted Danson, Tony Danza, Jeffrey Tambor, Tyne Daly, and Doris Roberts. Some students reportedly felt alienated by the unspoken pressure to join the Church of Scientology, however. While Katselas was highly regarded as a teacher, his classes remained controversial.\n\nIn his later years, Katselas became disaffected with Scientology. He eventually had a break with the organisation, when a Scientologist named Grant Cardone sent an e-mail accusing Katselas of improper sexual conduct with his students. Following the incident, a number of Scientologist actors left the school.\n\nKatselas was active as a writer, painter and acting teacher for over twenty years. He wrote a book titled \"Dreams Into Action\" and appeared on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" discussing the book's success. He also wrote \"Acting Class: Take a Seat\" which is the acting class book of the Beverly Hills Playhouse.\n\nKatselas was a long-time Scientologist, having been introduced to the religion in 1965, and had attained the Scientology state of Operating Thetan. While his relationship with the Church of Scientology broke down in his later years, he remained dedicated to L. Ron Hubbard to his death.\n\nKatselas died of heart failure on October 24, 2008, aged 74, at the Los Angeles hospital Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.\n\nKatselas was portrayed by actor James Franco in the Sal Mineo biopic, \"Sal\", that Franco also directed.\n\n"}
{"id": "37746840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37746840", "title": "Nazareth Evangelical College", "text": "Nazareth Evangelical College\n\nNazareth Evangelical College is an evangelical Bible college located in Nazareth, Israel. The language of instruction is Arabic and it primarily serves Israel's Palestinian-Israeli population. The college offers graduate and undergraduate degrees and provides a number of other education services to the local community.\n\nNazareth Evangelical College was created in 2014 as a result of a merger of two other Bible colleges: \"Galilee Bible College\" (GBC) and \"Nazareth Evangelical Theological Seminary\" (NETS).\n\n\"Nazareth Evangelical Theological Seminary\" (NETS) was founded in 2007 by the Scottish missionary-scholar J. Bryson Arthur and his wife May, originally with the name \"The Nazareth Center for Christian Studies\". Some of his co-workers in helping set up the seminary were Scott Bridger, Brent Neely, Azar Ajaj, Phil Hill, and Duane Alexander Miller. The primary language of instruction was English, with the following courses being offered: a Bachelor of Divinity (BD), a Master of Theology (MTh), and a Master of Arts in Christian ministry. A locally accredited Bachelor of Theology (BTh) degree was also offered, with the language of instruction being Arabic.\n\n\"Galilee Bible College\" was founded as an Israeli branch of the West Bank Bible college \"Bethlehem Bible College\". All courses were taught in Arabic.\n\nWith the departure of NETS's primarily Western staff in 2013, NETS was handed over to entirely Arab leadership, turned into a purely Arab-language institution, and was merged with GBC to become Nazareth Evangelical College, Israel's only theological seminary dedicated to serving the country's Arab evangelical minority in their own language. The merger took place in partnership with the \"Association of Baptist Churches in Israel\" (ABCI), \"Bethlehem Bible College\" (BBC), and the \"Convention of Evangelical Churches in Israel\" (now called the \"Synod of Evangelical Churches in Israel\").\n\nAll current faculty are Arabs.\n\n\"Nazareth Evangelical College\" offers a BA in Biblical Studies and an MA in Leadership & Christian Ministry. Both degrees receive their accreditation through \"Bethlehem Bible College\", which is accredited by the \"Middle East Association for Theological Education\" (MEATE), \"Asia Theological Association\" (ATA) and the Palestinian Authority.\n\nNEC has also started an International Study Program, a series of courses and excursions designed to help develop relationships with international partners and share something about the unique Palestinian-Israeli evangelical context to visitors interested in deepening their understanding of the region. Currently on offer are a series of lectures on different facets of the local context and a combination of these lectures with a tour.\n\nIn addition to an extensive English language theological library, NEC now hosts the largest Arabic-language theological library in the country.\n\nNEC subscribes to an evangelical statement of faith.\n\nUnder its current academic dean Yohanna Katanacho, NEC has adopted a two-fold focus to theological education and ministry: \"Christ & Culture\" and \"Christ & Church\".\n\nAs stated on the college website, \"Nazareth Evangelical College trains leaders, men and women, to follow Christ faithfully and to be equipped and qualified for serving the church in the Holy Land enabling her to have a powerful influence on society according to God’s purposes.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "78958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78958", "title": "Paul Ehrenfest", "text": "Paul Ehrenfest\n\nPaul Ehrenfest (18 January 1880 – 25 September 1933) was an Austrian and Dutch theoretical physicist, who made major contributions to the field of statistical mechanics and its relations with quantum mechanics, including the theory of phase transition and the Ehrenfest theorem.\n\nPaul Ehrenfest was born and grew up in Vienna in a Jewish family from Loštice in Moravia. His parents, Sigmund Ehrenfest and Johanna Jellinek, ran a grocery store. Although the family was not overly religious, Paul studied Hebrew and the history of the Jewish people. Later he always emphasized his Jewish roots. Ehrenfest excelled in grade school but did not do well at the Akademisches Gymnasium, his best subject being mathematics. After transferring to the Franz Josef Gymnasium, his marks improved. In 1899 he passed the final exams.\n\nHe majored in chemistry at the Institute of technology, but took courses at the University of Vienna, in particular from Ludwig Boltzmann on his kinetic theory of thermodynamics. These lectures had a profound influence: they were instrumental in developing Ehrenfest's interest in theoretical physics, defined his main area of research for years to come, and provided an example of inspired teaching. At the time it was customary in the German-speaking world to study at more than one university and in 1901 Ehrenfest transferred to Göttingen, which until 1933 was an important centre for mathematics and theoretical physics. There he met his future wife Tatyana Afanasyeva, a young mathematician born in Kiev, then capital of the Kiev Governorate, Russian Empire, and educated in St Petersburg. In the spring of 1903 he met H.A. Lorentz during a short trip to Leiden. In the meantime he prepared a dissertation on \"Die Bewegung starrer Körper in Flüssigkeiten und die Mechanik von Hertz\" (The motion of rigid bodies in fluids and the mechanics of Hertz). He obtained his Ph.D. degree on 23 June 1904 in Vienna, where he stayed from 1904 to 1905.\n\nOn 21 December 1904 he married Russian mathematician Tatyana Alexeyevna Afanasyeva (1876–1964), who collaborated with him in his work. They had two daughters and two sons: Tatyana ('Tanja') (1905–1984), also became a mathematician; Galinka ('Galja') (1910–1979), became an author and illustrator of children's books; Paul, Jr. ('Pavlik') (1915–1939), who also became a physicist; and Vassily ('Wassik') (1918–1933).\n\nThe Ehrenfests returned to Göttingen in September 1906. They would not see Boltzmann again: on September 6 Boltzmann took his own life in Duino near Trieste. Ehrenfest published an extensive obituary in which Boltzmann's accomplishments are described. Felix Klein, dean of the Göttinger mathematicians and chief editor of the \"Enzyklopädie der mathematischen Wissenschaften\", had counted on Boltzmann for a review about statistical mechanics. Now he asked Ehrenfest to take on this task. Together with his wife, Ehrenfest worked on it for several years; the article was not published until 1911. It is a review of the work of Boltzmann and his school, and shows a style all of its own: a sharp logical analysis of the fundamental hypotheses, clear delineation of unsolved questions, and an explanation of general principles by cleverly chosen transparent examples.\n\nIn 1907 the couple moved to St Petersburg. Ehrenfest found good friends there, in particular A.F. Joffe, but felt scientifically isolated. Moreover, as an Austrian citizen and of Jewish origin, he had no prospect of a permanent position. Early in 1912 Ehrenfest set out on a tour of German-speaking universities in the hope of a position. He visited Berlin where he saw Max Planck, Leipzig where he saw his old friend Herglotz, Munich where he met Arnold Sommerfeld, then Zürich and Vienna. While in Prague he met Albert Einstein for the first time, and they remained close friends thereafter. Einstein recommended Ehrenfest to succeed him in his position in Prague, but that did not work out. This was due to the fact that Ehrenfest declared himself to be an atheist. Sommerfeld offered him a position in Munich, but Ehrenfest received a better offer; at the same time there was an unexpected turn of events. H. A. Lorentz resigned his position as professor at the University of Leiden, and on his advice Ehrenfest was appointed as his successor.\n\nIn October 1912 Ehrenfest arrived in Leiden, and on 4 December he gave his inaugural lecture \"Zur Krise der Lichtaether-Hypothese\" (About the crises of the light-ether hypothesis). He remained in Leiden for the rest of his career. In order to stimulate interaction and exchange among physics students he organized a discussion group and a study association called De Leidsche Flesch. He maintained close contact with prominent physicists within the country and abroad, and invited them to visit to Leiden and give a presentation in his lecture series. Ehrenfest was an outstanding debater, quick to point out weaknesses and summarize the essentials. \nIn his lectures he would focus on simple models and examples to illustrate and clarify the underlying assumptions. His classes were small, and he made an effort to get to know students who made use of the reading room. Though few of them were accepted as majors in Theoretical Physics, he had long discussions with them almost on a daily basis. According to Einstein: \n\"He was not merely the best teacher in our profession whom I have ever known; he was also passionately preoccupied with the development and destiny of men, especially his students. To understand others, to gain their friendship and trust, to aid anyone embroiled in outer or inner struggles, to encourage youthful talent — all this was his real element, almost more than his immersion in scientific problems\".\n\nIf Ehrenfest felt that there was little more he could teach his students, he would send them to other centers in Europe for more training. He would also encourage them to accept positions abroad.\n\nAmong his students were Johannes Burgers, Hendrik Kramers, Dirk Coster, George Uhlenbeck and Samuel Goudsmit, who became famous for jointly proposing the concept of electron spin, Jan Tinbergen, Arend Rutgers, Hendrik Casimir, Gerhard Dieke, Dirk Struik, and Gerard Kuiper. His assistants included Yuri Krutkov, Viktor Trkal, Adriaan Fokker, Paul Epstein, and Gregory Breit. Other young foreign scientists who spent an extended period in his laboratory included Gunnar Nordström, Enrico Fermi, Igor Tamm, Oskar Klein, Robert Oppenheimer, Walter Elsasser, Ralph Kronig, Werner Heisenberg, Paul Dirac, and David Dennison.\n\nEhrenfest held ambivalent views on science, technological progress and also cultural and social issues.\n\nIn 1919 he became member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nFrom the correspondence with his close friends of May 1931 it appears that Ehrenfest suffered from severe depression. By August 1932, Einstein was so worried that he wrote to the Board of the University of Leiden, expressing deep concern and suggesting ways in which Ehrenfest's workload could be reduced.\n\nHaving made arrangements for the care of his other children, on 25 September 1933, in Amsterdam, Ehrenfest fatally shot his younger son Wassik, who had Down syndrome, then killed himself.\nMost of Ehrenfest's scientific papers deal with fundamentals, and seek to clarify single points. His publications are renowned for clarity, by solving paradoxes or by providing clearer descriptions, or are inspiring by posing melliferous questions. His approach to science is best illustrated by what he wrote to Robert Oppenheimer in the summer of 1928, after Oppenheimer invited himself for an extended stay in Leiden:\n\"If you intend to mount heavy mathematical artillery again during your coming year in Europe, I would ask you not only not to come to Leiden, but if possible not even to Holland, and just because I am really so fond of you and want to keep it that way. But if, on the contrary, you want to spend at least your first few months patiently, comfortably, and joyfully in discussions that keep coming back to the same few points, chatting about a few basic questions with me and our young people- and without thinking much about publishing (!!!)-why then I welcome you with open arms!! \". Characteristically, he did not like the abstraction of the new quantum theory of Heisenberg and Dirac.\n\nEhrenfest's most important contribution from 1912 up to 1933 is the theory of adiabatic invariants. It is a concept derived from classical mechanics that on the one hand can serve to refine certain methods of Bohr's model of the atom (although initially Ehrenfest did not accept Bohr's ideas) and on the other hand makes a link between atomic mechanics and statistical mechanics. He made major contributions to quantum physics, including the theory of phase transitions and the Ehrenfest theorem, which states that expectation values of a quantum system follow classical mechanics. His name is also given to the Ehrenfest paradox, an apparent paradox in relativity still discussed today, to the Ehrenfest model, and to Ehrenfest time, the time characterizing the departure of quantum dynamics for observables from classical dynamics.\n\nEhrenfest was also interested in developing mathematical theories in economics. This interest was stimulated by his notion that there should be an analogy between thermodynamics and economic processes. While this did not result in publications, he did encourage his graduate student Jan Tinbergen to follow up on this. Tinbergen's thesis was devoted to problems both from physics and economics, and he went on to become an economist and was awarded the first Bank of Sweden Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel in 1969.\n\nEhrenfest was particularly close to both Einstein and Bohr. After Niels Bohr's first visit to Leiden in 1919, for Kramers' thesis defense, he wrote to Ehrenfest:\n\n\"I am sitting and thinking of all what you have told me about so very many different things, and whatever I think of I feel that I have learned so much from you which will be of great importance for me; but, at the same time, I wish so much to express my feeling of happiness over your friendship and of thankfulness for the confidence and sympathy you have shown me, I find myself so utterly incapable of finding words for it\".\n\nOn his invitation Einstein accepted in 1920 an appointment as extraordinary professor at the University of Leiden. This arrangement allowed Einstein to visit Leiden for a few weeks every year. At these occasions Einstein would stay at Ehrenfest's home. In 1923 Einstein stayed there for six weeks, after German ultra-nationalists in Berlin had made threats against his life.\nOn the occasion of the 50th anniversary of Lorentz' doctorate (December 1925) Ehrenfest invited both Bohr and Einstein over to Leiden, in an attempt to reconcile their scientific differences about the emerging quantum theory. These discussions were continued at the 1927 Solvay Conference, where Ehrenfest much to his dismay had to side with Bohr's position in this great debate.\n\nThe evening colloquium in physics at Leiden University, initiated by Paul Ehrenfest in 1912, still continues under the name \"Colloquium Ehrenfestii\".\n\nThe Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information has announced the \"Paul Ehrenfest best paper award for quantum foundations\".\n\n"}
{"id": "26152101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26152101", "title": "Paul Giudicelli", "text": "Paul Giudicelli\n\nPaul Giudicelli Palmieri (1921–1965) was an abstract painter from the Dominican Republic.\n\nHe was born at the Ingenio Porvenir, in San Pedro de Macorís, Dominican Republic to Corsican immigrants. Giudicelli spent a few years of his early childhood in Europe, but returned to the Dominican Republic in the 1930s, living in Santo Domingo. In 1937, being aged just 16, Giudicelli married with a girl surnamed Vidal; they had 2 boys: Paul Giudicelli and Ángel Giudicelli. \nAlthough he showed a talent and enthusiasm for art in his youth, it was not until 1948, at the age of 28, that he began formal training at the National School of Fine Arts. He graduated from the school in 1951. In a second marriage he begat a girl: Frida.\n\nSoon after graduating, Giudicelli participated in the São Paulo Biennial and the National Biennial (Dominican Republic) in 1952. He held his first solo exhibition in 1953 at the National Gallery of Fine Arts, showing 70 works. Art critic Horia Tanasecu gave the exhibition a very favorable review, stating that the artist had \"extraordinary talent\" and brought \"new energy to the national art scene\". Tanasecu also noted the incredible variety of stylistic influences in the artist's work, including Cubism, Abstraction, Impressionism, Symbolism, Expressionism, Surrealism, Fauvism, Naturalism and Academicism.\n\nGiudicelli participated in group exhibitions in Barcelona (1956) and Switzerland (1957), as well as other National Biennials in the Dominican Republic. His second solo exhibition was held in 1957, and his third in 1959. The artist also began painting murals in 1959, receiving commissions for various public buildings.\n\nIn 1959, Giudicelli was offered a grant to study mural painting in France, but was denied a passport from the Trujillo dictator government. Giudicelli's son Pablo, an embassy employee in Costa Rica, had refused to follow an order from the dictator, creating negative effects for the entire family. As a result of the political scandal, in 1960 Giudicelli also lost the positions he had recently obtained as both professor and vice director of the National School of Fine Arts, but was reinstated in 1961 after the dictator's death.\nGiudicelli continued his successful painting career until he died of cancer, aged 43–44, in Santo Domingo.\n\n"}
{"id": "1575863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1575863", "title": "Penland School of Crafts", "text": "Penland School of Crafts\n\nThe Penland School of Crafts (\"Penland\") is an Arts and Crafts educational center located in the Blue Ridge Mountains in Spruce Pine, North Carolina, about 50 miles from Asheville.\n\nThe school was founded in the 1920s in the isolated mountain town of Penland, North Carolina. In 1923, Lucy Morgan (1889-1981), a teacher at the Appalachian School who had recently learned to weave at Berea College, created an association to teach the craft to local women provide a source of income that they could earn from their homes. The center, called Penland Weavers and Potters, provided instruction, looms, and materials. Local volunteers built a cabin and then a larger hall. In 1929, Penland was officially founded as the Penland School of Handicrafts after Edward F. Worst, a weaving expert and author of the \"Foot Power Loom Weaving,\" visited the school to provide instruction on weaving. Worst added classes in basketry and pottery.\n\nBill Brown, who took over in 1962 after Morgan, created a resident artist program and expanded the number of and length of the courses. There are 51 buildings on 400 acres. Penland buildings were designed primarily by North Carolinian architects, including Frank Harmond and Cannon Architects in Raleigh, North Carolina and Dixon Weinstein Architects in Chapel Hill.\n\nThe school campus was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2003 as the Penland School Historic District. The district encompasses 31 contributing buildings, 1 contributing site, and 3 contributing structures. The district is characterized by one and two-story frame farmhouses dating from the turn of the 20th century, associated agricultural outbuildings, and \nRustic Revival style log buildings. Notable buildings include the Colonial Revival style Lily Loom House and Pines; the Craft Cabin; Homer Hall; Ridgeway; and Beacon Church.\n\n, Penland offered Spring, Summer, and Fall workshops in craft disciplines, including weaving and dyeing, bead work, glassblowing, pottery, paper making, metalworking, and woodworking. It also offers fine arts subjects, such as printmaking, painting, and photography. Workshops are taught by visiting American and international artists and professors, a tradition that started with Worst and until he died in 1949. Academic degrees are not awarded by Penland, but students can receive college credit through Western Carolina University (WCU). There are about 1200 people who study at Penland each year.\n\nPenland holds an annual Community Day in early March, when the school's studios are open and visitors can work on a small project with the help of the artists.\n\nAn exhibition of works created at Penland was held at the Mint Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48418561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48418561", "title": "Polish student ID", "text": "Polish student ID\n\nThe Polish student ID () is the document certifying that the person is attending a higher school (e.g., university) in Poland.\n"}
{"id": "35512081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35512081", "title": "Public alternative school", "text": "Public alternative school\n\nA public alternative school is a state school that \"provides alternative learning experiences to the conventional school program and which is available by choice to every family in the community at no extra cost”\" They include:\n\n"}
{"id": "480388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=480388", "title": "Robert Coover", "text": "Robert Coover\n\nRobert Lowell Coover (born February 4, 1932) is an American novelist, short story writer, and T.B. Stowell Professor Emeritus in Literary Arts at Brown University. He is generally considered a writer of fabulation and metafiction.\n\nCoover was born in Charles City, Iowa. He attended Southern Illinois University Carbondale, received his B.A. in Slavic Studies from Indiana University in 1953, then served in the United States Navy. He received an M.A. in General Studies in the Humanities from the University of Chicago in 1965. In 1968, he signed the \"Writers and Editors War Tax Protest\" pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the Vietnam War. Coover has served as a teacher or writer in residence at many universities. He taught at Brown University from 1981 to 2012.\n\nCoover's wife is the noted needlepoint artist Pilar Sans Coover.\nThey have three children, including Sara Caldwell.\n\nCoover's first novel was \"The Origin of the Brunists\", in which the sole survivor of a mine disaster starts a religious cult. His second book, \"The Universal Baseball Association, Inc., J. Henry Waugh, Prop.\", deals with the role of the creator. The eponymous Waugh, a shy, lonely accountant, creates a baseball game in which rolls of the dice determine every play, and dreams up players to attach those results to.\n\nCoover's best-known work, \"The Public Burning\", deals with the case of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg in terms that have been called magic realism. Half of the book is devoted to the mythic hero Uncle Sam of tall tales, dealing with the equally fantastic Phantom, who represents international Communism. The alternate chapters portray the efforts of Richard Nixon to find what is really going on amidst the welter of narratives.\n\nA later novella, \"Whatever Happened to Gloomy Gus of the Chicago Bears\" offers an alternate Nixon, one who is devoted to football and sex with the same doggedness with which he pursued political success in this reality. The theme anthology \"A Night at the Movies\" includes the story \"You Must Remember This\", a piece about \"Casablanca\" that features an explicit description of what Rick and Ilsa did when the camera wasn't on them. \"Pinocchio in Venice\" returns to mythical themes.\nCoover is one of the founders of the Electronic Literature Organization. In 1987 he was the winner of the Rea Award for the Short Story.\n\nWilliam Faulkner, Brandeis University, American Academy of Arts and Letters, National Endowment of the Arts, Rea Lifetime Short Story, Rhode Island Governor's Arts, Pell, and Clifton Fadiman Awards, Rockefeller, Guggenheim, Lannan Foundation, and DAAD fellowships\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10921394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10921394", "title": "Robert Gaudino", "text": "Robert Gaudino\n\nRobert Lee Gaudino (1925–1974) was a professor of political science at Williams College from 1955 to 1974. He was \"arguably the greatest Williams College educator of the 20th century.\" Gaudino's dissertation at the University of Chicago focused on the issue of academic freedom. Gaudino was\nA popular teacher beloved by students for his engaging, personal enthusiasm that extended far beyond the confines of the classroom --- the oft repeated maxim goes, \"he did not have students but disciples\" --- he held very strict ideas about classroom decorum, addressing his students by their last names, insisting that they come to class on time and that they be prepared to be called upon at any time to enter into a Socratic-style dialogue related to the day's reading.\nHe served in the US Army Air Corps from 1943 to 1946. He wrote \"The Indian University\".\n\nGaudino argued that Williams should \"actively promote a range of experiences that have the creative potential to unsettle and disturb\" as part of a program of \"uncomfortable learning\" based on the \"unsettling experience.\"\n\nHe died in 1974 of a neurological disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "2602933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2602933", "title": "Robert Slavin", "text": "Robert Slavin\n\nRobert \"Bob\" Slavin is an American psychologist who studies educational and academic issues. His Success for All educational model has been influential in American academic reform since its inception in 1987. He has also influenced the research on cooperative learning, publishing numerous seminal reviews of literature (including meta-analyses and best evidence syntheses) on cooperative learning. \n\nBob Slavin is a 'Reedie', having earned his BA at Reed College in 1972. \n\nIn 1986, the Superintendent of Baltimore Schools approached Slavin for help with failing schools in impoverished, inner city neighborhoods. The model Slavin developed for Baltimore became research-driven Success for All, used in 1,300 schools in 47 states, as of May 2005, and rated one of the most effective reform models according to a meta-analysis of school improvement programs. However, most teachers participating in Success For All, even ones who strongly support the program, have been found to make substantial changes in implementation in contrast to the expectations of developers. Some teachers also reported that the program constrained their creativity and autonomy in their own classroom.\n\nHis work includes research on classroom cooperative learning techniques including his 1980 paper \"Cooperative Learning\".\n\nSlavin is a Program Director at the Center for Social Organization of Schools at Johns Hopkins University, and a Director at the Center for Research and Reform in Education (CRRE). He was also the founding director of the Institute for Effective Education at the University of York. \n\n"}
{"id": "5740806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5740806", "title": "Shiraz University of Technology", "text": "Shiraz University of Technology\n\nShiraz University of Technology (SUTECH) () is an accredited and well known university in IRAN, the second public university in the Fars Province in higher technological education, basic and applied research. In 2004, the Government offered technical assistance for establishing an institute of higher education in engineering in Shiraz.\n\nCurrently the University has about 1700 students, with 5 Bachelor's degree programs (B.S.), 31 Master's degree (M.S.), and 14 Ph.D. degree programs.\n\nShiraz University of Technology first was established in 1968 with its former name Electronics Industry College, which was one of the Shiraz University branches (Electronics Engineering College). \nAfter 2004, it was named \"Shiraz University of Technology\" as an independent public university which developed by some other fields such as Chemical, Material, Mechanical, etc.\n\nCurrently there is just one campus on Moddares Blvd., Shiraz, Iran. It was announced that a new campus is building in Shahrak Sadra, Shiraz, Iran.\n\nThe campus consists of all the university's building like departments buildings, library, restaurant, mosque, gym, publication, etc. There are 5 department buildings:\n\nThe following degrees are now offered in the university training students in bachelor's and master's degrees levels:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8309714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8309714", "title": "State's Evidence", "text": "State's Evidence\n\nState's Evidence is an independent film created in 2004 and released in 2006, directed by Benjamin Louis and starring Douglas Smith, Alexa Vega, Majandra Delfino, Kris Lemche, Cody McMains, and Drew Tyler Bell.\n\nScott declares his intention to kill himself and say goodbye to his friends and relatives and to shoot it at his camera. After coming to school he tells about his intentions to five best friends (Brian, Rick, Patrick, Trudi, Sandy), which are trying to reassure him. But then they all decide to kill themselves too and buy few cameras for everyone, aiming to upload complete video to the website. Through the movie comes the story of Patrick, Sandy and Trudi explaining the reasons of their decision. Once Patrick occasionally filmed a local bully Tyrone Johnson with his girl and was beaten by him for that. From this moment Patrick starts his own plan wishing to kill some students who irritate him before killing himself. \nOnce he films a video where he makes a list of such students and shows it to his friends, explaining it as a joke. But some friends don't believe him and begin suspecting him. \n\nSandy (Alexa Vega) and Scott slowly fall in love with each other, Trudi and Brian become close friends, while Patrick is planning a real punishment. At night before common suicide Patrick shows a tape where he strangles an innocent little girl in a supermarket. The girls punish him calling him a murderer. Though the guys regret, they decide not to tell anyone about that case except of saving it on a camera, which they call \"State's Evidence\". They all arrange to meet at school at one time in same place and go to sleep.\n\nHowever Patrick and Rick get up earlier and go to school. In the hall Patrick charges the gun telling Rick to follow him and show everything he does. When he comes around the corner he starts shooting some students (among them are \"a greedy fatman\" and \"religious girl\" whom he was planning to kill in one scene). Then he looks for Tyrone and his friends.\n\nAt this time other friends come to a corridor and see killed and injured schoolmates. Scott hurries to stop Patrick realizing that it was his fault. He finds Patrick threaten and abuse Tyrone who is crying on his knees and Rick still filming everything. Scott offers Patrick to let Tyrone go and \"take him instead\", but Patrick injures Scott and then kills Tyrone from one shot. Rick realizing that Patrick is serious throws the camera and runs away.\n\nThen Patrick takes the camera and pulls wounded Scott to a science room where he says on a camera that it wasn't a random killing and aimed\nto attract the attention of American people. He hopes that his act will stop teenage suicides and bullying at school and makes a shot in his head. Scott crawling to a friend takes a camera and tells in crying tone that it was a mistake. Then the police bursts into the room finding both of guys dead and switch off the camera.\n\nThe film ends with Scott's mother crying near the TV-set.\n\nCreated in 2004, \"State's Evidence\" traveled around the film festival circuits until it was picked up by distributor Terra Entertainment, and released on DVD on November 7, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "2578732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2578732", "title": "Suketu Mehta", "text": "Suketu Mehta\n\nSuketu Mehta is a writer based in New York City. He was born in Kolkata, India, to Gujarati parents and raised in Mumbai where he lived until his family moved to the New York area in 1977. He has attended New York University and the University of Iowa Writers' Workshop.\n\nHis autobiographical account of his experiences in the city of Mumbai, \"Maximum City,\" was published in 2004. The book, based on two and a half years research, explores the underbelly of the sprawling city. It was a 2005 Pulitzer Prize finalist.\n\nSuketu Mehta also co-wrote the screenplay to the Bollywood film \"Mission Kashmir\" with novelist Vikram Chandra.\n\nSuketu lives in Manhattan. He is currently working on a book about the New York City immigrant experience. He joined the New York University journalism faculty in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20372326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20372326", "title": "Thorbjørn Egners lesebøker", "text": "Thorbjørn Egners lesebøker\n\nThorbjørn Egners lesebøker () were a series of sixteen readers for elementary school written by Norwegian author Thorbjørn Egner. Egner spent 25 years working on the seriesconsisting of collected literature as well as his own stories and illustrationsand they were published in the years 1950–1972. The books were intended for children aged 8–15, which at the time corresponded to grades 2nd–9th. Among the recurring characters was the young boy Ola-Ola, who grew up on a farm on the Norwegian countryside, but later moved to the city and had to adapt to a new life. Other stories took place in far-away lands, reminiscent of the environment in Egner's celebrated \"People and Robbers of Cardemon Town\". There were also a selection of songs and poems in between the stories.\n\nThe books took over the role held for decades by the readers of Nordahl Rolfsen in the Norwegian educational system. Rolfsen's books were published in the years 1892–1895, and had been the standard works since, but starting in the 1950s, Egner's books took over this position. Egner himself considered the series to be the \"magnum opus\" of his collected works. In 1972, howeverthe year when the last book in the series was publishedthe educational program of Norwegian primary schools was altered. The new scheme largely abandoned the use of basic readers in the curriculum. As a result, Egner's textbooks were rendered virtually obsolete as educational tools. The books remain an important part of the Norwegian cultural heritage, being considered children's classics, and some of them have been reprinted more recently.\n\n"}
{"id": "2993576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2993576", "title": "Tournament of Minds", "text": "Tournament of Minds\n\nThe Tournament of Minds (ToM) is a school competition program available throughout Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Hong Kong, Thailand, India, Cambodia, Indonesia and Singapore. The competition is most prominent in Australia, but is slowly expanding to other countries. The program runs through the third school term, commonly commencing in the first week back at school.\n\nTeams of students work to solve problems in one of four disciplines, these being: The Arts, Language-literature, S.T.E.M, and Social Sciences. Students form teams of seven and work together to solve both spontaneous and long term challenges. There are two divisions, primary and senior, with the primary division finishing in year 6 (Year 7 in some states), and the secondary division finishing at year 10. Students in years 11 and 12 often assist the teams at their schools as coaches, and practice spontaneous challenges with the students. \n\nThe long term challenge is prepared by the students over five weeks, with minimal assistance from teachers or parents. The students receive an outline of the challenge and present their solution to the problem five weeks later at a regional competition. The solution takes the form of a dramatic production, with all costumes and props being created by the students with a strict $75 budget. \n\nThe spontaneous challenge is a very different aspect of the competition, where the students are judged on their lateral thinking processes and their ability to communicate effectively and work together as a team. The challenge is spoken to the team and they are given between three and five minutes preparation time, in which they are judged on their effective use of time and creativity of their ideas, amongst other criteria. They are then given one or two minutes to present the solution. No marks are awarded for presentation. \n\nThe scoring for the competition is a mixture of the long-term and spontaneous challenges. The team that scored the highest in each division, progresses to the state finals. Some states (such as South Australia) do not have a state final, and all schools in the state compete in the first round. The eight winning teams from each state then progress to the national finals, held in a different prominent Australian city each year. The state and national finals are held slightly differently to the regional competitions. The teams are given three hours to prepare their long-term challenge, as opposed to six weeks. Aside from the difference in time, the challenges are fundamentally similar. The teams still must also complete a spontaneous challenge. \n\nThe Tournament is designed to encourage lateral thinking, creativity and teamwork skills in young people around Australia and the Pacific region. The tournament has been embraced by many schools throughout the region, providing their students with a different approach to learning and giving them useful skills in communication.\n\n"}
{"id": "628161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=628161", "title": "University of Santiago, Chile", "text": "University of Santiago, Chile\n\nThe University of Santiago, Chile (Usach) () is one of the oldest public universities in Chile. The institution was born as \"Escuela de Artes y Oficios\" (Spanish \"School of Arts and Crafts\") in 1849, under the government of Manuel Bulnes. It became \"Universidad Técnica del Estado\" (Spanish \"Technical University of the State\") in 1947, with various campuses throughout the country. In 1981, as a consequence of a reform on higher education under the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet, it became what is now known as \"Universidad de Santiago de Chile\", with all activities centered in a single 340,000 m² campus in the capital Santiago.\n\nThe University of Santiago of Chile (USACH) started as the School of Arts and Crafts in 1849. It was born in mid-20th century and it is the fifth oldest university in Chile.\n\nThe Escuela de Artes y Oficios (EAO)(Spanish \"School of Arts and Crafts\") was founded in July 6, 1849 during the Manuel Bulnes Prieto rule, to improve scientific and technical development in the country. It started with four workshops: Mining, Mechanics, Casting and Carpentry. \nAt the time, students ages ranged between 15 and 18 years old, thus making the EAO not a University, but a secondary education entity. Students were required to read and write and to know basic arithmetic operations. Besides being intensely trained in workshops, students studied algebra, descriptive geometry, trigonometry, technical drawing, industrial mechanics, physics and chemistry, besides Spanish, history and geography. This was a four-year education that later, in 1858, extended to five years. Graduates were called 'apprentices'.\n\nIn 1886 the EAO moved to a bigger building, located at Quinta Normal, where it would stay up until now. In 1912 it started to educate 'industrial sub-engineers', later known as 'technicians'. By the time, the EAO was able to grant two education level degrees: Arts and Crafts degrees (secondary education level) and Technician degrees (tertiary education level), and by 1936 it granted Industrial Engineering degrees too.\n\nLater during the presidency of Gabriel González Videla through the DFL Decree No. 1831 of April 9, 1947, the School of Arts and Crafts was joined with the School of Mining in Copiapó (1857), La Serena (1887) and Antofagasta (1918), with the Industrial Design Schools (1905) in Temuco (1916) and Valdivia (1934), with the Industrial Engineering Schools in Santiago (1940) and with the Technical Pedagogy Institute. Together these formed the Technical State University (\"Universidad Técnica del Estado\", UTE), resulting in it becoming the best Chilean university in the area of applied engineering and industrial technician training. \nIn February 8, 1952, the first statute that allowed the grouping to begin functioning as a university in legal, administrative and academic terms, was enacted. Its first president was Don Octavio Valenzuela Lazo (12 March 1952 to March 12, 1953). \nIn 1958, the Teknos, the university's troupe, was founded.\nAcademic activity remained in the hands of the four Faculty Councils under the tuition of the University Council. During the 1960s, the DFL No. 2, 1971, allowed for the enacting of a second organizational statute, which allowed the University to be organized through offices, colleges, departments, and all academic structures that the board would deem appropriate.\n\nIn 1968 due to the University Reform of 1967-1973, Enrique Kirberg Baltiansky assumed the rectory, the only university rector fully elected by faculty and students.\n\nIn 1971, during the government of Salvador Allende, Revised Statutes of the \"Universidad Técnica del Estado\" were approved. \nDuring the 1973 coup, Kirberg was removed from his post and imprisoned by the military regime, the statute previously approved was declared void, and new guidelines were reformulated with appointments done entirely by the military regime.\n\nIn 1981, the military regime through the DFL Decree No. 23 of March 21, 1981, divided the headquarters of the State Technical University, giving rise to new universities and professional institutes. Steps were taken to form the headquarters into the University of Santiago de Chile. The other sites became separately named universities such as the University of Atacama, the University of Antofagasta, the University of Serena, the Professional Institute of Talca (later transformed into the University of Talca), the University of the Bío-Bío, the University of La Frontera, the Professional Institute of Osorno (subsequently transformed into the University of Los Lagos), the Professional Institute of Valdivia (later integrated in 1988 into the Southern University of Chile) and the Magellan Professional Institute (later transformed into the University of Magallanes). The University of Santiago de Chile, near the University of Atacama and the University of Magallanes are the only heirs of the traditional State Technical University, because at the time of the dissolution and the creation of the new universities in 1981, the headquarters (Santiago), Copiapó and Punta Arenas, were not integrated with other university offices. The headquarters is located where the old School of Arts and Crafts used to be in the municipality of Estación Central. One of its symbols is the planetarium built in the 1980s.\n\nThe university houses over 18,000 undergraduate students in 66 different majors, in the following departments:\n\n\nIn 2017, Times Higher Education ranked the university within the 401-500 band globally.\n\n\nEstadio Usach is a multi-use stadium in central Santiago, Chile, named after the Universidad de Santiago de Chile. It is currently used mostly for football matches and until around 2003 was used to host the home matches for Club de Deportes Santiago Morning, which now plays in La Pintana. The stadium holds 3,000 people.\n\n"}
{"id": "44296087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44296087", "title": "Wissenschaftlicher Assistent", "text": "Wissenschaftlicher Assistent\n\nWissenschaftlicher Assistent, often shortened to Assistent, literally \"scientific assistant\", usually translated as assistant professor in English, was formerly an academic position at German universities for researchers with doctoral degrees and additional academic qualifications, who were typically employed to conduct research to qualify themselves for the Habilitation and thus a full Professorship. The position was abolished in 2005 and replaced with the title \"Juniorprofessor\" (\"junior professor\"). Like professors, the position formed part of the pay grade (\"Besoldungsordnung\") C of the higher civil service (\"höherer Dienst\"), with a rank within the civil service equal to major in the military.\n\nThe position was partially comparable to a postdoctoral researcher in many universities today, and partially to assistant professors in the North American system. When a person obtained an Habilitation (or in some cases, equivalent qualifications), he or she would be eligible to become Adjunct Full Professor (\"außerplanmäßiger Professor\"), Professor Extraordinarius (\"außerordentlicher Professor\") or even Professor Ordinarius (\"ordentlicher Professor\").\n"}
{"id": "35611976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35611976", "title": "Woodswomen, Inc.", "text": "Woodswomen, Inc.\n\nWoodswomen, Inc. was a nonprofit organization focusing on education and adventure travel run by women, for women out of Minneapolis, Minnesota, from 1977 to 1999. Woodswomen, referred to as the 'grandmother' of women's outdoor adventure groups, was one of the first adventure travel companies serving exclusively women and served more than 8,000 women 1,200 children in its tenure.\n\nThe name 'Woodswomen' was first used in 1977 when Judith Niemi, Elizabeth Barnard, Shirley Heyer, and Trudy Fulton organized a Boundary Waters Canoe Area trip for women. Though three women—Judith Niemi, Denise Mitten and Elizabeth Barnard—are generally credited with the initial organization, they maintain that it was founded organically. This means that each woman has her own Woodswomen history and no one person started out to make a business out of adventure travel for women. For example, Judith Niemi's personal Woodswomen began when she decided that women needed an organization that would run outdoor trips solely for them after a trip in the Boundary Waters Canoe Area where she saw no other women for two weeks. \nIn 1980, Woodswomen launched a women-and-leadership course which turned into a well-respected leadership program that trained many women who led Woodswomen trips and trips for other companies. Woodswomen was incorporated as a nonprofit organization in 1982. Also in 1982, the organization organized and sponsored an expedition commemorating Mina Benson Hubbard's 1905 George River trip in Labrador, Canada. A seven-member expedition team traveled for four weeks on a 200-mile journey following Hubbard's route. \n\nIn 1985 Kathy Phibbs opened the Northwest office of Woodswomen and served as its director. Two years earlier she had organized the first meeting of Women Climbers Northwest (WCN) in 1983.\n\nIn 1987 Denise Mitten secured a grant from the Emma B. Howe Foundation and started the Women and Children Bonding in the Outdoors Program. Expanding their reach, in 1989 Mitten answered a request for proposals from the Minnesota Department of Corrections and secured funding for the Wilderness Experiences for Women Offenders Program.\n\nIn 1990 Woodswomen sponsored the 100th year Commemoration Climb of Fay Fuller's assent of Mount Rainier, Washington. Kathy Phibbs and several other women lead the climb which included over 30 women, many wearing dresses, and one woman who completed the climb with an artificial leg.\n\nIn 1992 Woodswomen started Minnesota Youth Outdoors programs for lesbian, gay and bisexual youth. Youth participated in a series of one to two day trips. Woodswomen guides and \"adult supporter team members hope that sense of self and success will help gay and lesbian youth negotiate a time fraught with difficulties.\"\n\nIn 1993 Woodswomen had 59 domestic trips and 11 international trips ranging from cross-country skiing in Minnesota to climbing Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania.\nWoodswomen closed its doors in 1999, passing on the mailing list to Marian Marbury, who went on to found Adventures in Good Company.\n\nWoodswomen's mission was to \"offer supportive and challenging learning opportunities for women and for women and children to help foster individual growth, responsibility, and relationship skills.\" Woodswomen was set up with feminist and environmentalist ideals in mind, and as such empowering women and protecting the environment played a large role in the choices of directors and guides. \n\nWoodswomen was a unique organization that pioneered several important programatical aspects of adventure therapy and adventure education; this was done because of the overarching values guiding the organization and staff including: \nJudith Niemi explained part of Woodswomen's philosophy as \"Not worrying about competition, achievement, ego. Especially not thinking we are conquering nature.\" Many people go into the wilderness with the mindset of \"conquering the great outdoors.\" Woodswomen trips worked to counter that mindset and instead learn through nature, getting to feel comfortable, and ending up feeling blissful, in the outdoors. In addition, Woodswomen staff worked to be process oriented. The idea was that it was not important how far you went, how fast you climbed, etc., but rather what you saw, what you experienced, what you did. For guides, a great deal of emphasis was placed on leadership styles, and guides completed extensive guide trainings. Woodswomen directors would look for \"alternatives to hierarchical leadership and centralized authority,\" working to have everyone participate in decision-making.\nWoodswomen directors maintained that learning outdoor skills from other women is better for women than learning them from men. Especially in the early years of Woodswomen (1970s and '80s), many women did not have strong outdoors skills because they had not been given the opportunity to learn them. This would lead to women on outdoor trips being marginalized for their lack of skill and not getting the opportunity to learn. When men on trips would teach women some skills, it would be condescending and hierarchal, and women would get frustrated when they didn't get it right away. When women learn from women, there's not as much of the condescension, and women are able to take more control of their learning—\"When women learn from women, they take more credit for learning,\" said Elizabeth Barnard in an interview. Traveling with other women also gets women out of passive roles they may take at home and on trips with men, where they are marginalized in favor of having the supposedly stronger and faster men do the job. When men are not around, it's impossible for women to fall into gender roles in terms of the tasks they perform and the skills they must learn.\nIn addition to learning new skills and becoming comfortable in the outdoors, one of the main byproducts of Woodswomen trips was increased self-esteem in participants. Women coming back from Woodswomen trips reported an increase in confidence, saying things like \"now I know I can go for that job promotion.\" Woodswomen affiliates did research over the years about outcomes of trips, and learned about how empowered women felt after trips.\nWoodswomen Inc.'s primary function was to offer adventure travel trips for women. In 1993, Woodswomen ran 70 trips in 8 different countries, and when it closed in 1999, Woodswomen had served over 8,000 women and 1,200 children through its outdoor adventure programs. Woodswomen ran trips focusing on activities including biking, rock climbing, backpacking, cross country skiing, kayaking, canoeing, whitewater canoeing and rafting, winter camping, sea kayaking, snorkeling, SCUBA diving, mountaineering, horse packing, llama packing, wild ricing, and dogsledding. Trips were geared to serve women with no outdoor experience to women with extensive outdoor experience, and a range of women participated in the trips, from professionals to housewives to low income women on scholarships (Woodswomen had a scholarship fund, sponsored by former trip participants and others, to defray the cost of trips so that low income women could also attend).\nWoodswomen guides completed an extensive guide-training program, focusing on leadership styles, group dynamics. Hollis Giammatteo, writing for \"Ms.\" magazine, took a leadership course that included climbing Mount Adams in Washington state. According to Giammatteo, Denise Mitten refined Woodswomen's acclaimed leadership program, creating a style stressing ethical and inclusive leadership. For Woodswomen guides, leadership was viewed as a role that encourages appropriate participation, not as a characteristic of a personality type. The idea rigid of goal-setting and the language of right and wrong were removed. Woodswomen guides, for example, would avoid words that connote domination, such as 'attack the trail,' summit assault,' conquer the mountain.'\" Rather, they would say things like \"'run the rapids,' 'climb the mountain,' or 'let's start hiking.'\" Giammatteo wrote that Mitten taught the hostess concept, meaning that one guides in areas in alignment with one's ability. Just like one would throw a party in a place where one is comfortable and know where things are, ones leads trips in an areas where one is comfortable.\n\nWoodswomen ran a number of special programs along with the adventure travel trips. One, called Minnesota Youth Outdoors, was a program which served gay, lesbian, and bisexual youth and allies. Minnesota Youth Outdoors ran one and two day trips to various locations in Southern Minnesota, giving participants opportunities to go rock climbing, canoeing, skiing, and hiking. Trips were designed to expose LGBT youth to the outdoors and to provide them with positive interactions with adults, potentially leading to higher self-esteem, a greater affinity for nature, and hope for the future. Wilderness Experiences for Women Offenders was another of Woodswomen's special programs. Through this program, women felons would go on three-day outdoors trips, gaining confidence and trust in themselves and other participants. Another program was called Women and Children Bonding in the Outdoors and provided opportunities for low-income women and their children to experience outdoor activities. This program was designed to expose inner-city women and their children to outdoor activities; in the process women and children would gain self-respect, the courage to accept challenges, cooperation skills, and respect for nature.\nWoodswomen affiliates taught various classes and workshops about the outdoors at colleges and schools around the Twin Cities metro area, in subjects ranging from log-cabin building, Minnesota ecology, feminism and ecology, botany, the history and literature of women and living in the wilderness, first aid, knots and ropes, bike touring, kayaking, bird watching, orienteering, working consciously and conscientiously with women in the outdoors, and camping with children.\n"}
{"id": "26529429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26529429", "title": "World Anti-Piracy Observatory", "text": "World Anti-Piracy Observatory\n\nThe World Anti-Piracy Observatory (WAPO) is a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) program engineered to help combat copyright infringement, sometimes known as piracy. The program, approved in 2005 and initiated in January 2010, is the first web-based platform to gather and disseminate information about anti-infringement activities in the UNESCO Member States. A free, public service regularly updated by various partners, WAPO offers information in English, French and Spanish organized by country.\n\n"}
{"id": "9787395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9787395", "title": "École européenne de chimie, polymères et matériaux", "text": "École européenne de chimie, polymères et matériaux\n\nThe École européenne de chimie, polymères et matériaux (ECPM; European School of Chemistry, Polymers and Materials Science) of Strasbourg is a public engineering school in the city of Strasbourg, in Alsace, France. It was founded in 1948, and is located on the Cronenbourg Campus of the University of Strasbourg. Each year 90 students graduate from the school with a diplôme d'ingénieur. It is a National School of Engineers, part of the University of Strasbourg and a member of the , which recruits from the common polytechnic entrance examination. It is also part of the Alsace Tech network of nine engineering schools in Alsace. The ECPM offers its students three specialties: chemistry (analytical or organic), polymers or materials.\n\n\"1919\" -\nCreation of the chemical institute by the professors T.Muller and H.Gault. Lectures are taught rue Goethe in Strasbourg.\n\n\"1948\" -\nCreation at the same place of the Ecole nationale supérieure de chimie (ENSCS) by the professor H. Forestier.\n\n\"1962\" -\nThe Ecole de chimie has place in new premises (tour de la Chimie) on the . The first practical sessions from the ENSCS in analytical chemistry begin at the start of the school year 1962.\n\n\"1968\" -\nThe ENSCS becomes a public organization.\n\n\"1981\" -\nThe professor M. Daire introduces the European teaching program.\n\n\"1986\" -\nThe ENSCS becomes Ecole Européenne des hautes études des industries chimiques de Strasbourg (EHICS)\n\n\"1995\" -\nThe EHICS, the Ecole d'application des hauts Polymères and the Magistère matériaux de l'université de Strasbourg-I group together and form the Ecole de chimie, Polymères et Matériaux (ECPM).\n\n\"1998-1999\" -\nThe ECPM moves to new premises on the University's Cronenbourg campus.\n\n\"2006\" -\nStrasbourg becomes business cluster of the French chemistry.\n\n\"2009\" -\nThe and the other universities of Strasbourg are joined and form l'\n\n\"2011\" -\nOpening of the new Classe préparatoire intégrée internationale (CP2I) - CHEM.I.ST. at the start of the school year 2011.\n\n→ To enter the First year:\n\n- The school recruit essentially with the «Concours Communs Polytechniques» (CCP) or the DEUG (which are national competitive exams).\n\n- The admission could also be done by an interview with a License 3 in Chemistry or in Physics at the university, a DUT (university diploma of technology) for example, in Chemistry, physical measurements optional materials or chemical engineering.\n\n- For international students, they must have a Bachelor of science or an equivalent foreign degree.\n\n- After 2 years in CPI classes at Rennes (ENSCR), Lille(ENSCL), Clermont-Ferrand (ENSCCF) or in Strasbourg (ECPM: referred to the CPI classe's paragraph).\n\n→ To enter the Second year, students can have access at the ECPM having an interview, with a Master M1 in Physics with a speciality in Polymers or materials.\n\n→ Admission to the CP2i class in the ECPM, after the Baccalaureate, or an equivalent foreign degree for the international students.\n\nThere is no competitive exam, but every student should submit their school results. Then there are interviews to evaluate the motivations with the people in charge of the Chem.I.St programme. Approximately 50 students are selected every year. There are nearly 20% international students.\n\nThis class allows the students to gain admission to a school of the Fédération Gay Lussac (19 schools) after two years. These 2 years consist of studying engineer's trades in the domain of chemistry.\n\nThere are 5 CPIs in France: Rennes, Clermont-Ferrand, Lille, Pau and Strasbourg at the ECPM\n\nThe last one was opened at the start of the 2011-12 school year in Strasbourg. The speciality of this school is that it welcomes a large number of international students, as well as that 20% of the courses are delivered in English and 10% are delivered in German (optional). There are 50 students in each year.\n\nTo gain admission to the CP2I:\n\n\nStudents are selected on the basis of their academic record and a 20-minute interview.\n\n\nInternational students are also selected on the basis of their academic record and an interview.\n\nGeneral presentation of CPI-CHEM.I.ST :\n\nThe CPI-CHEM.I.ST base of more practical work than in an intensive foundation degree, with high-quality laboratory. The program includes group work to develop the communication, the creativity around scientists projects. Moreover, in 2016, a \"videxo\" program was created. During, the \"videxo\" student solves a science problem on a board and in the same time someone films him to send the video to the teachers. The goal of this is to promote self-confidence, speaking, and the scientist reflexion which are important qualities for the future engineer.\n\n\nThe speciality is chosen in the second year. Students have four possibilities:\n\nChemistry:\n\nOrganic Chemistry: With this speciality, students attain a high level in synthesis and characterization of organic chemistry.\n\nAnalytical Chemistry: Students are trained in techniques of analysis within the context of quality control.\n\nPolymers: Students are trained to become flexible engineers in the polymer industry.\n\nMaterials: Students are trained in physics and chemistry of functional materials. Students become engineers specializing in conception and development of materials with an added value.\n\nThere are several associations managed by school's students :\n\n- l'Amicale (BDE) (or \"Student Union\" ): It manages the associative and festive life of the school, organizes students foyer's functioning, publishes students' directory and organizes events like, for example, new students integration's weekend. About ten clubs exist in the association like the Arts' Office, DéméTerre (sustainable development), Theatre Club, Manga Club, Cine Club, Gastronomy Club, study trip, etc.\n\n- Le Bureau des Sports (BDS° (or Sports Office) : It allows students to do sport, to participate in university competitions and organizes events like a nice trip at the month for a weekend or at the (TIC) in spring. Moreover, the ECPM won this sports and festive event in 2006 which has been organized in Mulhouse.\n\n- Le \"Forum Horizon Chimie\" (FHC) : It's the ECPM's association that organize a forum which happens every year at la in Paris.\n\nMoreover, a junior company, Strasbourg Chimie Service, allows students-employed to make some punctual missions like chemical analyses, scientific conferences or translations of publications.\n\nIt also exists l'Amicale des Ingénieurs de Chimie de Strasbourg (Association of the Strasbourg's Engineers of Chemistry). It's an association aiming at conservation and relations' strengthening between graduates and students. It has in particular for ultimate objective the creation of a robust and big network ECPM, a very great tool for a successful career.\n\n-Student common room\n\nThe ECPM Student common room is the center of the school. It is a place where students can relax after lunch or during off-peak times. \nIt is a big place where you can find a table football, a billiard table, many couches and tables and even a microwave. In fact, it is possible to eat food you’ve brought. Moreover, there is a mezzanine with a hi-fi system, which makes you think of a nightclub and a terrace which is surrounded by trees and is really cozy.\nEveryone has the right to go to the student common room, the students in the engineering cycle and the CPI’s. Furthermore, the BDE and the BDS (respectively student union and sports office) sometime organize parties in the student common room (for example barbecues) to bring the whole school together. For example, there is the Welcome Party every year for new students.\n\nThe ECPM participated to many different networks in order to communicate with factories, institutions or students.\n\nThat different networks are :\n\n-The Gay- Lussac federation: The federation was found by Louis Joseph Gay Lussac. It regroups no more than 19 schools of chemistry and chemical engineering. These 19 schools, through their teaching activities, research and training, are working together to raise awareness, develop and promote engineering courses in chemistry.\n\n-The network “Alsace Tech“: Alsace Tech regroups 12 reputed engineering, management and architecture schools of Alsace. Its main objective is to promote, to contribute to the national and international influence and to increase the legibility of its schools' members.\n\nThe ECPM is a hub for scientific research. Five laboratories associated with the form the ECPM's research federation. The fields of research are varied: materials, catalysis, polymers, organic synthesis, analysis of biomolecules. The laboratories collaborate with industries and major European research organizations as part of European agreements. A 1000m² hall with a cleanroom further the exchanges with industry.\n\nAssociated Laboratories\n\n- The SYBIO Laboratory (Synthèse Organique et Molécules Bioactives)\n\n- Laboratoire de Chimie Bioorganique et Médicale\n\n- The Nierengarten group\n\n- Laboratoire de Synthèse et Catalyse Asymétrique (SynCat)\n\n- Laboratoire de Chimie organométallique\n\nYou can find different kinds of food services in and around the campus.\n\n- Restaurant universitaire (RU): this is the place where the majority of the students come everyday. The choice is between three different main courses: today's special, world's dish, and the grill. Patrons can also take a starter and a dessert, the whole for 3€15. Dining is in a large room with all the campus' students: CPI, engineers, and students of the IUT Louis Pasteur.\n\n- Mini R : It's a new concept ! It's located above the RU. The principle is the same as a cafeteria. You choose what you want: sandwiches, fagotine, fruits, desserts, drinks, and some hot food like pizzas, paninis, pasta and wok boxes, kebab, hot dog, etc. One can eat there or take away.\n\n- Vending machine: in the school, next to the coffee machine. There are several kinds of sandwiches, but all of them are industrial.\n\n- In the common room: it is mainly the place where the engineers eat because they are contributors (prices are less expansive for them). For those bringing food from their flat, you can warm up there; there are ovens and stovetops.\n\n- Fast food and supermarkets: Finally, there is an area next to the IUT Louis Pasteur with fast food like Mac Donald, Mezzo di Pasta or supermarkets (Liddl, Intermarché).\n\nAccording to the \"Point\" newspaper, the ECPM was ranked 18th in 2007 and was the leading chemistry schools in that rank (excluding chemical engineering) before the ENSCP which occupied the 30th rank. According to \"L'Express\", the school was ranked 27th as a \"post-prépa\" engineering school in 2008, behind the National School of Chemistry of Paris in the category of chemistry schools. Concerning starting incomes, the ECPM was ranked 10th by \"L'Usine Nouvelle\" in 2007. In the same newspaper, the ECPM is ranked 6th as a school betting on self-knowledge, that is to say, a school devoting a large part to non-scientific lectures.\n"}
