{"id": "50822377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50822377", "title": "2016 Southern Aleppo campaign", "text": "2016 Southern Aleppo campaign\n\nThe 2016 Southern Aleppo campaign was a series of military operations that started on 1 April when the Islamist rebel coalition Army of Conquest, led by the al-Nusra Front, launched a surprise offensive south of Aleppo. The main objective of the operation was to recapture territory they had lost during the large-scale government offensive in late 2015.\n\nIn the afternoon of 1 April, rebel forces launched the offensive, targeting the strategic village of Tel el-Ais, that overlooks the Damascus–Aleppo highway. The operation started with preparatory shelling hitting the village's southwestern flank. This was followed up by a ground assault that included an attack conducted by three suicide car bombers against government positions. According to one report, the bombers did not reach their targets, while according to another, they managed to clear the way for the rebel infantry. Still, the attack on Tel el-Ais was eventually repelled. However, soon after, the rebels launched a second assault, and early on 2 April, they captured Tel el-Ais. The Al-Nusra Front claimed they ambushed government troops as they were withdrawing from the village.\n\nAfter securing the village, the rebels proceeded to attack and seize the Jabal Al-'Eiss (Mount Eiss) area, with the Army withdrawing towards Hader. Meanwhile, elsewhere along the frontline, the rebels captured the villages of Abu Ruwayl, Hawbar and Birnah as the offensive started, however they were recaptured by the military by the following morning. Among the dead on the government side from the previous two days of fighting were 12 Hezbollah fighters and three IRGC officers.\n\nAs of early 3 April, a counter-attack had not yet started as government forces were awaiting the arrival of the final batch of ammunition and vehicles. Later in the day, a rebel source stated 100 government vehicles were seen heading towards the southern countryside of Aleppo. At 10 p.m. that evening, the Army counter-attack started and government forces reportedly captured several points on the eastern and northern perimeter of Tel el-Ais, coming to within a few hundred meters of the village. Still, by the morning, two attacks to breach the village itself had been repelled, although the main assault had not yet taken place as airstrikes continued.\n\nOn 5 April, a Syrian Air Force plane was shot down in the area of Tel el-Ais by the Al-Nusra Front, with the pilot captured. During the day, members of the Iranian 65th Airborne Special Forces Brigade reportedly arrived in Hader. For the first time since February, Russian air-strikes were conducted in the southern Aleppo countryside, in preparation for the Army counter-attack.\n\nLate on 5 April, the Iranian special forces, supported by Syrian Army troops, attacked the village. In the early hours of the next day, it was incorrectly claimed they recaptured Tel el-Ais. Still, pro-opposition SOHR confirmed government troops made progress in the area of Tel el-Ais. During the day, the rebels temporarily withdrew from the village due to heavy shelling before returning. Elsewhere, the military captured Zorba, but it was recaptured by the rebels one hour later. The same day, another large Army convoy arrived in the area.\n\nOn 9 April, the rebels took control of the village of Khalidiyah, near Khan Tuman, as well as two hilltops and large parts of Zaytan, Birnah and al-Qal'ajiyyeh. Meanwhile, government forces intensified their shelling of Tel el-Ais and nearby Zorba, with over 100 mortars and rockets being fired at rebel positions, while Russian air-strikes continued.\n\nThe next day, the military recaptured Khalidiyah and the rebels withdrew from Zaytan, Birnah and other positions they had taken during the previous 24 hours. During the rebel assault on Khalidiyah and Khan Tuman, four Iranian commandos were killed, including two members of the 65th Airborne Special Forces Brigade.\n\nOn 12 April, a new government assault on Tel el-Ais started. Before the attack, 300 rockets were launched at rebel positions in the area. Fighting also took place near Khan Tuman. The Army managed to advance and capture several hills in the area, as well as most of the village itself. However, this latest attack on Tel el-Ais was also eventually repelled, when government forces withdrew from the village after not being able to take Jabal Al-'Eiss hill. The hills that they had also seized earlier in the day were once again under rebel control.\n\nOne week after the end of the offensive, the rebels once again launched a two-pronged attack against Khan Tuman, Zaytan and Birnah. The attack was quickly repelled, with more than 30 rebels reportedly being killed at Khan Tuman and two of their tanks being destroyed.\n\nOn 5 May, the United States and Russia agreed on a cessation of hostilities in Aleppo for 48 hours. However, fighting continued in the city and surrounding areas. The same day, the Army of Conquest militants, supported by Jund al-Aqsa and the Turkistan Islamic Party in Syria (TIP), advanced and captured the village of Khalidiyah, west of Khan Tuman and southwest of Aleppo. The rebels then launched artillery attack on Khan Tuman. During the fighting, the Army destroyed a car bomb with a rocket. Around 7 a.m. on 6 May, the rebels captured Khan Tuman, as well as five other nearby villages. In all, 62 pro-government fighters and 57 rebels were killed in the rebel assault. During the clashes, an air strike hit a heavy concentration of rebels, killing 18 fighters.\n\nFollowing the capture of Khan Tuman, hundreds of government reinforcements, including Palestinian militiamen, were sent to help recapture the town. Preparations were being made for a counter-attack, with Russian air-strikes reportedly hitting rebel positions in the area. On 7 May, government troops recaptured three villages.\n\nThe counter-attack against Khan Tuman started on 8 May, and was reportedly repelled. By 11 May, the fighting in the area of Khan Tuman left 173 fighters dead on both sides and more than 300 wounded. Among those killed on the rebel side were 35 Turkistan Islamic Party members as well as a number of Uzbeks. Among pro-government dead were 55 Afghans, Iranians, Iraqis and Lebanese.\n\nOvernight between 11 and 12 May, heavy Russian air-strikes hit rebel positions in the area of Khan Tuman.\n\nOn 3 June, a new surprise rebel offensive was started. al-Nusra suicide bombers detonated car bombs near Khan Tuman, followed by an assault with heavy armour toward pro-government positions. Ahrar al-Sham then seized the village of Maratah, capturing a large amount munitions crates, a T-62, and a fuel depot. The rebels also took over three more villages, an air defence battalion, and a weapons warehouse. By the next day, the rebels had taken control of five villages. The same day, the Sham Legion launched an anti-tank guided missile at a suspected Syrian Army position near the area, killing a Dagestani al-Qaeda commander in a friendly fire incident.\n\nOn 14 June, al-Nusra led a fresh jihadist assault in the southern Aleppo countryside, targeting the villages of Khalsah and Zeitain, controlled by a number of pro-government forces. The jihadists initially captured Zeitain, whilst heavy fighting continued in Khalsah.\n\nOn 15 June, the National Defence Forces, Hezbollah and allied forces launched a counter-attack and succeeded in recapturing the village of Zeitan, whilst also repelling the jihadist assault on Khalsah. It was reported that over 20 jihadist fighters had been killed, whilst a rebel T-72 tank and 2 BMP's were destroyed.\n\nOn 16 June, a pro-government counter-attack against Maratah was repelled.\n\nDuring the night of 17 and 18 June, the jihadist rebels led by al-Nusra imposed full control over the villages of Khalsah, Zeitan and Birnah, despite suffering heavy losses, including the death of a top commander. Overall, 186 fighters on both sides were killed in the fighting over the previous four days, 100 rebels and 86 pro-government fighters.\n\nMuhaysini visited Turkistan Islamic Party fighters before the battle and performed dua. Khan Tuman in Aleppo then came under attack by the Uyghur Turkistan Islamic Party. A picture of Muhaysini with a Turkistan Islamic Party fighter in Khan Touman was released by the Turkistan Islamic Party after the battle. They displayed weapons and munitions seized during the battle. Corpses of what the TIP labelled as \"Rawafid\" (Shia) fighters and pictures of \"Iranian\" prisoners were released by the TIP.\n\n"}
{"id": "48246684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48246684", "title": "52246 Donaldjohanson", "text": "52246 Donaldjohanson\n\n52246 Donaldjohanson, provisional designation , is a carbonaceous Erigonian asteroid from the inner regions of the asteroid belt, approximately in diameter. It was discovered on 2 March 1981, by American astronomer Schelte Bus at the Siding Spring Observatory in Australia. The C-type asteroid is a target of the \"Lucy\" mission and was aptly named after American paleoanthropologist Donald Johanson.\n\n\"Donaldjohanson\" is a member of the Erigone family (), a large carbonaceous asteroid family of nearly 2,000 known members, which is named after its parent body 163 Erigone. It is a relatively old family that was created approximately 130 million years ago.\n\nIt orbits the Sun in the inner asteroid belt at a distance of 1.9–2.8 AU once every 3 years and 8 months (1,345 days; semi-major axis of 2.38 AU). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.19 and an inclination of 4° with respect to the ecliptic. A first precovery was taken at the discovering observatory in February 1981, extending the body's observation arc by 2 weeks prior to its official discovery observation.\n\n\"Donaldjohanson\" is planned to be visited by the \"Lucy\" spacecraft which will launch in 2021. The flyby is scheduled for 20 April 2025, and will approach the asteroid to a distance of 922 kilometers at a velocity of 13.4 kilometers per second. The mission's targets with their flyby dates are:\n\n\"Donaldjohanson\" has been characterized as a carbonaceous C-type asteroid, in-line with the C and X overall spectral type for Erigonian asteroids. It has an absolute magnitude of 15.5. As of 2018, the asteroid's period, pole and shape remain unknown.\n\nAccording to the survey carried out by NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer with its subsequent NEOWISE mission, \"Donaldjohanson\" measures 3.895 kilometers in diameter and its surface has an albedo of 0.103.\n\nThis minor planet is planned to be visited by the \"Lucy\" spacecraft, which would observe it en route to its main target of several Jupiter trojans. The Lucy probe is named after the \"Lucy\" hominid fossil, while Donaldjohanson is named for that fossil's co-discoverer Donald Johanson (born 1943), an American paleoanthropologist. The approved naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 25 December 2015 ().\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6704216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6704216", "title": "66th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "66th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 66th World Science Fiction Convention (Worldcon), also known as Denvention 3, was hosted in Denver, Colorado, USA on 6–10 August 2008, at the Colorado Convention Center and Sheraton Denver Downtown Hotel (formerly known as the Adam's Mark Hotel). The organizing committee was chaired by Kent Bloom. The attending membership at the convention was 3,751.\n\n\nIn addition to the Guests of Honor, the convention has announced the names of the people participating in the convention program.\n\n\n\nAt L.A.con IV, Denver won the right to host the 66th Worldcon, on the third ballot by 12 votes in one of the closest races in Worldcon site selection history.\n\nThe members of Denvention 3 selected Melbourne as the hosting city for the 68th World Science Fiction Convention, to be held in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "23423743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23423743", "title": "Advanced Telescope for High Energy Astrophysics", "text": "Advanced Telescope for High Energy Astrophysics\n\nThe Advanced Telescope for High ENergy Astrophysics (ATHENA) is a future X-ray telescope of the European Space Agency, under development for launch around 2028. It is the second (L2) large class mission within ESA Cosmic Vision Program. ATHENA will be one hundred times more sensitive than the best of existing X-ray telescopes—the Chandra X-ray Observatory and XMM-Newton.\n\nThe primary goals of the mission are to map hot gas structures, determining their physical properties, and searching for supermassive black holes.\n\nThe mission has its roots in two mission concepts from the early 2000s, for the ESA XEUS and NASA Constellation-X missions. \nIn around 2008, these two proposals were merged into the joint NASA/ESA/JAXA International X-ray Observatory (IXO) proposal. However, \nin 2011 NASA withdrew from IXO due to funding issues, mainly due to large cost overruns on JWST. ESA then decided to proceed with a less costly modification of IXO, which became known as ATHENA. ATHENA was shortlisted for the first (L1) L-class Cosmic Vision selection in 2012, but lost to the Jupiter Icy Moon Explorer; after some modifications ATHENA was selected in 2014 as the second (L2) mission \n\nThe final decision about rebooting the International X-ray Observatory took place on the 27 of June 2014. The selected science topic is \"Hot and Energetic Universe\" with an objective of answering two questions from astrophysics: How does ordinary matter assemble into the large-scale structures we see today? And how do black holes grow and shape the universe?\n\nThe science team was appointed on 16 July 2014. Initial vibration testing of a silicon pore optics mirror module took place in August 2014. ESA's Science Programme Committee will meet in 2019 for a full review and final approval of the project before construction to begin in the same year.\n\nAn Ariane 6 launch vehicle will lift ATHENA in 2028 into a large amplitude halo orbit around of the Sun-Earth system through a direct transfer burn. was selected due to its stable thermal environment, good sky visibility and high observing efficiency. ATHENA is planned to perform scheduled observations of up to 300 celestial locations per year, each lasting from half an hour up to 11 days, though it can be repointed to observe transient events.\n\nATHENA will utilize a telescope with 12 m focal length, and two primary instruments: high resolution X-ray Integral Field Unit (X-IFU), and the Wide Field Imager (WFI) featuring a moderate resolution and a large field of view.\n\nThe telescope will use ESA-developed silicon pore optics providing combination of large field of view and high angular resolution. Each pore is a Wolter Type-I telescope only few mm in cross-section, with two reflections inside of each pore bringing X-ray in focus. In total, 1.5 million pores will be used. The telescope will be manufactured in 60 mm-wide arrays using commercially available silicon wafers.\n\nX-IFU utilizes an array of cryogenically cooled transition edge sensors with a detection range of 0.2–12 keV. Total field of view is 5 arcminutes.\n\nThe Wide Field Imager (WFI) is an X-ray spectrometer utilizing five arrays of p-channel field-effect transistors with a detection range of 0.1–15 keV. Its central chip has a resolution of 256 × 256 px and a field of view 7.5 arcminutes. Its four outer arrays have a resolution of 448 × 640 px and a field of view 40 arcminutes.\n\n"}
{"id": "21265402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21265402", "title": "Argentina v England (1986 FIFA World Cup)", "text": "Argentina v England (1986 FIFA World Cup)\n\nArgentina v England, played on 22 June 1986, was a football match between Argentina and England in the quarter-finals of the 1986 FIFA World Cup at the Estadio Azteca in Mexico City. The game was held four years after the Falklands War between Argentina and the United Kingdom, and was a key part in the already intense Argentina–England football rivalry. It was also a match which included two of the most famous goals in football history, both scored by Diego Maradona.\n\nThe first goal, after 51 minutes, was to become known as the \"Hand of God goal\", which Maradona scored by using his hand. His second, four minutes after his first, saw him dribble past five England players, Beardsley, Reid, Butcher, Fenwick, Butcher (again), and finally goalkeeper Peter Shilton, and became known as the \"Goal of the Century\". Argentina won the game 2–1 and went on to win the 1986 World Cup with a victory over West Germany in the final match. Maradona won the golden ball for player of the tournament; England's goalscorer on the day, Gary Lineker, won the golden boot for being the tournament's top scorer.\n\nBritish expatriates brought football to Argentina in the 19th century. The rivalry between the England and Argentina national football teams is generally traced back to the 1966 FIFA World Cup. During the quarter-final game at Wembley Stadium, the home of the England national team, Argentine captain Antonio Rattin was sent off as Argentina lost in a game which contained excessive foul play. Rattin was angered at the sending-off, feeling that the German referee Rudolf Kreitlein, who did not speak Spanish, had been biased towards the English, a fellow European nation, in front of their home fans, and stamped over the royal carpet in the stadium. This led England manager Alf Ramsey to describe the Argentines as \"animals\", comments that were viewed as racist by the Argentines.\n\nDespite the popularity of Osvaldo Ardiles and Ricardo Villa, Argentines who played with Tottenham Hotspur in England in an era before it was commonplace for clubs to have non-British players, the rivalry remained strong.\n\nOutside football, the Falklands War in 1982 increased the mistrust between England and Argentina. Britain administrates the Falkland Islands, a small archipelago in the South Atlantic, as a British overseas territory; Argentina claims the islands as Islas Malvinas. On 2 April 1982, Argentina's forces invaded the islands. Britain considered this an invasion of its territory and sent a naval task force that recaptured the Islands on 14 June 1982. Though the two nations were never officially at war, the conflict resulted in 258 British and 655 Argentine deaths. As a result, the match taking place four years after the war was emotionally charged. Following the game, Maradona stated: \"Although we had said before the game that football had nothing to do with the Malvinas war, we knew they had killed a lot of Argentine boys there, killed them like little birds. And this was revenge.\"\n\nThe 1986 FIFA World Cup was held in Mexico after the original hosts, Colombia, were unable to host the tournament. England qualified for the finals undefeated, topping Group 3 in the UEFA zone; Argentina also topped their qualifying group in CONMEBOL. In the early stages of the tournament, Argentina had been comfortable, winning two and drawing one in the group stage. England had qualified more narrowly, with a 3–0 win over Poland in the final match putting them into the round of 16. Both teams won comfortably against South American opposition in that round, Argentina against Uruguay and England against Paraguay. Although neither team began the tournaments as favourites, England's form had been improving throughout the World Cup and Argentina were buoyed by the skill of Maradona.\n\nArgentina beat Uruguay 10 in the round of 16 wearing blue cotton shirts that coach Carlos Bilardo believed would prove too uncomfortable in the searing Mexico City heat. Bilardo asked Argentina's kit manufacturer to come up with lighter blue shirts for the quarter-final, an impossible request given the short deadline. With three days to go before the match, he sent out Ruben Moschella, a member of his coaching staff, to scour the shops of the Mexican capital for a suitable kit. He returned with two different blue shirts, which they subsequently weighed but were unable to choose between. It was then that Diego Maradona appeared and said: \"That’s a nice jersey. We’ll beat England in that.\" Moschella returned to the shop and bought 38 of the shirts for the side to wear against England. A designer fashioned some makeshift Argentine Football Association (AFA) badges, which were then sewn on to each jersey, with silvery American Football shirt numbers hurriedly ironed on to the backs.\n\nBefore the 1986 game fans from both countries had a fight in Mexico City streets and into the stadium too. As a result, several English fans were hospitalised while some of their flags were stolen by Argentine barrabravas. Those flags would be then exhibited by Boca Juniors's supporters during some Argentine league matches.\n\nThe game started with both teams exchanging chances. Argentina began to dominate, with England's goalkeeper Peter Shilton saving several good chances, many created by Maradona. Peter Beardsley had England's best chance after 13 minutes, following a slip from Nery Pumpido in Argentina's goal, but failed to take it. At half time, the score was 00, Argentina having had much more of the possession and territory – and done a great deal more of the running – but having failed to get through England's defence.\n\nIt was the second half of the match that was to see the two incidents for which the game was to become both famous and infamous.\n\nSix minutes into the second half, Maradona cut inside from the left and played a diagonal low pass to the edge of the area to teammate Jorge Valdano and continued his run in the hope of a one-two movement. Maradona's pass was played slightly behind Valdano and reached England's Steve Hodge, the left midfielder who had dropped back to defend.\n\nHodge tried to hook the ball clear but miscued it. The ball looped off his foot and into the penalty area, toward Maradona, who had continued his run. England goalkeeper Peter Shilton came out of his goal to punch the ball clear. Maradona, despite being 8 inches (20 cm) shorter than the 6-foot-1 (1.85 m) Shilton, reached it first with his outside left hand. The ball bounced into the goal. Referee Ali Bin Nasser of Tunisia said he did not see the infringement and allowed the goal.\n\nMaradona later said, \"I was waiting for my teammates to embrace me, and no one came... I told them, 'Come hug me, or the referee isn't going to allow it.'\"\n\nAt the post-game press conference, Maradona facetiously commented that the goal was scored \"un poco con la cabeza de Maradona y otro poco con la mano de Dios\" (\"a little with the head of Maradona and a little with the hand of God\"), after which it became known as the \"Hand of God\" goal. The goal helped intensify the footballing rivalry between the two nations. Cesar Luis Menotti said, \"People said, 'Great! Better, much better, that the goal was so unjust, so cruel, because it hurt the English more.'\"\n\nFour minutes after the \"Hand of God\" goal came \"The Goal of the Century\", which is often said to be the greatest individual goal of all time. Midfielder Héctor Enrique passed the ball to Maradona inside his own half. Maradona then began his 60-yard, 10-second dash towards the English goal, passing four English outfield players: Peter Beardsley, Peter Reid, Terry Butcher (twice) and Terry Fenwick. Maradona finished the move with a feint that left goalkeeper Peter Shilton on his bottom, before slotting the ball into the net to make the score 2–0 to Argentina.\n\nAbout the goal, Maradona said, \"I made the play to give it to Valdano, but when I got to the area they surrounded me and I had no space. Therefore, I had to continue the play and finish it myself.\" He later complimented the fair play of the English team, saying, \"I don't think I could have done it against any other team because they all used to knock you down; they are probably the noblest in the world\".\n\nIn 2002, the goal was voted 'Goal of the Century' as part of the buildup to the 2002 FIFA World Cup tournament on the FIFA website. It beat a goal scored by England's Michael Owen against Argentina in the 1998 FIFA World Cup, which came second, whilst another 1986 FIFA World Cup goal by Maradona, from the semi-final match against Belgium, came fourth.\n\nIn Spanish-speaking countries, this goal is usually associated with the live commentary by Uruguayan journalist Víctor Hugo Morales (translation from Spanish):\n\nArgentina's lead forced England into a double-attacking substitution, bringing on Barnes and Waddle, and it nearly paid off: as the Argentine team began to tire after their earlier efforts, England began to push further up the pitch, looking to get back into the game. Driven by Glenn Hoddle and John Barnes, they created chances, and Gary Lineker scored his sixth goal of the tournament in the 80th minute from a Barnes cross. Argentina had further chances as well, with Carlos Tapia hitting the inside of the post immediately after England's goal. England were unable to score an equaliser and Argentina won the match 2–1.\n\nHodge swapped shirts with Maradona after the game; Hodge lent out the Argentine's jersey to the National Football Museum in the 2000s. The game added hugely to the rivalry between the two teams. In Argentina, the game was seen as revenge for the Falklands War and for what they still see as the unfair game in the 1966 World Cup. The former Argentine international Roberto Perfumo stated that \"In 1986, winning that game against England was enough. Winning the World Cup was secondary for us. Beating England was our real aim\".\n\nAlthough the first goal proved highly controversial in England, Maradona's second goal was nevertheless recognized all over the world for its brilliance. A notable example of the English appreciation of his genius occurred in a 2002 poll conducted by Channel 4, where the UK public voted Maradona's performance sixth in the list of the 100 Greatest Sporting Moments. Outside the Estadio Azteca a statue of Maradona scoring the goal was erected to commemorate the moment.\n\nArgentina went on to win the 1986 FIFA World Cup by defeating West Germany in the final match, as well as finishing runners-up in the 1990 FIFA World Cup. England's Lineker won the Golden Boot for being top scorer in the 1986 FIFA World Cup. With a similar squad, England finished fourth in the 1990 FIFA World Cup, their highest finish since 1966.\n\nThe two teams have since met twice in World Cup matches. Argentina won a round-of-16 match in the shootout at the 1998 FIFA World Cup, after one penalty kick was awarded to each side, David Beckham was sent off, Sol Campbell had a goal disallowed and Michael Owen scored his famous goal. At the 2002 FIFA World Cup, the teams met in the group stage, and the match, which began at 12:30 PM UK time, was described as the \"longest lunch break in history\" as millions in England stopped their jobs and activities to watch the game on TV. England won 1–0 courtesy of a foul by Mauricio Pochettino on Michael Owen. David Beckham's penalty kick won the match for England and Argentina later failed to advance to the knockout round.\n\nOn 17 August 2015, Maradona visited Ali Bin Nasser, the referee of the 1986 World Cup quarter-final, at his home in Tunisia, and paid tribute to him by giving him an Argentine jersey bearing his signature, and referred to him as \"my eternal friend\".\n"}
{"id": "25857113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25857113", "title": "Battle of Ramla (1105)", "text": "Battle of Ramla (1105)\n\nThe third Battle of Ramla (or Ramleh) took place on 27 August 1105 between the Crusader Kingdom of Jerusalem and the Fatimids of Egypt. The town of Ramla lay on the road from Jerusalem to Ascalon, the latter of which was the largest Fatimid fortress in Palestine. From Ascalon the Fatimid vizier, Al-Afdal Shahanshah, launched almost annual attacks into the newly founded Crusader kingdom from 1099 to 1107. Of the three battles the Crusaders fought at Ramla early in the twelfth century, the third was the most bloody.\n\nEgyptian armies of the period relied on masses of Sudanese bowmen supported by Arab and Berber cavalry. Since the archers were on foot and the horsemen awaited attack with lance and sword, an Egyptian army provided exactly the sort of immobile target that the Frankish heavy cavalry excelled in attacking. Whereas the Crusaders developed a healthy respect for the harass and surround tactics of the Turkish horse archers, they tended to discount the effectiveness of the Egyptian armies. While overconfidence led to a Crusader disaster at the second battle of Ramla, the more frequent result was a Fatimid defeat. \"The Franks never, until the reign of Saladin, feared the Egyptian as they did the armies from Muslim Syria and Mesopotamia.\"\n\nAs at Ramla in 1101, in 1105 the Crusaders had both cavalry and infantry under the leadership of Baldwin I. At the third battle, however, the Egyptians were reinforced by a Seljuk Turkish force from Damascus, including mounted archery, the great menace of the Crusaders. After they withstood the initial Frankish cavalry charge the battle raged for most of the day. Although Baldwin was once again able to drive the Egyptians from the field of battle and loot the enemy camp he was unable to pursue them any further: \"the Franks appear to have owed their victory to the activity of Baldwin. He vanquished the Turks when they were becoming a serious threat to his rear, and returned to the main battle to lead the decisive charge which defeated the Egyptians.\" Despite the victory the Egyptians continued to make annual raids into the Kingdom of Jeruselum with some reaching the walls of Jerusalem itself before being pushed back. The next major engagement between Fatimids and Crusaders was the Battle of Yibneh in 1123.\n\n"}
{"id": "4362359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4362359", "title": "Broadway Theatre (53rd Street)", "text": "Broadway Theatre (53rd Street)\n\nThe Broadway Theatre (formerly Universal's Colony Theatre, B.S. Moss' Broadway Theatre, Earl Carroll's Broadway Theatre, and Ciné Roma) is a Broadway theatre located in midtown Manhattan. It has a large seating capacity of 1,761, and unlike most Broadway theaters, it is actually located on Broadway, at number 1681.\n\nDesigned by architect Eugene De Rosa for Benjamin S. Moss, it opened as \"B.S. Moss's Colony Theatre\" on Christmas Day 1924 as a venue for vaudeville shows and motion pictures. The theater has operated under many names and owners. It was renamed \"Universal's Colony Theatre\", \"B.S. Moss' Broadway Theatre\", and \"Earl Carroll's Broadway Theatre\" before becoming a legitimate theater house simply called \"Broadway Theatre\" on December 8, 1930. In 1937, known as \"Ciné Roma\", it showed Italian films. For a short time during the 1950s it showed Cinerama films.\n\nOn November 18, 1928 the first Mickey Mouse cartoon released to the public, Steamboat Willie, debuted at the Colony. Producer Walt Disney returned on November 13, 1940 to debut the feature film \"Fantasia\" in Fantasound, an early stereo system. \n\nThe legitimate theater opened in 1930 with \"The New Yorkers\" by Cole Porter. Stars such as Milton Berle, Alfred Drake, José Ferrer, Eartha Kitt, Vivien Leigh, Zero Mostel, and Mae West have appeared on stage.\n\nThe Shubert Organization bought the theater in 1939 and renovated it extensively in 1956 and 1986. It has long been a popular theatre for producers of musicals because of large seating capacity, and the large stage, which is nearly sixty feet deep. Often plays that have become successful in smaller theaters have transferred to the Broadway Theatre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "210677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210677", "title": "Central Park jogger case", "text": "Central Park jogger case\n\nThe Central Park jogger case was a major news story that involved the assault and rape of Trisha Meili, a white female jogger, and attacks on others in Manhattan's Central Park on the night of April 19, 1989. The attack on the jogger left her in a coma for 12 days. Meili was a 28-year-old investment banker at the time. According to \"The New York Times\", the attack was \"one of the most widely publicized crimes of the 1980s\".\n\nOn the night of the attack, five juvenile males – four African American and one Hispanic – were apprehended in connection with a number of attacks in Central Park committed by around 30 teenage perpetrators. The defendants were tried variously for assault, robbery, riot, rape, sexual abuse, and attempted murder relating to Meili's and other attacks in the park, based solely on confessions that they said were coerced and false. Before the trial, the FBI tested the DNA of the rape kit and found it did not match to any of the tested suspects. The office of District Attorney Robert Morgenthau presented these findings to the press as \"inconclusive\". They were convicted in 1990 by juries in two separate trials. Subsequently, known as the Central Park Five, they received sentences ranging from 5 to 15 years. Four of the convictions were appealed and the convictions were affirmed by appellate courts. The defendants spent between 6 and 13 years in prison.\n\nIn 2002, Matias Reyes, a convicted murderer and serial rapist in prison, confessed to raping the jogger, and DNA evidence confirmed his guilt. He knew facts about the crime that only the offender could have known, and also said he committed the rape alone. At the time of his confession, Reyes was already serving a life sentence. He was not prosecuted for raping Meili, because the statute of limitations had passed by the time he confessed. Morgenthau suggested to the court that the five men's convictions related to the assault and rape of Meili and to attacks on others to which they had confessed be vacated (a legal position in which the parties are treated as though no trial has taken place) and withdrew the charges. Their convictions were vacated in 2002.\n\nThe five convicted men sued New York City in 2003 for malicious prosecution, racial discrimination, and emotional distress. The city refused to settle the suits for a decade under then-Mayor Michael Bloomberg, because the city's lawyers felt they would win. However, after Bill de Blasio became mayor and supported the settlement, the city settled the case for $41 million in 2014. As of December 2014, the five men were pursuing an additional $52 million in damages from New York State in the New York Court of Claims.\n\nAt 9 p.m. on the night of April 19, 1989, a group of over 30 teenagers who lived in East Harlem entered Manhattan's Central Park at an entrance in Harlem, near Central Park North. They committed several attacks, assaults, and robberies in the northernmost part of Manhattan's Central Park. According to \"The New York Times\", the attacks committed that night were \"one of the most widely publicized crimes of the 1980s\". According to a police investigation, the main suspects were gangs of teenagers who would assault strangers as part of an activity that became known as \"wilding\". New York City detectives said the term was used by the suspects themselves to describe their actions to police. This account has been disputed by some journalists, who say that it originated in a police detective's misunderstanding of the suspects' use of the phrase \"doing the wild thing\", lyrics from rapper Tone Lōc's hit song \"Wild Thing\".\n\nThe teenagers attacked and beat people as they moved south, on the park's East Drive and the 97th Street Transverse, between 9 pm and 10 pm. Between 102nd and 105th Streets they attacked several bicyclists, hurled rocks at a cab, and attacked a man who was walking, whom they knocked to the ground, assaulted, robbed, and left unconscious. A schoolteacher out for a run was severely beaten and kicked between 9:40 and 9:50. Then, at about 10 p.m. at the northwest end of the Central Park Reservoir running track, they attacked another jogger, hitting him in the back of the head with a pipe and stick. They pummeled two men into unconsciousness, hitting them with a metal pipe, stones, and punches, and kicking them in the head. A police officer testified that one male jogger, who said he had been jumped by four or five youths, was bleeding so badly he \"looked like he was dunked in a bucket of blood\".\n\nTrisha Meili was going for a run on her usual path in Central Park shortly before 9 p.m. While jogging in the park, she was knocked down, dragged or chased nearly , and violently assaulted. She was raped and almost beaten to death. About four hours later at 1:30 a.m., she was found naked, gagged, tied up, and covered in mud and blood. Meili was discovered in a shallow ravine in a wooded area of the park about 300 feet north of the 102nd Street Transverse. The first policeman who saw her said: \"She was beaten as badly as anybody I've ever seen beaten. She looked like she was tortured.\"\n\nShe was comatose for 12 days. She suffered severe hypothermia, severe brain damage, Class 4 (the most severe) hemorrhagic shock, loss of 75–80 percent of her blood, and internal bleeding. Her skull had been fractured so badly that her left eye was dislodged from its socket, which in turn was fractured in 21 places, and she suffered as well from facial fractures.\n\nThe initial medical prognosis was that Meili would succumb to her injuries and die. She was given last rites. The police initially listed the attack as a probable homicide. At best, doctors thought that she would remain in a permanent coma due to her injuries. She came out of her coma 12 days after her attack, and spent seven weeks in Metropolitan Hospital in East Harlem. When she initially emerged from her coma, she was unable to talk, read, or walk. In early June, she was transferred to Gaylord Hospital, a long-term acute care center in Wallingford, Connecticut, where she spent six months in rehabilitation. She was first able to walk again in mid-July. She returned to work eight months after the attack. Remarkably, she largely recovered, with some lingering disabilities related to balance and loss of vision. As a result of the severe trauma, she had no memory of the attack or of any events up to an hour before the assault, nor of the six weeks following the attack.\n\nThe crime was unique in the level of public outrage it provoked. New York Governor Mario Cuomo told the \"New York Post\": \"This is the ultimate shriek of alarm.\"\n\nTrisha Ellen Meili was born on June 24, 1960, in Paramus, New Jersey, and raised in affluent Upper St. Clair, Pennsylvania, a suburb of Pittsburgh. She is the daughter and youngest of three children of John Meili, a Westinghouse senior manager, and his wife Jean, a school board member. She attended Upper St. Clair High School, graduating in 1978.\n\nMeili was a Phi Beta Kappa economics major at Wellesley College, where she received a B.A. in 1982. The chairman of Wellesley's economics department said: \"She was brilliant, probably one of the top four or five students of the decade.\" In 1986, she earned an M.A. from Yale and an M.B.A. in finance from the Yale School of Management. She worked from the summer of 1986 until the attack as an associate and then a vice president in the corporate finance department and energy group of Salomon Brothers.\n\nMeili lived on East 83rd Street between York and East End Avenues on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. At the time of the attack, she was 28 years old and weighed less than 100 pounds (45 kg).\n\nIn most media accounts of the incident at that time, Meili was simply referred to as the \"Central Park Jogger\". However, two local TV stations violated media policy of not publicly identifying the victims of sex crimes and released her name in the days immediately following the attack. Two newspapers aimed at the African-American community—\"The City Sun\" and the \"Amsterdam News\"—and the black-owned talk radio station WLIB continued to do so as the case progressed. The \"Open Line\" hosts on WRKS were credited with helping continue to cover the case until the convicted youths were cleared of the crime.\n\nIn April 2003, Meili confirmed her identity to the media and published a memoir entitled \"I Am the Central Park Jogger\". She then began a career as an inspirational speaker. She also works with victims of sexual assault and brain injury in the Mount Sinai sexual assault and violence intervention program. She continues to manifest some physiological after-effects of the assault, including memory loss.\n\nThe police were dispatched at 9:30 p.m. and responded with scooters and unmarked cars. They apprehended Raymond Santana and Kevin Richardson along with other teenagers at approximately 10:15 p.m. on Central Park West and 102nd Street. Antron McCray, Yusef Salaam, and Korey Wise were brought in for questioning later, after having been identified by other youths as participants in or present at some of the attacks.\n\nThe five juveniles were interviewed for hours. Santana, McCray, and Richardson all made video statements in the presence of their respective parents or guardians. Wise made a number of statements on his own, in accordance with the law. Salaam told the police he was 16 years old and showed them identification to prove it. If a suspect had reached 16 years of age, his parents or guardians no longer had a right to accompany him during police questioning, or to refuse to permit him to answer any questions. After Salaam's mother arrived, the police stopped the questioning, but Salaam's admissions were admitted into testimony.\n\nAdditionally, before the raped jogger was found, one of the other boys the police had rounded up, sitting in the back of a police car, blurted that he \"didn't do the murder\" and named Antron McCray as the perpetrator. Kevin Richardson, who was sitting beside him, immediately agreed, saying \"Antron did it\". Later, after Raymond Santana was interrogated about the rape and while he was being driven to another precinct, he on his own exclaimed: \"I had nothing to do with the rape. All I did was feel her tits.\"\n\nNormal police procedure stipulated that the names of criminal suspects under the age of 16 were to be withheld from the media and the public. This policy was ignored when the names of the arrested juveniles were released to the press before any of them had been formally arraigned or indicted, including one 14-year-old who was ultimately not charged. The media's decision to print the names, photos, and addresses of the juvenile suspects while withholding Meili's identity was cited by the editors of the \"City Sun\" and the \"Amsterdam News\" to explain their own continued use of Meili's name in their coverage of the story.\n\nFour of the five confessed to a number of the attacks committed in the park that night, and implicated one or more of the others. None of the five said they themselves actually raped the jogger, but each confessed to being an accomplice to the rape. All five said that they themselves had only helped restrain the jogger, or touched her, while one or more others raped her. Antron McCray said that a \"Puerto Rican kid with a hoodie\" had been the one who raped the jogger. While he was incarcerated in the Rikers Island jail, Korey Wise told the older sister of a friend of his, according to her testimony, that he had only held the jogger down.\n\nYusef Salaam made verbal admissions, but refused to sign a confession or make one on videotape. However, Salaam was implicated by all of the other four, and convicted at trial. Six others were charged with committing crimes in the park that night as well. They pleaded guilty and received sentences of six months to four and a half years. On appeal, Salaam's supporters and attorneys charged that he had been held by police without access to parents or guardians. The majority appellate court decision noted that Salaam had initially lied to police in claiming to be 16, and he had backed up his claim with a transit pass that indeed (falsely, as it turned out) indicated that he was 16. When Salaam informed police of his true age, police permitted his mother to be present.\n\nAnalysis indicated that the DNA collected at the crime scene did not match any of the suspects, and that it had come from a single, as yet unknown person. Since no DNA evidence tied the suspects to the crime, the prosecution's case rested almost entirely on the confessions. One of the suspects' supporters, Reverend Calvin O. Butts of the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, told \"The New York Times\", \"The first thing you do in the United States of America when a white woman is raped is round up a bunch of black youths, and I think that's what happened here.\"\n\nAlthough the suspects (except Salaam) had confessed on videotape in the presence of a parent or guardian, they retracted their statements within weeks, claiming that they had been intimidated, lied to, and coerced into making false confessions. Salaam confessed to being present only after the detective falsely told him that fingerprints had been found on the victim's clothing. According to Salaam, \"I would hear them beating up Korey Wise in the next room\", and \"they would come and look at me and say: 'You realise you're next.' The fear made me feel really like I was not going to be able to make it out.\" While the confessions themselves were videotaped, the hours of interrogation that preceded the confessions were not.\n\nIn a first trial in August 1990, defendants Yusef Salaam, Antron McCray, and Raymond Santana were acquitted of attempted murder, but convicted of rape, assault, robbery, and riot in the attacks on the jogger and others in Central Park that night. Salaam and McCray were 15 years old, and Santana 14 years old, at the time of the crime, and they received the maximum sentence allowed for juveniles, 5–10 years in a youth correctional facility. The jury, consisting of four whites, four blacks, four Hispanics, and an Asian, deliberated for 10 days before rendering its verdict.\n\nThe second trial ended in December 1990. Kevin Richardson, 14 years old at the time of the crime, was convicted of attempted murder, rape, assault, and robbery in the attacks on the joggers and others in the park, and sentenced to 5–10 years. Korey Wise, 16 years old at the time of the crime, was acquitted of those charges, but convicted of sexual abuse, assault, and riot in the attack on the jogger and others in the park, and sentenced to 5–15 years. After the verdict, Wise shouted at the prosecutor: \"You’re going to pay for this. Jesus is going to get you. You made this up.\"\n\nMeili took the stand during the trial and said afterwards: \"I'll tell you what—I didn't feel wonderful about the boys' defense attorneys, especially the one who cross-examined me. He was right in front of my face and, in essence, calling me a slut by asking questions like 'When's the last time you had sex with your boyfriend?'\" Wise's lawyer had also asked her whether she had been assaulted by men in her life, suggested that a man she knew may have attacked her, and implied her injuries were not as severe as they had been made out to be.\n\nJurors who were interviewed after the trial said that they were not convinced by the confessions, but were impressed by the physical evidence introduced by the prosecutors: semen, grass, dirt, and two hairs \"consistent with\" the victim's hair recovered from Richardson's underpants. Four of the convictions were affirmed on appeal, while Santana did not appeal. The five defendants spent between six and 13 years in prison.\n\nThe case attracted nationwide attention and was the subject of many articles and books, both during the trials and after the convictions.\n\nIn 2001, convicted serial rapist and murderer Matias Reyes was already serving a life sentence for other crimes, but he was not at that point a suspect in the Central Park attack on Meili. Reyes met Wise in an upstate New York prison, the Auburn Correctional Facility. In 2002, Reyes declared that he was 17 years old on the night of April 19, 1989 when he assaulted and raped the jogger. He said that he had acted alone. At the time of the attack, he was working at an East Harlem bodega on Third Avenue and 102nd Street, and living in a van on the street. He provided a detailed account of the attack, details of which were corroborated by other evidence. The DNA evidence confirmed his participation in the rape, identifying him as the sole contributor of the semen found in and on the victim \"to a factor of one in 6,000,000,000 people\". DNA analysis of the strands of hair found in Richardson's underpants established that the hair did not belong to the victim. The victim had been tied up with her T-shirt in a distinctive fashion that Reyes used again on later victims.\n\nReyes was not prosecuted because the statute of limitations had passed, and thus his admissions did not place him at further risk. Reyes had been convicted of raping four other women and killing one of them, and a defense psychiatrist in his trial had concluded that Reyes was not capable of telling the truth.\n\nReyes's confession, plus DNA evidence confirming his participation in the rape, led the office of District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau to recommend vacating the convictions of the defendants originally found guilty and sentenced to prison. Supporters of the five defendants again claimed that their confessions had been coerced by police. An examination of the inconsistencies between their confessions led the prosecutor to question the veracity of their confessions. DA Morgenthau's office wrote:\n\nA comparison of the statements reveals troubling discrepancies. ... The accounts given by the five defendants differed from one another on the specific details of virtually every major aspect of the crime—who initiated the attack, who knocked the victim down, who undressed her, who struck her, who held her, who raped her, what weapons were used in the course of the assault, and when in the sequence of events the attack took place. ... In many other respects the defendants' statements were not corroborated by, consistent with, or explanatory of objective, independent evidence. And some of what they said was simply contrary to established fact.\n\nIn light of the \"extraordinary circumstances\" of the case, DA Morgenthau also recommended that the court also vacate the convictions for the other crimes that night to which the defendants had confessed. His rationale was that the defendants' confessions to the other crimes were made at the same time and in the same statements as those related to the attack on Meili. Had the newly discovered evidence been available at the original trials, it might have made the juries question whether any part of the defendants' confessions were trustworthy.\n\nMorgenthau's recommendation to vacate the convictions was strongly opposed by Linda Fairstein, who had overseen the original prosecution but had since left the District Attorney's Office. Despite the analysis conducted by the District Attorney's Office, New York City detectives maintained that the defendants had \"most likely\" been Reyes' accomplices in the assault and rape of Meili. The two doctors who treated her after she was attacked stated that some of her injuries were not consistent with Reyes' claim that he acted alone. (A forensic pathologist at the 1990 trial, and the New York City chief medical examiner in 2002, both concluded that it was impossible to tell from the victim's injuries how many people had participated in the assault.) Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly complained that Morgenthau's staff had denied his detectives access to \"important evidence\" needed to conduct a thorough investigation. This claim notwithstanding, no indictments, convictions or disciplinary actions were ever taken against District Attorney's office staff members.\n\nThe five defendants' convictions were vacated by New York Supreme Court Justice Charles J. Tejada on December 19, 2002. As Morgenthau recommended, Tejada's order vacated the convictions for all the crimes of which the defendants had been convicted. All of the defendants had completed their prison sentences at the time of Tejada's order, which only had the effect of clearing their names. One defendant, Santana, remained in jail, convicted of an unrelated later crime. His attorney said that his sentence had been extended in that case because of his conviction in the Meili attack. All five were removed from New York State's sex offender registry.\n\nIn 2002, New York City Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly commissioned a panel of three lawyers to review the case. The panel was made up of two prominent lawyers, Michael F. Armstrong, the former chief counsel to the Knapp Commission that had investigated New York City police corruption in the 1970s, and Jules Martin, a New York University Vice President, as well as Stephen Hammerman, deputy police commissioner for legal affairs. The panel issued a 43-page report in January 2003.\n\nThe panel disputed Reyes's claim that he alone had raped the jogger. It insisted there was \"nothing but his uncorroborated word\" that he acted alone. Armstrong said the panel believed \"the word of a serial rapist killer is not something to be heavily relied upon.\" The report concluded that the five men whose convictions had been vacated had \"most likely\" participated in the beating and rape of the jogger and that the \"most likely scenario\" was that \"both the defendants and Reyes assaulted her, perhaps successively.\" The report said Reyes had most likely \"either joined in the attack as it was ending or waited until the defendants had moved on to their next victims before descending upon her himself, raping her and inflicting upon her the brutal injuries that almost caused her death.\"\n\nAs to the five defendants, the report said:\n\nWe believe the inconsistencies contained in the various statements were not such as to destroy their reliability. On the other hand, there was a general consistency that ran through the defendants' descriptions of the attack on the female jogger: she was knocked down on the road, dragged into the woods, hit and molested by several defendants, sexually abused by some while others held her arms and legs, and left semiconscious in a state of undress.\n\n\"It seems impossible to say that they weren't there at all, because they knew too much,\" Armstrong said in an interview.\n\nIn 2003, Kevin Richardson, Raymond Santana Jr., and Antron McCray sued the city for $250 million for malicious prosecution, racial discrimination, and emotional distress. The city refused for a decade to settle the suits, saying that \"the confessions that withstood intense scrutiny, in full and fair pretrial hearings and at two lengthy public trials\" established probable cause. New York City lawyers under then-Mayor Michael Bloomberg felt they would win the case.\n\nWhile running for mayor of New York City in 2013, Bill de Blasio pledged to settle the case if he were to win the election. Filmmaker Ken Burns said in a November 2013 interview that Mayor–elect de Blasio had agreed to settle the lawsuit.\n\nA settlement in the case for $41 million, supported by Mayor De Blasio, was approved by a federal judge on September 5, 2014. Santana, Salaam, McCray, and Richardson will each receive $7.1 million from the city for their years in prison, while Wise will receive $12.2 million. The city did not admit to any wrongdoing in the settlement. The settlement averaged roughly $1 million for each year of imprisonment for the men.\n\nAs of December 2014, the five men were pursuing an additional $52 million in damages from New York State in the New York Court of Claims, before Judge Alan Marin. Speaking of the second suit, against the state, Santana said: \"When you have a person who has been exonerated of a crime, the city provides no services to transition him back to society. The only thing left is something like this—so you can receive some type of money so you can survive.\"\n\nKen Burns' daughter Sarah Burns and her husband David McMahon premiered \"The Central Park Five\", a documentary film about the case, at the Cannes Film Festival in May 2012. It was inspired by Sarah Burns' undergraduate thesis on racism in media coverage of the event. Sarah Burns had worked for a summer as a paralegal in the office of one of the lawyers handling a lawsuit on behalf of those convicted of assaulting and raping the jogger. Ken Burns, who has compared the case to that of the Scottsboro Boys, said he hoped the film would push the city to settle the case against it.\n\nOn September 12, 2012, attorneys for New York City subpoenaed the production company for access to the original footage in connection with its defense of the federal lawsuit brought by some of the convicted youths against the city. Celeste Koeleveld, the city's executive assistant corporation counsel for public safety, justified the subpoena on the grounds that the film had \"crossed the line from journalism to advocacy\" for the wrongly convicted men. In February 2013, U.S. Judge Ronald L. Ellis quashed the city's subpoena.\n\nOn May 1, 1989, real estate magnate Donald Trump called for the return of the death penalty when he took out full-page advertisements in all four of the city's major newspapers. Trump said he wanted the \"criminals of every age\" who were accused of beating and raping a jogger in Central Park 12 days earlier \"to be afraid\". The advertisement, which cost an estimated $85,000, said, in part, \"Mayor Koch has stated that hate and rancor should be removed from our hearts. I do not think so. I want to hate these muggers and murderers. They should be forced to suffer ... Yes, Mayor Koch, I want to hate these murderers and I always will. ... How can our great society tolerate the continued brutalization of its citizens by crazed misfits? Criminals must be told that their CIVIL LIBERTIES END WHEN AN ATTACK ON OUR SAFETY BEGINS!\" In a 1989 interview with CNN, Trump said to Larry King: \"The problem with our society is the victim has absolutely no rights and the criminal has unbelievable rights\" and that \"maybe hate is what we need if we're gonna get something done.\"\n\nLawyers for the five defendants said that Trump's advertisement had inflamed public opinion. After Reyes confessed to the crime and said he acted alone, one of the defendants' lawyers, Michael W. Warren, said, \"I think Donald Trump at the very least owes a real apology to this community and to the young men and their families.\" Protests were held outside Trump Tower in October 2002 with protestors chanting, \"Trump is a chump!\" Trump was unapologetic at the time, saying, \"I don't mind if they picket. I like pickets.\"\n\nAfter the city announced in June 2014 that they would settle with the defendants for more than $40 million, Trump wrote an opinion article for the \"New York Daily News\". He called the settlement \"a disgrace\" and said that the group's guilt was still likely: \"Settling doesn't mean innocence. ... Speak to the detectives on the case and try listening to the facts. These young men do not exactly have the pasts of angels.\"\n\nAccording to Yusef Salaam, Trump \"was the fire starter\", as \"common citizens were being manipulated and swayed into believing that we were guilty.\" Salaam and his family received death threats after papers ran Trump's full-page ad. Warren argued that Trump's advertisements played a role in securing conviction, saying that \"he poisoned the minds of many people who lived in New York City and who, rightfully, had a natural affinity for the victim,\" and that \"notwithstanding the jurors' assertions that they could be fair and impartial, some of them or their families, who naturally have influence, had to be affected by the inflammatory rhetoric in the ads.\" \"The Guardian\" wrote in 2016 that the case and the media attention reflected the racial dynamics at the time; a similar attack took place soon after in Brooklyn on May 2, 1989, involving a black woman who was raped and thrown from the roof of a four-story building, but received little media attention. Her case was brought to Trump's attention. He visited the victim in the hospital and promised to pay her medical expenses. It is not known whether Trump actually paid anything.\n\nIn October 2016, when Trump campaigned to be president, he declared that the Central Park Five were guilty and stated that their convictions should never have been vacated. Trump told CNN: \"They admitted they were guilty. The police doing the original investigation say they were guilty. The fact that that case was settled with so much evidence against them is outrageous. And the woman, so badly injured, will never be the same.\" Ann Coulter presented an argument describing the actions of the attack, Trump's ad, and the nuances of the case within the prism of DNA knowledge of the 1980s. Trump's statement attracted criticism from the Central Park Five themselves as well as others, including Republican U.S. Senator John McCain, who called Trump's responses \"outrageous statements about the innocent men in the Central Park Five case\" and cited it as one of many causes prompting him to retract his endorsement of Trump. Salaam said that he had falsely confessed out of coercion, after having been mistreated by police while in custody, deprived of food, drink or sleep for over 24 hours. Ken Burns called Trump's comments \"the height of vulgarity\" and racist.\n\n\nNews and magazine items:\n\nEditorials:\n\n"}
{"id": "24650955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24650955", "title": "Chako Paul City", "text": "Chako Paul City\n\nChako Paul City (or Shakebao) is a fictional town of 25,000 all-female residents located in northern Sweden, reports of which surfaced in Chinese press agencies Xinhua and Harbin News in 2009. Said to have been founded in 1820 by a wealthy, man-hating widow, men are banned from entering the town and most of its desperate, sex-starved inhabitants have turned to lesbianism. Immediately following the reports, millions of Chinese men swamped Swedish tourist companies with requests for information about it.\n\nClaes Bertilson, spokesperson for Sweden's Association of Local Authorities and Regions, said: “At 25,000 residents, the town would be one of the largest in northern Sweden, and I find it hard to believe that you could keep something like that a secret for more than 150 years.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20218474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20218474", "title": "Daily Telegraph Affair", "text": "Daily Telegraph Affair\n\nThe Daily Telegraph Affair was the uproar that followed the 28 October 1908 publication in British newspaper \"The Daily Telegraph\" of comments by German Kaiser Wilhelm II intended to improve German-British relations. It was a major diplomatic blunder that worsened relations and badly hurt the Kaiser's reputation; after that he played a much smaller role in deciding foreign policy. The episode had a far greater impact in Germany than overseas.\n\n\"The Telegraph\" presented what appeared to be an interview with the Kaiser. It was in fact the reworked notes by British Army officer Edward Montagu-Stuart-Wortley of conversations he had with Wilhelm II in 1907. The \"Telegraph\" sent the \"interview\" to Wilhelm II for approval, who in turn passed it to Chancellor Bernhard von Bülow, who later stated that he was too busy to edit the document, though Bülow's critics charged that he did not wish to challenge the Kaiser. Instead Bülow passed it on to the Foreign Ministry for their review, which apparently did not happen. It included wild statements and diplomatically damaging remarks, the most infamous of which was \n\nYou English are mad, mad, mad as March hares. What has come over you that you are so completely given over to suspicions quite unworthy of a great nation?\n\nWilhelm had seen the interview as an opportunity to promote his views and ideas on Anglo-German friendship, but due to his emotional outbursts during the course of the interview, he ended up further alienating not only the British, but also the French, Russians, and Japanese. He implied, among other things, that the Germans cared nothing for the British; that the French and Russians had attempted to incite Germany to intervene in the Second Boer War; and that the German naval buildup was targeted against the Japanese, not Britain.\nThe British leadership had already decided that Wilhelm was somewhat mentally disturbed, and saw this as further evidence of his unstable personality, as opposed to an indication of official German hostility.\n\nThe \"Daily Telegraph\" crisis deeply wounded Wilhelm's previously unimpaired self-confidence, and he soon suffered a severe bout of depression from which he never fully recovered. He lost much of the influence he had previously exercised in domestic and foreign policy.\n\nThe effect in Germany was quite significant; severe embarrassment was followed by serious calls for the Kaiser's abdication. The conservative Junker politician Elard von Oldenburg-Januschau was the only member of the Reichstag to defend the Kaiser throughout the Affair. Wilhelm kept a very low profile for many months after the \"Daily Telegraph\" fiasco, slumping into a deep depression, never fully recovering from the humiliation. He later exacted his revenge by forcing the resignation of the Chancellor Bülow, who had abandoned the Emperor to public scorn by not having the transcript edited before its German publication. Bülow recalled in his Memoirs that: \n\n"}
{"id": "33892048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33892048", "title": "David Bek (opera)", "text": "David Bek (opera)\n\nDavid Bek (; ) is an opera composed by Armen Tigranian based on the Raffi novel \"David Bek\" (1880–82). After the composer's death, the opera was completed by Levon Khoja-Eynatov, G. Budaghyan, and the libretto was developed by A. Ter-Hovhannisyan.\n\nThe opera describes events surrounding the historical figure of David Bek in the early 18th century and the struggle of the Armenian people against Persia. \n\n\"David Bek\" was first performed in Yerevan in 1950.\n"}
{"id": "924069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=924069", "title": "Elections in Algeria", "text": "Elections in Algeria\n\nAlgeria elects on national level a head of state - the president - and a legislature. The president is elected for a five-year term by the people. People's National Assembly (\"al-Majlis al-Sha'abi al-Watani/Assemblé Populaire Nationale\") has 462 members, elected for a five-year term in multi-seat constituencies by proportional representation. Eight seats in the national assembly are reserved for Algerians abroad. The Council of the Nation (\"Majlis al-Umma/Conseil de la Nation\") has 144 members, 96 members elected by communal councils and 48 members appointed by the president. \nAlgeria has a multi-party system, with numerous parties in which no one party often has a chance of gaining power alone, and parties must work with each other to form coalition governments. According to a US Embassy cable, the 2009 presidential elections were \"carefully choreographed and heavily controlled\", with the official turnout figure \"exaggerated\" by at least 45%.\n\nUntil 12 November 2008, presidents were limited to two terms; on this date, amendments to the constitution were passed which removed the term limits. Term limits were later reinstated in the 2016 constitution reform by President Abdelaziz Bouteflika.\n\nThe last legislative election was held in May 2017.\n\nThese elections were marked by a turnout of 35%, the lowest of any Algerian election to date (). The former ruling party, the National Liberation Front (FLN), obtained the largest number of seats, with 136. It was followed by its two governing partners, the National Rally for Democracy (RND), with 61, and the Islamist Movement of Society for Peace (MSP), with 52 seats. The latter parties gained seats at the expense of the FLN, which lost 38 seats in comparison with its result in 2002.\n\nThe radical leftist Workers' Party (PT) led by Louiza Hannoune obtained 26 seats, becoming the largest force in parliament after the governing coalition; the secularist Berber Rally for Culture and Democracy (RCD) obtained 19 seats, reentering parliament after a boycott in 2002 had left the party without representation there. The other Islamist party, Islah (split, with one wing calling for a boycott of the election), lost heavily, maintaining only 3 seats, versus 43 in the previous parliament. Independents, with 33 seats (3 more than in the previous parliament), and a number of smaller parties shared the rest of the seats.\n\nSeveral groups, notably the leftist Front of Socialist Forces, leading members of the former Islamic Salvation Front (notably Abbassi Madani and Ali Belhadj), and the newly formed organisation Rachad called on their supporters to boycott these elections. The Al-Qaeda Organization in the Islamic Maghreb also issued a video calling participation in the elections \"a great sin\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24875350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24875350", "title": "Enduro race", "text": "Enduro race\n\nAn enduro race is an inexpensive type of automobile racing that takes place mostly on oval tracks. Enduro takes its name from \"Endurance racing\" since it consists of hundreds of laps around the oval.\n\nIt involves stock based cars that had their interior and side or rear windows removed but mostly stock mechanically. A driver is disqualified if post-race inspection finds that their auto had major racing enhancements. Some enduros, often called 'jalopy enduros', feature cars rescued from a wrecking yard and repaired to barely running condition solely for the purpose of the race. In this case, the prize may be awarded to the last man standing, if all the other competitors break down during the event.\n\nEnduro racing is sometimes divided into two classes: big-car and small-car. Big-car races feature full-size (usually American) cars with larger 6- and 8-cylinder engines, while small-car races feature mid-size to sub-compact (often Japanese) 4-cylinder makes and models.\n\nThe races are usually long ones with many often 100 competitors who start three wide. The cars often take up most of the oval and they start from a standing start. It is common for races to be hundreds of laps or over 50 miles (90 km) long. Most enduro races occur at the amateur level and often feature up to $1,000 (U.S.) prize money, with some of the bigger races having prizes of $10,000. (U.S.) Events rarely are canceled even in bad weather (rain or snow).\n\nThe race is not stopped except for an emergency or if the track is completely blocked. When an auto breaks down, the race is temporarily halted to remove the driver. The auto is left in its position on the racing surface and it becomes an obstacle that the other drivers must drive around. Often the fastest car is not the winner, rather longevity is the key to winning.\n\n"}
{"id": "51686838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51686838", "title": "Famine in Yemen (2016–present)", "text": "Famine in Yemen (2016–present)\n\nSince 2016, a famine has been ongoing in Yemen which started during the Yemeni Civil War. Over 17 million of Yemen's population are at risk; over 3.3 million children and pregnant or lactating women suffer from acute malnutrition. Over 100,000 of the affected children are in Al Hudaydah Governorate, with the city of Al Hudaydah worst affected area of the province. According to the Norwegian Refugee Council, the famine in Yemen will soon reach \"biblical proportions\". The famine is being compounded by an outbreak of cholera, which is resulting in 5,000 new cases daily. Devastation of Yemeni infrastructure, health, water and sanitation systems and facilities by Saudi-led coalition air strikes led to the spread of cholera. UNICEF says that Saudi-led coalition airstrikes are deliberately targeting water systems in Yemen.\n\nAfter 5 November 2017, the famine in Yemen worsened because the Saudis, with the help of the United States, tightened their sea, air and land blockade. According to the manager of Al Hudaydah port, which is under the control of the Houthis, medicine and food cannot go to Al-Hudaydah, since Saudi-led airstrikes ruined the port's industrial cranes in August 2015. On 23 November, the blockade was allegedly partially but not fully lifted, and some humanitarian supplies were allowed into the country. However, the threat of the famine remains severe, and later independent sources denied the easing of blockade.\n\nIn October 2018, the United Nations warned that 13 million people face starvation in what could be \"the worst famine in the world in 100 years.\" The following month, a report by Save the Children estimated that 85,000 children under the age of five have died from starvation. The famine has been compared by some commentators to the \"holodomor\" in Soviet Ukraine.\n\nThe famine is the direct result of the Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen and blockade. Yemen was already the most impoverished nation in the Arabian Peninsula and the Middle East, and Al Hudaydah one of the poorest cities of Yemen, but the war and the naval blockade by the Saudi-led coalition and the United States Navy made the situation much worse. Fishing boats, the main livelihood of Al Hudaydah's residents, were destroyed by Saudi airstrikes, leaving them without any means to provide for their families. As a result, one child dies every ten minutes on average. A UN panel of experts found that Saudi Arabia is purposefully obstructing the delivery of humanitarian aid into Yemen.\n\nSaudi Arabia was reported to be deliberately targeting means of food production and distribution in Yemen by bombing farms, fishing boats, ports, food storages, food factories, and other businesses in order to exacerbate famine. These actions led to the UN accusing the Saudi-led coalition of committing war crimes and having a \"complete disregard for human life\". 1,500 schools were damaged and destroyed during Yemeni Civil War. After Saudi-backed Hadi's forces retook Mocha from Houthis they barred fishermen from working. The Union of Yemeni fishermen accused the coalition of waging war against fishermen.\n\nU.S. Senator Chris Murphy accused the United States of complicity in Yemen's humanitarian crisis, saying: \"Thousands and thousands inside Yemen today are dying. ... This horror is caused in part by our decision to facilitate a bombing campaign that is murdering children and to endorse a Saudi strategy inside Yemen that is deliberately using disease and starvation and the withdrawal of humanitarian support as a tactic.\"\n\nDoctors Without Borders has been assisting victims of the famine and the cholera outbreak, as well as providing mental health assistance to those who have been affected by the war.\n\nOn 11 December 2017, Jamie McGoldrick, the UN's humanitarian coordinator for Yemen, affirmed that 8 million in the country are in danger of famine unless access to immediate humanitarian is allowed.\n\nOn 13 December 2017, USAID administrator, Mark Andrew Green, stated that there are no signs that blockade had been in any way eased and Yemeni ports are still fully blocked.\n\nSince 5 November 2017, the Saudi-led coalition began blocking all fuel shipments to Yemen, causing farmers to abandon modern equipment like tractors and forcing hospitals to function without generators.\n\nAccording to \"The Economist\", another major cause of the famine is the popularity of the cultivation and consumption of khat, which requires a significant amount of water to grow in addition to being the most popular drug in Yemen. Khat cultivation is monopolised by the Houthi rebels.\nMore than 50,000 children in Yemen died from starvation during 2017. \n\nIn July 2018, a 25% increase of severe hunger cases in Yemen compared to 2017 has been reported.\n\nIn a September 2018 column in \"The New York Times\", Nicholas Kristof stated that the United States is supporting crimes against humanity in Yemen, adding that \"America is helping to kill, maim and starve Yemeni children. At least eight million Yemenis are at risk of starvation from an approaching famine caused not by crop failures but by our actions and those of our allies. The United Nations has called it the world’s worst humanitarian crisis, and we own it.\"\n\nIn October 2018, World Peace Foundation released a report documenting systematic targeting and destruction of food production and distribution infrastructure in Yemen by the Saudi-led coalition.\n\nOn 31 October 2018, the United States and the United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia's biggest arm suppliers, called for a ceasefire in the conflict in Yemen. A press release from the United States Secretary of State, Michael Pompeo, stated \"A cessation of hostilities and vigorous resumption of a political track will help ease the humanitarian crisis as well. It is time to end this conflict, replace conflict with compromise, and allow the Yemeni people to heal through peace and reconstruction.\" On November 10, 2018, the U.S. announced it would no longer refuel coalition aircraft operating over Yemen. The U.S. continues its backing of the Saudi-led intervention with weapons sales and intelligence sharing.\n\nIn November 2018, according to the New York Times report, 1.8 million children in Yemen are extremely subject to malnutrition.\n\n"}
{"id": "49280316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49280316", "title": "Femke Van den Driessche", "text": "Femke Van den Driessche\n\nFemke Van den Driessche (born 27 August 1996) is a Belgian former cyclo-cross cyclist, mountainbiker and road racing cyclist.\n\nAs a junior, she became national cyclo-cross champion in 2011 and mountain bike champion in 2013. In 2015, Van den Driessche won the European Cyclo-cross Championships in the women's under-23 category, and in 2016 she became Belgian champion in the same category, but both titles were stripped later.\n\nShe became the first cyclist to officially be charged with mechanical doping, which arose from an incident that occurred at the 2016 UCI Cyclo-cross World Championships. On 26 April 2016, she was retroactively banned from the sport for six years from 11 October 2015 until 10 October 2021, and all her results since that time shall be disqualified.\n\nAs a junior, she became national cyclo-cross champion in 2011 and junior national mountain bike champion in 2013. At the junior cyclocross championships she won the silver medal in 2013, winning in 2014 the silver medal at the junior national mountain bike championships. She was also active as a road cyclist and won the provincial time trial championships in the novices category in 2012 after finishing second in the same race the year before.\n\nIn the \"Middelkerke\" cyclocross race in February 2015 she finished third behind Sanne Cant and the British rider Helen Wyman.\n\nVan den Driessche competed between May and July 2015 on the road in international races in Belgium and the Netherlands. She competed in the national road race championships, BeNe Ladies Tour, Diamond Tour and Gooik-Geraardsbergen-Gooik.\n\nIn the 2015-16 cyclosross season Van den Driessche was beaten at the \"Koppenberg\" race by Jolien Verschueren in November 2015. Later that month she won her biggest race in her career, the European Cyclo-cross Championships in the women's under-23 category. In January 2016 she became Belgian cyclocross champion in the same category.\n\nVan den Driessche started as one of the favorites during the women's under-23 race at the 2016 World Championships, but failed to finish. Her race was interrupted as she had mechanical problems and electrical cables were observed hanging from her bike during a pit stop equipment check.\n\nDuring the race, the UCI checked the bicycles of Van den Driessche and found a motor in a bicycle that was in her pit. Almost six years since the first allegations of \"mechanical doping\" in cycling, this was the first time in cycling history that evidence of technological fraud had been found. The UCI had been testing a new detection system. The offence carries a minimum six-month suspension and a fine of between SFr20,000 and 200,000. Van den Driessche denies she intended to cheat, and maintains that the bicycle was owned by a friend and was taken to the pit in error. In the days following the incident, the friend who was claimed by Van den Driessche, Nico Van Muylder, said to \"Het Nieuwsblad\" that the bike was his. However, UCI technical regulation 12.1.013, bars the presence of motors on the bike, regardless of intent or whether the bike was actually used, going to be used or even belonged to anyone on the team. Riders are responsible under strict liability.\n\nIn a clip that was later analyzed from the \"Koppenbergcross\" cyclo-cross race in November 2015 some moments look amiss. At one point she pulls away from the break on a cobble climb; apparently with little effort and still sitting on the saddle while others look laboured. At another point where she misses a couple of pedal strokes as she fiddles with her gears, it doesn't seem to take too much from her momentum despite being on an incline at the time.\n\nOn 31 January 2016, Brian Cookson of the UCI held a press conference. He said “It is no secret that a motor was found.” He used three different phrases to characterize use of the motor as \"technological doping\", \"mechanical doping\" and \"technological fraud\". 'Legal' proceedings would be commenced, which could result in sanctions of the rider, team or staff. Possible penalties for the rider can be fines up to SFr200,000, and a lifetime ban from the sport. the team could be fined up to SFr1 million. The matter will be heard by an independent Disciplinary Commission that is charged to hear evidence from \"all relevant parties\" and render its decision on whether a rule violation is proved and the amount of sanctions, if any, for breaches of the UCI Regulations.\n\nThe degree of her culpability given her age, experience, and the responsibility of her team is an issue. Size of any sanction is controversial, as some riders are deeply affronted by the alleged infraction. Claims have been made that she would receive the minimum sanction, as the weight of full sanctions might be unjust. That matter was referred to Philippe Muyters, the Flemish Minister for Sport. Etixx team manager Patrick Lefevere thought a \"lifetime suspension for the cheat\" was appropriate.\n\n\"I never thought that such schemes were possible. It's a scandal that Femke's entourage have deceived the Belgian federation,\" he said.\nHer sponsors expressed outrage at her breach of trust, and said that they would start their own legal actions. \"We thought that we had in Femke a great talent in the making but it seems that she fooled everyone.\" One cyclocross veteran, Sven Nys expressed shock and disappointment. Managing director Andrea Gastaldello, said he was \"stunned\" by the news that Van den Driessche competed with a concealed motor in her Wilier Triestina bike, \"Our company will take legal action against the athlete and against any (person) responsible for this very serious matter to safeguard the reputation and image of the company,\" he said.\n\nOn 14 March 2016, Van den Driessche announced she would not be defending herself in front of the disciplinary committee on March 15. She cited the heavy suspension demanded by the prosecution and the prohibitive cost of such a procedure in Switzerland. She said she was being denied the chance of getting a fair trial, as she had already been tried and convicted in the court of public opinion. Van den Driessche also announced her immediate retirement from cycling.\n\nOn 26 April 2016, it was announced by the UCI that Driessche had been banned for six years and would forfeit all results since 10 October 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32372967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32372967", "title": "Festival of Nations (St. Louis)", "text": "Festival of Nations (St. Louis)\n\nFestival of Nations is a free, multicultural public event, held yearly, organized by the International Institute of St. Louis in Tower Grove Park, a city park on Grand Boulevard, featuring food booths of many ethnic cuisines, dance, music, arts, crafts and an international bazaar.\n\nThe International Institute of St. Louis Organized the International May Festival in St. Louis in 1920. Approximately 2,000 people attended the May Festival. The May Festival was one of the earliest multicultural celebrations in the US and today's Festival of Nations originated from the May Festival. \n\nThe International Institute of St. Louis is involved in building positive relationships between new comers (immigrants) and long time Americans. The institute provides various services including teaching English, resettling refugees, helping new comers find jobs and providing translation & other servies. \n\nThe celebrations were held on Aug 28 & 29th in Tower Grove Park. An estimated 140,000 visitors attended. \n\nThe celebrations are to be held on Aug 27 & 28th in Tower Grove Park. 125 community organizations are expected to participate. Music and dance by traditional ethnic artists all over the world will be performed. 50 food booths and 40 gift booths will be selling food and gifts. \n\n"}
{"id": "18769312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18769312", "title": "Front (weekly)", "text": "Front (weekly)\n\nFront was an illustrated weekly newspaper published by the \"Military Publishing and Press Center\" (\"Vojnoizdavački i novinski centar\") of the Yugoslav People's Army.\n\nThe paper was first published on 25 February 1945. Serving as a reporting tool for the Syrmian Front and other areas of military operations during final phases of the Yugoslav liberation war. It was published in all of the languages of the newly re-constituted country.\n\nThe publisher's address was: \"Nedeljni Ilustrovani List Front\" (Weekly Illustrated Paper – Front), 11001 Beograd, Ulica Svetozara Markovića 70.\n\nIn 1975, by edict of the President of the Republic, Marshal Josip Broz (Tito), \"Front\" was awarded the Order of the Brotherhood and Unity with golden wreath (I. rank).\n\n"}
{"id": "185081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185081", "title": "Ghost Dance", "text": "Ghost Dance\n\nThe Ghost Dance (Caddo: Nanissáanah, also called the Ghost Dance of 1890) was a new religious movement incorporated into numerous Native American belief systems. According to the teachings of the Northern Paiute spiritual leader Wovoka (renamed Jack Wilson), proper practice of the dance would reunite the living with spirits of the dead, bring the spirits to fight on their behalf, make the white colonists leave, and bring peace, prosperity, and unity to Native American peoples throughout the region. \n\nThe basis for the Ghost Dance is the circle dance, a traditional dance done by many Native Americans. The Ghost Dance was first practiced by the Nevada Northern Paiute in 1889. The practice swept throughout much of the Western United States, quickly reaching areas of California and Oklahoma. As the Ghost Dance spread from its original source, different tribes synthesized selective aspects of the ritual with their own beliefs.\n\nThe Ghost Dance was associated with Wilson's (Wovoka's) prophecy of an end to white expansion while preaching goals of clean living, an honest life, and cross-cultural cooperation by Indians. Practice of the Ghost Dance movement was believed to have contributed to Lakota resistance to assimilation under the Dawes Act. In the Wounded Knee Massacre in December 1890, United States Army forces killed at least 153 Miniconjou and Hunkpapa from the Lakota people. The Lakota variation on the Ghost Dance tended towards millenarianism, an innovation that distinguished the Lakota interpretation from Jack Wilson's original teachings. The Caddo still practice the Ghost Dance today.\n\nThe Northern Paiutes living in Mason Valley, in what is now the U.S. state of Nevada, were known collectively as the Tövusi-dökadö (\"Tövusi-\": \"\"Cyperus\" bulb\" and \"dökadö\": \"eaters\") at the time of European contact. The Northern Paiute community at this time was thriving upon a subsistence pattern of fishing, hunting wild game, and foraging for pine nuts and roots such as \"Cyperus esculentus\".\n\nThe Tövusi-dökadö during this period lacked any permanent political organisation or officials, and tended to follow various spiritual leaders and community organizers. Community events centered on the observance of seasonal ceremonies such as harvests or hunting. In 1869, Hawthorne Wodziwob, a Paiute man, organized a series of community dances to announce a vision. He spoke of a journey to the land of the dead and of promises made to him by the souls of the recently deceased. They promised to return to their loved ones within a period of three to four years.\n\nWodziwob's peers accepted this vision, likely due to his reputable status as a healer. He urged the populace to dance the common circle dance as was customary during a time of celebration. He continued preaching this message for three years with the help of a local \"weather doctor\" named Tavibo, father of Jack Wilson.\n\nPrior to Wodziwob's religious movement, a devastating typhoid fever epidemic struck in 1867. This and other European diseases killed approximately one-tenth of the total population, resulting in widespread psychological and emotional trauma. The disruption brought disorder to the economic system and society. Many families were prevented from continuing their nomadic lifestyle.\n\nA round dance is a circular community dance held, usually around an individual who leads the ceremony. Round dances may be ceremonial or purely social. Usually the dancers are accompanied by a group of singers who may also play hand drums in unison. The dancers join hands to form a large circle. The dancers move to their left with a side-shuffle step to reflect the long-short pattern of the drum beat, bending their knees to emphasize the pattern.\n\nDuring his studies of the Pacific Northwest tribes the anthropologist Leslie Spier used the term \"prophet dances\" to describe ceremonial round dances where the participants seek trance, exhortations and prophecy. Spier studied peoples of the Columbia plateau (a region including Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and parts of western Montana). By the time of his studies the only dances he was allowed to witness were social dances or ones that had already incorporated Christian elements, making investigation of the round dance's origin complicated.\n\nJack Wilson, the prophet otherwise known as \"Wovoka\", was believed to have had a vision during a solar eclipse on January 1, 1889. It was reportedly not his first time experiencing a vision; but as a young adult, he claimed that he was then better equipped, spiritually, to handle this message. Jack had received training from an experienced holy man under his parents' guidance after they realized that he was having difficulty interpreting his previous visions. Jack was also training to be a \"weather doctor\", following in his father's footsteps. He was known throughout Mason Valley as a gifted and blessed young leader. Preaching a message of universal love, he often presided over circle dances, which symbolized the sun's heavenly path across the sky.\n\nAnthropologist James Mooney conducted an interview with Wilson prior to 1892. Mooney confirmed that his message matched that given to his fellow Indians. This study compared letters between tribes. According to Mooney, Wilson's letter said he stood before God in heaven and had seen many of his ancestors engaged in their favorite pastimes, and that God showed Wilson a beautiful land filled with wild game and instructed him to return home to tell his people that they must love each other and not fight. He also stated that Jesus was being reincarnated on earth in 1892, that the people must work, not steal or lie, and that they must not engage in the old practices of war or the traditional self-mutilation practices connected with mourning the dead. He said that if his people abided by these rules, they would be united with their friends and family in the other world, and in God's presence, there would be no sickness, disease, or old age.\n\nMooney writes that Wilson was given the Ghost Dance and commanded to take it back to his people. He preached that if the five-day dance was performed in the proper intervals, the performers would secure their happiness and hasten the reunion of the living and deceased. Wilson said that the Creator gave him powers over the weather and that he would be the deputy in charge of affairs in the western United States, leaving current President Harrison as God's deputy in the East. Jack claims that he was then told to return home and preach God's message.\n\nJack Wilson claimed to have left the presence of God convinced that if every Indian in the West danced the new dance to \"hasten the event\", all evil in the world would be swept away, leaving a renewed Earth filled with food, love, and faith. Quickly accepted by his Paiute brethren, the new religion was termed \"Dance In A Circle\". Because the first European contact with the practice came by way of the Lakota, their expression \"Spirit Dance\" was adopted as a descriptive title for all such practices. This was subsequently translated as \"Ghost Dance\".\n\nThrough Indians and some white settlers, Wilson's message spread across much of the western portion of the United States. Early in the religious movement, many tribes sent members to investigate the self-proclaimed prophet, while other communities sent delegates only to be cordial. Regardless of their initial motivations, many left as believers and returned to their homeland preaching his message. The Ghost Dance was also investigated by many Mormons from Utah, for whom the concepts of the Indian prophet were familiar and often accepted. While many followers of the Ghost Dance believed Wovoka to be a teacher of pacifism and peace, others did not.\n\nAn elaboration of the Ghost Dance concept was the development of ghost shirts, which were special clothing that warriors could wear. They were rumored to repel bullets through spiritual power. It is uncertain where this belief originated. Scholars believe that in 1890 chief Kicking Bear introduced the concept to his people, the Lakota, while James Mooney argued that the most likely source is the Mormon temple garment (which Mormons believe protect the pious wearer from evil).\n\nThe Lakota interpretation drew from their traditional idea of a \"renewed Earth\" in which \"all evil is washed away\". This Lakota interpretation included the removal of all European Americans from their lands:\n\nIn February 1890, the United States government broke a Lakota treaty by adjusting the Great Sioux Reservation of South Dakota (an area that formerly encompassed the majority of the state) and breaking it up into five smaller reservations. The government was accommodating white homesteaders from the eastern United States; in addition, it intended to \"break up tribal relationships\" and \"conform Indians to the white man's ways, peaceably if they will, or forcibly if they must\". On the reduced reservations, the government allocated family units on plots for individual households. The Lakota were expected to farm and raise livestock, and to send their children to boarding schools. With the goal of assimilation, the schools taught English and Christianity, as well as American cultural practices. Generally, they forbade inclusion of Indian traditional culture and language.\n\nTo help support the Lakota during the period of transition, the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) was to supplement the Lakota with food and to hire white farmers as teachers for the people. The farming plan failed to take into account the difficulty that Lakota farmers would have in trying to cultivate crops in the semi-arid region of South Dakota. By the end of the 1890 growing season, a time of intense heat and low rainfall, it was clear that the land was unable to produce substantial agricultural yields. Unfortunately, this was also the time when the government's patience with supporting the so-called \"lazy Indians\" ran out. They cut rations for the Lakota in half. With the bison having been virtually eradicated a few years earlier, the Lakota were at risk of starvation.\n\nThe people turned to the Ghost Dance ritual, which frightened the supervising agents of the BIA. Those who had been residing in the area for a long time recognized that the ritual was often held shortly before battle was to occur. Kicking Bear was forced to leave Standing Rock, but when the dances continued unabated, Agent James McLaughlin asked for more troops. He claimed the Hunkpapa spiritual leader Sitting Bull was the real leader of the movement. A former agent, Valentine McGillycuddy, saw nothing extraordinary in the dances and ridiculed the panic that seemed to have overcome the agencies, saying: \"The coming of the troops has frightened the Indians. If the Seventh-Day Adventists prepare the ascension robes for the Second Coming of the Savior, the United States Army is not put in motion to prevent them. Why should not the Indians have the same privilege? If the troops remain, trouble is sure to come.\"\n\nNonetheless, thousands of additional U.S. Army troops were deployed to the reservation. On December 15, 1890, Sitting Bull was arrested for failing to stop his people from practicing the Ghost Dance. During the incident, one of Sitting Bull's men, Catch the Bear, fired at Lieutenant \"Bull Head\", striking his right side. He instantly wheeled and shot Sitting Bull, hitting him in the left side, between the tenth and eleventh ribs; this exchange resulted in deaths on both sides, including that of Sitting Bull.\n\nDecember 29, 1890 - Spotted Elk (Lakota: \"Unpan Glešká\" – also known as Big Foot) was a Miniconjou leader on the U.S. Army's list of 'trouble-making' Indians. He was stopped while \"en route\" to convene with the remaining Lakota chiefs. U.S. Army officers forced him to relocate with his people to a small camp close to the Pine Ridge Agency. Here the soldiers could more closely watch the old chief. That evening, December 28, the small band of Lakota erected their tipis on the banks of Wounded Knee Creek. The following day, during an attempt by the officers to collect weapons from the band, one young, deaf Lakota warrior refused to relinquish his arms. A struggle followed in which somebody's weapon discharged into the air. One U.S. officer gave the command to open fire, and the Lakota responded by taking up previously confiscated weapons; the U.S. forces responded with carbine firearms and several rapid-fire light-artillery (Hotchkiss) guns mounted on the overlooking hill. When the fighting had concluded, 25 U.S. soldiers lay dead, many killed by friendly fire. Among the 153 dead Lakota, most were women and children. Following the massacre, chief Kicking Bear officially surrendered his weapon to General Nelson A. Miles.\n\nOutrage in the eastern United States emerged as the public learned about the deaths. The U.S. government had insisted on numerous occasions that the Indian had already been successfully pacified. Many Americans felt the U.S. Army actions were unduly harsh; some related the massacre at Wounded Knee Creek to the \"ungentlemanly act of kicking a man when he is already down\". Public uproar played a role in the reinstatement of the previous treaty's terms, including full rations and more monetary compensation for lands taken away.\n\nTwenty U.S. soldiers received Medals of Honor for their actions (some sources state the number as 18 or 23). American Indian and human rights activists have referred to these as \"Medals of Dis-Honor\" and called for the awards to be rescinded, but none of them have ever been revoked.\n\nFollowing the Wounded Knee Massacre, interest and participation in the Ghost Dance movement dropped dramatically for fear of continued violence against practitioners. Like most Indian ceremonies, it became clandestine rather than dying out completely.\n\nDespite the widespread acceptance of the Ghost Dance movement, Navajo leaders described the Ghost Dance as \"worthless words\" in 1890. Three years later, James Mooney arrived at the Navajo reservation in northern Arizona during his study of the Ghost Dance movement and found the Navajo never incorporated the ritual into their society.\n\nKehoe believed the movement did not gain traction with the tribe due to the Navajo's higher levels of social and economic satisfaction at the time. Another factor was cultural norms among the Navajo, which inculcated a fear of ghosts and spirits, based on religious beliefs.\n\nThe Wounded Knee massacre was not the end of the Ghost Dance religious movement. Instead, it went underground. Wovoka continued to spread its message, along with Kicking Bear, Short Bull and other spiritual leaders.\n\nDuring the Wounded Knee incident of 1973, Lakota men and women, including Mary Brave Bird, did the ghost dance ceremony on the site where their ancestors had been killed. In her book, Ms. Brave Bird writes that ghost dances continue as private ceremonies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6190868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6190868", "title": "Hedgpeth Festival", "text": "Hedgpeth Festival\n\nHedgpeth was an alternative/indie music festival held in Twin Lakes, Wisconsin, on July 28/29, 2006.\n\nThe event is named for one of its organizers, Jeff Hedgpeth. The festival was held at Shadow Hill Ranch.\n\nThe groups that performed at Hedgpeth 2006 were as follows:\n\nFollowing the 2006 edition, Hedgpeth's future was uncertain, but organizers were optimistic even after the slightly lower than expected turnout. However, the promoters announced the event would not be continued after it lost an estimated $100,000 due to lack of ticket sales.\n\n"}
{"id": "48608614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48608614", "title": "Helena Modrzejewska National Stary Theater in Kraków", "text": "Helena Modrzejewska National Stary Theater in Kraków\n\nThe Helena Modrzejewska National Stary Theater in Kraków (Polish: \"Narodowy Stary Teatr im. Heleny Modrzejewskiej\") is one of the oldest public stages in Poland and a national institution of culture, first opened in 1781. It was named after renowned Shakespearean actress Helena Modrzejewska.\n\nThe Theatre was created by Feliks Oraczewski, a member of the Polish Parliament (Sejm), and the actor Mateusz Witkowski. On October 17, 1781 the Cracow city authorities gave Witkowski permission to \"perform comedy under the condition that he pay fifty Polish zloty a month to the municipal treasury. \"In 1798, Jacek Kluszewski,the starosta of Brzeg, took over the theater and converted two of his own buildings the corner of Szczepański Square and Jagiellonian Street into its permanent home. The Stary Theatre continues to operate at this location to this day. In 2016, the MICET Interactive Museum / Theatre Education Center opened in the theatre building’s 13th century cellars.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "50453873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50453873", "title": "International Charter 'Space and Major Disasters'", "text": "International Charter 'Space and Major Disasters'\n\nThe International Charter \"Space and Major Disasters\" is a non-binding charter which provides for the charitable and humanitarian retasked acquisition of and transmission of space satellite data to relief organizations in the event of major disasters. Initiated by the European Space Agency and the French space agency CNES after the UNISPACE III conference held in Vienna, Austria in July 1999, it officially came into operation on November 1, 2000 after the Canadian Space Agency signed onto the charter on October 20, 2000. Their space assets were then, respectively, ERS and ENVISAT, SPOT and Formosat, and RADARSAT.\n\nThe assorted satellite assets of various corporate, national, and international space agencies and entities provide for humanitarian coverage which is wide albeit contingent. First activated for floods in northeast France in December 2001, the Charter has since brought space assets into play for numerous floods, earthquakes, oil spills, forest fires, tsunamis, major snowfalls, volcanic eruptions, hurricanes and landslides, and furthermore (and unusually) for the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 and for the 2014 West Africa Ebola outbreak. As of 2015, fifteen space agencies are signatories; dozens of satellites are available with image resolutions ranging from per pixel to about per pixel. As of August 2018, it had had 579 activations, from 125 countries, and had 17 members, which contributed 34 satellites. It won the prestigious Pecora award in 2017. \n\n\nAs of 2012 the live satellites and their instrumentalities were: The high resolution and very high resolution radar sensors of ENVISAT (decommissioned in April), RISAT-1, RADARSAT-1 & 2, TerraSAR-X and TanDEM-X; the high resolution and very high resolution optical sensors of SPOT satellites4 & 5, Pleiades, Landsat 5 & 7, PROBA1, UK-DMC 2, KOMPSAT-2, IRS-P5, Resourcesat-2, Oceansat-2, Cartosat-2, IMS-1, and RapidEye; the medium and low resolution optical sensors of POES, GOES, and SAC-C. Furthermore, specific agreements with other entities, including corporations, allow the Charter access to additional products of high and very high resolution from satellites such as the Formosat series, GeoEye, IKONOS, QuickBird, and WorldView.\n\nIn 2014 the charter was activated 41 times for disasters in 30 countries. In that year the live satellites and their instrumentalities included: The high and very high resolution radar sensors of Risat-1, RADARSAT-2, TerraSAR-X, and TanDEM-X and Sentinel-1A; the optical high and very high resolution sensors of UK-DMC 2, Landsat 7 and 8, SPOT series 5, 6, and 7, Pléiades 1A and 1B, PROBA 1, SJ-9A, GF-1, KOMPSAT-2, IRS-P5 (Cartosat-1), Cartosat-2, Resourcesat-2, Oceansat-2, RapidEye, Kanopus-V, and Resurs-P, and the HDTV camera mounted the Kibo module of the International Space Station; and the medium and low optical sensors of POES, GOES, FY-3C, the Metop series, the first two Meteosat generations, and Meteor-M. Specific agreements with other entities allow for the usage of the Formosat, GeoEye, IKONOS, QuickBird, and WorldViews satellites, which have high and very high resolution. Archival data from defunct satellites such as ALOS, ENVISAT, ERS, CBERS, IRS-1C, Astra 1D, IRS P4, P6, IMS-1, RADARSAT-1, SAC-C, SPOT 1-3 & 4, UK-DMC, Landsat-5 and NigeriaSat are also available.\n\nThis is very much a partial list; the 500th activation of the Charter was on 1 August 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "700846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=700846", "title": "L'Escalade", "text": "L'Escalade\n\nL'Escalade, or Fête de l'Escalade (from escalade, the act of scaling defensive walls), was a notable attempt by Catholic Savoy to conquer Protestant Geneva, now commemorated by an annual festival each December celebrating the defeat of the surprise attack by troops sent by Charles Emmanuel I, Duke of Savoy during the night of 11–12 December 1602. The celebrations and other commemorative activities are usually held on 12 December or the closest weekend. \n\nAfter fending off the Savoyard attack, with the help of Swiss Protestant cities, Geneva joined the Swiss Confederation.\n\nFor years, the duke coveted the wealth of the self-governing, independent, republican, Protestant city-state. When Charles Emmanuel came to the throne of the House of Savoy in 1580, he longed to make Geneva his capital north of the Alps and crush Protestantism. Pope Clement VIII offered encouragement; in 1602 he appointed as Catholic bishop of Geneva Francis de Sales, an effective preacher who had recently been successful in re-Catholicizing the Chablais district of Savoy on the south side of Lake Geneva.\n\nOn December 11 and December 12 (Old Style) 1602 — the darkest night of the year — the forces of the Duke of Savoy, under the command of the seigneur d'Albigny, and those of Charles Emmanuel's brother-in-law, Philip III of Spain, launched an attack on the city-state of Geneva. The troops marched along the Arve River at night and assembled at Plainpalais, just outside the walls of Geneva, at 2 o'clock in the morning. The original plan was to send in a group of commandos to open the city gate and let the other troops in. The Geneva citizens defeated the invaders by preventing them from scaling the wall using cannon fire, and by fighting in the streets against the few who managed to climb over (a climb in French is an \"escalade\"). The alarm was raised, the church bells were rung and the Genevese were alerted. The night guard Isaac Mercier succeeded in cutting the rope holding up the portcullis, thus foiling the plan to open the main city gate. The populace fought alongside their town militia and the duke's 2000-plus mercenaries were defeated. The Genevese lost 18 men in the fighting; the Savoyards suffered 54 fatalities and the troops had to retreat. Thirteen invaders who had been taken prisoner, including several well-born gentlemen, were summarily hanged the following day as brigands, since they could not be treated as prisoners of war, peace having been repeatedly sworn on the part of Savoy.\n\nAccording to Genevese legend, Catherine Cheynel (\"Mère Royaume\"), originally from Lyon and the wife of Pierre Royaume, a mother of 14 children, seized a large cauldron of hot soup and poured it on the attackers. The Royaume family lived just above the La Monnaie town gate. The heavy cauldron of boiling soup landed on the head of a Savoyard attacker, killing him. The commotion that this caused also helped to rouse the townsfolk to defend the city.\n\nAfter the defeat (and after a retaliation campaign by Geneva against Savoy, known as the contre-Escalade, that failed to meet its objectives), the Duke of Savoy accepted a lasting peace, sealed by the Treaty of St. Julien of July 12, 1603.\n\nThe story of L'Escalade is told in a song called \"Cé qu'è l'ainô\", written in a Franco-Provençal dialect around 1603 by an unknown author. The song has become the \"national\" anthem of Geneva; while the complete version comprises 68 stanzas, only four of them are usually sung.\n\nIt was also celebrated in verse by Samuel Chappuzeau in his \"Genève Délivrée\", the manuscript of which was presented to Geneva after his death in 1701.\n\nAlthough the armed conflict actually took place after midnight, in the early morning on December 12, celebrations and other commemorative activities are usually held on December 11 or the closest weekend. Celebrations include a large \"marmite\" (cauldron) made of chocolate and filled with marzipan vegetables and candies wrapped in the Geneva colours of red and gold. It is customary for the eldest and youngest in the room to smash the \"marmite\", while reciting, \"\"Ainsi périrent les ennemis de la République!\" \" (Thus perished the enemies of the Republic), referring to how Catherine Cheynel, better known as \"\"Mère Royaume\",\" poured boiling hot vegetable soup on soldiers climbing up the walls of the city. Other traditions include mulled wine, a large serving of soup, and children in various types of costumes knocking on people's doors and singing Escalade songs for money. It is also common for children in school to prepare vegetable soup, which is served to parents and families that night. Teenagers tend to throw eggs, shaving cream, and flour at each other as part of the celebration. The high school students parade together by first going to \"conquer\" each other and end up in the central square of the old town after walking through the \"rues basses\" to the plaine de Plainpalais and back.\n\nThere is also a parade on Friday evening: the names of the eighteen who died—Jacques Billon finally died of his wounds a year later—are called out, one after another. The historical procession on Sunday features more or less 800 people (from old Genevese families) with historical costumes, the remaining fragments of the ladders used by the Savoyards, and horses. This parade - organised since 1926 by the Compagnie de 1602 - attracts every year generally tens of thousand spectators.\n\nSince 1978 there has been another element to the celebration of the Escalade, with a road running event being held the weekend of or preceding the night of the 11th (depending on whether or not the 11th falls on a weekend). The run traditionally starts in the \"parc des Bastions\" and goes through the Old City of Geneva, before finishing near the start again. It is one of the most significant annual events in Geneva. To partake in the Escalade race, people register and pay online or by mail. When registering, people have to specify which race they want to run. There are options for male races and female races for different age groups classified under year of birth and in some cases with which institution (for example with Ecolint at different grade levels). Besides the regular runs, there are three other major races: the Duke's race which is exclusive for adults and it costs 45 CHF, the Walking and Nordic Walking races for the ages of 10+ cost 27 CHF and the Marmite adults and youth races, in which participants wear costumes, which cost 26 CHF and 16 CHF respectively. In recent years, participants in the races started wearing group T-shirts and creative costumes to the run, thus making it a continuation of the parade. After each race the results are announced and the best results of each race get published in the Tribune de Genève.\n\n"}
{"id": "14690411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14690411", "title": "Laboratory animal sources", "text": "Laboratory animal sources\n\nAnimals used by laboratories for testing purposes are largely supplied by dealers who specialize in selling them to universities, medical and veterinary schools, and companies that provide contract animal-testing services. It is comparatively rare that animals are procured from sources other than specialized dealers, as this poses the threat of introducing disease into a colony and confounding any data collected. However, suppliers of laboratory animals may include breeders who supply purpose-bred animals, businesses that trade in wild animals, and dealers who supply animals sourced from pounds, auctions, and newspaper ads. Animal shelters may also supply the laboratories directly. Some animal dealers, termed Class B dealers, have been reported to engage in kidnapping pets from residences or illegally trapping strays, a practice dubbed as bunching.\n\nAll laboratories using vertebrate lab animals in the United States are required by law to have a licensed veterinarian on staff and to adhere to the NIH Guide for the Use and Care of Laboratory Animals, which further stipulates that all protocols, including the sources for obtaining the animals, must be reviewed by an independent committee.\n\nClass A breeders are licensed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to sell animals bred specifically for research. In July 2004, there were 4,117 licensed Class A dealers in the United States.\n\nClass B dealers are licensed by the USDA to buy animals from \"random sources\". This refers to animals who were not purpose-bred or raised on the dealers' property. Animals from \"random sources\" come from auctions, pounds, newspaper ads (including \"free-to-home\" ads), and some may be stolen pets or illegally trapped strays. As of February 2013, there were only seven active Class B dealers remaining in the United States. However, these sources round up \"thousands\" of cats and dogs each year for sale.\n\nAnimals are also sold directly to laboratories by shelters. According to the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), Iowa, Minnesota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, and Utah require publicly funded shelters to surrender animals to any Class B dealer who asks for them. Fourteen states prohibit the practice, and the remainder either have no relevant legislation, or permit the practice in certain circumstances.\n\nAccording to a paper presented to the American Society of Criminology in 2006, an illegal economy in the theft of pets, mostly dogs, has emerged in the U.S. in recent years, with the thieves known as \"bunchers\". The bunchers sell the animals to Class B animal dealers, who pay $25 per animal. The dealers then sell the animals to universities, medical and veterinary schools, and companies providing animal-testing services. Lawrence Salinger and Patricia Teddlie of Arkansas State University told the conference that these institutions pay up to $500 for a stolen animal, who is often accompanied by forged documents and fake health certificates. Salinger and Teddlie argue that the stolen animals may affect research results, because they come from unknown backgrounds and have an uncertain health profile. Conversely the Foundation for Biomedical Research claim that pets being stolen for animal research is largely an urban myth and that the majority of stolen dogs are most likely used for dog fighting.\n\nThe largest Class B dealer in dogs in the U.S. was investigated for bunching by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) in 2005. Chester C. Baird, of Martin Creek Kennels and Pat's Pine Tree Farms in Willifore, Arkansas, lost his licence after being convicted of 100 counts of animal abuse and neglect, and of stealing pets for laboratories and forging documentation. The criminal charges were filed after an eight-year investigation by an animal protection group, Last Chance for Animals. The group filmed over 72 hours of undercover video at Martin Creek Kennels, which included footage of dogs being shot. In 2006, HBO produced Dealing Dogs, a documentary film based on this footage.\n\nBaird's customers included the University of Missouri, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, and Oregon State University. According to the Humane Society of the United States, Missouri was experiencing such a high rate of pet theft that animal protection groups had dubbed it the \"Steal Me State\". In a 2008 article, Last Chance for Animals estimated that around two million pets are stolen in the U.S. each year.\n\nAnimal dealers in the European Union (EU) are governed by Council Directive 86/609/EEC. This directive sets forth specific requirements regulating the supply and breeding of animals intended for use by testing facilities within the EU. The directive defines 'breeding establishment' as a facility engaged in breeding animals for their use in experiments, and 'supplying establishment' as a facility other than a breeding establishment, which supplies animals for experiments.\n\nArticle 15 of the directive requires supplying establishments to obtain animals only from approved breeding or other supplying establishments, \"unless the animal has been lawfully imported and is not a feral or stray animal.\" Nonetheless, the directive allows\nexemptions from this sourcing requirement \"under arrangements determined by the authority.\"\n\nAnimal rights supporters have raised concerns that these rules allow strays and pets to be used for experimentation, either by exemptions or by importing animals from non-EU countries, where the rules may be more lax.\n\nIn 2010, a new EU directive was published on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes, repealing the old directive 86/609/EEC on January 1, 2013, with the exception of Article 13 (statistical information on the use of animals in experiments) which has been repealed on May 10, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "29751544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29751544", "title": "List of coups d'état and coup attempts since 2010", "text": "List of coups d'état and coup attempts since 2010\n\nThis is a list of \"coups d'état\" and coup attempts since 2010 which either succeeded or failed. A list of revolutions and rebellions can be found here: list of revolutions and rebellions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14334546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14334546", "title": "List of events held in Štark Arena", "text": "List of events held in Štark Arena\n\nThis is the list of events held and announced to be held in the Štark Arena.\n\n</div>\n\n"}
{"id": "23666772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23666772", "title": "List of food contamination incidents", "text": "List of food contamination incidents\n\nFood may be accidentally or deliberately contaminated by microbiological, chemical or physical hazards.\n\nIn contrast to microbiologically caused foodborne illness, the link between exposure and effect of chemical hazards in foods is usually complicated by cumulative low doses and the delay between exposure and the onset of symptoms. Chemical hazards include environmental contaminants, food ingredients (such as iodine), heavy metals, mycotoxins, natural toxins, improper storage, processing contaminants, and veterinary medicines.\n\nIncidents have occurred because of poor harvesting or storage of grain, use of banned veterinary products, industrial discharges, human error and deliberate adulteration and fraud.\n\nAn \"incident\" of chemical food contamination may be defined as an episodic occurrence of adverse health effects in humans (or animals that might be consumed by humans) following high exposure to particular chemicals, or instances where episodically high concentrations of chemical hazards were detected in the food chain, and traced back to a particular event.\n\nInformation on the impacts of these incidents is fragmentary and unsystematic, ranging from thousands of dollars to meet the cost of monitoring analysis, to many millions of dollars due to court prosecutions, bankruptcy, product disposal, compensation for revenue loss, damage to brand or reputation, or loss of life.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31176602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31176602", "title": "List of rugby league competitions", "text": "List of rugby league competitions\n\nThe following is a list of notable rugby league competitions that are still currently in existence. This includes both international tournaments played by national Test teams and also domestic club and provincial competitions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Malta\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56683615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56683615", "title": "Mass mortality event", "text": "Mass mortality event\n\nA mass mortality event (MME) is an incident that kills a vast number of a single species in a short period of time. The event may put a species at risk of extinction or upset an ecosystem. This is distinct from the mass die-off associated with short lived and synchronous emergent insect taxa which is a regular and non-catastrophic occurrence.\n\nCauses of MME's include disease and human-related activities such as pollution. Climatic extremes and other environmental influences such as oxygen stress in aquatic environments play a role, as does starvation. In many MME's there are multiple stressors. An analysis of such events from 1940 to 2012 found that these events have become more common for birds, fish and marine invertebrates, but have declined for amphibians and reptiles and not changed for mammals.\n\nHarbour Seals (1988)\n\nIn 1988, the death of 20,000 harbour seals in the North Sea was found to be due to phocine distemper virus. Ten years later two bacteria were implicated in the death of 1600 New Zealand sea lions. On Marion Island in 2007, some 250–300 adult male Subantarctic fur seal died in a two-week period. It was suggested but not proven that this gender-biased mortality was caused by Streptococcus sanguinis which was carried by the house mouse, an alien species accidentally introduced in the 1800s.\n\nMule Deer (2003)\n\nIn the Inyo National Forest there are several records of large numbers of migrating mule deer falling to their deaths by slipping on ice while crossing mountain passes. This has occurred when heavy snowfalls have persisted until fall, and have been turned to ice by frequent thawing and freezing. In 2003 a rain-on-snow event encased the ground in ice, resulting in the starvation of 20,000 muskoxen on Banks Island in the Canadian Arctic.\n\nSaiga Antelope (2015)\n\nIn 2015, some 200,000 saiga antelope died within a period of one week in a 20 km area of the Betpak-Dala desert region of Kazakhstan. They had gathered in large groups for their annual calving. It was determined that warm and humid temperatures had caused Pasteurella multocida, a bacteria that normally live harmlessly in their tonsils, to cross into their bloodstream and cause Hemorrhagic septicemia. This event wiped out 60% of the population of this critically endangered species. Mass mortality events are not uncommon for saiga. In 1981, 70,000 died, in 1988 there were 200,000 deaths and more recently in 2010 12,000 died.\n\n"}
{"id": "4688575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4688575", "title": "Miklós Schweitzer Competition", "text": "Miklós Schweitzer Competition\n\nThe Miklós Schweitzer Competition (\"Schweitzer Miklós Matematikai Emlékverseny\" in Hungarian) is an annual Hungarian mathematics competition for university undergraduates, established in 1949.\n\nIt is named after Miklós Schweitzer (1 February 1923 – 28 January 1945), a young Hungarian mathematician who died under the Siege of Budapest in the Second World War.\n\nThe Schweitzer contest is uniquely high-level among mathematics competitions. The problems, written by prominent Hungarian mathematicians, are challenging and require in-depth knowledge of the fields represented. The competition is open-book and competitors are allowed ten days to come up with solutions.\n\nThe problems on the competition can be classified roughly in the following categories: \n1. Algebra \n2. Combinatorics \n3. Theory of Functions\n4. Geometry\n5. Measure Theory\n6. Number Theory\n7. Operators\n8. Probability Theory\n9. Sequences and Series\n10. Topology \n11. Set Theory\n\nRecently a similar competition has been started in France.\n\n"}
{"id": "47959728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47959728", "title": "Orphan Wisdom", "text": "Orphan Wisdom\n\nOrphan Wisdom is a philosophical system invented and promoted by Stephen Jenkinson that believes what modern people \"suffer from most is culture failure, amnesia of ancestry and deep family story, phantom or sham rites of passage, no instruction on how to live with each other or with the world around us or with our dead or with our history.\" Before his 2010 founding of the Orphan Wisdom School, Jenkinson directed palliative care at Mount Sinai Hospital of Toronto. Orphan Wisdom's teachings push against \"'death phobia' and 'grief illiteracy'\" to promote acceptance of death well before death in order to \"participate emotionally in their deaths as they participate in other big life events\".\n\nThe documentary film about Jenkinson and Orphan Wisdom, \"Griefwalker\", was produced by the National Film Board of Canada and filmed over twelve years by Tim Wilson.\n\nThe 2015 book \"Die Wise: A Manifesto for Sanity and Soul\" is Jenkinson's history, explication and exploration of his approach to coming to terms with death. Its dense and sometimes poetic prose is both a critique of dominant Western cultural practices and denials - in part gleaned from his years the \"death trade,\" as Jenkinson calls it - as well as what the author has learned elsewhere, particularly from indigenous peoples. His ideas also have an affinity with Buddhist teachings, which have their origin in the Buddha's confronting the reality of suffering and death.\n\n"}
{"id": "8128239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8128239", "title": "Ortigueira's Festival of Celtic World", "text": "Ortigueira's Festival of Celtic World\n\nOrtigueira, a seaport and borough in County Ferrolterra (A Coruña) in Galicia, celebrates its patron saint day -Saint Martha of Ortigueira's Day- on 29 July.\n\nHeld during Saint Martha's day, Ortigueira's Festival of Celtic World (Festival Internacional do Mundo Celta de Ortigueira) is the highlight of the borough's summertime festival calendar. The festival lasts for four days, Thursday to Sunday, and is free.\n\nThe main stage is located in the port, and it has hosted performances by Celtic music groups of great level and international fame, such as Alan Stivell or The Chieftains, among many others. Since the 2000 edition in the surroundings of the port rises a smaller stage, the Runas stage, where a jury competition is held between new groups. The prize to the winner is the performance in the main stage in the edition of the following year. Free campsites are available on the beach of Morouzos and in the pine grove for people who go to the festival.\n\nIt is considered a Festival of International Tourist Interest and is one of the largest folk festivals in terms of number of attendees from all over Europe, having occasionally surpassed 100,000 attendees per edition.\n\nThe inaugural festival was organised in 1978 by the \"Escola de Gaitas de Ortigueira\". It was held from 1978 to 1987 and has been held since 1995.\n\n2017: Noreia (Slovenia), Gabriel G Diges (Ireland), Koji Koji Moheji (Japan), Skerryvore (band) (Scotland), Crebisnky (Galicia), Bagad Kevren Brest Sant Mark, Escola de Gaitas de Ortigueira, Usher’s Island, Scott Wood Band, Böj, The California and District Pipe Band, Oscar Ibañez & Tribo, Michael McGoldrick Band, Tejedor, Harmonica Creams, Gamelas e Anduriñas, Os Carecos e Amigos, Treixadura e Cantigas e Agarimos and A Roda.\n2018: Brumafolk (Cantabria), The Taverners (Castela e León), Beltaine (Poland), Ímar (Scotland/Wales), Escola De Gaitas De Ortigueira (Galicia), The National Youth Pipe Band of Scotland (Scotland), Kila (Ireland), Rubén Alba (Asturias), Os D’abaixo (Galicia), Milladoiro (Galicia), Yves Lambert Project (Canada), Gabriel G Diges (Ireland), Airiños De Fene (Galicia), Lúnasa (Ireland), The Celtic Social Club (Brittany).\n\n"}
{"id": "36762216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36762216", "title": "Outline of forgery", "text": "Outline of forgery\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to forgery:\n\nForgery – process of making, adapting, or imitating objects, statistics, or documents with the intent to deceive.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe authenticity of certain documents and artifacts has not yet been determined, and is still the subject of debate.\n\n\nSome documents and artifacts were previously thought to be forgeries, but have subsequently been determined to be genuine.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3735329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3735329", "title": "Peter Horsley", "text": "Peter Horsley\n\nAir Marshal Sir Beresford Peter Torrington Horsley, (25 March 1921 – 20 December 2001) was a senior Royal Air Force commander.\n\nHorsley was the youngest of seven children of a West Hartlepool merchant, who shot himself in 1922 after the collapse of the family business. He was educated at the Dragon School, Oxford, and Wellington College.\n\nIn 1939, he became a deck boy on the TSS \"Cyclops\", a Blue Funnel Line steamer sailing to Malaya. He transferred to the homeward-bound TSS \"Menelaus\" when the Second World War was declared, but then deserted ship. As a member of the Merchant Navy Horsley would not have been able to join the RAF, which was his ambition. \n\nHorsley served briefly in the Home Guard before joining the RAF, initially as an air gunner, as this was the only vacancy then available. However, he managed to get a transfer to pilot training, and was soon himself an instructor at RAF Cranwell.\n\nHe was transferred to the Flying Training School at Penfold, Alberta in 1942, and then to the Mosquito Conversion Unit at Greenwood, Nova Scotia, 1943–1944. He then joined 21 Squadron of 140 Wing, RAF Hunsdon, flying Mosquitoes on night fighter intruder missions over Nazi Germany. After D-Day he was shot down over the English Channel near Cherbourg and was picked up by an Air-Sea Rescue launch after three days. His navigator was killed, and he spent time in hospital and the RAF rehabilitation centre at Loughborough. \n\nHorsley then was attached to the communications squadron of the 2nd Tactical Air Force in France, and was personal pilot to Major-General Sir Miles Graham during the Normandy invasion. He returned to the United Kingdom in 1947 and joined the staff of the Central Flying School, 23 Training Group. He received a permanent commission and was appointed adjutant to the Oxford University Air Squadron in 1948.\n\nHe joined the Royal Household in July 1949, as a Squadron Leader, as Extra Equerry to Her Royal Highness the Princess Elizabeth, Duchess of Edinburgh and His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh. He was also concurrently Officer Commanding 29 Squadron, RAF Tangmere, Sussex, flying Meteor IX fighters. In 1952 he became a Wing Commander and Temporary Equerry to Her Majesty The Queen, and in 1953 he became full-time as Equerry to the Duke of Edinburgh, relinquishing the second appointment in command of his squadron. He remained the Duke’s Equerry until 1956. \n\nIn the late 1950s he became senior instructor at the RAF Flying College, Manby in Lincolnshire and was then made Station Commander at RAF Wattisham in Suffolk in 1959. He went on to be Group Captain Near East Air Force (NEAF) operations based in Cyprus on 1962.\n\nHorsley attended the Imperial Defence College, and was then appointed Deputy Commandant at the Joint Warfare Establishment at Old Sarum in Wiltshire in 1966. \n\nHe became an Air Vice Marshal and was made Assistant Chief of Air Staff (Operations) in 1968, then Commanding Officer No. 1 Group in 1971. His last appointment in the RAF was as Deputy Commander-in-Chief RAF Strike Command in 1973 before he retired in 1975.\n\nSir Peter wrote an autobiography, \"Sounds From Another Room\" (1997), which described his interest in UFOs, which began when Equerry to His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, and a close encounter with an \"alien\" in London in 1954. He died in 2001.\n\nHorsley received the French Croix de Guerre in 1944, and the Air Force Cross in 1945. He was made a Lieutenant of the Royal Victorian Order in 1956, and a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1964. In 1974 he was knighted and made a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath.\n"}
{"id": "258719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=258719", "title": "Puppy mill", "text": "Puppy mill\n\nA puppy mill, sometimes known as a puppy farm, is a type of commercial dog breeding facility. Although no standardized legal definition for \"puppy mill\" exists, a definition was established in \"Avenson v. Zegart\" in 1984 as \"a dog breeding operation in which the health of the dogs is disregarded in order to maintain a low overhead and maximize profits\". The ASPCA uses a similar definition: \"a large-scale commercial dog breeding operation where profit is given priority over the well-being of the dogs.\" According to the Humane Society of the United States, there are an estimated 10,000 licensed and unlicensed puppy mills in the United States, in total selling more than 2,000,000 puppies annually. Commercial kennels may be licensed by the United States Department of Agriculture and state and local jurisdictions which may inspect the kennels routinely.\n\nThe term \"mill\" is also applied to operations involving other animals commercially bred for profit, including cats. For-profit breeding on a smaller scale may be referred to as backyard breeding, although this term has negative connotations and may also refer to unplanned or non-commercial breeding.\n\nThe Kennel Club and the American Kennel Club state that responsible breeders should raise their animals with the intent to produce healthy dogs and to ensure that all animals are provided responsible homes and socialization. However, there is no way to enforce these wishes or records kept to prove this is the case. The socialization period in a puppy occurs between the ages of 4 weeks up to 14 weeks of age. This period is crucial for adult development as almost all adult abilities are learned during this stage. With puppy mills essentially skipping the process of socialization, it can result in social problems when the puppy matures to an adult.\n\nIn puppy mills, female dogs are sometimes bred every time they are in heat, which results in gradually-decreasing sizes of litters. Once a breeding female can no longer be bred, whether from pure exhaustion or from age, the female is usually killed. Puppies are also often weaned from their mothers well before the eight to ten weeks recommended.\n\nThe ASPCA states that some puppy mills can have up to 1,000 dogs under one roof. Because of the high volume of animals, the mill runner will often resort to housing them in wire cages. This results in the animals having poor locomotion.\nKeeping dogs in wire kennels can lead to injury and damage to the dogs' paws and legs. It's also fairly common for these kennels to be stacked on top of each other in columns. The conditions in these mills are so unsanitary that the animals are often coated in their own urine and feces, causing mats in their fur. Due to unsanitary conditions, puppies from mills will often have internal parasites, affecting their health. Puppy mills are often unheated and this increases the number of deaths due to cold among the dogs used for breeding. Conversely, the mills can also be too hot in warmer weather leading to hyperthermia.\n\nOther common conditions in mills include malnutrition and untreated injuries.\n\nDue to the frequently poor breeding conditions in puppy mills , puppies bred there often suffer from health and/or social problems. Puppies raised in a cramped environment shared by many other dogs become poorly socialized to other dogs and to humans. Dogs are then transported over long distances in poor conditions, sometimes resulting in animal stress and death. As the surviving mill dogs grow older, they are more prone to developing respiratory ailments and pneumonia, as well as hereditary defects such as hip dysplasia. In addition, mill dogs are more prone to having problems with their temperament due to lack of socialization, enrichment, and positive human contact. Puppies from mills are usually sold as purebred dogs in an attempt to attract the higher prices associated with purebreds. However, due to the indiscriminate breeding practices of puppy mills, the dog may not actually be a purebred puppy. A high population of puppies from mills are inbred due to uncontrolled breeding. The vast majority of puppy mill animals are sold to pet stores by \"dealers\" or \"brokers\". Some puppies are sold by dealers masquerading as authentic breeders.\n\nPuppy mills in the US often start with hundreds of female dogs which serve their entire lives in the establishment. The females are bred until they can no longer conceive puppies, and are often euthanized after that. The conditions in puppy mills are considered inhumane because all of the dogs are in a small, dirty area which is confined with disease and bacteria. Because of the poor living conditions, dogs are often sick and malnourished. Food is often found crawling with bugs and feces is almost everywhere. Health issues that are prevalent in puppy mills consist of giardia, mange, heartworm, respiratory infections, and much more.\n\nAccording to Chanis Major V. publications, puppy mills originated in the post-World War II era. Midwestern farmers looking for an alternative crop reacted to a growing demand for puppies, resulting in the development of the first commercial puppy business. As the industry grew, both small and large retail outlets began to sell puppies through pet departments. At around the same time, the first pet store chains were born.\n\nPuppy mill dogs are usually housed in a small, wire cages similar to rabbit hutches and chicken coops. In addition, veterinary care for these puppies was often overlooked because of an inability to pay. As a result, organizations such as the Humane Society of the United States began to investigate breeding kennels, leading to the passage of the Animal Welfare Act of August 24, 1966.\n\nAccording to the Humane Society of the United States, there are an estimated 10,000 licensed and unlicensed puppy mills in the United States, in total selling more than 2,000,000 puppies annually.\n\nA high concentration of both puppy mills and breeders has been reported in the states of Pennsylvania, Arkansas, Kansas, and Missouri.\n\nPennsylvania, and in particular, Lancaster County, has been labeled the \"Puppy Mill Capital of the East\" due to its high volume of puppy mills.\n\nMissouri has been labeled the \"Puppy Mill Capital of the U.S.\" by animal welfare and consumer protection groups. A study by the Better Business Bureau concluded that the southwest corner of Missouri is the hub of the nation's puppy mill industry, and termed it the \"national hot spot of the puppy industry.\"\n\nThe term \"puppy mill\" has been widely used by animal rights groups in protests against breeders who have substandard breeding conditions. Critics in the breeder community claim that emotional rhetoric, sensationalism and pictures of dirty kennels are used to justify additional legislation or additional restrictive licensing that travels well beyond the initial goal of removing dogs from truly deplorable conditions, or that attempts to legislate puppy mills would put them out of business. They argue the laws requiring additional costs in updating and maintaining their facility and licensing would be detrimental to the dogs in their care. They cite existing lemon laws for puppies as sufficient protection for both dogs and prospective buyers.\n\nOn May 1st, 2008, MSNBC aired a report about puppy mills, in which talk show host Oprah Winfrey revealed an industry fraught with problems and apparent cruelty. The broadcast showed puppy mills with small cages, with chicken wire floors, stacked in rows from floor to ceiling, and stated that many dogs spend their entire lives within these tiny cages. Many of these dogs are sold on the internet or by pet retailers to buyers who are unaware of the dogs' background. The report claimed that customers who object to this treatment of puppies unknowingly allow the industry to thrive. It also pointed out that many of the puppy mill bred dogs suffer long-term health problems.\n\nIn the United States, some elements of the dog breeding industry are regulated by the Animal Welfare Act of August 24, 1966.\n\nIn recent years, state legislatures have passed new laws aimed at eliminating the worst abuses at puppy mills. New laws include limits on the number of breeding females, requirements that facilities be licensed and inspected, and requirements that dogs be given proper veterinary care. Louisiana, Pennsylvania and Virginia passed puppy mill laws in 2008, and 10 states passed laws in 2009 to crack down on abusive puppy mills. In 2010, Missouri voters passed Proposition B, the \"Puppy Mill Cruelty Prevention Act\", which establishes minimum standards of humane care and limits breeders to 50 intact dogs.\n\nHowever, voters experienced push-back from the industry in the state of Missouri. Dog breeders and other farmers, worried about costly animal welfare measures spreading to their farms, pressured the state to repeal the law. In April 2011 Proposition B was repealed.\n\nA compromise, dubbed the \"Missouri Solution\", was signed by Missouri Governor Jay Nixon.\n\nIt retained some of the provisions of Proposition B, and made available some state funding for inspections. Humane Society of Missouri President Kathy Warnick reacted favorably, seeing a step in the right direction for animal welfare.\n\nDetractors, which include the President and CEO of the Humane Society of the United States, point to the \"shameful\" overturn of the voter's will to weaken Proposition B.\n\n“Lawmakers should never have substituted their judgment for the people of Missouri and gutted core provisions of Prop B,” said Wayne Pacelle, president and CEO of the Humane Society of the United States. \"The so-called compromise was not about protecting animals, it was about placating agri-business.\"\n\nBelow is a set of lists describing some of the key differences between Proposition B and the so-called \"Missouri Solution\".\n\nProposition B (approved by Missouri voters in November, 2010) \n\"Wire flooring for cages eliminated by November 2011; \" \n\"Maximum allowable breeding females per business = 50; \"\n\"Cage height = taller than any dog standing erect; \" \n\"Maximum number of times a female may be bred within 18 months time = 2; \" \n\"Larger enclosures by November 2011.\" \n\nthe “Missouri Solution” (compromise law signed by Missouri Gov. Jay Nixon, April 2011, after repealing Proposition B)\n\"No wire flooring for new enclosures in 2016, existing wire flooring permitted to remain indefinitely; \"\n\"No limit on number of breeding females; \"\n\"No restriction on cage height; \"\n\"No restrictions on how often females are impregnated; \"\n\"Larger enclosures in 2016.\"\n\nSydney Lord Mayor Clover Moore has responded to the problem of puppy mills in Australia by proposing the Animals Regulation of Sale Bill. It would ban the sale of dogs through pet shops, the internet or newspapers. The aim is to crack down on impulse purchases and shut down unregistered backyard breeders. These breeders should no longer easily profit from the sale of the dogs and the number of unwanted and abandoned animals could drop.\n\nAlso recently there were a few bold initiatives to fight against puppy mills. Namely RSPCA (Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals) strategy, Oscar's law (The organization’s name originates from the story of a dog called Oscar, who was rescued from a puppy factory in central Victoria), and Victorian Labor Party Efforts that restrict the number of dogs per breeding facility and require that pet shop owners to keep records of every dog sold.\n\nIn 1996, Britain passed the Breeding and Sale of Dogs Act which requires annual veterinary inspections for anyone breeding five or more litters in one year. Breeding females are restricted to one litter per year and four per lifetime.\n\nBreeders who choose to be members of the UK Kennel Club are required to register purebred puppies for sale with that organization and must certify the conditions under which the puppies were raised. Breeders who sell puppies by misrepresenting these standards may be liable to prosecution under the Sale of Goods Act 1979.\n\nMembers of the UK public frequently buy puppies and kittens without knowing the conditions under which the animals were reared, the Blue Cross estimates from 40,000 to 80,000 puppies are sold that way per year. To prevent this a new law is planned banning the sale of puppies and kittens below the age of 6 months in England except by licensed breeders and rehoming centres. Paula Boyden, of the Dogs Trust, approves of the ban but advised, \"potential loopholes\" needed to be addressed. She maintains rehoming organisations need regulation.\n\nIn July 2014, the Animal Legal Defense Fund and three Pennsylvania residents filed a lawsuit against the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture, alleging illegal expenditure of state tax dollars on unlawful regulatory activity. According to ALDF, the Pennsylvania General Assembly amended the Dog Law in 2008 to strengthen standards of care for dogs housed in commercial breeding facilities known as “puppy mills.” Just two years later, the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture weakened those minimum standards by creating regulatory exemptions for nursing mothers and their puppies. The lawsuit asks the court to order the Department of Agriculture to follow the law and end the suffering of mother dogs and their puppies.\n\nAccording to the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty towards Animals (ASPCA), on November 17, 2015 over 100 dogs were rescued from a puppy mill raid in Clewiston, Florida. Found in overcrowded and untidy pens with limited access to food or water, 116 dogs, including Huskies, Chihuahuas, and Poodles, were found having several ailments and untreated medical conditions that called for immediate veterinary care. According to Tim Rickey, the Vice President of ASPCA's Field Investigations and Response team, \"[ASPCA's] goal is to remove these dogs from a life of neglect, help them become healthy and eventually find them safe and loving homes.\" Reports state that the two puppy mill owners, Beatriz Perez, 46, and Alexei Fernandez, 47, have been arrested on charges of animal cruelty while the ASPCA transported the 116 dogs to a safe and secure location. The ASPCA is currently asking for donations to fund the medical treatments that many of the dogs need as well as to help these dogs find a forever home.\n\nOn November 5, 2014, the Animal Rescue Corps rescued about 100 dogs from what was said to be severely neglectful conditions. Both adult and newborn dogs were found in extremely crowded cages exposed to ammonia with limited access to any water or food. According to the Animal Rescue Corps's spokesman, Michael Cunningham, \"the dogs were suffering from untreated, painful eye infections, respiratory conditions, dental issues, severe matting that limited their mobility and vision, and urine-soaked, feces-caked fur.\" Since the owners could not be reached, no criminal charges have been filed. However, the dogs were taken for thorough veterinary screenings and care followed by their transportation to in-state and out-of-state dog adoption centers.\n\nOn February 28, 2014, 15 Humane Society of the United States workers rescued 183 animals from a puppy mill, including 121 dogs, 20 horses, 19 chickens, 11 exotic birds, and several cats, rabbits, and turtles. 30 miles south of Little Rock, Arkansas, White Hall puppy mill was found with severe stenches of ammonia from the uncleaned urine and feces from the numerous neglected animals. Many animals were found without any access to food or water. Humane Society workers stated that many of the animals required emergency veterinary care while still others suffered from severe eye conditions, dental problems, and severe dietary deficiencies. One humane worker said, \"I held dogs that were trembling and shaking and with heavy mats.\" The puppy mill owners, James and Tara Best, were both charged with animal cruelty.\n\n"}
{"id": "39829719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39829719", "title": "Qing Shan King Sacrificial Ceremony", "text": "Qing Shan King Sacrificial Ceremony\n\nThe Qing Shan King Sacrificial Ceremony is a festival held annually in Wanhua, Taipei, Taiwan. It is held between the 20 and 22 October (Lunar Calendar) and is used to celebrate the birth of the deity Qing Shan King. During this festival, the Bodhisattvas of several other temples (including Qingshui Temple) are invited to celebrate within Wanhua.\n\nThe visiting Bodhisattvas tour Wanhua for 2 nights and then hold a birthday celebration for Qing Shan King. The purpose of touring Wanhua is to eliminate the evil spirits that bring locals bad luck and suffering. During this period, all windows and doors must be shut to prevent evil spirits from entering the locals’ households. There are three different tour routes, the first route runs from Huan He Road to Zhong Hua Road, the second starts from Wanhua Station and the last route begins from Ting Han Kou Road in Ximending. The parade usually lasts throughout the night and ends around 3 or 4am.\n\nBetween 2-3 million pieces of a traditional biscuit known as \"Xian Guang Bing\" are given out during each celebration.\n"}
{"id": "36885590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36885590", "title": "Royal Naval Hospital Gibraltar", "text": "Royal Naval Hospital Gibraltar\n\nThe Royal Naval Hospital Gibraltar (RNH Gibraltar), formerly the British Military Hospital Gibraltar (BMH Gibraltar), was a military hospital founded c. 1903 to provide healthcare for British military personnel and local sailors. The facility, located on Europa Road in the British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar's South District, comprised three buildings. The hospital was transferred to the Royal Navy in 1963. It closed in 2008, and underwent residential conversion that began prior to the hospital's closure.\n\nThe British Military Hospital Gibraltar opened c. 1903 to provide medical care for local sailors and British military personnel in Gibraltar. It was located on Europa Road in the British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar at the southern end of the Iberian Peninsula. It included three three-story buildings, with a capacity of about three hundred beds. The light blue colour of its exterior gave the hospital its nickname, the Wedgwood Castle. Visitors to the hospital included Queen Alexandra in 1905 and King George V in 1912.\n\nDuring 1915 there was a continuous stream of Australian, British and New Zealander wounded who arrived in Gibraltar, via hospital ship, from Gallipoli. Many of the wounded were carried on stretchers onto the Rock by the Gibraltar Volunteer corps but there were far too many to fit in the hospital. Satellite hospitals were created as the only other choice was a long sea voyage.\n\nThe British Military Hospital cared for casualties of the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939). Among the casualties were 55 men from the German cruiser \"Deutschland\" which had been bombed while at anchor off the Spanish island of Ibiza. The hospital had already been at capacity due to casualties from , a Royal Navy ship that had hit a mine while on patrol near Almería in May 1937. At the same time, staff were tending to casualties from HM Maine, a hospital ship. Many of the casualties had sustained burn injuries. The influx of casualties was such that four nurses from Queen Alexandra's Imperial Military Nursing Service arrived at Gibraltar by flying boat to assist in the care of the German casualties. The following year, one of those nurses was awarded the German Red Cross Decoration, as well as a certificate from Adolf Hitler.\n\nDuring World War II, casualties from the Malta area were treated at BMH Gibraltar while their ships were serviced at the Naval dockyard. Injuries were again most commonly burns. During the course of WWII, a second hospital, Gort's Hospital, was built in Gibraltar, in tunnel systems deep within The Rock. There was concern that BMH Gibraltar could be compromised by an air raid or an invasion through Spain. Teams of British and Canadian engineers prepared the tunnels and St. Michael's Cave, and filled it with beds and medical equipment, even flush toilets and an operating theatre. The operating room was said to have been better than that at the conventional hospital as it had been equipped by the United States. Other underground Hospitals were Gort's Hospital (opposite the BMH) Fordham's Hospital, Monkey's Cave Convalescent Hospital and Flat Bastion Road Hospital. The rubble stone from tunneling was utilised to construct an airstrip into the Bay of Gibraltar.\n\nThe hospital was transferred to the Royal Navy on the 1st April 1963, and was renamed the Royal Naval Hospital Gibraltar. In recent decades, however, the Royal Navy presence in Gibraltar waned. Conversion of portions of the hospital to apartments was underway by 2006. By 2007, the capacity was down to 25 beds. However, in February of that year, the Royal Naval Hospital Gibraltar became the first military hospital to receive the Baby Friendly Award from UNICEF (United Nations Children's Fund). The Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative was established by UNICEF and the World Health Organization (WHO) to increase breastfeeding rates. The Governor of Gibraltar, Sir Robert Fulton, presented the award at the Garrison Library.\n\nDuring its last full year of operation, 2007, the hospital received permission to fly the White Ensign for several months, instead of the traditional Union Flag. After more than one hundred years of service, the hospital closed in 2008. It was one of the last existing Royal Naval Hospitals. The move to new premises took place over a two-week period in February 2008, with the hospital remaining open during the process of relocation. The new facility was the Princess Royal Medical Centre, within the Royal Gibraltar Regiment's Devil's Tower Camp. The new medical centre was inaugurated the following year on 5 March 2009 by Anne, Princess Royal.\nThe phased residential conversion of the Royal Naval Hospital Gibraltar has been named \"The Cliftons\", taking its name from two areas: Clifton, in Bristol, England, and Clifton Beach in Cape Town, South Africa. \nBlock A of the hospital was renovated by Profield Contractors and the MSMR architectural firm for Taylor Woodrow while the hospital was still in operation. That first phase of hospital conversion was named \"Orchid House\" and includes eleven luxury apartments. A floor was added to the original building to enable construction of two penthouses. In addition, three new townhouses and a villa were built and named \"Clifton Mews\". The Government of Gibraltar has applied for European Heritage Site status for the hospital. The process of conversion of the former hospital to apartments is expected to continue.\n\nGibraltar's barbary macaque population was under the care of the British Army and later the Gibraltar Regiment from 1915 to 1991, who carefully controlled a population that initially consisted of a single troop. An officer was appointed to supervise their welfare, and a food allowance of fruit, vegetables and nuts was included in the budget. Births were gazetted in true military fashion, and each new arrival was named. They were named after governors, brigadiers and high-ranking officers. Any ill or injured monkey needing surgery or any other form of medical attention was taken to Royal Naval Hospital Gibraltar and received the same treatment as would an enlisted service man. Following the withdrawal of the British garrison, the Government of Gibraltar took over responsibility for the monkeys.\n\n"}
{"id": "27009538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27009538", "title": "Salle Ventadour", "text": "Salle Ventadour\n\nThe Salle Ventadour, a former Parisian theatre in the rue Neuve-Ventadour, now the rue Méhul (2nd arrondissement of Paris), was built between 1826 and 1829 for the Opéra-Comique, to designs by Jacques-Marie Huvé, a prominent architect. The original theatre had a capacity of 1,106, but was subsequently taken over by the Théâtre-Italien and expanded to a capacity of 1,295 in 1841, thereafter becoming perhaps most noteworthy as the theatre in which the majority of the operas of the Italian composer Giuseppe Verdi were first performed in France. When the Théâtre-Italien company went out of business in 1878, the theatre was converted to offices.\n\nThe Opéra-Comique first performed at the Salle Ventadour on 20 April 1829. The opening night audience was a distinguished one and found the new theatre luxurious and comfortable. The program included the one-act opera \"Les deux mousquetaires\" by Henri Montan Berton, the overture to Étienne Méhul's opera \"Le jeune Henri\", and the three-act opera \"La fiancée\" with music by Daniel Auber and a libretto by Eugène Scribe. The Opéra-Comique presented 32 premieres during its time at the Salle Ventadour, including one of François-Adrien Boieldieu's last operas \"Les deux nuits\" on 20 May 1829, Auber's \"Fra Diavolo\" (as \"L'hôtellerie de Terracine\") on 28 January 1830, and Ferdinand Hérold's \"Zampa\" on 3 May 1831. After 22 March 1832 the Opéra-Comique left the Salle Ventadour and moved to the Salle de la Bourse, where it opened on 24 September 1832.\n\nThe Salle Ventadour was reopened on 10 June 1834 as the Théâtre Nautique — \"nautique\" since some of the main attractions were works performed in a basin of water on the stage. The programs included the ballet-pantomime \"Les ondines\", which was based on Fouqué's novella \"Undine\", about a water sprite who marries a knight in order to save her soul, and used music from E. T. A. Hoffmann's opera of the same name; a full-length ballet \"William Tell\" with music by the German composer Jacques Strunz; a one-act ballet \"Le nouveau Robinson\" which also utilized the water; and a chinoiserie entitled \"Chao-Kang\". These were interspersed with choruses by Carl Maria von Weber and others, sung by the members of a German company that was being formed in Paris at that time. The entr'acte was the overture to Weber's opera \"Oberon\". The reviews were not good, and the size of the audience decreased over time.\n\nHarriet Smithson, the Irish actress who had married the French composer Hector Berlioz on 3 October 1833, appeared with the Théâtre Nautique, opening on 22 November 1834 in a one-act pantomime put together by the resident choreographer Louis Henry. He called the concoction \"La derniére heure d'un condamné\", and it used music by Cesare Pugni. The scenario took advantage of her talent for mad scenes: she had previously performed Ophelia in an English-language production of Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\" at the Théâtre de l'Odéon to great acclaim in 1827. The new piece was a pantomime, since Smithson's French was far from perfect (and remained so for the rest of her life). Unfortunately, this new performance was not as favorably received. Jules Janin, writing in the \"Journal des débats\" described it as consisting of \"the two or three dozen contortions that are known as the art of mime\" and complained that \"they have cut Miss Smithson's tongue out\". Berlioz anonymously wrote a positive review that appeared in the \"Gazette musicale\" but spent half of its time describing her previous appearance as Ophelia and the important influence it had had on the French style of acting. Not all the reviews were entirely negative: the English-language \"Galignani's Messenger\" praised Smithson, saying that the \"single feature worth naming of this piece is the performance of Madame Berlioz, as the wife of the \"condamné\", in which the agony and despair of such a situation is depicted with the fidelity and painful truth only within the reach of a perfect artiste.\" But apparently her performances were not enough to rescue the enterprise, and the Théâtre Nautique closed in 1835.\n\nThe Salle Ventadour was used for a brief time by the Théâtre-Italien (30 January 1838 to 31 March 1838) after the destruction of the company's previous home, the Salle Favart, by fire on 15 January 1838. Only one opera new to Paris was presented, Gaetano Donizetti's \"Parisina\". The company moved to the Odéon for three years before returning to the Salle Ventadour in 1841.\n\nWhile the Théâtre-Italien company was at the Odéon, the Salle Ventadour was rented by Anténor Joly, who with the encouragement of the two great French romantic dramatists Victor Hugo and Alexandre Dumas, remodeled the theatre and renamed it the Théâtre de la Renaissance. Their aim was to bring together in one theatre the elitist and popular audiences of Paris. The new company opened on 8 November 1838 with the premiere of Hugo's drama \"Ruy Blas\" with Frédérick Lemaître in the title role. It ran for 48 performances. Two new plays by Dumas were also presented, \"Bathilde\" (14 January 1839) and \"L'alchimiste\" (10 April 1839), although these were less successful. The repertoire of the company was not limited to plays: Joly also mounted three new operas by Friedrich von Flotow, including \"Lady Melvil\" on 15 November 1838 (with some music also written by Albert Grisar and Sophie Anne Thillon as Lady Melvil), \"L'eau merveilleuse\" on 30 January 1839, and \"Le naufrage de la Méduse\" on 31 May 1839; and on 6 August 1839 the premiere of Donizetti's \"Lucie de Lammermoor\", a French version of his \"Lucia di Lammermoor\", with Thillon as Lucia and Achille Ricciardi as Edgardo. Joly's venture was short-lived however, closing on 16 May 1841.\n\nAfter the Théâtre de la Renaissance closed in 1841 the theater was expanded to a capacity of 1,294 and was again used by the Théâtre-Italien company from 2 October 1841 to 28 June 1878. During this time the company presented the premiere of Donizetti's \"Don Pasquale\" (3 January 1843) and the Paris premieres of 15 of Verdi's operas, including \"Nabucco\" (1845), \"Ernani\" (1846, as \"Il Proscritto\"), \"Il trovatore\" (23 December 1854), \"La traviata\" (6 December 1856), \"Rigoletto\" (19 January 1857), \"Un ballo in maschera\" (13 January 1861), and \"Aida\" (22 April 1876) with Verdi conducting. Among the important singers appearing in Verdi's operas were Giorgio Ronconi, Adelaide Borghi-Mamo, and Gaetano Fraschini. Verdi is reported to have referred to the Salle Ventadour as his favorite opera house in Paris.\n\nBesides opera, the Salle Ventadour was also sometimes used for concerts. Giaocchino Rossini's \"Stabat Mater\" received its premiere there on 7 January 1842. Richard Wagner conducted three concerts devoted to his own music, including extracts from \"The Flying Dutchman\", \"Tannhäuser\", \"Tristan und Isolde\", and \"Lohengrin\", on 25 January, 1 and 8 February 1860. Verdi conducted the Paris premiere of his \"Requiem\" on 30 May 1876.\n\nThe Théâtre-Italien shared the theater briefly, from 26 June to 4 July 1853, with the Opéra-Comique, and from 16 March 1868 to 5 May 1868 the theater was shared with a new company directed by Léon Carvalho, which was an extension of his Théâtre Lyrique on the Place du Châtelet. The name Théâtre de la Renaissance was revived for the use of Carvalho's venture, in order to distinguish it from the Théâtre-Italien. Carvalho had overextended himself, however, and soon went bankrupt. The Théâtre-Italien also shared the theater with the Paris Opéra from 19 January to December 1874 (in the period after the Opéra's Salle Le Peletier burned down on 28 October 1873 and before the opening of the Opéra's new Palais Garnier on 5 January 1875). Companies sharing the theatre usually performed on alternate nights.\n\nAt the instigation of the French tenor Victor Capoul the first professional public performance of the opera \"Les amants de Vérone\" with text and music by the was mounted at the Salle Ventadour on 12 October 1878. The libretto follows Shakespeare's \"Romeo and Juliet\" more closely than that of the opera by Gounod, but the marquis d'Ivry's opera suffered in comparison. Capoul sang Romeo, and the Belgian soprano Marie Heilbronn sang Juliet. The same singers later appeared in a production at Covent Garden which was performed three times beginning on 24 May 1879. The text was considered \"coarse\", and the music received a lukewarm response.\n\nAfter the Théâtre-Italien company went out of business in 1878, the Salle Ventadour was sold on 20 January 1879 and transformed into offices. The building has been primarily occupied by the Banque de France since 1893. Gustave Chouquet, writing in the 1900 edition of George Grove's \"Dictionary of Music and Musicians\", described the renovated building as follows: \"its pediment, still decorated with statues of the Muses, now bears the words 'Banque d'escompte de Paris,' a truly exasperating sight\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "981293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=981293", "title": "Sanghamitta", "text": "Sanghamitta\n\nSaṅghamittā (Saṅghamitrā in Sanskrit) was the eldest daughter of Emperor Ashoka (304 BC – 232 BC) and his first wife, Devi. Together with her brother Mahinda, she entered an order of Buddhist monks. The two siblings later went to Sri Lanka to spread the teachings of Buddha at the request of King Devanampiya Tissa (250 BC – 210 BC) who was a contemporary of Ashoka. Ashoka was initially reluctant to send his daughter on an overseas mission. However, because of the insistence of Sangamitra herself, he finally agreed. She was sent to Sri Lanka together with several other nuns to start the nun-lineage of Bhikkhunis (a fully ordained female Buddhist monastic) at the request of King Tissa to ordain queen Anulā and other women of Tissa's court at Anuradhapura who desired to be ordained as nuns after Mahindra converted them to Buddhism.\n\nAfter Sanghamittā’s contribution to the propagation of Buddhism in Sri Lanka and her establishing the \"Bikhhunī Sangha\" or \"Meheini Sasna\" (Order of Nuns) there, her name became synonymous with \"Buddhist Female Monastic Order of Theravāda Buddhism\" that was established not only in Sri Lanka but also in Burma, China and Thailand, in particular. The day the most revered tree, the Bodhi tree, a sapling of which was brought by her to Sri Lanka and planted in Anuradhapura, and which still survives, is also celebrated every year on the Full Moon day of December as \"Uduvapa Poya\" or \"Uposatha Poya\" and \"Sanghamittā Day\" by Theravāda Buddhists in Sri Lanka.\n\nSanghamitra is known for the proselytisation activity among women that she pursued as her lifetime goal in Sri Lanka, along with her brother, Mahendra (called Mahinda in Sri Lanka) at the initiation of her father, Emperor Ashoka of the Maurya dynasty who ruled in India in the 3rd century BC. Ashoka, after adopting Buddhism, took to spreading tenets of Buddhism in nine other countries of the region. His contemporary in Sri Lanka, King Devanampiya Tissa, in close alliance with Ashoka, saw the arrival of Buddhism in Sri Lanka.\n\nHowever, before deputing missions abroad in the region around India, Ashoka, in consultation with Venerable Moggaliputta Tissa convened a meeting of the Third Buddhist Council in which 1,000 Arahants participated. The purpose of this council meeting was not only to purge the Sangha of undesirable elements but also to take a view on the proselytisation of Buddhism in view of the strong challenge faced from the Brahmins of Hindu religion. Moggaliputta presided over the Council meeting where it was decided to send nine delegations to different regions to spread Buddhism.\n\nKing Ashoka then sent out missionaries in nine different directions. The delegation that was sent south to Sri Lanka, at the request of Tissa, was led by Ashoka's son Mahendra. Before taking the long journey, Mahendra sought blessings of his mother. The delegation (considered a diplomatic mission) comprised six other Arhats, namely Ittiya, Uttiya, Sambala, Bhaddasala, young Samanera (nephew of Mahendra) and a Bhanduka (also a cousin of Mahendra). All members of the mission belonged to the royal family, indicating the importance Ashoka attached to spreading Buddhism in Sri Lanka.\n\nThis was also considered an opportune moment to spread Buddhism in Sri Lanka since Buddha himself had created awareness of his philosophy and precepts of Buddhism among the royalty and the common people during his three visits to Sri Lanka undertaken in the eight years following his enlightenment. Buddha, during his lifetime, had also created a social structure for the practice of Dhammavinaya or Dhamma (in Sanskrit: Dharma), which comprised the Sangha – order of bhikkhus (monks) and bhikkunis (nuns) to preserve his teachings for posterity. However, it was only King Tissa, realising the poor status of the religion in his country, desired fresh efforts by a delegation from India.\n\nMahendra arrived with his delegation at Anuradhapura where King Tissa, accompanied by his sister-in-law (brother's wife) Princess Anula with her entourage of 500 women, met him at the Mahamegha Garden. The Mahendra mission was very successful in introducing Buddhism to Sri Lanka. He established the Bhikkhu Order for men. However, thousands of women, starting with Anula, who had converted to Buddhism along with the King Tissa, wished to be ordained into the Bhikkuni Order. Thera Mahindra expressed his inability to do so since this ordination had to be performed by a priestess or a Theri Arahat. He therefore advised the King to write to Emperor Ashoka and seek the services of his younger sister Theri Sangamitta, who was \"profoundly learned\", to be deputed to Sri Lanka for the purpose. He also desired that a sapling of the right branch of the Bodhi-Tree (where the Tathagata got his enlightenment) from Bodh Gaya should also be brought by her to Sri Lanka. King Tissa then chose his Minister Prince Arittha (his nephew) for the purpose since the minister had volunteered to go to India on the condition that on his return he would also be ordained into the Bhikkhu Sasana by Thera Mahindra. This was agreed.\n\nSangamitta's parents were the Emperor Ashoka and his first wife, Devi, who was a Buddhist. Her birth in 285 BC, as popularly known in published texts was as the second child of Ashoka and younger sister of brother Mahindra. She was born in Ujjeini (present day Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh in India). Her mother did not join Ashoka when he was crowned and her two children had embraced Buddhism. She was married at the age of 14 to Agribrahmi, a nephew of Emperor Ashoka, who was also an Arhant. She had a son, Saamanera Sumana who also later became an Arhant and went along with his uncle Mahindra to Sri Lanka to preach Buddhism. Her teacher was Ayupala. She was ordained at the age of 18 into Theravada Buddhism Order by their preceptor Dhammapala. Her brother was also ordained at the same time. With her dedicated perseverance to Dhamma she became an Arhant Theri and resided in Pataliputra (now known as Patna).\n\nMahindra’s mission in Sri Lanka was very successful. Among his new converts was Princess Anula, King Tissa’s sister-in-law who became Sotapanna and requested ordination. King Tissa wrote to Emperor Ashoka to depute Sangamitta for the purpose. Mahindra also wrote to his father to depute his sister Sanghamitta to Sri Lanka as requested by King Tissa.\n\nFollowing this invitation from the King and also the request made by his son Mahindra, Ashoka sent Sanghamitta with a retinue of 10 other learned bhikkunis (priestesses) to accompany her and to give ordination to the Sri Lanka's princess Anula and other women. Ashoka was initially distraught at the prospect of sending his daughter away but Sangamitta herself persisted that she would like to go to Sri Lanka. She appealed to her father stating: The purpose was also to establish the Bhikkuni Order to spread Buddhism in that country with the devoted participation and assistance of women. Ashoka finally agreed to send her. She travelled to Sri Lanka by sea carrying a sapling of Bodhi-Tree in a golden vase. She landed at Jambukola in the North. King Tissa himself received Sangamitta and the sapling of the Bodhi-Tree with deep veneration. They were then ceremonially escorted by the king and his people to Anuradhapura. They entered at the northern gate of Anuradhapura along a road sprinkled with white sand. The Bodhi sapling was planted with great fanfare in the Mahāmeghavana Grove in Aunradhapura. It is still seen at the same location.\n\nIn Dipavamsa chronicle, the number of nuns who accompanied Sangamitta has been mentioned differently – three figures have been quoted but the figure of 11 including Sangamitta is inferred as the plausible number. The names of the young nuns who accompanied here on the ship were: Uttara, Hema, Pasadpala, Aggimitta, Dasika, Pheggu, Pabbata, Matta, Malla, and Dhammadasiya. In addition, the delegation headed by the Sri Lankan Ambassador Prince Athitha, which returned to Sri Lanka, comprised the Chief priestess Sangamitta and ten other priesteses, eight people of royal lineage of Magadha (Bogut, Sumitta, Sangot, Devgot, Damgot, Hirugot, Sisigot and Jutindhara), eight members of nobility (families of ministers), eight Brahmins, eight Vaishyas (traders), herdsmen, Hyaenna, Sparrow-hawk, Nagas, Yakkas, craftsmen, weavers, potters and many members of other castes.\n\nA legend mentioned related to the journey of Sangamitta to Sri Lanka is that Nagas encircled the Bodhi tree. Sangamitta drove them away by assuming the form of Garuda (half-man half-bird form). Sanghamitta was 32 years of age when she took this journey. Her son Samanera was already in Sri Lanka as he had joined his uncle Mahindra's mission to spread Buddhism. Sangamitta performed the formal \"Pabbajja\" ordination of Princess Anula. Anula was the first Sri Lankan woman to be ordained as a bhikkuni; concurrently her companions numbering more than 1000 who were also observing \"Dasa Sil\" were bestowed with \"Pabbajja\" ordination. This formally created the \"first ecclesiastical life of the Bhikkuni Sasana in Sri Lanka\". The ordination covered not only the royalty but also common people of various strata of the society. She pursued every effort to enhance the status of woman, with sustained devotion, dedication and diligence.\n\nSangamitta, on arrival at Anuradhapura, was put up initially at the ‘Upasika Viharaya’ along with the bhikkunis who had accompanied her. An additional 12 buildings (ashramas) were built to accommodate the bhikkunis. Subsequently, the King also built a separate house for Sangamitta known as 'Hathalakha-Vihara' acceding to the request of the nuns to reside in a secluded place where they could exclusively concentrate on devotional religious pursuits.\n\nDipavamsa, a chronicle written in 400 BC, records that after the Bhikkuni Sangha was established, there was widespread following in the country among women of all ages and from all levels of society. The women who ordained were highly learned in the scriptures and they readily taught their knowledge of the Vinaya or rules of discipline to others.\n\n\nSangamittā carried the right south branch of the Bodhi-Tree (selected by Ashoka from the Maha Bodhi-Tree in Gaya) on a ship to Anurādhapura, during the 12th year of Ashoka's reign. The sapling was planted by Devānāmpiya Tissa in the Mahāmeghavana in Anurdhapura. It seems that \"the Buddha, on his death bed, had resolved five things, one being that the branch which should be taken to Ceylon should detach itself\". The journey route followed by Sangamitta who carried the tree branch was from Gayā to Pātaliputta and then to Tāmalittī in Bengal. Here, it was placed in a golden vase in the ship and transported to Jambukola across the sea. The entourage reached Anurādhapura, staying en route at Tivakka.\n\nThe planting of the Bodhi Tree was a grand ceremony performed by the king himself with assistance from the nobles of Kājaragāma, Candanagāma and Tivakka, in the presence of Sangamitta and her brother Mahindra. The tree took eight roots, yielded fruits and seeds. As fresh eight saplings emerged, they were moved and planted at Jambukola (present Colombogaon in north Sri Lanka), in the village of Tivakka, at Thūpārāmā, at Issaramanārāma, in the court of the Pathamacetiya, in Cetiyagiri, in Kājaragāma and in Candanagāma.\n\nThe tree, as it stands, is on raised mound. In 1907, it was in height with in girth. Th tree and the shrine have been built around a compound wall measuring x and in height, primarily to protect the tree and the shrine built around it. Ten more trees of the same species are also seen within precincts of the enclosure. A damaged Buddha statue made in bricks (attributed its creation during Tissa's rule) is a marker to locate the main Bodhi-Tree here. 32 more saplings, from four other fruits, were also planted in the near vicinity.\n\nThe Bodhi-Tree at Anuradhapura was well tended by successive royal family members of Sri Lanka over the centuries, so much so that a village near Anurādhapura was also earmarked to provide for maintenance of the tree.\n\nA recent comment by Historian H. G. Wells on this oldest historical tree in the world, which is well maintained states:\n\nSangamitta died at the age of 79 in the ninth year of the reign of King Uttiya at her residence in Hatthaloka Upasikaramaya Anuradhapura. Uttiya performed her last rites. The occasion was also marked with observances in her honour throughout Sri Lanka, for one week. She was cremated to the east of the Thūpārāma near the Cittasālā, in front of the Bodhi-Tree. The location for the cremation had been selected by the Therī herself before her death. A stupa was erected by Uttiya over her ashes.\n\nThe Bhikkhuni Sangha (a Dhamma-vinaya heritage started by Lord Buddha during his lifetime in India), locally known as \"Bikhhuni Sasana\" or \"Meheini Sasna\" (Order of Priestesses or Nuns) that was established by Sangamitta in Sri Lanka prospered for over 1000 years, till it disappeared in 1017 AD. The reason for such an end is attributed to the invasion of Cholas, Hindu rulers from South India, whereafter Bhikkhus and Bhikkunis were not seen in Sri Lanka for quite some years.\n\nBhikkuni ordination is the third and ultimate stage of ordination of nuns; the earlier two stages are the \"sramanerika\" (novice) and \"siksamana\" (probationary). In India, the Bhikkuni Order was established by Buddha six years after the Bhikkhu Order was established, in the 6th century BC. It was spread to Sri Lanka by Sangamitta in the 3rd BC. Initially, with spread of Buddhism in ancient India, 18 (eighteen) Vinaya schools developed. However, now only three are extant. These are the Theravada practiced in Sri Lanka and Southeast Asia; the Dharmaguptaka that is practiced in Taiwan, China, Korea, and Vietnam; and the third school is the Mulasarvastivada adopted in Tibet.\n\nIn 429 AD, Bhikkuni Devasara had realised that Bhikkuni Sanga, on account of war and famine, could vanish from Sri Lanka. She, therefore, had led a mission to China to establish the Bhikkuni Sasana. The original Theravada Bhikkuni lineage established in China since 429 AD has continued to function to this day. However, Asarana Sarana Saranankara Maha Thera re-introduced the Higher Ordination from Thailand. He is credited with re-establishing the Order of Monks in Sri Lanka in 1753 AD. It is now said that there are more than 400 Bhikkunis in the country.\n\nIn Thailand, the lineage is well established. A clay statue of Sanghamitta made by Dhammananda in 2002, is deified in a shrine room at Songdhammakalyani Monastery in Nakhonpathom. Her image is flanked by images of 13 Arahat Theris.\n\nIt is also reported that a few women from western countries practising the Theravada tradition and a few women from Thailand have been ordained to bhikkuni order in Sri Lanka in recent years.\n\nUnduvapa Poya festival is observed in Sri Lanka on the Full Moon of December to commemorate two specific events namely, Theri Sangamitta day of arrival from India to establish the Order of Nuns and to also mark her bringing a sapling of the sacred Bodhi-Tree from Bodh Gaya and planting it in Aunradhapura. The festival day has been designated as \"Sanghamitta Day\". On this day, ten ordained nuns initiate the festive celebrations every year. This observance was revived in 1903 at the suggestion of the Mahabodhi Society of Sri Lanka.\n\nThis Observance is performed by Buddhists by first following the 'Five Precepts'; bathing, shaving, wearing white robes, and kneeling with clean bare feet in a shrine before a Buddha-statue. The kneeling and bowing is done first three times with feet, hands, elbows, knees and head touching the floor. This is followed by reciting loudly the memorised prayers, with folded hands (palms at the heart). The prayers offered from sunrise until the next dawn starting with the words are: \n\nIt is also a prayer offered on this day for the revival of Bhikkuni Sasana in Sri Lanka and with the hope that it will flourish in the future. It is proposed that the day should also be celebrated as the International Women’s Day, as a mark of honour to Sangamitta who established the women's Order.\n\n"}
{"id": "36268341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36268341", "title": "Shōchō uprising", "text": "Shōchō uprising\n\nThe Shōchō uprising ( or ) was one of the many armed rebellions in Japan during the Muromachi Period and the first launched by the peasants. It occurred between August and September of the year 1428, which in the old Japanese calendar was the 1st year of Shōchō, and is also known as the \"Shōchō no Tokusei Ikki\", the Shocho debt cancellation revolt.\n\nAs social anxiety increased as a result of the death of Ashikaga Yoshimochi, of bad harvests due to poor weather since the last year, and of an epidemic of three-day disease (likely cholera ), the bashaku of Otsu and Sakamoto in Ōmi Province demanded a debt moratorium.\n\nThis revolt spread and extended to all of Kinai as peasants throughout the region who were struggling to repay their debts undertook \"independent debt relief\" by attacking and looting sake merchants, storehouse money brokers, and temples. The grounds for the so-called \"independent debt relief\" is supposed to be \"daigawari no tokusei\", or debt relief at the time when power passes from one shōgun to another.\n\nThe shogunate was hard-pressed by this and set about quelling it under the orders of the kanrei Mitsuie Hatakeyama. The head of the \"samurai-dokoro\", Akamatsu Mitsusuke, also sent troops. However, the strength of the insurrection did not diminish but rather it even invaded Kyoto in September and also spread to Nara.\n\nThe monk Jinson recorded the following entry about the uprising in the Daijoin nikki mokuroku, his daily journal. \"The first year of Shocho, in the ninth month, an uprising of commoners broke out. They claimed debt relief and went on to destroy wine shops, pawn shops, and temples which engaged in usury. They took anything they could lay their hands on, and cancelled the debts. Kanrei Mitsuie Hatakeyama suppressed this. There is nothing more than this incident to bring about the ruin of our country. This is the first time since the founding of Japan that an uprising of commoners ever occurred.\"\n\nIn the end, the Muromachi shogunate did not release a debt cancellation order, but because proof of the farmers' debts had been destroyed during the looting, the \"independent debt relief\" had effectively achieved the same situation. Furthermore, Kōfuku-ji in Yamato Province formally cancelled debts and because it had turned almost all the territory in the province into its own \"shōen\" and exercised power as its \"shugo\", these orders had official binding power and were implemented. An example of one such order is the Yagyū no Tokusei Hibun which was inscribed on a stone monument.\n"}
{"id": "27176636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27176636", "title": "Skip Barber National Championship", "text": "Skip Barber National Championship\n\nThe BFGoodrich/Skip Barber National Presented by Mazda was an entry-level professional race series run by Skip Barber Racing School. Initially formed as the Formula Dodge National Championship, From 2006 to 2011 the Skip Barber National was the initial open-wheel race series in the MAZDASPEED Motorsports Development ladder, which includes the Cooper Tires U.S. F2000 National Championship and the Pro Mazda Championship. The Skip Barber National has run in support of the American Le Mans Series, Grand-Am Rolex Sports Car Series and A1GP and is designed to give young drivers transitioning from karting to race cars their first experience of professional level road racing.\n\nThe Skip Barber National was developed to fill the gap between the Skip Barber Regional Race Series and the Barber Dodge Pro Series. The first season was in fact a one-race shootout for top drivers from the four Regional Race Series. Held at Lime Rock Park in Connecticut, the race (and championship) was won by 2012 IZOD IndyCar Series champion Ryan Hunter-Reay.\n\nFor the first several years of its existence, the Skip Barber National schedule was made up of what were deemed to be the best tracks scheduled for each of the four Skip Barber Regional Race Series. The Skip Barber National was run as a separate run group within each race weekend, with a separate fleet of cars. The National made its professional support series debut at the 2003 12 Hours of Sebring. The Skip Barber National Champion during this era earned a $100,000 career enhancement award to help them pick up a ride in the next level of open-wheel racing.\n\nWhen Mazda replaced Dodge as automotive partner with Skip Barber Racing School at the end of 2006, the Skip Barber National was renamed, with BFGoodrich taking over title sponsorship of the series. As part of this new partnership with Mazda, the Skip Barber National joined the MAZDASPEED Motorsports Development ladder, with the Skip Barber National Champion earning a fully funded season in the following year's Star Mazda Championship. The original ladder included the Skip Barber National, Star Mazda, and the Atlantic Championship. In 2010 this was changed with the replacement of the top of the ladder Atlantic Championship with the newly reformed U.S. F2000 Championship slotted between the Skip Barber National and the now top rung Star Mazda Championship. This overlaps with the Indy Racing League's new Road to Indy development ladder that includes U.S. F2000, Star Mazda, and Indy Lights.\n\nDrivers in the Skip Barber National earned points in 14 races, held over seven double-race weekends, with their worst single result dropped. Drivers also received a point for earning a pole position.\n\nThe Skip Barber Cup Championship was a separate class running with the BFGoodrich/Skip Barber National Presented by Mazda. Named in honor of company founder and former owner Skip Barber, the Skip Barber Cup Championship was open to drivers aged 26 and older who would like to race against the younger drivers at the marquee events offered in the 2010 National schedule, but were not eligible for the MAZDASPEED Motorsports Development system. Skip Barber Cup drivers competed for a separate championship and prize fund.\n\nSince 1998, every winter Skip Barber Racing School holds the Skip Barber Racing School Karting Scholarship Shootout, where karters gather to compete for scholarships for the upcoming season of racing, courtesy of MAZDASPEED Motorsports Development and FIA Motor Sport Safety Development Fund. Competitors learn everyday driving skills, attend media and motorsports seminars, practice interview skills and perform a series of sessions on track in Formula Skip Barber Race Cars. In the 2010 Shootout, the prizes consisted two scholarships for the entire 2011 race season of the BFGoodrich/Skip Barber National presented by Mazda, becoming MAZDASPEED Motorsports Development Scholarship Drivers. Other prizes typically include one half season in the Skip Barber National, one full season and three half seasons in the Skip Barber Regional Race Series.\n\nThe BFGoodrich/Skip Barber National Presented by Mazda ran its final season during the summer of 2011. The final race was at Lime Rock Park, Saturday, October 8, 2011.\n\nIn addition to the Skip Barber National Champions, several drivers currently racing in higher levels of international motorsport have raced, and won, in the Skip Barber National:\n\n"}
{"id": "12294284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12294284", "title": "Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan", "text": "Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan\n\nThe final and complete withdrawal of Soviet combatant forces from Afghanistan began on 15 May 1988 and ended on 15 February 1989 under the leadership of Colonel-General Boris Gromov.\n\nPlanning for the withdrawal of the Soviet Union (USSR) from the Afghanistan War began soon after Mikhail Gorbachev became the General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. Under the leadership of Gorbachev, the Soviet Union attempted to consolidate the PDPA's hold over power in the country, first in a genuine effort to stabilize the country, and then as a measure to save face while withdrawing troops. During this period, the military and intelligence organizations of the USSR worked with the government of Mohammad Najibullah to improve relations between the government in Kabul and the leaders of rebel factions.\n\nThe diplomatic relationship between the USSR and the United States improved at the same time as it became clear to the Soviet Union that this policy of consolidating power around Najibullah's government in Kabul would not produce sufficient results to maintain the power of the PDPA in the long run. The Geneva Accords, signed by representatives of the USSR, the USA, the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Republic of Afghanistan (thus renamed in 1987) on 14 April 1988, provided a framework for the departure of Soviet forces, and established a multilateral understanding between the signatories regarding the future of international involvement in Afghanistan. The military withdrawal commenced soon after, with all Soviet forces leaving Afghanistan by 15 February 1989.\n\nUnderstanding that the Soviet Union's troublesome economic and international situation was complicated by its involvement in the Afghan War, Gorbachev \"had decided to seek a withdrawal from Afghanistan and had won the support of the Politburo to do so [by October 1985]\". He later strengthened his support base at the top level of Soviet government further by expanding the Politburo with his allies. To fulfill domestic and foreign expectations, Gorbachev aimed to withdraw having achieved some degree of success. At home, Gorbachev was forced to satisfy the hawkish military-industrial complex, military leadership, and intelligence agencies (later, Gorbachev would tell UN Envoy Diego Cordovez that the impact of the war lobby should not be overestimated; Cordovez recalls that Gorbachev's advisors were not unanimous in this pronouncement, but all agreed that disagreements with the US, Pakistan, and realities in Kabul played a bigger role in delaying withdrawal). Abroad, Gorbachev aimed to retain prestige in the eyes of third-world allies. He, like Soviet leaders before him, considered only a dignified withdrawal to be acceptable. This necessitated the creation of stability within Afghanistan, which the Soviet Union would attempt to accomplish until its eventual withdrawal in 1988-9. Three objectives were viewed by Gorbachev as conditions needed for withdrawal: internal stability, limited foreign intervention, and international recognition of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan's Communist government.\n\nAfter the death of Leonid Brezhnev, the political will for Soviet involvement in Afghanistan dwindled. The level of Soviet forces in the country was not adequate to achieve exhaustive military victory, and could only prevent the allied DRA from losing ground. The Soviet Union began the gradual process of withdrawal from Afghanistan by instating Muhammed Najibullah Ahmadzai as the General Secretary of the Afghan Communist Party, seeing him to be capable of ruling without serious involvement from the Soviet Union. Babrak Karmal, Najibullah's predecessor, was deemed by the Soviet leadership to be an obstacle to both military withdrawal and the diplomatic process. Although Soviet military, diplomatic and intelligence agencies were not singleminded about his appointment, Najibullah was seen as a leader that could work with the Soviet Union in order to find a negotiated settlement. Mirroring shifts within the USSR itself, the Soviet effort in Afghanistan placed \"a much greater emphasis on pacification through winning over rebel commanders\" rather than transforming \"Afghanistan along Marxist lines [,] winning over the population through economic incentives and establishing a party and government influence in the cities and countryside\". As a whole, the policies the Soviet Union and their allies powers in Afghanistan pursued after the transition of power from Babrak to Najibullah were referred to as the Policy of National Reconciliation\n\nTo achieve reconciliation, the Soviet Union dedicated a serious effort to helping the Najibullah government establish relations with rebel factions, sent record packages of aid, and promised that \"absolutely all of the military infrastructure would be handed over to the DRA armed forces\" upon Soviet withdrawal. Najibullah achieved considerable success in reinvigorating the government security apparatus, and consolidating his power within the state. This, however, may have encouraged the Soviets to place excessive trust in Najibullah, and did not achieve the primary objective: meaningfully incorporating the opposition into Najibullah's support base. Kalinovsky writes:\n\nVadim Kirpichenko, deputy chief of the KGB First Directorate, later wrote that Najibullah's success in establishing more control within Kabul and some sectors of the government led them to believe that they had found a solution that could be replicated everywhere in Afghanistan: \"Faith in Najibullah and in the dependability of his security organs created illusions on the part of the KGB leadership. . . . These dangerous illusions, the unwillingness to look truth in the face, delayed the withdrawal of Soviet troops by several years.\" (99)\n\nThe Soviet-led attempts to encourage reconciliation were also complicated by mid-level military commanders, both Soviet and Afghan. While the military and political leadership of the USSR worked with the Najibullah government on raising the level of cooperation with rebel and tribal leaders, Soviet \"mid-ranking officers sometimes failed to grasp the political significance of their operations\" and the Afghan army had to be convinced \"to stop calling the opposition \"a band of killers,\" \"mercenaries of imperialism,\" \"skull-bashers,\"'. Nevertheless, some progress was achieved by Soviet intelligence agencies, military and diplomats in improving relations with rebel factions. The canonical example is the establishment of tentative collaboration with noted rebel commander and Afghan National Hero (posthumously) Ahmad Shah Massoud. Here too, however, relations were complicated by mid-level military realities, and even by Najibullah himself. Although the Soviet military leadership and diplomats had been in contact with Massoud since the early 80's, military operations against his troops, the DRA's insistence on his disarmament, and information leaks about his relations with the Soviets derailed progress towards achieving a formal ceasefire with him. Conversely, Najibullah was in ostensibly regular contact with unnamed rebel leaders \"through certain channels\", as Cordovez found out during his first meeting with the Afghan leader.\n\nPolitical reforms were enacted by the DRA government and their Soviet allies as part of the Policy of National Reconciliation. Generally, these reforms can be characterised as seeking to allow rebel factions to align with the government and state order in Afghanistan by stripping it of its Marxist-revolutionary agenda. Throughout 1987 the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan was renamed the Republic of Afghanistan, participation of all political parties in government was permitted conditional on their non-violence towards each other, and Afghanistan's Islamic identity was reassumed. These political reforms were met by scepticism from rebel leaders and PDPA members alike, and were generally unproductive. Cordovez and Harrison write:\n\nNajibullah's policy of \"national reconciliation\" went just far enough to antagonize hard-liners in the PDPA but not far enough to win over significant local tribal and ethnic leaders to support of his government.\n\nWithin the ruling party, the Policy of National Reconciliation was criticised by those who believed it would result in the PDPA losing power over the country, while the opponents of the PDPA and the Soviet Union dismissed the efforts as propaganda. Hampered by the slow pace at which top-level policy decisions were implemented on the ground, and realising that the Policy of National Reconciliation by itself would not result in a favourable outcome, the Soviet leadership began looking for alternate ways to create the necessary degree of stability in Afghanistan for a withdrawal to be permissible.\n\nBeginning in early 1987, Soviet faith in the Policy of National Reconciliation in the format in which it was initially conceived began to falter. While previously the preeminence of the PDPA in leadership, and the desired identity of Najibullah as the party leader was indisputable for the Soviet leadership, now the \"emerging consensus in the Politburo was that the PDPA would be but one of the political forces in power after Soviet troops left. Even Kryuchkov and Gromyko agreed that reconciliation would mean accepting that the PDPA would lose its leading position\". In a personal meeting on the July 20, 1987, Gorbachev again attempted to impress on Najibullah the need to incorporate opposition leaders into the Afghan government, but this effort, like earlier, was weakened by Najibullah's biliateral conversations with Shevarnadze and Kryuchkov. Najubullah retained a strong hold over Kabul and the government apparatus – bar internal divisions within the PDPA – but was not able to incorporate the opposition into the government in any meaningful way, instead giving out \"relatively powerless posts to prominent non-PDPA personalities who had until then neither supported nor opposed the government.\"\n\nFaced by the failure of the Policy of National Reconciliation to stabilise the country by itself, and hoping to benefit from the gradually thawing relationship with the United States, the Soviet Union pushed forward with its effort to attain a diplomatic solution that would limit Pakistani and American interference in Afghanistan. Throughout 1987, Soviet diplomats attempted to convince the United States to stop supplying the mujahideen with weaponry as soon as Soviet forces withdrew, and to reach an agreement on a power-sharing proposal that would permit the PDPA to remain a key actor in Afghan politics. Najibullah was receptive to the prior, but the Soviet Union did not manage to come to this agreement with the United States. From statements made by Secretary of State Shultz, the Soviet leadership came under the impression that the US would cease military shipments to the mujahideen immediately after Soviet withdrawal, with the condition that the USSR \"front-loaded\" its withdrawal (i.e. withdrew the majority of its troops in the beginning of the process, thereby complicating redeployment). This was conveyed to the Najibullah government, managing to convince him that the Soviet-American diplomatic effort would benefit the Kabul government.\n\nThis impression made by Shultz was false – though mixed signals were sent by various US officials at and around time of the summit, Reagan could not agree to stop arms shipments immediately . In late 1987, when this US commitment was conveyed to the Soviet Union, negotiations came to a halt, but proceeded tentatively as the White House and Department of State continued to make contradictory statements on the issue. The issue dissipated when the Department of State suggested that an immediate cessation of US military aid could occur if the Soviets did the same (prior, the US had agreed to an asymmetric cessation of aid, whereby the USSR would be allowed to continue supporting Kabul). On February 8, 1988, the Soviet leadership to announce a conditional date for the beginning of the military withdrawal (which the United States had insisted on for years) in an attempt to encourage the US to compromise on ceasing military shipments. This announcement failed to change the American position on shipments, and simultaneously decreased Soviet bargaining power at the negotiations. Nevertheless, Gorbachev decided that \n\nit was desirable to withdraw within the framework of an international agreement, however flawed, rather than to proceed independently. \"We weren't thinking only of Afghanistan,\" recalled Vadim Zagladin. \"There were many processes taking place at that time. The INF agreement on missiles in Europe was particularly important, and all of these things were interconnected.\"\n\nThis factor complicated convincing Najibullah to agree to the Geneva Accords, but he was eventually placated by Soviet promises to dramatically expand aid and assistance measures post-withdrawal. Although the USA was not bound under the Geneva Accords to cease its military aid, Pakistan (through which this aid flowed) was obligated to prevent cross-border armament flows to Afghanistan (Kalinovsky 149). On April 14, 1988 the Geneva Accords were signed between Pakistan and Afghanistan, with the USSR and US acting as guarantors, stating provisions for the withdrawal of Soviet forces and mutual non-interference between Pakistan and Afghanistan.\n\nThe withdrawal of Soviet military forces began on May 15, 1988, under the leadership of General of the Army Valentin Varennikov (with General Gromov commanding the 40th Army directly). As agreed, the withdrawal was \"front-loaded\", with half of the Soviet force leaving by August. The withdrawal was complicated, however, by the rapid deterioration of the situation in Afghanistan. While the US was not bound to stop arms shipments, and continued to supply the mujahideen in Pakistan, Pakistan did not deliver on its commitment to prevent weaponry and troops from flowing into Afghanistan. The mujahideen also continued their attacks on withdrawing Soviet forces. The Soviet Union repeatedly reported these violations of the Geneva Accords to UN monitoring bodies, and even pleaded with the US to influence the factions they supplied. The desire of the Soviet Union to withdraw, however, coupled with the United States' inability to control the behaviour of the mujahideen, meant that the Soviet objections did not bring any results. The following conversation between a Soviet diplomat and the CIA Islamabad station chief (as told by the latter in a book he co-authored), is cited by Kalinovsky: \n\nAs the Soviet withdrawal and rebel attacks continued, the deteriorating security of the Najibullah government caused policy disagreements between the different services of the Soviet Union. For example: while the Soviet military had succeeded in establishing a de facto cease-fire with Ahmad Shah Massoud's forces as Soviet troops withdrew through territories under his control, the KGB and Shevarnadze attempted to convince Gorbachev that an attack on Massoud was necessary to guarantee Najibullah's survival. In the words of Soviet military commanders, Najibullah himself also aimed to retain the Soviet military in Afghanistan – Generals Varennikov (in charge of the withdrawal operation), Gromov (commander of the 40th Army), and Sotskov (chief Soviet military advisor in Afghanistan) all pleaded with top Soviet military and political leadership to control Najibullah's attempts to use Soviet troops to achieve his own security, and to convey to him that the Soviet military would not stay in Afghanistan. After the departure of Yakovlev from the Politburo in the fall of 1988, Gorbachev adopted the Shevarnadze-KGB line of policy regarding supporting Najibullah at the cost of antagonising rebel factions, and a halt of the withdrawal was ordered on November 5, 1988. In December, Gorbachev decided to resume the withdrawal, but also to carry out an operation against Massoud, ignoring arguments from his advisors and military commanders on the ground. In January 1989, the Soviet withdrawal continued, and on January 23 Operation Typhoon began against the forces of Ahmad Shah Massoud.Up until the end of the military withdrawal, Shevarnadze and the head of the KGB unsuccessfully attempted to convince Gorbachev to retain a contingent of Soviet military volunteers in Afghanistan to defend land routes to Kabul. On February 15, the 40th Army finished their withdrawal from Afghanistan. General Gromov walked across the \"Bridge of Friendship\" between Afghanistan and the USSR last. When Gromov was met by Soviet TV crews while crossing the bridge, he swore at them profusely when they tried to interview him. Recalling the events in an interview with a Russian newspaper in 2014, Gromov said that his words were directed at \"the leadership of the country, at those who start wars while others have to clean up the mess.\"\n\nSoviet support for the Najibullah government did not end with the withdrawal of the regular troops. Aid totalling several billion dollars was sent by the Soviet Union to Afghanistan, including military aircraft (MiG-27s) and Scud missiles. Due primarily to this aid, the Najibullah government held onto power for much longer than the CIA and State Department expected. The mujahideen made considerable advances following the withdrawal of the Soviet contingent, and were even able to take and control several cities; nevertheless, they failed to unseat Najibullah until the spring of 1992. Following the coup of August 1991, the Soviet Union (and later the Russian Federation under Boris Yeltsin) cut aid to their Afghan allies. This had a severe impact on the Hizb-i Watan (formerly known as the PDPA), and on the armed forces, already weakened by their fight against the mujahideen and internal struggles – following an abortive coup attempt in March 1990, the Army (already encountering a critical lack of resources and critical rates of desertion) was purged. Ultimately, the cessation of Soviet aid and the instability that it caused allowed to the mujahideen to storm Kabul. Najibullah was removed from power by his own party, after which the mujahideen futilely attempted to form a stable coalition government. Disagreements and infighting between the likes of Massoud and Hekmatyar set the stage for the eventual rise of the Taliban.\n\n"}
{"id": "23770151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23770151", "title": "TORC: The Off-Road Championship", "text": "TORC: The Off-Road Championship\n\nTORC: The Off-Road Championship (TORC) is an American national short course off-road racing series. It tours throughout the United States featuring professional four and two-wheel-drive Trophy Trucks along with a Pro Light class. TORC was founded by off-road racing driver Ricky Johnson in 2009. It was known as the Traxxas TORC Series, owing to title sponsor Traxxas, from 2009–2013. It was purchased by The Armory in August 2013. It has been sanctioned and officiated by the United States Auto Club (USAC) since its inception.\n\nA multi-year deal between TORC and NBC Sports was announced in 2014 where it was confirmed that NBC would carry not only the series' on-track events but its docu-reality series as well. However, the series returned to Fox Sports in 2015. Coverage of events for 2016 and 2017 was broadcast by BeIN Sports. In March, 2018, the series announced that it would hold no events in 2018.\n\nThe series was founded in time for the 2009 season by former motocross racer and Motorcycle Hall of Fame member Ricky Johnson as the Traxxas TORC Series after hosting an off-road racing event at his Perris Auto Speedway in 2008. There were two large sanctioning bodies in short course off-road racing for 2008: CORR and WSORR. CORR had been sanctioning events on the West Coast and WSORR had sanctioned Midwest events. CORR closed before the end of the 2008 season and canceled its final two racing weekends. TORC took over the sanctioning of most of the Midwest events. \n\nUSAC assumed complete management of the series starting in 2010. The Armory took over ownership of the series in late 2013 to handle all marketing and operations of the series. USAC remained on board as the sanctioning body. One of The Armory's first acts was securing an exclusive 5-year agreement landing the series championship weekend at Crandon International Off-Road Raceway starting in 2014, ensuring no competing sanctions can race at the track. In late 2015, Mountain Sports International took over managing the series. MSI immediately announced adding sportsman racing back under its sanction starting in 2016.\n\nThe series was originally divided into PRO, Sportsman, and Grassroots divisions. The PRO division is headlined by a four-wheel drive or PRO 4WD trophy truck class. It also has a two-wheel drive trophy truck class or PRO 2WD and a light-duty two-wheel drive pickup truck class or PRO Light.\n\nThe series began with a Sportsman truck division, consisting of four- and two-wheel drive truck classes plus a stock truck class. Sportsman buggies featured regular 70 horsepower buggies plus a light class with restricted 55 horsepower engines. It had three grassroots classes all featuring stock vehicles. The Formula 4x4 trucks were stock 4x4 trucks or SUVs, Classix race cars were stock cars with modified suspensions, and the Enduro trucks were two wheel drive 3/4 ton pickup chassis. The Sportsman division later weren't sanctioned by TORC and a separate entity named called Midwest Off Road Racing (MORR). TORC restored the sportsman classes for the 2016 season after MSI took over its sanction.\n\nOther drivers to compete for TORC championships include: Brian Deegan, Chad Hord, Jarit Johnson, Rob MacCachren (second in 2010 and 2011 Pro 2WD), Scott Taylor and Olympian Nick Baumgartner.\n\nBefore the inaugural season, TORC announced that it secured an exclusive deal with Bark River International Raceway and a 15-year exclusive deal with Crandon International Off-Road Raceway. It partnered with NASCAR-related tracks in 2013 including Tony Stewart's Eldora Speedway and Friday and Saturday events in conjunction with the Sunday NASCAR Nationwide Series event at Chicagoland Speedway. TORC did not race at Chicagoland in 2014 but announced shortly after the completion of the season that it would once again host an event at the facility's dirt track in conjunction with the NASCAR Nationwide Series race there June 18–20, 2015.\n\n\nIn 2009, PRO events were televised on national television in the United States with ESPN2 covering the 2009 events at Texas, Crandon's spring event, both Bark River events, and the second Perris event. ABC televised the first 2009 event at Perris and it broadcast Crandon's World Championship Off-Road Races race live. Marty Reid was the lead play by play announcer along with Tes Sewell. Former Miss USA Kimberly Pressler was the pit reporter.\n\nFrom 2010 through 2012, \"The Off Road Championship\" aired on Discovery HD Theatre (now Velocity) and was produced by The Armory (www.thearmoryagency.com) with executive producer B.J. Birtwell. Season 1 consisted of twenty 1-hour episodes which aired from Sept 2010 to March 2011. Four seasons of the program have been produced. These shows featured a style which TORC refers to as docu-reality, the distinguishing feature of which consists of more talk and less live-style racing action coverage.\n\nFor 2013, Speed TV broadcast live coverage of the Saturday evening PRO truck events for all the race weekends, excepting the final September event at Primm which was scheduled for NBC. Speed covered two races live, which coverage was also reaired on Fuel. NBC also broadcast one event. The Armory continued to produce TORC's Television programming in 2014 and 2015 on NBC Sports and Fox Sports, respectively. Bobby Gerould and National Sprint Car Hall of Famer Brady Doty were the broadcast host and PXP announcers while noted motorsports broadcaster Tony Bokhoven was the Pit Reporter.\n\n"}
{"id": "3608104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3608104", "title": "Tatra Tiger", "text": "Tatra Tiger\n\n\"Tatra Tiger\" is a nickname that refers to the economy of Slovakia in period 2002 – 2007 and after 2010 following the ascendance of a right-wing coalition in September 2002 which engaged in a program of liberal economic reforms. The name \"Tatra Tiger\" derives from the local Tatra mountain range.\n\nIn 2004 and 2005, Slovakia had one of the highest gross domestic product growth rates in the European Union after some of the Baltic countries, reaching 6%. In 2006, the year-over-year growth amounted to an unexpected 9.8% in the 3rd quarter, which helped to increase the overall annual economy growth expectation for 2006 from 6%-6.5% to 8.2%. This 9.8% growth (a low estimate) can be partly ascribed to the launch of production at a new Peugeot SA plant. The growth came as a surprise to local analysts, given that another big foreign investor, Kia, launched its production in late 2006. In 4Q of 2007 the growth was 14.3%.\n\nHowever, public polling shows that despite the resultant high growth rates, the public does not universally approve of the reforms, because they are associated with a drastic loss of the (previously high) government programs (reform of the previously government-run health system, complete reform of the pension system, etc.), the replacement of progressive taxation with a flat tax, rapid changes of laws and other legal regulations, and rising property prices. Moreover, unemployment jumped to very high levels immediately after the reforms began in 1998, although it decreased back to its 1998 level in 2006 and even below later on.\n\nIn the first quarter of 2009 the fall of GDP was -5.7% but in the 2010 the GDP growth was a 4.8% for a first quarter.\n\nThese days Slovakia GDP still grows faster than the EU average, in period 2005-2011 the Slovakia GDP growth increased about 38.3% which is the highest growth between all EU countries. \n\nIn international dollars, at purchasing power parity (PPP) and Nominal GDP per capita. Numbers in brackets show the respective country's GDP per capita as a percentage of the European Union average (also measured at PPP).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57168275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57168275", "title": "The World's Best", "text": "The World's Best\n\nThe World's Best is an upcoming global talent competition series series set to air on CBS in the United States. Hosted by James Corden with Drew Barrymore, RuPaul and Faith Hill as judges. It will feature contestants from across the world with talents in any genre who will perform in front of the three judges as well as 50 international experts from various fields of entertainment. The winner will be crowned \"The World's Best\". The series is set to premiere on February 3, 2019 as the Super Bowl LIII lead-out and run for 10 episodes.\n"}
{"id": "59181558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59181558", "title": "Timeline of investigations into Trump and Russia (2019)", "text": "Timeline of investigations into Trump and Russia (2019)\n\nThis is a timeline of major events in 2019 related to the investigations into links between associates of Donald Trump and Russian officials that are suspected of being inappropriate. It follows the timeline of Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections and the timelines of investigations in 2017 and 2018. \n\n"}
{"id": "40748303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40748303", "title": "Trieste Film Festival", "text": "Trieste Film Festival\n\nThe Trieste Film Festival is an international film festival founded in 1989. Held annually on the third week of January in Trieste, it has become the leading festival of Central and Eastern Europe cinema in Italy.\n\n"}
{"id": "7012185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7012185", "title": "Vive Latino", "text": "Vive Latino\n\nVive Latino - Festival Iberoamericano de Cultura Musical is an annual music festival held in Mexico City. It is one of the most important music festivals in Mexico, featuring a great variety of groups of many genres.\n\nThe event takes place in Foro Sol usually in between the months of March and April. The duration of the festival has been either one or two days, depending on the number of live acts, but since 2010 the festival's length is between 2 or 3 days. The first edition was in 1998, and has been repeated yearly ever since (except for 1999 and 2002). The number of stages has changed over the time, ranging from 2 to 4.\n\nThe festival's concept is to every year gather important and newcoming bands from all over Ibero-America for three days to create a space for alternative music and new proposals from different Spanish-speaking bands. In the history of the festival there's been a series of important musical performances by many arstists from Latin America and Spain, such as Café Tacuba, Enrique Bunbury, Charly Garcia, Aterciopelados, Los Tres, Caifanes, Bersuit, El Cuarteto de Nos, Illya Kuryaki and the Valderramas, Los Planetas, Gustavo Cerati, Los Amigos Invisibles, Babasónicos, Miguel Ríos, Celso Piña, Los Jaigüey, El Tri, Los Ratones Paranoicos, Nortec Collective, Sepultura, Divididos, Transmetal, Ángeles del Infierno, 2 Minutos, Control Machete, Los Bunkers, etc.\n\nBesides Ibero-American musical acts, the festival has been opened for proposals from all over the world, with special appearances by Latin bands located in the U.S. such as Los Lobos, Tito & Tarantula, Devendra Banhart, Ill Niño, Brujeria, The Mars Volta, Los Straitjackets, Rodrigo y Gabriela, Ozomatli, and Los Abandoned. The festival bill has also had non-Spanish speaking acts like The Magic Numbers, Black Rebel Motorcycle Club, The Chemical Brothers, Urlaub in Polen, Blasted Mechanism, Calexico, Jane's Addiction, The National, DeVotchKa, Deftones, and Marky Ramone among others.\n\nEvery year the festival's line up has a strong presence in the ska and reggae acts, having big figures of the genre such as The Wailers, The Skatalites, Desmond Dekker, Fishbone, Tokyo Ska Paradise Orchestra, Steel Pulse, Reel Big Fish, and Save Ferris, besides the performances from important ibero-American bands like Panteón Rococó, Los Fabulosos Cadillacs, Ska-P, Los Autenticos Decadentes, Desorden Público, and Maldita Vecindad.\n\nAs the festival itself is not limited to rock acts, it has often acts of entirely unrelated music genres. This, however, proved to be disastrous in the 2007 edition, which included a Reggaetón act by Calle 13, that angered a big section of the public, which booed and even threw bottles and objects at the stage forcing the band to leave.\n\nAterciopelados, Café Tacuba, Molotov (band), Maldita Vecindad, Illya Kuryaki, Control Machete, Todos Tus Muertos, Ángeles del Infierno, Tijuana No, El Gran Silencio, La Cuca, Las Víctimas del Doctor Cerebro, Resorte, Sekta Core, Los Esquizitos, Titan, Los de Abajo, Guillotina, Salón Victoria, Riesgo de contagio, Flor De Lingo, Quehaceres De Mama, Ozomatli, El Tri, Miguel Ríos, Juan Perro, Danza Invisible, La Lupita, Cecilia Toussaint, Aterciopelados, Los Tres, Santa Sabina, La Barranca, Julieta Venegas, La Castañeda, Ritmo peligroso, Kenny y los Eléctricos, La Gusana Ciega, Julio revueltas, Ely Guerra, La Dosis, Poncho Kingz, La Ley\n\nSaturday, 11 November - Sunday, 12 November \n\nHabana, Tito & Tarantula, Ely Guerra, Zurdok, Panteón Rococó, Los Auténticos Decadentes, Mariachi Terror, La Castañeda, Ganadores De La Resistencia, Los Amigos Invisibles, Dover, Fishbone, The Wailers, Ska-P, Molotov, Los Fabulosos Cadillacs, Los Tetas, Sekta Core, Desorden Público, Divididos, Resorte, La Gusana Ciega, Julieta Venegas, Jumbo, Los Pericos, El Gran Silencio, Enrique Bunbury, Jaguares\n\nSaturday, 24 November \n\nBersuit, Desorden Público, El Gran Silencio, Genitallica, Havana, José Fors, Joselo, La Lupita, La Verbena Popular, Liquits, Los de Abajo, Los Estrambóticos, Lucybell, Maldita Vecindad, Moderatto, Panteón Rococó, Pericos, Puya, Resorte, Revólver, Save Ferris, Zurdok\n\nSunday, 11 May \n\nAterciopelados, Babasónicos, Café Tacuba, Cartel de Santa, El Gran Silencio, Enanitos Verdes, Los Estrambóticos, Genitallica, Guillotina, Jumbo, Kinky, Los de Abajo, Los Tetas, Molotov, Natalia Lafourcade, Panteón Rococó, Pito Perez, Resorte, Televisión Kamikaze, Las Ultrasónicas, Vicentico\n\nSunday, 9 May \n\nÁngeles del Infierno, Antidoping, Azul Violeta, Babasónicos, Bersuit, Cartel de Santa, Catupecu Machu, Crista Galli, Chancho en Piedra, Circo, Control Machete, Cuca, Dildo, Ely Guerra, Fobia, Haragán y Cia, Ill Niño, Julieta Venegas, Kinky, La Barranca, Liquits, Los Amantes de Lola, Los Auténticos Decadentes, Lost Acapulco, Lucybell, Maldita Vecindad, Moderatto, Rata Blanca, Santa Sabina, Televisión Kamikaze, The Mars Volta, Vaquero, Volumen Cero, Zoé\n\nSunday, 16 April \n\nAustin TV, Babasónicos, Big Metra, Botellita de Jeréz, Cartel de Santa, Catupecu Machu, De saloon, Desmond Decker, División Minúscula, Ely Guerra, Estrambóticos, Grandmama, Jarabe de Palo, La Casta, La Lupita, Liquits, Lira n' Roll, Los Abandoned, Los de abajo, Los Látigos, Los Shajatos, LVzbel, macaco, Mario, Moderatto, Molotov, Panteón Rococó, Pericos, Porter, Quiero Club, San Pascualito Rey, Skatalites, Sussie 4, Telefunka, Thermo, Tólidos, Vicentico, Zoé, Zuker XP.\n\nSaturday, 13 May - Sunday, 14 May \n\nAllison, Amaral, Austin TV, Bengala, Brujeria, Charly Montana, Disidente, División Minúscula, El Gran Silencio, Elis Paprika, Fobia, Kinky, Líbido, Los Abandoned, Los de abajo, Los Dynamite, Los planetas, Lost Acapulco, Lucybell, Nortec Collective, Panteón Rococó, Pato Machete, Plastiko, Rastrillos, Resorte, San Pascualito Rey, Thermo, Vaquero, Yucatán A Go Go, Zurdok, Agora, Bersuit, Big Metra, Celtas cortos, Chetes, Desorden Público, Dildo, Instituto Mexicano del Sonido, Joselo, Jumbo, Julieta Venegas, La Gusana Ciega, Los Auténticos Decadentes, Los Búnkers, Los Esquizitos, Los Super Elegantes (Milena Muzquiz and Martiniano Lopez), Los Tres, Maria Daniela y su Sonido Lasser, Niña, Ozomatli, Palomazo informativo, Panda, Plastilina Mosh, Porter, San Pascualito Rey, Satin Dolls, Tex Tex, Titán, Tolidos, Turf, Víctimas del Dr. Cerebro, Zoé.\n\nSaturday, 5 May - Sunday, 6 May \n\nAustin TV, Becker, Bengala, Café Tacvba, COhETICA, Calle 13, Canseco, Gustavo Cerati, Chetes, Chikita Violenta, Nortec Collective, Mariachi Terror, Columpio Asesino, Cuarteto de nos, Cuca, Desorden Público, Devendra Banhart, División Minúscula, El Tri, Ely Guerra, Fenómeno fuzz, Finde, Flavio Cianciarulo, Fobia, Furland, Gondwana, Hana, Instituto Mexicano del Sonido, Jessy Bulbo, Jumbo, Kill Aniston, Kinky, La gusana ciega, La Tremenda Korte, Liquits, Los Amigos Invisibles, Los Bunkers, Los Dynamite, Los Gatos, Los Licuadora, Los Músicos de José, Los Piojos, No somos machos pero somos muchos, Ozomatli, Pastilla, Porter, Quiero Club, Rata Blanca, Réplica, San Pascualito Rey, Sargent García, Satin Dolls, Six Million Dollar Weirdo, Sonidero Nacional, Sr. Bikini, Steel Pulse, Tanke, The Cosmetics, The Locos, The Magic Numbers, Transmetal, Veo Muertos, Volován, Zoé\n\nSaturday, 14 May - Sunday, 15 May \n\nBlack Rebel Motorcycle Club, Reel Big Fish, Jarabe de Palo, Los Lobos, Babasónicos, Bersuit Vergarabat, The Wailers, Plastilina Mosh, Panteón Rococó, Los Tres, Los Cafres, El Gran Silencio, Panda (band), Todos Tus Muertos, Los Piojos, Nortec Collective, Los Auténticos Decadentes, La Habitación Roja, Los Straitjackets, El Otro Yo, Maldita Vecindad, Sussie 4, Liquits, Los Dynamite, Kapanga, Lost Acapulco, Javiera Mena, Botellita de Jerez, Santa Sabina, Quiero Club, Thermo, Insite, Niña, Los Fancy Free, Árbol, Dildo, Caramelos de Cianuro, Descartes a Kant, Tolidos, Disidente, Urlaub in Polen, Ceci Bastida, Los Daniels, Ángeles del Infierno, Le Baron, Ventilader, dante, Tren Loco, Satin Dolls, El Haragan, Los Mentas, Los Ratones Paranoicos, Los Caligaris, Sonidero Nacional, yokozuna, Kill Aniston, Gerardo Enciso, pato machete, Pánico Ramírez, DLD, Troker, Lawson, The Volture, Payro, Electric Co., Jackie'O, $6M Weirdo, Ágora and Sr. Flavio\n\nSaturday, 27 June - Sunday, 28 June \n\nLos Fabulosos Cadillacs, Andrés Calamaro, Molotov, Kinky, Jaguares, Zoé, Los Bunkers, La Vela Puerca, Gondwana, La Gusana Ciega, Little Joy, La Fuga, Ximena Sariñana, Nortec Collective, La Lupita, Petra, Instituto Mexicano del Sonido, Austin TV, Fidel Nadal, Blasted Mechanism, Gepe, San Pascualito Rey, Hello Seahorse!, Vetusta Morla, Inspector, La Castañeda, Victimas Del Doctor Cerebro, Dios, Anita Tijoux, Monocordio, Casino, División Minúscula, Bengala, Hummersqueal, Silverio, Los Concorde, finde, La Pulqueria, Mariachi Terror, Rescate, Los Gatos, Jaramar, Guillotina, Volován, Los Daniels, Banda De Turistas, Cabezas de Cera, Adanowsky, Sekta Core, Bill, Marky Ramone, Los Esquizitos, Satin Dolls, Hana, Salón Victoria, Enjambre, Yokozuna, Fratta, Los Dorados, Paté de Fuá, Fenómeno Fuzz, Simplifires, Cienfue, Sr Mandril, Niña Dioz, Alonso Arreola, Ritmo Peligroso, Neon Walrus, Lemons, El Clan, Banda bostik, Alejandro Otaola, Maligno, Los Marty, Los Weeds, Play&Movil Project, discoRUIDO!, Atto & The Majestics, Oh My Oh, Consumatum Est, Dirty Karma, Clondementto, Santiago Behm, Pila Seca, Zordem, Mongol Gol Gol, The Satura, Desarmado and zanate y asociados.\n\nFriday, 23 April - Sunday, 25 April \n\nAbominables, Ágora, Aguamala, Andrés Cantisani, Astro, Aterciopelados, Austin TV, Banda de Turistas, Bocafloja, Calexico, Calle 13, Carca, Cecilia Toussaint, Celso Piña, Cienfue, Corcobado, Cráneo de Jade, Crista Galli, Cuca, Chetes, DaPuntoBeat, Deftones, Descartes a Kant, DLD, Dr Frankenstein (ópera rock), Dr Krapula, El Cuarteto de Nos, Ely Guerra, Empire of the Sun, Estados Alterados, Francisca Valenzuela, Furland, Hello Seahorse! (surprise guest band), Juan Pablo Villa Julieta Venegas, Kafka Jones, Kapanga, Kenny (from Kenny and the Electrics), Kimah, Klemerzon, Kumbia Queers, La Chilanga Habanera, Le Butcherettes, LeBaron, Liber Teran, Liran'roll, Los Amigos Invisibles, Los Auténticos Decadentes, Los Mentas, Los Músicos de José, Los Negretes, Los Odio, Los Románticos de Zacatecas, Los Tres, Lost Acapulco, Malacates Trébol Shop, Mago de Oz, Manuel García, Misterio, Monte Negro, Muna Zul, Mystica Girls, Nacho Vegas, Nos Llamamos, Ozomatli, Panteón Rococó, Paté de Fua, Pedro Piedra, Polka Madre, Pato Machete, Qué Payasos, Quiero Club, Rise Against, Rodrigo y Gabriela, Rostros Ocultos, Salón Victoria, San Pascualito Rey (surprise guest band), Silverio, Ska-P, Sonex, Sussie 4, Thermo, Tijuana No!, Todos Tus Muertos, Troker, Ventilader, Veo Muertos, Vicente Gayo, Víctimas del Doctor Cerebro, Victoria Mil.\n\nFriday, 8 April - Sunday, 10 April \n| style=\"width:25%; vertical-align:top; text-align:left; border:0;\"|\n\n\nFriday, 23 March - Sunday, 25 March \n| style=\"width:25%; vertical-align:top; text-align:left; border:0;\"|\n\nThursday, 14 March - Sunday, 17 March\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1368450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1368450", "title": "Wirtschaftswunder", "text": "Wirtschaftswunder\n\nThe term Wirtschaftswunder (, \"economic miracle\"), also known as the Miracle on the Rhine, describes the rapid reconstruction and development of the economies of West Germany and Austria after World War II (adopting an ordoliberalism-based social market economy). The expression referring to this phenomenon was first used by \"The Times\" in 1950.\n\nBeginning with the replacement of the Reichsmark with the Deutsche Mark in 1948 as legal tender (the Schilling was similarly re-established in Austria), a lasting period of low inflation and rapid industrial growth was overseen by the government led by West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer and his Minister of Economics, Ludwig Erhard, who went down in history as the \"father of the German economic miracle.\" In Austria, efficient labor practices led to a similar period of economic growth.\n\nThe era of economic growth raised West Germany and Austria from total wartime devastation to developed nations in modern Europe. At the founding of the European Common Market in 1957 West Germany's economic growth stood in contrast to the struggling conditions at the time in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe fundamental reason for the quick economic recovery of West Germany can be found in the ordoliberal growth model. West Germany had a skilled workforce and a high technological level in 1946, but its capital stock had largely been destroyed during and after the war. This small capital stock was compounded by the difficulty in converting the German economy to the production of civilian goods, as well as rampant monetary and regulatory problems, leading to an unusually low economic output during the first post-war years.\n\nThese initial problems were overcome by the time of the currency reform of 1948, which replaced the Reichsmark with the Deutsche Mark as legal tender, halting rampant inflation. This act to strengthen the West German economy had been explicitly forbidden during the two years that JCS 1067 was in effect. JCS 1067 had directed the U.S. forces of occupation in West Germany to \"take no steps looking toward the economic rehabilitation of Germany\".\n\nAt the same time, the government, following Erhard's advice, cut taxes sharply on moderate incomes. Walter Heller, a young economist with the U.S. occupation forces who was later to become chairman of President Kennedy's Council of Economic Advisers, wrote in 1949 that to \"remove the repressive effect of extremely high rates, Military Government Law No. 64 cut a wide swath across the German tax system at the time of the currency reform.\" Individual income tax rates, in particular, fell dramatically. Previously the tax rate on any income over 6,000 Deutschmark had been 95 percent. After tax reform, this 95 percent rate applied only to annual incomes above 250,000 Deutschmark. For the West German with an annual income of about 2,400 Deutschmark in 1950, the marginal tax rate fell from 85 percent to 18 percent.\nThe Allied dismantling of the West German coal and steel industries decided at the Potsdam Conference was virtually completed by 1950; equipment had then been removed from 706 manufacturing plants in the west and steel production capacity had been reduced by 6,700,000 tons. Although the industrially important Saarland with its rich coal fields was returned to West Germany in 1957, it remained economically integrated in a customs union with France until 1959 and France extracted coal from the area until 1981.\n\nWest Germany proceeded quickly after 1948 to rebuild its capital stock and thus to increase its economic output at stunning rates. The very high capital investment rate thanks to low consumption and a very small need for replacement capital investments (due to the still small capital stock) drove this recovery during the 1950s. Living standards also rose steadily, with the purchasing power of wages increasing by 73% from 1950 to 1960. As noted by the British journalist Terence Prittie in the early Sixties:\n\nProductivity growth in West Germany enabled most workers to obtain significant improvements in their living standards and 'security of life.' In addition, as noted by David Eversley,\n\nIn addition to the physical barriers that had to be overcome for the West German economic recovery, there were also intellectual challenges. The Allies confiscated intellectual property of great value, all German patents, both in Germany and abroad, and used them to strengthen their own industrial competitiveness by licensing them to Allied companies.\n\nImmediately after the German surrender and for the next two years, the U.S. pursued a vigorous program to harvest all technological and scientific know-how as well as all patents in Germany. John Gimbel's book \"Science Technology and Reparations: Exploitation and Plunder in Postwar Germany\" concludes the \"intellectual reparations\" taken by the U.S. and the UK amounted to close to $10 billion.\n\nDuring the more than two years this policy was in place, new industrial research in Germany was hampered because it was unprotected and freely available to overseas competitors, encouraged by occupation authorities to access all records and facilities.\n\nMeanwhile, thousands of the best German researchers and engineers were working in the Soviet Union and in the U.S. See Operation Osoaviakhim, Operation Paperclip.\n\nThe Marshall Plan was only extended to Western Germany after it was realized the suppression of its economy was holding back the recovery of other European countries and was not the main force behind the \"Wirtschaftswunder\". Had that been the case, other countries such as the United Kingdom, which received much greater economic assistance than West Germany, should have experienced the same phenomenon. However, often overlooked is the effect of the \"unofficial contributions\" of 150,000 U.S. occupation troops, earning as much as 4 Deutschmark to the dollar. These marks were spent within West Germany to buy food, luxury items, beer and cars, as well as entertaining the locals and for prostitutes. During exercises such numbers of soldiers would swell to over 250,000. Nonetheless, the amount of monetary aid, which was mainly in the form of loans, about $1.4 billion, was greatly overshadowed by the amount the Germans had to pay back as war reparations and by the charges the Allies made on the Germans for the ongoing cost of the occupation, about $2.4 billion per year. In 1953 it was decided that Germany would repay $1.1 billion of the aid it had received. The last repayment was made in June 1971.\n\nThe demands of the Korean War in 1950–53 led to a global shortage of goods that helped overcome lingering resistance to the purchase of West German products. At the time West Germany had a large pool of skilled labour, partly as a result of the deportations and migrations which affected up to 16.5 million Germans. This helped West Germany to more than double the value of its exports during and shortly after the war. Apart from these factors, hard work and long hours at full capacity among the population in the 1950s, 1960s and early 1970s and extra labour supplied by thousands of \"Gastarbeiter\" (\"guest workers\", since the late 1950s) provided a vital base for the sustainment of the economic upturn with additional workforce.\n\nFrom the late 1950s onwards, West Germany had one of the world's strongest economies. The East German economy also showed strong growth, but not as much as in West Germany, due to the bureaucratic system, emigration of working-age East Germans to West Germany and continued reparations to the USSR in terms of resources. Unemployment hit a record low of 0.7–0.8% in 1961–1966 and 1970–1971.\n\nLudwig Erhard, who served as Minister of the Economy in Chancellor Adenauer's cabinet from 1949 until 1963 and would later rise to Chancellor himself, is often associated with the West German \"Wirtschaftswunder\".\n\nAustria was also included in the Marshall Plan and can thus be included in any consideration of the \"Wirtschaftswunder\". Through the nationalisation of key industries (VOEST, AMAG, Steyr-Puch) and yet more long working hours, full economic capacity was reached. Using West Germany as a guide, the currency was stabilised when the Schilling was reintroduced in place of the Reichsmark. This economic policy was known in journalistic circles as the \"Raab-Kamitz-Kurs\", named after Julius Raab, Austrian chancellor from 1953, and his Finance Minister Reinhard Kamitz similar to the West German \"Adenauer-Erhard-Kurs\".\n\nBy state major projects such as the Kaprun hydroelectric plant or the West Autobahn, unemployment fell and social peace was ensured. In the 1950s the first \"Gastarbeiter\" from Southern Italy and Greece arrived in the country, as more manual labour was required to maintain the economic upswing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52239153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52239153", "title": "Yes California", "text": "Yes California\n\nThe Yes California Independence Campaign is an American political action committee, founded by Louis J. Marinelli, that promotes the secession of the state of California from the United States.\n\nThe organization promoted a proposed initiative to be placed on the 2018 California state ballot, which, if it had passed, would have required an independence plebiscite to be held in March 2019 on the question of California's independence. In order to comply with federal law, however, it would have still required an amendment to the United States Constitution. In January 2017, the office of California Secretary of State Alex Padilla gave its approval for the organization to gather petition signatures to put the initiative on the ballot. The organization then halted their efforts later in April, stating that they want to re-tool their proposal and campaign.\n\nYes California formed in August 2015, succeeding the Sovereign California campaign. The campaign adopted its name and logo from Yes Scotland, a campaign group from the 2014 independence referendum in Scotland. The campaign has earned the nicknames \"Caleavefornia\", \"Califrexit\", and \"Calexit\" (after Brexit, the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union).\n\nThere have been more than 200 proposals for the secession of California over the state's history. The last instance of secession in the United States happened in 1861, when 11 states left the Union and formed the Confederate States of America. These states returned to the Union in 1865 after the Confederacy was defeated in the American Civil War. The Supreme Court decided in Texas v. White in 1869 that no state had the right to unilaterally leave the Union. Secession would thus require the approval of 38 state legislatures and two-thirds majorities in both the US House of Representatives and Senate, to pass a Constitutional amendment, as the Constitution provides no mechanism for state secession. Analysts consider California's secession improbable.\n\nThe hashtag #Calexit trended in social media as the campaign gained attention in the wake of the election of Donald Trump to the presidency in November 2016; California gave Hillary Clinton 61.5% of the vote to Trump's 33.2%. Marinelli asserted this was evidence of the political divide between the state and nation, saying California is more progressive than the rest of the country and that Californians were offended by Trump's statements about minorities.\n\nThe campaign staged protests outside the Capitol building in Sacramento after the November 2016 election, though its organizers asserted the protests had been planned months in advance and would have been held, regardless of who won the election. Immediately following the election, the campaign received 11,000 emails.\n\nOn November 21, 2016, the Yes California campaign submitted an initiative for signature gathering, with an amendment sent later on December 23 to correct a typo. If passed by voters in November 2018, it would have repealed Article III, Section 1 of the California Constitution, which states California is \"an inseparable part\" of the U.S., and require an independence plebiscite to be held on March 5, 2019, on the question of California's independence, the passage of which would have required at a minimum 50% voter turnout and 55% voting yes. If the proposed 2019 independence referendum were to pass, the Governor of California would have then been required to apply for California to join the United Nations.\n\nOn January 26, 2017, the office of California Secretary of State Alex Padilla gave its approval for the signature gathering process to begin.\n\nThe \"Washington Post\" reported on February 18 that the Yes California campaign had opened up to 53 chapters across the state, but had not yet reported contributions to the California Secretary of State's office.\n\nThe campaign then ran into controversy due to its president, Louis J. Marinelli, a New Yorker living in Russia, who was reported to have received significant assistance from the Russian government to promote his efforts. Marinelli announced on December 18, 2016, that the Yes California campaign had opened an \"embassy\" in Moscow as a cultural centre to help educate Russians about California's history, boost trade, and promote tourism. The Moscow office was partially funded by a Kremlin-backed charity linked to Russian President Vladimir Putin, while the Anti-Globalization Movement of Russia provided the office space rent-free.\n\nOn April 17, in the context of the alleged Russian interference in the 2016 elections, the Yes California organization announced that it had decided to halt its efforts to seek a clean break from the controversy surrounding Marinelli's connections to Russia, and to re-tool its proposal and campaign. Marinelli also announced that he would seek permanent residence in Russia. Still, BBC News reported in November 2017 that it found evidence that social media accounts with ties to Russia had pushed a huge Twitter trend in favor of an independent California on election night 2016.\n\nAs per the California ballot proposition process, the California Legislative Analyst's Office filed a report on the proposed initiative's estimated fiscal effects. This report noted that the proposed initiative could be challenged in California courts on grounds that it would be \"an unconstitutional revision of California's basic governmental framework\". Under the California Constitution, such proposals that would make \"far reaching changes in the nature of [California's] basic governmental plan\" or \"substantially alter the basic governmental framework set forth in the [California] Constitution\" can only be placed before voters by either the California Legislature or a state constitutional convention, and not via a voter initiative. For example, a California court could consider whether the repealing of Article III, Section 1, stating that California is \"an inseparable part\" of the U.S., would be such a major revision. Yes California argues that this not a major revision, based on the California Supreme Court's test in \"Legislature v. Eu\" that a revision \"must necessarily or inevitably appear from the face of the challenged provision that the measure will substantially alter [California's] basic governmental framework\".\n\nThe Legislative Analyst's report also noted the tens of millions of dollars that would have to be spent by state and local governments to hold an additional statewide election on March 2019.\n\nWere California to actually become its own separate nation, the major economic and budgetary impacts for both the current state and local governments are unknown. Among these would be the \"sorting out of the liabilities, property holdings, border arrangements, military infrastructure, and other details\" relevant to not only a relationship with the U.S., but also dealing with the military, trade, customs, and other relationships with other countries.\n\nFurthermore, even if the Governor of California were to apply for California to join the United Nations, the Legislative Analyst's report cites\nChapter II of the United Nations Charter: new member applications must go through the UN Security Council, and that the United States, as a permanent member, has the ability to block such applications.\n\nCalifornia has the sixth largest economy in the world and a population larger than Poland. The Yes California campaign argues that the state suffers under federal overregulation, that the state contributes more federal tax than it receives in federal funding, that the state feels isolated from political power in Washington, D.C., and that there is a wide gap between the political and cultural differences of California and the rest of the country. For example, California disagrees with much of the rest of the country on immigration and environmental policies.\n\nIn an op-ed piece published by the \"San Jose Mercury News\", Marcus Ruiz Evans of Yes California wrote that, \"No one is going to pull money out of California if it secedes, no one is going to invade, no one is going to stop trading – there is too much money invested here, too many deals already going on. The world will not let the California economy be disrupted.\"\n\nAt a forum held by the campaign in Los Angeles on February 13, 2017, led by Evans and Marinelli, they argued that California annually loses about $70 billion by subsidizing other states and military overseas, which could instead be used elsewhere. Marinelli also stated that taxes could be lowered enough so that \"we may not need to have a state income tax anymore\".\n\nHowever, the \"Washington Post\" reported on February 18 that the Yes California campaign does not have exact policy positions, nor do they exactly know how a new independent California government would be set up: \"The group's goal is to first have the state secede and then figure out how it should run\".\n\nIn a January 2017 interview with \"The New York Times\", businessman, philanthropist, and PayPal cofounder Peter Thiel endorsed Calexit, saying, \"I think it would be good for California, good for the rest of the country. It would help [U.S. President] Trump's re-election campaign.\"\n\nIn July 2018, the objectives of the Calexit initiative were expanded upon by including a plan to carve out an “autonomous Native American nation” that would take up the eastern part of California, and \"postponing its ballot referendum approach in favor of convincing Republican states to support their breakaway efforts.\"\n\nAn op-ed piece published by the \"Los Angeles Times\" stated that California independence \"would be a disaster for progressive values\" because the U.S. Democratic Party would lose California's 55 electoral votes, its two U.S. senators and its delegation to the House of Representatives, and without California, Donald Trump would have won the popular vote of the 2016 presidential election: \"For decades California has exerted more influence on American politics and culture than vice versa ... it would practically ensure that the rest of the U.S. would drift farther away from our laid-back tolerance and easygoing diversity ... if the United States minus California continues to do little or nothing to combat climate change, Californians — along with the rest of the world — will suffer.\"\n\nIn an editorial, the \"San Jose Mercury News\" called Calexit, \"a colossally stupid idea ... [that] will start us down a costly, intellectually draining, dead-end path into a world of overwhelming unknowns\". The editorial board of \"The San Diego Union-Tribune\" wrote that it is \"a waste of time ... [that] reflects a defeatist attitude — that instead of fighting to shape this country’s future, we should just quit. It also reflects a willingness to give up on America\".\n\nLos Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti has stated that he opposes Calexit, saying, \"I want to be a part of an America that continues to stand up for all of us, not bail on all our friends across the country.\"\n\nBefore the Yes California campaign withdrew their initial proposal, former Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta had warned KGO-TV about Russia's connections to Marinelli: \"We're a big state. With a tremendous impact in terms of this country's economy and politics ... If you can weaken the leadership of the United States in the world, Russia can be able to get away with a lot more of what they want to do.\"\n\n\n"}
