{"id": "404952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=404952", "title": "Abdul Majid", "text": "Abdul Majid\n\nAbdul Majid () is a Muslim male given name and, in modern usage, surname. It is built from the Arabic words \"Abd\", \"al-\" and \"Majid\". The name means \"servant of the All-glorious\", \"Al-Majīd\" being one of the names of God in the Qur'an, which give rise to the Muslim theophoric names.\n\nThe letter \"a\" of the \"al-\" is unstressed, and can be transliterated by almost any vowel, often by \"e\". So the first part can appear as Abdel, Abdul or Abd-al. The second part may appear as Majid, Majeed, Mecid (Turkish), Magid (Egyptian) or in other ways. The whole name is subject to variable spacing and hyphenation. \n\nThere is a distinct but closely related name, Abdul Maajid (), with a similar meaning, formed on the Qur'anic name \"Al-Mājid\". The two names are difficult to distinguish in transliteration, and some of the names below are instance of the latter one.\n\nIt may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35335955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35335955", "title": "Abdurahman Al Qadri, Sultan", "text": "Abdurahman Al Qadri, Sultan\n\nSyarif Abdur Rahman al-Qadri (born on 23 October 1771 (14 Rajab 1185 H)) was the founding father and the first Sultan of Pontianak, Indonesia.\n\nSyarif Abdur Rahman al-Qadri went from Mempawah to build new settlements, in the present city of Pontianak, the capital of West Kalimantan province. Pontianak city was occupied as a place of settlement on 11 December 1771(4 Ramadhan 1185 H). Syarif Abdur Rahman al-Qadri inaugurated as king of Pontianak on 1 September 1778 (8 Syaban 1192 H).\nDelegates from the Dutch government of Batavia came to Pontianak in 1780, named Ardi William Palam Petter asked Sultan Syarif Abdur Rahman to inhabit the country of Pontianak.\n\nSultan Syarif Abdur Rahman al-Qadri died on Friday evening, at 11.00, on 28 February 1808 (1st Muharram 1223 H).\n"}
{"id": "16551752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16551752", "title": "Anagnostis Striftombolas", "text": "Anagnostis Striftombolas\n\nAnagnostis Striftombolas (Greek: Αναγνώστης Στριφτόμπολας; 1778–1821) was a Greek revolutionary leader.\n\nHe was born in 1778 in Mesorrougi near Kalavryta and Akrata. He was a schoolmaster in Tripolitsa in 1800, he was educated with children's notes and learned the art of war especially on knowing how to use a knife. He was an irreconcilable enemy of the Turks and continuously to quarrel with them, one day, he killed a Turk. Movably, he fled to Zakynthos (then Zante) where he was enrolled into the British Army. He returned to Tripolitsa in 1818 as a bodyguard of Asimakis Fotilas, he became ill and Fotilas which he asked and once again returned to Zakynthos. He returned to the same city for the second time and exercised vocationally with a watchmaker but not for a long time. He went to Kertezi near Kalavryta, formed a strategic body of 15 men and battled at Levidi where he was killed on 14 April 1821.\n\n"}
{"id": "3460644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3460644", "title": "Angelica Balabanoff", "text": "Angelica Balabanoff\n\nAngelica Balabanoff (or Balabanov, Balabanova; – \"Anzhelika Balabanova\"; 4 August 1878 – 25 November 1965) was a Russian-Jewish-Italian communist and social democratic activist. She served as secretary of the Comintern and later became a political party leader in Italy.\n\nBalabanoff was born into a wealthy family in Chernihiv, Russian Empire, where she rebelled against her mother's strictness. While attending the Université Libre de Bruxelles in Brussels, Belgium, she was exposed to political radicalism. After her graduation with degrees in philosophy and literature, she settled in Rome and began to organize immigrant workers in the textile industry, joining the Partito Socialista Italiano (Italian Socialist Party, which she later became the leader of) in 1900. She became closely associated with Antonio Labriola, Giacinto Menotti Serrati, Benito Mussolini, and Filippo Turati (the founder of the Italian Socialist Party).\n\nShe moved further to the left during the First World War, becoming active in the Zimmerwald Movement. During the war, she spent some time in exile in neutral Sweden, where she was affiliated with the Left Socialist movement and became a close friend of the Swedish Communist leaders Ture Nerman, Fredrik Ström, Zeth Höglund and Kata Dalström.\n\nWhen the Russian Revolution broke out in 1917, Balabanoff joined the Bolshevik Party and travelled to Russia. According to Emma Goldman, she became disillusioned with the style of socialism in Russia and \"[she] had become rooted in the soil of Italy.\" Balabanoff told Goldman of her discomfort about temporarily living in the Narishkin Palace. She became secretary of the Communist Third International in 1919 and worked alongside Vladimir Lenin, Leon Trotsky, Grigory Zinoviev, and Emma Goldman, as well as many others. She became an open critic of Bolshevism and left Russia in 1922, travelling back to Italy and joining with Giacinto Menotti Serrati. After Serrati left to rejoin the Communists, she led his Maximalist group until the rise of Fascism forced her into exile in Switzerland, where she edited \"Avanti!\" and became the secretary of the Paris Bureau. While addressing a socialist meeting in Lausanne, she first encountered Mussolini, who at the time was still a socialist; her first impression of him was not flattering: \"I had never seen a more wretched human being ... he seemed more concerned with his inner turmoil than what I was saying.\n\nShe later moved to Paris, then New York City at the outbreak of the Second World War. When the war ended, she returned to Italy and joined the Socialist Workers' Party, which became the Italian Democratic Socialist Party (after including the United Socialist Party).\n\nBalabanoff is a major character in the 1993 RAI Italian language production \"Il Giovane Mussolini\", portrayed by Susanne Lothar.\n\nBalabanoff is memorialized in Judy Chicago's \"The Dinner Party\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34600075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34600075", "title": "Arsen Avakov", "text": "Arsen Avakov\n\nArsen Borysovych Avakov (; born January 2, 1964) is a Ukrainian politician and businessman. Between 2005 and 2010 he was Governor of Kharkiv Oblast. Following the February 2014 revolution, he was appointed Minister of Internal Affairs in the first cabinet of Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk. He was reappointed to the same position in the December 2014.\n\nArsen Avakov was born to an Armenian family on January 2, 1964 in settlement imeni Kirova (since 1992 Rəsulzadə, located within Binəqədi raion) of Baku, Soviet Azerbaijan. \"Avakov\" is the Russified version of the Armenian surname \"Avagyan\" (also transliterated as \"Avakyan\" or \"Avakian\"). He moved to Ukraine with his family in 1966.\n\nFrom 1981 to 1982, Avakov worked as a laboratory assistant for the Chair for Automated Control Systems at the Kharkiv Polytechnic Institute. In 1988, he graduated from Kharkiv Polytechnic Institute as a systems engineer with a major in automated control systems. From 1987 to 1990 he worked as an in Kharkiv. He joined a commercial bank in 1992, becoming a member of its supervisory board.\n\nIn 2002, Avakov was elected a member of the Executive Committee of Kharkiv City Council. During the presidential electoral campaign in 2004, he was the deputy head of Kharkiv Regional Headquarters of Viktor Yushchenko, a presidential candidate, and the First Deputy Head of “The National Salvation Committee” in Kharkiv region.\n\nOn February 4, 2005, by the decree of the President of Ukraine, Avakov was appointed the head of the Regional State Administration in Kharkiv. He resigned from his positions at Investor JSC and Basis Commercial Bank. In March 2005, he was elected into the council of the political party \"Our Ukraine,\" a member of the Party Presidium. On March 26, 2006, he was elected a deputy of the Kharkiv Regional Council, 5th convocation, and became a member of the Standing Committee on Budgetary Issues.\n\nAvakov was on the organizing committee for Euro 2012 in Ukraine from April 24 to May 8, 2007. From May 5, 2007 through January 21, 2008, he was a member of the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine. He was also a member of the National Council on Interaction between Government Authorities and Local Self-Government Bodies and was named an Honored Economist of Ukraine. On October 31, 2010, he was elected deputy of the Kharkiv Regional Council, 6th convocation, and became a member of the Standing Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Historical Heritage, Intellectual Wealth and National Minorities. He resigned on February 9, 2010 pursuant to Part 3 of Article 31 of The Law of Ukraine “On Civil Service”: \"Principled disagreement with decisions made by the public body or an official thereof, and ethical reasons preventing continuation of civil service.\"\n\nOn February 1, 2010, Avakov withdrew from Our Ukraine. He issued a detailed Summary Report at the close of his term of office in Kharkiv Regional State Administration. On April 21, 2010, he joined the Batkivshchyna political party and accepted the offer of Yulia Tymoshenko to lead its regional organization (Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc). Avakov ran for mayor of Kharkiv in the 2010 Ukraine local elections on 31 October 2010. He finished second, losing to Hennadiy Kernes by a margin of 0.63%.\n\nCharged on 31 January 2012 with \"illegally transferring land\", Avakov was placed on the international wanted list of Interpol on 21 March 2012. He was detained in Frosinone (Italy) late March 2012. An Italian court placed him under house arrest as a preventive measure on 12 April 2012. In October 2012, Avakov was elected into the Ukrainian parliament on the party list of \"Fatherland\" (number 24 on this list). This led to a court ruling on 10 December 2012 that canceled the restriction measures against him (detention and a warrant for his arrest). He returned to Ukraine the next day, on 11 December 2012.\n\nOn February 27, 2014, Avakov was appointed Acting Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. He described pro-Russian separatists as \"terrorists\". Russia requested that Avakov be placed on Interpol's wanted list for \"the use of prohibited means and methods of warfare, aggravated murder, the obstruction of professional activities of journalists, and abduction.\" On 9 July 2014, a Moscow district court arrested him in absentia.\n\nIn September 2014 Avakov became a founding member of his new party People's Front.\n\nAvakov has published twelve scientific papers, one monograph, and a number of essays on political and social issues.\n\nIn November 2014, Ukraine's chief rabbi Yaakov Bleich condemned Avakov's appointment of Azov Battalion deputy commander and leading Patriot of Ukraine member Vadym Troyan as Kiev Oblast police chief, and demanded that \"if the interior minister continues to appoint people of questionable repute and ideologies tainted with fascism and right-wing extremism, the interior minister should be replaced.\"\n\nA number of experts point out that during Avakov's time as Minister of Internal Affairs, the reform of main Ukrainian law enforcement agency fell through. Started out on 7 November 2015 with entering into force of a new law \"About the National Police\", the former Ukrainian militsiya has simply changed its name and most of its staff remained unchanged.\n\nAvakov is married and has a son Oleksandr. At the age of 25 his son volunteered for the special police detachments Kyiv-1 Battalion in August 2014 and fought in the Siege of Sloviansk.\n\nArsen Avakov is author of 12 scientific papers and one monograph including:\n\n"}
{"id": "29809229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29809229", "title": "Atherton Martín", "text": "Atherton Martín\n\nAtherton Martin is a Dominican agronomist and environmentalist. He was awarded the Goldman Environmental Prize in 1998, for his efforts on protecting tropical forests from environments threats due to planned large copper mining operations.\n"}
{"id": "3148432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3148432", "title": "Atomic spies", "text": "Atomic spies\n\n\"Atomic spies\" or \"atom spies\" were people in the United States, Great Britain, and Canada who are known to have illicitly given information about nuclear weapons production or design to the Soviet Union during World War II and the early Cold War. Exactly what was given, and whether everyone on the list gave it are still matters of some scholarly dispute, and in some cases, what were originally seen as strong testimonies or confessions were admitted as fabricated in later years. Their work constitutes the most publicly well-known and well-documented case of nuclear espionage in the history of nuclear weapons. There was a movement among nuclear scientists to share the information with the world scientific community, but it was firmly quashed by the U.S. government.\n\nConfirmation about espionage work came from the Venona project, which intercepted and decrypted Soviet intelligence reports sent during and after World War II. They provided clues to the identity of several spies at Los Alamos and elsewhere, some of whom have never been identified. Some of this information was available, but not usable in court for secrecy reasons during the 1950s trials. Additionally, records from Soviet archives, which were briefly opened to researchers after the fall of the Soviet Union, included more information about some spies.\n\nBefore World War II, the theoretical possibility of nuclear fission occasioned intense discussion among leading physicists world-wide. Scientists from the Soviet Union were later recognized for their contributions to the understanding of a nuclear reality, and won several Nobel Prizes. Soviet scientists such as Igor Kurchatov, L. D. Landau, and Kirill Sinelnikov helped establish the idea of, and prove the existence of, a splittable atom. Dwarfed by the Manhattan Project, the significance of the Soviet contributions is rarely understood or credited outside of the field of physics. According to several sources, it was understood on a theoretical level that the atom provided for extremely powerful and novel releases of energy, and could possibly be utilized in the future for military purposes. In recorded comments, the physicists lamented their inability to achieve any kind of practical application from the discoveries. This would show that the scientists thought the creation of an atomic weapon was a pipe-dream and untenable. According to a United States Congressional joint committee, although the scientists could conceivably have been first to generate a man-made fission reaction, in reality they lacked the ambition, funding, engineering capability, leadership, and ultimately, the capability to do so. The undertaking would be of an unimaginable scale, and the resources required to engineer for such use as a nuclear bomb, and nuclear power were deemed too great to pursue.\n\nAt the urging of Albert Einstein and Leo Szilard through their Einstein–Szilárd letter of August 2, 1939, the United States — in collaboration with Britain and Canada — recognized the potential significance of an atomic bomb and embarked in 1942 upon work to achieve a usable device. Estimates suggest that during the quest to create the atomic bomb $2 billion, eighty-six thousand tons of silver, and twenty-four thousand skilled workers drove the research-and-development phase of the project. Those skilled workers included the people to maintain and operate the machinery necessary for research. The largest Western facility had five hundred scientists working on the project, as well as a team of fifty to derive the equations for the cascade of neutrons required to drive the reaction. The fledgling equivalent Soviet program was quite different: The program consisted of fifty scientists, and a mere two mathematicians trying to work out the equations for the particle cascade. The research and development of techniques to produce sufficiently enriched uranium and plutonium were beyond the scope and efforts of the Soviet group. The knowledge of techniques and strategies that the Allied programs employed, and which Soviet espionage obtained, might have played a role in the rapid development of the Soviet bomb after the war.\n\nThe research and development of methods suitable for doping and separating the highly reactive isotopes needed to create the payload for a nuclear warhead took years, and consumed a vast amount of resources. The United States and Great Britain dedicated their best scientists to this cause and constructed three plants, each with a different isotope-extraction method. The Allied program decided to use gas-phase extraction to obtain the pure uranium necessary for an atomic detonation. Using this method, it took large quantities of uranium ore and other rare materials such as graphite to successfully purify the U-235 isotope. The quantities required for the development were also beyond the scope and purview of the Soviet program.\n\nThe Soviet Union did not have natural uranium-ore mines at the start of the nuclear arms race. A lack of materials made it very difficult to conduct novel research or to map out a clear pathway to achieving the fuel they needed. The Soviet scientists became frustrated with the difficulties of producing uranium fuel cheaply, and they found their industrial techniques for refinement lacking. The use of information stolen from the Manhattan Project eventually rectified the problem. Without such information, the problems the Soviet atomic team experienced would have taken many years to correct, affecting the production of a Soviet atomic weapon significantly.\n\nThe missing link that explains the great leaps in the Soviet Union's atomic program is the espionage information and technical data that Moscow succeeded in obtaining from the Manhattan Project. Once the Soviets had learned of the American plans to develop an atomic bomb during the 1940s, Moscow began actively seeking agents to get information. Moscow sought very specific information from its intelligence cells in America, and demanded updates on the progress of the Allied project. Moscow was also greatly concerned with the procedures being used for U-235 separation, what method of detonation was being used, and what industrial equipment was being used for these techniques.\n\nTo obtain this information from the Manhattan Project, the Soviet Union needed spies who had security clearance high enough to have access to classified information and who could understand and interpret what they were stealing. Moscow also needed reliable spies who believed in the communist cause and who would provide accurate information. One such Soviet spy, Theodore Hall, had worked on the development of the bombs dropped in Japan.\nHall provided the specifications of the bomb dropped on Nagasaki. This information allowed the Soviet scientists a first-hand look at the successful set up of an atomic weapon built by the Manhattan Project.\n\nAlthough Hall's information proved helpful to the Soviet cause, the most influential of the atomic spies was Klaus Fuchs. Fuchs, a German-born British physicist, went to America to work on the atomic project and became one of its lead scientists. Fuchs had become a member of the Communist Party in 1932 while still a student in Germany. At the onset the Third Reich Fuchs fled to Great Britain (1933), where he eventually became one of the lead nuclear physicists in the British program. In 1943 he moved to the United States to collaborate on the Manhattan Project. Due to Fuchs's position in the atomic program, he had access to most, if not all, of the material Moscow desired. Fuchs was also able to interpret and understand the information he was stealing, which made him an invaluable resource. Fuchs provided the Soviets with detailed information on the gas-phase separation process. He also provided specifications for the payload, calculations and relationships for setting of the fission reaction, and schematics for labs producing weapons-grade isotopes. This information helped the smaller under-manned and under-supplied Soviet group with a hard push in the direction of the successful detonation of a nuclear weapon.\n\nThe Soviet nuclear program would have eventually been able to develop a nuclear weapon without the aid of espionage, but a basic understanding of the usefulness of an atomic weapon, the sheer resources, and the talent did not develop until much later. Espionage helped the Soviet scientists identify which methods worked and prevented wasting valuable resources on techniques which the development of the American bomb had proven ineffective. The speed at which the Soviet nuclear program achieved a working bomb with so few resources depended on the amount of information acquired through espionage. During the Cold War trials that espionage was touted as one of the most significant intelligence coups in human history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1368613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1368613", "title": "Bagman", "text": "Bagman\n\nA bagman (or bag man) is a person or paymaster designated to collect or distribute illicitly gained money (\"dirty money\"), such as bribes to public officials, or money that is collected in a criminal enterprise, such as a \"protection racket\" or in the running of a numbers racket. A bagman may also act as an intermediary in such transactions. \"Bagman\" is also a (mainly) British term for a traveling salesman. The first known use of the term occurred in \n1808.\n\nA bagman may also be known as a delivery boy or running man, and he may receive a fraction of the money collected. Though it connotes someone who carries a bag of money, the term may also apply to a person who performs other small tasks for those involved in organized crime, such as chauffeuring or transporting goods.\n\nThe term is sometimes used in other contexts involving controversial money transactions.\n\nBagman is also used just to mean assistant in military or police contexts as seen in the series Endeavour.\n"}
{"id": "41709935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41709935", "title": "Berta Aliana", "text": "Berta Aliana\n\nBerta Aliana was an Argentine actress and tango singer.\n\n"}
{"id": "50368610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50368610", "title": "Eileen Simpson", "text": "Eileen Simpson\n\n\"For the British artist, see Eileen Simpson (artist)\"\n\nEileen Simpson (1918 – October 21, 2002) was an American writer and psychotherapist. Her 1982 book \"Poets in their Youth\" records her life with first husband John Berryman and his circle of poets, including Delmore Schwartz and Robert Lowell. In 1984 she was a recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship for Creative Arts in General Nonfiction.\n\nBorn Eileen Patricia Mulligan in New York City, Simpson was orphaned by age 7 and sent by relatives to a New Jersey boarding school. She struggled with undiagnosed dyslexia, a condition later identified by Berryman.\n\nSimpson met Berryman at a New Year's party in New York in 1941, soon after her graduation from Hunter College, and they were married the following year at St. Patrick's Cathedral. The couple moved to Beacon Hill, and Berryman found work lecturing at Harvard, and later Princeton. Berryman, like other poets of his generation, would continue to earn his living through academic postings. Simpson meanwhile supported his poetry practice first with secretarial positions, and later, as a psychology student, with work at a Princeton clinic.\n\nSimpson's eleven years of marriage to Berryman were turbulent. As Berryman struggled as an artist, Simpson supported him practically and emotionally, even as his personal problems and behavior worsened. Simpson remained an astute and sympathetic observer of Berryman, his poet and writer colleagues, and their wives and families, including Randall Jarrell, Delmore Schwartz, Robert Lowell, Jean Stafford, and R.P. Blackmur, all of whom appear in \"Poets in Their Youth\".\n\nSimpson's \"Times\" obituary concludes that \"madness and despondency were the principal motifs of her life\" with Berryman and his circle. Between Berryman's alcoholism, infidelities, suicidal urges, and persistent self-destructive tendencies, Simpson was forced to conclude that \"no amount of love and care could protect him from external circumstances, and that these could bring him to the edge of madness.\" After 11 years of marriage, she writes: \"The job of net-holder had exhausted me.\"\n\nStill, as the \"Washington Post\" reviewer Jonathan Yardley noted, it was a union characterized by \"much happiness\", and Simpson's enduring love and affection for Berryman, and the poets and poets' wives of their circle, are principal strengths of her memoir: a \"cleareyed compassion... is characteristic of \"Poets in Their Youth,\" which never sensationalizes these brilliant but wildly erratic young men, only seeks to understand them.\" While \"New Yorker\" poetry editor Howard Moss, writing in the New York Review of Books on the occasion of its publication, called it \"too forgiving by far\", Lee Siegel, reviewing its reissue in the \"New York Times\", ascribes to the memoir \"an almost uncanny clemency and a kind of cerulean objectivity\", calling it \"both a memorial to the men Simpson admired and an admonitory epitaph on lives lived at often false and ugly odds with their own aspirations toward truth and beauty.\"\n\nSimpson left Berryman in 1953, divorcing officially in 1956. Berryman would go on to win the Pulitzer Prize for \"The Dream Songs\" in 1965, and eventually committed suicide in 1972. Simpson's memoir was published in 1982 by Random House, and reissued in 2014 by Farrar, Straus & Giroux. The title is taken from Wordsworth's \"Resolution and Independence\":\n<poem>\n“We poets in our youth begin in gladness; / But thereof comes in the end despondency and madness”.</poem>\n\nIn 1960, Eileen married Robert Simpson, a banker and diplomat, and relocated to Paris. Unable to continue her psychotherapist practice, she turned to writing, publishing a novel and two personal memoirs as well as studies in psychology. After the death of her second husband, she married Francis X. Baine, who died in the late 1990s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2547173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2547173", "title": "Farid Essebar", "text": "Farid Essebar\n\nFarid Essebar () (born in 1987, known as Diabl0) is a Moroccan black hat hacker. He was one of the two people (along with Turk Atilla Ekici) behind the spread of the Zotob computer worm that targeted Windows 2000 operating systems in 2005. Among the affected were CNN, ABC News, \"The New York Times\", Caterpillar, United Parcel Service, Boeing and also the United States Department of Homeland Security.\n\nMicrosoft used 50 investigators and had put a $250,000 reward for the capture of the hacker(s). Microsoft's General counsel declared on August 26, 2005 that \"The fact that we were able to see these arrests in less than two weeks and see them halfway around the world really drives that point home.\"\n\nEssebar is a Russian citizen, also.\n\nIt is believed that his intention was to facilitate credit card forgery scams. The FBI believes that Atilla Ekici paid Farid Essebar to code the worm.\n\nIn July 2006, investigators stated that Essebar may have authored more than 20 viruses.\n\nOn 17 March 2014, Essebar was arrested in Thailand after a 2-year investigation by Thai police. The investigation was triggered by a complaint from Swiss authorities over an alleged infiltration of a Swiss bank that caused billions of dollars' damage.\n\nOn September 15, 2006, a Moroccan court sentenced Essebar to two years of prison. It was reduced to a year on December 15, 2006.\n"}
{"id": "34613264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34613264", "title": "Felix A. Sommerfeld", "text": "Felix A. Sommerfeld\n\nFelix A. Sommerfeld (May 28, 1879 – after 1930) was a German secret service agent in Mexico and the United States between 1908 and 1919. He was chief of the Mexican Secret Service under President Francisco I. Madero, worked as a diplomat and arms buyer for Venustiano Carranza and Francisco \"Pancho\" Villa, and ran the Mexican portion of Germany's war strategy in North America between 1914 and 1917.\n\nBorn on May 28, 1879 in Schneidemuehl, Posen, Germany, Sommerfeld grew up in a middle class Jewish household as the youngest son of Pauline and Isidor Sommerfeld. After finishing high school Sommerfeld began studies in Berlin as a mining engineer. However, for unknown reasons he dropped out and came to the United States in 1898 to visit his brother. In the excitement over the outbreak of the Spanish–American War, the 19-year-old joined the army but deserted a few months after. In 1900 Sommerfeld, this time as a German soldier, went to war in China to put down the Boxer Rebellion. He was a \"Meldereiter,\" German for horse messenger. When he returned in 1901 he completed his mining engineering studies and returned to the United States in 1902. After briefly staying with his brother Julius in Chicago, Sommerfeld set out to the West as a prospector. He worked his way through Arizona, Sonora (Mexico) and Durango (Mexico) until 1905 when he returned to Chicago totally broke. Not much is known about the German adventurer between 1906 and 1908. It is possible that he returned to Germany and received secret service training in Berlin.\n\nIn 1908, he suddenly showed up in Chihuahua, Mexico. He again worked as a mining engineer, however, in reality he became an informant for the German government. Chihuahua was ripe with rebellion and Sommerfeld did all he could to find out as much as possible about the anti-reelection movement led by wealthy Coahuila land owner, Francisco I. Madero. After the fraudulent elections that brought Porfirio Díaz yet another term as president in 1910, the Mexican Revolution erupted. Sommerfeld ostensibly worked for AP News but filed regular intelligence reports for the German government.\n\nWhen forces supporting Madero succeeded in overthrowing the Diaz in May 1911, Sommerfeld joined the new president's entourage, first as a personal assistant, then as Mexico's chief of the secret service. Working under the direction of the president's brother, Gustavo A. Madero, Sommerfeld led the Mexican secret service. He helped put down the Orozco uprising in the spring of 1912, in the course of which he led the largest foreign secret service organization ever operating on U.S. soil. The secret service organization Sommerfeld built included Mexican-Americans, Mexican expatriates, other German agents such as Horst von der Goltz and Arnold Krumm-Heller, as well as two of the most notorious soldiers of fortune of the decade, Sam Dreben and Emil Lewis Holmdahl.\n\nIn 1913, after Madero's overthrow and murder by Victoriano Huerta, Sommerfeld left Mexico under the protection of German ambassador Paul von Hintze, went to Washington, D.C. where he received funds from lawyer and Madero supporter Sherburne Hopkins and signed up with the rebel movement assembled to overthrow Huerta. Governor of Coahuila, Venustiano Carranza, who declared against Huerta's regime and created the Constitutionalist revolutionary movement against it, sent Sommerfeld to El Paso and San Antonio to organize weapons for the revolutionaries. Access to arms was a key element of a successful military movement. Northern Mexico's access to the border made procuring arms easier than in southern Mexico, where the Zapatistas operated. Sommerfeld also functioned as a liaison between the U.S. government and Carranza.\n\nIn the spring of 1914, Sommerfeld began working closer with successful Constitutionalist Army General, Pancho Villa, commander of the División del Norte. When Villa and Carranza split their alliance after the defeat of Huerta in July 1914 and a civil war of the winners ensued, Sommerfeld stayed with Villa as his chief weapons buyer in the U.S. Sommerfeld also lobbied the U.S. government on Villa's behalf to receive diplomatic recognition. The task brought Sommerfeld close to General Hugh Lenox Scott and American Secretary of War, Lindley Miller Garrison, both of whom he assisted numerous times when U.S. nationals found themselves in trouble in Mexico. Sommerfeld was questioned following the mysterious disappearance of prominent writer Ambrose Bierce, who had attached himself to Villa's forces but then vanished without a trace.\n\nWhen World War I broke out in August 1914, Sommerfeld moved to New York ostensibly to represent Pancho Villa's interests but actually worked for German Naval Attache Karl Boy-Ed. In his function as a specialist on Mexican affairs, Sommerfeld helped the German government sell arms and ammunition they had bought to keep them out of enemy Entente hands. Sommerfeld also had great knowledge of U.S. munitions factories, their capacities, order status etc. His intelligence reports had a great influence on the formulation of Germany's war strategy vis-a-vis the United States. In 1915, Sommerfeld funneled large numbers of arms to Pancho Villa, the value being estimated to about $340,000 (About $7 million in today's value). Despite having large numbers of arms, Villa was decisively defeated by Constitutionalist Army General Álvaro Obregón in a series of battles in the Bajio, the most famous of which is the Battle of Celaya in 1915. Villa's huge army of movement, largely using massed cavalry charges, fell before Obregón's superior strategy and tactics of trenches improvised from agricultural irrigation ditches and machine guns. Villa's División del Norte ceased to exist, and Villa became a guerrilla leader rather than the general of a major army of movement.\n\nIn March 1916, Villa and a small group of men attacked the city of Columbus, NM. The Battle of Columbus resulted in civilian casualties and prompted the U.S. to send General John J. Pershing on a Punitive Mission, which was unsuccessful in its attempt to capture Villa. Sommerfeld, who had offered to the German government in May 1915 that he could create an incident which would provoke a war between the U.S. and Mexico, became a prime suspect in Villa's attack on Columbus. However, no investigator or historian has been able to prove Sommerfeld's involvement.\n\nIn June 1918, Sommerfeld was interned in Fort Oglethorpe, GA as an enemy alien. He was released in 1919. A few trips back and forth to Mexico have been recorded in the 1920s and 30s. However, the German agent disappeared in the 1930s, so far without a trace.\n\n"}
{"id": "9079850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9079850", "title": "Genealogy of the Spanish Royal Family", "text": "Genealogy of the Spanish Royal Family\n\nThe genealogy of the Spanish Royal Family runs through the House of Bourbon, the Capetian dynasty, and the House of Oldenburg. Specifically, King Felipe VI's father, King Juan Carlos is a member of the House of Bourbon, and his mother, Queen Sofia, is of the House of Oldenburg.\n\nThe following is the senior male line from Felipe VI to Robert of Hesbaye.\n\n\nFelipe is descended from the House of Oldenburg through his mother, Queen Sofia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48061171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48061171", "title": "Gibril Faal", "text": "Gibril Faal\n\nGibril Faal (born 10 October 1967) is a British-Gambian business and development executive. In 2014, he was appointed OBE in the Queen's Birthday Honours List for services to international development, following a nomination by the Department for International Development (DfID). He is a Visiting professor in practice at London School of Economics (Institute of Global Affairs). He was one of the global leaders who spoke at the 19 September 2016 UN Summit on Refugees and Migrants, joining select presidents, prime ministers and institution leaders to address the question of 'International cooperation'. Gibril serves as technical expert in the consultations and negotiations for the Global Compact on Migration. He was the Grand Rapporteur of the Tenth Summit of the Global Forum on Migration and Development (GFMD) in Berlin in June 2017. He co-moderated Common Space of the Eighth GFMD Summit in Istanbul in October 2015. He co-chaired the seventh GFMD) in Stockholm in May 2014. In 2013, he delivered two keynote addresses at the United Nations General Assembly. He was selected to speak on behalf of global civil society and joined the UN Secretary General to open the High Level Dialogue on Migration and International Development.\n\nA social entrepreneur and multi-disciplinary practitioner with an eclectic professional background, Gibril was educated at Serekunda Primary School in the Gambia (1973–79) and attended grammar school and Sixth Form at Gambia High School (1979–86). He then studied at five universities in London. He has a Combined Honours bachelor's degree in Law, Finance & Management and postgraduate degrees in Development Studies and Environmental Sciences. He also had professional training in Ethical Investment, Economic History, Policy Analysis, Transport and Urban Management, Environmental and Quality Management.\n\nGibril has been a director of GK Partners since 2004 – advising socially responsible businesses and social enterprises. Through its \"Access to Finance\" and \"Access to Property\" programmes, GK Partners has helped companies raise millions of pounds of investment from ethical finance sources. From 2001 to 2004, Gibril was one of a small team of the people who developed a social enterprise business support framework in the UK through a programme funded by the Department of Trade and Industry (now called Department for Business, Innovation and Skills). Their work included the development of social enterprise business models, different forms of social investment schemes and legislation for Community Interest Companies in the Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise) Act 2004.\n\nGibril established his first business in 1993 supporting SMEs, social enterprises, charities and voluntary organisations. He worked in corporate law, business and financial management, organisational development and quality assurance. Since the early 1990s, he has directly supported hundreds of companies and organisations across a wide and diverse range of sectors. In 2003, he received special commendation from the board of the then London Business Support Network.\n\nHe was a special adviser to the Institute of Islamic Banking and Insurance (IIBI), helping them gain charitable status as a learned association. He designed an \"Access to Islamic Finance\" (A2IF) training programme delivered by IIBI. In 2009, he convened and chaired the first A2IF conference in the UK that brought together the SME, ethical finance, business angel and Islamic finance sectors. Between 1990 and 1993, Gibril was a lecturer and tutor at various private colleges in London, teaching business law, accounting and management. He is a present or past member of several professional and academic bodies including the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators, Chartered Management Institute, Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport, Institution of Environmental Sciences and the Royal Society of Arts.\n\nGibril is a board member and vice chair of Bond (UK’s platform for NGOs working in international development). He also served on the boards of multimillion-dollar funds that invest in developing countries, including DFID’s Global Poverty Action Fund and the EC-UN Joint Migration and Development Initiative. He is currently the Interim Executive Director of the Africa-Europe Diaspora Development Platform (ADEPT). He has been involved with African Foundation for Development (AFFORD) since 1997 and served as chairman of the charity for a decade. AFFORD is a pioneering diaspora organisation that focused on enhancing the formal and informal role of diasporas in the development of countries of origin or heritage. It has devised and delivered innovative job creation schemes in Africa. Since 2000, Gibril has been applying the lessons of social enterprise, ethical finance and urban regeneration in the UK, to international development challenges.\n\nBetween 2000 and 2005, Gibril was an associate lecturer with The Open University, teaching on the MSc course in Global Development Management. In 2003, he founded RemitAid™ as a programme to transform remittances into a sustainable form of international development finance using tax reliefs and other macroeconomic policies. In 2005, the UK held the presidency of the EU and chaired of the G8 simultaneously. The Blair government set up the Commission for Africa. Gibril, together with others such as Trevor Manuel (then South African Finance Minister) was on the panel that advised the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown on the agenda for the Gleneagles G8 Summit. On 2 July 2005, on behalf of AFFORD, Gibril hosted the late Nobel Laureate Wangari Maathai as guest speaker at the African Diaspora and Development Day (AD3). Prof Maathai later became a supporter of the RemitAid™ proposal. In 2008, Gibril organised the introduction of the Mo Ibrahim Foundation to Francophone Africa. The event in Dakar was attended by Dr Ibrahim and four board members of the Foundation.\n\nIn 2006, he undertook the independent evaluation of the non-academic impact of University of Oxford’s Centre on Migration, Policy and Society (COMPAS). Gibril continues to act as an expert adviser to governments across the world as well as international and civil society organisations. He works in collaboration with agencies and institutions such as the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), International Organization for Migration (IOM) and the EC Directorate General International Cooperation and Development (Devco). He leads professional assignments on policy development and international negotiations. His recent work in global policy advocacy was in relation to the Financing for Development (FfD) and Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) negotiations. He is a Senior Research Associate with the Foreign Policy Centre (FPC). Since 2007, Gibril has been hosting private policy briefings with ministers in successive governments, senior politicians from all major parties as well as diplomats, academics and CEOs of businesses and NGOs.\n\nIn 2013, he published a handbook entitled \"Understanding and Influencing Policy: Advocacy Handbook for Diaspora and Small Organisations Working in International Development\". Every year, he delivers dozens of keynote speeches on different aspects of development at global forums. In both 2006 and 2015, he was on the high-level panels on Migration and Development at the European Development Days. Gibril has presented expert papers at institutions such as the United Nations, World Bank, Commonwealth Secretariat, United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, Royal United Services Institute for Defence and Security Studies, Chatham House, Wilton Park and the universities of Oxford and Cambridge.\n\nSince 1998, Gibril had been appointed to various public functions in the UK by the Home Secretary, the Lord Chancellor, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the Secretary of State for International Development. He served as Treasurer of the Panel of Independent custody visitor in Lambeth (Brixton). He was part of the group that advised both the Home Secretary and Metropolitan Police Commissioner on putting custody visiting on a legislative footing and giving responsibility to Police Authorities. This led to the promulgation of Section 51 of the Police Reform Act 2002. In 2004, he was appointed Justice of the Peace and part-time magistrate in the London Commission Area within Her Majesty’s Court and Tribunal Service. He has been a sitting magistrate for over a decade in courts in Wimbledon, Richmond, Lavender Hill and Kingston.\n\nBetween 1988 and 1997, Gibril was a volunteer youth leader at Pedro Youth Club in Hackney, running the Naataangeh Study Group. He led research projects, wrote papers and ran weekly workshops on African and diaspora history and anthropology. In 1993, he published a paper on \"Blacks of the Pacific: African Origins of Melanesian Peoples\". In 2006 at the Conference of Intellectuals and the African Diaspora (CIAD II) held in Salvador de Bahia, Brazil (organised by the African Union, UNESCO and the Brazilian Government), he made a keynote presentation on \"A New Definition and Classification of the African Diaspora\". This informed his 2010 Chatham House presentation on \"Historical & Developmental Perspectives on the African Diaspora\".\n\nIn 2010/11, Gibril was a patron of the National Portrait Gallery, advising NPG and supporting the fundraising effort to acquire the 17a33 painting (portrait) of the freed slave Job Ben Solomon. Gibril has been researching this subject since the late 1980s. In 2007, as part of the bicentenary of the abolition of the slave trade in the UK, he designed a historical education programme on \"slave-scholars\" and wrote a paper entitled \"Ayuba Sulayman Jallow: The Life of a Gambian Slave-Scholar\". Gibril assisted dozens of start-ups to become effective contributors in the cultural and creative industries sector. These include Omnibus Clapham (a multipurpose music and arts centre), Yaram Arts (promoters of African music, art and cultural heritage), Hangar Arts Trust (a centre for circus, acrobatic and aerial arts) and Snow-Camp (a charity that uses snow sports to support inner city young people). Gibril also acts as technical adviser to researchers in the disability arts movement and co-founded the Edward Lear Foundation.\n\nGibril has been actively involved in public service and campaigns for social justice all his life. In 1995, he wrote a socio-legal paper examining whether Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) is a form of torture as defined in international law. He later served as a trustee of Foundation for Women's Health, Research and Development FORWARD (a pioneering anti-FGM charity) from 2007 to 2014. As a teenager in the early 1980s, he was involved in youth and student mobilisations in Gambia. He also gave lectures in support of the work of the Gambia Anti-Apartheid Society. In 1986, he was appointed trainee Clerk of Court at the Supreme Court of the Gambia, where he worked for a puisne judge. In 1987, he became a Clerk at Kanifing Magistrates’ Court and progressed to manage the semi-rural Brikama Magistrates’ Court, working with a travelling magistrate. Beyond his formal multidisciplinary roles, Gibril provides informal advice and guidance to government officials and leaders in the public, private and civil society sectors around the world.\n"}
{"id": "92808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92808", "title": "Horned Serpent", "text": "Horned Serpent\n\nThe Horned Serpent appears in the mythologies of many Native Americans. Details vary among tribes, with many of the stories associating the mystical figure with water, rain, lightning and thunder. Horned Serpents were major components of the Southeastern Ceremonial Complex of North American prehistory.\n\nHorned serpents also appear in European and Near Eastern mythology.\n\nHorned serpents appear in the oral history of numerous Native American cultures, especially in the Southeastern Woodlands and Great Lakes.\n\nMuscogee Creek traditions include a Horned Serpent and a Tie-Snake, \"estakwvnayv\" in the Muscogee Creek language. These are sometimes interpreted as being the same creature and sometimes different—similar, but the Horned Serpent is larger than the Tie-Snake. To the Muscogee people, the Horned Serpent is a type of underwater serpent covered with iridescent, crystalline scales and a single, large crystal in its forehead. Both the scales and crystals are prized for their powers of divination. The horns, called \"chitto gab-by\", were used in medicine. Jackson Lewis, a Muscogee Creek informant to John R. Swanton, said, \"This snake lives in the water has horns like the stag. It is not a bad snake. ... It does not harm human beings but seems to have a magnetic power over game.\" In stories, the Horned Serpent enjoyed eating sumac, \"Rhus glabra\".\n\nAlabama people call the Horned Serpent, \"tcinto såktco\" or \"crawfish snake\", which they divide into four classifications based on its horns' colors, which can be blue, red, white, or yellow.\n\nYuchi people made effigies of the Horned Serpent as recently as 1905. An effigy was fashioned from stuffed deerhide, painted blue, with the antlers painted yellow. The Yuchi Big Turtle Dance honors the Horned Serpent's spirit, which was related to storms, thunder, lightning, disease, and rainbows.\n\nAmong Cherokee people, a Horned Serpent is called an \"uktena\". Anthropologist James Mooney, describes the creature:\n\nThose who know say the Uktena is a great snake, as large around as a tree trunk, with horns on its head, and a bright blazing crest like a diamond on its forehead, and scales glowing like sparks of fire. It has rings or spots of color along its whole length, and can not be wounded except by shooting in the seventh spot from the head, because under this spot are its heart and its life. The blazing diamond is called Ulun'suti—\"Transparent\"—and he who can win it may become the greatest wonder worker of the tribe. But it is worth a man's life to attempt it, for whoever is seen by the Uktena is so dazed by the bright light that he runs toward the snake instead of trying to escape. As if this were not enough, the breath of the Uktena is so pestilential, that no living creature can survive should they inhale the tiniest bit of the foul air expelled by the Uktena. Even to see the Uktena asleep is death, not to the hunter himself, but to his family.\n\nAccording to Sioux belief, the \"Unhcegila\" (\"Ųȟcéǧila\") are dangerous reptilian water monsters that lived in ancient times. They were of various shapes. In the end the Thunderbirds destroyed them, except for small species like snakes and lizards. This belief may have been inspired by finds of dinosaur fossils in Sioux tribal territory. The Thunderbird may have been inspired partly by finds of pterosaur skeletons.\n\n\nThe ram-horned serpent is a well-attested cult image of north-west Europe before and during the Roman period. It appears three times on the Gundestrup cauldron, and in Romano-Celtic Gaul was closely associated with the horned or antlered god Cernunnos, in whose company it is regularly depicted. This pairing is found as early as the fourth century BC in Northern Italy, where a huge antlered figure with torcs and a serpent was carved on the rocks in Val Camonica.\n\nA bronze image at Étang-sur-Arroux and a stone sculpture at Sommerécourt depict Cernunnos' body encircled by two horned snakes that feed from bowls of fruit and corn-mash in the god's lap. Also at Sommerécourt is a sculpture of a goddess holding a cornucopia and a pomegranate, with a horned serpent eating from a bowl of food. At Yzeures-sur-Creuse a carved youth has a ram-horned snake twined around his legs, with its head at his stomach. At Cirencester, Gloucestershire, Cernunnos' legs are two snakes which rear up on each side of his head and are eating fruit or corn. According to Miranda Green, the snakes reflect the peaceful nature of the god, associated with nature and fruitfulness, and perhaps accentuate his association with regeneration.\n\nOther deities occasionally accompanied by ram-horned serpents include \"Celtic Mars\" and \"Celtic Mercury\". The horned snake, and also conventional snakes, appear together with the solar wheel, apparently as attributes of the sun or sky god.\n\nThe description of Unktehi or Unktena is, however, more similar to that of a Lindorm in Northern Europe, especially in Southern Scandinavia, and most of all as described in folklore in Eastern Denmark (including the provinces lost to Sweden in 1658). There, too, it is a water creature of huge dimensions, while in Southern Sweden it is a huge snake, the sight of which was deadly. This latter characteristic is reminiscent of the basilisk.\n\nIn Mesopotamian mythology Ningishzida, is sometimes depicted as a serpent with horns. In other depictions, he is shown as human but is accompanied by \"bashmu\", horned serpents. Ningishzida shares the epithet \"ushumgal\", \"great serpent\", with several other Mesopotamian gods.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27179844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27179844", "title": "José-Carlos Mariátegui", "text": "José-Carlos Mariátegui\n\nJosé-Carlos Mariátegui is a scientist, writer, curator and scholar on culture, new media and technology. Born in 1975, he is son of Peruvian psychiatrist Javier Mariategui and grandson of Jose Carlos Mariategui, the most influential Latin American Marxist thinker of the 20th Century. He studied Mathematics and Biology at Cayetano Heredia University in Lima, Perú and did both Masters and Doctoral degrees in Information Systems and Innovation from the London School of Economics and Political Science – LSE (London). Has been involved in teaching and research activities, as well as published a variety of articles on art, science, technology, society and development. He founded Alta Tecnología Andina (ATA), non-profit organization dedicated to the development and research of artistic and scientific theories in Latin America. Founder of the International Festival of Video and Electronic Art in Lima (1998–2003). Founding Director of the Memorial Museum of José Carlos Mariátegui of the Ministry of Culture in Peru.\n\nFor many years he was disciple of Gianni Toti and collaborated in Tupac Amauta, Toti's last series of works while being both residents at the CICV Centre de Recherche Pierre Schaeffer Montbéliard Belfort (France, 1997–2002). Board Member of the Scientific Thought and Philosophy of Science Program, Cayetano Heredia University (Lima, 1995–2001). Teaches the course: “The virtual museum” at Ricardo Palma University Postgraduate Museology Program. Member of the National Commission of Culture, a High Level dependency of the President that proposed the cultural and scientific policy in Peru (2001–2002). Recent conferences include: Coloquio Internacional de Historia del Arte “Arte y ciencia” (UNAM, Guadalajara, 2000), Medi@terra Festival (Athens, 2000), ISEA 2000 Symposium (Paris, 2000), Emoçao art.ficial (São Paulo, 2002, 2004), Transmediale.03 (Berlin, 2003), Ars Electronica (Linz, 2004). Curator of several international exhibitions of media art, recently: Nueva/Vista: Videokunst aus Lateinamerica (ifa-Galeries, 2002–2003, Bonn, Berlin, Stuttgart), VIA SATELLITE international touring exhibition (2004–2007), \"Emergentes\". Member of the Cultural Diversity Committee of the Inter-Society for Electronic Arts (ISEA). Jury member of the 13 Videobrasil (2001), Videoformes (2003) and the Central America Videoprize (2004).\n\nHas acted as member of the International Programming Committee (IPC) of ISEA 2002 (Japan) and of the International Advisory Board of Prix Ars Electronica 2004–2007. Corresponding Editor Leonardo Electronic Almanac. Acted as a node of Tester and as an ISEA 2006 Pacific Rim New Media Summit International Steering Committee member. Along with geneticist and art critic Jorge Villacorta started Escuelab, an advanced research center for research and innovation for Latin America. He was a member of the Advisory Council of Third Text (2007–2012). He is currently a Network Committee member of the Prince Claus Fund (The Netherlands) and an Editorial Board member for the Leonardo Book Series at MIT Press.\n\nSince 2010 is co-Director of the Diploma of Digital Strategies on Marketing at the Postgraduate School of the Universidad del Pacífico in Lima (Estrategias Digitales para la Gestión del Marketing). He is also a researcher at the LSE Department of Management's Information Systems and Innovation Group and conducted research on the implementation of BBC's Digital Media Initiative (DMI) by studying digital video as an image-based artefact in both news and long-form productions, working with Prof. Jannis Kallinikos. Lives in London and Lima.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "984947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=984947", "title": "Julie Fernandez", "text": "Julie Fernandez\n\nJulie Mare Fernandez (born 20 April 1974 in Hampstead, London) is a British actress and model best known for her role as Brenda in the BBC comedy \"The Office\". She is married to Andrew Elliott. She and her husband are foster parents.\nFernandez was born with osteogenesis imperfecta and uses a wheelchair. She was a student at Treloar School in Hampshire. Her father is Argentinean and her mother is English.\n\nAt the age of 14, Fernandez appeared on the popular BBC television series \"Jim'll Fix It\". In October 2012, following a series of sexual abuse allegations made against the series' late host Jimmy Savile, Fernandez claimed that Savile had touched her inappropriately during the recording.\n\nHer acting career began in 1992 when she starred as Vanessa Lockhead in the short-lived BBC soap opera \"Eldorado\". She went on to play Sean Maguire's girlfriend in BBC1 drama \"Dangerfield\" before landing the role of Brenda in \"The Office\".\n\nFernandez is a disability rights activist in the United Kingdom and has supported campaigns for the Disability Rights Commission and Scope. She set up The Disability Foundation, a British pan-disability charity boasting one of the largest disability information databases in the UK. In January 2003, she co-hosted the opening ceremony for the European Year of People with Disabilities in Athens.\n\nIn 2004, Fernandez formed a television production company called The Wheelie Good Company and spent the time since working on new programme ideas. The company was set up by Fernandez to improve the representation of disabled people in the media but no longer focus on disability-related material.\n\nShe appeared as a regular guest on the quiz show \"HeadJam\".\n\nFernandez also runs an arts and craft small business in Cambridgeshire, \"Bee Crafty\", specialising in patchwork and quilting.\n\n"}
{"id": "52516983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52516983", "title": "Justa Canaviri", "text": "Justa Canaviri\n\nJusta Canaviri (born 1963) is an Aymara, Bolivian woman who has become noted for her dress in the traditional Chola dress and bowler hat, outspokenness on issues such as family violence, LGBT rights, and indigenous rights. Often called Bolivia's most recognizable \"chola\", Canaviri changed the face of Bolivian television, when she began broadcasting her cooking show by introducing for the first time an indigenous woman as the main presence. In 2014, she was honored as one of the BBC's 100 Women Series.\n\nJusta Elena Canaviri Choque was born on 13 August 1963 in La Paz, Bolivia to Filomena Choque and Ambrosio Canaviri. The second of four daughters in the family, Canaviri studied at the Tecnimod Academy with a focus on sewing and design, social work and took additional training in Bolivian gastronomy, studying the national food and pastries. She raised three children, Indira, Addis and José, working as a house cleaner to support them.\n\nIn 1999, Canaviri met the Bolivian screenwriter Guillermo Aguirre, who thought that she could work in television. He helped her secure work as a presenter on a television program, \"La Cancha\", which introduced products to consumers. After that show ended, she worked as a host on two short-lived programs, \"Sábado Estelar\" and \"Fiebre de Sábado con la Canasta de La Justa\". Because she could not find additional television work and she liked working in the medium, she wrote a program called \"La Wislla de La Justa\" and began pitching it to various independent producers. ' (RTP Bolivia), agreed to produce the show in 2002. Canaviri's program centered on food, but with Canaviri discussing political and social issues, as well as presenting cultural traditions. Within three months the program had become a hit and she began to think of producing it independently. After ten months, she went to work at the ' and the program was renamed \"La Justa\", where she remained for the next three years.\n\nCanaviri was a trendsetter. Before she went on the air, television in Bolivia was dominated by those of European ancestry. Proud of her heritage, Canaviri wanted her program to depict who she really was. She wore her hair in braids, topped with the bowler hat typically worn by \"cholas\", and the traditional multi-pleated polleras. In 2006, Canaviri moved her show to \"Bolivia TV\". where she continued to present lively conversation and recipes. In 2013, when she felt that Bolivia TV wanted a younger image and was trying to censor her discussions, Canaviri expanded her options and began airing her program on \"Virgen de Copacabana TV\" in El Alto, becoming the first presenter to air a program on two separate channels.\n\nCanaviri broke the concepts of beauty and stereotypes associated with indigenous women, becoming \"the most famous chef on Bolivian television\". She discussed such topics as weight, violence against women and abuse, discrimination against indigenous people and their rights, and LGBT issues in Bolivia. In 2014, she was honored by the BBC as one of the most inspirational 100 Women of the year. That same year, she was selected by Kimberly-Clark Bolivia as one of the women models in their golden years who would represent their Poise brand of products. She has become one of the most influential women in Bolivia and has participated as a chef and in workshops for women in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Panama, Peru and the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "652909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652909", "title": "Kate Bornstein", "text": "Kate Bornstein\n\nKatherine Vandam \"Kate\" Bornstein (born March 15, 1948) is an American author, playwright, performance artist, and gender theorist. Having been assigned male at birth and then received gender confirmation surgery in 1986, Bornstein identifies as gender non-conforming, saying \"I don't call myself a woman, \"and\" I know I'm not a man.\"\nBornstein has also written about having anorexia, being a survivor of PTSD and being diagnosed with borderline personality disorder. Bornstein has chronic lymphocytic leukemia and in September 2012 was diagnosed with lung cancer.\n\nBornstein's partner is Barbara Carrellas. They live in New York City with three cats, two dogs, and a turtle.\n\nBorn in Neptune City, New Jersey, into a middle-class Conservative Jewish family of Russian and Dutch descent, Bornstein studied Theater Arts with John Emigh and Jim Barnhill at Brown University (Class of '69). She joined the Church of Scientology, becoming a high ranking lieutenant in the Sea Org but later became disillusioned and formally left the movement in 1981. Bornstein's antagonism toward Scientology and public split from the church have had personal consequences; Bornstein's daughter, herself a Scientologist, no longer has any contact per Scientology's policy of disconnection.\n\nBornstein never felt comfortable with the belief of the day that all trans women are \"women trapped in men's bodies.\" She did not identify as a man, but the only other option was to be a woman, a reflection of the gender binary, which required people to identify according to only two available genders. Another obstacle was the fact that Bornstein was attracted to women. She had sex reassignment surgery in 1986.\n\nBornstein settled into the lesbian community in San Francisco, and wrote art reviews for the gay and lesbian paper \"The Bay Area Reporter\". Over the next few years, she began to identify as neither a man nor a woman. This catapulted Bornstein back to performing, creating several performance pieces, some of them one-person shows. It was the only way that she knew how to communicate life's paradoxes.\n\nBornstein also teaches workshops and has published several gender theory books and a novel. \"Hello Cruel World\" was written to derail \"teens, freaks, and other outlaws\" from committing suicide. \"Do whatever it takes to make your life more worth living,\" Bornstein writes, \"just don't be mean.\"\n\nIn August 2012, Bornstein was diagnosed with lung cancer. Doctors thought that she was cancer-free after surgery, but it emerged in February 2013 that the disease had returned. Laura Vogel, a friend of hers, launched a GoFundMe campaign on March 20 to help fund the cancer treatment.\n\nIn 1989, Bornstein created a theatre production in collaboration with Noreen Barnes, \"Hidden: A Gender\", based on parallels between her own life and that of the intersex person Herculine Barbin. In 2009, Bornstein's \"Hello, Cruel World: 101 Alternatives to Suicide for Teens, Freaks, and Other Outlaws\" was a Lambda Literary Award Finalist for LGBT Nonfiction and Honorbook for the Stonewall Children's and Young Adult Literature. Bornstein edited \"Gender Outlaws: The Next Generation\" in collaboration with S. Bear Bergman. The anthology won Lambda Literary and Publishing Triangle Awards in 2011. Bornstein's autobiography, titled \"A Queer and Pleasant Danger: A Memoir\", was released May 2012, and in April 2013, she released \"My New Gender Workbook: A Step-by-Step Guide to Achieving World Peace Through Gender Anarchy and Sex Positivity\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52928358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52928358", "title": "Kenneth T. Williams", "text": "Kenneth T. Williams\n\nKenneth T. Williams (born 1965) is a Cree playwright. He is from the Gordon First Nation, Saskatchewan in what is known as Treaty 4 territory. However, from the age of 12 through his early adulthood he lived off-reserve in Edmonton. Williams completed a B. A. and then became the first Indigenous person to earn an M.F.A. in playwriting from the University of Alberta in 1992. He currently lives in Saskatoon but still spends much of his time in Edmonton.\n\nWilliams jokes he had the worst career path in Canadian theatre. He worked as an encyclopedia salesman on reserve, a bartender, a drummer and joined the Reservists. Then, for 15 years, Williams dabbled in journalism, writing art and literature reviews for journals. Williams wrote a half-dozen plays before finally getting one produced: Thunderstick in 2001. The play was panned by the Globe and Mail when it premiered in Toronto, earning a half star rating. In Western Canada, the play fared better especially among native audiences. The play continued to tour for 10 years playing in every major city across Canada. In 2013 Thunderstick went on a four-city tour in Western Canada, and featured Lorne Cardinal of \"Corner Gas\" fame and Craig Lauzon of Air Farce who traded off roles in the two hander on alternate nights.\n\nIn 2006, Willams devoted himself full time to playwriting. The jump worked for him and since then his plays Café Daughter, Gordon Winter, Thunderstick, Bannock Republic, Suicide Notes, and Three Little Birds have been produced across Canada, including at Canada's National Arts Centre.\n\nWilliams may be best known for Café Daughter, which was nominated for a Sterling award for Outstanding Production in 2016. Café Daughter was warmly received as it toured major cities across Canada. Williams loosely based the play on the life of Senator Lillian Dyck whom he met when she received an Aboriginal Achievement Award. Dyck's mother encouraged her to hide her native identity as she was growing up.\n\nFor the play \"Gordon Winters\" the role had been played by the indigenous actor Gordon Tootoosis, who played the lead. The play based on the fall from grace experienced by real-life First Nations Leader David Ahenakew whose was disgraced after making anti-Semitic comments to a reporter.\n\nHis latest play, In Care, about a mother struggling against the child welfare system also received positive reviews.\n\nIn 2016, Williams became the interim artistic director of the Gordon Tootoosis Nikaniwin Theatre in 2016. Saskatoon.\n\n"}
{"id": "7552378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7552378", "title": "Ketut Wiana", "text": "Ketut Wiana\n\nKetut Wiana is a prominent Hindu scholar in Indonesia. He is one of the foremost authorities on Agama Hindu Dharma.\n\nHe urged Balinese to not sacrifice turtles in puja and to follow Indonesian regulations on protecting the Sea Turtles, citing the Vedas.\n"}
{"id": "11223711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11223711", "title": "Kevin McCurley (cryptographer)", "text": "Kevin McCurley (cryptographer)\n\nKevin Snow McCurley is a mathematician, computer scientist, and cryptographer, formerly a research scientist at Google.\n\nHe received his Ph.D. in mathematics in 1981 from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. His early research was in number theory, investigating such topics as primes in arithmetic progression and polynomials with many initial composite values. Then he retrained himself in computer science.\n\nA former president of the International Association for Cryptologic Research, McCurley was selected as an IACR Fellow in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "56714706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56714706", "title": "Lauren Kinsella", "text": "Lauren Kinsella\n\nLauren Kinsella (born 1983 in Dublin) is an Irish jazz and improvisation music singer and composer.\n\nKinsella moved to London in 2010, where she earned her master's degree at the Royal Academy of Music in London. After singing in a duo with Sarah Buechi (\"Sessile Oak\", 2009) she started working on the British jazz scene with Laura Jurds \"Chaos Orchestra\" (\"Island Mentality\") and in the band \"Thought-Fox\", among others. In 2012 she co-produced \"All This Talk About\" (Wide Ear Records) with Alex Huber. She also played in duo with saxophonist Tom Challenger and in the sextet \"Abhra\" led by the French saxophonist Julien Pontivanne. In addition, she appeared in the project Somewhere in Between on the \"Birmingham Literature Festival\" with the actor Peter Campion. She also worked with Ian Wilson (\"I Burn for You\") and in the theater project t \"The Last Siren\". Currently (2018) she works in a duo \"Snowpoet\" with the pianist Kit Downes.\n\nKinsella was awarded the 2013 \"Kenny Wheeler Prize\" In 2015 she was a scholarship holder of the \"Birmingham Jazzlines Fellowship\". She also received commissions from BBC Radio 3 and the Marsden Jazz Festival. In 2016, she received a \"PRS Music Foundation for Women Make Music Award\", and in 2017 a scholarship from the Arts Foundation. Kinsella teaches jazz at Leeds College of Music.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13706309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13706309", "title": "Li Kaigu", "text": "Li Kaigu\n\nLi Kaigu (李楷固), also known as Wu Kaigu (武楷固) from 700 to 705, formally the Duke of Yan (燕公), was a general during the reign of Wu Zetian. He was of Khitan ethnicity.\n\nIn 696, the Khitan rose against Chinese hegemony under the leadership of Li Jinzhong and his brother-in-law Sun Wanrong. At the time, Li Kaigu was a general under Li Jinzhong. By 697 Li Jinzhong had died and Sun had been defeated and killed. Li Kaigu and fellow Khitan general Luo Wuzheng (駱務整) surrendered to Wu Zetian's Zhou Dynasty. Initially, Zhou generals wanted to put Li Kaigu and Luo Wuzheng to death in retaliation for their victories over Zhou forces, but the chancellor Di Renjie intervened and persuaded Wu Zetian to make them her generals.\n\nLi Kaigu was subsequently able to suppress the remaining Khitan forces. In 700, Li Kaigu was named Duke of Yan and subsequently took the surname \"Wu\". (Presumably, he changed his surname back to \"Li\" after Wu Zetian's son, Emperor Zhongzong of the Tang Dynasty, returned to the throne in 705 following a coup that restored the Dynasty).\n\nLi Kaigu was unable to defeat Dae Jo-yeong, who eventually established the kingdom of Balhae. Li Kaiju's date of death is unknown.\n\nThe Battle of the Astronomical Battle or the Battle of the Tiananmen Ling took place in 698 between the Gaoqing Daojongong and the Tang Dynasty.\n\nAfter the destruction of Goguryeo by Silla and the coalition forces of the party, Dae Joo - young went to the lord of the party with his father. In May of 696, when Lee Jing-Chong and Son-Man-榮ong of Rebellion revolted in the Tang dynasty, they were caught up in the confusion. Then, in spite of the emancipation policy of Huan Teng Wu, Goguryeo created a force in the east.\n\nThe Tang Dynasty sent an armed force. Dae Joo-young defeated them by rallying gunwale, a group of people from the Malgalese and Goguryeo. Dae defeated them in the royal court and laid the foundations for establishing the Bohai Sea. In AD 698, Dae built the pavilion under the Dongmoo-san in Jilin castle.\n\nJeong Bo-seok portrays Li Kaiju in KBS's \"Dae Jo Yeong (TV series)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24883584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24883584", "title": "List of Cornell Manhattan Project people", "text": "List of Cornell Manhattan Project people\n\nScientists from Cornell University played a major role in developing the technology that resulted in the first atomic bombs used in World War II. In turn, Cornell Physics professor Hans Bethe used the project as an opportunity to recruit young scientists to join the Cornell faculty after the war. The following people worked on the Manhattan Project primarily in Los Alamos, New Mexico during World War II and either studied or taught at Cornell University before or after the War:\n"}
{"id": "25586028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25586028", "title": "List of Dutch patrician families", "text": "List of Dutch patrician families\n\nList of Dutch patrician families in the official \"Nederland's Patriciaat\".\n\nBranches of the same family are separated by a slash (/).\n\nVan der Aa • Aalbersberg / Aalbertsberg • Abbing / Roscam Abbing • Abeleven • Aberson / Colson Aberson / van der Hardt Aberson / Wigeri Aberson • d'Abo • Acket • Acquoy • Hora Adema • Adriani / van der Tuuk Adriani • Advocaat • d'Ailly • Van Akerlaken • Albarda • Alberdingk / Alberdingk Thijm • van Alderwerelt / van Alderwerelt van Rosenburgh / de Roo van Alderwerelt • (Van) Alkemade / van Rijn van Alkemade • Van Alphen (Etten) / Pascal van Alphen • van Alphen (Keulen) • van Alphen (Rotterdam) • Alpherts • van Regteren Altena • Altes / Korthals Altes / Meursing Korthals Altes • Ament • Ameshoff • Ancher / Brouwer Ancher • van Andel • Andrau • • Andreae (Fürstenwalde) • Andreae (Hitzum) / Beucker Andreae / van Bothnia Andreae / Fockema Andreae / Nauta Andreae • Ankersmit / Kok Ankersmit • Van Appeltere • d'Aquin • van Arkel • Arntz / Ratering Arntz • Arntzenius • Arriëns / Lincklaen Arriëns • Asser / Nijhoff Asser • d'Aumerie\n\nBaart de la Faille • De la Faille • Baartz • Bachiene • Backer • Backer van Leuven • Huyghens Backer • Badon Ghyben • Baelde • Van Baerle • Baert • Bake • De Menthon Bake • Van den Wall Bake • Bakhuijsen • Van de Sande Bakhuijzen • Bakker (Goedereede) • Bakker (Rostock) • Balfour(geslacht) • Balfour van Burleigh • Balguerie • Ballot • Buys Ballot • den Bandt • Banga • Bannier • Banning • Weyn Banningh • Barbas(geslacht) • De Bas • Bastert • Bastiaanse • Van Bouwdijk Bastiaanse • Haak Bastiaanse • Batenburg • Van Basten Batenburg • Battaerd • Baud • Bauduin • De Beaufort • Beaujon • Beausar • Van Breda Beausar • Beckman • Wiardi Beckman • Beeckman • Van Beeftingh • Beelaerts • Beelaerts van Emmichoven • Beelaerts van Blokland • Beeldemaker • Beels • Den Beer Poortugael • van Beest • Van Voorst van Beest • Beets • Van Bemmelen • Benier • Benteyn • Bentfort • Bentfort van Valkenburg • Drossaart Bentfort • Van Berckel • Bere • Lach de Bere • Van Berenbroeck • Van den Berg (Dongen) • Van den Berg • Bentz van den Berg • Bland van den Berg • Van Maren Bentz van den Berg • van den Berg • Van den Berg van Saparoea • Berger • Van den Bergh • van den Bergh van Heinenoord • Van Benthem van den Bergh • Bergsma • Berlekom • Van Berdenis • Bernicke • Bert • de Bert • Schrassert Bert • Besier • Bettink • Wefers Bettink • Betz • Beuker • Van Beuningen • Van Beusekom • Hubert van Beusekom • Van Beusekom (Doetinchem) • Beyen • De Beyer • Beyerinck • Beyerman • Beijnen • van Duijfhuijs Beijnen • Koolemans Beijnen • Bichon • Bichon Vingerhoedt • Bichon Visch • Bichon van IJsselmonde • Bicker • Bicker Caarten • De Bie • Bienema • van Bienema • Bienfait • Bierens de Haan • Bodel Bienfait • Van den Biesen • Vongers van den Biesen • Bik • Arnold Bik • Butin Bik • Mulock van der Vlies Bik • de Nijs Bik • de Perez Bik • Vreede Bik • Bilderdijk • van der Bilt • Binkes • Binkhorst • Binkhorst van Oudcarspel en in Koedijk • Bischoff • Bischoff van Heemskerck • Bischoff Tulleken • Bisdom • Van Lakerveld Bisdom • Reijnders Bisdom • Wijckerheld Bisdom • Blaauw (Stadlohn) • Blaauw (Westzaan) • Blaisse • Blanckenhagen • Blankenheym • Blankert • Bloembergen • Bloemers • Blokhuis • Blokhuyzen • Blom (Delft) • Blom (Eemnes) • Blom (Hindelopen) • Blom (Kleef) • Blom (Oost-Vlaanderen) • Blomhert • van Blommestein • Blussé • Blussé van Oud-Alblas • Van Braam Blussé • Blijdenstein • Blenken Blijdenstein • de Stoppelaar Blijdesteijn • Boddaert • Boddens • Boden (patriciaatgeslacht) • Bohlen Boelen • van Boelens • Boellaard • Boerlage • Boeye • Bogaers • Bogaert • Nering Bogel • Bohtlingk • Du Bois • Boissevain • Bok • Boll • Bolomey • Bondam • Bonebakker • Bonnike • Boogaert • Boom • Isebree Boom • De Lange Boom • Plevier Boom • Boomkamp • van Leeuwen Boomkamp • Boon (Rotterdam) • Boon • Boon Hartsinck • Boon van Ostade • Boonacker • Boonen • Boot • Moerkerk Boot • Nagtglas Boot • De Booij • Van Bommel van Vloten • De Bordes • Van Walré de Bordes • Borgesius • Zuiderveen Borgesius (eerste geslacht) • Borgesius (tweede geslacht) • Von dem Borne • Borret • Borski • Van Noord Borski • Van Wieringhen Borski • Bosch • Ten Bosch • Van den Bosch (Breda) • Van den Bosch (Rheden) • Van den Bosch (Rotterdam) • Bosscha • van Bosse • Boumeester • Bouricius • Visscher Bouricius • Boutmy • Bouvin • Bouvy • Bouwensch • Braakenburg • Brakenburg • Van Braam • Van Braam Houckgeest • Van Braam van Vloten • Braams • Brandt • Brants • Brantsma • Willinge Brantsma • De Brauw • Ten Noever de Brauw • Stavenisse de Brauw • Bredius • Klinkhamer Bredius • Van der Breggen • Van der Breggen Paauw • Breukelman • Briët • de la Saussaye Briët • van den Brink • Bakhuizen van den Brink • Van den Broecke • De Smit van den Broecke •Van den Broek (Geulle) • Van den Broek d' Obrenan • Van den Broek (Babyloniënbroek) • Vun den Broeke • Broers • Broese • Broese van Groenou • Le Bron de Vexela • Brongersma • Bedloo de Bronovo • Brousson • Clockener Brousson • Reeling Brouwer • Browne • Van der Brugghen • Bruinier • Bruins • Brutel de la Rivière • Bruijn • Bruijn van Rozenburg • Van der Horst Bruijn • Van Oosterwijk Bruijn • De Bruyn (Herpen) • De Bruyn • De Bruin ('s-Hertogenbosch) • De Bruyn (Kockengen) • De Bruyn van Melis- en Mariekerke • de Bruyn • Van Troostenburg de Bruyn • Lobry van Troostenburg de Bruyn • Bruijns • Mörzer Bruijns • Buchler • Buck • Budde • Cost Budde • Buma • De Blocq van Haersma Buma • Van Haersma Buma • Hopperus Buma • Hora Buma • Bunge • Buning • De Cock Buning • Werumcus Buning • Van Buren • Burger • Burkens • Buschkens • Busmann • Hartman Busmann • Star Busmann • Tjaden Busmann • Bussemaker (Emlichheim) • Bussemaker (Hengelo) • Barlagen Bussemaker • Buteux • Buyskes • Bybau • De Bye • Thierry de Bye • Van Bijlert • Bijleveld (Rhoon) • Bijleveld (Westfalen) • Van Eijk Bijleveld • Bijvoet • Van Dieren Bijvoet\n\nCaan • Caan van Neck • De la Bassecour Caan • Caarten • Van Calcar • Van Calker • Sharpe van Calker • Van Kalker • Calkoen • van Beeck Calkoen • Callenbach • Callenfels • Van der Beke Callenfels • Van Stein Callenfels • Von Stein Callenfels • Carnbier • Camp (Geertruidenberg) • Camp ('s-Hertogenbosch) • Van Campen • Del Campo genaamd Camp • Van Lookeren Campagne • Cankrien • Cannegieter • Hoornsma Cannegieter • Reen Cannegieter • Schrader Cannegieter • Canneman • Cantzlaar • Capadose • Van Capelle • Carbasius • Cardinaal • Carp • De Carpentier • Carsten • Star Nauta Carsten • Van Casteel • Castendijk • Ten Cate • Naudin ten Cate • Cats • Lichtenvoort Cats • Manger Cats • Van Cattenburch • Casteren van Cattenburch • Van Panhuys van Cattenburch • Cau • Cazaux • Cazius • Certon • Rigail Certon • Chabot • Taudin Chabot • Van Charante • Boss van Charante • Mensing van Charante • Moll van Charante • Watson van Charante • Charbon • De Chaufepie • de Dompierre de Chaufepie • Clant • Clant van der Mijll • Clant Schatter • Van Rijneveld Clant • Clarion • Clavareau • Clement • Van der Poest Clement • De Clercq (N.-Brabant) • Van der Lek de Clercq • De Clercq (Vlaanderen) • Cleveringa • Cleyndert • Cleijndert • De Jong Cleijndert • Clifford • Oetgens van Waveren Pancras Clifford • Pancras Clifford • Du Cloux • Alting du Cloux • Lincklaan du Cloux • Cluysenaer • Cnopius • Coenen • Cohen • Cohen Stuart • Coldeweij • Colenbrander • Van Berck Colenbrander • Van Hecking Colenbrander • Collard • Colthoff • Rom Colthoff • De Coningh • Van Assendelft de Coningh • Van Vrijberghe de Coningh • Conrad • Cool (Appingedam) • Cool (Overschie) • Coops • Coops Busgers • Van de Coppello • Kappeyne van de Coppello • Cordelois • Cordes • Corstius • Brandt Corstius • Corten • Coster • Costerman • Costerus • Couperus • Del Court • Couvee • Sauerbier Couvee • Cox • Craandijk • Van der Crab • Cramer (Ootmarsum) • Cramer (Rijnland) • Cramer (Westfalen) • Putman Cramer • Cramer von Baumgarten • Cramerus • De Crane • Van Cranenburgh • Cremer • Cremers • Canter Cremers • Hooftman Canter Cremers • Pathuis Cremers • Creutzberg • Creyghton • Criellaert • Croiset • Crol • Crommelin • Van Wickevoort Crommelin • Croockewit • Crull • Hofstede Crull • Cruys • Cunaeus • Gael Cunaeus \n\nDaendels • Dalen • Van Dam (Amersfoort) • Van Dam (Delft) • Boudet van Dam • Van Dam van Isselt • Damste • Daneels van Wijkhuyse • Daniels • Wijnoldy Daniels • Daubanton • Van Deinse • Deketh • Deking Dura • Dekker • Dyserinck Dekker • Huisinga Dekker • Van der Mijll Dekker • Delbeek • Delprat • Dermout • Deurvorst • Van Deventer • Van Dielen • Diemont • Waller Diemont • Diepen • Diepenbrock • Van Diepenbrugge • Diepenhorst • Diephuis • Dierkens • Van Diermen • Dirkzwager • Van Dishoeck • Van Ditzhuyzen • Dobbelmann • Van Doekum • Doeff (Hazerswoude) • Doeff (Oudshoorn) • Van Doesburgh • Brandt van Doesburgh • De Vries van Doesburgh • Semeyns de Vries van Doesburgh • Doffegnies • Dolleman (Maastricht) • Dolleman (Westzaan) • Thierry de Bye Dolleman • Dommers • Van Dompseler • Donker • Donker Curtius • Donkersloot • Dons • Doorenbos • Doorman • Langguth Doorman • Van Doorn • De Balbian van Doorn • Van Doorne • Van Doorninck • Dorhout • Von Dornberg • Von Dornberg Heiden • Van Dorp • Dorrepaal • Van Dorsser • De Haas van Dorsser • Douglas • Douwes Dekker • Douwes • Douwes Isema • Doyer • Elberts Doyer • Dozy • Drabbe • Von Frijtag Drabbe • Drees • Driebeek • Van Driel van Wageningen • Van den Dries • Driessen • Van Driest • Droogleever Fortuyn • Fortuyn Droogleever • Drost • Druyvesteyn • Drijfhout • Dubourcq • Dufour • Dull • Dumbar • Dunlop • Van Dunné • Van Dusseldorp • Drossaart van Dusseldorp • Van der Dussen • Dutilh • Dutry • Dutry van Haeften • Duuring • Duycker • Dijckmeester • Van Dijk • Van Dijk van 't Velde • Van Dijck • Dyserinck • Kleiweg Dyserinck • Dijxhoorn\n\nVan der Eb • Ebeling (Groningen) • Ebeling (Hildesheim) • Eck • Van Eck (Drumpt) • Van Eck (Eck en Wiel) • Van Eck (Rotterdam) • Van Eeghen • Eekhout • Hachmeester Eekhout • Eeckhout • Van Eelde • De la Sablonière van Eelde • Van Eerten • Westerbeek van Eerten • Van Eeten • Begram van Eeten • Egeling • Guldensteeden Egeling • Egidius • Egter • Egter van Wissekerke • Van Eik • Eindhoven • Cremer Eindhoven • Elias • Witsen Elias • Elout • Elsevier • Van der Elst (Antwerpen) • Van der Elst (Driel) • Hupkens van der Elst • Van der Elst (Utrecht) • Emants • Van Embden • Emmen • Tjaden Emmen • Engelberts (Nordhorn) • Engelberts (Uithuizermeeden) • Engelbrecht • D'Engelbronner • Engelenburg • Engelhard • Engels • Enklaar • Enklaar van Guericke • Enschede • Durselen Enschede • Ermerins • Van Erpecum • Erzey • Eschauzier • Escher • Van Essen • Evekink • Evekink Busgers • Van Voorst Evekink • Everard • Van Everdingen • Everts • Everwijn • Van Ewijck • Eijck • Eijck van Zuylichem • Burman Eyck tot Zuylichem • Van Eyk • Sprenger van Eyk • Eijkman • Eijkman van der Kemp • Eyma • Eysten • Wackie Eysten\n\nFabius • Fangman • Fauchey • Faure • Van der Feen • Van der Feen de Lille • Feenstra • Feith (Obershausen, Nassau) • Feith (Elburg) • Fernhout • Fenema • Borgerink Fenema • Van Fenema • Ferf • Fermin • Le Fèvre de Montigny • De Feyfer • Van der Flier • Flieringa • De Flines • Fock • Von Brucken Fock • Fockema • Fokker • Folkersma • Folmer • Van Orsoy de Flines • Fontein I • Alg(e)ra Fontein • Fontein II • Van Dalsen Fontein • Matak Fontein • Fortuyn • De Fouw • Bevier de Fouw • François • Fraser • De Fremery • Frets • Freudenberg • Friesendorp • Frieswijk • Frowein • Fruin • Veltman Fruin • Fuhri • Fuhri Snethlage • Fundter • Fundter de Beauchene • Furnee\n\nGaade • De Gaay • De Gaay Fortman • Gallas • Steenwijk Gallas • Gasinjet • De Gavere • Gaymans • Geertsema • Busch Geertsema • Geertsema van Sjallema • Van Gelder • Smidt van Gelder • Gelderman (Zwolle) • Gelderman (Schermbeck) • Gelinck • Gelpke • Sollewijn Gelpke • Van Gelsdorp • Van Genderen • Van Gennep • Gentis • Geradts • Gericke • Gerlings • Indewey Gerlings • Jager Gerlings • Oortman Gerlings • De Pauw Gerlings • Verschoor Gerlings • Van Geuns • Gevers • Gevers Deynoot • Gevers Leuven • Gewin • Gey • Gey van Pitdus • Giesberger • Gildemeester (Rheda) • Gildemeester • Van Gheel Gildemeester (Utrecht) • Van Gilse (Alphen, Gilze) • Van Gilse (Baarle Nassau) • Gleichman • Gleichman von Oven • Gobius • Gobius du Sart • Gockinga • Goddard • Goekoop • Van Goens • van der Goes • Van Gogh • Gonggrijp • Goossens • Gordon • Van Gorkum • De Gou • Gout • Gouda • Van Gouiloever • De Graaf (Rijssel) • De Graaff (Nieuwland) • Van de Graaff • Messemaeckers van de Graaff (Bleskensgraaf) • Van de Graaff (Ned.-Indie) • Graafland (geslacht)• Hooft Graafland • De Graeff (Amsterdam) • Gransberg • Graswinckel • Gratama • Fresemann Gratama • Oldenhuis Gratama • Willinge Gratama • Gravenhorst • Bennebroek Gravenhorst • Berch Gravenhorst • Waters Gravenhorst • Gregory • Greidanus • Idema Greidanus • Van Wimersma Greidanus • Grenfell • Greve • Hovens Greve • Van Someren Greve • De Greve • Grevelink • Alstorphius Grevelink • Bisschop Grevelink • Uzenhoed Grevelink • Van Griethuijsen • Groeneveldt • De Bruine Groeneveldt • Groeninx • Groeninx van Zuelen • Van der Gronden • Brandenburg van der Gronden • Van Groningen • Cornets de Groot • De Groot • Hofstede de Groot • Groskamp • Robbe Groskamp • Grothe • Van Ghesel Grothe • Luten van Doelen Grothe • Grijp • Specht Grijp • Guepin • Guerin • Balguerie Guerin • Gülcher • Guljé • Gunning • Guyot • Van Gijn • Kuyl van Gijn • Gijsberti • Gijsberti Hodenpijl • De Gijselaar\n\nVan Haaften • Kivit van Haaften • Haan • de Haan • Bierens de Haan • Van Breda de Haan • Ter Haar • Hacke • Van Haeften • Van der Haer • De Haes • Hagedoorn • Rolandus Hagedoorn • Haitink • Hajenius • Halbertsma • Van der Halen • De Jonge van der Halen • Van Hall • Van Noorle van Hall • Teyler van Hall • van Halmael • Van Halteren • Hamaker • van Hamel • Ardesch van Hamel • Hamer • De Witt Hamer • Versélewel de Witt Hamer • Hamilton of Silverton hill • Hamming • Hamstra • van Woudenberg Hamstra • Hanedoes • Hanegraaff • Hanlo • Hannema • Hardenberg • Van Harencarspel • Van Harpen • Krook van Harpen • Kuyper van Harpen • Harte • Harte van Tecklenburg • Hartevelt • Hartman • Del Campo Hartman • Hartogh • Hartogh Heys • Hartsinck • van Marselis Hartsinck • Hasebroek • Hasselaer • Hooft Hasselaer • Sautijn Hasselaer • Hasseleij • Hassleij • Hasselman • van Hasselt (Gent) • Van Hasselt • Copes van Hasselt • Abbema Copes van Hasselt • Wilhelmy van Hasselt • Havelaar • Van Heek • Van Heel • Dudok van Heel • Gousset van Heel • van Hees • Heemskerk • Bijsterus Heemskerk • Heerspink • Hegt • Noordhoek Hegt • Hein • Arendsen Hein • Vlielander Hein • Faijan Vlielander Hein • Heinsius • Van Bosveld Heinsius • van Helbergen • Helder • Heldewier • Vignon Heldewier • Heldring • Helmich • Helmolt • Camerling Helmolt • Van Heloma • Van Helsdingen • van Beuningen van Helsdingen • Von Hemert • Hendrichs • de Lestrieux Hendrichs • van Hengel • Hengst • van Hengst • Hennequin • Henny • Herckenrath • Herderschee • Heringa • Hermsen • van Herzeele • Heshuysen • Hesselink • Keppel Hesselink • Van Heteren • Van Heukelom • Siegenbeek van Heukelom • Van Heusde • Van Heusden • Van den Heuvel • Van der Hagen van den Heuvel • Van den Heuvell • Van Linden van den Heuvell • van Heuven • Kiljan van Heuven • van Munster van Heuven • Heyning • Van Heyningen • Kits van Heyningen • Heijnis • Heinis • Heynsius • Van Heyst (Antwerpen) • Van Heijst (tak Waalwijk) • Van Heijst (tak Sprang) • Van Buuren van Heijst • Graevestein van Heijst • Van den Ham van Heijst • De Vries van Heijst • Hiddingh • Hingst • Hinlopen • Hintzen • van Hoboken • Appelius van Hoboken • van Hoek • de Hoest • Hoeth • Wichers Hoeth • Hoeve • Van der Hoeven (Besoijen) • van der Hoeven (Delft) • van der Hoeven (Dorsten) • des Amorie van der Hoeven • Pruys van der Hoeven • Templeman van der Hoeven • Van 't Hoff • Hoffmann • Hoffmann van Hove • Hofstede • van Hogendorp • Hogerwaard • de Lille Hogerwaard • Hojel • van Holkema • Holland • Holle • van Beest Holle • du Ry van Beest Holle • Holleman • Hollertt • Holst • Roland Holst • Holtius • Holtzman • Homan • Linthorst Homan • Hondius • Van den Honert • Honig • Van Hooff • Drijfhout van Hooff • Hooft van Vreeland • 't Hoofd • Visser 't Hoofd • Hoog • Hoogendijk • Van Rossen Hoogendijk • Van Hoogenhuyze • Hoogeveen • Hoogeweegen • Hoogewerff • Hooglandt • Palairet Hooglandt • Hoogstad • Silvergieter Hoogstad • Van Hoogstraten • Van Bijnkershoek van Hoogstraten • Hoogvliet • van der Hoop • Thomassen à Thuessink van der Hoop • Hooreman • Van Hoorn • Hoos • Van Hopbergen • Horst • Houba • Houben • Houck • Hout • van der Hout • van Houten (Elburg) • Akersloot van Houten • Van Houten (Meeden) • Van Houten (Rotterdam) • Houtman • van Houweninge • Baggerman van Houweninge • Kuyck van Houweninge • Van Houweningen • Van Hora • Hovy • Hoyack • Hoyer • Hoynck van Papendrecht • Chalmers Hoynck van Papendrecht • Van Hoytema • Hoytema van Konijnenburg • Hubar • van Hellenberg Hubar • Huber • Rosendahl Huber • Hubert • Hubrecht • van Lanschot Hubrecht • van der Hucht • Hudig • Huet • l'Ange Huet • Busken Huet • Gallandat Huet • Hugenholtz • Ter Bruggen Hugenholtz • de Haan Hugenholtz • Huidekoper • Hulsewe • Hulshoff • van Hulst • Hummelinck • Wagenaar Hummelinck • Hurgronje • Snouck Hurgronje • Huijgen • Huygens • Huygens Peronneau van Leijden • Huysinga • Huijsman • Huisman\n\nVan Iddekinge • Hooft van Iddekinge • Idenburg • Van Idsinga • Immink • Indewey • Ingen Housz • Insinger • De longh • Crena de Iongh • De Jongh • Crena de Jongh • Van Iterson • Van Loon van Iterson • Roessing van Iterson • Roessingh van Iterson • Itzig Heine\n\nS'Jacob • De Normandie s'Jacob • Jacobson • Jacobson • Rosen Jacobson • Jaeger • Van der Jagt • James • De Groot Jamin • Jannink • Janssens • de Maes Janssens • Jarman • Berkman Jarman • Jeltes • Van Jeveren • Jolles • Jonas • De Joncheere • Jonckheer • De Jong • De Josselin de Jong • van Loghem de Jong • De Jong van Rodenburgh • Van Zijll de Jong • Van der Zoo de Jong • De Jongh (Goedereede) • De Jongh (Wijk) • De Jongh van Son • De Jongh (Zaltbommel) • Munniks de Jongh • Jongkindt • Jongkindt Coninck • Jordaan • Jordan • Jordens • Jordens • Jurgens • Jurry • Juta • Jutting • Van Benthem Jutting • Van Starckenborgh Jutting \n\nKaars Sypesteyn • Van Kaathoven • Kakebeeke • Peman Kakebeeke • Kalff • Fremery Kalff • Kam • Kamerling • Kamphuis • De Kanter • De Laat de Kanter • Van Karnebeek • Karsten • Van de Kasteele • De Kat • Kayser • Keiser • Brunsvelt Keiser • Busch Keiser • Tjassens Keiser • Warmolt Keiser • Van der Kemp • Van Kempen (Kalkar) • Van Kempen (Kempen) • De Kempenaer • Kemper • Kempers • Bernet Kempers • Kerkhoven • Van Kerkwijk • Kerstens • Van Kervel • Kessler • Ketjen • Willink Ketjen • Van Ketwich • Van Ketwich Verschuur • Keuchenius • Keunen • Kiderlen • Von Kiderlen-Waechter • Kingma • Kip • Van Erp Taaiman Kip • Kirchner • Hasseleij Kirchner • Kist • Kleyn (Leiningen) • Le Conge Kleyn • Kleyn (Schoonhoven) • Van der Kloot • Van Rhede van der Kloot • De Klopper • Kluit • Provb Kluit • Sautijn Kluit • Tempelman Kluit • Kluytenaar • Klijn • Knappert • Kneppelhout • Knight • Knoote • Knottenbel • Knottnerus (Bellingwolde) • Knottnerus (Eger) • Knuttel • Koch (Stein-am-Rhein) • Koch (Solingen) • De Kock • Koenen • Van Koetsveld • Van Koetsveld van Ankeren • Mengel van Koetsveld van Ankeren • Kol • Kolff • Kolff van Oosterwijk • Van Breda Kolff • Van Santen Kolff • Koning • Wittop Koning • Koningsberger • Van Konijnenburg • Hoytema van Konijnenburg • Van der Koog • Van Bijnkershoek van der Koog • Van Toulon van der Koog • Kool • Diemer Kool • Schuckink Kool • Schultze Kool • Koolen • Kolen • Coolen • Koopmans • Coopmans • Koopmans Stadnitski • Cnoop Koopmans • Van Swinden Koopmans • Kooy (Huizen) • Van Barneveld Kooy • Kooy (Uithuizen) • Van Marwijk Kooy • Van Woensel Kooy • Van der Kop • Croiset van der Kop • Kops • De Bruyn Kops • Kortenhorst • Korteweg • Kranen • Krantz • Krayenhoff • Krayenhoff van de Leur • Van Krimpen • Krol • Van Driel Krol • Kronenberg • Kroon • Krudop • Kruimel • Krull • Kruseman • Nieuwenhuijzen Kruseman • Polman Kruseman • Krusemann • De Kruijff • Kruys • Tielenius Kruythoff • Tielenius • Van Kuffeler • De Blocq van Kuffeler • Van der Meer van Kuffeler • Kuhn • Ter Kuile • Ter Kuile Lemker • Kuiper • Frenstra Kuiper • Van der Kun • Kuntze • Kuyck • Van Kuyk • De Kuyper • Kuyper • Van Harpen Kuyper • Kymmell • Homan Kymmell • Lunsingh Kymmell • Nijsingh Kymmell • Oldenhuis Kymmell • Willinge Kymmell • Wilmsonn Kymmell\n\nLaan (Middelie) • Laan (Westwoud) • Laane • Van de Laar • Labouchere • Labrijn • Tak Labrijn • Ladenius • Toe Laer • Lagers • Lamaison van Heenvliet • Lamberts • Lambrechtsen • Lambrechtsen van Ritthem • Laming • Land(geslacht) • Lange • Everwijn Lange • De Lange • Ten Houte de Lange • Stuyling(h) de Lange • Tigler de Lange • Van Lansberge • Van Lanschot • Lantsheer • Laurillard • Laurillard dit Fallot • Laurman • Laverge • Lebret • Lechner • Van Pelt Lechner • Leclercq • Van Lede • Ledeboer • Leemans • Leembruggen • Leendertz • Van Leenhof • Van Leenhof de Lespierre • Leesberg • Van der Leeuw (Rotterdam) • Van der Looy van der Leeuw • Van der Leeuw (Stevensweert) • Van Leeuwen (Nederhemert) • De Kock van Leeuwen • Van Leeuwen (Nieuwkoop) • Van Leeuwen (Schipluiden) • Storm van Leeuwen • Van Leeuwen • Van Leeuwen van Duivenbode • Lehman de Lehnsfeld • Ruijsch Lehman de Lehnsfeld • Lels • Lely • Van der Lely • Van Lelyveld • Van Lelyveld van Cingelshouck • Le Mair • Van Lennep • Roeters van Lennep • Ross van Lennep • Lenshoek • Lette • Lhoest • Lichtenbergh • Van der Burcht van Lichtenbergh • Van Lidth de Jeude • Lieftinck • Van Lilaar • De Lind van Wijngaarden • Van der Linden • Dronsberg van der Linden • Cort van der Linden • De Lint• De Lind van Wijngaarden • Lisman • Loder • Loeff (Oudheusden) • Loeff (Zaltbommel) • Loeff (Zeeland) • Van der Loeff • Rutgers van der Loeff • Schim van der Loeff • Verniers van der Loeff • Van Loenen • Beckeringh van Loenen • Lohman • Lohnis • Loman • Van Loo • Sluyterman van Loo • Van de Loo • Van der Loo • Loopuyt • De Loos • Neuman de Loos • Loosjes • Looxma • Los • Los van Aarlanderveen • Loudon • Lucardie • Lucassen • Valck Lucassen • Luchtmans • Luden • de Bie Luden • Lugard • Lugt • Van der Lugt • Lulofs • Drossaart Lulofs • Luns • Van Lutterveld • Van Luttervelt • Luzac • Lycklama a Nijeholt\n\nMaaldrink • Binkhorst Maaldrink • Van Maanen • Maas • Maas Geesteranus • Van Maasdijk • Macalester Loup • Mac Gillavry • Mackay • MacLeod • Madry • Magnee • Maielle • Maingay • De Man • Nolthenius de Man • Van der Mandele • Van der Mandere • Van Manen • Mansholt • Van Mansvelt • Marcella • Maris • Van Marken (Baambrugge) • Van Marken (eiland Marken) • Vos van Marken • Van Marle • Marres • Martini Buys • Mathijsen • Mathon • Van Schaeck Mathon • Matthes (Beieren) • Van Lankeren Matthes • Matthes (Brandenburg) • Mauritz • Mazel • Van der Meersch • Van Limborch van der Meersch • Van Meerten • Meertens • Mangelaar Meertens • Mees • Alting Mees • Dorhout Mees • Kreunen Mees • Mom Faure Mees • Uniken Mees • De Meester • Meesters • Tromp Meesters • Van Meeteren • Westerouen van Meeteren • Van Meeverden • Menalda • Mensonides • Mercier • Merckelbach • Merckens • Merens • Gallis Merens • Van der Mersch • Mertz • Messchaert • Messchert • Mestingh • Metelerkamp • Methorst • Metzlar • Ter Meulen • Ruhle von Lilienstern ter Meulen • Meurs • Dalen Meurs • Meursinge • De Mey • Meijen • Van Stuyvesant Meijen • Meijer • De Lanoy Meijer • Maarschalk Meijer • Meyer • Meyer Timmerman Thijssen • De Meijier • Meyjes • Van Oostrom Meyjes • Posthumus Meyjes • Meijlink • Meyners • Van Mierlo • Van Mierop • Schenkenberg van Mierop • Milders • Minderop • Van der Minne • Mirandolle • Mispelblom • Mispelblom Beyer • De Mist • Uitenhage de Mist • Modderman • Moens • Isebree Moens • Moes • Molengraaff • Van Hoogen Molengraaff • Molengraaff van Loon • Molewater • Moll (Blokzijl) • Moll (Wageningen) • De Bruyn de Neve Moll • Van Moll • Mollinger • De Mol van Otterloo • Moltzer • Momma • De Monchy • Monod de Froideville • Montijn • Moolenburgh • Moorrees • Van Braam Morris • Van de Mortel • Mosselmans • Van Motman • Motz • Pelgrom von Motz • Van Mourik • Mouthaan • Mouton • Delia Mouton • Van der Muelen • Zur Muhlen • • Muller (Gerolsheim) • Muller van Voorst • Müller • Muller (Glarus) • Muller (Grijpskerk) • Du Celliee Muller • Muller (Sleeswijk-Holstein) • Wolterbeek Muller • Muller Massis • De Munnick • Muntendam • Muntz • Van Musschenbroek • Mutsaerts • Muijsken • Mijnssen • Verpyck Mijnssen\n\nVan Naamen • Nachenius • De Bijll Nachenius • Nagel • Nagtglas • Nagtglas Versteeg • Nairac • Nauta • Nederburgh • Nepveu • Nepveu tot Ameyde • Roosmale Nepveu • De Neree • De Neree tot Babberich • Van Nes • Van Nes van Meerkerk • Netscher • van der Gon Netscjer • De Neufville • Van Gelder de Neufville • Neys • Nibbrig • Hart Nibbrig • Niemeijer • Van der Niepoort • Nierstrasz • Nieuwenhuis • Domela Nieuwenhuis • Domela Nieuwenhuis Nyegaard • Domela • Nieuwenhuijs • Nieuwenkamp • Kits Nieuwenkamp • Van Nieuwkuyk • Nilant • Van Nispen • Noëls van Wageningen • Nolen • Nolthenius • Tutein Nolthenius • Brown Tutein Nolthenius • Noodt • Huber Noorduyn • Noorduyn • Van Nooten • Cambier van Nooten • Hoola van Nooten • Sandt van Nooten • Sibmacher van Nooten • Nortier • Van Notten • Van Nouhuys • Losecaat van Nouhuys • Noyon • Terpstra Noyon • Numan • Star Numan • Nijgh • Nijhoff • Nypels • Nysingh\n\nObreen • Van der Speck Obreen • De Vrij Obreen • Odé • Offerhaus • Van Ogtrop • Van Olden • Van Oldenborgh • Van Ommeren • Onderwater • De Court Onderwater • Ongerboer • Onnes • Kamerlingh Onnes • Van Oordt • Bleuland van Oordt • Van der Houven van Oordt • Oorthuys • Oosterbaan • Oosterhoff • Van Gybland Oosterhoff • Van Oosterzee • Oosting • Bieruma Oosting • Van Oppen • Van Opstall • Van Orsoy de Flines • Van Osselen • De Mol van Otterloo • Ouboter • De Bruyn Ouboter • Oudemans • Van der Oudermeulen • Van Outeren • Van Oven • von Oven • Van Overveldt • Van Overzee • Van Oyen • Vorsterman van Oyen • Von Oyen zu Furstenstein • Oijens • De Marez Oijens • Weckherlin de Marez Oijens\n\nPaehlig • Paets • Pahud de Mortanges • Pahud • van der Pals • van Gilse van der Pals • Palthe, Racer Palthe, van Wulfften Palthe • Pape • Paravicini di Capelli • Parve • Steyn Parve • Pasteur • Pastor • Patijn • Clotterbooke Patijn • Paulus • Paulussen • de Pauly • Pauw • Pelerin • Pelinck • Ter Pelkwijk • Peltzer • Penning • Penning Nieuwland • Pennink • van Hanswijk Pennink • Perk • Perk van Lith • van Persijn • van Peski • Pfeiffer • Pfister • de Wetstein Pfister • Phaff • Philippi • Philips (familie)• Philipse • Piccardt • Soetbrood Piccardt • Pichot • Pichot du Plessis • Pichot Lespinasse • Picke • Piek • Pierson • Pietermaat • Pigeaud • Piper (patriciërsgeslacht) • Pistorius (Oberhessen) • Verkerk Pistorius • Pistorius (Thuringen) • Pit • Plate • Plaat • Plemp • Plemp van Duiveland • Pleyte • Pleyte d'Ailly • van der Ploeg • Ploos van Amstel • Pluygers • Pol • Hulshoff Pol • Pols • Polvliet • Nederdijk Polvliet • Pompe • Pont • Maclaine Pont • Le Poole • Van der Poorten • Portielje • van der Pot • Povel • Praetorius • Prager • van Prehn • van Prehn Wiese • Prince • Prins (Aalten) • Prins (Noordwijk) • Prins (Rotterdam) • Prins (De Rijp) • Prins • Bloys van Treslong Prins • Pronck • Van de Putte • Fransen van de Putte • Pijnacker Hordijk\n\nQuack • De Quay • Du Quesne • du Quesne van Bruchem • Queysen • Quien • Quintus\n\nRaedt • Raedt van Oldenbarnevelt • Arendsen Raedt • Ragay • Rahder • Rahusen • De Ram • Ramaer • Rambonnet • De Ranitz • Ras • Rasch • Rau • Rauwenhoff • De Ravallet • Ravesteijn • Van Ravesteyn • Receveur • Reddingius • Benthem Reddingius • Folmer Reddingius • Lubeley Reddingius • Roskamp Reddingius • Van Reede • Van Reenen • Reepmaker • Reepmaker van Belle • Rees • Van Rees • Siewertsz van Reesema • Reeser • Reeser Cuperus • Regout • Rehm • Reiger • a Brakel Reiger • Remy • Repelius • Reuchlin • Reyers • Reynvaan • Van Rhijn • Ribbius • De Riemer • Van Riemsdijk • Van Riemsdijk Kreenen • Du Rieu • Rink • Van Rinkhuyzen • Rive • Robbe • De Vries Robbe • De Rochefort • Rochussen • Roelants • Roelants van Baronaigien • Jonker Roelants • Hazelhoff Roelfzema • Röell • Roelofsz • Roelvink • Roessingh • Roessingh Udink • De Buys Roessingh • Conringh Roessingh • Roest • Roest van Limburg • Van Roggen • Graadt van Roggen • Rolandus • Roldanus • Rombach • Romeny • Ter Haar Romeny • Rommenie • • Von Römer • Romme • Van Romondt • d'Aumale van Romondt • Romswinckel • De Roo (Bailleul) • De Roo (Delft) • De Roo de la Faille • Roodenburg • Rooseboom • Roosegaarde • Roosegaarde Bisschop • Roosenburg • Rose • Roskes • Van Rossem • Van Rossum (Asch) • Van Rossum (Zaltbommel) • Rost van Tonningen • Rouffaer • De Roy • De Roy van Zuydewijn • De Roy van Wichen • Royaards • Van Erpers Royaards • Sutherland Royaards • Van Royen (Berlikum) • Van Royen (Breukelerveen) • Van Roijen (Ieper) • Haakma van Roijen • Roijer • Rueb • Russel • Rutgers • De Ruuk • Ruys ('s-Hertogenbosch) • Ruijs de Beerenbrouck • Ruys van Nieuwenbroeck • Ruijs • Ruys (Utrecht) • Ruys van Hoogh-Schaerwoude • Ruys de Perez • Nienhuis Ruys • Rijcken • Pels Rijcken • Van Rijckevorsel • Van Rijn (Papendrecht) • Rijnbende • Van Bol'es Rijnbende • Rijshouwer\n\nDe la Sabloniere • De Lussanet de la Sabloniere • Saint Martin • Saltet • Van der Sande • Van der Sande Lacoste • Verbeek van der Sande • Sander • Duyckinck Sander • Van Sandick • Sannes • Van Santen • Santhagens • Van Eibergen Santhagens • Sark • Sas • Sassen • Schaay • Schade van Westrum • Schadee • Schaepkens • Schaepkens van Riempst • Schaepman • Schafer • Schalkwijk • Schaly • Scharp • Schas • Scheers • Scheidius • Van Schelle • Scheltema • Scheltema Beduin • Scheltema de Heere • Adama van Scheltema • Van Scheltinga • De Blocq van Scheltinga • Coehoorn van Scheltinga • Wielinga van Scheltinga • Scheltus • Scheltus van IJsseldijk • Van Schelven • Schenck • Teengs Schenck • Schepel • De Schepper • IJssel de Schepper • Schermer • Schermer Voest • Van Scherpenberg • Scheurleer • Lunsingh Scheurleer • Schiff • Van Schilfgaarde • Schill • Schimmel • Schuurman Schimmel • Schimmelpenninck • Schippers • Schleicher • Schlingemann • Schluiter • De la Fontaine Schluiter • D' Outrein Schluiter • Schneiders van Greyffenswerth • Schober • Schoch • Schokker • Arkenbout Schokker • Scholten (Almelo) • Scholten (Holten) • Scholten (Osnabruck) • Scholten van Aschat • Fannius Scholten • Scholten van Oud-Haarlem • Van Wesele Scholten • Scholten (Wezel) • Scholvinck • Schonegevel • Van Nijmegen Schonegevel • Van Schoonhoven • Van der Schooren • Schout Velthuys • Schouwenburg • De Jong Schouwenburg • Van Schouwenburg • Menalda van Schouwenburg • Schram • Schrameier Verbrugge • Van Schreven • Van der Schrieck • Schukking • Schuller • Bosschaert Schuller • Schuller tot Peursum • Van der Werven Schuller • Schultz van Haegen • Schuurman • Elink Schuurman • Elink Schuurman Duuring • Schuyt • Van Castricum • Schwartz (Morbegno) • Schwartz (Posen) • Van Loben Sels • Senders • Senn van Basel • Mersen Senn van Basel • Servatius • Sibinga • Smit Sibinga • Vietor Sibinga • Sichterman • Sieburgh • Siemens • Siertsema • Sillem • Simon Thomas • De Sitter • Sleeswijk • Wegener Sleeswijk • Sleurs • Slicher • Sligcher • Slingeland • Van Oosten Slingeland • Van Slooten • Slotemaker • Van Sloterdijck • Sluis • Sluiter • Sluyterman (Dokkum) • Sluyterman (Leeuwarden) • Van Slijpe • Smallenburg • Smalt • Smidt • Smith • Smits (Schoonhoven) • Smits • Smits van Eckart • Smits van Hattert • Smits van Oyen • Smulders • Snellen • Snethlage • Snoeck • Snoeck van Tol • Van Reijn Snoeck • Snouck van Loosen • Snijder • Snijder van Wissenkerke • Snijders • Van Son • Van Braam van Son • Roberts van Son • De Sonnaville • Van Sonsbeeck • Verheye van Sonsbeeck • Van Sorgen • Van Spaendonck • Spakler van der Masch Spaendonck • Spandaw • Spengler • Cox van Spengler • Spiering • Ter Spill • Boelmans ter Spill • Spree • Sprenger • Van der Sprenkel • Berkelbach van der Sprenkel • Spruyt • Staal • Courrech Staal • van der Staal • Van der Staal van Piershil • Van de Stadt • Stahl • Staring • Van Staveren • Van Steeden • Van den Steen • Van den Steen van Ommeren • Steenberg • Steenberghe • Van Steenis • Van Steennis • Steenkamp • Steenlack • Steins Bisschop • Stern • Van Oostenwijk Stern • Sterneberg • Steveninck • De Ruyter van Steveninck • Van Steijn • Van Steijn van Hensbroek • Stheeman • Talma Stheeman • Stigter • Van Stipriaan • Van Stipriaan Luiscius • Von Stockhausen • Van Stockum • Van Stokkum (Gorinchem) • Van Stockum (Hamburg) • Van der Stok • Stokhuyzen • Stolk • Van Stolk • Stols • Stoop • De Stoppelaar • Stork • Storm de Grave • Storms • Stratenus • Strens • Stroink • Strootman • Van Strijen • Stuart • Verrijn Stuart • Suermondt • Kamphuis Suermondt • Tabingh Suermondt • Suringar • Valckenier Suringar • Suijck • Van Bemmel Suijck • Swaan • De Roon Swaan • Swaving • Sweerts de Landas • Swellengrebel • Van Swijndregt • Montauban van Swijndregt • Swijser • Sypesteyn • Kaars Sypesteyn • Sypkens • Benthem Sypkens\n\nTack • de Brueys Tack • Tak (Etten) • Tak van Poortvliet • Dumon Tak • Tak (Zierikzee) • De Maret Tak • Tasman • Tassel • Taunay • Teengs • Teeuwen • Tegelberg • Telders • Tellegen • Temminck • Tengbergen (Doetinchem) • Tengbergen (Gendringen) • De Bruyn Tengbergen • Van Ebbenhorst Tengbergen • Termijtelen • Terwindt • Testas • De Famars Testas • Van Tetering • Tetrode • Van Tets • Tetterode • den Tex • Den Tex Bondt • Van Teylingen • Thesingh • Geraerds Thesingh • Thiange • Thieme • Van Eldik Thieme • Weenink Thieme • Thierens ('s-Gravenhage) • Thierens (Land van Waas) • Thoden van Velzen • Thomson • Thooft • Thorbecke • De Thouars • Le Vasseur de Congnee de Thouars • Thurkow • Thijssen • Heerkens Thijssen • Tichelman • Tideman • Strumphler Tideman • Tielenius Kruijthoff • Tielens • Van Tienhoven • Van Tienhoven van den Bogaard • Tilanus • Van der Hoop Tilanus • Tilman • Titsingh • Camper Titsingh • Tjassens • Dittlof Tjassens • Tjeenk • Leuveling Tjeenk • De Bie Leuveling Tjeenk • Tol • Van Linden Tol • Des Tombe • Van Tomputte • Tonckens • Lunsingh Tonckens • Oldenhuis Tonckens • Toussaint • Steenstra Toussaint • Tra Kranen • Van Taack Tra Kranen • Trenité • Nolst Trenité • Tresling • Bosman Tresling • Haakma Tresling • Lunsingh Tresling • Ruardi Tresling • Stheeman Tresling • Wintgens Tresling • Treub • Van Tricht • Trip • Sibenius Trip • Tromp • Tromp van Holst • Troostwijk • Doude van Troostwijk • Tuckermann • Turing • Twiss • Duymaer van Twist • Van Eck Duymaer van Twist • Tydeman • Van Tyen\n\nUbachs • Van Uchelen • Croiset van Uchelen • Uhlenbeck • Uitterdijk • Umbgrove • Van Lulofs Umbgrove\n\nVader • Saaymans Vader • Van Voorst Vader • Vaillant • Valck • Veen Valck • Valeton • Van der Valk • Van Valkenburg (Land van Valkenburg) • Van Valkenburg (Valkenburg, Lb.) • Van Valkenburg (Well) • De Vassy • Veder • Veeckens • Van Heemskerck Veeckens • Zegers Veeckens • de Veer • Van West de Veer • Veeren • Van Orsoij Veeren • Van Veeren • Van der Ven • Verbrugge • Verhagen • De Jong Verhagen • Van Bleijswijk Thierens Verhagen • Verhellouw • Verheijen • Verkade • Verkouteren • Verloop • Van Noordenne Verloop • Verloren • Ver Loren • De Monte ver Loren • Vermande • Vermeer • Losecaat Vermeer • Vermande • Vernhout • Verploegh • Verploegh Chasse • Verschoor (Mechelen) • Verschoor van Nisse • Verschoor (Sleeuwijk) • 't Hooft Verschoor • Verschuir • Fontein Verschuir • Forsten Verschuir • Van Gesseler Verschuir • Versfelt • Verspyck • Baert Verspyck • Versteeven • Verster • Versteeven de Balbian • De Balbian Versteeven • Verstolk • Veth • Giltay Veth • Vethacke • Vethake • De Veye • Swanenburg de Veye • De Veye de Burine • De Vicq • Van Bredehoff de Vicq • Van Bredehoff de Vicq van Oosthuizen • De Vidal de Saint Germain • Viehoff • Viëtor • Fresemann Vietor • Vigelius • Vinkhuizen • Vinkhuyzen • De Virieu • Viruly • Van Castrop Viruly • Viruly van Pouderoyen • Viruly Verbrugge • Vis (Oost-Zaan) • Vis • Vis Bolderdijk (Zaandijk) • Van Romondt Vis (Colijnsplaat) • Visch • Mom Visch • Visscher • Visser • Visser (Schiedam) • Visser (Sluis) • De Visser • Scharp de Visser • Ongerboer de Visser • Vissering • Van Hoorn Vissering • Van Visvliet • Vitringa • Van Gelein Vitringa • Van Vladeracken • De Vlaming • Vliegenthart • Vlielander • Vlierboom • Van der Vliet • Van Vlissingen • Fentener van Vlissingen • Van Tongeren van Vlissingen • Van Vloten • Van Bommel van Vloten • Van Braam van Vloten • Stael van Holstein van Vloten • Vogel • Anthing Vogel • De Vogel • Vogelaar • Völcker • Verstolk Völcker • Vollenhoven • Van Beeck Vollenhoven • Van Vollenhoven • Messchert van Vlissingen • Van der Poorten van Vlissingen • Snellen van Vlissingen • Van der Wallen van Vlissingen • Voller • Peereboom Voller • Vollgraff • Vonk • Van der Veen Vonk • Voorduin • Voorhoeve • Voorhoeve Holland • Van der Voort • Rouppe van der Voort • Van Voorthuysen • Van Eyk van Voorthuysen • Du Marchie van Voorthuysen • Vorstman • De Vos (Hamm) • De Vos • De Vos tot Nederveen Cappel (Düsseldorf-Kaiserswerth) • Vosmaer • Van Voss • Heerma van Voss • Voute • Vreede • De Vries (Friesland) • De Vries (Rossum) • De Vries (Zaandam) • Ten Cate de Vries • De Vriese (Drenthe) • de Vriese (Tholen) • Vriesendorp • Vroe • Bijl de Vroe • Van der Vijver\n\nDe Waal • Wachter • De Wael • Vos de Wael • Van Wageningen • Noëls van Wageningen • Van Driel van Wageningen • Waghto • De Wal • Van Walchren • Waldeck • Walen • Jannette Walen • Van de Wall (Arnhem) • Van de Wall (Gendt) • Von de Wall • Von Dewall • Walland • Van der Wallen • Waller • Van Walre • Van Walree • Van Walsem • Van Walsum • Van Cappellen van Walsum • Walter • Wambersie • Van Waning • Wap • Van Warmelo • Warnaars • Warnsinck • Staats Evers Warnsinck • Toe Water • Van Waterschoot van der Gracht • Van Wayenburg • Van Weel • De Clercq van Weel • Weerman • Weerts • Welter • Wendelaar • De Wendt • Wentholt • Ten Behm Wentholt • Van de Werk • Wertheim • Wertheim Aijmes • Wertheim van Heukelom • Wery • Van Wessem • Westenberg • Coninck Westenberg • Lincklaen Westenberg • Westendorp • Westenenk • Westerman • Westermann • Sargant Westermann • Westerwoudt • Westra • Westra van Hoithe • Willemier Westra • Van Westrheene • Weve • Weyn • Wichers • Van Aldringa Wichers • Van Buttingha Wichers • Eyssonius Wichers • Lamoraal Wichers • Ruardi Wichers • Wieling • Wierdsma • Rypperda Wierdsma • Wichers • Wierdsma • Wilbrenninck • Wilde • Wildervanck • Wildschut • De Wildt • Bosboom de Wildt • Wilkens (Bremen) • Wilkens (Nordhorn) • Willet • Willeumier • Ter Bruggen Willeumier • Van Willigen • Kleyn van Willigen • Van der Willigen • Willinck • Willinge • Willink • Willink van Collen • Tjeenk Willink • Winckel • Von Winckel • Wintgens • Wisboom • Wiselius • De Wit (Kamerijk) • Dudok de Wit • De Wit (De Rijp) • Duyvené de Wit • De With • Van Haersma de With • Witsen • Wittert • Wittert van Hoogland • Van Woelderen • Woldringh • Wolf • Barkey Wolf • De Wolff van Westerrode • Van Wolframsdorff • Wolterbeek • Wttewaall • Woppermann • Wurfbain • Fockema Wurfbain • Wijers • Wyers • Wijnaendts • Wijnaendts van Resandt • Van Wijngaarden • Wijnmalen • Wijs • De Wijs (Amsterdam) • De Wijs (Utrecht)\n\nYpeij • IJske • Van IJsselsteyn • Van IJzendoorn\n\nZaal • Zaaijer • Zeewoldt • Van Alphen Zeewoldt • Berthon Zeewoldt • Zubli • De Clercq Zubli • Tatum Zubli • Van Zuylen van Nijevelt • Zwartendijk • Zweerts • Van Zwijndregt • Zijnen • Van der Hegge Zijnen • Sibmacher Zijnen • Steens Zijnen • Vrijdag Zijnen • Van Zijp • Van der Voort van Zijp • Van Zijst\n"}
{"id": "53884328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53884328", "title": "List of actors with Hollywood Walk of Fame motion picture stars", "text": "List of actors with Hollywood Walk of Fame motion picture stars\n\nThis list of actors with Hollywood Walk of Fame motion picture stars includes all actors who have been inducted into the Hollywood Walk of Fame in the category of motion pictures. This list does not include any non-acting professionals with motion picture stars, nor does it include any directors or producers with acting credits that are minor when compared to their directing and producing credits. This list also excludes all actors with television or live theatre stars on the Walk of Fame, as well as all animal actors and fictional characters.\n\nThe star locations and the years of the induction ceremonies are available on the official Hollywood Walk of Fame website maintained by the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce. The years of birth and death are available in the biographical articles on the \"Los Angeles Times\" Hollywood Star Walk website, with more accurate birth years from government records—such as birth certificates, census and military records—for some actors via their Wikipedia article sources.\n\nA total of 895 actors appear in the list—492 males and 403 females. There are 174 Academy Award winners for acting in the list—88 males and 86 females—and 172 non-winning nominees—95 males and 77 females. There are 549 actors with no Academy Award nominations for acting in the list—309 males and 240 females.\n\nThe youngest living male in the list is Daniel Radcliffe while the youngest living female is Scarlett Johansson. The oldest living female is Olivia de Havilland and the oldest living male is Kirk Douglas. The youngest at induction is Patty McCormack at 15 years of age, while Bobby Driscoll was the youngest male actor, inducted at 23 years of age. The oldest at induction were Yakima Canutt, Gloria Stuart, and Gina Lollobrigida, all at 90 years of age. The average age at induction is about 54, with males averaging about 57 and females averaging about 51. Posthumously-awarded stars are not included in the average calculations.\n\nSince the initial star installations of 1958–60 when 660 film actors received stars—165 being posthumously inducted—there have been 15 additional posthumous stars awarded to film actors: Paul Robeson in 1978, Dorothy Dandridge in 1983, Philip Ahn and Eleanor Powell in 1984, Smiley Burnette and Steve McQueen in 1986, Natalie Wood in 1987, Bruce Lee in 1993, Cleavon Little and George McFarland in 1994, John Belushi in 2004, Chris Farley in 2005, Pedro Gonzalez Gonzalez in 2008, Richard Burton in 2013, and Toshiro Mifune in 2016.\n\n, more than 2,600 stars are on the Hollywood Walk of Fame among all five categories: motion pictures, television, recording, radio and live performance. Stars for motion picture actors comprise about one third of all Walk of Fame stars.\n\nThe list is designed to be sortable by clicking on any of the column headings; however, sorting is only possible if JavaScript is enabled in your web browser. If viewing on a mobile device, switch to the \"desktop view\" to enable sorting (click on the word \"Desktop\" at the bottom of the page).\n\nThe initial sort order is by actor surnames. Clicking the same column heading a second time sorts in the reverse order. For example:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41236830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41236830", "title": "List of members of the Sons of Confederate Veterans", "text": "List of members of the Sons of Confederate Veterans\n\n"}
{"id": "31590522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31590522", "title": "List of missing people organizations", "text": "List of missing people organizations\n\nThis is a list of missing people organizations grouped by international or United States location. A missing person is a person who has disappeared, and whose status as alive or dead cannot be confirmed as their location and fate is not believed known.\n\n\n\nSt. Louis Missing Persons Inc\n"}
{"id": "20694496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20694496", "title": "List of women in the Bible", "text": "List of women in the Bible\n\nThe following is a list of women found in the Hebrew and Christian Bibles. The list appears in alphabetical order.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50615597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50615597", "title": "Ma Lianliang", "text": "Ma Lianliang\n\nMa Lianliang (28 February 1901 – 16 December 1966) was a Peking opera singer.\n\nMa was best known for his \"poo\" roles \"lǎoshēng\") and was considered one of Peking Opera's \"Four Great Beards\" , along with Tan Fuying, Yang Baosen, and Xi Xiaobo. He served as a mentor to Li Yuru.\n\n"}
{"id": "4671909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4671909", "title": "Mahfiruz Hatun", "text": "Mahfiruz Hatun\n\nMahfiruz Hatice Hatun ( 1590 – by 1610 or 1620) was a wife of Ottoman Sultan Ahmed I (r. 1603–17) and mother of Sultan Osman II (r. 1618–22).\n\nAccording to historian Baki Tezcan, nothing is known about her except her probable name and period of death. Her Muslim name, \"Mahfiruz\", means \"favourite of the crescent\". Such peculiar names were given to the women of the Imperial Harem.\n\nShe was the first of Ahmed I's three women and bore him Osman II. With the birth of Osman, the couple's first child, Ahmed became the youngest Ottoman sultan to become father, and Osman was the first Ottoman first-born prince to be born in the Imperial capital of Istanbul.\n\n\n\nThe date of her death is undetermined. There are evidence that strongly suggests that she died at latest by 1610. According to Leslie P. Peirce, she was alive when Osman was enthroned as sultan in 1618 after the deposition of incompetent Mustafa I; Peirce believes that she was not living in the palace during his son's reign nor did she act as \"valide sultan\", as privy purse registers listed no \"valide sultan\" during Osman's reign. Also from the middle of 1620, Osman's governess, the \"daye hatun\", began to receive an extraordinary large stipend, one thousand aspers a day rather than her usual two hundrend aspers, an indication that she was now the official stand-in for the Valide Sultan. Mahfiruz may have fallen out of favour, judging by her absence in the palace and burial in Eyüb rather than with her husband, and never have recovered her status as a royal consort. Venetian ambassador Contarini reported the beating of a woman who had irritated Kösem, ordered by the sultan, in 1612, which may be identified to Mahfiruz. She may have been a rival of Kösem, who made efforts to keep Mustafa safe from execution, and saw an obstacle in Mahfiruz. She was buried in the large sanctuary of Eyüp, Istanbul.\n\nIn the 2015 Turkish television series \"\", Mahfiruz was portrayed by actress Dilara Aksüyek. Historical advisors to the series noted that the Sultan was a Circassian by birth. In the fifth episode of the first series, she was introduced as \"Çerkes güzeli Raşa\" (Circassian beauty Rasha) before being renamed to Mahfiruz (Mahfiruze).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42487508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42487508", "title": "Melissa Miller (artist)", "text": "Melissa Miller (artist)\n\nMelissa Miller (born 1951) is an American painter. She was born in Houston, Texas, attended the University of Texas at Austin from 1969 to 1971, and received a B.F.A. from the University of New Mexico in 1974. She exhibited in both the 1983 Whitney Biennial and the 1984 Venice Biennale She taught at the University of Texas at Austin from 1998 until retiring in 2011, and continues to live and paint in Austin.\nHer paintings have evolved from realistic action-packed images of wild and domestic animals, to allegories incorporating both realistic and supernatural creatures.\n\n\"Leopard Dance\" demonstrates the other-worldly nature, bold colors, and large scale of her paintings.\n\nThe Albright–Knox Art Gallery (Buffalo, NY), the Blanton Museum of Art (Austin, Texas), the Dallas Museum of Art, the El Paso Museum of Art, The Grace Museum (Abilene, Texas), the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden (Washington, D. C.), the Honolulu Museum of Art, the Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth, the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, the Museum of Modern Art (New York), the National Museum of Women in the Arts (Washington, D. C.), the Orlando Museum of Art (Orlando, Florida), and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art are among the public collections holding works by Miller.\n\n\"Thematically, I wish my paintings to depict the many facets and layers of life and survival, of which I am a constant and curious observer.\"\n\nMiller has received numerous awards from art associations. They include an award from the \"Anonymous Was a Woman Foundation\" in 2003; also, the Dallas Museum of Art, The Art League of Houston, the Dallas Visual Arts Association, and the National Council of Art Administrators. In 2011 she was named \"Texas State Artist of the Year\" by the Texas Legislature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9261100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9261100", "title": "Mitch Laurence", "text": "Mitch Laurence\n\nMitch Laurence is a fictional character from the ABC daytime soap opera \"One Life to Live\". He was portrayed by Roscoe Born from 1985 to 1987 and again from 2002 to 2003. Born returned from November 9, 2009, to April 6, 2010. Born reappeared again during the series finale prison break storyline on January 3, 2012.\n\nArriving in 1985 and soon wreaking havoc in fictional Llanview, villain Mitch's storyline climaxes in 1986 with his apparent murder, during a season in which the series rose from #4 to #3 in the Nielsen ratings. He reappears alive in 2002 seeking to exact his revenge on long running \"One Life to Live\" heroine Viki Lord Buchanan; seemingly killed again in 2003, he is resurrected a second time in 2009.\n\nCharismatic Mitch Laurence arrives in Llanview in 1985 and sets his sights on ex-girlfriend Tina Clayton, who has just discovered that she is the daughter of deceased millionaire Victor Lord. Finding out that Victor's estate will revert to Tina if Victor's other daughter Viki Lord Buchanan has a relapse of her multiple personality disorder, Mitch convinces Tina to assist him in his plan to do just that. But when Tina realizes that Mitch actually intends to murder Viki's husband Clint Buchanan and frame Viki, she tries to stop him. Mitch kills Harry O'Neill instead, and Tina is arrested. Tina is later exonerated, and Mitch is sent to prison; he \"finds God\" and manages to be freed, soon becoming the leader of a religious cult and preying upon his young female disciples. He then orchestrates the kidnapping of Clint and Viki Buchanan's newborn daughter Jessica by his follower Allison Perkins (daughter of Statesville Prison's warden). Jessica is eventually returned, and Mitch is killed on July 18, 1986, by a blow to the back of the head from Dorian Lord as he attempts to rape her daughter, Cassie Callison.\n\nOn April 1, 1987, Mitch is seen again—this time as a voyager on the “Star Ascension\", during Viki’s out-of-body experience as she suffered from a brain aneurysm. During the high-stakes dream, which dictates whether she would live or die, Viki is able to ultimately destroy his power over her.\n\nNatalie Balsom arrives in Llanview in 2001, revealing that she is the biological daughter of Viki and Clint Buchanan. At first it is believed that when Allison Perkins had kidnapped the Buchanan baby in 1987, another child was returned and grew up to be Jessica. But when a DNA test on Jessica proves that she is also Viki's daughter, the real story comes out. Mitch Laurence had secretly raped a drugged Viki around the same time she conceived a child with Clint. Viki unknowingly became pregnant with fraternal twins, one fathered by Clint (Natalie) and the other fathered by Mitch (Jessica). Dr. Walter Balsom, who had been one of Mitch's disciples, took Mitch's daughter during delivery, and Viki never knew she'd had more than one child. Mitch, however, wanted his daughter to grow up loved by Viki in the lap of luxury, and he sent Allison to kidnap Clint's child. After replacing her with Mitch's daughter (who would become Jessica), they gave Clint's daughter (who would become Natalie) to Dr. Balsom and his wife Roxy.\n\nIn 2002, Mitch returns from the dead; he had not actually died at Dorian's hands, but Dr. Balsom had helped him make it look that way. As \"Michael Lazarus\", Mitch woos Natalie into marriage. The union is soon annulled when his true identity is revealed, but in 2003 Mitch marries a newly-returned-to-town Dorian, who wants in on Mitch's true plan: to take control of Victor Lord's estate. A very-much-alive Victor has been living in seclusion but is now in need of a heart transplant; Mitch promises him a perfect match in exchange for his fortune, and Victor agrees. Mitch's own daughter Jessica has the matching organ, but he offers up Natalie instead; Viki's arrival stops the operation, and Victor soon dies in front of his shocked daughter. Later, Jessica accidentally pushes Mitch into the Llantano River. Mitch regains his sight (after an accident had blinded him) and is rescued by Viki's half-brother Victor Lord Jr. (who is impersonating Mitch's brother Walker). Mitch kidnaps Jessica; Viki and Antonio rescue her and Mitch is arrested. He is later released from jail by Victor, who leads him to the docks to make an escape. Mitch tries to kill Victor. Jessica appears and knocks Mitch over the head with a lead pipe, killing him instantly. Not wanting Jessica to take the blame, Victor plants false evidence to point suspicion at others. The body is discovered by Tina's daughter Sarah Roberts, and though Victor and Jessica each confess to killing Mitch, Police Commissioner Bo Buchanan is inclined to look the other way and abandon the case.\n\nIn 2009, Jessica is unnerved when someone makes it appear as though her deceased husband Nash Brennan is alive and stalking her. Natalie's husband Jared Banks appears responsible until Mitch reappears to a stunned Jessica, Natalie, and Jared in California on November 9, 2009. Meanwhile, in Michigan, Roxy's son Rex Balsom's long search for the truth reveals that his biological father is Mitch. Mitch shoots Jared to death and is jailed; on December 3, 2009, he pops out of Jared's coffin during the funeral service, having been released after a mix-up with the evidence against him. On December 8, 2009, a distraught Natalie stabs Mitch, who survives. In January 2010, new mayor Dorian Lord gives in to Mitch's threats against her family and effects Mitch's release from jail. He soon kidnaps Jessica as part of his plan to kidnap Rex's soon-to-be-born baby with Stacy Morasco and have Jessica raise the child in captivity. His plan foiled, Mitch is furious when Dorian betrays him and vows revenge.\n\nDorian's sister, Melinda, turns up dead. It is then later revealed that Schuyler Joplin is Mitch's biological son with Roxy and therefore Rex is not, as the two babies where switched on the night they were born by Allison years before. After this, it is briefly mentioned Mitch is still alive and has been taken to Statesville Prison.\n\nOn January 3, 2012, Mitch, along the other inmates, escapes from Statesville prison and goes directly to Llanfair to see Jessica again. There, he meets Natalie and brags about killing her former husband, Jared. Natalie shoves Mitch down onto the sofa and starts strangling him. She turns to run, but Mitch puts her in a headlock. He grabs her by the hair and starts to head upstairs. They hear Liam's cry through the baby monitor. Mitch thinks it is his grandson, Ryder. From the staircase, Clint calls out that Viki is taking care of the baby. When he enters the living room, Mitch pulls a gun on him. Clint makes a move for the gun, and Mitch slams it down hard on Clint's back.\n\nWith Clint unconscious, he takes Natalie, now a hostage, to a church where he believes his followers will celebrate his escape from Statesville. Meanwhile, John discovers a hurt Clint, and he tells John what had happened. At the same time, Viki comes down stairs to find out Natalie has been kidnapped by Mitch. Mitch soon calls Llanfair and demands a trade: He will give Natalie back for his daughter, Jessica. Jessica arrives and agrees to help save her sister. However, Viki and Clint want John to devise a plan where Jessica is not involved. John and Jessica eventually go to the church where Mitch and Natalie were, finding Mitch preparing to rape Natalie. John and Mitch soon reached an impasse on how the trade should be executed. After a lot of arguing and gun pointing, Jessica is handed over to Mitch, letting Natalie free. Jessica responds to Mitch's happiness by spitting in his face, quickly angering Mitch. Ford shows up and fights with Mitch until he is hit by a falling chandelier after Mitch's gun goes off. Ford is sent to the hospital. Mitch grabs Natalie and puts his gun to her head, again. John tells Mitch it is over, while he believes everything has just begun. Natalie indicates to John to take a shot at Mitch, which he does. Mitch falls to the ground after taking a bullet to the chest, seemingly finishing him off for good.\n\nJohn asks Natalie if she would like him to make certain Mitch is dead. Natalie replies, \"Well, it is Mitch,\" alluding to his several previous \"deaths\". Mitch is, in fact, not dead and, after quickly reviving, he begins to fight John for control of a handgun. Several shots ring out and Mitch falls dead, courtesy of Natalie. She finds some closure in being the one to have finally killed Mitch Laurence. When last seen, Mitch's spirit is forcibly escorted to hell by the spirits of Stacy Morasco and Eddie Ford, and Stacy tells Mitch that Allison lied to him about Jessica being his biological child.\n\n"}
{"id": "13568300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13568300", "title": "Mori Sosen", "text": "Mori Sosen\n\nMori Sosen is famous for his many paintings depicting monkeys. He also painted other animals, such as deer, boars, and peafowl. Robert van Gulik called him \"an undisputed master\" of the painting of the Japanese macaque. When a gibbon was brought in Japan by the Dutch in 1809, creating somewhat of a sensation (gibbons had long been depicted by Japanese artists, based on Chinese paintings of the animal, but no one in Japan had seen a live gibbon for centuries), it was Mori who had created a graphic record of this event as well.\n\nIt is unknown whether he was born in Osaka, Nagasaki, or Nishinomiya, but he lived in Osaka for most of his life.\n"}
{"id": "44819643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44819643", "title": "Moseley Baker", "text": "Moseley Baker\n\nMoseley Baker (September 20, 1802 – November 8, 1848) was the Speaker of the House of the Alabama House of Representatives and served two terms in the Congress of the Republic of Texas, where he led impeachment proceedings against President Sam Houston. During the Texas Revolution, he led a company of men fighting in the Texian Army and was wounded at the Battle of San Jacinto. He was named a brigadier general of the Republic of Texas militia.\n\nMoseley Baker was born September 20, 1802 in Norfolk, Virginia, to Horace Baker and Rebecca Moseley. He moved to Montgomery, Alabama as a young man. There he became a lawyer, and was also the founder and first editor of the \"Montgomery Advertiser\". He was elected to the Alabama State Legislature in 1829 and was elected Speaker of the House.\n\nBaker lived above his means and soon found himself deeply in debt. In 1832 he was arrested for defrauding the Bank of Alabama. He soon escaped and made his way to Mexican Texas. He arrived in San Felipe de Austin with only $1 in his pocket. After borrowing $10 from another resident, he opened his own law practice.\n\nBaker, his wife, and their daughter moved to Liberty in March 1835. In October he was granted land in Lorenzo de Zavala's colony on Galveston Bay.\n\nAs relations soured between Texas colonists and the Mexican government, Baker began to advocate for independence from Mexico. In July 1835, Mexican general Martin Perfecto de Cos issued warrants for the arrest of Baker and five other men, all accused of land speculation or being part of the Anahuac Disturbances. Local officials refused to enforce the warrants, and the men were never arrested. All of the men were well respected in their communities, and the warrants greatly angered other colonists. This, combined with news that Cos was leading a large military force to Texas, convinced many colonists to embrace the idea of revolt. In August, Baker began recruiting men willing to fight for independence.\n\nWar broke out in October 1835. Baker was a private at the first battle, in Gonzales. When that battle ended, Baker accompanied the bulk of the army to San Antonio de Béxar, where they commenced a siege of Cos's troops, garrisoned in the Alamo Mission. There were several small skirmishes during the siege. Baker fought in the Grass Fight and participated in the final assault on the city in early December. Cos's troops were defeated and marched out of Texas.\n\nWith no Mexican troops remaining in Texas, many Texans believed the war was over. Men, including Baker, left the army to return to their families. In February 1836, however, Mexican President Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna led a large contingent of Mexican troops into Texas. Santa Anna brought the bulk of his army to Béxar, where they besieged the small Texan force garrisoned at the Alamo. Texan commander William B. Travis sent dispatches around the region, begging for reinforcements.\n\nOn February 29, 1836 Baker joined the militia newly organized at San Felipe. He was elected captain of the company, which had about 30 members. The company arrived in Gonzales on March 6 to join the other forces that were gathering to reinforce the Alamo. As no central commander was present, the men elected Baker to take charge of all of the recruits in Gonzales. He marched them to the east bank of the Guadalupe River, about below the town, and made camp.\n\nSam Houston arrived in Gonzales about 4 pm on March 11. He announced that the Convention of 1836 had declared Texas an independent nation and read the men the Texas Declaration of Independence. The new interim government had placed Houston in charge of the recruits gathered in Gonzales. That evening, two men arrived from Béxar with news that the Mexican army had retaken the Alamo, and the Texian defenders were dead; Houston promptly arrested the men as spies.\n\nThe following day, Houston organized the army. All of the companies gathered, including Baker's, were placed into the First Regiment of Infantry, with Edward Burleson in charge. Houston sent scouts to determine what had actually happened in Béxar. They returned on March 13 with Susanna Dickinson, who had been inside the Alamo during the battle. Dickinson warned that more than 2,000 Mexican troops were on their way to Gonzales. Local citizens panicked; Houston ordered an immediate retreat, promising that his new army would protect the citizens as they fled.\n\nBaker and the rest of the army marched for 26 of the next 38 hours. Over the next week, the Texian army continued to head east and north, away from the Mexican soldiers. Texian volunteers flocked to Houston's force. Baker helped with the recruitment; on March 22 he wrote a letter to the \"Telegraph and Texas Register\", calling for volunteers and asking the women of Texas to convince their husbands and sons to join.\n\nOn March 23, news reached Houston's army that General James Fannin had been defeated at the Battle of Coleto. Houston ordered another retreat, so Baker and his men headed east toward the Brazos River. After a brief rest in San Felipe, Houston ordered the army to march to Groce's Landing, away. Baker and Captain Wyly Martin absolutely refused to retreat further. Houston chose not to directly challenge the men, fearing he would lose control of his army if Baker or Martin were able to gather enough troops to their perspective. Instead, he gave each of them orders to remain behind and protect key crossings along the Brazos.\n\nAt this point, Baker had about 40 men with him. His company built fortifications along the east bank of the Brazos, directly across the river from San Felipe. By March 31, they had dug an L-shaped ditch, long, and piled tree branches in front. Two days later, Baker's men found four survivors from Fannin's regiment wandering the prairie. The men had escaped after the Battle of Refugio and were searching for the remainder of the Texian army. One of the survivors, Samuel G. Hardaway, joined Baker's company. Baker requested reinforcements to hold the San Felipe crossing, and within days had about 120 men under his command. He informed Houston this ought to be a large enough number to hold the crossing against the Mexican army.\n\nOn March 29, scouts Deaf Smith and John York mistook a cattle drive for a cavalry troop and informed Baker that the Mexican army was only a few miles from his position. Baker ordered that the town be burned, saying Houston had ordered it so. Moses Austin Bryan, nephew of the founder of San Felipe, refused to start the fires, so Baker personally set a torch to the first home. Baker and his men remained camped on the east bank.\n\nSanta Anna's troops marched into San Felipe at dawn on April 7. Knowing that the Mexican army was close, on April 6 Baker had ordered his men to hide all the boats and rafts along the river. He then sent three men as pickets on the west bank. Private Bill Simpson took the third watch, and promptly fell asleep. The Mexican advance guard captured him; the other two escaped and made it to safety with the rest of Baker's troops. Simpson told Santa Anna everything he knew - that Houston was at Groce's Landing with an army numbering approximately 800 men, and that the Texian army meant to retreat all the way to the Trinity River if the Mexican army crossed the Brazos.\n\nThroughout that day and the next, Baker's troops were under near-constant fire from Mexican snipers and artillery. Private John Bricker was hit with grapeshot from the cannon, becoming the first Texian casualty of the San Jacinto campaign. Mexican troops built several rafts, but Baker's men fired enough that Santa Anna decided it was unwise to try to cross at that point.\n\nBy April 9, the Mexican artillery maneuvered close enough to strike Baker's makeshift fortifications. Heavy rains caused the river to rise, and the Texian camp was soon surrounded by floodwaters. Their only way out was the main road. Baker called for a vote, and the men voted to retreat. Soon after they left, Mexican forces withdrew from San Felipe, and none of the scouts were able to discern where they had gone.\n\nBaker's men and those of Wyly Martin rejoined the main body of Houston's army in the middle of the night of April 14. Houston ordered an early march on April 15. Martin told Houston that his men deserved a chance to rest and eat breakfast, and they would not be marching until after they had done so. Angry, Houston ordered Martin to eat and then escort the Texian families fleeing the area to the Trinity River. Worried he would be ordered to take care of women and children instead of fighting the Mexican army, Baker ordered his men to be ready to march - without their breakfast.\n\nThe Texian army made camp at Lynchburg, on the banks of Buffalo Bayou, on April 19. The following day, Santa Anna his portion of the Mexican army to a campsite less than away. Eager to test the strength of the Texians, Santa Anna sent his artillery, a 9- or 12-pounder cannon known as the Golden Standard, to a spot about from where the Texians had concealed themselves in a grove of timber. Houston ordered Captain James C. Neill to take the two Texian cannon to the edge of the trees and return fire. The cannons traded shots for approximately 30 minutes. Both Neill and Mexican Captain Fernando Urriza, who commanded the Golden Standard's crew, were injured. The infantry were eager to join the fight; Baker later recounted that \"it was with the utmost difficulty that I could prevent my company from rushing on the enemy\".\n\nThe skirmish lasted for three and one-half hours, with a small number of cavalry and infantry on each side engaging. Mexican forces finally withdrew to their camp. Later that afternoon, Houston allowed Colonel Sidney Sherman to take the Texian cavalry and skirmish again. Part of the Mexican infantry joined the battle, and Sherman was forced to withdraw when Houston refused to send in a larger part of his force. Many Texian soldiers, including Baker, were angry that Houston had not allowed the rest of the infantry to join the fight. Baker began composing a letter on behalf of the army, complaining that Houston had no intention of engaging in battle, and would instead delay until Santa Anna's troops had been reinforced and grossly outnumbered the Texian army.\n\nSanta Anna received approximately 400 reinforcements at 8 a.m. the following morning, bringing his army to 1,250 men. Texian troops were convinced that a Mexican attack was imminent. Santa Anna's men had spent much of the night preparing for a Texian attack, building makeshift breastworks around their exposed camp. The newly arrived troops were no better rested - they had marched continuously for 24 hours with no sleep or food. As the morning faded away with no sign that the Texians were preparing an attack, Santa Anna relaxed his guard. His troops, including those who had been standing guard, were given permission to rest.\n\nAt noon, Houston held a council of war with his senior officers. They voted to fight at some point that day. Edward Burleson, commander of the First Regiment of Texian Volunteers, called the officers under his command together. They were asked to vote on whether to attack at 4 pm that day or 4 am the following morning. Baker was one of only two officers to vote for the pre-dawn hour. The Second Regiment held a similar vote.\n\nAt 3:30 pm, the Texian army lined up. Baker's men, as Burleson's First Regiment, were in the center of the line. Baker addressed the men, giving a \"rousing, inspirational\" speech that referenced the sacrifices both civilians and members of the Texan military had endured. The speech ended with \"Remember Goliad! Remember the Alamo!\". Baker's men reportedly hoisted a red handkerchief to serve as their flag, and as a warning to the Mexican troops that they would offer no quarter.\n\nAt 4 pm, the Texian army advanced, commencing the Battle of San Jacinto. They crept forward in silence, hidden by the tall grass. Houston ordered them to charge when they were about from the Mexican camp. Baker was one of the first wounded; First Lieutenant John Borden stepped forward to lead his company.\n\nFrom October 1836 through June 1837, Baker served in the First Congress of the Republic of Texas, representing Austin County. He attempted to impeach Houston, who had been elected President of the new country; the impeachment proceedings failed. After his term expired, Baker moved to Galveston County. There he earned a second term in Congress, serving from November 1838 through January 1839.\n\nThe next Congress named Baker a brigadier general in the militia. He led a campaign against Indians along the Brazos River. Baker ran for a third term, to serve in the Sixth Congress, in 1841, but lost to Archibald Wynns by one vote. He was reappointed a brigadier general in 1842, following Mexican General Adrian Woll's invasion of Béxar. Baker raised a company of men but fell ill and was forced to hand command to Gardiner Smith.\n\nBaker continued his feud with Houston, culminating in an 1844 open letter that named Houston \"the greatest curse that Providence in its wrath could have sent upon the country.\" Following the death of his wife, Baker became a Methodist preacher. He promoted his version of the religion through his own newspaper, \"True Evangelist\". Although Methodist leaders, who disagreed with some of Baker's teachings, asked him to discontinue publishing the paper, Baker refused.\n\nBaker died of yellow fever on November 4, 1848 in Houston. His body was first laid to rest at Jefferson Davis Cemetery before being moved to the Episcopal Cemetery. In 1929, his remains were exhumed and reinterred at the Texas State Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "25192824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25192824", "title": "Murad Tagilov", "text": "Murad Tagilov\n\nMurad Shamanovich Tagilov (; born 27 January 1990) is a Russian footballer. \n\nHe made his Russian Premier League debut for FC Terek Grozny on 21 November 2009 in a game against FC Kuban Krasnodar.\n\n"}
{"id": "29204841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29204841", "title": "Nadine Ames", "text": "Nadine Ames\n\nNadine Alexandra Dewi Ames (born May 23, 1991) is an Indonesian beauty pageant titleholder who was crowned Puteri Indonesia 2010 and represented her country in the 2011 Miss Universe pageant, but she was unplaced in the Miss Universe 2011.\n\nAmes was born in Winchester, England. Her family moved to Jakarta when she was two months old. She spent most of her childhood in Jakarta, being schooled in North Jakarta International School and Gandhi Memorial International School, she also took modeling course in OQ Modelling School, Kelapa Gading which open her way to take role in Indonesia soap opera \"Inikah Cinta\".\nShe is fluent in English, French and Indonesian.\n\nAmes, who stands , competed as the representative of Jakarta SCR 4, one of 38 finalists in her country's national beauty pageant, Puteri Indonesia 2010, held in Jakarta on October 8, 2010, where she became the eventual winner of the title, represented Indonesia in the 2011 Miss Universe pageant, broadcast live from São Paulo, Brazil on September 12, 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "29871453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29871453", "title": "Neil Diamond (filmmaker)", "text": "Neil Diamond (filmmaker)\n\nNeil Diamond is a Cree-Canadian filmmaker based in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, born and raised in Waskaganish, Quebec. Working with Rezolution Pictures, Diamond has directed the documentary films \"Reel Injun\", \"The Last Explorer\", \"One More River\", \"Heavy Metal: A Mining Disaster in Northern Quebec\" and \"Cree Spoken Here\", along with three seasons of \"DAB IYIYUU\", a series for the Aboriginal Peoples Television Network about Cree elders.\n\nIn the 2008 docudrama \"The Last Explorer\", Diamond explored the story of his great-uncle George Elson, a Cree guide who helped to map Labrador as part of an ill-fated 1903 expedition with Leonidas Hubbard and Dillon Wallace, and a return voyage in 1905 with Hubbard's widow Mina Hubbard.\n\nAs of April 2011, Diamond is developing a project with Inuit filmmaker Zacharias Kunuk about the 18th-century conflict between Cree and Inuit, which lasted almost a century.\n\n\"Reel Injun\" was inspired by Diamond's own experiences as a child in Waskaganish, where he and other Native children would play cowboys and Indians after local screenings of Westerns in their remote community. Diamond remembers that although the children were in fact \"Indians,\" they all wanted to be the cowboys. Afterwards, when he was old enough to move south to study, he would be questioned by non-Native people about whether his people lived in teepees and rode horses, causing Diamond to realize that their preconceptions about Native people were also derived from movies. These stereotypes motivated him to help America see the true identity of what a Native American was.\n\nDiamond received the award for Best Direction in a Documentary Program at the 2010 Gemini Awards for \"Reel Injun\". It also earned him a 2011 Peabody Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "33735310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33735310", "title": "Palazzo Grazioli", "text": "Palazzo Grazioli\n\nPalazzo Grazioli is a building situated at Via del Plebiscito 102 between the Palazzo Doria Pamphili and Palazzo Altieri in Rome, Italy, in an area rich in archaeological remains of ancient Rome, the result of numerous modifications and restoration work carried out by several noble Roman families who lived there over the centuries.\n\nThe oldest sources connects the palace to the Ercolani family and was initially built by Giacomo della Porta. The family of Luigi Gottifredi, a priest of the Society of Jesus, who settled there, made a radical renovation employing Camillo Arcucci, an architect of the Roman Baroque, in the years 1645 to 1650. In the early 19th century, the palace was the residence of the Ambassador of Austria and then the Infanta of Spain and Duchess of Lucca, Maria Luisa of Bourbon-Spain who died there in 1824. It was later acquired by Commander Grazioli, then Baron of Castelporziano and Duke of Santa Croce di Magliano, who in 1863 entrusted the restoration which ended in 1874.\n\nThe facade of the building on Via del Plebiscito is decorated with pilasters with capitals. At the center of it opens the door flanked by two Doric columns of gray granite and topped by a balcony.\n\nThe palace is known for being a home of Silvio Berlusconi, who rented a floor of the palace. He announced his resignation there on 12 November 2011.\n"}
{"id": "35214129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35214129", "title": "Paul Mbiybe Verdzekov", "text": "Paul Mbiybe Verdzekov\n\nPaul Mbiybe Verdzekov (January 22, 1931 – January 26, 2010) was a Cameroonian prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. He served as bishop of Bamenda, Cameroon from 1970 till 1982 and as archbishop from 1982 till 2006.\n\nBorn in Shisong on January 22, 1931, Paul Mbiybe Verdzekov was ordained to the priesthood on December 20, 1961.\n\nOn August 13, 1970, he was appointed bishop of the newly created diocese of Bamenda. Verdzekov received his episcopal consecration on the following November 8 from Julius Joseph Willem Peeters, bishop of Buéa, with the then bishop of Garoua, Yves-Joseph-Marie Plumey, and the bishop of Sangmélima, Pierre-Célestin Nkou, serving as co-consecrators.\n\nOn March 18, 1982 he became archbishop of Bamenda when his diocese was elevated to archdiocese by Pope John Paul II. Archbishop Verdzekov retired on January 23, 2006. He died in 2010, aged 79, as Archbishop Emeritus of Bamenda.\n"}
{"id": "275297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275297", "title": "Poles", "text": "Poles\n\nThe Poles (, ; singular masculine: \"Polak\", singular feminine: \"Polka\"), commonly referred to as the Polish people, are a nation and West Slavic ethnic group native to Poland in Central Europe who share a common ancestry, culture, history, and are native speakers of the Polish language. The population of self-declared Poles in Poland is estimated at 37,394,000 out of an overall population of 38,538,000 (based on the 2011 census), of whom 36,522,000 declared Polish alone.\n\nA wide-ranging Polish diaspora (the \"Polonia\") exists throughout Europe, the Americas, and in Australasia. Today the largest urban concentrations of Poles are within the Warsaw and Silesian metropolitan areas.\n\nPoland's history dates back over a thousand years, to c. 930–960 AD, when the Polans – an influential West Slavic tribe in the Greater Poland region, now home to such cities as Poznań, Gniezno, Kalisz, Konin and Września – united various Lechitic tribes under what became the Piast dynasty, thus creating the Polish state. The subsequent Christianization of Poland, in 966 CE, marked Poland's advent to the community of Western Christendom.\n\nPoles have made important contributions to the world in every major field of human endeavor. Notable Polish émigrés – many of them forced from their homeland by historic vicissitudes – have included physicists Marie Skłodowska Curie and Joseph Rotblat, mathematician Stanisław Ulam, pianists Fryderyk Chopin and Arthur Rubinstein, actresses Helena Modjeska and Pola Negri, novelist Joseph Conrad, military leaders Tadeusz Kościuszko and Casimir Pulaski, U.S. National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski, politician Rosa Luxemburg, filmmakers Samuel Goldwyn and the Warner Brothers, cartoonist Max Fleischer, and cosmeticians Helena Rubinstein and Max Factor.\n\nSlavs have been in the territory of modern Poland for over 1500 years. They organized into tribal units, of which the larger ones were later known as the Polish tribes; the names of many tribes are found on the list compiled by the anonymous Bavarian Geographer in the 9th century. In the 9th and 10th centuries the tribes gave rise to developed regions along the upper Vistula (the Vistulans within the Great Moravian Empire sphere), the Baltic Sea coast and in Greater Poland. The last tribal undertaking resulted in the 10th century in a lasting political structure and state, Poland, one of the West Slavic nations.\n\nThe concept which has become known as the Piast Idea, the chief proponent of which was Jan Ludwik Popławski, is based on the statement that the Piast homeland was inhabited by so-called \"native\" aboriginal Slavs and Slavonic Poles since time immemorial and only later was \"infiltrated\" by \"alien\" Celts, Germans, Baltic peoples and others. After 1945 the so-called \"autochthonous\" or \"aboriginal\" school of Polish prehistory received official backing in Poland and a considerable degree of popular support. According to this view, the Lusatian Culture which archaeologists have identified between the Oder and the Vistula in the early Iron Age, is said to be Slavonic; all non-Slavonic tribes and peoples recorded in the area at various points in ancient times are dismissed as \"migrants\" and \"visitors\". In contrast, the critics of this theory, such as Marija Gimbutas, regard it as an unproved hypothesis and for them the date and origin of the westward migration of the Slavs is largely uncharted; the Slavonic connections of the Lusatian Culture are entirely imaginary; and the presence of an ethnically mixed and constantly changing collection of peoples on the Middle European Plain is taken for granted.\n\nPolish people are the sixth largest national group in the European Union. Estimates vary depending on source, though available data suggest a total number of around 60 million people worldwide (with roughly 21 million living outside of Poland, many of whom are not of Polish ethnicity, but Polish nationals). There are almost 38 million Poles in Poland alone. There are also Polish minorities in the surrounding countries including (Germany), and indigenous minorities in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, northern and eastern Lithuania, western Ukraine, and western Belarus. There are some smaller indigenous minorities in nearby countries such as Moldova. There is also a Polish minority in Russia which includes indigenous Poles as well as those forcibly deported during and after World War II; the total number of Poles in what was the former Soviet Union is estimated at up to 3 million.\n\nThe term \"Polonia\" is usually used in Poland to refer to people of Polish origin who live outside Polish borders, officially estimated at around 10 to 20 million. There is a notable Polish diaspora in the United States, Brazil, and Canada. France has a historic relationship with Poland and has a relatively large Polish-descendant population. Poles have lived in France since the 18th century. In the early 20th century, over a million Polish people settled in France, mostly during world wars, among them Polish émigrés fleeing either Nazi occupation or later Soviet rule.\n\nIn the United States, a significant number of Polish immigrants settled in Chicago, Ohio, Detroit, New Jersey, New York City, Orlando, Pittsburgh, Buffalo, and New England. The highest concentration of Polish Americans in a single New England municipality is in New Britain, Connecticut. The majority of Polish Canadians have arrived in Canada since World War II. The number of Polish immigrants increased between 1945 and 1970, and again after the end of Communism in Poland in 1989. In Brazil the majority of Polish immigrants settled in Paraná State. Smaller, but significant numbers settled in the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Espírito Santo and São Paulo (state). The city of Curitiba has the second largest Polish diaspora in the world (after Chicago) and Polish music, dishes and culture are quite common in the region.\n\nA recent large migration of Poles took place following Poland's accession to the European Union and opening of the EU's labor market; with an approximate number of 2 million, primarily young, Poles taking up jobs abroad. It is estimated that over half a million Polish people have come to work in the United Kingdom from Poland. Since 2011, Poles have been able to work freely throughout the EU and not just in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Sweden where they have had full working rights since Poland's EU accession in 2004. The Polish community in Norway has increased substantially and has grown to a total number of 120,000, making Poles the largest immigrant group in Norway.\n\nThe culture of Poland has a history of 1000 years. Poland, located in Central Europe, developed a character that was influenced by its geography at the confluence of fellow Central European cultures (Austrian, Czech, German, Hungarian, and Slovak) as well as from Western European cultures (French, Spanish and Dutch), Southern European cultures (Italian and Greek), Baltic/Northeastern cultures (Lithuanian, Estonian and Latvian), Eastern European cultures (Belarusian and Ukrainian) and Western Asian/Caucasian cultures (Ottoman Turkish, Armenian, and Georgian). Influences were also conveyed by immigrants (Hungarian, Slovak, Czech, Jewish, German and Dutch), political alliances (with Lithuania, Hungary, Saxony, France and Sweden), conquests of the Polish-Lithuanian state (Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, Romania and Latvia) and conquerors of the Polish lands (the Russian Empire, Kingdom of Prussia and the Habsburg monarchy, later to be known as the Austrian Empire or Austria-Hungary).\n\nOver time, Polish culture has been greatly influenced by its ties with the Germanic, Hungarian,\nand Latinate world and other ethnic groups and minorities living in Poland. The people of Poland have traditionally been seen as hospitable to artists from abroad (especially Italy) and open to cultural and artistic trends popular in other European countries. Owing to this central location, the Poles came very early into contact with both civilizations – eastern and western, and as a result developed economically, culturally, and politically. A German general Helmut Carl von Moltke, in his \"Poland. A historical sketch\" (1885), stated that \"Poland of the fifteenth century was one of the most civilised states of Europe.\"\n\nIn the 19th and 20th centuries, the Polish focus on cultural advancement often took precedence over political and economic activity, experiencing severe crises, especially during World War II and in the following years. These factors have contributed to the versatile nature of Polish art, with all its complex nuances.\n\nPoland was for centuries a refuge to many Jews from all over Europe; in the twentieth century, a large number emigrated to Israel. Several prominent Israeli statesmen were born in Poland, including Israel's founder David Ben-Gurion, former President of Israel Shimon Peres, and Prime Ministers Yitzhak Shamir and Menachem Begin.\n\nThe Polish language () is a West Slavic language and the official language of Poland. Its written form uses the Polish alphabet, which is the Latin alphabet with the addition of a few diacritic marks.\n\nPoland is the most linguistically homogeneous European country; nearly 97% of Poland's citizens declare Polish as their mother tongue. Elsewhere, ethnic Poles constitute large minorities in (Germany), northern Slovakia and the Czech Republic, Hungary, northeast Lithuania and western Belarus and Ukraine. Polish is the most widely used minority language in Lithuania's Vilnius County (26% of the population, according to the 2001 census results) and is found elsewhere in northeastern and western Lithuania. In Ukraine it is most common in the western Lviv and Volyn oblast (provinces), while in western Belarus it is used by the significant Polish minority, especially in the Brest and Grodno regions and in areas along the Lithuanian border.\n\nThe geographical distribution of the Polish language was greatly affected by the border changes and population transfers that followed World War II. Poles resettled in the \"Recovered Territories\" in the west and north. Some Poles remained in the previously Polish-ruled territories in the east that were annexed by the USSR, resulting in the present-day Polish-speaking minorities in Lithuania, Belarus, and Ukraine, although many Poles were expelled or emigrated from those areas to areas within Poland's new borders. Meanwhile, the flight and expulsion of Germans, as well as the expulsion of Ukrainians and resettlement of Ukrainians within Poland, contributed to the country's linguistic homogeneity.\n\nPolish-speakers use the language in a uniform manner throughout most of Poland, though numerous languages and dialects coexist alongside the standard Polish language. The most common dialects in Poland are Silesian, spoken in Upper Silesia, and Kashubian, widely spoken in the north.\n\nEducation has been of prime interest to Poland since the early 12th century. The catalog of the library of the Cathedral Chapter in Kraków dating from 1110 shows that Polish scholars already then had access to literature from all over Europe. In 1364 King Casimir III the Great founded the Kraków Academy, which would become Jagiellonian University, one of the great universities of Europe. The Polish people have made considerable contributions in the fields of science, technology and mathematics.\n\nThe list of early famous scientists in Poland begins with the 13th-century Vitello and includes the polymath and astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus, who formulated a model of the universe that placed the Sun rather than the Earth at its center; the publication of Copernicus' book \"De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" (On the Revolutions of the Celestial Spheres) just before his death in 1543 is considered a major event in the history of science, triggering the Copernican Revolution and making an important contribution to the Scientific Revolution. In 1773 King Stanisław August Poniatowski established the Commission of National Education, the world's first ministry of education.\n\nAfter the 1795 third partition of Poland, no free Polish state existed. The 19th and 20th centuries saw many Polish scientists working abroad. The greatest was Maria Skłodowska Curie (1867–1934), a physicist and chemist who conducted pioneering research on radioactivity and was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize, the first person and only woman to win twice, the only person to win twice in multiple sciences, and was part of the Curie family legacy of five Nobel Prizes. Another notable Polish expatriate scientist was Ignacy Domeyko (1802–89), a geologist and mineralogist who lived and worked in South America, in Chile.\n\nKazimierz Funk (1884–1967), whose name is commonly anglicized as \"Casimir Funk\", was a Polish biochemist, generally credited with being among the first to formulate (in 1912) the concept of vitamins, which he called \"vital amines\" or \"vitamines\".\n\nAccording to NASA, Polish scientists were among the pioneers of rocketry.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century, Poland was a world center of mathematics. Outstanding Polish mathematicians formed the Lwów School of Mathematics (including Stefan Banach, Hugo Steinhaus, Stanisław Ulam) and Warsaw School of Mathematics (including Alfred Tarski, Kazimierz Kuratowski, Wacław Sierpiński). World War II pushed many of them into exile; Benoit Mandelbrot's family left Poland when he was still a child. An alumnus of the Warsaw School of Mathematics was Antoni Zygmund, a shaper of 20th-century mathematical analysis.\n\nMarian Rejewski (1905–80), a Polish mathematician, in December 1932 solved the plugboard-equipped Enigma machine, the main cipher device used by Nazi Germany. The cryptologic successes of Rejewski and his mathematician colleagues Jerzy Różycki and Henryk Zygalski, over six and a half years later, jump-started British reading of Enigma in the Second World War; the intelligence so gained, code-named \"Ultra\", contributed, perhaps decisively, to the defeat of Germany.\n\nSir Józef Rotblat (1908–2005), a Polish physicist, who left the US Manhattan Project on grounds of conscience. His work on nuclear fallout was a major contribution toward the ratification of the 1963 Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. A signatory of the Russell–Einstein Manifesto, he was secretary-general of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs from their founding until 1973. He shared, with the Pugwash Conferences, the 1995 Nobel Peace Prize for efforts toward nuclear disarmament.\n\nHilary Koprowski (19162013) was a Polish virologist and immunologist, and the inventor of the world's first effective live polio vaccine. While in the United States, he authored or co-authored over 875 scientific papers and co-edited several scientific journals. Aleksander Wolszczan (born 1946), a Polish astronomer, is the co-discoverer of the first extrasolar planets and pulsar planets.\n\nToday Poland has over 100 institutions of post-secondary education – technical, medical, economic, as well as 500 universities – located in major cities such as Gdańsk, Kraków, Wrocław, Lublin, Łódź, Poznań, Rzeszów and Warsaw. They employ over 61,000 scientists and scholars. Another 300 research-and-development institutes are home to some 10,000 researchers. There are also a number of smaller laboratories. Altogether, these institutions support some 91,000 scientists and scholars.\n\nThe origin of Polish music can be traced as far back as the 13th century, from which manuscripts have been found in Stary Sącz, containing polyphonic compositions related to the Parisian Notre Dame School. Other early compositions, such as the melody of \"Bogurodzica\", may also date back to this period. The first known notable composer, however, Mikołaj z Radomia, lived in the 15th century.\n\nDuring the 16th century, mostly two musical groups—both based in Kraków and belonging to the King and Archbishop of Wawel—led the rapid innovation of Polish music. Composers writing during this period include Wacław of Szamotuły, Mikołaj Zieleński, and Mikołaj Gomółka. Diomedes Cato, a native-born Italian who lived in Kraków from about the age of five, became one of the most famous lutenists at the court of Sigismund III, and not only imported some of the musical styles from southern Europe, but blended them with native folk music.\n\nIn the last years of the 16th century and the first part of the 17th century, a number of Italian musicians were guests at the royal courts of King Sigismund III Vasa and his son Władysław IV. These included Luca Marenzio, Giovanni Francesco Anerio, and Marco Scacchi. Polish composers from this period focused on baroque religious music, concertos for voices, instruments, and basso continuo, a tradition that continued into the 18th century. The best-remembered composer of this period is Adam Jarzębski, known for his instrumental works such as \"Chromatica\", \"Tamburetta\", \"Sentinella\", \"Bentrovata\", and \"Nova Casa\". Other composers include Grzegorz Gerwazy Gorczycki, Franciszek Lilius, Bartłomiej Pękiel, Stanisław Sylwester Szarzyński and Marcin Mielczewski.\n\nIn addition, a tradition of operatic production began in Warsaw in 1628, with a performance of \"Galatea\" (composer uncertain), the first Italian opera produced outside Italy. Shortly after this performance, the court produced Francesca Caccini's opera \"La liberazione di Ruggiero dall'isola d’Alcina\", which she had written for Prince Władysław three years earlier when he was in Italy. Another first, this is the earliest surviving opera written by a woman. When Władysław became king (as Władysław IV) he oversaw the production of at least ten operas during the late 1630s and 1640s, making Warsaw a center of the art. The composers of these operas are not known: they may have been Poles working under Marco Scacchi in the royal chapel, or they may have been among the Italians imported by Władysław.\n\nThe late 17th century and the 18th century saw Poland in sociopolitical decline, which hindered the development of music. Some composers (such as Jan Stefani and Maciej Kamieński) attempted to create a Polish opera; others imitated foreign composers such as Haydn and Mozart.\n\nThe most important development in this time, however, was the polonaise, perhaps the first distinctively Polish art music. Polonaises for piano were and remain popular, such as those by Michał Kleofas Ogiński, Karol Kurpiński, Juliusz Zarębski, Henryk Wieniawski, Mieczysław Karłowicz, Józef Elsner, and, most famously, Fryderyk Chopin. Chopin remains very well known, and is regarded for composing a wide variety of works, including mazurkas, nocturnes, waltzes and concertos, and using traditional Polish elements in his pieces. The same period saw Stanisław Moniuszko, the leading individual in the successful development of Polish opera, still renowned for operas like \"Halka\" and \"The Haunted Manor\".\n\nPolish folk music was collected in the 19th century by Oskar Kolberg, as part of a wave of Polish national revival. With the coming of the world wars and then the Communist state, folk traditions were oppressed or subsumed into state-approved folk ensembles. The most famous of the state ensembles are Mazowsze and Śląsk, both of which still perform. Though these bands had a regional touch to their output, the overall sound was a homogenized mixture of Polish styles. There were more authentic state-supported groups, such as Słowianki, but the Communist sanitized image of folk music made the whole field seem unhip to young audiences, and many traditions dwindled rapidly.\n\nPolish dance music, especially the mazurka and polonaise, were popularized by Frédéric Chopin, and they soon spread across Europe and elsewhere. These are triple time dances, while five-beat forms are more common in the northeast and duple-time dances like the krakowiak come from the south. The polonaise comes from the French word for \"Polish\" to identify its origin among the Polish aristocracy and nobility, who had adapted the dance from a slower walking dance called \"chodzony\". The polonaise then re-entered the lower-class musical life, and became an integral part of Polish music.\n\nPolish literature is the literary tradition of Poland. Most Polish literature has been written in the Polish language, though other languages, used in Poland over the centuries, have also contributed to Polish literary traditions, including Latin, German, Yiddish, Ruthenian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Hungarian, Slovak, Czech, Lithuanian, and Esperanto.\n\nAlmost nothing remains of Polish literature prior to the country's Christianization in 966. Poland's pagan inhabitants certainly possessed an oral literature extending to Slavic songs, legends and beliefs, but early Christian writers did not deem it worthy of mention in the obligatory Latin, and so it has perished.\n\nThe first recorded sentence in the Polish language reads: \"Day ut ia pobrusa, a ti poziwai\" (\"Let me grind, and you take a rest\") – a paraphrase of the Latin \"Sine, ut ego etiam molam.\" The work, in which this phrase appeared, reflects the culture of early Poland. The sentence was written within the Latin language chronicle \"Liber fundationis\" from between 1269 and 1273, a history of the Cistercian monastery in Henryków, Silesia. It was recorded by an abbot known simply as Piotr (Peter), referring to an event almost a hundred years earlier. The sentence was supposedly uttered by a Bohemian settler, Bogwal (\"Bogwalus Boemus\"), a subject of Bolesław the Tall, expressing compassion for his own wife who \"very often stood grinding by the quern-stone.\" Most notable early medieval Polish works in Latin and the Old Polish language include the oldest extant manuscript of fine prose in the Polish language entitled the \"Holy Cross Sermons\", as well as the earliest Polish-language \"Bible of Queen Zofia\" and the \"Chronicle of Janko of Czarnków\" from the 14th century, not to mention the \"Puławy Psalter\".\n\nIn the early 1470s, one of the first printing houses in Poland was set up by Kasper Straube in Kraków (see: spread of the printing press). In 1475 Kasper Elyan of Glogau (Głogów) set up a printing shop in Breslau (Wrocław), Silesia. Twenty years later, the first Cyrillic printing house was founded at Kraków by Schweipolt Fiol for Eastern Orthodox Church hierarchs. The most notable texts produced in that period include \"Saint Florian's Breviary,\" printed partially in Polish in the late 14th century; \"Statua synodalia Wratislaviensia\" (1475): a printed collection of Polish and Latin prayers; as well as Jan Długosz's \"Chronicle\" from the 15th century and his \"Catalogus archiepiscoporum Gnesnensium\".\n\nWith the advent of the Renaissance, the Polish language was finally accepted in Poland on an equal footing with Latin. Polish art and culture flourished under the Jagiellonian Dynasty, and many foreign poets and writers settled in Poland, bringing new literary trends with them. These writers included Kallimach (Filippo Buonaccorsi) and Conrad Celtis. Mikołaj Rej and Jan Kochanowski laid the foundations for the Polish literary language and modern Polish grammar. The first book written entirely in the Polish language appeared in this period: a prayer-book by Biernat of Lublin (ca. 1465 – after 1529), \"Raj duszny\" (\"Hortulus Animae\", Eden of the Soul), printed in Kraków in 1513 at one of Poland's first printing establishments, operated by Florian Ungler (originally from Bavaria).\n\nMany Polish writers studied abroad and at the Kraków Academy (now Jagiellonian University), which became a melting pot for new ideas and currents. In this period (as she had had earlier, and would also have in the future), Poland had notable philosophers, including Nicolaus Copernicus, Sebastian Petrycy, Andrzej Frycz Modrzewski, Wawrzyniec Grzymała Goślicki, Jan Jonston (a Briton), Jan Amos Komensky (a Czech), and Stanisław Leszczyński (a Polish king).\n\nAnother notable literary figure from this period is Piotr Skarga (1536–1612), a Polish Jesuit, preacher, hagiographer, polemicist, and leading figure of the Counter-Reformation in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. His greatest works include \"The Lives of the Saints\" (\"Żywoty świętych\", 1579), which was for several centuries one of the most popular books in the Polish language and the \"Sejm Sermons\" (\"Kazania Sejmowe\", 1597), a political treatise, which became popular in the second half of the 19th century, when Skarga was seen as the \"patriotic seer\" who predicted the partitions of Poland.\n\nIn 1488 the world's first literary society, the \"Sodalitas Litterarum Vistulana\" (the Vistula Literary Society) was founded in Kraków. Notable members included Conrad Celtes, Albert Brudzewski, Filip Callimachus, and Laurentius Corvinus.\n\nPolish Baroque literature (1620–1764) was influenced by the popularization of Jesuit secondary schools, which offered an education based on Latin classics as part of a preparation for a career in politics. The study of poetry required practical skill in writing both Latin and Polish poems, and radically increased the numbers of poets and versifiers countrywide. Some exceptional writers grew up as well in the soil of humanistic education: Piotr Kochanowski (1566–1620) produced a translation of Torquato Tasso's \"Jerusalem Delivered\"; poet laureate Maciej Kazimierz Sarbiewski became known throughout Europe, for his Latin writings, as \"Horatius christianus\" (\"the Christian Horace\"); Jan Andrzej Morsztyn (1621–1693), epicurean courtier and diplomat, extolled in his sophisticated poems the value of earthly delights; and Wacław Potocki (1621–96), the most productive writer of the Polish Baroque, united typical Polish \"szlachta\" (nobility) views with deeper reflections and existential experiences. \n\nOther notable Polish poets and prose writers of the period included:\n\nThe period of Polish Enlightenment began in the 1730s–40s and peaked in the second half of the 18th century during the reign of Poland's last king, Stanisław August Poniatowski. It went into sharp decline with the Third and final Partition of Poland (1795), followed by political, cultural and economic destruction of the country, and leading to the Great Emigration of Polish elites. The Enlightenment ended around 1822, and was replaced by Polish Romanticism at home and abroad. The crowning achievements of Polish Enlightenment include the adoption of the Constitution of 3 May 1791, Europe's oldest written constitution as well as the creation of the Commission of National Education, the world's first ministry of education.\n\nOne of the leading Polish Enlightenment poets was Ignacy Krasicki (1735–1801), known as \"the Prince of Poets\" and Poland's La Fontaine, author of \"Fables and Parables\" as well as the first Polish novel called \"The Adventures of Mr. Nicholas Wisdom\" (\"Mikołaja Doświadczyńskiego przypadki\"); he was also a playwright, journalist, encyclopedist and translator from French and Greek. Another prominent writer of the period was Jan Potocki (1761–1815), a Polish nobleman, Egyptologist, linguist, and adventurer, whose travel memoirs made him legendary in his homeland. Outside Poland he is known chiefly for his novel, \"The Manuscript Found in Saragossa,\" which has drawn comparisons to such celebrated works as the \"Decameron\" and \"the Arabian Nights\".\n\nDue to the three successive Partitions carried out by three adjacent empires—ending the existence of the sovereign Polish state in 1795—Polish Romanticism, unlike Romanticism elsewhere in Europe, was largely a movement for independence from foreign occupation, and expressed the ideals and traditional way of life of the Polish people. The period of Romanticism in Poland ended with the Russian Empire's suppression of the January 1863 Uprising, culminating in public executions and deportations to Siberia.\n\nThe literature of Polish Romanticism falls into two distinct sub-periods, each ended by an insurgency: the first, circa 1820–30, ending with the November 1830 Uprising; and the second, 1830–64, giving rise to Polish Positivism. In the first Romantic sub-period, Polish Romantics were heavily influenced by other European Romantics: their work featured emotionalism and imagination, folklore, and country life, in addition to the aspiration for independence. The sub-period's most famous writers were Adam Mickiewicz, Seweryn Goszczyński, Tomasz Zan, and Maurycy Mochnacki.\n\nIn the second Romantic sub-period, after the November 1830 Uprising, many Polish Romantics worked abroad, driven from Poland by the occupying powers. Their work became dominated by the aspiration to regain their country's lost sovereignty. Elements of mysticism became more prominent. Also, the concept of the Three Bards (\"trzej wieszcze\") developed. The \"wieszcz\" functioned as spiritual leader to the suppressed people. The most notable poet of the Three Bards, so recognized in both Polish Romantic sub-periods, was Adam Mickiewicz. The other two national bards were Juliusz Słowacki and Zygmunt Krasiński.\n\nIn the wake of the failed January 1863 Uprising against Russian occupation, a new period of thought and literature, Polish \"Positivism\", proceeded to advocate level-headedness, skepticism, the exercise of reason, and \"organic work\". \"Positivist\" writers argued for the establishment of equal rights for all members of society; for the assimilation of Poland's Jewish minority; and for defense of western Poland's population, in the German-occupied part of Poland, against the German \"Kulturkampf\" and the displacement of the Polish populace by German colonization. Writers such as Bolesław Prus sought to educate the public about a constructive patriotism that would enable Polish society to function as a fully integrated \"social organism,\" regardless of external circumstances. Another influential Polish novelist active in that period was Henryk Sienkiewicz who received the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1905. The Positivist period lasted until the turn of the 20th century and the advent of the Young Poland movement.\n\nThe modernist period known as the Young Poland movement in visual arts, literature and music, came into being around 1890, and concluded with the Poland's return to independence (1918). The period was based on two concepts. Its early stage was characterized by a strong aesthetic opposition to the ideals of its own predecessor (promoting \"organic work\" in the face of foreign occupation). Artists following this early philosophy of Young Poland believed in decadence, symbolism, conflict between human values and civilization, and the existence of art for art's sake. Prominent authors who followed this trend included Joseph Conrad, Kazimierz Przerwa-Tetmajer, Stanisław Przybyszewski and Jan Kasprowicz.\n\nLiterature of the Second Polish Republic (1918–1939) encompasses a short, though exceptionally dynamic period in Polish literary consciousness. The socio-political reality has changed radically with Poland's return to independence. In large part, derivative of these changes was the collective and unobstructed development of programs for artists and writers. New avant-garde trends had emerged. The period, spanning just twenty years, was full of notable individualities who saw themselves as exponents of changing European civilization, including Tuwim, Witkacy, Gombrowicz, Miłosz, Dąbrowska and Nałkowska (PAL).\n\nMuch of Polish literature written during the occupation of Poland appeared in print only after the end of World War II, including books by Nałkowska, Rudnicki, Borowski and others. The Soviet takeover of the country did not discourage émigrés and exiles from returning, especially before the advent of Stalinism. Indeed, many writers attempted to recreate the Polish literary scene, often with a touch of nostalgia for the prewar reality, including Jerzy Andrzejewski, author of \"Ashes and Diamonds\", describing the political and moral dilemmas associated with the anti-communist resistance in Poland. His novel was adapted into film a decade later by Wajda. The new emerging prose writers such as Stanisław Dygat and Stefan Kisielewski approached the catastrophe of war from their own perspective. Kazimierz Wyka coined a term \"borderline novel\" for documentary fiction.\n\nIn the second half of the 20th century a number of Polish writers and poets achieved international recognition including Stanisław Lem, Czesław Miłosz (Nobel Prize in Literature, 1980), Zbigniew Herbert, Sławomir Mrożek, Wisława Szymborska (Nobel Prize in Literature, 1996), Jerzy Kosiński, Adam Zagajewski, Andrzej Sapkowski, and Olga Tokarczuk.\n\nAt present, the Polish theatre actor possibly best-known outside the country is Andrzej Seweryn, who in the years 1984–1988 was a member of the international group formed by Peter Brook to work on the staging of the Mahabharata, and since 1993 has been linked with the Comédie Française. The most revered actor of the second half of the twentieth century in Poland is generally considered to be Tadeusz Łomnicki, who died in 1992 of a heart attack while rehearsing King Lear.\n\nDuring the second half of the nineties, there appeared in Polish dramatic theatre a new generation of young directors, who have attempted to create productions relevant to the experience and problems of a thirty-something generation brought up surrounded by mass culture, habituated to a fast-moving lifestyle, but at the same time ever more lost in the world of consumer capitalism. There is no strict division in Poland between theatre and film directors and actors, therefore many stage artists are known to theatre goers from films of Andrzej Wajda, for example: Wojciech Pszoniak, Daniel Olbrychski, Krystyna Janda, Jerzy Radziwiłowicz, and from films of Krzysztof Kieślowski. Notable actors from Poland include Jerzy Stuhr, Janusz Gajos, Jerzy Skolimowski and Michał Żebrowski. Polish actors and actresses that achieved great success overseas, mostly in Hollywood, include Bella Darvi, Pola Negri, Ross Martin, Ingrid Pitt, Ned Glass, Lee Strasberg, Izabella Scorupco, Paul Wesley and John Bluthal.\n\nNotable Hollywood American actors and actresses of Polish descent include David Arquette, Caroll Baker (born Karolina Piekarski), Christine Baranski, Kristen Bell, Maria Bello, Jack Benny, Charles Bronson, Mayim Bialik, Cate Blanchett, Alex Borstein, David Burtka, Steve Carell, Anna Chlumsky, Jennifer Connelly, Jesse Eisenberg, Estelle Getty, Scarlett Johansson, Harvey Keitel, John Krasinski, Lisa Kudrow, Ben Stiller, Carole Landis, Téa Leoni, Paul Newman, Eli Wallach, Jared Padalecki, Gwyneth Paltrow, Robert Prosky, Maggie Q, William Shatner, Sarah Silverman, Leelee Sobieski, Loretta Swit and others.\n\nPoles have traditionally adhered to the Christian faith, with the majority belonging to the Roman Catholic Church, with 87.5% of Poles in 2011 identifying as Roman Catholic. The remaining part of the population consists mainly of Protestants (especially Lutherans), Orthodox Christians, Jehovah's Witnesses, those irreligious, and Judaism (mostly from the Jewish populations in Poland who have lived there prior to World War II). In addition, many Polish Tatars are Sunni Muslims. Roman Catholics live all over the country, while Orthodox Christians can be found mostly in north-east, in the area of Białystok, and Protestants (mainly Lutherans) in Cieszyn Silesia and Warmia-Masuria. A growing Jewish population exists in major cities, especially in Warsaw, Kraków and Wrocław. Over two million Jews of Polish origin reside in the United States, Brazil, and Israel. \n\nAccording to Poland's Constitution freedom of religion is ensured to everyone. It also allows for national and ethnic minorities to have the right to establish educational and cultural institutions, institutions designed to protect religious identity, as well as to participate in the resolution of matters connected with their cultural identity.\n\nReligious organizations in the Republic of Poland can register their institution with the Ministry of Interior and Administration creating a record of churches and other religious organizations who operate under separate Polish laws. This registration is not necessary; however, it is beneficial when it comes to serving the freedom of religious practice laws.\n\nSlavic Native Faith (\"Rodzimowiercy\") groups, registered with the Polish authorities in 1995, are the Native Polish Church (\"Rodzimy Kościół Polski\"), which represents a pagan tradition going back to Władysław Kołodziej's 1921 Holy Circle of Worshippers of Światowid (\"Święte Koło Czcicieli Światowida\"), and the Polish Slavic Church (\"Polski Kościół Słowiański\"). There is also the Native Faith Association (\"Zrzeszenie Rodzimej Wiary\", \"ZRW\"), founded in 1996.\n\nAmong exonyms for \"Pole\", not native to the Polish people or language, is лях (\"lyakh\"), used in East Slavic languages. Today the word \"Lachy\" (\"Poles\") is used in Belarusian, Ukrainian (but now considered offensive and replaced by the neutral поляк, \"polyak\"), and Russian. Foreign exonyms also include: Lithuanian \"Lenkai\"; Hungarian \"Lengyelek\"; Turkish \"Leh\"; \"Lehastan\"; and (\"Lahestān\").\n\nŁęczycanie live between Greater Poland and Mazovia, and are an intermediate group, originally closer to Greater Poles but with significant Mazur influences. Sieradzanie on the other hand, are surrounded by Greater Poland, Lesser Poland and Silesia, and have been under strong influences of all three provinces. They lost much of their original distinctness. The main city in this region is Łódź, but it originated during the Industrial Revolution, being just a small town before that.\n\nGreater Poles (Wielkopolanie) inhabit more or less the original territory of the tribe of Polans (from which the names Poland and Poles are derived), as well as other areas where Wielkopolanie and their dialect expanded throughout history. Greater Poland is where the Polish statehood emerged during the 9th and 10th centuries. With places such as Gniezno, Giecz and Ostrów Lednicki, it is the oldest province of Poland. Poznań is its main city. We can distinguish smaller ethnographic subdivisions among Greater Poles, for example the Pałuczanie, Biskupianie (near Krobia), Bambrzy and Hanobrzy (descended from Polonized German settlers from the areas of Bamberg and Hanover), Kaliszacy, Wieleń Mazurs, Szamotulanie, Gostynianie, and others. Due to past migrations and shifting borders of historical regions, also two Silesian ethnographic groups live in the territory of Wielkopolska – Hazacy, who inhabit the area of Rawicz; and Chwalimiacy, who live around Chwalim, Nowe Kramsko and Stare Kramsko. \n\nSome linguists and ethnographers counted Cuiavians as a subdivision of Greater Poles, but most recognize their distinct culture and identity. They inhabit the areas from Lake Gopło in the south to Noteć River in the north-west, and to Vistula River in the north-east. Toruń, listed on the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites since 1997, is located on the border between Kujawy, Chełmno Land and Dobrzyń Land. Other important cities include Bydgoszcz, Włocławek and Inowrocław.\n\nMałopolanie (Southern Poles) can be divided into several major subgroups – Krakowiacy (in the historical Land of Kraków), Lasowiacy, Sandomirians, Górale (Gorals, Polish Highlanders), Lachy, Posaniacy, Vilamovians, Halcnovians, Lubliniacy and inhabitants of Podkarpacie (Subcarpathia), such as Dolinianie, Rzeszowiacy, Polish Uplanders or Deaf Germans. Krakowiacy live to the north of Gorals, to the east of Silesians, to the west of Sandomirians, in the north they extend as far as Częstochowa and Kielce. This group can be further subdivided into smaller ethnographic regions. \n\nAmong Lesser Poles, especially strongly differentiated are the Gorals, who can be further divided into Beskid Gorals, Podhalanie, Kliszczacy, Spiszacy, Oravians, and several smaller groups. In the east, Lesser Polish Gorals have Ruthenian-speaking Gorals (Boykos, Lemkos, Hutsuls) and Rusyns as their neighbours. There is overlap with Slovak-speaking Gorals in the south. Sandomirians extend in the north as far as Skaryszew and Iłża, in the west beyond Chęciny. Lubliniacy live to the east of Sandomirians, around Lublin, Chełm, Zamość, Tomaszów Lubelski, Janów Lubelski and Biłgoraj.\n\nMazurs (Masovians) consist of proper Mazurs, known also as Central Mazurs, who live from the area between Sierpc and Płock, up to the lower Wieprz River. Between Central Mazurs and Podlasie is the homeland of Eastern Mazurs, and in southern parts of Warmia-Masuria – the homeland of Lutheran, Prussian Mazurs, descended from Central Mazurs who settled there in the 14th, 15th and 16th centuries, and assimilated remnants of Baltic-speaking Old Prussian population. Another Medieval expansion of Mazurs, to the east, into former Yotvingian (ethnically West Baltic) territories, led to the emergence of Sudovian Poles and of Podlasie Mazurs (in the areas around Węgrów, Siedlce, Puławy, Łuków, Sokołów Podlaski, Włodawa, as far as Biebrza River). Another group descended from a mix of Poles (mostly Mazurs) and West Balts are the Kurpie, who live primarily in Puszcza Zielona and Puszcza Biała (the Green Forest and the White Forest). Yet another subdivision of Mazurs, which developed a very rich folk culture thanks to having special privileges and prosperity, are Łowiczanie (around Łowicz). Another group are Poborzanie in the areas of Mława and Zawkrze. \n\nThe capital of Poland, Warsaw, is located in the land of Central Mazurs. However, as any large city it has always been a melting pot of people from all regions of Poland and foreigners from abroad. It is home to the largest Jewish community in Poland, as well as the cultural centre of Polish Karaims. Citizens of Warsaw are called Varsovians. In the Early Middle Ages, Płock was the main city in Mazovia. Along the eastern border of Poland, between Podlasie and Lubelszczyzna, we can find some people who identify as Poleshuks. In Suwalszczyzna and Podlasie, we can find dispersed communities of Polish Tatars and Starovers, as well as settlements of Lithuanian and Belarusian minorities.\n\nGroups intermediate between Greater Poles and Mazurs (but closer to Greater Poles), are Chełmniacy and Dobrzyniacy (who live in the lands of Chełmno and Dobrzyń), as well as Lubawiacy (in the land of Lubawa). Another intermediate group, but closer to Mazurs, are Catholic Warmiaks in the East Prussian region of Warmia. From the Early Middle Ages onwards, Pomerania was under strong Polish (especially Greater Polish and Cuiavian) influences. From the mixture of Kashubians and Greater Poles, emerged an ethnographic group called Borowiacy Tucholscy, who live in the Tuchola Forest region, between Tuchola, Koronowo, Świecie and Starogard. Borowiacy are intermediary, whereas another mixed group – Krajniacy – have a mostly Greater Polish character, with relatively minor Kashubian influences. They live in the region of Krajna. Two other ethnographic group in Northern Poland are Powiślanie (whose homelands are the areas around Sztum, Kwidzyń and Malbork) and .\n\nŻuławy Wiślane in North Poland used to be the homeland of Mennonites, who are considered to be either Dutch, German, or a group on their own.\n\nEarly Medieval Pomeranians used to inhabit the entire land located to the north of Polans, between Noteć and the Baltic Sea. In the west, Pomeranians extended perhaps up to Usedom. In the east, they extended as far as the Vistula Lagoon, and their eastern neighbours were Baltic-speaking Prussians. Krynica Morska was the easternmost Slavic-speaking village on the Baltic coast, but the area of Truso (today Elbląg) to the south was ethnically Old Prussian. Most of Pomeranians became Germanized throughout history. Only Eastern Pomeranians preserved their Slavic ethnicity, and are commonly known as Kashubians today. Kashubians who were under Polish rule during the 16th–18th centuries remained Roman Catholic, while those who lived in Brandenburg-Prussia in the 1700s, became Lutherans following the Protestant Reformation. \n\nKashubians can be divided into many subdivisions, such as the Slovincians. From the Early Middle Ages onwards, Pomerania was under strong Polish (especially Greater Polish and Cuiavian) influences, which led to the emergence of several intermediary ethnographic groups. Descended mainly from Greater Polish and Cuiavian settlers who mixed with Kashubians, are Kociewiacy in the region of Kociewie, located between Starogard Pomorski, Tczew, Gniew, Świecie and up to the outskirts of Gdańsk in the north. The main city in Eastern Pomerania has always been Gdańsk, located on the border between three regions: Kashubia to the west, Kociewie to the south, Prussia to the east.\n\nIn the Early Middle Ages, Silesia was inhabited by several Lechitic tribes, known from written sources under their Latinised names. The most significant tribe (which ultimately gave its name to the region) were the Sleenzane (Slenzans; Ślężanie) who lived in areas near modern Wrocław and along the Ślęza river, as well as near mount Ślęża. The Opolini (Opolans; Opolanie) lived in lands near modern Opole. The Dadodesani or Dedosize (Dyadosans; Dziadoszanie) lived in areas near modern Głogów. The Golensizi (Golensizians; Golęszyce) dwelled near modern Racibórz, Cieszyn and Opawa. The Lupiglaa (Głubczyce) probably lived on the Głubczyce Plateau, near Głubczyce. The Trebouane (Tryebovians; Trzebowianie), mentioned by the \"Prague Document\" (which describes the situation as of year 973 or earlier), occupied areas near modern Legnica. The Poborane (Bobrans; Bobrzanie) – mentioned by the same document – lived along the lower and middle course of the Bóbr river. The Psyovians (Psouane; Pszowianie) lived near Pszów, to the east of the Opolans and to the west of Kraków. Along the borderland between Lower Silesia and Lusatia, lived tribes related to modern Sorbs. \n\nAt the turn of the 10th and 11th centuries (), the total population of Silesia is estimated as around 250,000 people. By the 2nd half of the 12th century (c. AD 1150–1200) the population increased to 330,000, still in vast majority Slavic-speakers. Following the German Ostsiedlung (c. AD 1350–1400), the population of Lower Silesia was around 2/3 Slavic and 1/3 German (according to estimates by Kokot, Karol Maleczynski and Tomasz Kamusella) while Upper Silesia remained 80% ethnically Polish, with the remaining 20% split mainly between Germans and Czechs. During the following centuries cultural Germanization gradually shifted the ethnic structure of Silesia, so that by the 20th century nearly all of Lower Silesia had a German-speaking majority. But Upper Silesia remained majority Polish-speaking. There have also been Moravian and Czech communities. \n\nPolish Silesians can be divided into many smaller groups, such as Cieszyn Vlachs, Lachians, Silesian Gorals, Opolans and others. The oldest Polish town in the US – Panna Maria, Texas – was established by Silesians in 1854. They speak the Texas Silesian dialect of Polish.\n\nPoles from the former eastern territories of Poland and other areas of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. From the 14th century onwards, the expansion of Polish (mostly Mazur from Masovia, but also Greater Polish and other) settlers towards the north-east, as well as Polonization of local inhabitants, led to the emergence of Wilniuki (North-East Kresowiacy) in the Grodno Region and Vilno Region (Wileńszczyzna), which encompasses the borderlands of northern Belarus, southern Lithuania and southern Latvia (former Inflanty Voivodeship, including Dyneburg and Ilūkste). At the same time, the expansion of Polish settlers (mostly Lesser Poles and Mazurs) towards the south-east, as well as Polonization of local inhabitants, led to the emergence of South-East Kresowiacy in Halychna, Red Ruthenia (with its main city – Lvov), Volhynia and Podolia.\nTraditional national and ethnic minorities within the modern borders of Poland include the Germans, Jews, Ukrainians, Belarusians, Lithuanians, Czechs (including Polonized descendants of the Bohemian Brethren refugees), Slovaks, Romani people, Dutch people (Olędrzy, most of whom were Polonized), Armenians (there were at least four waves of Armenian immigration to Poland, the earliest of which took place in the 11th century), Vlachs (Romance-speaking shepherds) and Scots (most of Scots in Poland have been Polonized as well). Historically, there were also smaller communities of Hungarians, Russians, Walloons, French, Italians and others.\n\nPrior to World War II, a third of Poland's population was composed of ethnic minorities. Following the war, however, Poland's minorities were mostly gone, due to the 1945 revision of borders, and the Holocaust. Most notably, the population of Jews in Poland, which formed the largest Jewish community in pre-war Europe at about 3 million people, was almost completely annihilated by 1945.\n\n"}
{"id": "15328212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15328212", "title": "Porphyrios (Bairaktaris) of Kafsokalivia", "text": "Porphyrios (Bairaktaris) of Kafsokalivia\n\nSaint Porphyrios (Bairaktaris) the Kapsokalyvite (7 February 1906 – 2 December 1991) was an Athonite hieromonk known for his gifts of spiritual discernment, a type of clairvoyance which he sometimes called \"spiritual television.\"\n\nHe was born February 7 in the little village of St. John Karystia, in the province of Evia. His parents, Leonidas and Eleni Bairaktaris (daughter of Antonios Lambrou), baptized him Evangelos. He was fourth out of five siblings.\n\nHe was tonsured a monk at the age of fourteen or fifteen with the monastic name Nikitas. He served in the Athonite skete of Kafsokalyvia, in the Cell of St. George, under two spiritual fathers: Fr. Panteimon and Fr. Ionnakios. Forced by pleurisy to depart the Holy Mountain, he returned to his birthplace, where he was unexpectedly elevated to the priesthood at the age of 21 by Porphyrios III, Archbishop of Mount Sinai and Raithu.\n\nWith the outbreak of World War II he became a hospital chaplain in Athens, in which post he continued for three decades (1940–1970). His later years were devoted to the construction of the Holy Convent of the Transfiguration of the Savior.\n\nAfter 1984 he returned to Mount Athos, occupying the same cell which he had earlier in life been forced to abandon. Through his role as spiritual father, Elder Porphyrios became known to an ever-wider circle of Orthodox followers. Several compilations of stories and sayings attributed to him have been published.\n\nHis sainthood was declared by the synod of the Ecumenical Patriarchate on November 27, 2013. In 2017 the holy synod of the Romanian Orthodox Church formally approved the inclusion of St. Porphyrios the Kavoskalyvite into the Church’s calendar on December 2 as well, including his troparion, kontakion, Synaxarion, and icon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32190390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32190390", "title": "Robert Pike (settler)", "text": "Robert Pike (settler)\n\nRobert Pike (16161706) was an opponent of the Salem witchcraft prosecutions of 1692. He was also involved in two other notable, public controversies prior to 1692. The first was his open criticism of the persecution of the Quakers, for which he was arraigned by the Massachusetts General Court in 1653. Years later, he became embroiled in a long feud with the pastor of Salisbury, the Reverend John Wheelwright, who excommunicated him in 1675 and was later obliged to reinstate him.\n\nRobert Pike was probably born in Landford, Wiltshire, England about 1616. He came to the Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1635 with his father, John Pike (1572–1654) and four siblings. His mother Dorothy Day had died several years before. They first settled in Newbury. Within a few years Robert Pike moved to the east side of the Merrimack River and became one of the founders and first land owners of Salisbury (originally called Colchester), where he remained the rest of his life.\n\nPike married Sarah Sanders, of Salisbury, on 3 April 1641. They raised eight children before her death in 1679. While nothing is known about his formal education in England, it is clear that he was well-educated, for he wrote with a flowing hand and could formulate well-reasoned arguments in his own defence and the defence of others. His brother, John Pike (1613–1689), also appears to have been well-educated prior to their arrival in 1635.\n\nAs one of the leading men of the new settlement that became Salisbury, Pike took on numerous civic and military duties and held several offices. In 1641, his first appointment was as a Fence Viewer, which involved the settling of disputes about property boundaries, \"livestock proof\" fences, and resolving disputes about fence repairs. In May 1644, he was appointed by the General Court, along with two others, with the power \"to end small causes in Salisbury\". In modern terms, this is roughly equivalent to a justice of the peace. By 1646, Pike was the leader of the local militia and known as Lieutenant Pike, then Major Pike. Thomas Bradbury, husband of Mary Bradbury, was second in command, as an ensign. In 1648, Salisbury elected Pike to the post of Deputy to the General Court, based in Boston. He was re-elected 10 times and later served one term as magistrate. At the time of King Philip's War (1675–78) Pike served as Sergeant-Major, and was responsible for much of the area North of Boston (Maine was then a part of Massachusetts). Captain Benjamin Church reported to Sergeant-Major Pike.\n\nSmall numbers of Quakers started arriving in New England by 1656. The Puritan-dominated General Court immediately enacted laws to discourage their activities. The new laws provided for harsh punishment to anyone who professed the \"heretical opinions\" of Quakers. They even punished ship captains who knowingly carried Quakers as passengers. However, these new measures brought heated debate within the General Court, as their passage was far from unanimous. The Deputies of the General Court, including Robert Pike, who represented the outlying areas, were much more likely to be sensitive to the issue of religious freedom and probably voted against the new laws. Nonetheless, numerous Quaker missionaries were punished by public whippings, banishment, and the threat of death if they returned to Massachusetts Bay Colony. Between 1659 and 1661, five Quakers, all of whom had returned to Boston to continue preaching publicly, were hanged.\n\nIn the winter of 1662, three Quaker women arrived in Dover, New Hampshire, to preach and soon after were arrested and ordered whipped. Richard Waldron, the magistrate at Dover, even went to the extreme of issuing a warrant declaring that the constables of 11 surrounding towns, including Salisbury, were to carry out public whippings of the three women. After they were transported in a cart to Salisbury, the third town of the 11, they were set free by the local authorities, which included Thomas Bradbury, Walter Barefoote, and Pike. While historians are uncertain as to some of the details, it is believed that Pike was the local constable and he deputised an eager Barefoote, who then \"misused\" his authority to free the women. In any case, over 200 years later, the Quaker poet John Greenleaf Whittier immortalised this cruel episode in his poem, \"How the Women Went from Dover\". One of the verses is engraved upon a stone memorial to Robert Pike in Salisbury Common.\n\"Cut loose these poor ones and let them go;\n\nCome what will of it, all men shall know\n\nNo warrant is good, though backed by the Crown,\n\nFor whipping women in Salisbury town!\"\nBy 1692, Robert Pike had risen to the office of Assistant to the General Court. In that role, he was directed to take depositions of both the accused and the accuser, for the immediate region around Salisbury, during the witchcraft crisis of 1692. In May, he took notes regarding the stories and accusations against Susannah Martin of neighbouring Amesbury. More depositions against her followed in June. She was tried and convicted in Boston in late June, then executed by hanging on 19 July, along with Sarah Good, Rebecca Nurse, Elizabeth Howe and Sarah Wildes.\n\nOn 26 May 1692, George Herrick brought charges, on behalf of Ann Putnam and Mary Walcott, against Mary Bradbury of Salisbury. The wife of Thomas Bradbury, she was well known and respected by Robert Pike and many others. She was convicted in her final trial of 9 September, despite several witnesses supporting her and a petition on her behalf signed by 115 townspeople. Pike prepared her sworn statement on her behalf, defending her character and good works.\n\nPrior to Mary Bradbury's conviction, Pike wrote a remarkable letter to Jonathan Corwin, one of the trial judges, in which he composed a tightly reasoned attack upon the use of spectral evidence and the testimony of the \"afflicted girls\" in general. While Pike, like all Puritans, believed witches and witchcraft existed and were the work of Satan, he was questioning the current methods of the court in determining credibility and guilt. In his letter of 9 August, Pike makes several points:\n\nIt is not known just how Pike's letter was received, since there is no written response, but with it he became one of the first of several prominent men to question the handling of the witchcraft crisis. Within a few weeks, Thomas Brattle and Samuel Willard of Boston wrote their own manuscripts, using some of the same arguments Pike had documented. By October 1692, the activity of the courts was greatly diminished, the executions had ended, and the witchcraft crisis was effectively over.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8202684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8202684", "title": "Robison Wells", "text": "Robison Wells\n\nRobison Wells (born April 1978) is an American novelist.\n\nRobison Wells, the brother of author Dan Wells, was a reluctant reader as a child. He did not become interested in writing until he was in college. He graduated from the University of Utah in 2003 with a degree in political science, emphasizing in international relations, with a minor in history, and earned an MBA in marketing at Brigham Young University in 2009. Wells lives in North Ogden, Utah, with his wife and three children. He previously lived in New Mexico, which has been the setting for four of his novels. Wells is a practicing member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.\n\nRobison Wells first began writing as part of a writing group with Dan Wells and Brandon Sanderson.\n\nWells's first three books were written for the LDS fiction market. The first, \"On Second Thought\" is a romantic comedy set in New Mexico, and the second two, \"Wake Me When It's Over\" and \"The Counterfeit\" are political thrillers.\n\nIn April 2010 it was announced that Wells had signed a 3-book young adult deal with HarperTeen. The first novel \"Variant\" is a young adult science fiction novel set in a boarding school in New Mexico. It has one sequel, \"Feedback\"; it is not a trilogy.\n\nWells's third book with HarperTeen, \"Blackout\" was announced in Publisher's Marketplace as being the first of a series, including two novels and a novella, and was released in Fall 2013. The sequel, \"Dead Zone\" was released a year later. Wells's latest book with HarperTeen is titled \"Dark Energy\".\n\nWells also indie-published a novel, \"Airships of Camelot\". It was the product of a successful Kickstarter campaign. It is described as \"alternate-history, steampunk, old West, King Arthur.\"\n\n\"Variant\" was released to much critical acclaim, receiving starred reviews from \"Publishers Weekly\" and VOYA. It also received favorable reviews from Booklist and Kirkus. \"Publishers Weekly\" also named \"Variant\" as one of their Best Books of 2011, and featured Wells as one of their \"Flying Starts\".\n\n\"Feedback\" has received mixed reviews. Kirkus referred to it as \"An absorbing read that won't let fans of the first down\", while Booklist said \"the claustrophobic tightness of the first book is replaced here by a loose series of threats that never solidify into something worth rooting against.\"\n\nIn the spring of 2007, Robison Wells began work on the Whitney Awards, an awards program for LDS fiction. He has stated that this idea came from a conversation with friend and fellow author Brandon Sanderson. The Whitney Awards are sponsored by LDStorymakers, an author's guild for LDS writers. Robison Wells served as president of the Whitney Awards Committee for three years, ending in 2010.\n\nIn 2018, Robison received the Outstanding Achievement Award from the Whitney Academy.\n\nWells has a handful of mental illnesses, and is an outspoken advocate for those with mental illness. In 2014, Wells, joined by Brandon Sanderson and Dan Wells, edited, \"Altered Perceptions\", an anthology of essays from popular YA writers about their struggles with mental illness. He also contributed to the mental illness anthology \"Life Inside My Mind\", with an essay called \"Twenty Pills.\" He writes and speaks extensively about these topics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4865709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4865709", "title": "Seven fires prophecy", "text": "Seven fires prophecy\n\nSeven fires prophecy is an Anishinaabe prophecy that marks phases, or epochs, in the life of the people on Turtle Island, a Native American name for the North American continent. The seven fires of the prophecy represent key spiritual teachings for North America, and suggest that the different colors and traditions of the human beings can come together on a basis of respect. It predates the arrival of the Europeans, and contains information for the future lives of the Anishinaabe which are still in the process of being fulfilled.\n\nOriginally, the prophecy and the Ojibwa migration story were closely linked. However, the last half the prophecy appears to apply to all peoples in contact with the Anishinaabeg. Consequently, with the growth of the Pan-Indian Movement in the 1960s and the 1970s, concepts of the Seven fires prophecy merged with other similar prophetical teaching found among Indigenous peoples of North America forming a unified environmental, political, and socio-economic voice towards Canada and the United States. The Seven fires prophecy was originally taught among the practitioners of Midewiwin.\n\nWilliam Commanda, an Algonquin elder and former chief of the Kitigàn-zìbì Anishinàbeg First Nation, was the wampum belt keeper for the seven fires prophecy. He died on August 3, 2011.\n\nOriginally, the prophecies were given by eight prophets in seven different time periods. According to oral tradition, the Mi'kmaq Nation heard the first Prophet. The remaining seven prophets appeared before and were recorded by the Anishinaabeg. A prophecy of each of these seven periods were then called a \"fire\". The teachings of the Seven fires prophecy also state that when the world has been befouled and the waters turned bitter by disrespect, human beings will have two options to choose from, materialism or spirituality. If they chose spirituality, they will survive, but if they chose materialism, it will be the end of it.\n\nIn heeding this prophecy, the Anishinaabe peoples, after receiving guarantees of the safety of their \"Fathers\" (the Abenaki peoples) and their \"allied brothers\" (Mi'kmaq) of having the Anishinaabeg move inland, away from the Atlantic coast, mass migration of the Anishinaabeg took place, proceeding to the \"First Stopping Place\" known as \"Mooniyaang\", known today as Montreal, Quebec. There, the Nation found a \"turtle-shaped island\" marked by \"miigis\" (cowrie) shells.\n\nThe Nation grew to a large number and spread up both Ottawa River and the St. Lawrence River. The second of the \"turtle-shaped island\" marked by \"miigis\" shells was at Niagara Falls.\n\nThe oral traditions of the members of Council of Three Fires say that the realization of the Second fire came about the \"Third Stopping Place\" located somewhere near what now is Detroit, Michigan. The Anishinaabeg had divided between those who went up Ottawa River and those that went up the St. Lawrence River. After leaving the area about Niagara Falls, this group proceeded to the \"Round Lake\" (Lake St. Clair) and found the third \"turtle-shaped island\" marked by \"miigis\" shells. They continued westward until arriving along the southern shores of Lake Michigan but by this time, the evidence of the \"miigis\" shells were lost, and the southern Anishinaabeg became \"lost\" both physically in their journey as well as spiritually in their journey. The southern group of Anishinaabeg disintegrated into what today are the Ojibwa, Odawa and the Potawatomi. The northern group along the Ottawa River divided into Algonquin, Nipissing and the Mississaugas, but they maintained cohesion that was not maintained by the southern group.\n\nEventually, a Potawatomi boy had a dream and pointed the southern group back towards and past the \"Round Lake\". The southern group rejoined not as a single Anishinaabe peoplehood but rather as a unified alliance called Council of Three Fires. Travelling east and north, and then west, the Council crossed a series of small islands known as \"the stepping stones\" until they arrived onto Manitoulin island, described as the \"Fourth Stopping Place\" of the \"turtle-shaped island\" marked by \"miigis\" shell. There on the island, the Council met up with the Mississaugas, who then spiritually fully re-aligned the formerly lost southern group with the northern group who were never lost. The Odawa facilitated the \"healing\" and the island became synonymous as the \"Odawa's Island\" in the Anishinaabe language.\n\nFrom the cultural center on Manitoulin Island, the Ojibwe moved to the area about Sault Ste. Marie, where there was the next \"turtle-shaped island\" marked by \"miigis\" shell. \"Baawating\" or \"The Rapids\" of the Saint Marys River became the \"Fifth Stopping Place\" of the Ojibwe. From this spot, the Ojibwe and the rapids became synonymous with each other, with the Ojibwe known by the Dakota peoples as \"Iyo-ḣaḣatoŋwaŋ\" (\"cascading-waterfalls people\") and later by the French as \"Saulteurs\" (\"cascaders\") and Saulteaux (\"cascades\"). From here, the Ojibwe moved west, dividing into two groups, each travelling along the shores of Lake Superior, searching for the \"land where food grows upon the waters\".\n\nThe Fourth fire prophecy was delivered by a pair of prophets. The first prophets said,\n\nThe other prophet said,\n\nWhile at the \"Fifth Stopping Place\", the light-skinned people in big wooden boats, known as the French arrived. Consequently, the French were called \"Wemitigoozhii\" (\"wooden-boat people\"). Though the French Crown was interested in colonialism, as far as the Anishinaabeg were concerned, the French appeared only interested in commerce and trade through mercantilism. Together with the French, the Anishinaabeg formed trade alliances, which not only extended French colonial powers into the heart of North America, but strengthened the political and military might of the Anishinaabeg.\n\nAfter the French came the \"Zhaaganaash\" (\"Off-shore ones\") of Great Britain. But out of the \"Zhaaganaash\" came the \"Gichi-mookomaan\" (\"Big-knives\")—the Virginians (i.e. Americans).\n\nThe Seventh Prophet that came to the people long ago was said to be different from the other prophets. This prophet was described as \"young and had a strange light in his eyes\" and said:\n\n"}
{"id": "50872118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50872118", "title": "William B. Derrick", "text": "William B. Derrick\n\nWilliam B. Derrick (July 27, 1843 – April 15, 1913) was an African Methodist Episcopal (AME) bishop and missionary. He worked as a seaman early in his life and served in the Union Navy during the US Civil War. After the war, he joined the AME church and became involved in church leadership and missionary activities. He became a bishop of the church in 1896. He was also involved in Republican politics and civil rights.\n\nWilliam B. Derrick was born on the Island of Antigua in the British West Indies July 27, 1843. His father, Thomas J. Derrick was from a large planter family on the island. He attended a public school at Gracefield run by Moravians from 1848 to 1856. He then went to a select private high school for three years. He trained to become a blacksmith. After this, he went to sea. He enlisted as a sailor from 1861 to 1864. and served on the Minnesota, the flagship of the North Atlantic Squadron, during the battle of the Merrimac and the Monitor. In his naval records he was described as being five feet five inches and having a tattoo of \"W. B. D.\" on his right forearm.\n\nShortly after his service, he married Mary E. White, daughter of Edwin White. Mary died after a short marriage and he remarried Lillian M. Lillian around 1882 died in 1907. He remarried again in 1909 to Clara E. Henderson Jones.\n\nIn 1866, he joined the AME church under John M. Brown who licensed him to preach and act as missionary agent, offices which he held until 1867. Bishop Daniel A. Payne appointed Derrick to Mt. Pisgah Chapel in Washington DC in 1867. In 1868, he was ordained deacon. He was then elected elder and ordained and made presiding elder of the Staunton church and district. He was elected presiding elder, pastor, and conference secretary at every Virginia Conference in the 1870s, and took part in general AME conferences in Nashville in 1872, Atlanta in 1876 and Baltimore in 1884. He was involved in a controversy in Virginia state politics in 1879 when he supported paying the state debt against others who favored readjusting the debts. He found himself on the losing end and resigned his charge in Virginia, touring the West Indies with his wife to return to ministry, then in New York State. He became presiding elder over a large district including New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and New England. In 1888 he was elected missionary secretary.\n\nIn 1889, AME district bishop Benjamin Tucker Tanner was focused on missionary work in Haiti. In August, it was found that the mission treasury was empty. Derrick, as mission secretary was responsible and Payne demanded of Derrick what had happened to the funds. Derrick had been giving money to the Haitian mission in cash, which was not in itself a cause of trouble, but may have led to misuse of the funds. Tanner was hesitant to settle the dispute, but Derrick improved his place in the view of the AME leaders over the next few years and the pair reconciled.\n\nIn 1896 he was elected bishop, and served as bishop in the eighth, first, third, and fifteenth Episcopal districts. As bishop, Derrick played an important role in missionary activities in the church. In the 1900s, Derrick traveled to widely, and worked to expand the AME church in Africa.\n\nOutside of the church, Derrick was very active in politics. In June 1884 he was nominated a presidential elector-at-large for the Republican State Committees with the support of Cornelius Van Cott, but he declined after questions arose to his citizenship, although he had taken an oath and became a citizen when he enlisted in the navy 23 years earlier. Derrick purchased interest in the New York Globe from George Parker in November 1884 with a goal of making it a more thoroughly Republican paper. Derrick and co-editor T. Thomas Fortune disagreed over the direction of the paper and the paper entered default and was later resurrected by Fortune.\n\nAt the end of the century, Derrick was especially active in civil rights. Derrick was a member of the Afro-American Council a part of its organization by Fortune in 1897 in Chicago. Derrick in New York and Benjamin W. Arnett in Ohio were leaders of the AME Republicans in the late 1890s and early 1900s. Derrick supported licensed female preachers but not female ordained ministers. In September 1892, Derrick gave a speech at a meeting of Wong Chin Foo's Chinese Equal Rights League opposing the Geary Act.\n\nDerrick was proud of his military service and supported numerous military and patriot causes. He was prominent among those who urged retaliation for the sinking of the Maine in 1898 which in part led to the Spanish–American War. Derrick was selected to deliver a sermon and prayer prior to the dedicatory address at the 1893 Grand Army of the Republic reunion at the dedication of the statue of Victory at the New York State monument at the Gettysburg Battlefield.\n\nHis sermons were reported in various newspapers. He was given a D. D. from Wilberforce University in 1885. He was friends with Bishop Richard H. Cain and served as executor of his will. He worked closely with James G. Blaine, Benjamin Harrison, and William McKinley. Derrick frequently traveled to England and was a popular speaker there.\n\nAlong with the Globe, at one point Derrick owned the journal, the West Indian Abroad. Derrick was affiliated with the Odd Fellows, Masons, Good Samaritans, and a trustee of Wilberforce University. He was a confidant and supporter of Booker T. Washington. He remained close to Antiguans in New York and in the West Indies throughout his life.\n\nDerrick died April 15, 1913 in Flushing, New York.\n"}
{"id": "17235421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17235421", "title": "Yngve Larsson", "text": "Yngve Larsson\n\nGustaf Richard \"Yngve\" Larsson (; born December 13, 1881 in Sundsvall, died December 16, 1977 in Stockholm) was a Swedish Ph.D., Municipal commissioner (\"Borgarråd\"), Member of Parliament and statesman.\n\nHe was a marked modernist and was for 22 years a leading vice Mayor of Stockholm, in charge of urban development, and politically leading behind several of the city's largest urban development projects of the 20th century, including Slussen, Stockholm Metro and the major redevelopment of Norrmalm borough in central Stockholm. Larsson's role in the post-war planning of Stockholm and its new suburbs was internationally recognized. The American city planner Clarence Stein wrote that:\nDuring the Second World War, Larsson was also a leading Nordic anti-nazi, and a board member of Samfundet Nordens Frihet and chairman of Svensk-Norska föreningen. He was awarded several Swedish and foreign state orders. In 1946, King Haakon VII appointed Larsson as a Commander with Star of the Norwegian Order of St. Olav \"for particularly outstanding merits of the Norwegian Resistance during the war.\" He also received the French Legion of Honour, Swedish Order of the Polar Star and Order of Vasa and the Order of the White Rose of Finland.\n\nLarsson came to be called his century's foremost Swedish \"city builder\" and Stockholm politician.\n\nYngve Larsson was married to Elin (1884-1980), née Bonnier, and they had six children, including later professor Yngve A. A. Larsson.\n\n\n"}
