{"id": "3972845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3972845", "title": "Administrative divisions of Canada", "text": "Administrative divisions of Canada\n\nCanada is divided into ten provinces and three territories.\n\nEach province has a different system of local government which may include upper-tier or rural jurisdictions such as counties, municipal districts, regional municipalities, regional districts or regional county municipalities. These divisions are then divided into lower-tier or urban jurisdictions such as cities, towns, villages, townships, and parishes. Cities in Quebec are further subdivided into arrondissements (similar to boroughs), while outside of Quebec cities are divided into wards.\n\nStatistics Canada aggregates statistical census data into census divisions, which follow boundaries of one or more large local government units. Municipalities (and in some cases, communities within municipalities) within census divisions may be considered census subdivisions.\n\n"}
{"id": "7979836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7979836", "title": "Akyem Abuakwa", "text": "Akyem Abuakwa\n\nAkyem Abuakwa describes a Akyem an Akan people traditional entity in the Eastern Region of Ghana.\n\nAkyen Abuakwa is one of the three independent states along with Akyem Bosome and Akyem Kotoku that forms the Akyem Mansa. It is in Eastern and Ashanti regions of Ghana.\n\nThe Akyem Abuakwa state was clearly in existence under the rule of Ofori Panin. He seems to have ruled for many years stretching until about 1730.\n\nBy the start of the 19th-century it had been subjects of the Ashanti Empire. In 1811 it rebelled against the Ashanti, in which 100 Ashanti officials in the area were killed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23328673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23328673", "title": "Avinguda de la Llum", "text": "Avinguda de la Llum\n\nAvinguda de la Llum (Catalan for \"Avenue of Light\"; Spanish: Avenida de la Luz) is a now closed underground mall in Barcelona, the first one of its kind to open in Europe, open between 1940 and 1990, on a 2000 square-metre site built in 1929 and boasting 68 commercial establishments, including a movie theater. It was underneath Carrer de Pelai, between Plaça de Catalunya, Carrer de Balmes, Carrer de Bergara and Plaça de la Universitat, upstairs of the Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat de Catalunya (FGC) station Catalunya, between its vaults and the street.\n\nIn spite of being initially part of an ambitious plan to build an underground city from Plaça Urquinaona to Plaça de la Universitat, the urban decay prevalent in the area from the 1960s onwards prompted its progressive abandonment. The Avinguda de la Llum was a decayed place with plenty of homeless people living in it by the time it was closed, on May 21, 1990. On the ground upstairs stood an empty, triangular in shape area between buildings which came to be called \"Triangle de la vergonya\" (\"Triangle of shame\"), which contributed to the adoption of measures to renovate the area in time for the 1992 Summer Olympics.\n\nNowadays its main corridor is part of the underground stage of a Sephora store in the El Triangle shopping centre, its successor, while some parts of it are still abandoned and closed to the public.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1185872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1185872", "title": "Baetic System", "text": "Baetic System\n\nThe Baetic System () is one of the main systems of mountain ranges in Spain. Located in the southern and eastern Iberian Peninsula, it is also known as the Baetic Cordillera, Baetic Ranges or Baetic Mountains. The name of the mountain system derives from the ancient Roman region of Baetica, one of the Imperial Roman provinces of ancient Hispania.\n\nThe Baetic System is made up of multiple mountain ranges that reach from western Andalusia to the Region of Murcia, southern Castile-La Mancha and the Land of Valencia. To the north, the Baetic Ranges are separated from the Meseta Central and the Sierra Morena by the basin of the Guadalquivir. The Iberian System rises north of the eastern part of the Prebaetic System, the northernmost prolongation of the Baetic System. Generally the mountain ranges that are part of this system are aligned in a southwest-northeast direction.\nThe most well-known range of the Baetic System is the Sierra Nevada, where the Mulhacén, the highest mountain in continental Spain and in the Iberian Peninsula is found. \nThe Rock of Gibraltar is also considered to be part of the Baetic System, but not the Cabo de Gata area further east which includes rocks of volcanic origin.\n\nThe Baetic System as a geological feature belongs to a larger orogeny usually called the Gibraltar Arc, which represents the westernmost edge of the Alpine Orogeny. The geodynamic mechanisms responsible for its formation are so far relatively unknown.\n\nGeologically the Rif mountains in Morocco and the Serra de Tramuntana in the island of Majorca are extensions of the Baetic System.\nThe Gibraltar Arc geological region follows the Moroccan coast from Oujda in the east to Tanger in the west, then crosses the Strait of Gibraltar and goes east again from Cádiz to Valencia and the Balearic Islands.\n\nThe Baetic System is home to a number of Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and scrub plant communities, including shrublands, oak woodlands, broadleaf forests, and coniferous forests, which vary with elevation, soils, and topography.\n\nThe Baetic System, together with the Rif Mountains of Morocco, which face the Baetic Ranges across the Alboran Sea, is one of the Mediterranean basin's ten biodiversity hotspots, known to ecologists as the Baetic-Rifan complex. The Baetic mountains are home to a rich assemblage of Mediterranean plants, including a number of relict species from the ancient laurel forests, which covered much of the Mediterranean basin millions of years ago when it was more humid.\n\nThe Baetic System is divided into the following sub-chains:\n\nThe Penibaetic System includes the highest point in the peninsula, the 3,478 m high Mulhacén in the Sierra Nevada; other ranges and features are:\n\nThe Subbaetic System occupies a central position within the Baetic System. Highest point high Peña de la Cruz in Sierra Arana.\n\n\nThe Prebaetic System is the northernmost feature of the whole Baetic System. Highest point 2,382 m high La Sagra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4995", "title": "Barbagia", "text": "Barbagia\n\nBarbagia ( or ) is a mountain area of inner Sardinia. It is a natural region mostly contained in the province of Nuoro and located alongside the Gennargentu massif.\n\nThe name comes from Cicero, who described it as a land of barbarians (\"Barbaria\", Βαρβαρία in Ancient Greek). This word derives from the Greek Βάρβαρος, which means \"stuttering\". The inhabitants were also known, by the ancient Romans, with the pejorative term \"latrones mastrucati\", which means \"thieves with a rough garment in wool\". Roman domination in this area of Sardinia was never more than nominal.\n\nIn 594, Pope Gregory the Great wrote a letter to Hospito, a Christian whom he calls the \"leader of the Barbaricini\" (\"dux barbaricinorum\"). Hospito apparently permitted the evangelisation of pagan Barbagia by Christian missionaries.\n\nThe area is usually divided into five Barbagias: the Barbagia of Ollolai, the Barbagia of Seulo, the Barbagia of Belvì, the Mandrolisai, and finally the \"Barbagia Trigònia\", the historical name by which the area of Ogliastra was once referred to. The latter two are named after a sub-region, and the others after their main villages.\n\nThe area is full of hard hills and mountains, and there is little human presence. Barbagia is one of the least populated areas in Europe, which has allowed Barbagia to preserve its cultural and natural treasures. Barbagia is one of the few, if not the only Sardinian region, where Sardinian language and its internal varieties (both Nuorese and Campidanese dialects) is still spoken on an everyday basis, while the rest of the island has already undergone shift to Italian.\n\nOne of the most important villages is Gavoi. Orgosolo was famous for its bandits and kidnappers and typical murals. Oliena is well known for its wines (especially the Nepente, a wine made with Cannonau grapes). Another well known town is Fonni, the highest town in Sardinia at more than 1,000 meters above sea level. Fonni is also the gateway to the Gennargentu mountain system.\n\nThe economy consists of agriculture, sheep breeding, art and tradition related business, tourism and light industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "32106982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32106982", "title": "Battle of the Waters of Merom", "text": "Battle of the Waters of Merom\n\nAccording to the Bible, the Battle of the Waters of Merom was a battle between the Israelites and a coalition of Canaanite city-states near the Waters of Merom. Archaeologist Nadav Na'aman has suggested that this battle may never have taken place, and that its narrative might have \"preserved some remote echoes of wars conducted in these places in early Iron Age I.\" \n\nIn the biblical narrative, around 40 years before the battle, the Israelites escaped from slavery in Egypt, setting out for the Exodus under the leadership of Moses. They entered Canaan near Jericho and captured several cities. An alliance of northern Canaanite city-states sent a united force to halt the Israelite invasion. The Israelites counterattacked, catching the Canaanite forces unaware and routing them with a fearsome head-on assault. The battle is described in Joshua chapter 11.\n\n"}
{"id": "24786370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24786370", "title": "Channel pattern", "text": "Channel pattern\n\nChannel patterns are found in rivers, streams, and other bodies of water that transport water from one place to another. Systems of branching river channels dissect most of the sub-aerial landscape, each in a valley proportioned to its size. Whether formed by chance or necessity, by headward erosion or downslope convergence, whether inherited or newly formed. Depending on different geological factors such as weathering, erosion, depositional environment, and sediment type, different types of channel patterns can form.\n\nThere are two main types of channels, bedrock and alluvial, which are present no matter the sub-classification. Bedrock channels are composed entirely of compacted rock, with only patches of alluvium scattered throughout. Because the bedrock is constantly exposed it takes much less stream power to carve the channel. The hydraulic force of flowing water can push and pull detached joint blocks out of their initial position and roll or drag them downstream. Plucking is common in jointed rocks, where this occurs.\n\nAlluvial channels are much more common and can be large or small. All large rivers, and most small ones, have channels that are usually lined with alluvium, sediment that was carried to that channel reach by the river and that eventually will be carried farther downstream. This lining of alluvium creates a protective shield over the bedrock, which means it takes a much greater stream power to carve the channel.\n\nThere are a few distinctly different channel types based on their geological structure and depositional environment. Braided rivers carry fairly coarse-grained sediment down a fairly steep gradient. They typically exhibit numerous channels that split off and rejoin each other to give a braided appearance. Additionally, the water discharge tends to be highly variable. Consequently, braided rivers usually exist near mountainous regions, especially those with glaciers. These braided channels usually occur in tectonically active environments and have a larger sediment load due to varying water flow and discharge.\n\nOften confused with braided channels, anastomosing is reserved for a type of river with multiple, interconnected, coexisting channel belts on alluvial plains. Based on its geomorphology, saucer-shaped islands called flood-basins characterize anastomosing rivers. These channels are classified as a composite form of which the individual channel belts may have braided, meandering or straight channels. Although similar to, and even encompass other channel types, anastomosed rivers are their own entity and have just begun to be studied by geologists, revealing that much is still unknown.\n\nFluvial processes form several channel patterns, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37064800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37064800", "title": "Chilean Lake District", "text": "Chilean Lake District\n\nThe Chilean Lake District is a zone in Southern Chile defined by its many lakes in the Andean foothills. The term is primarily used in tourism literature and advertising, in Chile Zona Sur is preferred as a geographical concept. The Chilean Lake District includes the cities of Temuco, Villarrica, Pucón, Valdivia, Entre Lagos (Puyehue), Puerto Octay, Frutillar, Puerto Varas and Puerto Montt. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "37292962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37292962", "title": "Churchyards in Northwestern France", "text": "Churchyards in Northwestern France\n\nMain article \"Churchyards\"\n\nChurchyards in northwestern France are often much older than the church itself. The shape and the height are both indicators of age. Churches often sit on sites of great antiquity, long predating Christianity.\n\nThe general rectangular shape of today’s churchyard began in the early middle ages, so sometimes older grounds are indicated by oval or round forms.Selection of a location by the church involved commandeering pagan holy places, which were linked to landscape features. Springs were particularly important as they were thought of as points of contact between the underworld and the surface world. These locations were associated with particular pre-Christian gods and goddesses, sometimes Roman gods had previously replaced Gallic or Celts ones.Christian missionaries were specifically instructed to take over sites of pagan worship, thus depriving the old gods of their perches, but also enabling the Christian religion to inherit some of the sanctity that native people associated with the site. \n\nAnother broad indication of greater antiquity is the height of the churchyard earth in relation to the ground outside the walls. Centuries of repeated burials in the same location resulted in the gradual elevation of terrain.\n\nToday a churchyard looks quiet and somber but in medieval times, despite protests by generations of bishops, the church grounds were popular sites for games, gatherings, dancing and dalliances. The church grounds being the only public grounds available. News and gossip brought out an audience, often after mass. Before the 17th century gravestones were rare with most country churches having none before the 18th century. \n\nThe churchyard cross usually was the only obstacle for the frequent activities on the church grounds. This cross was always found on the sunlite side mounted on stepped base, and indicated that the churchyard was consecreted ground. Sunny southern side of the church was the favored spot for burials. The northern exposure, associated with the devil, was designated for the graves of strangers, unbaptised children, outcasts and suicides.During the 18th and 19th centuries, the increased use of stone monuments, brought pressure to use these shadow realms. Archery sometimes was practiced on these northern sides as well because less activity happened there.\n\nCemeteries\n"}
{"id": "2830832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2830832", "title": "Community studies", "text": "Community studies\n\n<onlyinclude>\nCommunity studies is an academic field drawing on both sociology and anthropology and the social research methods of ethnography and participant observation in the study of community. In academic settings around the world, community studies is variously a sub-discipline of anthropology or sociology, or an independent discipline. It is often interdisciplinary and geared toward practical applications rather than purely theoretical perspectives. Community studies is sometimes combined with other fields, i.e., \"Urban and Community Studies,\" \"Health and Community Studies,\" or \"Family and Community studies.\"\n</onlyinclude>\n\nIn North America, community studies drew inspiration from the classic urban sociology texts produced by the Chicago School, such as the works of Louis Wirth and William Foote Whyte. In Britain, community studies was developed for colonial administrators working in East Africa, particularly Kenya. It was further developed in the post-war period with the Institute of Community Studies founded by Michael Young in east London, and with the studies published from the Institute, such as \"Family and Kinship in East London\".\n\nCommunity studies, like colonial anthropology, have often assumed the existence of discrete, relatively homogeneous, almost tribe-like communities, which can be studied as organic wholes. In this, it has been a key influence on communitarianism and communalism, from the local context to the global and everywhere in between.\n\nCommunity studies curricula are often centered on the \"concerns\" of communities. These include mental and physical health, stress, addiction, AIDS, racism, immigration, ethnicity, gender, identity, sexuality, the environment, crime, deviance, delinquency, family problems, social competence, poverty, homelessness and other psycho-social aspects. Understanding the socio-cultural completeness and the anthropological ramifications of the accurate analysis of community health is key to the sphere of these studies.\n\nAnother focus of curricula in community studies is upon anthropology, cultural anthropology in particular. Some programs set as prerequisite knowledge, the background and historical contexts for community, drawing upon archeological findings and the theoretical underpinnings for social organization in ancient and prehistorical community settings. The theories connected with the so-called \"Neolithic revolution\" is one example of a deep study into how, where and why, hunter-gatherer communities formed.\n\nCommunity studies have been linked to the causes of social justice, promoting peace and nonviolence and working towards social change, often within an activist framework.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10543311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10543311", "title": "Daboll trumpet", "text": "Daboll trumpet\n\nA Daboll trumpet is an air trumpet foghorn which was developed by an American, Celadon Leeds Daboll, of New London, Connecticut. It was basically a small coal-fired hot air engine, which compressed air in a cylinder on top of which was a reed horn.\n\nThe Daboll trumpet, consists of a steel reed vibrating within a horn, which uses the hot air engine to force cold air by means of an air pump into a boiler, from which it escapes into the horn through a valve, causing the vibrations of the reed, which are regulated by an automatic cam.\n\nDaboll's cousin, Charles Miner Daboll (1823-), inventor of the Daboll bushing, is credited with developing the Daboll trumpet for practical use.\n\nThe following citation is from: \"Scientific American Supplement\", Vol. XIX, No. 470, Jan. 3, 1885.\nThe Daboll trumpet was invented by Mr. C.L. Daboll, of\nConnecticut, who was experimenting to meet the announced wants of the\nUnited States Lighthouse Board. The largest consists of a huge trumpet\nseventeen feet long, with a throat three and one-half inches in diameter,\nand a flaring mouth thirty-eight inches across. In the trumpet is a\nresounding cavity, and a tongue-like steel reed ten inches long, two and\nthree-quarter inches wide, one inch thick at its fixed end, and half that\nat its free end. Air is condensed in a reservoir and driven through the\ntrumpet by hot air or steam machinery at a pressure of from fifteen to\ntwenty pounds, and is capable of making a shriek which can be heard at a\ngreat distance for a certain number of seconds each minute, by about\none-quarter of the power expended in the case of the whistle. In all his\nexperiments against and at right angles and at other angles to the wind,\nthe trumpet stood first and the whistle came next in power. In the trial\nof the relative power of various instruments made by Gen. Duane in 1874,\nthe twelve-inch whistle was reported as exceeding the first-class Daboll\ntrumpet. Beaseley reports that the trumpet has done good work at various\nBritish stations, making itself heard from five to ten miles. The engineer\nin charge of the lighthouses of Canada says: \"The expense for repairs, and\nthe frequent stoppages to make these repairs during the four years they\ncontinued in use, made them [the trumpets] expensive and unreliable. The\nfrequent stoppages during foggy weather made them sources of danger\ninstead of aids to navigation. The sound of these trumpets has\ndeteriorated during the last year or so.\" Gen. Duane, reporting as to his\nexperiments in 1881, says: \"The Daboll trumpet, operated by a caloric\nengine, should only be employed in exceptional cases, such as at stations\nwhere no water can be procured, and where from the proximity of other\nsignals it may be necessary to vary the nature of the sound.\" Thus it\nwould seem that the Daboll trumpet is an exceptionally fine instrument,\nproducing a sound of great penetration and of sufficient power for\nordinary practical use, but that to be kept going it requires skillful\nmanagement and constant care.\n\"Congress made an appropriation in 1860 authorizing the Light-House Board to make\nexperiments with \"Daboll's trumpet and other ear signals,\" but nothing was done until some time later.\"\n\nDaboll's trumpet were installed at the following during trials:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20947490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20947490", "title": "Danube-Ipoly National Park", "text": "Danube-Ipoly National Park\n\nDanube-Ipoly National Park is one of the most diverse national parks in Hungary. In 1997, the park was created from Pilis and Börzsöny national parks, with the addition of part of the floodplain of the River Ipoly. This park encompasses areas in Budapest, Pest County, Komárom-Esztergom County and Fejér County. Its offices are in Budapest and in the Jókai garden (Budapest XII), and its headquarters are in Esztergom.\n\nSome species – both flora and fauna – have their sole habitat in this park, and there is a programme to save these rare and endangered species.\n"}
{"id": "25454905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25454905", "title": "Danxia landform", "text": "Danxia landform\n\nThe Danxia landform () refers to various landscapes found in southeast, southwest and northwest China that \"consist of a red bed characterized by steep cliffs\". It is a unique type of petrographic geomorphology found in China. Danxia landform is formed from red-coloured sandstones and conglomerates of largely Cretaceous age. The landforms look very much like karst topography that forms in areas underlain by limestones, but since the rocks that form danxia are sandstones and conglomerates, they have been called \"pseudo-karst\" landforms. They were formed by endogenous forces (including uplift) and exogenous forces (including weathering and erosion).\n\nThe first studies on what are now referred to as Danxia landforms were conducted at Mount Danxia near Shaoguan, China. In the 1920s and 1930s Chinese geologists made an effort to learn more about these interesting geomorphic structures. Danxia landforms are made up uplifted continental crust that has been faulted and eroded, exposing large scarps of layered rock, red in color.\n\nDanxia landforms cover several provinces in southeast China. Taining County, Fujian Province, has very good examples of \"young\" danxia landforms wherein deep, narrow valleys have been formed. As the landform gets older, valleys widen and one gets isolated towers and ridges.The danxia landform is named after Mount Danxia, one of the most famous examples of the danxia landform. A very peculiar feature of danxia landscape is the development of numerous caves of various sizes and shapes. The caves tend to be shallow and isolated, unlike true karst terrain where caves tend to form deep, interconnecting networks. In 2010, several danxia landscapes in southern China, with a general name of \"China Danxia\", were inscribed as a World Heritage Site. The six inscribed danxia landform areas are: Mount Langshan and Mount Wanfo (Hunan Province), Mount Danxia (Guangdong Province), Taining and Mount Guanzhi (Fujian Province), Mount Longhu and Guifeng (Jiangxi Province), Fangyan, Mount Jianglang (Zhejiang Province), and Mount Chishui (Guizhou Province). The total core area of 6 regions above is 73945 ha (182,722 acres), and the total buffer area is 65446 ha (161,720 acres). Other notable danxia areas, such as Zhangye Danxia National Geological Park, are not included in the World Heritage Site.\n\nAround 80 million years ago (Ma) cretaceous red sandstone and conglomerate was laid down by sedimentation from the lakes and streams. After another 15 million years, tectonic plate movements created many faults. About 23 Ma, movement of the Himalayan range disturbed the land around the Danxia landform in the Guangdong Province of China uplifting and completely changing the topography of the area. Over millions of years the steep cliffs that can be seen today, exposed by faults, were formed through weathering and erosion. This geology can be seen at Danxiashan Geopark in China, where there is about 290 square kilometers of streams, forest and towering danxian rock formations.\n\nIn an effort to learn more about danxia topography, a study on the geomorphology of an area in China was conducted. Mount Danxia was the focus of the research, taking Digital Elevation Matrix (DEM) based data from many watersheds and basins in the area. Understanding the hydrology of the area can tell a lot about the nearby formations. For example, \"localized erosion has enhanced deepening of existing fractures rather than lateral erosion to form deep and narrow valleys, while long-term erosion provided large and gentle watersheds.\" This study used ArcGIS. These scientists took maps of the area and overlaid certain features they wanted to measure, such as stream length and size.\n\nChina Danxia, or Danxia landform of China, is a subset of the Danxia landforms which, in August 2010, entered the World Heritage List.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40095511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40095511", "title": "Eastdenmark", "text": "Eastdenmark\n\nEastdenmark () is a geographical term that refers to the part of Denmark east of Storebælt, including Zealand and Bornholm. From a linguistic and historical point of view the term refers to the area east of the Øresund (the former Danish territories Scania, Halland and Blekinge and Bornholm). The former dialects in Skåneland are accordingly called East Danish (\"Østdansk\").\n"}
{"id": "15746136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15746136", "title": "Franklin's lost expedition", "text": "Franklin's lost expedition\n\nFranklin's lost expedition was a British voyage of Arctic exploration led by Captain Sir John Franklin that departed England in 1845 aboard two ships, and . A Royal Navy officer and experienced explorer, Franklin had served on three previous Arctic expeditions, the latter two as commanding officer. His fourth and last, undertaken when he was 59, was meant to traverse the last unnavigated section of the Northwest Passage. After a few early fatalities, the two ships became icebound in Victoria Strait, near King William Island in the Canadian Arctic. The entire expedition, comprising 129 men including Franklin, was lost.\n\nPressed by Franklin's wife, Jane, Lady Franklin, and others, the Admiralty launched a search for the missing expedition in 1848. Prompted in part by Franklin's fame and the Admiralty's offer of a finder's reward, many subsequent expeditions joined the hunt, which at one point in 1850 involved eleven British and two American ships. Several of these ships converged off the east coast of Beechey Island, where the first relics of the expedition were found, including the graves of three crewmen. In 1854, explorer John Rae, while surveying near the Canadian Arctic coast southeast of King William Island, acquired relics of and stories about the Franklin party from local Inuit. A search led by Francis Leopold McClintock in 1859 discovered a note left on King William Island with details about the expedition's fate. Searches continued through much of the 19th century. In 2014, a Canadian search team led by Parks Canada located the wreck of \"Erebus\" west of O'Reilly Island, in the eastern portion of Queen Maud Gulf, in the waters of the Arctic archipelago. Two years later, the Arctic Research Foundation found the wreck of \"Terror\" south of King William Island. Research and dive expeditions at the wreck sites are currently ongoing.\n\nIn 1981, a team of scientists led by Owen Beattie, a professor of anthropology at the University of Alberta, began a series of scientific studies of the graves, bodies, and other physical evidence left by Franklin's men on Beechey Island and King William Island. They concluded that the men buried on Beechey Island most likely died of pneumonia and perhaps tuberculosis, and that lead poisoning may have worsened their health, owing to badly soldered cans held in the ships' food stores. It was later suggested that the source of this lead may not have been tinned food, but the distilled water systems fitted to the ships. However, studies in 2013 and 2016 suggested that lead poisoning was likely not a factor, and that the crew's ill health may, in fact, have been due to malnutrition – specifically zinc deficiency – possibly due to a lack of meat in their diet.\n\nCut marks on human bones found on King William Island were seen as signs of cannibalism. The combined evidence of all the studies suggested that the crewmen did not all die quickly. Hypothermia, starvation, lead poisoning or zinc deficiency, and diseases including scurvy, along with general exposure to a hostile environment whilst lacking adequate clothing and nutrition, killed everyone on the expedition in the years following its last sighting by Europeans in 1845.\n\nThe Victorian media portrayed Franklin as a hero despite the expedition's failure and the reports of cannibalism. Songs were written about him, and statues of him in his home town, in London, and in Tasmania credit him with discovery of the Northwest Passage, although in reality it was not traversed until Roald Amundsen's 1903–1906 expedition. Franklin's lost expedition has been the subject of many artistic works, including songs, verse, short stories, and novels, as well as television documentaries.\n\nThe search by Europeans for a western shortcut by sea from Europe to Asia began with the voyages of Christopher Columbus in 1492 and continued through the mid-19th century with a long series of exploratory expeditions originating mainly in England. These voyages, when to any degree successful, added to the sum of European geographic knowledge about the Western Hemisphere, particularly North America, and as that knowledge grew larger, attention gradually turned toward the Arctic. Voyagers of the 16th and 17th centuries who made geographic discoveries about North America included Martin Frobisher, John Davis, Henry Hudson, and William Baffin. In 1670, the incorporation of the Hudson's Bay Company led to further exploration of the Canadian coasts and interior and of the Arctic seas. In the 18th century, explorers included James Knight, Christopher Middleton, Samuel Hearne, James Cook, Alexander MacKenzie, and George Vancouver. By 1800, their discoveries showed conclusively that no Northwest Passage navigable by ships lay in the temperate latitudes between the Pacific and the Atlantic Oceans.\n\nIn 1804, Sir John Barrow became Second Secretary of the Admiralty, a post he held until 1845, and began a push by the Royal Navy to complete the Northwest Passage over the top of Canada and to navigate toward the North Pole. Over the next four decades, explorers including John Ross, David Buchan, William Edward Parry, Frederick William Beechey, James Clark Ross, George Back, Peter Warren Dease, and Thomas Simpson made productive trips to the Canadian Arctic. Among these explorers was John Franklin, second-in-command of an expedition towards the North Pole in the ships \"Dorothea\" and \"Trent\" in 1818 and the leader of overland expeditions to and along the Arctic coast of Canada in 1819–22 and 1825–27. By 1845, the combined discoveries of all of these expeditions had reduced the relevant unknown parts of the Canadian Arctic to a quadrilateral area of about . It was into this unknown area that Franklin was to sail, heading west through Lancaster Sound and then west and south as ice, land, and other obstacles might allow, to complete the Northwest Passage. The distance to be navigated was roughly .\n\nBarrow, who was 82 and nearing the end of his career, deliberated about who should command the expedition to complete the Northwest Passage and perhaps also find what Barrow believed to be an ice-free Open Polar Sea around the North Pole. Parry, his first choice, was tired of the Arctic and politely declined. His second choice, James Clark Ross, also declined because he had promised his new wife he was done with the Arctic. Barrow's third choice, James Fitzjames, was rejected by the Admiralty on account of his youth. Barrow considered George Back but thought he was too argumentative. Francis Crozier, another possibility, was of humble birth and Irish, which counted against him. Reluctantly, Barrow settled on the 59-year-old Franklin. The expedition was to consist of two ships, and , each of which had seen Antarctic service with James Clark Ross. Franklin was given command of \"Erebus\", and Crozier, who had commanded \"Terror\" during the Antarctica expedition with Ross in 1841–44, was appointed the executive officer and commander of \"Terror\". Franklin received his expedition command on 7 February 1845, and his official instructions on 5 May 1845.\n\n\"Erebus\" at 378 tons (bm) and \"Terror\" at 331 tons (bm) were sturdily built, and were outfitted with recent inventions. Steam engines were fitted in to drive a single screw in each vessel; these engines were former locomotives from the London & Croydon Railway. They enabled the ships to make on their own power.\n\nOther advanced technology included bows reinforced with heavy beams and plates of iron, an internal steam heating device for the comfort of the crew, screw propellers and iron rudders that could be withdrawn into iron wells to protect them from damage, ships' libraries of more than 1,000 books, and three years' worth of conventionally preserved or tinned preserved food supplies. The latter was supplied from a provisioner, Stephen Goldner, who was awarded the contract on 1 April 1845, a mere seven weeks before Franklin set sail. Goldner worked frantically on the large and hasty order of 8,000 tins. The speed required affected quality control of a proportion of the tins manufactured, which were later found to have lead soldering that was \"thick and sloppily done, and dripped like melted candle wax down the inside surface\".\n\nMost of the crew were Englishmen, many of them from Northern England, as well as a small number of Irishmen and Scotsmen. Aside from Franklin, Crozier, and Lieutenant Graham Gore, the only other officers who were Arctic veterans were an assistant surgeon and the two icemasters.\n\nList of crew from the \"Erebus \"and \"Terror \"manifest:\n\nApart from Sir John Franklin himself, who was a former Lieutenant-Governor of Van Diemen's Land, the crew included two people with close family connections to explorers of Australia who also died tragically. Cmdr Henry Le Vesconte was the first cousin of William John Wills, the co-leader of the 1861 Burke and Wills expedition, the first to cross the Australian mainland from south to north; both Burke and Wills perished on the return journey. William Gibson, a steward on HMS \"Terror\", was the elder brother of Alfred Gibson, who disappeared on an 1874 expedition led by Ernest Giles to cross the deserts of Western Australia from east to west, and was honoured in the naming of the Gibson Desert. From Giles' journal entry of 21 April 1873:\nI remarked to Gibson as we rode along that this was the anniversary of Burke's and Wills's return to their depot at Coopers' Creek and then recited to him, as he did not appear to know anything whatever about it, the hardships they endured, their desperate struggles for existence and death there; and casually remarked that Mr Wills had a brother [sic] who also lost his life in the field of discovery, as he went out with Sir John Franklin in 1845. Gibson then remarked, \"Oh, I had a brother who died with Franklin at the North Pole and my father had a great deal of trouble getting his pay from Government\".\n\n The expedition set sail from Greenhithe, England, on the morning of 19 May 1845, with a crew of 24 officers and 110 men. The ships stopped briefly in Stromness Harbour in the Orkney Islands in northern Scotland, and from there they sailed to Greenland with and a transport ship, \"Barretto Junior\".\n\nAt the Whalefish Islands in Disko Bay, on the west coast of Greenland, 10 oxen carried by the transport ship were slaughtered for fresh meat; supplies were transferred to \"Erebus\" and \"Terror\", and crew members wrote their last letters home. Letters written on board told how Franklin banned swearing and drunkenness. Before the expedition's final departure, five men were discharged and sent home on \"Rattler\" and \"Barretto Junior\", reducing the ships' final crew size to 129. The expedition was last seen by Europeans in late July 1845, when Captain Dannett of the whaler \"Prince of Wales\" and Captain Robert Martin of the whaler \"Enterprise\" encountered \"Terror\" and \"Erebus\" in Baffin Bay, waiting for good conditions to cross to Lancaster Sound.\n\nOver the next 150 years, other expeditions, explorers, scientists and interviews from native Inuit peoples would piece together what happened next. Franklin's men wintered in 1845–46 on Beechey Island, where three crew members died and were buried. \"Terror\" and \"Erebus\" became trapped in ice off King William Island in September 1846 and are believed to have never sailed again. According to a , and left on the island by Fitzjames and Crozier, Franklin had died on 11 June 1847; the crew had wintered on King William Island in 1846–47 and 1847–48, and the remaining crew had planned to begin walking on 26 April 1848 toward the Back River on the Canadian mainland. Nine officers and fifteen men had already died; the rest would die along the way, most on the island and another 30 or 40 on the northern coast of the mainland, hundreds of miles from the nearest outpost of Western civilization.\n\nAfter two years had passed with no word from Franklin, public concern grew and Lady Franklin—as well as members of Parliament and British newspapers—urged the Admiralty to send a search party. In response, the Admiralty developed a three-pronged plan put into effect in the spring of 1848 that sent an overland rescue party, led by Sir John Richardson and John Rae, down the MacKenzie River to the Canadian Arctic coast. Two expeditions by sea were also launched, one entering the Canadian Arctic archipelago through Lancaster Sound, and the other entering from the Pacific side. In addition, the Admiralty offered a reward of £20,000 (£ as of ) \"to any Party or Parties, of any country, who shall render assistance to the crews of the Discovery Ships under the command of Sir John Franklin\". After the three-pronged effort failed, British national concern and interest in the Arctic increased until \"finding Franklin became nothing less than a crusade.\" Ballads such as \"Lady Franklin's Lament\", commemorating Lady Franklin's search for her lost husband, became popular.\n\nMany joined the search. In 1850, eleven British and two American ships cruised the Canadian Arctic, including \"Breadalbane\", and her sister ship . Several converged off the east coast of Beechey Island, where the first relics of the expedition were found, including remnants of a winter camp from 1845–46 and the graves of John Torrington, John Hartnell, and William Braine. No messages from the Franklin expedition were found at this site. In the spring of 1851, passengers and crew aboard several ships observed a huge iceberg off Newfoundland which bore two vessels, one upright and one on its beam ends. The ships were not examined closely. It was suggested at the time that the ships could have been \"Erebus\" and \"Terror\", but it is now known that they were not; it is likely that they were abandoned whaling ships.\n\nIn 1852, Edward Belcher was given command of the government Arctic expedition in search of Sir John Franklin. This was unsuccessful; Belcher's inability to render himself popular with his subordinates was peculiarly unfortunate in an Arctic voyage, and he was not wholly suited to command vessels among ice. Four of the five ships (, \"Pioneer\", and \"Intrepid\") were abandoned in pack ice, for which Belcher was court-martialed but acquitted. One of those ships, HMS \"Resolute\", was later recovered intact by an American whaler and returned to the United Kingdom. Timbers from the ship were later used to manufacture three desks, one of which, the Resolute desk, was presented by Queen Victoria to the U.S. President Rutherford B. Hayes; it has often been chosen by presidents for use in the Oval Office in the White House.\n\nIn 1854, John Rae, while surveying the Boothia Peninsula for the Hudson's Bay Company (HBC), discovered further evidence of the expedition's fate. Rae met an Inuk near Pelly Bay (now Kugaaruk, Nunavut) on 21 April 1854, who told him of a party of 35 to 40 white men who had died of starvation near the mouth of the Back River. Other Inuit confirmed this story, which included reports of cannibalism among the dying sailors. The Inuit showed Rae many objects that were identified as having belonged to Franklin and his men. In particular, Rae brought from the Inuit several silver forks and spoons later identified as belonging to Franklin, Fitzjames, Crozier, and Robert Osmer Sargent, a shipmate aboard \"Erebus\". Rae's report was sent to the Admiralty, which in October 1854 urged the HBC to send an expedition down the Back River to search for other signs of Franklin and his men.\n\nNext were Chief Factor James Anderson and HBC employee James Stewart, who travelled north by canoe to the mouth of the Back River. In July 1855, a band of Inuit told them of a group of \"qallunaat\" (Inuktitut for \"whites\") who had starved to death along the coast. In August, Anderson and Stewart found a piece of wood inscribed with \"Erebus\" and another that said \"Mr. Stanley\" (surgeon aboard \"Erebus\") on Montreal Island in Chantrey Inlet, where the Back River meets the sea.\n\nDespite the findings of Rae and Anderson, the Admiralty did not plan another search of its own. Britain officially labelled the crew deceased in service on 31 March 1854. Lady Franklin, failing to convince the government to fund another search, personally commissioned one more expedition under Francis Leopold McClintock. The expedition ship, the steam schooner \"Fox\", bought via public subscription, sailed from Aberdeen on 2 July 1857.\n\nIn April 1859, sledge parties set out from \"Fox\" to search on King William Island. On 5 May, the party led by Royal Navy Lieutenant William Hobson found a document in a cairn left by Crozier and Fitzjames. It contained two messages. The first, dated 28 May 1847, said that \"Erebus\" and \"Terror\" had wintered in the ice off the northwest coast of King William Island and had wintered earlier at Beechey Island after circumnavigating Cornwallis Island. \"Sir John Franklin commanding the Expedition. \"All well\",\" the message said. The second message, written in the margins of that same sheet of paper, was much more ominous. Dated 25 April 1848, it reported that \"Erebus\" and \"Terror\" had been trapped in the ice for a year and a half and that the crew had abandoned the ships on 22 April. Twenty-four officers and crew had died, including Franklin on 11 June 1847, just two weeks after the date of the first note. Crozier was commanding the expedition, and the 105 survivors planned to start out the next day, heading south towards the Back River. This note contains significant errors; most notably, the date of the expedition's winter camp at Beechey Island is incorrectly given as 1846–47 rather than 1845–46.\n\nThe McClintock expedition also found a human skeleton on the southern coast of King William Island. Still clothed, it was searched, and some papers were found, including a seaman's certificate for Chief Petty Officer Henry Peglar (b. 1808), Captain of the Foretop, HMS \"Terror\". However, since the uniform was that of a ship's steward, it is more likely that the body was that of Thomas Armitage, gun-room steward on \"Terror\" and a shipmate of Peglar, whose papers he carried. At another site on the western extreme of the island, Hobson discovered a lifeboat containing two skeletons and relics from the Franklin expedition. In the boat was a large amount of abandoned equipment, including boots, silk handkerchiefs, scented soap, sponges, slippers, hair combs, and many books, among them a copy of \"The Vicar of Wakefield\". McClintock also took testimony from the Inuit about the expedition's disastrous end.\n\nTwo expeditions between 1860 and 1869 by Charles Francis Hall, who lived among the Inuit near Frobisher Bay on Baffin Island and later at Repulse Bay on the Canadian mainland, found camps, graves, and relics on the southern coast of King William Island, but he believed none of the Franklin expedition survivors would be found among the Inuit. In 1869 local Inuit took him to a shallow grave on King Edward Island containing well preserved skeletal remains and fragments of clothing. These remains were taken to England and interred beneath the Franklin Memorial at Greenwich Old Royal Naval College, London. The eminent biologist Thomas Henry Huxley examined the remains and it was concluded that the remains were those of HTD Le Vesconte, a lieutenant on HMS \"Erebus\". An examination in 2009 suggested that these were the remains of Harry Goodsir, assistant surgeon on HMS \"Erebus\". \nAlthough Hall concluded that all of the Franklin crew were dead, he believed that the official expedition records would yet be found under a stone cairn. With the assistance of his guides Ebierbing and Tookoolito, Hall gathered hundreds of pages of Inuit testimony. Among these materials are accounts of visits to Franklin's ships, and an encounter with a party of white men on the southern coast of King William Island near Washington Bay. In the 1990s, this testimony was extensively researched by David C. Woodman, and was the basis of two books, \"Unravelling the Franklin Mystery\" (1992) and \"Strangers Among Us\" (1995), in which he reconstructs the final months of the expedition.\n\nThe hope of finding these lost papers led Lieutenant Frederick Schwatka of the U.S. Army to organise an expedition to the island between 1878 and 1880. Traveling to Hudson Bay on the schooner \"Eothen\", Schwatka, assembling a team that included Inuit who had assisted Hall, continued north by foot and dog sled, interviewing Inuit, visiting known or likely sites of Franklin expedition remains, and wintering on King William Island. Although Schwatka failed to find the hoped-for papers, in a speech at a dinner given in his honour by the American Geographical Society in 1880, he noted that his expedition had made \"the longest sledge journey ever made both in regard to time and distance\" of 11 months and 4 days and , that it was the first Arctic expedition on which the whites relied entirely on the same diet as the Inuit, and that it established the loss of the Franklin records \"beyond all reasonable doubt\". The Schwatka expedition found no remnants of the expedition south of a place known as Starvation Cove on the Adelaide Peninsula. This was well north of Crozier's stated goal, the Back River, and several hundred miles away from the nearest Western outpost, on the Great Slave Lake. Woodman wrote of Inuit reports that between 1852 and 1858 Crozier and one other expedition member were seen in the Baker Lake area, about to the south, where in 1948 Farley Mowat found \"a very ancient cairn, not of normal Eskimo construction\" inside which were shreds of a hardwood box with dovetail joints.\n\n1848\n1850\n1851\n1852\n1854\n1855\n1857\n1869\n1875\n1878: Frederick Schwatka at King William Island\n\nIn June 1981, Owen Beattie, a professor of anthropology at the University of Alberta, began the 1845–48 Franklin Expedition Forensic Anthropology Project (FEFAP) when he and his team of researchers and field assistants travelled from Edmonton to King William Island, traversing the island's western coast as Franklin's men did 132 years before. FEFAP hoped to find artifacts and skeletal remains in order to use modern forensics to establish identities and causes of death among the lost 129.\n\nAlthough the trek found archaeological artifacts related to 19th-century Europeans and undisturbed disarticulated human remains, Beattie was disappointed that more remains were not found. Examining the bones of Franklin crewmen, he noted areas of pitting and scaling often found in cases of Vitamin C deficiency, the cause of scurvy. After returning to Edmonton, he compared notes from the survey with James Savelle, an Arctic archaeologist, and noticed skeletal patterns suggesting cannibalism. Seeking information about the Franklin crew's health and diet, he sent bone samples to the Alberta Soil and Feed Testing Laboratory for trace element analysis and assembled another team to visit King William Island. The analysis would find an unexpected level of 226 parts per million (ppm) of lead in the crewman's bones, which was 10 times higher than the control samples, taken from Inuit skeletons from the same geographic area, of 26–36 ppm.\n\nIn June 1982, a team made up of Beattie and three students (Walt Kowall, a graduate student in anthropology at the University of Alberta; Arne Carlson, an archaeology and geography student from Simon Fraser University in British Columbia; and Arsien Tungilik, an Inuk student and field assistant) was flown to the west coast of King William Island where they retraced some of the steps of McClintock in 1859 and Schwatka in 1878–79. Discoveries during this expedition included the remains of between six and fourteen men in the vicinity of McClintock's \"boat place\" and artifacts including a complete boot sole fitted with makeshift cleats for better traction.\n\nAfter returning to Edmonton in 1982 and learning of the lead-level findings from the 1981 expedition, Beattie struggled to find a cause. Possibilities included the lead solder used to seal the expedition's food tins, other food containers lined with lead foil, food colouring, tobacco products, pewter tableware, and lead-wicked candles. He came to suspect that the problems of lead poisoning compounded by the effects of scurvy could have been lethal for the Franklin crew. However, because skeletal lead might reflect lifetime exposure rather than exposure limited to the voyage, Beattie's theory could be tested only by forensic examination of preserved soft tissue as opposed to bone. Beattie decided to examine the graves of the buried crewmen on Beechey Island.\n\nAfter obtaining legal permission, Beattie's team visited Beechey Island in August 1984 to perform autopsies on the three crewmen buried there. They started with the first crew member to die, Leading Stoker John Torrington. After completing Torrington's autopsy and exhuming and briefly examining the body of John Hartnell, the team, pressed for time and threatened by the weather, returned to Edmonton with tissue and bone samples. Trace element analysis of Torrington's bones and hair indicated that the crewman \"would have suffered severe mental and physical problems caused by lead poisoning\". Although the autopsy indicated that pneumonia had been the ultimate cause of the crewman's death, lead poisoning was cited as a contributing factor.\n\nDuring the expedition, the team visited a place about north of the grave site to examine fragments of hundreds of food tins discarded by Franklin's men. Beattie noted that the seams were poorly soldered with lead, which had likely come in direct contact with the food. The release of findings from the 1984 expedition and the photo of Torrington, a 138-year-old corpse well preserved by permafrost in the tundra, led to wide media coverage and renewed interest in the lost Franklin expedition.\n\nSubsequent research has suggested that another potential source for the lead may have been the ships' fresh-water systems rather than the tinned food. K.T.H. Farrer argued that \"it is impossible to see how one could ingest from the canned food the amount of lead, 3.3 mg per day over eight months, required to raise the PbB to the level 80 μg/dL at which symptoms of lead poisoning begin to appear in adults and the suggestion that bone lead in adults could be 'swamped' by lead ingested from food over a period of a few months, or even three years, seems scarcely tenable.\" In addition, tinned food was in widespread use within the Royal Navy at that time and its use did not lead to any significant increase in lead poisoning elsewhere. However, and uniquely for this expedition only, the ships were fitted with converted railway locomotive engines for auxiliary propulsion which required an estimated one tonne of fresh water per hour when steaming. It is highly probable that it was for this reason that the ships were fitted with a unique water distillation system which, given the materials in use at the time, would have produced large quantities of water with a very high lead content. William Battersby has argued that this is a much more likely source for the high levels of lead observed in the remains of expedition members than the tinned food.\n\nA further survey of the graves was undertaken in 1986. A camera crew filmed the procedure, shown in \"Nova\"'s television documentary, \"Buried in Ice\" in 1988. Under difficult field conditions, Derek Notman, a radiologist and medical doctor from the University of Minnesota, and radiology technician Larry Anderson took many X-rays of the crewmen prior to autopsy. Barbara Schweger, an Arctic clothing specialist, and Roger Amy, a pathologist, assisted in the investigation.\n\nBeattie and his team had noticed that someone else had attempted to exhume Hartnell. In the effort, a pickaxe had damaged the wooden lid of his coffin, and the coffin plaque was missing. Research in Edmonton later showed that Sir Edward Belcher, commander of one of the Franklin rescue expeditions, had ordered the exhumation of Hartnell in October 1852, but was thwarted by the permafrost. A month later, Edward A. Inglefield, commander of another rescue expedition, succeeded with the exhumation and removed the coffin plaque.\n\nUnlike Hartnell's grave, the grave of Private William Braine was largely intact. When he was exhumed, the survey team saw signs that his burial had been hasty. His arms, body, and head had not been positioned carefully in the coffin, and one of his undershirts had been put on backwards. The coffin seemed too small for him; its lid had pressed down on his nose. A large copper plaque with his name and other personal data punched into it adorned his coffin lid.\n\nIn 1992, a team of archaeologists and forensic anthropologists identified a site, which they referenced as \"NgLj-2\", on the western shores of King William Island. The site matches the physical description of Leopold McClintock's \"boat place\". Excavations there uncovered nearly 400 bones and bone fragments, and physical artefacts ranging from pieces of clay pipes to buttons and brass fittings. Examination of these bones by Anne Keenleyside, the expedition's forensic scientist, showed elevated levels of lead and many cut-marks \"consistent with de-fleshing\". On the basis of this expedition, it has become generally accepted that at least some groups of Franklin's men resorted to cannibalism in their final distress. On 18 June 2015, a study accepted for publication in the \"International Journal of Osteoarchaeology\" concluded that in addition to the de-fleshing of bones, 35 \"bones had signs of breakage and 'pot polishing,' which occurs when the ends of bones heated in boiling water rub against the cooking pot they are placed in\", which \"typically occurs in the end stage of cannibalism, when starving people extract the marrow to eke out the last bit of calories and nutrition they can.\"\n\nIn 1992, Franklin author David C. Woodman, with the help of magnetometer expert Brad Nelson, organised \"Project Ootjoolik\" to search for the wreck reported by Inuit testimony to lie off the waters of Adelaide Peninsula. Enlisting both a National Research Council and a Canadian Forces patrol aircraft, each fitted with a sensitive magnetometer, a large search area to the west of Grant Point was surveyed from an elevation of . Over 60 strong magnetic targets were identified, of which five were deemed to have characteristics most congruent to those expected from Franklin's ships.\n\nIn 1993, Dr. Joe McInnis and Woodman organised an attempt to identify the priority targets from the year before. A chartered aircraft landed on the ice at three of the locations, a hole was drilled through the ice, and a small sector-scan sonar was used to image the sea bottom. However, due to ice conditions and uncertain navigation, it was not possible to exactly confirm the locations of the holes, and nothing was found although hitherto-unknown depths were found at the locations that were consistent with Inuit testimony of the wreck.\n\nIn 1994 Woodman organised and led a land search of the area from Richard Collinson Inlet to (modern) Victory Point in search of the buried \"vaults\" spoken of in the testimony of the contemporary Inuit hunter Supunger. A ten person team spent ten days in the search, sponsored by the Royal Canadian Geographical Society, and filmed by the CBC \"Focus North\". No trace of the vaults was found.\n\nIn 1995, an expedition was jointly organised by Woodman, George Hobson, and American adventurer Steven Trafton – with each party planning a separate search. Trafton's group travelled to the Clarence Islands to investigate Inuit stories of a \"white man's cairn\" there but found nothing. Dr. Hobson's party, accompanied by archaeologist Margaret Bertulli, investigated the \"summer camp\" found a few miles to the south of Cape Felix, where some minor Franklin relics were found. Woodman, with two companions, travelled south from Wall Bay to Victory Point and investigated all likely campsites along this coast, finding only some rusted cans at a previously unknown campsite near Cape Maria Louisa.\n\nIn 1997, a \"Franklin 150\" expedition was mounted by the Canadian film company Eco-Nova to use sonar to investigate more of the priority magnetic targets found in 1992. The senior archaeologist was Robert Grenier, assisted by Margaret Bertulli, and Woodman again acted as expedition historian and search coordinator. Operations were conducted from the Canadian Coast Guard icebreaker \"Laurier\". Approximately were surveyed, without result, near Kirkwall Island. When detached parties found Franklin relics, primarily copper sheeting and small items, on the beaches of islets to the north of O'Reilly Island the search was diverted to that area, but poor weather prevented significant survey work before the expedition ended. A documentary, \"Oceans of Mystery: Search for the Lost Fleet\", was produced by Eco-Nova about this expedition.\n\nThree expeditions were mounted by Woodman to continue the magnetometer mapping of the proposed wreck sites, a privately sponsored expedition in 2001, and the Irish-Canadian Franklin Search Expeditions of 2002 and 2004. These made use of sled-drawn magnetometers working on the sea ice and completed the unfinished survey of the northern (Kirkwall Island) search area (2001), and the entire southern O'Reilly Island area (2002 and 2004). All high-priority magnetic targets were identified by sonar through the ice as geological in origin. In 2002 and 2004, small Franklin artefacts and characteristic explorer tent sites were found on a small islet northeast of O'Reilly Island during shore searches.\nIn August 2008, a new search was announced, to be led by Robert Grenier, a senior archaeologist with Parks Canada. This search hoped to take advantage of the improved ice conditions, using side-scan sonar from a boat in open water. Grenier also hoped to draw from newly published Inuit testimony collected by oral historian Dorothy Harley Eber. Some of Eber's informants have placed the location of one of Franklin's ships in the vicinity of the Royal Geographical Society Island, an area not searched by previous expeditions. The search was to also include local Inuit historian Louie Kamookak, who has found other significant remains of the expedition and would represent the indigenous culture.\n\nA new search was announced by Parks Canada in August 2013.\n\nOn 1 September 2014, a larger search by a Canadian team under the banner of the \"Victoria Strait Expedition\" found two items on Hat Island in the Queen Maud Gulf near Nunavut's King William Island — a wooden object, possibly a plug for a deck hawse, the iron pipe through which the ship's chain cable would descend into the chain locker below; and part of a boat-launching davit bearing the stamps of two Royal Navy broad arrows.\n\nOn 9 September 2014, the expedition announced that on 7 September it had located one of Franklin's two ships. The ship is preserved in very good condition, with side-scan sonar picking up even the deck planking. The wreck lies at the bottom of the eastern portion of Queen Maud Gulf, west of O'Reilly Island. On 1 October at the House of Commons, Prime Minister Stephen Harper confirmed that the wreck is indeed HMS \"Erebus\".\n\nOn 12 September 2016, it was announced that the Arctic Research Foundation expedition had found the wreck of south of King William Island in Terror Bay, which is at , and in \"pristine\" condition.\n\nThe FEFAP field surveys, excavations and exhumations spanned more than 10 years. The results of this study from King William Island and Beechey Island artefacts and human remains showed that the Beechey Island crew had most likely died of pneumonia and perhaps tuberculosis, which was suggested by the evidence of Pott's disease discovered in Braine. Toxicological reports pointed to lead poisoning as a likely contributing factor. Blade cut marks found on bones from some of the crew were seen as signs of cannibalism. Evidence suggested that a combination of cold, starvation and disease including scurvy, pneumonia and tuberculosis, all made worse by lead poisoning, killed everyone in the Franklin party.\n\nMore recent chemical re-examination of bone and nail samples taken from Hartnell and other crew members has cast doubt on the role of lead poisoning. A 2013 study determined that the levels of lead present in the crew members' bones had been consistent during their lives, and that there was no isotopic difference between lead concentrated within older and younger bone materials. Had the crew been poisoned by lead from the solder used to seal the canned food or from the ships' water supplies, both the concentration of lead and its isotopic composition would have been expected to have \"spiked\" during their last few months. This interpretation was supported by a 2016 study that suggested the crew's ill health may in fact have been due to malnutrition, and specifically zinc deficiency, likely due to a lack of meat in their diet. This study used micro-X-ray fluorescence to map the levels of lead, copper and zinc in Hartnell's thumbnail over the final months of his life, and found that apart from during his last few weeks lead concentrations within Hartnell's body were within healthy limits. In contrast, levels of zinc were far lower than normal and indicated that Hartnell would have been suffering from chronic zinc deficiency, sufficient to have severely suppressed his immune system and left him highly vulnerable to a worsening of the tuberculosis with which he was already infected. In the last few weeks of his life, his illness would have caused his body to start breaking down bone, fat and muscle tissues, releasing lead previously stored there into his bloodstream and giving rise to the high lead levels noted in previous analysis of soft tissues and hair.\n\nIn 2017, Douglas Stenton, director for heritage in the Nunavut territory in north eastern Canada, suggested that four sets of European human remains found could possibly be women. He initially suspected that DNA testing would not offer up anything more, but to his surprise they registered that there was no 'Y' chromosomal element to the DNA. Stenton acknowledged that women were known to have served in the Royal Navy in the 17th, 18th and early 19th centuries, but he also pointed out that it could be that the DNA had simply degraded as further tests proved ambiguous. Stenton also stated that whilst the probability of four disguised women aboard the two ships was very, very low; he could not rule it out completely.\n\nFranklin's chosen passage down the west side of King William Island took \"Erebus\" and \"Terror\" into \"a ploughing train of ice ... [that] does not always clear during the short summers\", whereas the route along the island's east coast regularly clears in summer and was later used by Roald Amundsen in his successful navigation of the Northwest Passage. The Franklin expedition, locked in ice for two winters in Victoria Strait, was naval in nature and therefore not well-equipped or trained for land travel. Some of the crew members heading south from \"Erebus\" and \"Terror\" hauled many items not needed for Arctic survival. McClintock noted a large quantity of heavy goods in the lifeboat at the \"boat place\" and thought them \"a mere accumulation of dead weight, of little use, and very likely to break down the strength of the sledge-crews\".\n\n\nThe most meaningful outcome of the Franklin expedition was the mapping of several thousand miles of hitherto unsurveyed coastline by expeditions searching for Franklin's lost ships and crew. As Richard Cyriax noted, \"the loss of the expedition probably added much more [geographical] knowledge than its successful return would have done\". At the same time, it largely quelled the Admiralty's appetite for Arctic exploration. There was a gap of many years before the Nares expedition and Nares' declaration there was \"no thoroughfare\" to the North Pole; his words marked the end of the Royal Navy's historical involvement in Arctic exploration, the end of an era in which such exploits were widely seen by the British public as worthy expenditures of human effort and monetary resources. Given how difficult and risky it was for professional explorers to cross the Northwest passage, it would be impossible for the average merchant ships of the day to use this route for trade.\n\nAs a writer for \"The Athenaeum\" put it, \"We think that we can fairly make out the account between the cost and results of these Arctic Expeditions, and ask whether it is worth while to risk so much for that which is so difficult of attainment, and when attained, is so worthless.\" The navigation of the Northwest Passage in 1903–05 by Roald Amundsen with the \"Gjøa\" expedition effectively ended the centuries-long quest for the Northwest Passage.\n\nFor years after the loss of the Franklin Party, the Victorian media portrayed Franklin as a hero who led his men in the quest for the Northwest Passage. A statue of Franklin in his home town bears the inscription \"Sir John Franklin – Discoverer of the North West Passage\", and statues of Franklin outside the Athenaeum in London and in Tasmania bear similar inscriptions. Although the expedition's fate, including the possibility of cannibalism, was widely reported and debated, Franklin's standing with the Victorian public was undiminished. The expedition has been the subject of numerous works of non-fiction, including two books by Ken McGoogan, \"Fatal Passage\" and \"Lady Franklin's Revenge\".\n\nThe mystery surrounding Franklin's last expedition was the subject of a 2006 episode of the NOVA television series \"Arctic Passage\"; a 2007 television documentary, \"Franklin's Lost Expedition\", on \"Discovery HD Theatre\"; as well as a 2008 Canadian documentary, \"Passage\". In an episode of the 2009 ITV1 travel documentary series \"\", presenter Connolly and his crew visited Beechey Island, filmed the gravesite, and gave details of the Franklin expedition.\n\nIn memory of the lost expedition, one of Canada's Northwest Territories subdivisions was known as the District of Franklin. Including the high Arctic islands; this jurisdiction was abolished when the area was set off into the newly created Nunavut Territory on 1 April 1999.\n\nOn 29 October 2009, a special service of thanksgiving was held in the chapel at the Old Royal Naval College in Greenwich, to accompany the rededication of the national monument to Franklin there. The service also included the solemn re-interment of the remains of Lieutenant Henry Thomas Dundas Le Vesconte, the only remains ever repatriated to England, entombed within the monument in 1873. The following day, a group of polar authors went to London's Kensal Green Cemetery to pay their respects to the Arctic explorers buried there. Many other veterans of the searches for Franklin are buried there too, including Admiral Sir Horatio Thomas Austin, Admiral Sir George Back, Admiral Sir Edward Augustus Inglefield, Admiral Bedford Pim, and Admiral Sir John Ross. Franklin's wife Jane Griffin, Lady Franklin, is also interred at Kensal Green in the vault, and commemorated on a marble cross dedicated to her niece Sophia Cracroft.\n\nFrom the 1850s through to the present day, Franklin's last expedition inspired numerous literary works. Among the first was a play, \"The Frozen Deep\", written by Wilkie Collins with assistance and production by Charles Dickens. The play was performed for private audiences at Tavistock House early in 1857, as well as at the Royal Gallery of Illustration (including a command performance for Queen Victoria), and for the public at the Manchester Trade Union Hall. News of Franklin's death in 1859 inspired elegies, including one by Algernon Charles Swinburne.\n\nFictional treatments of the final Franklin expedition begin with Jules Verne's \"Journeys and Adventures of Captain Hatteras\", (1866), in which the novel's hero seeks to retrace Franklin's footsteps and discovers that the North Pole is dominated by an enormous volcano. Mark Twain briefly satirized the fate of the expedition and its subsequent searches in the beginning of the story \"Some Learned Fables for Good Old Boys and Girls\" (1875). The German novelist Sten Nadolny's \"The Discovery of Slowness\" (1983; English translation 1987) takes on the entirety of Franklin's life, touching only briefly on his last expedition. Other recent novelistic treatments of Franklin include William T. Vollmann's \"The Rifles\" (1994), John Wilson's \"North With Franklin: The Journals of James Fitzjames\" (1999); and Dan Simmons's \"The Terror\" (2007), which was developed as a 2018 AMC television series also called \"The Terror\". The expedition has also been the subject of a horror role-playing game supplement, \"The Walker in the Wastes\". Most recently, Clive Cussler's 2008 novel \"Arctic Drift\" incorporates the ordeal of the Franklin expedition as a central element in the story, and Richard Flanagan's \"Wanting\" (2009) deals with Franklin's deeds in both Tasmania and the Arctic. On 12 January 2012, BBC Radio 4 broadcast \"Erebus,\" a radio play based on the Franklin expedition by British poet Jo Shapcott. Kassandra Alvarado's 2013 novel \"The White Passage\" present a vaguely science-fiction take on an alternative history of the lost expedition.\n\nIn the visual arts, the loss of Franklin's expedition inspired a number of paintings in both the United States and Britain. In 1861, Frederic Edwin Church unveiled his great canvas \"The Icebergs\"; later that year, prior to taking it to England for exhibition, he added an image of a broken ship's mast in silent tribute to Franklin. In 1864, Sir Edwin Landseer's \"Man Proposes, God Disposes\" caused a stir at the annual Royal Academy exhibition; its depiction of two polar bears, one chewing on a tattered ship's ensign, the other gnawing on a human ribcage, was seen at the time as in poor taste, but has remained one of the most powerful imaginings of the expedition's final fate. The expedition also inspired numerous popular engravings and illustrations, along with many panoramas, dioramas, and magic lantern shows.\n\nFranklin's last expedition also inspired a great deal of music, beginning with the ballad \"Lady Franklin's Lament\" (also known as \"Lord Franklin\"), which originated in the 1850s and has been recorded by dozens of artists, among them Martin Carthy, Pentangle, Sinéad O'Connor, and The Pearlfishers. The British folk metal band Alestorm's song \"Magnetic North\" is dedicated to the expedition. Other Franklin-inspired songs include Fairport Convention's \"I'm Already There\", and James Taylor's \"Frozen Man\" (based on Beattie's photographs of John Torrington). Canadian composer Henry Kucharzyk's 1997 \"Terror and Erebus (A Lament for Franklin)\" is an oratorio for solo baritone and chamber ensemble. The first operatic treatment of the story is \"Terror & Erebus\", a chamber opera for six singers and percussion quartet by Canadian composer Cecilia Livingston, to premiere in 2019. In 2009, traditional Irish composer and Sean Nós singer, Lorcán Mac Mathúna, working with composers Simon O Connor and Daire Bracken, composed a song cycle named \"Tásc is Tuairisc\" (Account and Death Notice) based on the expedition. A minimalist 30 minute cycle for voice, piano, and fiddle, in Irish, it tracks an individual's descent into madness and isolation. Two songs from the cycle, \"Farraigí an Tuaiscirt\" and \"Cladach an Bháis\" were released on the 2015 album \"Preab Meadar\".\n\nThe influence of the Franklin expedition on Canadian literature and culture has been especially significant. Among the best-known modern Franklin ballads is \"Northwest Passage\" by the late Ontario folksinger Stan Rogers (1981), which has been referred to as the unofficial Canadian national anthem. The distinguished Canadian novelist Margaret Atwood has also spoken of Franklin's expedition as a sort of national myth of Canada, remarking that \"In every culture many stories are told, (but) only some are told and retold, and these stories bear examining ... in Canadian literature, one such story is the Franklin expedition.\" Notable treatments by Canadian poets include a verse play for radio, \"Terror and Erebus\" which was commissioned from Gwendolyn MacEwen, broadcast by CBC Radio (10 January 1965) and subsequently published in her collection \"Afterworlds\" (1987); and David Solway's verse cycle, \"Franklin's Passage\" (2003). The events have also featured prominently in Canadian novels, including Mordecai Richler's \"Solomon Gursky Was Here\" (1989) and Dominique Fortier's 2008 French language novel, \"Du bon usage des étoiles\", which creatively considers the Franklin expedition from a variety of perspectives and genres and was both shortlisted and a finalist for several literary awards in Canada (2009 Governor General's Awards). Sheila Fischman's translation of Fortier's novel, \"On the Proper Use of Stars\", was shortlisted for the 2010 Governor General's Awards for French to English Translation. Irish-Canadian writer Ed O'Loughlin's novel \"Minds of Winter\" was shortlisted for the 2017 Giller Prize.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30966939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30966939", "title": "Genkai shūraku", "text": "Genkai shūraku\n\nSuch villages are generally found in mountain villages and outlying islands. Villages facing this sort of situation have seen the functions of a community - local government autonomy, maintaining of roads, and ceremonial occasions - rapidly declining, and are facing losing these altogether.\n\nAkira Ōno, a professor of emeritus at Nagano University first proposed the concept in 1991 while teaching humanities at Kōchi University.\n\nA number of surveys have been conducted to explore the phenomenon. In 2005 the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries commissioned a committee on rural development to do a survey on the true state of genkai shuraku (March 2006). According to the results, there were an estimated 1403 villages that were found to be in danger. These results were based on census results in agricultural villages. In April 2006, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism commissioned a survey on the state of depopulating areas. The report stated that, of the 62,273 villages that were visited, 775 of them were depopulating.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21653069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21653069", "title": "Geology of Azerbaijan", "text": "Geology of Azerbaijan\n\nThe Geology of Azerbaijan forms a constituent geological part of the Alpine fold belt. Sedimentary deposits embracing the southwestern parts of the Major and Minor Caucasus, including the intermountain Kur River trough, as well as the Mid- and South Caspian basins consist of diversity fold systems. The Earth's crust thickness in Azerbaijan varies in the range from 38 to 55 km. Its maximum thickness is observed in the Minor Caucasus area, while its minimum thickness is typical for the Talysh foothills. Geological setting of the area consists of sedimentary, volcanic-sedimentary, volcanic and terrestrial deposits embracing almost entire stratigraphic range beginning from Pre-Cambrian through Holocene time.\n\nAzerbaijan is rich of fuel ore and non-ore minerals. Ore and non-ore minerals are spread mostly in mountainous territories (Small and Great Caucasus), fossil fuels in plain territories and South Caspian basin. In its turn, it caused development of ore industry in west and oil-gas industry in east.\n\nFossil-fuel resources in Azerbaijan are presented by oil, gas, oil shale, peat etc. The petroleum industry is the most important sector of the local economy. Oil is produced from both onshore and Caspian offshore oilfields. Azerbaijan (particularly Absheron Peninsula) is referred to as the world's most ancient oil producing region. Even during 7th–6th centuries BC oil had been extracted within the Absheron Peninsula and exported to many different countries.\nAs of 1985 about 1.2B tons of crude oil has been produced in Azerbaijan (25% of which from offshore oilfields).\n\nMetalliferous ores (magnetite and hematite) in Azerbaijan fall into four generic classes: magmatic segregation, skarn-magnetite (contact-metasomatic), hydrothermal- metasomatic and sedimentary ones.\n\nNon-metallic mineral resources play a significant role in Azerbaijan's total balance of row material resources. That group of row materials includes rock salt, gypsum, anhydrite, alum, bentonite clay, construction materials, pyrite, borate, gemstones (precious and semi-precious stone), dolomite, Iceland spar, etc.\n\nUnderground water is considered to be one of the most important natural resources in Azerbaijan. Due to the differences in chemical composition, they fall into several types, such as service water, drinkable, medical waters, and waters used in various industrial sectors.\n\nIt is estimated that 300 of the planet's estimated 700 mud volcanoes sit in Eastern Azerbaijan and the Caspian Sea.\n\nMud volcanoes are pervasive within Azerbaijan. In local language, mud volcanoes are also known as \"pilpila\", \"yanardag\", \"bozdagh\", \"ahtarma\", \"gaynarja\" etc. There are over 220 mud volcanoes in Azerbaijan (Absheron Peninsula, Gobustan, southeast Shirvan plain, Samur-Davachi plain terrane, both Absheron and Baku Archipelago. The biggest are Galmas, Toragay, Big Kanizadag etc. Most of them have a cone shape. Their height varies in the range from 20 to 400m, whereas base diameter may vary from 100 to 4500m.\n\nIn 2001, one mud volcano 15 kilometers from Baku made world headlines when it suddenly started spewing flames 15 meters high.\n\nThe first seismic station in Azerbaijan was established soon after 1902 in Baku by E. Nobel. Afterwards seismic stations were set in different areas in Azerbaijan (Balakhany, Zurnabd, Shamakhi, Ganja, Nakhchivan, Lankaran, Chilov Island, and Mingechevir).\n\nAzerbaijan saw devastating earthquakes since the ancient times. The first reports on \"an overall devastating event that destroyed all towns and villages\" is dated back to 427 AD. In 1139 AD, a devastating earthquake with the magnitude of IX took place in Azerbaijan. The town of Ganja was destroyed completely and gross casualties were reported. Goygol Lake was generated as a result of that same earthquake.\nIn the AD 19th century, Shamahy town suffered several devastating earthquakes. Several of them that occurred in 1856, 1861, and 1872 and 1902 that are considered to be the strongest and most devastating were estimated to have an intensity of VII–X.\n\n"}
{"id": "59013840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59013840", "title": "Geology of Costa Rica", "text": "Geology of Costa Rica\n\nThe geology of Costa Rica is part of the Panama Microplate, which is slowly moving north relative to the stable Caribbean Plate.\n\nIn the late Cretaceous, an oceanic trench or backarc system formed in connection with a subduction zone, situated where the Isthmus of Panama is now located. Into the early Paleogene, deep sea, open ocean sediments and basalt lava accumulated in the backarc. Volcanic activity was intense in the Cretaceous, Paleocene and Eocene. The volcanic arc that built up during the period overthrust onto the southern margin of North America.\n\nDuring the Oligocene, the offshore Pacific Plate fragmented into the Cocos Plate and Nazca Plate, divided by the east-west Colon spreading ridge. The tectonics of Costa Rica are more complicated because the Cocos Plate subdivided into two blocks separated by the Costa Rica Fracture Zone (running northeast onto land), with the northern block being subducted. Submarine canyons have been used to infer the path of the Panama Fracture Zone running along the coast creating wrench faults. On the Osa Peninsula, the Nicoya Complex preserves oceanic crust with basaltic lava, dolerite, gabbro, limestone, chert and argillite, obducted onto land before the Oligocene and then rearranged by Miocene wrench faults.\n\nIn the Neogene the low angle subduction of the Cocos Plate led to volcanism in the now extinct Cordillera de Aguacate chain in the center of the country. The Valle Central basin formed as volcanism shifted northeastward in the Quaternary. In the Pleistocene, calderas ejected huge quantities of silica-rich ash, filling the Valle Central basin, affecting the Tarcoles Gorge and generating the Orotina debris fan at the coast. Streams rearranged and flowed more toward the Pacific, downcutting existing channels.\n\nIn the past two million years, Costa Rican volcanoes have erupted andesite, rhyolite and dacite with geochemical patterns that suggest the magma may have come from the melting of metamorphosed basalt.\n\nMarine geologists have found mound-like structure offshore due to subduction related fluid venting. A lack of chlorine suggests a freshwater origin.\n"}
{"id": "24573127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24573127", "title": "Indawgyi Lake Wildlife Sanctuary", "text": "Indawgyi Lake Wildlife Sanctuary\n\nIndawgyi Lake Wildlife Sanctuary is a wildlife reserve of Burma. It is located in Mohnyin Township in Kachin State. It occupies an area of and was established in 1999. The Ministry of Forestry of Myanmar Government announced Indawgyi Lake with surface area and five surrounding forest reserves with the area of , totaling as “Inndawgyi Lake Sanctuary” with the Notification No (39/2004) dated 9-8-2004; On 18 December 2003, it was recognized as ASEAN Heritage Park. The region is home to rare bird species and other wild animals including wild elephants, bantengs and gaurs, rare gibbon species and forest birds.\n\nThe ring-road of Indawgyi consists of \n\n"}
{"id": "28940345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28940345", "title": "International rankings of Cameroon", "text": "International rankings of Cameroon\n\nThese are the international rankings of Cameroon\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36608994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36608994", "title": "Jean-Baptiste Benoît Eyriès", "text": "Jean-Baptiste Benoît Eyriès\n\nJean-Baptiste Benoît Eyriès (; 24 June 176713 June 1846) was a French geographer, author and translator, best remembered in the English speaking world for his translation of German ghost stories \"Fantasmagoriana\", published anonymously in 1812, which inspired Mary Shelley and John William Polidori to write \"Frankenstein\" and \"The Vampyre\" respectively. He was one of the founding members of the Société de Géographie, a member of the Société Asiatique, admitted to the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres, awarded the Legion of Honour, elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1841, and has a street named after him in Le Havre and a mountain near Humboldt Bay.\n\nBorn in Marseille on 24 June 1767, the son of Jacques-Joseph Eyriès, a \"lieutenant de frégates du roi\" (\"lieutenant of the king's frigates\"), and Jeanne-Françoise Deluy (1748–1826). He moved to Le Havre in 1772 when his father was promoted to \"commandant de la Marine\" (\"commander of the Navy\"), and went to study at the College of Juilly. Eyriès began to travel to England, Germany, Sweden and Denmark to learn their languages and study botany and mineralogy, and through it grew to love geography and travel. Returning to Le Havre, he began working in the armaments trade, including commercial expeditions to various parts of the world, while taking care of a natural history museum there. In 1794 he went to Paris to deliver his father, who had been detained as a suspect in the new Republic, moving there the following year to devote himself to his studies, where he attended lectures by Antoine Laurent de Jussieu and Georges Cuvier, and started collecting old travel books.\n\nHe was given a mission in 1804–1805 by Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord and Napoleon to travel to Germany and rally the French emigrants there, chosen for his knowledge of the country and language and his discretion. He used the opportunity to continue his collection, but turned down the title \"conseiller d’État\" (\"councillor of the State\") to keep his independence, allowing him to devote himself entirely to geography and botany, and return to Paris to settle. As a speaker of nine languages, he translated many articles and books from German, English and Scandinavian languages into French, mostly on travel and geography, but also including \"Fantasmagoriana\" from a selection of German ghost stories, which he published anonymously in 1812. From that year he became one of the drafters of the \"Biographie Universelle\" under editor Joseph François Michaud, writing many articles for it up until his death. His quality as a translator and extensive scientific knowledge earned him the friendship and admiration of many respected scientists, notably including Alexander von Humboldt and Conrad Malte-Brun, the latter of whom he joined in 1819 to continue the publication of \"Nouvelles Annales des Voyages, de la Géographie et de l’Histoire\", a journal dedicated to the advancement of the earth sciences.\n\nIn 1821 he became one of the 217 founding members of the world's first geographical society, the Société de Géographie, remaining one of the most active and on its central committee until his death; he was named honorary president, a prestigious title given to the likes of Pierre-Simon Laplace, Georges Cuvier, Alexander von Humboldt and François-René de Chateaubriand. He was a recognised geographer, and Jules Dumont d'Urville named a mountain \"Eyriès\" after him near Humboldt Bay during his voyage on the \"Astrolabe\". He was admitted to the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres in 1839, and was awarded the Legion of Honour in 1844.\n\nEyriès suffered a stroke in 1844, rendering him incapable of further work, and died on 13 June 1846 at the house of his brother Alexandre Eyriès, the mayor of Graville near Le Havre, and was buried in the cemetery of Graville priory, with an inscription on his tombstone after Edme François Jomard. He left a library of about 20,000 volumes collected throughout his life, which reflect his interest in rare and old works on travel and geography, and included almost everything written on Normandy, Le Havre and Provence, with rare maps from the German and Scandinavian countries, some of which are not even in the Bibliothèque nationale de France. Many of these books, and some of his manuscripts, remain as of 2006 in the municipal library of Le Havre, and a street \"Rue Jean Baptiste Eyries\" was named after him in the city. Eyriès was remembered by his contemporaries for his erudition, selfless dedication, prodigious memory, critical thinking and modesty, and Pierre Larousse wrote of him: \"Many people still remember seeing a little old man in antiquated clothes, wearing a wide-brimmed hat and reading along the waterfront: that was Eyriès, who worked to fill his vast memory and his rich library at the same time.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44848572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44848572", "title": "Karna Lidmar-Bergström", "text": "Karna Lidmar-Bergström\n\nKarna Lidmar-Bergström (born 1940) is a Swedish geologist and geomorphologist known for her study of Pre-Quaternary landforms in Sweden and Norway. In 2004 she was elected into the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "12595264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12595264", "title": "Landscape design software", "text": "Landscape design software\n\nLandscape design software is used by landscape architects, landscape designers and garden designers to create planting, softworks, groundworks and hardworks (see definitions below) plans before constructing a landscape.\n\nThere are two levels of software available, amateur and professional. The former is usually aimed at simple visualisation of a garden design whilst the latter provides tools that allow stylistic representations of a design to be accurately labelled and dimensioned for contractors to interpret and land authorities or local government to sight and approve or otherwise. Since the advent of the personal computer, several software packages have come into existence the main professional software being CS Design Software's CS Artisan, Idea Spectrum's Realtime Landscaping Architect, LANDWorksCAD, Keysoft Solutions' KeySCAPE LandCADD, Landmark, PRO Landscape, Structure Studio's VizTerra, VisionScape's VirtualProperty Architect, Visual Impact's Earthscapes, and Asuni's Lands Design.\n\nProfessional landscape design software requires detailed information to be output for contract documentation, which will usually constitute drawings, specifications and reports (schedules/bills of quantity). The more sophisticated landscape design software solutions automate the process of generating reports (schedules/bills of quantity) from intelligent data in the drawing; such intelligence is usually contained within labels (annotations) which include, in the case of planting, automatic calculation routines to determine the number of individual plants based on plant spacings (centres) per area or length. When labelled areas or lengths are modified (stretched or shrunk), associated labels are recalculated at the same time as reports (schedules/bills of quantity) contained in or associated with the same drawing.\n\nBelow is a list of some features provided by such software:\n\n"}
{"id": "37122963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37122963", "title": "List of Turkish place names", "text": "List of Turkish place names\n\nSome well-known place names in modern Turkey are derived from the Greek or Latin languages.\n"}
{"id": "48664295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48664295", "title": "List of World Heritage sites in South America", "text": "List of World Heritage sites in South America\n\nThis is a list of UNESCO World Heritage sites in South America.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25941268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25941268", "title": "List of countries and territories by maritime boundaries", "text": "List of countries and territories by maritime boundaries\n\nThis is a list of countries and territories by maritime boundaries with other countries and territories. The list encompasses adjacent maritime nations and territories with a special focus on the boundaries or borders which distinguish them.\n\nFor purposes of this list, \"maritime boundary\" includes boundaries that are recognized by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which includes boundaries of territorial waters, contiguous zones, and exclusive economic zones. However, it does not include lake or river boundaries. \"Potential\" maritime boundaries are included; that is, the lack of a treaty or other agreement defining the exact location of the maritime boundary does not exclude the boundary from the list.\n\nIn numbering maritime boundaries, three separate figures are included for each country and territory. The first number is the total number of distinct maritime boundaries that the country or territory shares with other countries and territories. If the country shares two or more maritime boundaries with the same country or territory and the boundaries are unconnected, the boundaries are counted separately. The second number is the total number of distinct countries or territories that the country or territory borders. In this instance, if the country or territory shares two or more maritime boundaries with the same country or territory and the boundaries are unconnected, the boundaries are only counted once. The final number is the total number of unique sovereign states that the country or territory shares a maritime boundary with.\n\nFootnotes are provided to provide clarity regarding the status of certain countries and territories.\nStates with a dagger () are landlocked states.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26470024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26470024", "title": "List of countries by home ownership rate", "text": "List of countries by home ownership rate\n\nThis is a list of countries by home ownership rate, the ratio of owner-occupied units to total residential units in a specified area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2921496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2921496", "title": "List of largest lakes of Europe", "text": "List of largest lakes of Europe\n\nThis is a list of lakes of Europe with an average area greater than 100 km². Some smaller lakes may be missing from the list.\n\nRanking:\nReservoirs and smaller sub-basins that are already counted are not ranked.\n\n"}
{"id": "7960855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7960855", "title": "List of municipalities in Canary Islands", "text": "List of municipalities in Canary Islands\n\nThis is a list of all the municipalities in the autonomous community of the Canary Islands, Spain.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe rest of the islets are uninhabited, except La Graciosa, which contains a hamlet, Caleta de Sebo.\n\n"}
{"id": "27828821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27828821", "title": "List of post-nominal letters (Ireland)", "text": "List of post-nominal letters (Ireland)\n\nThis is a list of post-nominal letters given in Ireland. Most are used by custom rather than arising from any legislation.\n"}
{"id": "48571132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48571132", "title": "List of recipients of the W. S. Bruce Medal", "text": "List of recipients of the W. S. Bruce Medal\n\nThis is a list of recipients of the W. S. Bruce Medal. \n\nEstablished in 1923, the medal is awarded quinquennially for notable contributions to \"Zoology, Botany, Geology, Meteorology, Oceanography or Geography, where new knowledge has been gained through a personal visit to polar regions.\" and is open to researchers of all nationalities, preferably of Scottish birth or origin, and preferably at the outset of their careers. It commemorates the work of Dr William Spiers Bruce, an explorer and scientific investigator in polar regions.\n\nThe award is made and administered by the Royal Scottish Geographical Society in conjunction with\nthe Royal Society of Edinburgh and the Royal Physical Society of Edinburgh. \n\nSource: Royal Society of Edinburgh\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51420118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51420118", "title": "List of squares in Amsterdam", "text": "List of squares in Amsterdam\n\nThere are over eighty squares or \"pleins\" in Amsterdam, Netherlands. This is a list of the most notable ones.\n\nDam Square, also known as the Dam it is the main town square and considered to be the very center of the city. On the west edge of the square is the Royal Palace. It is roughly rectangular in shape, and stretches about 200 meters from west to east and about 100 meters from north to south. It links the streets Damrak and Rokin, which run along the original course of the Amstel River from Centraal Station to Muntplein (Mint Square) and the Munttoren (Mint Tower). The Dam also marks the endpoint of the other well-traveled streets Nieuwendijk, Kalverstraat and Damstraat. A short distance beyond the northeast corner lies the main red-light district: de Wallen.\n\nThe National Monument, a white stone pillar designed by J.J.P. Oud and erected in 1956 to memorialize the victims of World War II, dominates the opposite side of the square. Also overlooking the plaza are the NH Grand Hotel Krasnapolsky and the upscale department store De Bijenkorf. These various attractions have turned the Dam into a tourist zone.\n\nDijkgraafplein is located in Amsterdam-Osdorp at the end of Tussen Meer in the neighborhood that is now known as 'De Sharpen'. It is named after the office of dijkgraaf (the chairman of a waterboard) in 1962.\n\nKoningsplein is located between the Singel and Herengracht canals. It has become a meeting place for the local community.\n\nLeidseplein is located in the southwest of the Grachtengordel district immediately northeast of the Singelgracht canal. It is situated on the crossroads of the Weteringschans, the Marnixstraat, and the Leidsestraat. It is one of the busiest centres for nightlife in the city. Historically, the square was the end of the road from Leiden, and served as a parking lot for horse-drawn traffic. Today, modern traffic travels through the square and side streets are packed with restaurants and nightclubs. The Stadsschouwburg, a theater, is the most notable architectural landmark on the square, and the American Hotel is close by.\n\nMarie Heinekenplein is popularly known as Heinekenplein. This circle-shaped square is used for various events, such as a book market and an open-air cinema. It was constructed in the early 1990s. It lies just outside the city centre, in the neighbourhood of De Pijp, along the street Ferdinand Bolstraat. The street Quellijnstraat runs along the southern edge of the square. Tram lines 16 and 24 have a stop near the square.\n\nAlong the Marie Heinekenplein are a number of bars and cafés. The square is lined with café terraces. Between the square and the Stadhouderskade street is the former Heineken brewery, now a popular tourist attraction known as the Heineken Experience. Along the northern side of the square is a modern apartment building incorporating a supermarket and other shops at ground level. One of the three restaurants of renowned Chinese restaurant chain Nam Kee is located along the square.\n\nPrior to 1970, Markenplein was named \"het oude Markenpleintje\" and before World War II it used to be a part of the Jewish district of Amsterdam. The name Markenplein symbolizes the bond between the new neighborhood and the old Jewish neighborhood.\n\nThe pavement pattern was designed by the American artist Sol LeWitt.\n\nThe square houses the entrance of the Netherlands Film and Television Academy, the parking garage Markenhoven and the Grand Cafe Allure.\n\nMuntplein, often referred to simply as the \"Munt\", is in fact a bridge — the widest bridge in Amsterdam — which crosses the Singel canal at the point where it flows into the Amstel river. The square is a bustling intersection of six streets. It forms the southern end of the Kalverstraat shopping street and the major street Rokin. The eastern end of the floating flower market (Bloemenmarkt) along the Singel canal is directly south of the square.\n\nMuntplein is named after the Munttoren (or simply Munt) tower which stands on this square.\n\nMuseumplein is located in the Museumkwartier neighbourhood, beside three major museums – the Rijksmuseum, Van Gogh Museum, and Stedelijk Museum – and the concert hall Concertgebouw.\n\nNieuwmarkt (Dutch for \"New Market\" is located in Amsterdam's Chinatown, next to the De Wallen (Red Light District). It is dominated by a building known as the Waag. There are over 20 cafés and coffeeshops facing the square. There is a daily market on the square, as well as an organic food market on Saturdays and a market for antiques and books on Sundays in the summer months.\n\nNoordermarkt is located in the Jordaan neighborhood. It is lined by cafés and restaurants. Markets are held on the square every Monday. On Saturdays, a popular organic farmer's market is held on the square. On Mondays a market (mainly for textiles) is also held in the adjacent Westerstraat street.\n\nOudekerksplein (\"Old Church's Square\") marks the eastern end of the Red Light District and is wedged between the Warmoesstraat street and Oudezijds Voorburgwal canal. From the square, the Oudekerksburg bridge crosses the Oudezijds Voorburgwal canal and continues eastwards, through the Oudekennissteeg and Molensteeg alleys, towards the Oudezijds Achterburgwal and Zeedijk.\n\nOriginally the Oudekerksplein was a graveyard. In 1655, the graveyard was cleared and moved to a new location beyond the city limits, creating the present square.\n\nRembrandtplein (Rembrandt Square) is named after the famous painter Rembrandt van Rijn who owned a house nearby from 1639 to 1656.\n\nThe Spui was originally a body of water that formed the southern limit of the city until the 1420s, when the Singel canal was dug as an outer moat around the city. In 1882 the Spui was filled in and became the square that we know today. In 1996 the square was renovated and is now largely car-free.\n\nWaterlooplein is located near the Amstel river. The daily flea market on the square is popular with tourists. The Stopera city hall and opera building and the Mozes en Aäronkerk church are at Waterlooplein. The area of Amsterdam that includes Waterlooplein is also called Groot Waterloo district.\n\nThe following is a more comprehensive list:\n\nAdam Smithplein, Alexanderplein, Amstelveld, Anton de Komplein, August Allebéplein, Barentzplein, Bellamyplein, Beursplein, Bijlmerplein, Boerhaaveplein, Brink, Concertgebouwplein, Dam Square, Emmaplein, Enkhuizerplein, Europaplein, Frederiksplein, Gerard Douplein, H.M. van Randwijkplantsoen, Haarlemmerplein, Hekelveld, Hendrik Jonkerplein, Henriëtte Ronnerplein, Hoofddorpplein, Hugo de Grootplein, Hygieaplein, Jacob Marisplein, Johannes Vermeerplein, Johnny Jordaanplein, Jonas Daniël Meijerplein, Julianaplein, Kadijksplein, Kattenburgerplein, Kleine-Gartmanplantsoen, Koekoeksplein, Koningsplein, Leidseplein, Markenplein, Max Euweplein, Meerhuizenplein, Mercatorplein, Merwedeplein, Minervaplein, Mr. Visserplein, Muntplein, Museumplein, Muzenplein, Nassauplein, Nieuwezijds Kolk, Nieuwmarkt, Noordermarkt, Olympiaplein, Oosterspoorplein, Osdorpplein, Oudekerksplein, Professor Tulpplein, Rapenburgerplein, Rembrandtplein, Roelof Hartplein, Scheldeplein, Sierplein, Smaragdplein, Spaarndammerplantsoen, Spui, Stadionplein, Stationsplein, Surinameplein, Thérèse Schwartzeplein, Thomas R. Malthusstraat, Thorbeckeplein, Valeriusplein, Van Limburg Stirumplein, Van Tuyll van Serooskerkenplein, Victorieplein, Waterlooplein, Weesperplein, Westermarkt, Weteringplantsoen, Wg-plein, Zaandammerplein, Zonneplein, and Zwanenplein.\n\n"}
{"id": "43287470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43287470", "title": "List of years in Fiji", "text": "List of years in Fiji\n\nThis is a list of years in Fiji.\n\n"}
{"id": "215669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215669", "title": "MacGillycuddy's Reeks", "text": "MacGillycuddy's Reeks\n\nMacGillycuddy's Reeks () is a sandstone and siltstone mountain range in County Kerry, Ireland. Stretching , from the Gap of Dunloe in the east, to Glencar in the west, the Reeks is Ireland's highest mountain range, and includes most of the highest peaks and sharpest ridges in Ireland, and the only peaks on the island that are over in height.\n\nMacGillycuddy's Reeks are described as being composed of sandstone particles of various sizes which are collectively known as \"Old Red Sandstone\". The rocks date from the Upper Devonian period (310–450 million years ago) when Ireland was in a hot equatorial setting. During this 60 million year period, Ireland was the site of a major basin, known as the Munster basin, and Cork and Kerry were effectively a large alluvial floodplain. Chemical oxidation stained the material with a purple–reddish colour (and green in places from chlorination), still visible today. There are virtually no fossils in \"Old Red Sandstone\". The composition of \"Old Red Sandstone\" is variable and contains quartz stones, mudstones, siltstones, and sandstone particles (boulders of conglomerate rock containing quartz pebbles are visible throughout the range). The Reeks were also subject to significant glaciation which led to fracturing of the rock, and resulted in deep corries (e.g. the \"Eagle's Nest\"), U-shaped valleys (e.g. Lough Coomloughra), and sharp arêtes and ridges (e.g. the \"Beenkeragh Ridge\").\n\nMacGillycuddy's Reeks are variously described as consisting of two main sections, that contain all of its 3,000 ft peaks:\n\nThe Eastern Reeks meet the Coomloughea Reeks at the col of the \"Devils's Ladder\", a popular ascent route for Carrauntoohil.\n\nMacGillycuddy's Reeks contains the three peaks in Ireland which are over in height, namely: Carrauntoohil, Ireland's highest mountain at , followed by Beenkeragh at and Caher at .\n\nThe range contains eleven of the fourteen peaks in Ireland that are over in height, and meet the Vandeleur-Lynam classification of a mountain—peaks with prominence over . All but one of these eleven 3,000 ft peeks, namely Cnoc an Chuillinn East Top, are amongst the list of thirteen Irish Furths—peaks which meet the Scottish Mountaineering Club's criteria for a Munro, and they are therefore also known as \"Irish Munros\".\n\nThere are 29 peaks in the range above in height. The range contains 14 Irish Hewitts (height above 2,000 ft and prominence above 30 metres), and 16 Irish Arderins (height above 500 metres and prominence above 30 metres). The range is also known for its sharp aretes, including The Bones arete, more famously known as the \"Beenkeragh Ridge\", and The Big Gun arete.\n\nA feature of the range is the modest topographic prominence, also known as \"relative height\" or \"drop\", of many of its peaks. Only two of the eleven Reeks over 3,000 ft meet the Marilyn classification of a mountain (prominence above 150 metres), namely, Carrauntoohil and Cnoc na Péiste. The only Reek that meets the P600 classification (prominence above 600 metres), is Carrauntoohil itself. The combination of high peaks and low prominence, means the ridges between the peaks are at a sustained height (e.g. why the prominence is so modest), which has contributed to the popularity of ridge walking in the Reeks, particularly, the \"Coomloughra Horseshoe\", and the \"MacGillycuddy's Reeks Ridge Walk\", and the term, \"Ireland's highest mountain range\".\n\nThe entire range is held in private ownership, both in individually owned freehold parcels in the lower reaches and in commonly owned, open upland zones (‘commonage’). A State-sponsored report into access for the range in December 2013 titled \"MacGillycuddy Reeks Mountain Access Development Assessment\" (also called the Mountain Access Project, or MAP), mapped the complex network of land titles. Unlike many other national mountain ranges, the MacGillycuddy's Reeks are not part of a national park or a trust structure.\n\nThe private ownership has led to issues around the upkeep of popular paths in the Reeks, most particularly the erosion of the \"Devil's Ladder\" path, which is used to summit Carrauntoohil; and various car-parks and bridges used by climbers. The 2013 MAP report noted the importance of safety in light of the increasing climbers and walkers to the Reeks. The MAP report stated that Kerry Mountain Rescue (\"KMR\") logged 17 fatalities on the Reeks between 1996 and 2000, or just over 1 fatality per annum, but since 2000, KMR had been logging approximately 2 fatalities per annum.\n\nThe name of the range is , which is shortened in the Irish form to , meaning \"The Black Stacks\". However, in the English form, the name is translated as \"MacGillycuddy's Reeks\" (the translation used in \"Gasaitéar na hÉireann\"). The English name is sometimes incorrectly written as \"The MacGillycuddy's Reeks\", \"MacGillycuddy Reeks\", or \"Macgillycuddy's Reeks\".\n\nThe MacGillycuddy () were a sept, or branch, of the O'Sullivan Moore clan. The MacGillycuddy was one of the few Gaelic chieftains to have his lands restored after the Cromwellian confiscations, a circumstance which helps to explain why the name has survived to this day. The MacGillycuddy family tomb is at Kilgobnet, between the mountains and Killorglin. The clan chief, McGillycuddy of the Reeks, owned land in this part of Munster until the end of the 20th century. The word \"reek\" is a Hiberno-English version of the English word \"rick\", meaning a stack.\n\nJim Ryan's 2006 book on the Reeks, \"Carrauntoohil and MacGillycuddy's Reeks: A Walking Guide to Ireland's Highest Mountains\", stated that there were 25,000 annual visitors to the Reeks. The 2013 MAP report quoted Ryan's figures, which were cited in the MAP's \"Terms of Reference\", but stated that: \"The Reeks are accessed by at least 25,000 recreational users per annum. It is highly likely that the numbers are a factor of 4 times higher based on observation of the year-round level of usage – but data is required to ascertain the visitor numbers.\" \n\nThe most common reason for visiting the Reeks is to climb Ireland's highest mountain, Carrauntoohil. The popular route starts from Cronin's Yard () and enters the Hag's Glen to climb the \"Devil's Ladder\" (the col between Carrauntoohil and Cnoc na Toinne), from which the summit is accessed. A more challenging route is via the \"Hag's Tooth Ridge\" which circles the \"Eagle's Nest\", and takes in Beenkeragh, and the \"Beenkeragh Ridge\".\n\nMacGillycuddy's Reeks is particularly regarded for the quality of its ridge walking routes, with the 6–8 hour 15–kilometre \"Coomloughra Horseshoe\", that circles Lough Coomloughra, considered \"one of Ireland’s classic ridge walks\", which takes in all three of Ireland's 1,000 metre peaks, namely, Carrauntouhil, Beenkeragh, and Caher (East Top and West Top), as well as the famous \"Beenkeragh Ridge\".\n\nThe most challenging route is the full \"MacGillycuddy's Reeks Ridge Walk\", a 12–14 hour 26–kilometre traverse of the entire range. The route normally starts at the eastern end from \"Kate Kearney's Cottage\" in the Gap of Dunloe. The route takes in Stickeen Mountain (440 m) and Cnoc an Bhráca (731 m) before reaching the ridge proper at Cruach Mhór (932 m). From there it continues along the narrow arete of The Big Gun (939 m) to Cnoc na Péiste (988 m), and continuing along the chain of Maolán Buí (932 m), Cnoc an Chuillinn (958 m), Cnoc na Toinne (845 m) to the summit of Carrauntoohil (1,038 m). From Carrauntoohil, a number of variations are possible, the main one being a detour to Beenkeragh (1,008 m) before returning along the same route to get to Caher (1,000 m) and then on to Caher West Top (975 m) before descending to the \"Hydro-Track\" () car park near Lough Acoose, Glencar. An alternative variation is to continue from Beenkeragh (1,008 m) on the northern side of the \"Coomloughra Horseshoe\" to the peaks or Skregmore (848 m) and Cnoc Íochtair (747 m) before descending to the \"Hydro-Track\" car park.\n\nMacGillycuddy's Reeks are not especially known for their rock climbing routes, unlike Ailladie in Clare or Fair Head in Antrim. The 450–metre V–Diff, \"Howling Ridge\" up the central arete between the east and north-east faces of Carrauntoohil is notable. The north-east face of Carrauntoohill (e.g. the \"Eagle's Nest\" area), is better-known for its winter climbing, conditions permitting, offering 80 routes with 7 up to winter Grade V.\n\nThe following is a download from the \"MountainViews Online Database\", who list 29 identifiable Reeks with an elevation, or height, above 100 metres\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39358108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39358108", "title": "Mayors of Pichilemu timeline", "text": "Mayors of Pichilemu timeline\n\nThe timeline shows changes of the head of the executive branch of the municipality of Pichilemu from its creation in May 1894 until today.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6575569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6575569", "title": "Miracle-Gro", "text": "Miracle-Gro\n\nMiracle-Gro usually refers to a plant food brand made by Scotts Miracle-Gro Company. It is commonly used in gardens and houseplants because Miracle-Gro provides nutrients to plants that are otherwise depleted from the soil over time. This allows plants fed with Miracle-Gro to grow faster than unfertilized plants because Miracle-Gro provides readily available material for plants to use in the production of new plant cell structures. One of the main components of this fertilizer is nitrogen derived from ammonium and nitrates. Miracle-Gro fertilizers come in different ratios of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium. Miracle-Gro for flowers has a 15-30-15 ratio, meaning that there is 15% nitrogen, 30% phosphorus, and 15% potassium by weight.\n\nThe original Miracle-Gro was developed and launched by Horace Hagedorn and Otto Stern in the late 1940s. Hagedorn created the product brand name and its distinctive package design. Horace Hagedorn died in 2006, just short of his 90th birthday. Otto Stern, the co-founder, was the uncle of noted historian Fritz Stern. In \"The Five Germanys I Have Known,\" Fritz Stern mentions his very rich uncle Otto who had invented Miracle-Gro.\n\nMiracle-Gro has several different fertilizer mixes which include:\n\nAll Purpose (24-8-16), Rose (18-24-16), Flowers (15-30-15), Trees & Shrubs (15-10-9) and Tomato (18-18-21). Note, these values are based on water-soluble dry mix or tree spikes, not on ready to feed fertilizer values.\n\nMiracle-Gro also makes a variety of products including hose feeders, soils, and weed controls.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1561599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561599", "title": "Mount Bintumani", "text": "Mount Bintumani\n\nMount Bintumani (also known as Loma Mansa) is the highest peak in Sierra Leone and the Loma Mountains, at . It lies in the Loma Mountains and its lower slopes are covered in rainforests, home to a wide variety of animals. These include pygmy hippopotamuses, dwarf crocodiles, rufous fishing-owls and numerous primates.\n\n"}
{"id": "178715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=178715", "title": "Najd", "text": "Najd\n\nNajd or Nejd (, ) is a geographical central region of Saudi Arabia that alone accounts for almost a third of the population of the country. Najd consists of modern administrative regions of Riyadh, Al-Qassim, and Ha'il.\n\nIn pre-Islamic times the region of Najd was settled by many tribes like the Kindites, Tayy and many others.\n\nLed by Usma bin Luai, the Tayy invaded the mountains of Aja and Samra from Banu Tamim in northern Arabia in their exodus from Yemen in AD 115. These mountains are now known as Jabal Shammar. The Tayy became nomadic camel herders and horse breeders in northern Najd for centuries.\n\nIn the 5th century AD, the tribes of North Arabia became a major threat to the trade line between Yemen and Syria. The Ḥimyarites decided to establish a vassal state that controlled Central and North Arabia. The Kindites gained strength and numbers to play that role, and in AD 425 the Ḥimyarite king Ḥasan ibn 'Amr ibn Tubba’ made Ḥujr 'Akīl al-Murār ibn 'Amr the first King (Ḥujr) of Kindah. The Kindites established a kingdom in Najd in central Arabia unlike the organized states of Yemen; its kings exercised an influence over a number of associated tribes more by personal prestige than by coercive settled authority. Their first capital was Qaryat Dhāt Kāhil, today known as Qaryat al-Fāw.\n\nThe Ghassānids, Lakhmids and Kindites were all Kahlānī and Qaḥṭānī vassal kingdoms appointed by the Byzantines, Persians and Ḥimyarites to protect their borders and imperial interests from the raids of the then-rising threat of the 'Adnānī tribes. In the 5th and 6th centuries AD the Kindites made the first real concerted effort to unite all the tribes of Central Arabia through alliances, and focused on wars with the Lakhmids. Al-Ḥārith ibn 'Amr, the most famous of their kings, finally succeeded in capturing the Lakhmid capital of al-Ḥirah in southern modern day Iraq. Later however in about 529, al-Mundhir recaptured the city and put King Ḥārith and about fifty members of his family to death.\n\nIn 525, the Aksumites invaded Ḥimyar, and this Kindites, had a knock-on effect with the Kindites who lost the support of the Ḥimyarites. Within three years the Kindite kingdom had split into four groups: Asad, Taghlib, Qays and Kinānah, each led by a prince of Kindah. These small principalities were then overthrown in the 530s and 540s in a series of uprisings of the 'Adnānī tribes of Najd and Ḥijāz. In 540, the Lakhmids destroyed all the Kindite settlements in Nejd, forcing the majority of them to move to the Yemen. The Kindites and most of the Arab tribes switched their alliances to the Lakhmids.\n\nDuring the Islamic Prophet Muhammad's era, Muhammad carried out military expeditions in the area. The first was the Nejd Caravan Raid against the Quraysh, which took place in 624. The Meccans led by Safwan ibn Umayyah, who lived on trade, left in summer for Syria for their seasonal trade business. After Muhammad received intelligence about the Caravan's route, Muhammad ordered Zayd ibn Haritha to go after the Caravan, and they successfully raided it and captured 100,000 dirhams worth of booty.\n\nThe Invasion of Nejd, happened in Rabi‘ Ath-Thani or Jumada Al-Ula, 4 AH (i.e. in October AD 625).\n\nMuhammad led his fighters to Nejd to scare off some tribes he believed had suspicious intentions. Some scholars say the Expedition of Dhat al-Riqa took place in Nejd as part of this invasion.\n\nThe most authentic opinion according to \"Saifur Rahman al Mubararakpuri\", however, is that Dhat Ar-Riqa‘ campaign took place after the fall of Khaibar (and not as part of the Invasion of Nejd). This is supported by the fact that Abu Hurairah and Abu Musa Al-Ash‘ari witnessed the battle. Abu Hurairah embraced Islam only some days before Khaibar, and Abu Musa Al-Ash‘ari came back from Abyssinia (Ethiopia) and joined Muhammad at Khaibar. The rules relating to the prayer of fear which Muhammad observed at Dhat Ar-Riqa‘ campaign, were revealed at the Asfan Invasion and this scholars say, took place after Al-Khandaq (the Battle of the Trench).\n\nThe Expedition of Qatan also took place in Nejd. Banu Asad ibn Khuzaymah tribe (not to be confused with the Banu Asad tribe), were the residents of Katan, in the vicinity of Fayd, was a powerful tribe connected with the Quraysh. They resided near the hill of Katan in Nejd. Muhammad, received intelligence reports that they were planning a raid on Medina. So he dispatched a force of 150 men under the leadership of Abu Salama `Abd Allah ibn `Abd al-Asad to make a sudden attack on this tribe.\n\nAfter Muhammad's death, previously dormant tensions between the Meccan immigrants, the Muhajirun, and the Medinan converts, the Ansar, threatened to break out and split the Ummah. Other Arabic tribes also wished to revert to local leadership and split from Medina's control. In some places, people claiming prophethood started to establish leaderships to oppose Medina, e.g. Al-Aswad Al-Ansi and Musaylimah. All of which are events that led to splitting the Muslim community. The Ansar, the leaders of the tribes of Medina, met in a hall or house called saqifah, to discuss whom they would support as their new leader. When Abu Bakr was informed of the meeting, he, Umar, Abu Ubaidah ibn al-Jarrah and a few others rushed to prevent the Ansar from making a premature decision. During the meeting Umar declared that Abu Bakr should be the new leader, and declared his allegiance to Abu Bakr, followed by Abu Ubaidah ibn al-Jarrah, and thus Abu Bakr became the first Muslim caliph.\n\nApostasy and rebellion in central Arabia was led by the Musaylima in the fertile region of Yamamah. He was mainly supported by the powerful tribe of Banu Hanifa. At Buzakha in north central Arabia, another prophet, Tulaiha, a tribal chief of Bani Asad, led the rebellion against Medina aided by the allied tribes of Banu Ghatfan, the Hawazin, and the Tayy. At Najd, Malik ibn Nuweira led the tribes of Banu Tamim against the authority of Medina.\n\nOn receiving intelligence of the Muslims preparations, Tulayha too prepared for a battle, and was further reinforced by the contingents of the allied tribes.\n\nBefore launching Khalid against Tulayha, Abu Bakr sought ways and means of reducing the latter's strength, so that the battle could be fought with the maximum prospects of victory. Nothing could be done about the tribes of Bani Assad and Banu Ghatafan, which stood solidly behind Tulayha, but the Tayy were not so staunch in their support of Tulayha, and their chief, Adi ibn Hatim, was a devout Muslim.\n\nAdi was appointed by Abu Bakr to negotiate with the tribal elders to withdraw their contingent from Tulayha's army. The negotiations were a success, and Adi brought with him 500 horsemen of his tribe to reinforce Khalid's army.\n\nKhalid next marched against another apostate tribe, Jadila. Here again Adi ibn Hatim offered his services to persuade the tribe to submit without bloodshed. Bani Jadila submitted, and their 1000 warriors joined Khalid's army.\n\nKhalid, now much stronger than when he had left Zhu Qissa, marched for Buzakha. There, in mid-September 632, he defeated Tulayha in the Battle of Buzakha. The remaining army of Tulayha retreated to Ghamra, 20 miles from Buzakha, and were defeated in the Battle of Ghamra in the third week of September.\n\nSeveral tribes submitted to the Caliph after Khalid's decisive victories. Moving south from Buzakha, Khalid reached Naqra in October, with an army now 6000 strong, and defeated the rebel tribe of Banu Saleem in the Battle of Naqra. In the third week of October, Khalid defeated a tribal mistress, Salma, in the battle of Zafar. Afterwards he moved to Najd against the rebel tribe of Banu Tamim and their Sheikh Malik ibn Nuwayrah.\n\nAt Najd, getting the news of Khalid's decisive victories against apostates in Buzakha, many clans of Banu Tamim hastened to visit Khalid, but the Banu Yarbu', a branch of Bani Tamim, under their chief, Malik ibn Nuwayrah, hung back. Malik was a chief of some distinction: a warrior, noted for his generosity, and a famous poet. Bravery, generosity, and poetry were the three qualities most admired among the Arabs.\n\nAt the time of Muhammad, he had been appointed as a tax collector for the tribe of Banu Tamim. As soon as Malik heard of the death of Muhammad, he gave back all the tax to his tribespeople, saying, \"Now you are the owner of your wealth.\" Moreover, he was to be charged because he signed a pact with the prophet Sajjah. This agreement stated that first they would deal with local enemy tribes together, and then they would confront the state of Madinah.\n\nHis riders were stopped by Khalid's army at the town of Buttah. Khalid asked them about the signing of pact with Sajjah; they said it was just because they wanted revenge against their terrible enemies.\n\nWhen Khalid reached Najd he found no opposing army. He sent his cavalry to nearby villages and ordered them to call the Azaan (call for prayers) to each party they meet. Zirrar bin Azwar, a squadron leader, arrested the family of Malik, claiming they did not answer the call to prayer. Malik avoided direct contact with Khalid's army and ordered his followers to scatter, and he and his family apparently moved away across the desert. He refused to give zakat, hence differentiating between prayer and zakat\n\nNevertheless, Malik was accused of rebellion against the state of Medina. He was also to be charged for his entering in an anti-Caliphate alliance with the prophetess Sajjah. Malik was arrested along with his clan men,\n\nMalik was asked by Khalid about his crimes. Malik's response was \"your master said this, your master said that\" referring to Abu Bakr. Khalid declared Malik a rebel apostate and ordered his execution. Khalid bin Walid killed Malik ibn Nuwayra.\n\nIkrimah ibn Abi-Jahl, one of the corps commanders, was instructed to make contact with Musaylima at Yamamah, but not to engage in fighting until Khalid joined him. Abu Bakr's intention in giving Ikrimah this mission was to tie Musaylima down at Yamamah. With Ikrimah on the horizon, Musaylima would remain in expectation of a Muslim attack, and thus not be able to leave his base. With Musaylima so committed, Khalid would be free to deal with the apostate tribes of north-central Arabia without interference from Yamamah.\n\nMeanwhile, Abu Bakr sent Shurhabil's corps to reinforce Ikrama at Yamamah. However, Ikrimah attacked Musaylima's forces in early September 632 and was defeated. He wrote the details of his actions to Abu Bakr, who, both pained and angered by the rashness of Ikrimah and his disobedience, ordered him to proceed with his force to Oman to assist Hudaifa; once Hudaifa had completed his task, to march to Mahra to help Arfaja, and thereafter go to Yemen to help Muhajir.\n\nMeanwhile, Abu Bakr sent orders to Khalid to march against Musaylima. Shurhabil's corps, that was stationed at Yamamah, was to reinforce Khalid's corps. In addition to this Abu Bakr assembled a fresh army of Ansar and Muhajireen in Medina that joined Khalid's corps at Butah. From Butah Khalid marched to Yamamah to join with Shurhabil's corps.\n\nThough Abu Bakr had instructed Shurhabil not to engage Musaylima's forces until the arrival of Khalid, shortly before the arrival of Khalid, Shurhabil engaged Musaylima's forces and was defeated too. Khalid joined with the corps of Shurhabil early in December 632.\n\nThe combined force of Muslims, now 13,000 strong, defeated Musaylima's army in the Battle of Yamama, which was fought in the third week of December. The fortified city of Yamamah surrendered peacefully later that week.\n\nKhalid established his headquarters at Yamamah, from where he despatched columns to all over the plain of Aqraba to subdue the region around Yamamah and to kill or capture all who resisted. Thereafter all of central Arabia submitted to Medina.\n\nWhat remained of the apostasy in the less vital areas of Arabia was rooted out by the Muslims in a series of well planned campaigns within five months.\n\nMuhammad's followers rapidly expanded the territory under Muslim rule beyond Arabia, conquering huge swathes of territory (from the Iberian Peninsula in west to modern day Pakistan in east) in a matter of decades. In so doing, Arabia soon became a politically peripheral region of the Muslim world as the focus shifted to the more developed conquered lands. From the 10th century to the early 20th century Mecca and Medina were under the control of a local Arab ruler known as the Sharif of Mecca, but at most times the Sharif owed allegiance to the ruler of one of the major Islamic empires based in Baghdad, Cairo or Istanbul. Most of the remainder of what became Saudi Arabia reverted to traditional tribal rule.\n\nIn the 16th century, the Ottomans added the Red Sea and Persian Gulf coast (the Hejaz, Asir and Al-Ahsa) to the Empire and claimed suzerainty over the interior. One reason was to thwart Portuguese attempts to attack the Red Sea (hence the Hejaz) and the Indian Ocean. Ottoman degree of control over these lands varied over the next four centuries with the fluctuating strength or weakness of the Empire's central authority. The emergence of what was to become the Saudi royal family, known as the Al Saud, began in Nejd in central Arabia in 1744, when Muhammad bin Saud, founder of the dynasty, joined forces with the religious leader Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab, founder of the Wahhabi movement, a strict puritanical form of Sunni Islam. This alliance formed in the 18th century provided the ideological impetus to Saudi expansion and remains the basis of Saudi Arabian dynastic rule today. The first \"Saudi state\" established in 1744 in the area around Riyadh, rapidly expanded and briefly controlled most of the present-day territory of Saudi Arabia, but was destroyed by 1818 by the Ottoman viceroy of Egypt, Mohammed Ali Pasha. A much smaller second \"Saudi state\", located mainly in Nejd, was established in 1824 by Turki. Throughout the rest of the 19th century, the Al Saud contested control of the interior of what was to become Saudi Arabia with another Arabian ruling family, the Al Rashid. By 1891, the Al Rashid were victorious and the Al Saud were driven into exile in Kuwait.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, the Ottoman Empire continued to control or have a suzerainty over most of the peninsula. Subject to this suzerainty, Arabia was ruled by a patchwork of tribal rulers, with the Sharif of Mecca having pre-eminence and ruling the Hejaz. In 1902, Abdul Rahman's son, Abdul Aziz—later to be known as Ibn Saud—recaptured control of Riyadh bringing the Al Saud back to Nejd. Ibn Saud gained the support of the Ikhwan, a tribal army inspired by Wahhabism, and which had grown quickly after its foundation in 1912. With the aid of the Ikhwan, Ibn Saud captured Al-Ahsa from the Ottomans in 1913.\n\nIn 1916, with the encouragement and support of Britain (which was fighting the Ottomans in World War I), the Sharif of Mecca, Hussein bin Ali, led a pan-Arab revolt against the Ottoman Empire to create a united Arab state. Although the Arab Revolt of 1916 to 1918 failed in its objective, the Allied victory in World War I resulted in the end of Ottoman suzerainty and control in Arabia.\n\nIbn Saud avoided involvement in the Arab Revolt, and instead continued his struggle with the Al Rashid. Following the latter's final defeat, he took the title Sultan of Nejd in 1921. With the help of the Ikhwan, the Hejaz was conquered in 1924–25 and on 10 January 1926, Ibn Saud declared himself King of the Hejaz. A year later, he added the title of King of Nejd. For the next five years, he administered the two parts of his dual kingdom as separate units.\n\nAfter the conquest of the Hejaz, the Ikhwan leadership's objective switched to expansion of the Wahhabist realm into the British protectorates of Transjordan, Iraq and Kuwait, and began raiding those territories. This met with Ibn Saud's opposition, as he recognized the danger of a direct conflict with the British. At the same time, the Ikhwan became disenchanted with Ibn Saud's domestic policies which appeared to favor modernization and the increase in the number of non-Muslim foreigners in the country. As a result, they turned against Ibn Saud and, after a two-year struggle, were defeated in 1930 at the Battle of Sabilla, where their leaders were massacred. In 1932 the two kingdoms of the Hejaz and Nejd were united as the \"Kingdom of Saudi Arabia\".\n\nThe Arabic word \"najd\" literally means \"upland\" and was once applied to a variety of regions within the Arabian Peninsula. However, the most famous of these was the central region of the Peninsula roughly bounded on the west by the mountains of the Hejaz and Yemen and to the east by the historical region of Eastern Arabia and the north by Iraq and Syria.\n\nMedieval Muslim geographers spent a great amount of time debating the exact boundaries between Hejaz and Najd in particular, but generally set the western boundaries of Najd to be wherever the western mountain ranges and lava beds began to slope eastwards, and set the eastern boundaries of Najd at the narrow strip of red sand dunes known as the Ad-Dahna Desert, some east of modern-day Riyadh. The southern border of Najd has always been set at the large sea of sand dunes known today as Rub' al Khali (the Empty Quarter), while the southwestern boundaries are marked by the valleys of Wadi Ranyah, Wadi Bisha, and Wadi Tathlith.\n\nThe northern boundaries of Najd have fluctuated greatly historically and received far less attention from the medieval geographers. In the early Islamic centuries, Najd was considered to extend as far north as the River Euphrates, or more specifically, the \"Walls of Khosrau\", constructed by the Sassanid Empire as a barrier between Arabia and Iraq immediately prior to the advent of Islam. The modern usage of the term encompasses the region of Al-Yamama, which was not always considered part of Najd historically.\n\nNajd, as its name suggests, is a plateau ranging from in height and sloping downwards from west to east. The eastern sections (historically better known as Al-Yamama) are marked by oasis settlements with lots of farming and trading activities, while the rest has traditionally been sparsely occupied by nomadic Bedouins. The main topographical features include the twin mountains of Aja and Salma in the north near Ha'il, the high land of Jabal Shammar and the Tuwaiq mountain range running through its center from north to south. Also important are the various dry river-beds (\"wadis\") such as Wadi Hanifa near Riyadh, Wadi Na'am in the south, Wadi Al-Rumah in the Al-Qassim Province in the north, and Wadi ad-Dawasir at the southernmost tip of Najd on the border with Najran. Most Najdi villages and settlements are located along these wadis, due to ability of these wadis to preserve precious rainwater in the arid desert climate, while others are located near oases. Historically, Najd itself has been divided into small provinces made up of constellations of small towns, villages and settlements, with each one usually centered on one \"capital\". These subdivisions are still recognized by Najdis today, as each province retains its own variation of the Najdi dialect and Najdi customs. The most prominent among these provinces are Al-'Aridh, which includes Riyadh and the historical Saudi capital of Diriyah; Al-Qassim, with its capital in Buraidah; Sudair, centered on Al Majma'ah; Al-Washm, centered on Shaqraa; and Jebel Shammar, with its capital, Ha'il. Under modern-day Saudi Arabia, however, Najd is divided into three administrative regions: Ha'il, Al-Qassim, and Riyadh, comprising a combined area of .\n\nRiyadh is the largest city in Najd, as well as the largest city in the country as a whole, with a population of more than 5,700,000 in 2010 and 5,008,100 in 2016.Other cities include Buraidah (505,845 in 2005), Unaizah (138,351 in 2005) and Ar Rass (116,164 in 2005). Smaller towns and villages include Sudair, Al-Kharj, Dawadmi, 'Afif, Al-Zilfi, Al Majma'ah, Shaqraa, Tharmada'a, Dhurma, Al-Gway'iyyah, Al-Hareeq, Hotat Bani Tamim, Layla, As Sulayyil, and Wadi ad-Dawasir, the southernmost settlement in Najd.\n\nPrior to the formation of the modern Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the native population Arabian tribes, who were either nomads (\"bedouins\"), or sedentary farmers and merchants. The rest of the population consisted mainly of Arabs who were, for various reasons, unaffiliated with any tribes, and who mostly lived in the towns and villages of Najd working in various trades such as carpentry or as \"Sonnaa\"' (craftsmen). There was also a small segment of the population made up of African as well as some East and South Eastern European slaves or freedmen.\n\nMost of the Najdi tribes are of Adnanite origin and emigrated from Tihamah and Hijaz to Najd in ancient times. The most famous Najdi tribes in the pre-Islamic era were Banu Hanifa, who occupied the area around modern-day Riyadh, Banu Tamim, who occupied areas further north, the tribe of Banu Abs who were centered in Al-Qassim, the tribe of Tayy, centered on modern-day Ha'il, and the tribe of Banu 'Amir in southern Najd. In the 15th through 18th centuries, there was considerable tribal influx from the west, increasing both the nomadic and settled population of the area and providing fertile soil for the Wahhabi movement. By the 20th century, many of the ancient tribes had morphed into new confederations or emigrated from other areas of the Middle East, and many tribes from other regions of the Peninsula had moved into Najd. However, the largest proportion of native Najdis today still belong to these ancient Najdi tribes or to their newer incarnations. Many of the Najdi tribes even in ancient times were not nomadic or bedouin but rather very well settled farmers and merchants. The royal family of Saudi Arabia, Al Saud, for example, trace their lineage to Banu Hanifa. On the eve of the formation of Saudi Arabia, the major nomadic tribes of Najd included Dawasir, Mutayr, 'Utaybah, Shammar (historically known as Tayy) Subay', Suhool, Harb, and the Qahtanites in southern Najd. In addition to those tribes, many of the sedentary population belonged to Anizzah, Banu Tamim, Banu Hanifa, Banu Khalid, and Banu Zayd.\n\nMost of the nomadic tribes are now settled either in cities such as Riyadh, or in special settlements, known as hijras, that were established in the early part of the 20th century as part of a country-wide policy undertaken by King Abdul-Aziz to put an end to nomadic life. Nomads still exist in the Kingdom, however, in very small numbers – a far cry from the days when they made up the majority of the people of the Arabian Peninsula.\n\nSince the formation of modern Saudi Arabia, Najd, and particularly Riyadh, has seen an influx of immigrants from all regions of the country and from virtually every social class. The native Najdi population has also largely moved away from its native towns and villages to the capital, Riyadh. However, most of these villages still retain a small number of their native inhabitants. About a quarter of the population of Najd, including about a third of the population of Riyadh, are non-Saudi expatriates, including both skilled professionals and unskilled laborers.\n\nSlavery was abolished in Saudi Arabia by King Faisal in 1962. Some of those freed slaves chose to continue working for their former slave-owners, particularly those whose former owners were members of the royal family.\n\nUnlike Hejaz and Tihamah, Najd is remote and stayed outside of the reign of important Islamic empires such as the Abbasids and the Ottoman Empire. This fact largely shaped its current dissimilarity to Hejaz.\n\nThe region is known for its strict interpretation of Islam and is generally considered a bastion of religious conservatism. The founder of the strict interpretation of Islam called Wahhabism followed by the House of Saud, Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab was born in 'Uyayna, a village in the Najd.\n\nThe people of Najd have spoken Arabic, in one form or another, for practically all of recorded history. As in other regions of the Peninsula, there is a divergence between the dialect of the nomadic Bedouins and the dialect of the sedentary townspeople. The variation, however, is far less pronounced in Najd than it is elsewhere in the country, and the Najdi sedentary dialect seems to be descended from the Bedouin dialect, just as most sedentary Najdis are descendants of nomadic Bedouins themselves. The Najdi dialect is seen by some to be the least foreign-influenced of all modern Arabic dialects, due to the isolated location and harsh climate of the Najdi plateau, as well as the apparent absence of any substratum from a previous language. Indeed, not even the ancient South Arabian language appears to have been widely spoken in Najd in ancient times, unlike southern Saudi Arabia, for example. Within Najd itself, the different regions and towns have their own distinctive accents and sub-dialects. However, these have largely merged in recent times and have become heavily influenced by Arabic dialects from other regions and countries. This is particularly the case in Riyadh.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Najd produced coarse wool cloth.\n\nBahiyyih Nakhjavani’s first novel \"The Saddlebag – A Fable for Doubters and Seekers\" describes events set in the Najd plateau along the pilgrim route between Mecca and Medina in 1844–1845.\n\nA contest held in the Middle East brought light to a new character in famed SNK Playmore videogame, \"The King of Fighters XIV\". This character goes under the name Najd.\n\n"}
{"id": "11969599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11969599", "title": "Natural World Museum", "text": "Natural World Museum\n\nThe Natural World Museum (NWM) was a mobile and global cultural institution based in San Francisco that presented art as a catalyst to inspire and engage people in environmental awareness and action. \n\nThe Natural World Museum partnered with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) to present art exhibitions each year for World Environment Day as part of their Art for the Environment initiative. NWM designed curatorial programs that offered new and creative perspectives on specific environmental themes such as green cities, desertification, and global climate change. These exhibitions featured both emerging and established artists and were hosted by international venues such as the Nobel Peace Center in Oslo, Norway. \n\nNWM was an important source of commissions of new environmental art. For the 2007 World Environment Day exhibit, \"Envisioning Change: Melting Ice / A Hot Topic\", NWM commissioned Alfio Bonnano to create a site-specific outdoor nature installation entitled \"Ark\", depicting a boat balanced in the treetops. The piece symbolizes the effects of global warming. \n\nIn 2007, NWM published a book entitled \"Art in Action: Nature, Creativity, and Our Collective Future\", with a foreword by Achim Steiner, Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme, and containing artworks by Christo and Jeanne-Claude, Joseph Beuys, Ed Burtynsky, Ken Rinaldo, and Cai Guo-Qiang, among others. \n\nAs part of NWM's educational outreach programs, hundreds of children and youth from all over the world participated in the Planet Art program; the program's purpose was to instill environmental awareness in the future stewards of the earth. NWM also held an ongoing lecture series and annual international symposium that bridged the worlds of art, science, and the environment, featuring guest speakers such as Al Gore, Ernest Callenbach, Hunter Lovins, Joanna Macy, Daryl Hannah, and Wangari Maathai, Nobel Laureate 2004.\n\nMia Hanak was the Founding Executive Director of NWM from 2001 to 2008.\n\nIn May 2009, NWM was officially closed and is no longer a functioning museum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5000933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5000933", "title": "Pedro Reinel", "text": "Pedro Reinel\n\nPedro Reinel (c. 1462 – c. 1542) was a Portuguese cartographer, author of one of the oldest signed Portuguese nautical charts (c. 1485). That is a portolan type of chart, covering western Europe and part of Africa, and already reflecting the explorations made by Diogo Cão in 1482–1485. With his son Jorge Reinel (c. 1502 – c. 1572), and the cartographer Lopo Homem, he participated in the construction of the well-known Miller Atlas (1519). His Atlantic Chart of c. 1504 is the earliest known nautical chart with a scale of latitudes, and the first to depict a wind rose with a clearly drawn fleur-de-lys. He has a Portuguese postage stamp in his honour.\n"}
{"id": "11176263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11176263", "title": "Pettarra", "text": "Pettarra\n\nPettarra (Basque, /petjara/, from beheretar(ra)* 'lowlander', ), was the vernacular name for the area along the lower course of the Saison (French Basque Country), as opposed to the Basabürüa.\n\nIt was also known as \"Barhoue\".\n"}
{"id": "2666523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2666523", "title": "Regions of Chad", "text": "Regions of Chad\n\nThe country of Chad is divided into 23 regions ( \"manāṭiq\", ).\n\nEach region is divided into between two and four departments (\"ʾaqālīm\" أقاليم or \"départments\"), apart from the city of N'Djamena, which is divided into 10 \"dawāʾir\" دوائر respectively \"arrondissements\".\n\nThis is a list of the regions of Chad since 2012 with population figures from the 2009 census.\n\n<section begin=table />\n\n<section end=table />\n\nFrom independence in 1960 until 1999 it was divided into 14 \"préfectures\". These were replaced in 1999 by 28 \"départements\". The country was reorganized again in 2002 to produce 18 \"régions\". In 2008, a further four \"régions\" were created, increasing the number to 22. Ennedi Region was split into Ennedi-Est and Ennedi-Ouest in 2012, producing the current 23 regions.\n\n<section begin=table />\n\n<section end=table />\n\n(1) created in 2004\n\n<section end=table />\n\nOn February 19, 2008, four new regions were created:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30269209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30269209", "title": "Royal Geographical Society of Australasia", "text": "Royal Geographical Society of Australasia\n\nOn 22 June 1883, the Geographical Society of Australasia started at a meeting in Sydney. A branch was formed in Victoria in the same year. In July 1885, both the Queensland and the South Australian branches started.\n\nIn July 1886 the society became the Royal Geographical Society of Australasia. The New South Wales branch's new constitution in 1886 widened its scope to encourage interest in scientific, commercial, educational and historical aspects of geography. The Society sponsored several important expeditions, notably the New Guinea Exploration Expedition in 1885, whose members included zoologist Wilhelm Haacke, erstwhile director of the South Australian Museum.\n\nThe Victorian branch amalgamated with the Victorian Historical Society, while the New South Wales branch had ceased to function by the early 1920s. The South Australian and Queensland branches continue as the Royal Geographical Society of South Australia and Royal Geographical Society of Queensland respectively (see External links below).\n\nThe South Australian branch was formed on 10 July 1885 with foundation members His Honor the Chief Justice S. J. Way, Sir Henry Ayers, KCMG. (President of the Legislative Council), Sir Samuel Davenport, Sir Thomas Elder, Hons. George W. Cotton, David Murray, Henry Scott, and Robert Alfred Tarlton, M.L.C., Bishop Kennion, D.D., Archdeacon Farr, M.A., LLD, Rev. F. Williams, M.A., Peter Egerton-Warburton. F. E. H. W. Krichauff, M.P., Edwin Thomas Smith, M.P., William Bundey (Mayor of Adelaide), J. A. Hartley, B.A., B.Sc.(lnspector-General of Schools), J. W. Jones (Conservator of Water), J. Langdon Bonython, J. F. Conigrave, T. Evans Jr., William Everard, Tom Gill, C. Hope Harris, E. Holthouse, A. T. Magarey, C. M. McKillop F.R.G.S., C. J. Sanders, Samuel Tomkinson, W. H. Tietkens, F.R.G.S., W. B. Wilkinson, Thomas Worsnop and F. S. Wallis. Later prominent members were Simpson Newland (president 1895–1900 and 1920–1922), A. M. Simpson, A. A. Simpson (president 1925–1930), John Lewis (president 1913–1920) and Clive M. Hambidge (president 1944–1947).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5998671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5998671", "title": "Sea of Zanj", "text": "Sea of Zanj\n\nThe Sea of Zanj () is a former name for that portion of the western Indian Ocean adjacent to the region in the African Great Lakes referred to by medieval Arab geographers as Zanj. The Sea of Zanj was deemed a fearful zone by Arab mariners and legends regarding dangers in the waters abounded, especially near its far southern limits.\n\nThe term was applied to the sea expanses near the eastern portion of the African continent known by ancient Muslim travelers and chroniclers such as Al Masudi and Ibn Batuta.\n\nAlthough geographically insufficiently defined, the area of the Sea of Zanj included a vast maritime region roughly stretching as far as ancient navigators reached on their dhows. Subject to Monsoon wind variations, the Sea of Zanj was located to the south of the Erythraean Sea. It stretched off the coast of Southeast Africa as far south as the Mozambique Channel, including the Comoros and the waters off the eastern coast of Madagascar. On its eastern side the sea extended west of the Seychelles and to the northwest of the islands of the Mascarenes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2678247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2678247", "title": "Servette", "text": "Servette\n\nServette is a district of the city of Geneva, Switzerland. The district's name comes from the Latin word for forest, \"silva\", and means \"little forest\". Its name alludes to Servette's rural past, before Geneva grew beyond its walls and incorporated the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "31299985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31299985", "title": "Succession of power in the People's Republic of China", "text": "Succession of power in the People's Republic of China\n\nThe succession of power in the People's Republic of China (PRC) takes place in the context of a single party system. Despite the guarantee of universal franchise in the constitution, the appointment of the Paramount Leader lies largely in the hands of his predecessor and the powerful factions that control the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China. The appointment of the leader of the world’s most populous country occurs after two five year terms in accordance with the Constitution of the People's Republic of China.\n\nIt is generally accepted that the Paramount leader of China holds these three official titles:\n\n\nIn the past it was possible for the Paramount Leader to wield absolute power without holding any official office. This was the case with Deng Xiaoping who was the undisputed leader from 1978 to 1992 without holding any official offices. Since his retirement, power has become more structured with the leader holding all three of the previously mentioned offices.\n\nThe concept of Paramount Leader was instituted during the era of Mao Zedong. The position was further established under Deng Xiaoping, however the term Paramount Leader has not been officially attributed to any other leaders. Since the retirement of Deng Xiaoping in 1992, political power in China has been held collectively by the members of the Politburo Standing Committee of the Communist Party of China. The General Secretary may be best described as primus inter pares, first among equals. Because the proceedings of this body are considered a state secret, the inner workings of Politburo are not made public. It is clear, however, that decision making has become consensus driven and that no single figure can any longer act unilaterally as in the days of Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping.\n\nConstitutional power in the People's Republic of China is held by the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party (CCCPC). Although this group of approximately 300 members does not have power in the same way as a traditional legislative body, the most important and senior officials of the Chinese government are all members.\n\nWithin the CCCPC is the Politburo of the Communist Party of China. This body is a group of 25 individuals (currently 23 men and two women) who govern the Communist Party of China (CCP). Theoretically, the Politburo is elected by the CCCPC; however, in practice any new member of the Politburo is chosen by the current members. Politburo members hold positions in China's national government and regional positions of power simultaneously thereby consolidating the CCP’s power.\n\nIn the case of key policy decisions, topics are addressed in the Politburo which then determines actions to be taken by the national and local government. The policy direction for the entire country rests in the hands of these 25 individuals who meet together once a month. Admission into the Politburo is extremely difficult. Tight control over the body is exercised by current members who vet potential members carefully to maintain the balance of power. Good political relationships within the Politburo are essential for admittance into the group. All members of the Politburo are elected for five year terms.\n\n18th Politburo\n\"In stroke order of surnames:\"\n\nPower within the Politburo is further concentrated in the Politburo Standing Committee of the Communist Party of China. This group of seven members meets together weekly and is led by the General Secretary.\n\n18th Politburo Standing Committee\n\"Ordered in political position ranking\"\n\nThe election of executive leadership in the PRC is done through a process that can best be described as an indirect election. In this system, only one candidate stands for the election of any given position. Although other candidates are not allowed to formally run, write in candidates are permitted. In 2013, when the 12th National People's Congress elected Xi Jinping as president, 2952 members voted in favor and one against, with three abstentions. Similarly, in the 2008 election, Hu Jintao, then-General Secretary, President and Chairman of the Central Military Commission, was re-elected by a landside. Of the 2985 members of the 11th National People's Congress, only 3 voted against Hu Jintao with another 5 abstaining.\n\nIn practical terms, the National Congress provides a rubber stamp on a decision that is made by the Politburo and the Standing Committee. The transition of leadership can take several months. For instance, when Hu Jintao took over power from Jiang Zemin, the transition of power stretched out almost 2 years. Listed below are the dates on which Hu was appointed to each office.\nUsually the office of Chairman of the Central Military Commission is the last office handed over by the previous leader, in order to secure political influence and ensure political continuity.\n\nAppointments to key offices are the best predictor of who the next leader will be. The office of Vice Chairman of the Central Military Commission (CMC) is seen by many as the last stop before becoming the leader of China. Appointment to this position is so crucial that when Xi Jinping, the current General Secretary failed to achieve this office at the 4th Plenum in 2009, many analysts suggested that he had fallen from favor and would not be the next leader of the PRC. His ultimate appointment to Vice Chairman of the CMC was seen as evidence that he had begun to consolidate his power and would ultimately succeed Hu Jintao when his term expired in 2012 at the 18th party congress. \nAbsent a transparent electoral process, the appointment to key positions is the only way to predict future leadership in the PRC. Note in the table below, the path that Xi Jinping followed from a low level party official at the age of 30 to his current position of the leader of the largest country in the world.\n\nXi Jinping's Corresponding Political and Military Postings, 1983-2007\n\nAs long as the Chinese government remains secretive about the inner workings of the Politburo, past behavior will continue to be the most effective tool for predicting future appointments. In this context, the appointment of a candidate to key offices is still the best indicator of their future role. For example, the appointment of Xi Jinping as the vice chairman of the Central Military Commission of the Communist Party of China signposted with a reasonable amount of confidence that he would be the next leader of the People's Republic of China.\n\n"}
{"id": "24592317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24592317", "title": "Universalism in geography", "text": "Universalism in geography\n\nUniversalism, in human geography, signals the position that ideas of development produced in Western social sciences hold for all times and places. Universalist thinking began in the Age of Enlightenment when philosophers decided on \"truths\" that could explain occurrences rationally and accurately. Development geography, human geography and other disciplines seek to find and critique universal \"truths\". Critics suggest that Universalism has created a world knowledge hierarchy placing Western Europe, North America and the rest of the \"developed\" world at the top, as the centre of knowledge, and placing the rest of the globe below, as ignorant and needing to be educated. The hierarchy reiterates the core-periphery notion, examining it in terms of knowledge differentials across space.\n\nAs intellectuals began to question traditional understandings of the world and think on a global scale, new \"truths\" were created to help explain the world as placeless, free of cultural specificity, abstract and apolitical. They began to manifest themselves in development policies, political apparatuses, and other institutions. In the late 19th and 20th century, Émile Durkheim wrote that \"the truths of [modern] science are independent of any local context\", echoing the Enlightenment's philosophies and assuming an isotropic globe, thus allowing homogeneity to overtake difference. A sense of security and superiority was wielded as the world was now understood, which allowed for the continued teaching of and reliance upon universal \"truths\".\n\nOne can see how saying that all knowledge is geographically located is widely taken as a way of saying that the knowledge in question is not authentically true at all.\nAs universal \"truth\" claims gained acceptance among Western intellectuals, they began an important transition into the school system. Michel Foucault describes the 17th- and-18th century school systems as being important because of highly complex systems of conditioning. As \"truth\" claims were taught to children, they became embedded within societal and political apparatuses. Once cemented within such institutions, they were able to flourish and remain.\n\nThrough the imperialist expansion by the west and the successive colonisation around the globe, supposed universal \"truths\" began to diffuse across borders, space and place. Once colonies were set up and dominant hegemons were in place the processes of the west began to be the processes of the world and the necessary steps to modernisation.\n\nThe realization that the truths may not be universal across different spaces was an important factor in the 1970s, when questions arose of nationally varying styles of science. By the mid-1980s, geographical sensibility towards science increased, seeking to show that locality and spatial situation needed to be remembered to understand how scientific knowledge was made, became credible and flowed globally. It has been with that new situational approach to knowledge formation that allowed geographers to begin analyses of epistemology with relation to place and confront \"truth\" formation with a more culturally ecological (cultural ecology) approach.\n\nImportant to universalism in geography is understanding how knowledge becomes accepted as truth. Foucault discusses truth in terms of \"societal regimes of truth\" and explains that truths are made up by societies by selecting \"the types of discourse which it accepts and makes function as true\" and creating and controlling \"the mechanisms that enable us to distinguish between true and false statements\". He goes on about the relationship between truth and systems of power and how they produce and maintain such regimes of truth.\n"}
{"id": "38773637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38773637", "title": "Vertical and horizontal", "text": "Vertical and horizontal\n\nIn astronomy, geography, and related sciences and contexts, a \"direction\" or \"plane\" passing by a given point is said to be vertical if it contains the local gravity direction at that point.\n\nConversely, a direction or plane is said to be horizontal if it is perpendicular to the vertical direction.\n\nThe usage of the inter-related terms horizontal and vertical as well as their symmetries and asymmetries vary with context (e.g. two vs. three dimensions).\nIn general, something that is vertical can be drawn from up to down (or down to up), such as the y-axis in the Cartesian coordinate system.\n\nGirard Desargues defined the vertical to be perpendicular to the horizon in his \"Perspective\" of 1636.\n\nThe word \"horizontal\" is derived from \"horizon\", whereas \"vertical\" originates in the late Latin \"\", which is from the same root as \"vertex\" 'highest point'.\n\nIn physics, in engineering, and in construction, the direction designated as vertical is usually that along which a plumb-bob hangs. Alternatively, a spirit level that exploits the buoyancy of an air bubble and its tendency to go vertically upwards may be used to test for horizontality. Modern rotary laser levels that can level themselves automatically are robust sophisticated instruments and work on the same fundamental principle.\n\nIn the flat earth scenario, where the earth is notionally a large (infinite) flat surface with gravitational field at a right angle to the surface, the earth surface is horizontal and any plane parallel to the earth surface is also horizontal. Vertical planes, e.g., walls, may be parallel to each other or they may intersect at a vertical line. Horizontal surfaces do not intersect. Furthermore, a plane cannot both be a horizontal plane at one place and a vertical plane somewhere else.\n\nWhen the curvature of the earth is taken into account, the concepts of vertical and horizontal take on yet another meaning. On the surface of a smoothly spherical, homogenous, non-rotating planet, the plumb bob picks out as vertical the radial direction. Strictly speaking, it is now no longer possible for vertical walls to be parallel: \"all\" verticals intersect. This fact has real practical applications in construction and civil engineering, e.g., the tops of the towers of a suspension bridge are further apart than at the bottom. \n\nAlso, horizontal planes can intersect when they are tangent planes to separated points on the surface of the earth. In particular, a plane tangent to a point on the equator intersects the plane tangent to the North Pole at a right angle. (See diagram).\nFurthermore, the equatorial plane is parallel to the tangent plane at the North Pole and as such has claim to be a horizontal plane. But it is. at the same time, a vertical plane for points on the equator. In this sense, a plane can, arguably, be \"both\" horizontal and vertical, horizontal \"at one place\", and vertical \"at another\".\n\nFor a spinning earth, the plumb line deviates from the radial direction as a function of latitude. Only at the North and South Poles does the plumb line align with the local radius. The situation is actually even more complicated because earth is not a homogeneous smooth sphere. It is a non homogeneous, non spherical, knobby planet in motion, and the vertical not only need not lie along a radial, it may even be curved and be varying with time. On a smaller scale, a mountain to one side may deflect the plumb bob away from the true zenith.\n\nOn a larger scale the gravitational field of the earth, which is at least approximately radial near the earth, is not radial when it is affected by the moon at higher altitudes.\n\nOn a (horizontal) floor, one can draw a horizontal line but not a vertical line in the sense of a plumb bob line. But on a (vertical) wall, one can draw both vertical \"and\" horizontal lines. In this sense, a vertical wall allows more options. This is reflected in the tools a bricklayer uses: a plumb line for verticality and a spirit level to check that the mortar courses are horizontal.\nOn the other hand, in contrast to a wall a horizontal floor allows more options when one considers compass directions. One can draw on a floor lines going north, south, east, and west, in fact, along any compass direction. A wall allows fewer options. For instance, on a wall which runs along a longitude, an insect cannot crawl east.\n\nNeglecting the curvature of the earth, horizontal and vertical motions of a projectile moving under gravity are independent of each other. Vertical displacement of a projectile is not affected by the horizontal component of the launch velocity, and, conversely, the horizontal displacement is unaffected by the vertical component. The notion dates at least as far back as Galileo.\n\nWhen the curvature of the earth is taken into account, the independence of the two motion does \"not\" hold. For example, even a projectile fired in a horizontal direction (i.e., with a zero vertical component) may leave the surface of the spherical earth and indeed escape altogether.\n\nIn the context of a two-dimensional orthogonal Cartesian coordinate system on a Euclidean plane, to say that a line is horizontal or vertical, an initial designation has to be made. One can start off by designating the vertical direction, usually labelled the Y direction. The horizontal direction, usually labelled the X direction, is then automatically determined. Or, one can do it the other way around, i.e., nominate the \"x\"-axis, in which case the \"y\"-axis is then automatically determined. There is no special reason to choose the horizontal over the vertical as the initial designation: the two directions are on par in this respect.\n\nThe following hold in the two-dimensional case:\n\nNot all of these elementary geometric facts are true in the 3-D context.\n\nIn the three-dimensional case, the situation is more complicated as now one has horizontal and vertical planes in addition to horizontal and vertical lines. Consider a point P and designate a direction through P as vertical. A plane which contains P and is normal to the designated direction is the \"horizontal plane\" at P. Any plane going through P, normal to the horizontal plane is a \"vertical plane\" at P. Through any point P, there is one and only one horizontal plane but a \"multiplicity\" of vertical planes. This is a new feature that emerges in three dimensions. The symmetry that exists in the two-dimensional case no longer holds.\n\nIn the 2-dimension case, as mentioned already, the usual designation of the vertical coincides with the y-axis in co-ordinate geometry. This convention can cause confusion in the classroom. For the teacher, writing perhaps on a white board, the \"y\"-axis really is vertical in the sense of the plumbline verticality but for the student the axis may well lie on a horizontal table.\n\nAlthough the word horizontal is commonly used in daily life and language (see below), it is subject to many misconceptions.\n\n\n\n\nIn general, something that is horizontal can be drawn from left to right (or right to left), such as the x-axis in the Cartesian coordinate system.\n\nThe concept of a horizontal plane is thus anything but simple, although, in practice, most of these effects and variations are rather small: they are measurable and can be predicted with great accuracy, but they may not greatly affect our daily life.\n\nThis dichotomy between the apparent simplicity of a concept and an actual complexity of defining (and measuring) it in scientific terms arises from the fact that the typical linear scales and dimensions of relevance in daily life are 3 orders of magnitude (or more) smaller than the size of the Earth. Hence, the world appears to be flat locally, and horizontal planes in nearby locations appear to be parallel. Such statements are nevertheless approximations; whether they are acceptable in any particular context or application depends on the applicable requirements, in particular in terms of accuracy.\n\nIn graphical contexts, such as drawing and drafting and Co-ordinate geometry on rectangular paper, it is very common to associate one of the dimensions of the paper with a horizontal, even though the entire sheet of paper is standing on a flat horizontal (or slanted) table. In this case, the horizontal direction is typically from the left side of the paper to the right side. This is purely conventional (although it is somehow 'natural' when drawing a natural scene as it is seen in reality), and may lead to misunderstandings or misconceptions, especially in an educational context.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47412272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47412272", "title": "Viking Terra", "text": "Viking Terra\n\nViking Terra is a region on the dwarf planet Pluto which lies just west of Sputnik Planum and south of Voyager Terra. It was discovered by the \"New Horizons\" probe during the July 2015 flyby of the dwarf planet. It is named after the Viking program.\n"}
