{"id": "18961719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18961719", "title": "Alberto Cortina", "text": "Alberto Cortina\n\nAlberto Cortina de Alcocer (born January 20, 1947, in Madrid, Spain) is a Spanish businessman. Through his holding Percacer, he is co-owner, with his cousin Alberto Alcocer, of Alcor Holding, the owner of 12.5% of Grupo ACS, the biggest construction company in the world by sales with 2014 revenues of USD 50b, and of 21% of Ence, the largest paper pulp and biomass energy company in Europe. He has appeared several years in Forbes List of Billionaires with USD 1.4 billion.\n\nCortina studied Law at the Universidad Complutense de Madrid. His life has run parallel to that of his cousin Alberto Alcocer. In Spain both cousins are commonly referred to as \"The Albertos\", as they both married two sisters and ran their wives business empire for 20 years. \n\nIn 1969 he married Alicia Koplowitz. After that, he and his cousin started working for Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas, the company founded by Alicia's father.\nBy the year 1976 he became CEO of the company.\n\nDriven by the talent of Cortina and Alcocer, and through a never before tried diversification from its core building business into other sectors, the company grew greatly in value over a period of 18 years. This growth was accomplished in spite of the Spanish crisis that took place between the years of 1973 and 1985. The company that was having a turnover of 1,000 million pesetas when Alberto joined it, became a diversified group of over 30 companies, with a total turnover of close to 300,000 million pesetas and a valuation of USD 3b.\n\nIn 1978, both Albertos acquired 5% of Banco de Fomento, belonging to Banco Central. Three years later, they acquire a significant stake in Portland Valderrivas, a cement company owned by Banesto, on which they placed Alberto Cortina's brother, Alfonso Cortina, as head of the company.\n\nIn 1982 they acquired Banco Zaragozano. Later, in 1988, together with KIO Group they created Cartera Central which had a significant stake in Banco Central and two seats on its board of directors. They tried to take over the bank Banco Central but were blocked in their attempt by the Government due to anti-monopoly rules. Banco Zaragozano was valued in USD 15m at acquisition and they sold it for over USD 2b to Barclay's Bank in 2003.\n\nIn 1997, Alberto sold his brewing business San Miguel that he and his brother had inherited from their father to the consortium of Danone and Mahou.\n\nIn 1998, both \"Albertos\" took at a controlling stake in ACS Group, today's largest construction and services group by revenues, with sales of EUR €40b worldwide in 2015. Among its subsidiaries are the German construction company Hochtief, Australian conglomerate CIMIC Group, Spanish construction company Dragados, Spanish electrical engineering Cobra and waste management company Urbaser. The executive chairman of ACS, Florentino Perez is also the chairman of Real Madrid Football Club.\n\nIn 2000 he married Elena Cué, with whom he had a daughter in 2006.\n\nIn 2010 \"Forbes\" magazine included Alberto Cortina in their billionaires list ranking as the 828th wealthiest man in the world.\n\nIn June 2015 Banque de Dakar starts to provide financial services at its headquarters in the capital of Senegal and providing banking services at a Pan African level focusing in the UEMOA region. The bank is controlled by the BDK Financial Group led by Cortina along with various relevant shareholders. In February 2016 Alfredo Sáenz Abad is appointed president of the bank and in March he acquires 5% of BDK's shares.\n\nAlberto Cortina has held the following titles:\n\n"}
{"id": "26084280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26084280", "title": "Babis Vovos", "text": "Babis Vovos\n\nBabis Vovos (Greek: Μπάμπης Βωβός) is a Greek businessman in the field of construction. He is the owner of the Greek company Babis Vovos Constructions.\n\nOn the 22nd February, 2013, the Greek property developer tycoon was arrested - http://english.ruvr.ru/2013_02_22/Greek-property-developer-tycoon-arrested/\n\nOn the 20th March, 2018, it was announced in the Greek media that his private residence would be put to auction - http://news.in.gr/economy/article/?aid=1500207219 (in Greek)\n\n"}
{"id": "10135390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10135390", "title": "Bill Bidwill", "text": "Bill Bidwill\n\nWilliam V. Bidwill, Sr. (born July 31, 1931) is an American businessman. He is the principal owner and chairman of the Arizona Cardinals of the National Football League (NFL). He was co-owner from 1962 for ten seasons with his brother Charles Jr. and has been sole owner since 1972.\n\nBorn in Chicago, Illinois, Bidwill and his older brother Charles were adopted by Charles and Violet Bidwill. Bidwill attended Georgetown Preparatory School, then enlisted in the U.S. Navy until 1956. He went to college at Georgetown University, and after his graduation, moved to St. Louis a few months before the Cardinals moved there.\n\nCharles Bidwill purchased the team, then known as the Chicago Cardinals, from Dr. David Jones in 1933. After his death at age 51 in 1947, his widow authorized business partner Ray Bennigsen to carry on management of the team. Violet Bidwill married St. Louis businessman Walter Wolfner in 1949 and he later became managing director.\n\nPrior to the 1960 season, Violet moved the Cardinals to St. Louis. Charles Jr. and Bill inherited the team after their mother's death in January 1962, and served as co-owners for ten seasons, until Bill purchased it outright in 1972. Among NFL franchises, only the Chicago Bears and New York Giants have been controlled by one family longer than the Cardinals.\n\nBidwill's ownership has been marked by little success. In his years as at least part-owner, the Cardinals have only made the playoffs eight times (1974, 1975, 1982, 1998, 2008, 2009, 2014, and 2015). He moved the team to Phoenix, Arizona, prior to the 1988 season after St. Louis refused to build a new stadium to replace Busch Memorial Stadium, in spite of the fact that the team was well supported by the local fans. Bidwill had also publicly pledged to support a future effort to gain an expansion franchise for St. Louis. Instead, he voted to approve a new franchise in Jacksonville, Florida. However, St. Louis eventually gained a new franchise anyway, the relocated Los Angeles Rams in 1995. The Rams returned to Los Angeles in 2016.\n\nBidwill had a reputation for running the Cardinals rather cheaply; the Cardinals had one of the lowest payrolls in the league for many years. Following the move to State Farm Stadium in 2006, the team began to spend more money. The increased revenue paid off in 2008, when the Cardinals won their division for the first time since 1975 (when the team was based in St. Louis), hosted a playoff game for only the second time in franchise history (the previous coming in 1947 as a Chicago team) and advanced to Super Bowl XLIII. They won two more division titles in 2009 and 2015.\n\nIn recent years, Bidwill has ceded most day-to-day control over the Cardinals to his sons Michael and Bill Jr., who serve as team president and vice president, respectively. Bidwill also has two other sons, Patrick and Tim, and a daughter, Nicole. After the death of Ralph Wilson in March 2014, Bidwill became the longest-tenured owner in the NFL.\n\n"}
{"id": "5329896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5329896", "title": "Bur Dubai", "text": "Bur Dubai\n\nBur Dubai (in Arabic: بر دبي ) is a historic district in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, located on the western side of the Dubai Creek. The name literally translates to \"Mainland Dubai\", a reference to the traditional separation of the Bur Dubai area from Deira by the Dubai Creek. This is because Bur Dubai historically consisted of all districts between the western bank of the Creek and Jumeirah. The Ruler's Court is located in the district adjacent to the Grand Mosque.\n\nThe district is home to several mosques including the Grand Mosque with the city's tallest minaret, and the blue tiled Iranian Mosque. The country's only Hindu temple is situated between the Grand Mosque and the Creek.\n\nIt is home to several popular places for tourists including renovated historic buildings and museums. The district has many shopping streets and souqs (or souk), including the textile souq near the abra boat station, though most of the well known souqs are located in Deira.\n\nThe Al Bastakiya historic area is located to the east of Al Fahidi Fort (now home to Dubai Museum) and features old courtyard housing which are identifiable with their wind towers. Shindagha to the north west, located between Bur Dubai, the creek, and the sea is the historic location of the ruler's house on the peninsula facing the sea and the creek.\n\nBetween 2013 and 2016, the Dubai Creek was extended back to the sea, turning Bur Dubai into an island. Bur Dubai is a popular living area consisting of several apartment buildings.\n\nThe Dubai Metro Red Line goes through Bur Dubai connecting with the airport.\n"}
{"id": "4658132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4658132", "title": "Columbus Castings", "text": "Columbus Castings\n\nBuckeye Steel Castings was a Columbus, Ohio steelmaker best known today for its longtime president, Samuel P. Bush, who was the grandfather of President George H.W. Bush and great-grandfather of President George W. Bush.\n\nBuckeye, named for the Ohio Buckeye tree, was founded in Columbus as the Murray-Hayden Foundry, which made iron farm implements. Finding success manufacturing iron railroad car couplers, the name changed to the Buckeye Automatic Car Coupler Company in 1891 and Buckeye Malleable Iron and Coupler Company in 1894. Eventually demand for stronger coupling assemblies led to a switch to steel and the name Buckeye Steel Castings. \n\nThe business was closely associated with rail baron E.H. Harriman and for some time was controlled by Frank Rockefeller, the brother of oil magnate John D. Rockefeller. In 1901 Buckeye hired Samuel Prescott \"S.P.\" Bush as general manager. Bush, a graduate of Stevens Institute of Technology, had worked his way up from apprentice mechanic at the locally based Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railroad to superintendent of motive power at that railroad and, briefly, the Milwaukee Road. In 1908 Rockefeller departed and Bush took over as president, a job he would hold until 1928. During this period Bush became known as a top industrialist and had political influence in Washington, D.C..\n\nBush had an advanced business outlook for his day and implemented many modern management techniques as well as an unusually generous working environment.\n\nIn 1967, the parent company Buckeye International, Inc. was formed, and then acquired in 1980 by Worthington Industries through a stock merger. Worthington sold Buckeye Steel in 1999, but it went bankrupt in 2002.\n\nThe former president of Worthington, Donald Malenick, formed an investment group to purchase the assets of Buckeye, and has reopened the business as Columbus Steel Castings. Columbus Steel Castings closed in bankruptcy in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26467136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26467136", "title": "Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores", "text": "Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores\n\nThe National Securities Market Commission (in ) (often abbreviated as CNMV) is the Spanish government agency responsible for the financial regulation of the securities markets in Spain. It is an independent agency that falls under the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness.\n\nThe CNMV was established in 1988 as part of a major reform of Spanish financial sector with the passing of law 24/1988 also known as the \"Stock Market\" act. Laws 37/1998 and 44/2002 have updated the powers and responsibilities of the agency establishing a regulatory framework to meet the requirements of the European Union. It also allowed for the development of the Spanish stock market in the European environment, incorporating new measures for the investor protection.\n\nOn 23 May 2008, the then second vice-president and finance minister, Pedro Solbes, announced in the Economic and Financial Committee of Congress that the government was planning a realignment of responsibilities for the regulation of the financial system as agreed by finance ministers of the European Union (ECOFIN). The project was expected to separate prudential and supervisory regulation to improve efficiency in monitoring the solvency and competitiveness of financial intermediaries as well as market transparency.\n\nThe Bank of Spain, would have taken over some of CNMVs responsibilities and would be required to ensure the creditworthiness not just of banks and savings banks, but also from other financial institutions, including insurance companies and investment institutions.\n\nHowever almost a year and half after the announcement, on 19 September 2009, a digital newspaper that echoes the forecast said that the law on the unification of financial supervisors was due to reach Parliament in early 2010, but neither parliamentarians nor the bodies concerned had any time on their agenda to perform such a reform. According to sources from the Ministry of Economy, the restructuring will have to wait for a decision in the European Union, which is studying the matter with a view to adopting a common format that could actually be more similar the current system.\n\nThe aim of the CNMV is to ensure stability and transparency of financial markets, protect investors and make sure that brokers and intermediaries behave correctly.\nIn exercising its powers the CNMV received a significant amount of information, much of which is contained in official records. This is considered public information.\n\nAction by the CNMV as a supervisory body is mainly focused on:\n\n\nIn addition the CNMV exercises prudential supervision by seeking to ensure that the system is solvent and transactions are secure.\nThe CNMV is also responsible for assigning the ISIN codes for all securities issued in Spain.\n\nThe Spanish securities market was worth 22.65 million euros in 2007 an increase from 13.72 million euros in 2006 according to the supervisor's annual accounts published in the official gazette (Boletín Oficial del Estado)\n\nThe CNMV's is a member of both the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) and the Committee of European Securities Regulators (CESR) and is actively involved in both organisations and its working groups. They bring together the banking, securities and insurance sectors worldwide and within Europe respectively.\n\nThe CNMV also performs an important task of advising and assisting the Spanish authorities in their participation in the institutions of the European Union and is a regular adviser to the Directorate General of Treasury and Financial Policy and the European Securities Committee. It also participates in the review of company law and stock market participant.\n\nIt also provides technical assistance to the European Commission in assessing the financial sectors of accession countries that want to join the European Union.\n\nIn Ibero-America, the CNMV is working closely with the Iberoamerican Institute of Securities Market (IIMV) in helping to foster progress and modernization of securities markets in Latin America and developing training programs for cooperation.\n\nThe CNMV is also involved in the Iberian Electricity Market (MIBEL), which was established by agreement between Spain and Portugal in 2004, and in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), whose work on Principles of Corporate Governance it has been working with very actively.\n\nThe CNMV consists of a Council, an advisory committee and an executive committee. In addition there are three general managers: one for monitoring entities, one for other market supervision and one for legal service.\n\nThe CNMV is governed by a Board and consists of the following members:\nAppointments lasts four years, following which may be renewed once.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1408610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1408610", "title": "Confederation of European Business", "text": "Confederation of European Business\n\nThe Confederation of European Business, shortened BusinessEurope, is a lobby group representing enterprises of all sizes in the European Union (EU) and six non-EU European countries. Members of the confederation are 39 national industry and employers' organizations. The current president of the confederation is Pierre Gattaz, while the Director General is Markus J. Beyrer.\n\nBased in Brussels, the confederation is officially recognised as a social partner at European level, is involved in a range of economic and social decisions and cooperates with a number of stakeholders and business partners. It promotes the interests of corporate citizens to ensure that public policy supports the European economy.\n\nIn 2014, Unilever terminated its membership in BusinessEurope's Advisory and Support Group, because it opposed the organisation's stance on carbon dioxide emissions.\n\nThe association is led by a president. In the past, the following persons used to hold this office:\n\n\nBusinessEurope is administrated by a director general. Markus J. Beyrer has been holding this position since 2013.\n\nThe Confederation of European Business organises the annual BusinessEurope Day and European Business Summit in Brussels.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34793176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34793176", "title": "Copyright transfer agreement", "text": "Copyright transfer agreement\n\nA copyright transfer agreement is a legal document containing provisions for the conveyance of full or partial copyright from the rights owner to another party. It is similar to contracts signed between authors and publishers but does not normally involve the payment of remuneration or royalties. Such agreements are a key element of subscription-based academic publishing, and have been said to facilitate the handling of copyright-based permissions in print-only publishing. In the age of electronic communication, the benefits of copyright transfer agreements have been questioned, and while they remain the norm, open licenses as used in open access publishing have been established as an alternative.\n\nCopyright transfer agreements became common in the publishing business after the Copyright Act of 1976 in the United States and similar legislation in other countries redefined copyright as accruing to the author from the moment of creation (rather than publication) of a work. This required publishers to acquire copyrights from the author in order to sell the works or access to it, and written statements signed by the rights owner became necessary in order for the copyright transfer to be considered valid.\n\nGranting publishers the permission to copy, display and distribute the work is necessary for publishers to act as such, and copyright transfer agreements across a wide range of publishers have such provisions. The reach of copyright transfer agreements can go well beyond that, and \"[s]ome publishers require that, to the extent possible, copyright be transferred to them.\" This means that no one, including the authors, can reuse text, tables, or figures in other publications without first getting permission from the new copyright owner.\n\nCopyright transfer agreements also ask that the authors confirm to actually own the copyright for all the materials pertaining to a given act of publishing, and that the item for which the copyright is to be transferred has not been previously published and is not under consideration to be published elsewhere, to limit the frequency of duplicate publication and plagiarism.\n\nCritics have said that the copyright transfer agreement in commercial scholarly publishing is \"as much about ensuring long–term asset management as it is about providing service to the academic community\" because the practice seems to grant favor to the publisher in a way that does not obviously benefit the authors. Copyright transfer agreements often conflict with self-archiving practices or appear to do so due to ambiguous language.\n\nIn 2017, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in Johnson v. Storix upheld a copyright transfer involving no written assignment. In that case, the Author, Anthony Johnson sold software as a sole proprietor and incorporated his company in 2003 as Storix, Inc. Eight years later he gave 60% share of the corporation to his employees, who later removed him from the company and claimed ownership of the copyrights. The court upheld a jury decision that Johnson had made an oral agreement to transfer the copyright to the corporation upon its formation based on an annual report he wrote and signed a year later stating that he had transferred “all assets” from his sole proprietorship. The jury rejected Johnson's claim he intended only to transfer the license to sell the software, and further decided that Johnson became a work for hire upon forming the corporation, thereby also forfeiting all rights to his derivative works. This is the first case in which a document, not itself a contract or agreement and containing no reference to the copyrights, was considered a “note or memorandum” of copyright transfer, and the first time a sole owner of a company was designated a work for hire for copyright ownership purposes. This serves as a lesson that a “writing” required by the Copyright Act need not necessarily be “clear”, but may contain ambiguous language which can be interpreted by course of dealing by third parties to the alleged transaction. \n\nCopyright transfer agreements are one way to govern permissions based on copyright. Since the advent of digital publishing, various commentators have pointed out the benefits of author-retained copyright, and publishers have started to implement it using license agreements, wherein the author of the work retains copyright and gives the publisher the permission (exclusive or not) to reproduce and distribute the work. A third model is the so-called \"browse-wrap\" or \"click-wrap\" license model that is becoming more and more popular in the form of the Creative Commons licenses: it allows anyone (including the publisher) to reproduce and distribute the work, with some possible restrictions. Creative Commons licenses are used by many open access journals.\n\nCopyright transfer agreements are usually prepared by the publisher, and some print journals include a copy of the statement in every issue they published. If authors wish to deviate from the default phrasing – \"e.g.\", if they want to retain copyright or would not like to grant the publisher an exclusive right to publish – they can specify desired modifications, either by editing the document directly or by attaching an addendum to a copy of the default version. Publisher policies on the acceptance of such addenda vary, though. Some institutions offer instructions and assistance for staff in creating such addenda.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4354303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4354303", "title": "Downtown St. Catharines", "text": "Downtown St. Catharines\n\nThe downtown core of St. Catharines, Ontario, Canada is defined by the city as the area between Highway 406 on the west and south, Geneva Street on the east until it reaches St. Paul Street then Niagara Street north until it meets Welland Avenue.\n\nIt an historical area of the city, as well as a significant cultural and entertainment destination, playing host to several bars and restaurants along St. Paul and James Streets, and the popular Niagara Grape & Wine Festival and Grand Parade in September. Various retail and commercial businesses, are found throughout the core, as well as government, financial and law offices. Since 2015, the neighbourhood is home to the Marilyn I. Walker School of Fine and Performing Arts, a campus of Brock University.\n\nIntersecting Native American trails, at the confluence of Dick's Creek and 12 Mile Creek, laid the foundation of the downtown streets as they appear today. Among them remains the largest and most historically significant of the city, St. Paul Street. Construction of the first and second Welland Canals behind St. Paul Street quickly elevated the area into a prosperous hub for commerce and industry in the Niagara Region.\n\nLike many downtowns in North America, the area experienced significant decline as shopping malls and power centres in the suburbs took over as major shopping destinations. Citizens of St. Catharines often complained of the lack of parking and inconveniences associated with one-way streets in the core. Today, the downtown is experiencing a modest turnaround thanks to public and private investment in the areas surrounding St. Paul and James Streets, as well as the former Lower Level Parking Lot.\n\nOn April 3, 2006, St. Catharines City Council voted in favour of returning two-way traffic to the downtown core, at an anticipated cost of $2 million. At the time, two-way traffic was promoted as one way of making the downtown streets safer, slowing down traffic and boosting business. By October 2009, most of the conversion work was completed. The addition of two-way traffic, especially to St. Paul Street, played a role in the Ontario Wine Council's decision to modify the Niagara Wine Route to pass through downtown St. Catharines in 2014.\n\nOn June 16, 2006 the Province of Ontario released a Growth Plan under the \"Places to Grow Act, 2005\", of which was born the Growth Plan for the Greater Golden Horseshoe in 2017. In the plan, Downtown St. Catharines is identified as one of 22 Urban Growth Centres for the province, given a growth target of 150 residents and jobs combined per hectare by 2031.\n\nSince the Places to Grown Act, municipal and regional governments have invested heavily in infrastructure projects in the downtown core. A detailed inspection and analysis of the Burgoyne Bridge in 2010 revealed the need for a new span over Twelve Mile Creek. Construction on the new signature bridge, which features a steel truss-arch, began in 2014 with an estimated budget of $91.35 million, and was completed in 2016. In the nearby Lower Level Parking Lot, construction began in 2013 on the Marilyn I. Walker School of Fine and Performing Arts, a new campus of Brock University. Completed in 2015, the school operates alongside the FirstOntario Performing Arts Centre, a municipal cultural project, built on adjacent lands. The facilities house 500 full-time students in new buildings along St. Paul Street and the historic Canada Hair Cloth building.\n\nThe grand opening of the city's new spectator arena, the Meridian Centre, took place on October 21, 2014. The 5,300 seat arena was built by the municipality to house the Niagara IceDogs ice hockey team of the Ontario Hockey League. The venue also plays host to numerous events throughout the year such as sporting events, concerts, trade shows and conferences.\n\nThe downtown's extensive history left an impressive showplace of heritage sites in the core. Architectural landmarks reveal the stories behind St. Catharines varying roles as the former seat of Lincoln County, a popular health-spa destination, and the premiere retail centre for Niagara. \n\n\nThe St. Catharines Economic and Tourism Services department, with support from the Ontario Ministry of Tourism, launched the Heritage Corridor Project in 2004. The goal of the project is to draw tourists off the Niagara Wine Route into St. Catharines' downtown and other historically significant areas.\n\nThe downtown core of St. Catharines is served by the St. Catharines Transit on numerous routes. The central bus terminal is located downtown. The terminal also has charter buses taking you to numerous cities around the region including Welland & Thorold, as well as Greyhound buses towards Toronto.\n\nA few streets within the St. Catharines Downtown Core where the houses are primarily used for residential purposes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8987574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8987574", "title": "Equity-indexed annuity", "text": "Equity-indexed annuity\n\nAn indexed annuity (the word \"equity\" previously tied to indexed annuities has been removed to help prevent the assumption of stock market investing being present in these products) in the United States is a type of tax-deferred annuity whose credited interest is linked to an equity index — typically the S&P 500 or international index. It guarantees a minimum interest rate (typically between 1% and 3%) if held to the end of the surrender term and protects against a loss of principal. An equity index annuity is a contract with an insurance or annuity company. The returns may be higher than fixed instruments such as CDs, money market accounts, and bonds but not as high as market returns. Equity Index Annuities are insured by each State's Guarantee Fund; coverage is not as strong as the insurance provided by the FDIC. For example, in California the fund will cover \"80% not to exceed $250,000.\" The guarantees in the contract are backed by the relative strength of the insurer. \n\nThe contracts may be suitable for a portion of the asset portfolio for those who want to avoid risk and are in retirement or nearing retirement age. The objective of purchasing an equity index annuity is to realize greater gains than those provided by CDs, money markets or bonds, while still protecting principal. The long term ability of Equity Index Annuities to beat the returns of other fixed instruments is a matter of debate.\n\nIndexed annuities represent about 30% of all fixed annuity sales in 2006 according to the Advantage Group.\n\nEquity-indexed annuities may also be referred to as fixed indexed annuities or simple indexed annuities. The mechanics of equity-indexed annuities are often complex and the returns can vary greatly depending on the month and year the annuity is purchased. Like many other types of annuities, equity-indexed annuities usually carry a surrender charge for early withdrawal. These \"surrender periods\" range between 3 and 16 years; typically, about ten.\n\nSee Indexed annuity\n\nThe indexed annuity is virtually identical to a fixed annuity except in the way interest is calculated. As an example, consider a $100,000 fixed annuity that credits a 4% annual effective interest rate. The owner receives an interest credit of $4,000. However, in an equity-indexed annuity, the interest credit is linked to the equity markets. For example: Assume the index is the S&P 500, a one-year point-to-point method is used, and the annuity has an 8% cap. The $100,000 annuity could credit anything between 0% and 8% based on the change in the S&P 500. The cap, 8% in this example, is determined by how much is afforded by budget which is usually at or near the 4% fixed rate. If fixed rates increase, it would be expected that the cap would increase as well.\n\nThis allows the owner the security of knowing that the $100,000 is safe but rather than receiving the sure 4% they can receive up to 8%. Historically since 1950, an 8% cap on the S&P 500 has resulted in an average interest credit of 5.2%, very similar to what is considered the \"risk free rate of return\" delivered by T-bills, 5.1% over a similar period. The return may also be adjusted by other factors such as the participation rate and market value adjustments to cover bring the cost of the option into the budget available. \n\nThis means the owner of the indexed annuity now has assumed more risk than a fixed annuity but less than being in the equity markets themselves. The result is that the expected yield (risk adjusted) for an indexed annuity is higher than a fixed annuity, CD, etc. However, the expected yield of being in the market is higher for several reasons. \n\nThe principal (in our example the $100,000) is at risk of loss when owning the index outright. Equity Index Annuity does not participate in dividends as owning the index outright would and similar there are no ongoing transaction expenses or fees. Interest is compounded as frequently as when interest is credited and this is almost always annually but contracts are available that credit interest over a 5-year term.\n\nThe taxation of the gains in an indexed annuity is identical to that of fixed annuities. Taxes are deferred until monies are received and then interest is withdrawn first and taxed as ordinary income. If the index was owned outright, gains would not be tax deferred, but may qualify for the more favorable capital gains tax rate.\n\nThis way of linking to an equity index like the S&P 500 or Dow Jones is accomplished through an option, usually a call option. A call option is the right- but not the obligation- to purchase something at a future date for a specified price.\n\nThe naming convention for options used by the insurance industry is different from that of Wall Street, but the options are structurally identical. Here's a sample of options commonly seen in indexed annuities:\n\n\nThe options in indexed annuities can usually be fit into the following taxonomy developed by the National Association of Fixed Annuities.\n\n\"Term\" - the length of time before option matures, usually one year. Two, three, four, and ten are also prevalent in the market. Some longer term options are but have a \"highwater\" feature that allows interest to be credited more frequently. An example of this would be a ten-year Monthly Average option that credits interest each year if there is a gain.\n\n\"Index\" - the equity, stock, bond, or other index to which the interest credit is linked.\n\n\"Gain formula\" - the method used to determine the gain in the index. Point to point, monthly averaging, daily averaging are the most common methods of calculating the gain. For example, of the S&P 500 index starts at 1120 and ends at 1300 then the point to point gain is 16.07%.\n\n\"Adjustment method\" - the way the option is limited in order to reduce the cost (and subsequent return) so that it becomes affordable. As an example the point to point option may cost 7% of the account value but will be \"adjusted\" to reduce the cost.\n\n\"Market value adjustment\" - the company may reserve the right to adjust the value of your account based on current market conditions. This adjustment is most often applied to distributions, partial or complete withdrawals, and exchanges to other accounts. \n\nThe most common adjustments are cap, fee, participation rate or a combination of the three. Other adjustments are less common. In keeping with the preceding example and allowing for an 8% cap as the adjustment the policyholder would not receive the 16.07% point-to-point gain, but rather 8% as an interest credit.\n\nShould provide examples for:\nP2P with Participation Rate\nMonthly Averaging with Cap\nMonthly Averaging with Fee\n\nShould also link to the withdrawal benefits provided in variable annuities and indexed annuities at this point. These concepts were added because of the risk associated with the accumulation in both variable annuities and indexed annuities.\n\nWhile the taxes on gains are deferred, earnings are taxed at an individual's ordinary income tax rate as opposed to capital gains and qualified stock dividends which are tax at lower capital gains rates. Also annuities do not qualify for a step in basis at the owner's death while most stock, bond and real estate investments are. Any earnings will be tax at the beneficiary's ordinary income tax rate. \n\nNational Association for Fixed Annuities\n"}
{"id": "38419433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38419433", "title": "Fashion Malawi Edition", "text": "Fashion Malawi Edition\n\nFashion Malawi Edition or \"F.A.M.E\" is the first organization in Malawi that works to market and develop the Malawian fashion Industry through capacity building and professional development training. It was founded in 2010 by Zilanie Gondwe Nyundo and Inge Knapen to build a fashion in industry in Malawi after identifying voids in a previously underdeveloped industry. They are Malawi's leading fashion organization and a pioneer in Malawi's fashion industry. They regularly host national fashion shows in Malawi that have received public acclaim. This includes the Kia Malawi Fashion Show. They are credited for creating an industry which created space for fashion related businesses to grow in Malawi. They are credited for launching the career of fashion designer Lily Alfonso. In November 2012, they announced that they will host Malawi's first \" Malawi Fashion Week\".\n\nFAME has been supporting the fashion industry at the grassroots level since inception.This includes capacity building in the industry. They are credited for fostering the growth of a fashion industry in Malawi. Malawi has seen the growth of new fashion related businesses since their inception, including modelling agencies, fashion houses, and fashion photography.They also engage in professional development workshops, including the finance training for students to Don Bosco Technical College and Samalani Youth Center. In attempts to grow the industry, they also support and sponsor events by fashion organizations in Malawi.\n\nFAME creates a platform where the Malawi fashion industry can showcase their work. There events have attracted local, regional and international talent in its events. local talent has included Tuccie Creations, Memory Chimchere of the Diva Yn label, and Debbie Gadama of Phade label, Manuka Fashions, and Isaac Bukhu of Haus of Gola. International designers have included Peggy 'O' (Kenya) and Pallade Segapo (South Africa), Mustafa Hassanali (Tanzania), Mehmuna Ibrahim-Schumann (Mali). Fame organized a fashion show as a part of the African Movie Academy Awards nomination gala that took place in Malawi in March 2013.\n\nA leader in Malawi's fashion industry, in November 2012, FAME announced that it will host Malawi's first ever Fashion Week in 2013.\n\nFAME recognizes talent in Malawi by awarding the 'best designer' and 'top model'.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47827937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47827937", "title": "Federico Cerruti", "text": "Federico Cerruti\n\nFederico Cerruti (1 January 1922 – 15 July 2015) was a reclusive Italian art collector whose collection was described by \"Artribune\" as one of the best in Europe. He told his retainers to arrange his funeral before his death became public in order to avoid the \"useless gossiping and socialising crowd\" attending.\n\nFederico Cerruti was born in Genoa on 1 January 1922. His family were bookbinders who moved to Turin where the firm prospered despite its factory being destroyed by bombing during the Second World War. In 1943, Cerruti narrowly escaped death when a ship he should have been on, the battleship \"Roma\", was sunk by German aircraft.\n\nCerruti was brought up with a strong work ethic. He studied accountancy and expanded the family business of Legatoria Industriale Torinese to one of the largest bookbinders in Italy. The firm had the contract to bind the telephone directories of Italy. He lived above the office, and only slept at the villa he had built for him, once in 50 years. His assistant for 30 years was Annalisa Ferrari.\n\nCerruti's collection was described by \"Artribune\" as one of the best in Europe. It ranged from the Medieval period to works of the 20th Century. The first work he acquired was a drawing by the Russian Expressionist artist Wassily Kandinsky. He also owned ten works by modern Italian Metaphysical and Surrealist artist Giorgio de Chirico which hung in the dining room of his villa. In the main bedroom were late Medieval and early Renaissance paintings by Paolo Veneziano, Sassetta, and Bergognone. Cerruti often allowed his works to be shown at exhibitions and small groups of art lovers were allowed to view his collection.\n\nAppropriately, Cerruti also collected books in fine bindings. He owned the \"Atlas Maior\" by Joan Blaeu in 12 volumes and an edition of \"À la Recherche du Temps Perdu\" in an Art Deco design by Pierre Legrain.\n\nCerruti died on 15 July 2015. He never married and left no descendants. He told Annalisa Ferrari to arrange his funeral before his death became public in order to avoid the \"useless gossiping and socialising crowd\" attending. He was interred with an ivory crucifix and photographs of his mother and Padre Pio.\n\nAround 2013, Cerruti created the Fondazione FC in which he vested his collection and villa, as well as a capital sum.\n"}
{"id": "28558512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28558512", "title": "French company law", "text": "French company law\n\nFrench company law is the law governing corporations incorporated in France or under French corporate law.\n\nIn the wake of the French Revolution in 1791, the right to free registration for all private companies was proclaimed. There was a boom in registrations, but this was followed by a bust in 1793. The law was reversed until 1796 when the principle of free incorporation was established again.\n\nThe law was consolidated in Napoleon's \"Code de commerce\" of 1807 using a concession system. While previously public companies with special privileges were created by a special act of the state, the \"Code\" allowed the companies to be formed according to general company law rules. Specific state permission was still required. Article 33 recognised limited liability for members. The \"Code de commerce\" was applicable outside France in Baden and the Prussian Rhine province, and it came to serve as a model for all later European public company statutes. The first German public company statute was the Prussian Act of 1843, five years after the Prussian Act on railway enterprises of 1838. Under the \"Loi sur les Sociétés\" of 1867 France adopted a system for free registration of companies.\n\n"}
{"id": "27698855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27698855", "title": "Guangzhou Peugeot Automobile Company", "text": "Guangzhou Peugeot Automobile Company\n\nThe Guangzhou Peugeot Automobile Company (GPAC) is a former automobile manufacturer located in Guangzhou, China. It was a joint venture between the Guangzhou municipal government and the Peugeot brand of the French automobile manufacturer PSA Peugeot Citroën.\n\nThe company was founded on 26 September 1985 and was defunct by March 1997 when Peugeot sold their stake in the joint venture. \n\nCitroën, a sister brand in PSA Peugeot Citroën, already had a successful joint venture which began production in 1992, (Dongfeng-Citroën). In 2002, the Peugeot brand was reintroduced to China through Dongfeng. \n\nAfter the company had gone defunct, Honda joined with the Guangzhou government to establish its own joint venture company, Guangqi Honda Automobile.\n\nOne of the first foreign-Chinese joint auto-making ventures, over its eleven-year lifespan the company only recorded production of about 100,000 cars.\n\nManufacturing two models originally sold via fleet sales, its products were mostly used as taxis or by government employees. Fleet sales commenced in 1989, with a model line comprising the Peugeot 505 (1980 design) and 504 (1968 design).\n\nComponent localization targets, set to encourage creation of a local supply chain, exacerbated tensions. They were met late if at all, and while the French initially profited from parts sales, Chinese consumers saw increased component localization from inexperienced suppliers lead to inferior products. In spite of Chinese resistance, Peugeot repatriated profits, and cultural conflicts continued throughout. By 1993, a soured Peugeot saw its now-inferior models out-completed by better offerings with sales dropping to 2,544 while competing Shanghai VW built no less than 146,000 cars—fifty percent of the overall market. By 1996, the Guangzhou government decided it no longer wanted a French foreign partner. Peugeot removed itself in 1997, and Guangzhou Automotive chose to begin a new joint venture with Honda.\nPSA Peugeot Citroën held 22% ownership, with a total foreign ownership of 26% to 30%.\n"}
{"id": "37770031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37770031", "title": "Hans Breukhoven", "text": "Hans Breukhoven\n\nJohannes Arie \"Hans\" Breukhoven (31 October 1946 – 20 January 2017) was a Dutch businessman. He was the founder and president of Free Record Shop. He was the son of , father of five children and ex-husband of Connie Breukhoven (also known by her stage name Vanessa). Business magazine \"Quote\" estimated Breukhoven's fortune in the Quote 500 at €93 million.\n\nBreukhoven was born in Rotterdam. After leaving secondary school, he trained to become a steward. After completion, he worked two and a half years as a host on the Holland America Line.\n\nOn 15 October 1971, Breukhoven opened the first Free Record Shop at Broersveld in Schiedam. In 2008, the chain consisted of 182 shops in the Netherlands and 66 in Belgium. He was also a major shareholder of SnowWorld NV. He died on 20 January 2017 in London after a long time struggle with pancreatic cancer.\n"}
{"id": "35031769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35031769", "title": "Haregot Abbai", "text": "Haregot Abbai\n\nDejazmatch Haregot Abbai (Abay) KCVO (Knight Commander of the Victorian Order) (1909-1979) was an Eritrean businessman and politician.\nHe was member of political party known as \" “Mahber Fikre Hager” \" (Society for Love of Country) in Eritrea in the late 1940s. In 1952, following the Federation of Eritrea with Ethiopia, he was elected as a member of the newly created Eritrean Assembly. During the early days of the Federation (1952–55) he served in the positions of Director of Interior, Secretary of Justice and Secretary of Economy. In 1963, a year after the Federation ended and Eritrea was annexed by Ethiopia, he was appointed as the Mayor of Asmara (then the second largest city in Ethiopia). In 1974 with the onset of military dictatorship \" Derg \" in Ethiopia he was imprisoned in Addis Abeba along with most of former Emperor Haile Selassie cabinets, most regional governors, many senior military officers and other dignitaries where in 1979, he was killed by the military/socialist dictatorship in Ethiopia.\n"}
{"id": "21163118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21163118", "title": "Harry Henry", "text": "Harry Henry\n\nHarry Henry (11 March 1916 – 22 November 2008) was born in London on 11 March 1916, as the elder son of an accountant, who died in 1924. His mother brought up and provided for her two sons by working as a dressmaker. Henry was one of Britain's market research pioneers whose contributions to its acceptance and understanding won him an international reputation. He was the last survivor of the 23 founders of the Market Research Society (MRS), which he helped establish in 1947, and which now has 8,000 members in 50 countries. He married Mary Anstey, daughter of Vera Anstey, in 1938. She died in 1989, a year after they had celebrated their golden wedding anniversary.\n\nIn publishing, he was Marketing Director of the Thomson Organisation for nine years, where he also became a Deputy Managing Director. His influence was significant in pulling an old-fashioned conservative industry towards the appreciation and practice of marketing in newspapers and magazines, a benefit inherited by radio and television. He was the first to use the computer in a market research study. In 1988, he received the Market Research Society's rarely awarded Gold Medal. In 2004, he received the Advertising Association's prestigious Mackintosh Medal, awarded for outstanding personal and public service to the industry (in this case, only the third time in the previous fifteen years, and also in recognition of forty years as chairman of its Advertising Statistics Committee).\n\nHe attended two primary schools, one in Finchley and the other in Hackney and at the age of eleven was transferred to Upton House London County Council Central School, in Homerton. This type of school, an early experiment in state secondary education, had just been created for students up to the age of sixteen, who would otherwise be leaving school at fourteen, to extend their general education with the addition of some commercial subjects. He obtained the London Matriculation with Honours, and was awarded a Wedgewood Scholarship to City of London College in 1932. In 1934, he was awarded a Bursary that enabled him to enter the London School of Economics (LSE), where he read Economics, with Statistics as a subsidiary subject.\n\nIn those days, the LSE had less than 3,000 students. Henry served as Senior Treasurer of the Students' Union, Editor of the Clare Market Review, the Union's official magazine (after having edited and largely written Felix, an extremely unofficial one), Chairman of the Social Committee, Chairman of the Literary Society, Business Manager of the Review of Economic Studies (an academic journal), and Vice-Chairman of the Labour Society.\n\nTowards the end of this, he was involved in a libel action arising from an article he wrote in the University of London Union Magazine, pointing out that the gerrymandering involved in the election of the M.P. for London University gave control to the commercial correspondence colleges, whose interests were commercial rather than academic. Pressure from the judge (in chambers) led to a reluctant withdrawal, but there were no damages and he was convinced that Higher Authority had organised a cover-up.\n\nHe obtained a B.Sc. (Economics) in 1937, which qualified him for his first job. Colman Prentis & Varley, a relatively new and extremely small advertising agency, having gained two minor advertising accounts from Procter & Gamble (just beginning to make a presence felt in the UK, under the name of Thomas Hedley) learnt that it would need a market research department. They went to LSE to find somebody to fill this role, in the mistaken belief that what was required was a statistician. Henry was appointed to this post in 1938, and began to learn about market research, largely by experiment. He supplemented this as the London correspondent of the Boston Globe, providing a weekly column on the various social and other activities of the family of Joseph Kennedy, the then US ambassador to London.\n\nThe outbreak of war terminated these apprenticeships, and he was called up in 1940. After training in the ranks of the Royal Artillery, he was commissioned in 1941, and served as a regimental officer in various anti-aircraft batteries until 1943, when he transferred to the newly formed statistical branch of the Army as a Staff Officer. He was eventually posted to the Headquarters staff of Montgomery's 21st Army Group, where he played a modest part in the preparations for the invasion of Europe and in subsequent operations in France, Belgium and Germany.\n\nDuring the latter part of this period, he found the opportunity to use his market research skills in surveys of radio listening among the troops in that theatre of war, and was also responsible for the introduction of a number of what would later be referred to as Information Systems. One of these involved the production of a weekly abstract of administrative statistics for circulation throughout the theatre, and another, the devising and operating of 'TOCCI' (Theatre Officers Central Card Index), a system making use of Hollerith punched-card equipment to facilitate and speed up the demobilisation of officers.\n\nHenry was demobilised with the rank of Major in 1946. He returned to Colman Prentis & Varley, which had begun to move into the big league, first as Market Research Manager and shortly thereafter as Director and General Manager of Market Information Services Ltd, a subsidiary company that he created from scratch. By the time he left Market Information Services in 1954, it had grown into one of the top ten research companies in the country. These years were a period of rapid expansion in the field of market research as a whole, and he took his part in the development of many of the procedures which subsequently came into common use.\n\nHe was one of the 23 people who, in 1946, founded the Market Research Society, and played a major role both in the development of research techniques and in the promotion of market research as a tool of management. His particular interest in the media of communication was stimulated by the fact that he was responsible for the planning, conduct and production from 1947 to 1953 of the Hulton Readership Surveys, which were the predecessors of what became the National Readership Surveys. In this same area, he was responsible for the Hulton Tables of Advertisement Attention Value (1949), the development of the first system for using punched-card equipment to compute net press coverage (1949), and the first national surveys of readership among farmers (1947), among retailers (1948) and among children (1950). He was also Editor and joint author of The Rural Market (1948) and Patterns of British Life (1950).\n\nIn 1954, he joined McCann-Erickson Advertising Ltd. as Director of Research, and there built up a very sizeable research department, more closely integrated with the overall workings of the agency than was usual in those days. In particular, it became agency policy to persuade clients (particularly new clients) that full-scale research into their markets would result in more effective advertising. In 1959, he launched Marplan Ltd., a subsidiary company, which developed along these lines into what was one of the leading market research agencies in Great Britain. He organised the establishment of sister Marplan companies in Belgium, France and Germany, and was Chairman of the McCann-Erickson European Research Committee, while continuing as a senior member of the board of McCann-Erickson Ltd.\n\nDuring the mid-1950s, he had come to the conclusion that the existing techniques of market research, though adequate to the measurement of consumer behaviour, could not offer a reliable framework for marketing decisions. This led to the publication of his 1958 book, \"Motivation Research: Its Practice and Uses\", the first on the subject to be published in Europe. In this book, he drew on his experience to produce a practical guide to the rigorous scientific use of indirect techniques to produce insights which, he argued, could not be validly or even reliably derived from direct questioning or discussion.\n\nIn 1961, he was invited to join the Board of The Thomson Organisation Ltd, then principally (apart from its ownership of Scottish Television) the publisher of the Sunday Times and a raft of regional newspapers, as Director of Marketing, bringing marketing into newspaper publishing for the first time.\n\nIn 1962, he established the annual Thomson Medals and Awards for Advertising Research, which, by stimulating fresh thinking on media research problems, were responsible over the following ten years for the formulation and dissemination of a number of fundamental contributions to the theory and practice of advertising. Also in 1962, he took advantage of the relaxation by Nikita Khrushchev of the rigidity of Soviet rule to mount an unprecedented promotion exercise for the recently launched Sunday Times Colour Magazine, which did not immediately return satisfactory advertising revenue. This involved hiring a Tupulev 114 from Aeroflot in which to fly a plane-load of British business tycoons for the week-end, to meet and talk to their opposite numbers in Moscow.\n\nIn 1965, after successfully tendering for the contract from Post Office Telecommunications for the introduction into the UK of 'yellow pages' telephone directories, he set up and was the first Chairman of Thomson Yellow Pages Ltd.\nIn 1968, he and Mick Shields (of Associated Newspapers) were asked by Cecil King, then Chairman of the Newspaper Publishers' Association, to examine the practicability of the introduction into the Association of a marketing function as a means of improving the efficiency of the national newspaper industry and of enabling it better to withstand competition. This led to the establishment of a consortium, the 'NPA Marketing Executive' (which he chaired) and the recruitment of some specialist staff, but which petered out because, as he observed then and at intervals over the next thirty years, the national newspaper publishers would always prefer to hang separately than to hang together. But what might be regarded as its successor was launched in 2002 as the Newspaper Marketing Agency. He left the Thomson Organisation in 1970, setting up his own consultancy in 1971.\n\nAs Consultant Editor and subsequently as Editor-in-Chief of Admap, he consolidated that publication's reputation for intellectual stringency and authority, which sets it aside from the generality of newsy, even gossipy, advertising periodicals. In 1983, he joined Mike Waterson in setting up a modest venture to launch the quarterly Food & Drink Forecast. This developed rapidly, and had grown by 1998 into Information Sciences Ltd and become one of the world's largest private sector suppliers of economic information through its operating arm NTC Research Ltd, and one of the world's major publisher of advertising and media knowledge via Admap, many other trade journals and books, and the World Advertising Research Center.\n\nHis whole career was marked by innovation. He was the first to use a computer LEO, the first UK computer dedicated to business use) to analyse market research data (1959) and the first to do so in a readership survey (for the Western Mail in 1961). He carried out the first national study of public attitudes towards advertising (1954), the first survey of the poster audience (1948), the first readership survey among retailers (1948), the first national readership survey among children(1950), and the first qualitative study of regional newspaper readership (1963). In 1956, he acted as technical consultant to the first Italian national readership survey.\n\nNot surprisingly, he has been much in demand by industry and academic bodies. He was at various times (and sometimes simultaneously) Visiting Professor of Marketing at the University of Bradford and the Cranfield Institute of Technology (now University), and Professor of Marketing and Media Policy at the International Management Centres. He was for twelve years Chairman of the Marketing Communication Research Centre, an ongoing operation funded by a number of major marketing companies which was founded in Bradford in 1972, and subsequently moved to Cranfield when he did. He had chaired the technical sub-committee of the National Readership Survey, and the Research Committees of the Regional Newspaper Advertising Bureau and of British Posters, and was for forty years Chairman of the Research Committee of the Advertising Association. He was a Governor of the History of Advertising Trust, and a member of the editorial boards of the Journal of Advertising History and the International Journal of Advertising.\n\nAs a by-product of his business and academic activities, and in various managerial capacities, he wrote and lectured extensively, in a number of countries, on management, marketing, research and related topics.\nBooks published in earlier years, include \"Patterns of British Life\" (1948) and \"The Rural Market\" (1950).\n\nHis first book, written when he was 21 years old, \"The Insurance Man and his Trade\" (1938), in the 'Fact' library published monthly by Raymond Postgate (1/- cloth board, 6d. paper covers), suggested that burial insurance was 'the grossest form of systematic exploitation ever practised in this country'\n\nA selection of his papers up to 1971 having been published in that year under the title of \"Perspectives in Management, Marketing and Research\".\n\nLater publications included \"Behind the Headlines: Readings in the Economics of the Press\" (1978) and \"The Dynamics of the British Press, 1961 to 1984\" (1986) and he edited the massive Proceedings of the four International Readership Research Symposia of 1981, 1983, 1985 and 1988 (published as \"Readership Research: Theory and Practice\").\n\n"}
{"id": "22784057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22784057", "title": "Ho Teng Iat", "text": "Ho Teng Iat\n\nHo Teng Iat () (born 1950 in Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China) is a Macau entrepreneur and was a member of the Legislative Assembly of Macau. She is the daughter of Ho Tin (), the founder of Sociedade Industrial Ho Tin S.A.R.L, and she acts as the managing director and CEO of her father's company. She is also the vice-president of Industrial Association of Macao.\n\n"}
{"id": "2662486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2662486", "title": "Israel Discount Bank", "text": "Israel Discount Bank\n\nIsrael Discount Bank Ltd. () is one of Israel's three largest banks, with 260 branches, around 5,700 staff, and assets of ₪185 billion (US$48 billion).\n\nIsrael Discount Bank, formerly known as \"Eretz Yisrael Discount Bank\" or \"Palestine Discount Bank\", was founded on 5 April 1935 by Leon Recanati, a new immigrant from Greece who had been the head of the Jewish community of Salonica. His partners were Moshe Carasso and Yosef Albo. The bank operated in a store at 39 Yehuda Halevi St. in Tel Aviv. It was founded with a focus on foreign trade and with a deliberate Sephardic orientation so as to fill what Recanati perceived as a Sephardic void in the banking industry. Discount was unique in that it was open to private customers, whereas most other banks in Palestine at the time catered to merchants and institutions.\n\nShortly after the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Ottoman Bank, one of five large foreign banks active at the time, was merged into Discount Bank. Discount became Israel's second largest bank in 1952, with over 40 branches throughout the country. It retained that position until the merger of Bank Hapoalim with the credit and saving funds of the Histadrut in 1957. Discount opened its first commercial bank in the United States in 1962 in the form of Israel Discount Bank of New York, or IDB Bank. In 1965 Discount Bank was still described as a \"bastion of the veteran Sephardic establishment.\"\n\nIn 1952, the name of the bank was changed to Israel Discount Bank.\n\nDiscount began establishing a presence in Florida in the late 1970s, at the time specializing in international banking. In 2002 it expanded its Florida-based operations to encompass domestic banking as well, after taking over part of the Hamilton Bank of Miami, which had been seized and closed by regulators.\n\n\nMajor Holdings of the bank include Mercantile Discount Bank, Israel Discount Bank of New York, shares in First International Bank of Israel, the Israel Discount Mortgage Bank, and Israel Credit Cards–Cal.\n\nMercantile Discount Bank has its roots in the Anglo-Egyptian Bank, founded in 1864. Anglo-Egyptian operated four branches in Mandatory Palestine – in Jerusalem, Jaffa, Haifa, and Gaza. In 1925 Anglo-Egyptian was merged, along with Colonial Bank and the National Bank of South Africa, into Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas). A subsidiary, jointly and equally owned by Barclays and Israel Discount Bank, was established in 1971–1972 and named Barclays Discount Bank. Israel Discount acquired full ownership of Barclays Discount in 1993 and renamed it Mercantile Discount Bank.\n\nIsrael Discount Bank established a subsidiary in the U.S. in 1949. The first U.S. branch was opened on New York's Fifth Avenue in 1962 in a ceremony attended by Eleanor Roosevelt and New York City Mayor Robert Wagner. Eleanor Roosevelt opened the first account in the bank. In 1967–1968 it acquired the Hias Immigrant Bank and changed its name to IDB Trust Company. It became the Israel Discount Bank of New York in 1979. IDBNY has historically been tied to Jewish communities in Latin America, with funds from Chile, Brazil, Peru and Mexico accounting for 58% of the bank's deposits. It was ranked the 14th largest bank in New York in 2011 and was one of the few banks that did not suffer losses during the subprime mortgage crisis.\n\nIsrael Credit Cards–Cal (ICC–Cal, Visa–Cal, or simply Cal) is a credit card company in Israel that issues Visa, MasterCard and Diners credit cards. It was established in 1978 with Bank Leumi controlling 65% of the company and Discount Bank holding 35%. In 1998 the Antitrust Authority ordered Leumi and Discount to dissolve their partnership in order to increase competition. Leumi subsequently sold its stake to Discount, which in turn sold 24% to businessman Eliezer Fishman, 20% to First International Bank of Israel, and 5% to Harel Insurance Investments. By mid-2007 Discount had regained a controlling interest of 71.8% in the company.\n\nA Nielsen Report published in 2007 indicated that Cal ranked 82nd in credit card issuing in the world in 2005.\n\nThe bank's president is Lilach Asher- Topilsky. Joseph Bachar is the chairman of the board of directors.\n\nTo receive a permit for building the 30-story Bank Discount Tower to house the bank headquarters on Herzl Street in Tel Aviv, Bank Discount undertook the historical restoration of the Schiff House, built in 1910. The building reopened as the Museum of Banking and Tel Aviv Nostalgia, featuring interactive exhibits and old movie clips.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39574836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39574836", "title": "Jo Colruyt", "text": "Jo Colruyt\n\nJoseph Alphonse Marie Colruyt (2 August 1928, Uccle - 6 October 1994, Puget-Théniers) was a Belgian business owner. He was the son of Franz Colruyt, founder of the Colruyt company. Under his leadership, the company began the Colruyt retail chain known for its \"lowest price\" strategy.\n\nWhen Colruyt took over the company from his father Franz in 1958, the company was a dry food wholesaler. As it became more expensive to deliver small-volume orders to smaller stores, he opened the first \"Cash & Carry\" (briefly called 'Cash') in Hall in 1964: a self-service formula for independent shop keepers.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, Jo Colruyt chose to switch to retail and took over the self-service business Verloo in Elsene and launched his lowest prices policy, offering famous brands 10% cheaper.\n\nThis was when the struggle for efficiency, simplicity and economy typical of Colruyt stores began. At the time, the company was nearly broke. In 1976 all stores took the name Colruyt.\n\nAt the end of the 1970s and into the early 1980s, Colruyt launched various businesses with varying success. Examples include an auto rental agency, selling wooden homes of Finlandia Hus, 'Auto Frit' mobile chip stalls and 'Green Pepper' self-service restaurants. These businesses were suspended in the mid-1980s.\n\nIn the mid-1980s the Colruyt company was almost bankrupt, competing with newcomer Aldi. From 1988 the company slowly returned to profitability. Activities included the continuation of low prices on about 300 products. In 1987 the company replaced the punched card with price labels and 'full scanning' at the cash register. Replenishment, stock management and orders were automated with bar code scanners.\n\nColruyt introduced a horizontal corporate structure with as few managers as possible. He paid attention to employee participation and viewed training in personnel as important.\n\nAfter 35 years as the head of the company Jo Colruyt died in 1994. His son Jef Colruyt took over company management.\n\nIn 1992, Jo Colruyt was elected Manager of the Year by the magazine \"Trends\".\n"}
{"id": "54971409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54971409", "title": "Jurassic World Evolution", "text": "Jurassic World Evolution\n\nJurassic World Evolution is a business simulation video game developed and published by Frontier Developments. Based on the 2015 film \"Jurassic World\", the game was released on 12 June 2018, for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. In the game, players construct a dinosaur park on Las Cinco Muertes Archipelago, a group of five islands also known as the \"Five Deaths\". The game features more than 40 types of dinosaurs; their genes can be modified to introduce new features. Players are given contracts to fulfill by three divisions, Science, Security and Entertainment, allowing them to progress. A sandbox mode set on Isla Nublar, the setting of the film, can be unlocked.\n\nThe game was created by a development team of approximately 100 people with a budget of around £8 million. Its development began in 2016, after NBCUniversal approached Frontier Developments about creating a game to accompany the theatrical release of \"\". To do this, Frontier staff inspected different dinosaur models and reference materials sent by Universal, watched the \"Jurassic Park\" films, read the novels and fan theories. The team consulted paleontologist Jack Horner when they designed the dinosaurs. Jeff Goldblum, Bryce Dallas Howard and B. D. Wong reprised their roles from the \"Jurassic Park\" film series, voicing remarks to players and contributing to the game's narrative.\n\nAnnounced at Gamescom 2017, the game received a generally mixed critical reception. Critics praised its dinosaur designs and graphics, but the game's contracts, simulation and management gameplay were less well-received. The game's tutorial and learning curve were also criticized. Five weeks after its initial release, the game had sold one million copies through digital and physical sales. The game was supported with free updates and downloadable content upon release.\n\n\"Jurassic World Evolution\" is a business simulation game that allows the player to construct a Jurassic World dinosaur theme park with attractions and research facilities. Players must build an Expedition Center, which sends paleontologists to fossil dig sites to obtain dinosaurs' DNA material. DNA sequencing unlocks new dinosaurs and updates their statistics, such as lifespan and resilience. With enough DNA content, players can use the Hammond Research Center to breed and incubate dinosaurs. Players can also improve the dinosaurs' genes by integrating DNA from modern species with that of the dinosaurs to fill their gaps and allow them to evolve. Modifications to the dinosaurs' DNA change their base statistics, as well as everything from their level of aggressiveness to their appearance. The game features a terrain tool which allows players to modify the environment by planting trees and creating water sources.\n\nDinosaurs are the game's main attraction and income earner. The game features approximately 40 dinosaur species at launch. Players can name each dinosaur after they are incubated. Players need to build enclosures to contain dinosaurs for visitors' viewing. The needs of different dinosaurs, like the type of food they eat and the extent of the social interactions they require, must be met to keep them healthy and satisfied. Dinosaurs, controlled by artificial intelligence, will interact with each other and the environment. For instance, carnivores will attack carnivores of a different species, and they will hunt down herbivores. Players also need to construct various entertainment rides, as well as amenities like restaurants and shops to please the guests. An example of tourist attractions is the Gyrosphere or the monorail from \"Jurassic World\". Players can also use the game's photo mode to take pictures of dinosaurs, which help the park to earn money and publicity. Each entertainment facility and amenity comes with its own management system. Players are able to set and adjust entry fees as well as the number of staff present in each facility. Dinosaurs can be sold to earn additional income. \n\nVarious emergency situations may happen in the park, including power failures, unpredictable weather, and dinosaur breakouts, which must be addressed by players to ensure guests' safety and happiness. Players can build an ACU Center and a Ranger Station, which are responsible for maintaining the park's security. They can sedate escaped dinosaurs, medicate sick dinosaurs, resupply dinosaur feeders, transport dinosaurs, fix fences, and more. Players can also control vehicles from a third-person perspective such as helicopters and 4x4 trucks to complete these tasks. Emergency shelters to protect the guests, as well as other security structures like power network redundancies and storm warning centers, can be built. Many of these security facilities can be upgraded to strengthen their efficiency when dealing with emergencies.\n\nIn the career mode, the player's goal is to develop five-star parks across the fictional islands of the Las Cinco Muertes Archipelago. Dr. Ian Malcolm assists players throughout the game. Players will meet other key figures representing the three branches of the park's development: Entertainment, Security, and Science. Each of these characters tries to convince players to develop the park in accordance with their advice. They give players \"contracts\" to complete which include a series of goals and objectives. These contracts add narrative to the game, as well as provide rewards and reputation in their respective domains. Players are advised to keep a close eye on their reputation within each division. If a player's reputation within a division gets too low, that creates a sabotage in the player's park that will need to be attended to immediately. For instance, the park's power could be shut down allowing dinosaurs to break out, or a disease could be introduced to infect them. These divisions all feed into the parks' ratings. The five islands, each with different characteristics and challenges, will gradually unlock with sufficient positive park ratings. \n\nIsla Nublar — the island featured in \"Jurassic Park\", \"Jurassic World\", and \"\" — is the setting for a sandbox mode that is separate from the game's career mode. The sandbox mode is unlocked once a four-star park rating is achieved on Isla Matanceros, the starting island. Once this is accomplished, everything players have unlocked in career mode, such as building upgrades and dinosaurs, will transfer over to the sandbox; anything locked in career mode remains in the sandbox. In sandbox mode, players have unlimited funds, and they can set the weather and time of day at their parks. Challenge Mode, available in an update after the game's release, involves playing with adjustable levels of difficulty and limited money, in addition to other differences like fees and penalties against players.\n\n\"Jurassic World Evolution\" was developed and published by Frontier Developments, and is based on the 2015 film \"Jurassic World\". NBCUniversal had wanted a game to accompany the theatrical release of its 2018 film \"\" and approached Frontier Developments about creating it two years or so before the film's eventual release. Frontier Developments was also interested in creating a dinosaur game. \n\nThe game was created with a development team of approximately 100 people, on a budget of around £8 million. It was built using Frontier Developments' Cobra game engine. Universal Pictures provided the developers with dinosaur models from the films to allow for a high level of detail, as well as reference materials and audio. To aid in creating the game, the development team closely watched the films and read Michael Crichton's novels, \"Jurassic Park\" and \"The Lost World\", and fan theories. In addition, Universal and the team had discussions about various elements in the game. History from each of the films was added to the game. For example, Jeff Goldblum reprised his role as Ian Malcolm from the first two \"Jurassic Park\" films. Bryce Dallas Howard and B. D. Wong also reprised their roles from \"Jurassic World\".\n\n\"Tyrannosaurus rex\" was one of the first dinosaurs the development team began working on. For the \"T. rex\" roars, the game's sound team obtained audio samples from the films and then altered them for originality. The animation team then altered their \"T. rex\" roaring animations to fit the sound effects. To design the dinosaurs the development team primarily referred to the films for consistency, while incorporating some of the latest scientific discoveries to add to their designs. The team also studied birds and other animals to aid in designing the dinosaurs. In addition to their designs, dinosaur behavior was based on a combination of the films and scientific findings. Paleontologist Jack Horner, who served as an advisor on the films, was also consulted for advice on the game's dinosaurs. They were given bright and colorful hides based on new dinosaur research.\n\nIn February 2017, Frontier's CEO David Braben announced the company was working on a new project based on an existing Hollywood property. On 20 August 2017, the game was announced during Gamescom 2017. Later, on 7 October, footage showcasing the in-game engine was revealed during the first annual Frontier Expo. The game was digitally released for Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on 12 June 2018, coinciding with the theatrical release of \"Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom\". A free game update based on \"Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom\", with six dinosaurs from the film, was released on 22 June 2018. Physical copies of the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One version were distributed by Sold Out on 3 July 2018. In August 2018, Frontier Developments announced an upcoming patch that would alter the sizes of several dinosaurs to match their real-life and film counterparts. The update was released in September 2018, and included additional sandbox and gameplay options, as well as the addition of Challenge Mode. The first paid downloadable content (DLC), \"Secrets of Dr. Wu\", was released on November 20, 2018. The DLC introduced new story missions, research options and new dinosaur and hybrid species. On the same day, Frontier introduced new AI behaviors and a day-night cycle into the game via a free update.\n\nCritics praised the dinosaurs featured in the game. Sam Loveridge of \"GamesRadar+\" liked the variety as well as the cutscene that was displayed when a dinosaur is released from the incubation center. He enjoyed being able to control the jeep and the ACU helicopter from a third-person perspective, a mechanic he applauds for allowing players to relate to the dinosaurs. He added that he \"lost entire evenings to [the game] without even thinking\" due to its relaxing nature. Game Revolutions Paul Tamburro praised the dinosaurs' design, in particular, Frontier's attention to detail and the dinosaurs' animation. James Swinbanks of \"GameSpot\" agreed, praising the dinosaurs. He also enjoyed the need to learn each dinosaur's personality, requirements and behaviors, adding the process is \"surprisingly satisfying\". \"Game Informer\" s Daniel Tack liked that players can experiment with different genes, though he commented that it was not a \"freeform experience\". Dan Stapleton of \"IGN\" disagreed and felt that unlocking genes was tedious, describing the process as a series of \"mandatory robotic actions\". While he liked the dinosaur variety, he lamented the lack of \"pterosaurs\" and aquatic prehistoric reptiles at launch. \"Destructoid\"s Dam Roemer commended the inclusion of lesser- known dinosaurs species, singling out \"Giganotosaurus\" and \"Deinonychus\". \n\nThe simulation aspect of the game received mixed reviews. Loveridge held a positive opinion regarding dinosaur management, as each species has their own needs and niches that players must fulfill. He felt the park management aspect, including the construction of facilities and utilities, was \"minimal\". Tamburro compared the simulation to \"RollerCoaster Tycoon\" and \"Zoo Tycoon\". He enjoyed the chaos created when dinosaurs break out, but he was disappointed that dinosaurs did not attack the park's staff carrying out maintenance inside the enclosures. Philippa Warr of \"PC Gamer\" praised the dinosaurs but criticized the lack of attention to missions and individual guests' views and happiness ratings on the park. She also noted the simulation lacked depth, as buildings looked largely the same and the environment soon became stale. Swinbanks felt dealing with natural disasters and dinosaur breakout was exciting initially, but soon became repetitive. He also lamented the lack of new challenges presented in the later stage of the game. Tack criticized the tiresome aspect of simulation and the constant need to wait for objectives to be completed, comparing them to a mobile game. Describing the simulation as \"shallow\", Roemer criticized the lack of time constraints, cleanliness ratings, and a full day-night cycle. He was also disappointed by the small size of each island, which made park building \"unfulfilling\". Stapleton agreed, saying that the small islands limited players' creativity. He noted that players cannot speed up time in the game, a signature feature in many other simulators and builders, and criticized its exclusion as it forced players to wait aimlessly to get enough cash to perform an action.\n\nThe game's contracts garnered mixed opinions. Loveridge believed they helped introduced a structure to the game, though he commented that these missions did not form a cohesive narrative. Tamburro enjoyed the process of progressing from one island to the next, as each island has its own unique layout and landscape prompting players to create a new park that is different from the previous ones. He noted that the contracts helped players to unlock new items, but he felt they were not \"exciting\". Warr criticized the lack of variety featured in the missions, with different scenarios only presenting minor modifications and adjusting the difficult slightly. He also disliked the contracts for occasionally forcing players to complete missions that do not make sense, such as releasing a dinosaur to kill guests. Swinbanks also criticized three contract factions, adding that players' need to satisfy and balance all three parties demands as \"arbitrary\". Roemer praised Goldblum's performance, though he noted the overarching plot \"goes nowhere\". He described the game's progression system as \"awful\" and wished to skip them entirely.\n\nThe game's tutorial and guidance to players was criticized. Loveridge noted that certain missions were confusing with some late game objectives being presented too early, forcing him to dismiss them to progress. He singled out the tutorial section for being incompetent, failing to inform players about key aspects of the game such as power distribution and landscaping tools, which often create obstruction. and terrain errors that prevent players from constructing certain buildings and modifying the landscape. Warr noted pacing errors with the tutorials, saying that some of them showed up way too late.\n\nReviewers had mixed opinions of the game as a whole. Loveridge called it an intricate simulation game that fans of the series would enjoy, and he commended the many references to the film featured in the game. Tamburro agreed and called it the best \"Jurassic Park\"-themed game, though he noted that the game had more constraints than Frontier's previous park builder, \"Planet Coaster\". Initially impressed by the game, Warr was disappointed after extended play time feeling the game was lacking depth. Swinbanks noted that despite its shortcomings, the game was \"faithful\" to the franchise. He felt that it was \"a good park management sim in its own right\". Roemer felt that the game's development was rushed, and the lack of depth was problematic. Stapleton called it a \"bad\" game for being largely boring.\n\nFive weeks after its initial release, the game had sold one million copies through digital and physical sales.\n\nThe game was nominated for \"Best Audio Design\" at the 2018 Golden Joystick Awards.\n"}
{"id": "3966965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3966965", "title": "Kenneth Low", "text": "Kenneth Low\n\nKenneth Mang-Kwong Low is a Chinese-Fijian businessman and political leade. He unsuccessfully contested the parliamentary election of 1999 as a candidate for the General Voters Party (GVP) for the Western Central (General Electors) Communal Constituency. He also lost the Fiji national elections in 2001 for the Suva City (General Electors) Communal Constituency, where he was the candidate of the Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua (SDL), but was appointed to the Senate as one of nine nominees of the Fijian Prime Minister, and became Vice-President of the Senate on 28 February 2005, the first Chinese-Fijian to do so, following the appointment of the previous Vice-President, Dr Ahmed Ali to a Government Cabinet position.\n\nAccording to Low, he was born in Chongqing, China at the end of World War II and came to Fiji at the age of 10. He is a third generation Sino-Fijian with his grandfather Low Fong arriving in Fiji in 1908. Low's father Low Kum-Tim, came with his family to Fiji from Hong Kong in 1955 as a school teacher in the Lautoka Chinese School. In Hong Kong, Low Kum-Tim and his two partners, Chiang Yu-Loong and Ma Kok-Yu operated the \"Green Sea Farm\" for 5 years after leaving mainland China. The farm had received government awards for being the best and most progressive chicken farm, and Low Kum-Tim had published 3 books on \"Diseases of Chicken and the cure\" during this time from experience in raising chicken commercially.\n\nLow Kum-Tim was an artist in traditional chinese painting of the Chinese grand master Qi BaiShi school, and had held many exhibitions in the Fiji Arts Club in the 1960s together with Sec-Poy Fong, managing director of On Wah Chang, Suva. In June 1966, Low's parents and brothers migrated to the United States and lived in New York City. Low Kum-Tim continued his passion for painting in NYC and had held several exhibitions in New York and Philadelphia. He died in 1993 after battling Parkinson's disease for almost 20 years.\n\nIn 1966, Low left Fiji to study architecture at the University of New South Wales. After graduating in 1970, he remained in Sydney and commenced private practice in architecture from 1974. He was also a registered Gold Licensed Builder in N.S.W. from 1978. Low taught Architecture and Construction at the Sydney College of Technical and Further Education from 1976-1978. Whilst teaching, he also completed his Diploma in Education in 1978.\n\nLow returned to Fiji in 1983 and set up his private practice in architecture and construction until the 1987 coup. He then returned to Sydney and undertook construction contracts. But in 1991, Low again returned to Fiji, to practise architecture and also as a property developer and investor.\n\nLow, who is the founder (1994) and President of the All Chinese Business Association of Fiji, worked to promote trade directly between Fiji and China.\n\nDuring his time as Senator, Low joined much of the Fiji-born Chinese community in calling for a crackdown on illegal immigration (mainly from mainland China) which he said was detrimental to the local-born Chinese and the Chinese reputation as a whole. He alleged in the Senate on 8 November 2005 that corrupt immigration officials in Fiji were granting Fijian citizenship and visas to illegal Chinese immigrants, for financial and sexual favours, and called for a full inquiry into what was going on.\n\nLow retired from the Senate in June 2006 and did not participate in the 2006 national elections.\n\nLow is now actively promoting and fostering better relationships between Fiji and China. Today, Low remains the Chairman of Board of Directors, and is the current Manager of the Lautoka Chinese School. In 2003-2004, Low increased the number of classrooms and upgraded the school hall.\n"}
{"id": "44163304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44163304", "title": "LaPorte CPAs and Business Advisors", "text": "LaPorte CPAs and Business Advisors\n\nLaPorte CPAs and Business Advisors is an accounting and business advisory firm based in New Orleans, USA. From 1973 until 2010, the company was known as LaPorte Sehrt Romig & Hand in the Gulf Coast region marketplace and is commonly referred to as LaPorte. The firm sells audit, tax, accounting, and consulting services. It belongs to the RSM US Alliance of companies.\n\n2004 Merged with Smith, Huval & Associates, L.L.C., in Covington, Louisiana\n2007 Merged with The Gautreau Group, L.L.C., in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and established a Baton Rouge office.\n2010 Merged with Hidalgo, Banfill, Zlotnik & Kermali, P.C., in Houston, Texas, and established a Houston office\n2011 Changed firm name from LaPorte Sehrt Romig & Hand to LaPorte CPAs & Business Advisors\n2015 Merged with Beyer, Stagni & Company in Houma, Louisiana\n\n\n\"New Orleans CityBusiness\" included LaPorte on its list of “Best Places to Work” for seven consecutive years (2007 to 2015).\n\nNamed to New Orleans Times-Picayune 2016 Top Workplaces-midsize Employers List\n\nLaPorte is structured as A Professional Accounting Corporation (APAC).\n\n"}
{"id": "12760788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12760788", "title": "Lewis Bergman Maytag", "text": "Lewis Bergman Maytag\n\nLewis Bergman Maytag I (August 24, 1888 – August 8, 1967) was the Maytag Corporation president. He was the son of founder, Frederick Louis Maytag I, and he had a brother, Elmer Henry Maytag. He married and had as his son Lewis Bergman \"Bud\" Maytag, Jr. (1926-1990). \n"}
{"id": "15355792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15355792", "title": "Lord Baltimore Hotel", "text": "Lord Baltimore Hotel\n\nThe Lord Baltimore Hotel is located at 20 West Baltimore Street, on the northeast corner of the intersection with North Hanover Street, and one block west of the main downtown thoroughfare of North Charles Street, in the downtown area of Baltimore, Maryland.\n\nThe hotel was designed by William Lee Stoddart and opened on December 30, 1928. The 22 story hotel, designed in the French Renaissance style, has a dark red brick veneer with limestone trim over a steel frame. The building, which is 289 feet tall, is topped with a tower featuring a mansard roof of copper, now aged with a green patina. It replaced the smaller but substantial Hotel Carswell, built shortly after the Great Baltimore Fire of 1904.\n\nIn 1958, after the Baltimore City Council considered but failed to pass an ordinance prohibiting racial segregation in public accommodations, the Lord Baltimore Hotel voluntarily ended its restrictive guest policies. \n\nFollowing the redevelopment of the downtown area in the 1990s, the hotel is within walking distance of many Baltimore attractions such as the Inner Harbor, Camden Yards, and the National Aquarium.\n\nThe Lord Baltimore Hotel closed in 1982, needing a major renovation. It was bought by a partnership headed by local developer Saul Perlmutter in 1983 and was renovated in 1985. The partnership filed for bankruptcy in 1987 and the hotel was then taken over from its defunct creditor by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) during the savings and loan crisis of the mid-1980s.\n\nThe hotel was managed by Radisson Hotels through much of the 1990s as the Radission Plaza Lord Baltimore. The FDIC sold the hotel to Universal Equities, a Washington, D.C. group, in 1992 for $8.5 million. Universal, in turn, sold the hotel in January 1997 for $30 million. The new owners, Davidson Hotels, ended the association with Radisson. The hotel became, for a time the Hilton Baltimore & Towers.\n\nThe hotel was sold again in 2001 to Carlson Hotels, the owners of the Radisson Hotels franchise, regaining its previous name as the Radisson Plaza Lord Baltimore.\n\nThe hotel was sold to Rubell Hotels of Miami, Florida for $10 million (US) in August 2013. It dropped the Radisson flag and reopened in 2014 as an independent hotel after undergoing a total remodeling of guest rooms, and restoration of the building's public spaces.\n\nThe hotel was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982. Lord Baltimore Hotel is a member of Historic Hotels of America, the official program of the National Trust for Historic Preservation.\n\n"}
{"id": "41441267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41441267", "title": "Mark Braund", "text": "Mark Braund\n\nMark Braund is the current chief executive RedstoneConnect.\n\nBraund was appointed CEO of InterQuest in 2011 during which time he oversaw a major rebranding of the Group's businesses. Prior to Mark's appointment as CEO of InterQuest he gained over 30 years of experience in the recruitment sector with Manpower and IBM; and as founder of recruitment organisation Barker Personnel Services before overseeing their sale to the Carlisle Group in 2000.\n\nBraund is a regular contributor for the Huffington Post, Staffing Industry Analysts and the Information Daily, writing articles covering a broad range of topics including technology, analytics, recruitment and HR. Mark has a keen interest in the subject of analytics, one of the key areas of his company's focus and has had articles on the subject published on several occasions. \n"}
{"id": "20447391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20447391", "title": "Marriage privatization", "text": "Marriage privatization\n\nMarriage privatization is the concept that the state should have no authority to define the terms of personal relationships such as marriage. Proponents of marriage privatization, including certain minarchists, anarchists, libertarians, and opponents of government interventionism, claim that such relationships are best defined by private individuals and not the state. Arguments for the privatization of marriage have been offered by a number of scholars and writers. Proponents of marriage privatization often argue that privatizing marriage is a solution to the social controversy over same-sex marriage. Arguments for and against the privatization of marriage span both liberal and conservative political camps.\n\nIn 1997, libertarian David Boaz wrote an article for \"Slate\" titled “Privatize Marriage: A Simple Solution to the Gay-Marriage Debate.\" In the article, Boaz suggests privatizing marriage in a way that models the nature of standard business contracts. Boaz's idea is to allow two (possibly more) individuals to set the terms of their own private marital contract in a way that is best for the individuals involved. \"When children or large sums of money are involved, an enforceable contract spelling out the parties' respective rights and obligations is probably advisable. But the existence and details of such an agreement should be up to the parties.\" According to Boaz the government could be called upon to enforce the contract but may have no other role in developing the contract and setting the terms.\n\nIn 2002, anarchist Wendy McElroy echoed Boaz's business contract model in an essay for \"Ifeminists\" titled \"It's Time to Privatize Marriage.\"\n\nMarriage should be privatized. Let people make their own marriage contracts according to their conscience, religion and common sense. Those contracts could be registered with the state, recognized as legal and arbitrated by the courts, but the terms would be determined by those involved.\n\nMcElroy has also said:\n\nWhy is marriage declining? One reason is that it has become a three-way contract between two people and the government.\n\nIn 2003, political columnist Ryan McMaken, writing on LewRockwell.com, raised the issue of marriage privatization arguing that the rise of state-sanctioned marriage coincides historically with the expansion of government. In his article titled \"Married to the State,\" McMaken wrote:\n\nThe question we are then left with today is one of whether the churches and individuals should be looking to privatize marriage yet again and to begin making a distinction between secular contracts between private citizens and religious unions that should be kept beyond the power of the State. Such a move, of course, would bring with it new assumptions about the role of the State in divorce, children, and a variety of other aspects of family life. The State will not give up control over these things easily, for the assertion that the importance of marriage makes it a legitimate interest of the State is only true from the point of view of the State itself, for as the foundation of society, marriage and family cannot be entrusted to governments just to be blown about by the winds of democratic opinion, for the same government that has the power to protect can just as easily destroy.\n\nIn a similar libertarian vein, the radio talk-show host Larry Elder endorsed the privatization of marriage. In \"The State Should Get Out of the Marriage Business\", a 2004 article published in on the website Capitalism Magazine, Elder wrote:\n\nHow about government simply getting out of the marriage-license-granting business? (Ditto for government licenses necessary to cut hair, drive a taxi, open a business or enter a profession.) Leave marriage to non-governmental institutions, like churches, synagogues, mosques, and other houses of worship or private institutions. Adultery, although legal, remains a sin subject to societal condemnation. It's tough to legislate away condemnation or legislate in approval. Those who view same-sex marriage as sinful will continue to do so, no matter what the government, the courts or their neighbors say.\n\nIn 2006, law professor Colin P.A. Jones wrote an article appearing in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" titled \"Marriage Proposal: Why Not Privatize?\" following the business model for privatization Jones writes:\n\nSubject to certain statutory constraints, businesspeople have long been free to form whatever sort of partnership they felt appropriate to their needs. Why not make the same possible for marriage, which is a partnership based on one of the oldest types of contractual relationships? \n\nIn 2009, author and journalist Naomi Wolf wrote about getting the state out of marriage in \"The Times\":\n\nLet's also get the state out of the marriage union. In spite of the dress and the flowers, marriage is a business contract. Women, generally, don't understand this, until it hits them over the head upon divorce. Let's take a lead from our gay and lesbian friends, who, without state marriage, often create domestic partnerships with financial autonomy and unity spelt out. A heterosexual parallel: celebrate marriage with a religious or emotional ceremony—leave the state out of it—and create a business- or domestic-partner contract aligning the couple legally.\n\nProfessor Gary Becker, a winner of the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences, has said that:\n\nWith marriage contracts that set out the couple's commitments, there is little reason why judges should retain their current involvement in marriage.\n\nAs of 2015, the only known members of US Congress to support privatization of state marriage are Sen. Rand Paul, Rep. Justin Amash (R–Michigan) and Rep. Gary Palmer (R–Alabama).\n\nPepperdine University law professor Douglas Kmiec told the \"Catholic News Agency\" that churches that do not accept same-sex marriage have a genuine concern that they be subject to penalties such as losing public benefits or receiving lawsuits. He argued that the state should just allot people \"civil licenses\", with the terminology \"marriage\" left \"as a religious concept\" for groups to debate outside the scope of government.\n\nThough often introduced from conservative commentators, marriage privatization has received attention from advocates on the left. In 2003 left-leaning political columnist and journalist Michael Kinsley wrote a second essay to appear in \"Slate\" on the topic. Kinsley's essay is titled \"Abolish Marriage: Let's Really Get the Government out of Our Bedrooms.\" Kinsley follows the model set by his libertarian counterparts Boaz and McElroy; like Elder's he emphasizes marriage privatization's potential to end the controversy over same-sex marriage:\n\nIf marriage were an entirely private affair, all the disputes over gay marriage would become irrelevant. Gay marriage would not have the official sanction of government, but neither would straight marriage. There would be official equality between the two, which is the essence of what gays want and are entitled to. And if the other side is sincere in saying that its concern is not what people do in private, but government endorsement of a gay \"lifestyle\" or \"agenda,\" that problem goes away, too.\n\nMarriage privatization received attention from the legal scholar Alan Dershowitz in 2003 when Dershowitz wrote a \"Los Angeles Times\" editorial titled \"To Fix Gay Dilemma, Government Should Quit the Marriage Business.\" More so than commentators from the right, Dershowitz frames his view on the topic in terms of church-state separation; unlike libertarian leaning discussions Dershowitz maintains that the state does have an interest in the secular rights of marriage. Dershowitz proposes that civil-unions as a secular replacement for state sanctioned marriage, be extended to both same-sex and opposite-sex couples. Under Dershowitz's conception of privatization, couples have a choice as to whether or not they wish to be married by a clergy willing to perform a marriage ceremony or to exclusively partake of secular/state-sanctioned civil unions. Dershowitz writes:\n\nNot only would this solution be good for gays and for those who oppose gay marriage on religious grounds, it would also strengthen the wall of separation between church and state by placing a sacred institution entirely in the hands of the church while placing a secular institution under state control.\n\nIn 2007 the Center for Inquiry, a secular think tank, released a position paper authored by analyst Ruth Mitchell titled \"Same-Sex Marriage and Marriage\". The paper argues from the separation of church and state that as long as marriage is available to heterosexual couples it ought to be equally available to LGBT couples. Nevertheless, the position paper claims that state endorsement of civil unions for both types of couples is the most appropriate policy in light of separation of church and state.\n\nThe argument for marriage privatization has also been formulated in academic scholarship. In 2008 an argument for marriage privatization appeared in the public policy journal \"Public Affairs Quarterly\". In that issue philosopher Lawrence Torcello offers a detailed model of marriage privatization based on the later political writings of the 20th century political philosopher John Rawls. The article is titled \"Is The State Endorsement of Any Marriage Justifiable? Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions, and The Marriage Privatization Model.\"\n\nIn the 1993 book \"Political Liberalism\", Rawls argues that arguments in a pluralistic society must be hashed out in terms that all members of that society can understand if not endorse. This means that in making public claims one must refrain from religious or otherwise controversial metaphysical claims that cannot, in principle, be equally endorsed by reasonable persons. In doing this, one is relying on what Rawls refers to as public reason.\n\nIn his article, Torcello claims that any state endorsement of marriage represents an inappropriate public endorsement of a comprehensive religious or otherwise metaphysical doctrine, which underlies any particular definition of marriage. Accordingly, taking public reason seriously leads to the idea that legalization of same-sex marriage may be just as neutrally unbalanced as its ban. In place of the public institute of marriage, Torcello, like Dershowitz, argues that civil unions providing the full extent of marital benefits under law ought to be instituted for both heterosexual and homosexual couples. According to the argument, such civil unions ought to replace the current legal institute of marriage. Once privatized, marriage is open for individuals to define and embrace or ignore as they see fit, within the scope of their private religious or philosophical belief systems:\n\nNo religious model that rejects same-sex marriage would be required to perform same-sex marriages under this privatized model. Under this model a couple, either heterosexual or homosexual, would obtain a civil union in order to have public and legal recognition of their partnership; they would have a private marriage ceremony if they so chose in order to honor their private religious or philosophical concept of marriage.\n\nIn a July 2008 article appearing in \"The Monist\" titled \"Privatizing Marriage\" Harvard Law Professor Cass Sunstein and University of Chicago economist Richard H. Thaler offer arguments for the privatization of marriage. Thaler and Sunstein also take up the topic in their co-authored 2008 book \"Nudge: Improving Decisions about Wealth, Health, and Happiness.\" Sunstein and Thaler argue for marriage privatization among other positions under the heading of what they call \"Libertarian Paternalism\".\n\nOpposition to marriage privatization, like its endorsement, is equally likely to be found arising from conservative or liberal sources and a wide variety of objections are made.\n\nConservative evangelical baptist R. Albert Mohler, Jr. has stated that he opposes the privatizaton of marriage because \"markets do not always encourage or support moral behavior\" and he believes the proposal would \"[destroy] marriage as a public institution.\"\n\nPrinceton professor Robert P. George has argued that marriage has an important cultural role in helping children develop into \"basically honest, decent law-abiding people of goodwill—citizens—who can take their rightful place in society\". Thus, he concludes, \"Family is built on marriage, and government—the state—has a profound interest in the integrity and well-being of marriage, and to write it off as if it were purely a religiously significant action and not an institution and action that has a profound public significance, would be a terrible mistake\". This position is seconded by Jennifer Morse of the Witherspoon Institute, who argues that if literally anyone can define marriage as whatever they want, the state forfeits the ability to sufficiently secure the best interests of children. She goes further, arguing that the logic of marriage privatization \"at the expense of children, is a concept developed by adults that will benefit only adults.\"\n\nStanley Kurtz of \"National Review\" has written that privatization would be a \"disaster\". He argued that government \"still has to decide what sort of private unions merit benefits... under this privatization scheme\", and then \"we also get the same quarrels over social recognition that we got before privatization.\" He commented that the government will have to deal with polygamous, polyamorous, and incestuous relationships attempting to obtain contracts under the new scheme as well as attempts by heterosexual acquaintances to make \"marriages of convenience\" to obtain things such as spousal medical insurance. His \"National Review\" colleague Maggie Gallagher has also called privatization as a \"fantasy\" since \"[t]here is scarcely a dollar that state and federal government spends on social programs that is not driven in large part by family fragmentation: crime, poverty, drug abuse, teen pregnancy, school failure, mental and physical health problems.\"\n\nIn general, a legal contract signed between two or more people will often include penalties for the severing of the contract by a party or parties. However, this generally does not apply to marriages in the US, which usually fall under the legal standard of no-fault divorce. It remains an open issue as to whether or not these quasi-marriage partnership contracts will be enforced with penalties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24669205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24669205", "title": "Mission-driven marketing", "text": "Mission-driven marketing\n\nMission-driven marketing, or mission-based marketing refers to a strategic marketing approach which uses an organization’s core mission as the foundation and focus of its marketing communications. Philosophically, it is based on the organization’s desire to promote the purpose, aim, and goals of the organization, as outlined in its mission statement, and to communicate the benefits of achieving those goals to its stakeholders.\n\nThe term, mission-driven marketing, has historically been associated with the non-profit sector, and non-governmental organizations, as early as 1998. Mission-driven marketing philosophy and strategy has also been applied in the healthcare and education sectors, and is increasingly being adopted by businesses as part of their corporate social responsibility and philanthropy initiatives.\n\nA mission-driven, or mission-based organization can be non-profit or for-profit, public or private, governmental or non-governmental, philanthropic or religious. Typically, mission-driven organizations, are formed and/or managed to accomplish goals that extend beyond profits for stakeholders, shareholders, and owners to include a societal benefit. This could include an array of focus areas such as, education, youth development, protecting the environment, caring for the sick, fighting poverty, and promoting spirituality. Companies who adopt fair trade or environmental sustainability business practices could also be considered as an organization with a mission-driven focus.\n\nValues based organizations are mission-driven. Therefore, central to mission-driven marketing philosophy is adherence to the organization's core values, and using its mission statement as the basis for planning and implementation of marketing strategy. Market factors are taken into account, but the mission is the final determining factor. It has also been defined as being \"mission-based and market driven\". Such businesses are increasingly being referred to as a \"conscious business\", or engaging in \"conscious capitalism\". The organization's values then provide a foundation for its marketing messages.\n\n"}
{"id": "2488322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2488322", "title": "Montegu Black", "text": "Montegu Black\n\nGeorge Montegu Black III (August 6, 1940 in Winnipeg, Manitoba – January 10, 2002 in Toronto, Ontario) was the older brother of media baron Conrad Black and son of Winnipeg, Manitoba businessman George Montegu Black II.\n\nHe along with his brother Conrad, attended Toronto's elite Upper Canada College. In grade 10 he transferred to Trinity College School in Port Hope, Ont. from which he matriculated in 1959. Monte was an accomplished athlete and played significant roles in the sports life of the school. His leadership role as head prefect of Bethune House was a harbinger of things to come. He then attended Huron College at the UWO in London, Ontario. His career path included corporate partnerships with brother Conrad and then in the investment industry with Draper Dobie and Dominion Securities.\n\nWith brother Conrad, they once controlled Hollinger Inc. along with David Radler. He was also a director of the Toronto-Dominion Bank and the HSC Foundation.\n\nMarried in 1964 to Mariellen Jean Campbell. They have three daughters, Tracey Jean, Alannah Christian, and Meredith Shannon, and one son, George Montegu IV. They were divorced in 1986, and Montegu subsequently married June Kemsley Doull in March, 1989.\n\n"}
{"id": "214491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=214491", "title": "Multinational corporation", "text": "Multinational corporation\n\nMost of the largest and most influential companies of the modern age are publicly traded multinational corporations, including \"Forbes Global 2000\" companies. Multinational corporations are subject to criticisms for lacking ethical standards, and that this shows up in how they evade ethical laws and leverage their own business agenda with capital, and even the military backing of their own wealthy host nation-states. They have also become associated with multinational tax havens and base erosion and profit shifting tax avoidance activities.\n\nA multinational corporation (MNC) is usually a large corporation incorporated in one country which produces or sells goods or services in various countries. The two main characteristics of MNCs are their large size and the fact that their worldwide activities are centrally controlled by the parent companies.\n\nMNCs may gain from their global presence in a variety of ways. First of all, MNCs can benefit from the economy of scale by spreading R&D expenditures and advertising costs over their global sales, pooling global purchasing power over suppliers, and utilizing their technological and managerial know-how globally with minimal additional costs. Furthermore, MNCs can use their global presence to take advantage of underpriced labor services available in certain developing countries, and gain access to special R&D capabilities residing in advanced foreign countries.\n\nThe problem of moral and legal constraints upon the behavior of multinational corporations, given that they are effectively \"stateless\" actors, is one of several urgent global socioeconomic problems that emerged during the late twentieth century.\n\nPotentially, the best concept for analyzing society's governance limitations over modern corporations is the concept of \"stateless corporations\". Coined at least as early as 1990 in \"Business Week\", the conception was theoretically clarified in 1992: that an empirical strategy for defining a stateless corporation is with analytical tools at the intersection between demographic analysis and transportation research. This intersection is known as logistics management, and it describes the importance of rapidly increasing global mobility of resources. In a long history of analysis of multinational corporations we are some quarter century into an era of stateless corporations - corporations which meet the realities of the needs of source materials on a worldwide basis and to produce and customize products for individual countries.\n\nOne of the first multinational business organizations, the East India Company, was established in 1600. After the East India Company, came the Dutch East India Company, founded March 20, 1602, which would become the largest company in the world for nearly 200 years.\n\nThe main characteristics of multinational companies are:\n\nMultinational corporations can select from a variety of jurisdictions for various subsidiaries, but the ultimate parent company can select a single legal domicile; as of 2014, the Netherlands has been a popular choice, as it has fewer requirements for meetings, compensation, and audit committees. As of 2014, Great Britain had advantages due to laws on withholding dividends and a double-taxation treaty with the United States.\n\nCorporations can legally engage in tax avoidance through their jurisdiction, but must be careful to avoid illegal tax evasion.\n\nMultinational corporations may be subject to the laws and regulations of both their domicile and the additional jurisdictions where they are engaged in business. In some cases, the jurisdiction can help to avoid burdensome laws, but regulatory statutes often target the \"enterprise\" with statutory language around \"control\".\n\nFor small corporations, registering a foreign subsidiary can be expensive and complex, involving fees, signatures, and forms; a professional employer organization (PEO) is sometimes advertised as a cheaper and simpler alternative, but not all jurisdictions have laws accepting these types of arrangements.\n\nDisputes between corporations in different nations is often handled through international arbitration.\n\nThe actions of multinational corporations are strongly supported by economic liberalism and free market system in a globalized international society. According to the economic realist view, individuals act in rational ways to maximize their self-interest and therefore, when individuals act rationally, markets are created and they function best in free market system where there is little government interference. As a result, international wealth is maximized with free exchange of goods and services.\n\nTo many economic liberals, multinational corporations are the vanguard of the liberal order. They are the embodiment par excellence of the liberal ideal of an interdependent world economy. They have taken the integration of national economies beyond trade and money to the internationalization of production. For the first time in history, production, marketing, and investment are being organized on a global scale rather than in terms of isolated national economies.\n\nInternational business is also a specialist field of academic research. Economic theories of the multinational corporation include internalization theory and the eclectic paradigm. The latter is also known as the OLI framework.\n\nThe other theoretical dimension of the role of multinational corporations concerns the relationship between the globalization of economic engagement and the culture of national and local responses. This has a history of self-conscious cultural management going back at least to the 1960s. For example:\n\nA transnational corporation differs from a traditional multinational corporation in that it does not identify itself with one national home. While traditional multinational corporations are national companies with foreign subsidiaries, transnational corporations spread out their operations in many countries to sustain high levels of local responsiveness.<ref name=\"Case study: The Relationship between the Structure/Strategy of Multinational Corporations and Patterns of Knowledge Sharing within them\"></ref>\n\nAn example of a transnational corporation is Nestlé, who employ senior executives from many countries and tries to make decisions from a global perspective rather than from one centralized headquarters.\n\nAnother example is Royal Dutch Shell, whose headquarters are in The Hague, Netherlands, but whose registered office and main executive body are headquartered in London, United Kingdom.\n\n\"Multinational enterprise\" (MNE) is the term used by international economist and similarly defined with the multinational corporation (MNC) as an enterprise that controls and manages production establishments, known as plants located in at least two countries. The multinational enterprise (MNE) will engage in foreign direct investment (FDI) as the firm makes direct investments in host country plants for equity ownership and managerial control to avoid some transaction costs.\n\nThe history of multinational corporations is closely intertwined with the history of colonialism, the first multinational corporations being founded to undertake colonial expeditions at the behest of their European monarchical patrons. Prior to the era of New Imperialism, a majority European colonies not held by the Spanish and Portuguese crowns were administered by chartered multinational corporations. Examples of such corporations include the British East India Company, the Swedish Africa Company, and the Hudson's Bay Company. These early corporations facilitated colonialism by engaging in international trade and exploration, and creating colonial trading posts. Many of these corporations, such as the South Australia Company and the Virginia Company, played a direct role in formal colonization by creating and maintaining settler colonies. Without exception these early corporations created differential economic outcomes between their home country and their colonies via a process of exploiting colonial resources and labour, and investing the resultant profits and net gain in the home country. The end result of this process was the enrichment of the colonizer and the impoverishment of the colonized. Some multinational corporations, such as the Royal African Company, were also responsible for the logistical component of the Atlantic slave trade, maintaining the ships and ports required for this vast enterprise. During the 19th century, formal corporate rule over colonial holdings largely gave way to state-controlled colonies, however corporate control over colonial economic affairs persisted in a majority of colonies.\n\nDuring the process of decolonization, the European colonial charter companies were disbanded, with the final colonial corporation, the Mozambique Company, dissolving in 1972. However the economic impact of corporate colonial exploitation has proved to be lasting and far reaching, with some commentators asserting that this impact is among the chief causes of contemporary global income inequality.\n\nContemporary critics of multinational corporations have charged that some present day multinational corporations follow the pattern of exploitation and differential wealth distribution established by the now defunct colonial charter corporations, particularly with regards to corporations based in the developed world that operate resource extraction enterprises in the developing world, such as Royal Dutch Shell, and Barrick Gold. Some of these critics argue that the operations of multinational corporations in the developing world take place within the broader context of neocolonialism.\n\nHowever, multinational corporations from emerging markets are playing an ever-greater role, increasingly impacting the global economy.\n\nAnti-corporate advocates criticize multinational corporations for being without a basis in a national ethos, being ultimately without a specific nationhood, and that this lack of an ethos appears in their ways of operating as they enter into contracts with countries that have low human rights or environmental standards. In the world economy facilitated by multinational corporations, capital will increasingly be able to play workers, communities, and nations off against one another as they demand tax, regulation and wage concessions while threatening to move. In other words, increased mobility of multinational corporations benefit capital while workers and communities lose. Some negative outcomes generated by multinational corporations include increased inequality, unemployment, and wage stagnation.\n\nThe aggressive use of tax avoidance schemes, and multinational tax havens, allows multinational corporations to gain competitive advantages over small and medium-sized enterprises. Organizations such as the Tax Justice Network criticize governments for allowing multinational organizations to escape tax, particularly by using base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) tax tools, since less money can be spent for public services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4931001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4931001", "title": "National Day of Mourning (Canadian observance)", "text": "National Day of Mourning (Canadian observance)\n\nThe National Day of Mourning, or Workers’ Mourning Day is observed in Canada on 28 April. It commemorates workers who have been killed, injured or suffered illness due to workplace related hazards and occupational exposures.\n\nWorkers' Memorial Day was started when two labour activists, Colin Lambert and Dr. Ray Sentes, were driving in early April 1983 to a union meeting, and were stopped by a funeral procession for a firefighter that had been killed in the line of duty. They worried that other workers who died because of work did not receive similar honours, and recalled how members of the United Steelworkers in Elliott Lake held each year a \"Workers' Remembrance Day\" for uranium miners who had succumbed to exposures. Lambert and Sentes sought endorsements from union officials for the idea to hold a national day of mourning, and the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE) passed a resolution to that effect at its annual convention in 1983, and the Canadian Labour Congress followed suit at its annual convention the following year. The AFL-CIO declared a day of mourning in 1989 and a \"workers' Memorial Day\" is observed in over 100 countries.\n\nIn December 1990, this day became a national observance in Canada with the passing of the Workers Mourning Day Act, so that on April 28, 1991, it was officially the National Day of Mourning for persons killed or injured in the workplace; making April 28, an official Workers’ Mourning Day.\n\nInjuries and deaths in the workplace continue to be a matter of important concern across Canada. Many Canadians members work hard each day in an effort to minimize accidents and incidents. Risk is an inherent element of many jobs, and this is why safety should be one of the core values in any workplace. Since its inception, the observance has spread to over 80 countries around the world, but is known is most other countries as the Workers' Memorial Day. The date 28 April was picked because on that day in 1914, the Workers Compensation Act received its third reading. In 2001 the International Labour Organization first observed World Day for Safety and Health at Work on this day. Commemorating those who have been hurt or killed in the workplace shows respect for the fallen, while serving as a reminder of the importance of occupational health and safety.\n\nThe Canadian flag is flown at half-mast from sunrise to sunset on all federal government buildings, including on Parliament Hill. Workers and employees observe this day in various ways including lighting candles, donning ribbons and black armbands, and observing a moment of silence at 1100 hrs. The purpose of Day of Mourning is twofold- to remember and honour those lives lost or injured and to renew the commitment to improving health and safety in the workplace - to prevent further deaths, injuries and diseases from work.\n\nYoung workers aged from 15-24 are more likely than any other group to be injured on the job, in fact 1/3 of all injuries occur in this age group, and males are twice as likely to be injured as female workers. The highest rate of injury happens in construction and hospitality industries. These rates have led to specific laws in many provinces that provide for additional and special training for young and new workers. Due to these statistics, there has been renewed push to use this holiday to educate young workers of their rights in schools.\n\nMajor monuments in Canada have been erected and dedicated to workers whose lives have been who have been killed and injured on the job.\n\n\nThe BC Labour Heritage Centre maintains an interactive map recording all monuments and plaques dedicated to working class people in British Columbia, over fifty sites of which are Day of Mourning specific.\n\nMonuments around the world have been erected and dedicated to workers whose lives have been who have been killed and injured on the job.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9764002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9764002", "title": "Neville Ashenheim", "text": "Neville Ashenheim\n\nSir Neville Noel Ashenheim (18 December 1900 – 1 September 1984) was a Jamaican businessman, lawyer, politician, and served as the first Jamaican Ambassador to the United States. He received a knighthood from Queen Elizabeth II on 1 January 1963. Ashenheim served his post as ambassador until March 1967. He was the great-grandson of Lewis Ashenheim, who coedited \"The First Fruits of the West\", the first Jewish periodical in the West Indies. Neville himself was a Jew.\n"}
{"id": "900118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=900118", "title": "OTP Bank", "text": "OTP Bank\n\nOTP Bank Group is one of the largest independent financial services providers in Central and Eastern Europe with full range of banking services for private individuals and corporate clients. OTP Group comprise large subsidiaries, granting services in the field of insurance, real estate, factoring, leasing and asset management, investment and pension funds. The bank is serving clients in 9 countries, namely Hungary, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Serbia, Romania, Croatia, Ukraine, Montenegro and Russia.\n\nNowadays OTP Groups' more than 36,000 employees are serving 13 million clients in over 1,500 branches and through electronic channels on all the markets of the bank. OTP is still the largest commercial bank in Hungary with over 25% market share.\n\nOTP Group started its activity in 1949 when OTP Bank was founded as a state savings and commercial bank. OTP stands for Országos Takarék Pénztár (National Savings Bank) which indicates the origin purpose of establishment of the bank.\nThe bank went public in 1995, and the share of the state in the bank capital decreased to one preferential gold share, which also eliminated shortly thereafter. Currently most of the banks' shares are owned by private and institutional investors, which ensures stable ownership structure of the company. OTP has a high free float shareholder structure, the free float ratio reaches the 68,61%. The rest is held by one of the Forbes billionaire Megdet Rahimkulov in 8,88%, Hungarian MOL Group in 8,57%, French Groupama in 8,30% and American Lazard in 5,64%.\n\nThe predecessor of OTP Bank, called the National Savings Bank (OTP Bank) was established in 1949 as a nationwide, state-owned, banking entity providing retail deposits and loans. In the ensuing years, its activities and the scope of its authority gradually widened. First, it was authorised to enter into real estate transactions. Later, its role was extended to provide domestic foreign currency accounts and foreign exchange services; there was a subsequent diversification into providing banking services for Hungarian municipalities.\n\nSince 1989, the bank has operated as a multi-functional commercial bank. In addition to continuing its previous retail and municipal activities, the bank has been authorised to solicit corporate loan accounts and deposits, and to provide commercial loans and banking services for correspondent banking and export-import transactions.\n\nIn 1990, the National Savings Bank became a public company with a share capital of HUF 23 billion. Its name was changed to the National Savings and Commercial Bank. Subsequently, non-banking activities were separated from the bank, along with their supporting organisational units. The state lottery was reorganised into a separate state-owned company and OTP Real Estate was established as a subsidiary of the bank.\nOTP Bank's privatisation began in 1995. As a result of 3 public offers along with the introduction of the bank's shares into the Budapest Stock Exchange the state's ownership in the bank decreased to a single voting preference (golden) share. Currently the bank is characterized by dispersed ownership of mostly private and institutional (financial) investors.\n\nAfter the realisation of its own privatisation process, OTP Bank started its international expansion targeting countries in CEE region. OTP Bank has completed several acquisitions in the past years. Besides Hungary, OTP Group currently operates in 8 countries of the region via its subsidiaries: in Bulgaria (DSK Bank), in Croatia (OTP banka Hrvatska), in Romania (OTP Bank Romania), in Serbia (OTP banka Srbija), in Slovakia (OTP Banka Slovensko), in Ukraine (OTP Bank JSC), in Montenegro (Crnogorska komercijalna banka) and in Russia (OAO OTP Bank).\n\n2008 was milestone in OTP Bank history since it was the first time to sell one of its subsidiaries. The French Groupama S.A. acquired its insurance business line, and part of the transaction they resolved to collaborate in strategic points and crossell their financial and insurance products. Groupama S.A. has acquired 8% of shares of OTP Group.\n\nIn April 2014, it was announced that OTP Bank was close to a deal to acquire the Hungarian MKB Bank from German firm BayernLB. French AXA Bank Europe announced in February 2016 it has entered into an agreement with OTP Bank to sell its Hungarian banking operations, which is considered as medium-sized bank in Hungary.\n\nThe Bank hosts an international organisation called the OTP group. The several parts of the group work in different areas of business.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35985903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35985903", "title": "Olga E. Custodio", "text": "Olga E. Custodio\n\nLieutenant Colonel Olga E. Custodio (born 1953) is a former United States Air Force officer who became the first female Hispanic U.S. military pilot. She was the first Hispanic woman to complete U.S. Air Force military pilot training. Upon retiring from the military, she became one of the first female Hispanic commercial airline captains.\n\nCustodio was born in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Her father, a sergeant in the United States Army, was often stationed in various countries where the United States has its military installations. Custodio and the rest of the family would accompany him on his overseas assignments. Custodio began her primary education in Taiwan. She also attended schools in New Jersey, Iran and Paraguay.\n\nThe family returned to Puerto Rico when she was 15 years old. She graduated high school at age 16, and was immediately accepted into the University of Puerto Rico. Custodio's father, and all the traveling she did at a young age, were key factors in her choice of career - she decided to join the military. While in college she attempted to join the university’s ROTC (Reserve Officer Training Corps), but at the time only men were admitted into the program.\n\nCustodio earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Puerto Rico and worked for various industries before landing a job in the accounting department of Prinair (Puerto Rico International Airlines). There she met Edwin Custodio, with whom she would eventually have two children. She later worked for the US Department of Defense (DoD) in Panama. With the support of her husband, she presented herself before Headquarters, Air Force Military Personnel Center (AFMPC) to apply for the United States Air Force Officer Training School. Upon admission, Custodio was accepted as a pilot candidate to become a United States Air Force pilot.\n\nShe entered the Flight Screening Pilot Officer Training School in January 1980. After successful completion of Flight Screening she entered Officer Training School and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant. She qualified for Undergraduate Pilot Training (UPT) at Laughlin Air Force Base in Texas and graduated the following year, thus becoming the first Latina to complete the U.S. Air Force military pilot training.\n\nHer first military assignment was that of instructor pilot at Laughlin AFB. She was the first female to become a Northrop T-38 Talon (T-38) UPT flight instructor at that base. The T-38 Talon is the Air Force’s two-seat, supersonic jet trainer. On one occasion a bird struck the engine of her plane in bad weather while she was in flight. She was able to overcome the emergency and safely land her plane. Because of this she was recognized by the Air Force, and awarded the HQ AETC Aviation Safety Award for superior airmanship.\n\nCustodio was later assigned to Randolph Air Force Base where she was also the first female T-38 Instructor Pilot. During her career she also served as Pilot Instructor Training; T-41 Flight Screening - Operations Officer and Check Pilot.\n\nCustodio retired from the Air Force with the rank of lieutenant colonel in October 2003, after serving in the military for 23 years and 10 months. Her last assignment as an Air Force Reserve officer was that of accountability and readiness the Directorate of Personnel, HQ USAF.\n\nIn June 1988, while she was serving in the US Air Force Reserve, she was hired by American Airlines as a commercial pilot. Custodio became one of the first Latina commercial airline captains. During her years with American, she flew various types of aircraft. She piloted the Boeing 727, Fokker 100, Boeing 757 and Boeing 767 to various countries in Europe, the Caribbean, Central America and South America. She also flew to Mexico, Canada and to various cities in the United States. Custodio retired from American Airlines in February 2008, with over 11,000 flight hours.\n\nCustodio retired from the military after 24 years of service and lives in San Antonio, Texas, with her husband. There she founded \"Dragonfly Productions LLC,\" a production company that creates personal film documentaries. In 1992, she founded the \"Ballet Folklorico Borikèn,\" the Puerto Rican folk ballet.\n\nCustodio is a Trustee of the Order of Daedalians Foundation, a Board Member and Treasurer for the Women in Aviation Alamo City Chapter and Board Member for the Dee Howard Foundation. Custodio also serves as vice president of the Hispanic Association of Aviation and Aerospace Professionals (HAAAP). These organizations inspire young students in the San Antonio and surrounding areas to seek civilian and military aviation careers. They hosts students to tour various airplanes and control towers and also speak to students in all grades to present career opportunities in aviation and aerospace.\n\nAmong the many associations in which Custodio is a member are the following:\n\nBesides the Bachelor of Arts degree which she earned in the University of Puerto Rico, Custodio has also earned the following:\n\nCustodio was recognized twice by the Senate of Puerto Rico. In 2001, she was recognized by Elizabeth Arden/Revista Imagen of Puerto Rico as one of the recipient of \"La Belleza Inteligente 2001\" award.In 2017, Custodio was inducted into the San Antonio Aviation and Aerospace Hall of Fame for being the first Hispanic Female Military pilot in the United States Air Force.\n"}
{"id": "56138226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56138226", "title": "Oriol Pamies", "text": "Oriol Pamies\n\nOriol Pamies (born October 17, 1989) is a Spanish entrepreneur, LGBT activist and tourism expert. He is a co-founder of \"Moovz\", an LGBT social network.\n\nPamies was born in Reus, Catalonia. He lived there with his family until he moved to Barcelona to study Advertising and PR in 2008. He later dropped out of college to start pursuing his entrepreneurial career.\n\nIn 2012, following an invitation from Idan Matalon, Pamies travelled to Israel to explore new business opportunities.\n\nPamies' visit to Israel led him to join the Israeli start-up Interacting Technology as their VP Business Development becoming one of the founders of \"Moovz\", an LGBT social network. While in Israel he became an active member of the local LGBT and tech community. According to Huffington Post, in 2015, during the National Coming Out Day, Pamies produced a campaign for Moovz encouraging individuals to come out of the closet and share their stories through the hashtag \"#ComingOut.\"\n\nIn 2016, Pamies partnered with youtuber Juan Pablo Jaramillo and Juana Martinez in a campaign to defend diversity and tolerance. The campaign was called \"#EDUCATETOLOVE\" and the video was presented in Congress. In 2017, Pamies led Moovz to become the official social network of Madrid World Pride 2017.\n\nPamies has taken part in conferences, presenting topics related to entrepreneurship, online marketing and activism.\n\nThrough his work at Moovz, Pamies developed marketing strategies to position tourist destinations as LGBT friendly. In 2015 and through a partnership with Tel Aviv Municipality, he was behind a project that broadcast through the app the Tel Aviv Pride Parade. In 2016, he advocated and promoted Israel through an interview at the Spanish Magazine Shangay. In May 2017, during the annual convention of International Gay and Lesbian Travel Association (IGLTA) in St. Petersburg, Florida, he delivered the first keynote in Spanish. In September 2017 in Bogotá, he took part at the International Congress of Social Mobility and Right to the City, organised by the City Hall, where he presented a case study on how the Gay Pride Parade can contribute at the positioning and International promotion of a city as an LGBT friendly destination.\n\nPamies is gay and has expressed his desire to have kids in several occasions. He came out at the age of 19.\n\nIn 2017, MTV invited Pamies to take part in the project \"Out in 60\", a project where celebrities and influencers shared their coming out story in 60 seconds. According to the Spanish portal \"Cromosoma X\", Pamies is one of most important LGBT influencers of the moment in 2017. In 2017, he was revealed as one of the \"top 20 bachelors of the year\" by Attitude Magazine.\n"}
{"id": "53824719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53824719", "title": "Peter Barr (nurseryman)", "text": "Peter Barr (nurseryman)\n\nPeter Barr (1826–1909) was a Scottish nurseryman and merchant, best known for daffodils.\n\nHe was born in Govan, Lanarkshire, the son of James Barr, a mill owner, and his wife, Mary Findlay. From a seed shop in Glasgow, he moved to a seed merchant's in Newry, and then went into business in 1852 in a partnership in Worcester, concentrating on bulbs.\n\nAfter a change of partners, Barr in 1860 was in the bulb trade in King Street, St James's in London. He was known for his catalogues, and for gaining the interest of British gardeners in daffodils, then neglected, inspired by the work of John Parkinson in the 17th century.\n\nThe Peter Barr Memorial Cup is awarded each year by the Royal Horticultural Society to somebody who has done good work in relation to daffodils.\n"}
{"id": "24905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24905", "title": "Peyton Randolph", "text": "Peyton Randolph\n\nPeyton Randolph (September 10, 1721 – October 22, 1775) was a planter and public official from the Colony of Virginia. He served as Speaker of the Virginia House of Burgesses, president of Virginia Conventions, and the first President of the Continental Congress.\n\nRandolph was born in Tazewell Hall, Williamsburg, Virginia, to a prominent family. His parents were Sir John Randolph, the son of William Randolph, and Susanna Beverley, the daughter of Peter Beverley; his brother was John Randolph. Peyton Randolph was 16 when his father died.\n\nRandolph attended the College of William & Mary, and later studied law at Middle Temple at the Inns of Court in London, becoming a member of the bar in 1743. He lived his adulthood in Williamsburg.\n\nRandolph returned to Williamsburg and was appointed Attorney General of the Colony of Virginia the next year.\n\nHe served several terms in the Virginia House of Burgesses, beginning in 1748. It was Randolph's dual roles as attorney general and as burgess that would lead to an extraordinary conflict of interest in 1751.\n\nThe new governor, Robert Dinwiddie, had imposed a fee for the certification of land patents, which the House of Burgesses strongly objected to. The House selected Peyton Randolph to represent their cause to Crown authorities in London. In his role as attorney general, though, he was responsible for defending actions taken by the governor. Randolph left for London, over the objections of Governor Dinwiddie, and was replaced for a short time as attorney general by George Wythe. Randolph resumed his post on his return at the behest of Wythe as well as officials in London, who also recommended the Governor drop the new fee.\n\nIn 1765, Randolph found himself at odds with a freshman burgess, Patrick Henry, over the matter of a response to the Stamp Act. The House appointed Randolph to draft objections to the act, but his more conservative plan was trumped when Henry obtained passage of five of his seven Virginia Stamp Act Resolutions. This was accomplished at a meeting of the House in which most of the members were absent, and over which Randolph was presiding in the absence of the Speaker.\n\nRandolph resigned as king's attorney (attorney general) in 1766, as fellow Burgesses elected him as their Speaker upon the death of his relative, the powerful Speaker John Robinson. Sitting as the General Court, they also appointed Randolph one of the executors (with George Wythe and Edmund Pendleton) of the former speaker's estate, which was a major financial scandal. As friction between Britain and the colonies progressed, Randolph grew to favor independence. In 1769 the House of Burgesses was dissolved by the Governor, Norborne Berkeley, 4th Baron Botetourt, in response to its actions against the Townshend Acts. In 1773, Randolph chaired the Virginia committee of correspondence. The next Governor, John Murray, 4th Earl of Dunmore, also dissolved the House of Burgesses in 1774 when it showed solidarity with Boston, Massachusetts, following the Boston Port Act. Afterwards, Randolph chaired meetings of the first of five Virginia Conventions of former House members, principally at a Williamsburg tavern, which worked toward responses to the unwelcome tax measures imposed by the British government. On March 21, 1775, he was president of the Second Virginia Convention in Richmond that debated independence (the site of Patrick Henry's famous \"give me liberty\" speech). In April, Randolph negotiated with Lord Dunmore for gunpowder removed from the Williamsburg arsenal during the Gunpowder Incident, which was a confrontation between the Governor's forces and Virginia militia, led by Patrick Henry. The House of Burgesses was called back by Lord Dunmore one last time in June 1775 to address British Prime Minister Lord North's Conciliatory Resolution. Randolph, who was a delegate to the Continental Congress, returned to Williamsburg to take his place as Speaker. Randolph indicated that the resolution had not been sent to the Congress (it had instead been sent to each colony individually in an attempt to divide them and bypass the Continental Congress). The House of Burgesses rejected the proposal, which was also later rejected by the Continental Congress. Randolph was thus the last Speaker of the House of Burgesses (their role was replaced by the Virginia Conventions and later the House of Delegates in 1776). Randolph also served as the president of the Third Virginia Convention in July 1775, which as a legislative body elected a Committee of Safety to act as the colony's executive since Lord Dunmore had abandoned the capital and took refuge on a British warship. Edmund Pendleton would succeed Randolph as president of the later conventions.\n\nVirginia selected Randolph as one of its delegates to the Continental Congress in Philadelphia in 1774 and 1775. Fellow delegates elected him their president (Speaker) of both the First Continental Congress (which requested that King George III repeal the Coercive Acts) as well as Second Continental Congress (which extended the Olive Branch Petition as a final attempt at reconciliation). However, Randolph fell ill during each term. Henry Middleton of South Carolina succeeded him as president from his resignation on October 22, 1774, until his return on May 10, 1775. He was again elected President of Congress, but Randolph left for Virginia four days later and was succeeded as President by John Hancock. Randolph returned as a Virginia delegate but suffered a fit of apoplexy and died in Philadelphia on October 22, 1775.\n\nHis remains were returned to Williamsburg and were interred at the chapel of the College of William and Mary. Because the Continental Congress assumed governmental duties for the American colonies as a whole, such as appointing ambassadors, some consider Randolph to have been the first President of the United States, even though he died before the Declaration of Independence.\n\nThe Continental Congress honored Randolph by naming one of the first naval frigates as the USS \"Randolph\", as well by naming a fort at the junction of the Ohio and Kanawha Rivers as Fort Randolph.\n\nRandolph County, North Carolina, Randolph, Massachusetts, and Randolph County, Indiana, were named to honor the colonial statesman.\n\nDuring World War II, the early \"Essex\"-class aircraft carrier USS \"Randolph\" (CV-15) was named for him. Furthermore, the Peyton Randolph House in Colonial Williamsburg was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1970.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20381241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20381241", "title": "Pietro Ferrero", "text": "Pietro Ferrero\n\nPietro Ferrero (2 September 1898 – 2 March 1949) was the founder of Ferrero SpA, an Italian confectionery and chocolatier company. His company invented Nutella, a hazelnut-cream spread, which is now sold in over 160 countries. The famous Ferrero Rochers are also made by his company, Ferrero, as were Tic-Tacs and various Kinder chocolates.\n"}
{"id": "46292732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46292732", "title": "Play Meter", "text": "Play Meter\n\nPlay Meter (initially \"Coin Industry Play Meter\", ultimately \"Play Meter - \"The Operators´ Choice\"\") is an American trade magazine focusing on the coin-op and arcade game industry. It was founded in December 1974 by publisher and editor Ralph C. Lally II and it is published in physical form by Skybird Publishing on a monthly basis. \"Play Meter\" has published several bi-monthly and annual special issues throughout its history and it maintains a website where online content is also published monthly. The magazine is generally regarded as the premier trade magazine of the American video game industry and as the earliest example of video game journalism, establishing such practices as individual video game reviews and the ten-point assessment scale for video game reviews.\n\n\"Play Meter\" also served as the parent organization of the first coin-op-oriented spring trade show (forerunner to North America's annual Amusement Expo), and together with rival publication \"RePlay\" (founded 1975) it represents the only trade magazine to chronicle the arcade industry in its nascency, through market fluctuations like the video game crashes of 1977 and 1983, and through the rebirth and maturation of the medium through the 1980s.\n\n\nThroughout its history \"Play Meter\" has released a number of special issues. These issues are scheduled at a slower pace (typically bi-monthly or annually) and they cover specific details of the Arcade and Coin-Op markets.\n"}
{"id": "4700946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4700946", "title": "Policy Governance", "text": "Policy Governance\n\nPolicy Governance, informally known as the Carver model, is a system for organizational governance. Policy Governance defines and guides appropriate relationships between an organization's owners, its board of directors, and its chief executive.\n\nThe Policy Governance approach was first developed in the 1970s by John Carver who has registered the term as a service mark in order to control accurate description of the model. The model is available for all to use without royalties or license fees and has been adopted by commercial, nonprofit, and public sector organizations.\n\nThere are ten Principles of Policy Governance.\n\nPrinciples 1-3 define an organization's ownership, the board's responsibility to it, and the board's authority. Principles 4-7 specify that the board defines in writing policies identifying the benefits that should come about from the organization, how the board should conduct itself, and how staff behavior is to be proscribed. Principles 8-10 deal with the board's delegation and monitoring.\n\nIn general, if a board applies ALL of the principles of Policy Governance in its process and decision-making, then the board is likely practicing the model. If a board applies fewer than all the principles, it weakens or destroys the model’s effectiveness as a system.\n\nAuthors of the Policy Governance model say it is a paradigm shift from the traditional practice of governance and that it provides a clear differentiation between governance and management responsibilities in organizations.\nPolicy Governance begins with a definition of governance as \"Seeing to it that the organization achieves what it should and avoids unacceptable situations.\" From this definition, board governance is at an arm's length from operations.\n\nThe board's primary relationship is with the organization's 'ownership'. As a result, governance is a downward extension of ownership rather than an upward extension of management. In this space, the board, as a single entity, assumes a governance position that is the link between ownership and the operational organization. That governance position is a commanding authority. The board exists to exercise that commanding authority and to properly empower others. \"Proper empowerment\" means to define the results to be achieved by the organization (Ends), and define what would be considered unacceptable in terms of ethics and prudence (Executive Limitations). The board delegates the job of achieving its Ends within the parameters defined in policy to the CEO. To complete the delegation, the board rigorously monitors performance to policy to uphold accountability of the CEO.\n\nIn Policy Governance, the board has three primary jobs: Ownership Linkage - connecting with owners to learn their values about ends that are desired and means that would be unacceptable; Policy Development - writing those values as guidance for organization and for the board itself; and Assurance of Organizational Performance - monitoring to ensure the organization demonstrates reasonable progress toward desired ends and reasonable compliance with policy guiding means. The board's focus is at the broadest level of policy informed by the ownership's values. When writing policy, the board only goes into as much detail as needed, and stops making policy when it can accept any reasonable interpretation of its policy language.\n\nExperts in the model argue boards should govern with an emphasis on (a) outward vision rather than an internal preoccupation, (b) encouragement of diversity in viewpoints, (c) strategic leadership more than administrative detail, (d) clear distinction of board and chief executive roles, (e) collective rather than individual decisions, (f) future rather than past or present, and (g) proactivity rather than reactivity.\n\nTemplates of policies are provided in the literature and by those trained in the model in order to illustrate what model-consistent policies might look like. However these templates are not themselves the model and their use does not substitute for a board developing its own policies using the model’s principles. Each policy that a board adopts should be an organizational value statement that reflects the shared values of that organization's ownership.\n\nMany people confuse modification of policy language so that it fits their organization with changing the model itself. Model-consistent practice is assessed by considering whether board performance aligns with the model's principles, not by reviewing the policy language that is adopted.\n\nIndustry Canada in the \"Primer For Directors of Not-For–Profit Corporations\" expressed concern about Policy Governance. They argue that “Some models of board governance—notably originating in the United States—advocate that directors limit themselves to policy matters only and leave responsibility for administration and day-to-day matters with the executive staff of the corporation. This limited role for directors does not reflect the obligations that are legally imposed upon directors.” \n\nHugh Kelly QC of the Canadian legal firm Miller Thomson LLP responded directly to this criticism concluding that: “The board of a Canadian charitable corporation that adopts Policy Governance has performed 'due diligence', and fulfilled all legal obligations imposed upon its directors. On a comparative basis, such boards and directors are far ahead of most corporations, even those in the world of commerce, in observing their legal and moral obligations.” \n\nOthers have expressed concern that the Policy Governance model may not be as universally applicable as suggested by Carver and that the model has a tendency to break down during times of crisis. Addressing the universality concern, proponents of Policy Governance argue that, because the model is rooted in the generic purpose and nature of board authority rather than current practice of the specifics of any industry, at the level of its fundamental principles Policy Governance is indeed applicable to all governing boards. Proponents also argue that at times of crisis, holding onto the precepts of Policy Governance is in fact key to organizational survival and that rehearsing the use of the system in light of various scenarios can help build an organization's resilience to risk. \n\nTwo more widely accepted criticisms are that the model demands a level of precision that boards can find hard to achieve—even though it is usually no more than they demand of their staff—and without care, that the model's use can deteriorate over time and its protections fail to function. Many proponents point to the challenges presented by board member turnover and the need, as with any other professional discipline, for boards to continuously invest in their own training and support. \n\nSome authors and users of the model may misinterpret the distinction between 'ends' and 'means' to require a strict separation of responsibility between the board, which should focus exclusively on 'ends', and management, which should focus on the 'means' by which to achieve those ends. This interpretation is not supported by a close reading of the Policy Governance model. Carver states: \n\"because the board is accountable for everything, it is accountable for means as well. Accordingly, it must exercise control over both ends and means, so having the ends/means distinction does not in itself relieve boards from any responsibility\".\n\nAnother, related, misinterpretation is a belief that boards following Carver's model should not involve themselves with detailed understanding and/or monitoring of the organization's activities. This belief is based on Carver's caution against excessive intrusion into the operational details. However, Carver is clear that boards remain accountable to their owners for all operational details and must therefore control them—the question is how to make this practical. As a way to avoid excessive intrusion, he advises the use of 'nested sets' of expectations, in progressively more narrow policy language, in order to define its meaning with greater precision until: \"At some point, the board will have narrowed its words to the point that it can accept any reasonable interpretation of those words. Now the board has reached the point of delegation\".\n\nBecause a board has ultimate power over the organization, to include all its operations, some critics point out that a board should not delegate any of its authority, because it ignores major areas of its responsibility if it \"hands over\" part of its power to the CEO. This criticism points out that delegation, the granting of authority to the CEO, can become an \"abdication\" of the board's responsibility to control all organizational actions. Delegation can become an abdication if it occurs without adequate supervision. Delegation accompanied by careful monitoring to ensure it achieves the results intended is an exercise of the \"due diligence\" expected of the board.\n\nFurther criticism relates to the failure of some boards to follow their own policies. Following policies that guide the board in its own governance process, and its relationship with the CEO, is an act of self-discipline by which the board imposes checks and balances on its own power. These self-limiting policies protect staff from board actions that might get in the way of successful organizational performance. They also protect the CEO, and the board itself, from possible actions of individual board members. A board may give a false sense that it is acting in the best interests of the organization while ignoring its own policies, and therefore promotes a \"veil\" of legitimacy behind which it acts in capricious ways. Such a board distracts itself from the real job boards should be doing. Ultimately, whether a board remains true to its own policies is a matter for the board itself to determine. Carver notes this concern when he acknowledges that Policy Governance will not make \"a bad board good.\"\n\n\nSome organizations mentioning use of Policy Governance or the Carver Model:\n"}
{"id": "51772853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51772853", "title": "SAP BusinessObjects Lumira", "text": "SAP BusinessObjects Lumira\n\nSAP BusinessObjects Lumira also known as Lumira is a business intelligence software developed and marketed by SAP BusinessObjects. The software is used to manipulate and visualize data.\n\nLumira was initially launched as SAP Visual Intelligence in 2012. The first edition of the software could only use SAP's HANA platform as a data source. The second release expanded data sources to include CSV and Excel files. In 2013, SAP rebranded the software under the Lumira name and began offering a version of the software as a cloud computing program. In 2015, the cloud version of Lumira was absorbed into SAP's Cloud For Analytics software, while the Lumira Server and Lumira Desktop software remained separate. \n\nIn 2016, Lumira 2.x was announced. The upcoming software is said to be able to run applications from the Design Studio 1.6 data visualization software.\n\n"}
{"id": "29485487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29485487", "title": "Saul Solomon", "text": "Saul Solomon\n\nSaul Solomon (25 May 1817 – 16 October 1892) was an influential liberal politician of the Cape Colony. A tireless defender of racial and religious equality, Saul Solomon was an important member of the movement for responsible government and an opponent of Lord Carnarvon's disastrous Confederation scheme.\n\nSaul Solomon was born on the island of St Helena on 25 May 1817 (the nephew of the great St Helena businessman Saul Solomon senior). Although his family were St Helenan, they had close links to Cape Town. Saul spent his first few years at a Jewish children's home in England, where he suffered from the malnutrition and rickets that physically affected him for the rest of his life. He then had a rudimentary formal education in South Africa before beginning work as an apprentice in a printing business. He later acquired the business and built it into the largest printing business in the country, founding the \"Cape Argus\" newspaper. He was also one of the founders of Old Mutual, today one of the largest insurance firms in South Africa.\n\nAs representative for Cape Town, Solomon entered the very first Parliament of the Cape of Good Hope (Cape Parliament) when it opened in 1854. He remained an MP for this constituency until his retirement in 1883.\n\nSaul Solomon's original election promise had been \"to give my decided opposition to all legislation tending to introduce distinctions either of class, colour or creed\".\nThroughout his political career he strictly adhered to this manifesto – repeatedly turning down both cabinet and ministerial posts so as to be free to vote according to his beliefs.\nHe thus assumed a unique role in parliament, being a watchdog critic, as well as sometimes the power behind the government, depending on its policies.\n\nAlthough he was from a Jewish background and even funded the establishment of the Cape's first synagogue in 1849, Solomon was openly secular in outlook, declaring himself to be \"a liberal in politics and a voluntary in religion\". In the first Cape parliament in 1854, he presented his \"Voluntary bill\" (intended to end government subsidies to churches, and to ensure equal treatment of all beliefs) but it was turned down. He proceeded to put it to parliament every year, only for it to be repeatedly rejected, until it was finally passed under the Molteno government in 1875.\n\nSolomon joined the movement for responsible government in the Cape and helped to institute it when it was established in 1872. The leader of the responsible government movement, Prime Minister John Charles Molteno, was an old friend and a great admirer of Saul Solomon's politics. The two men were both businessmen from poor immigrant backgrounds, who had outlooks that were relatively liberal for the times, and saw eye-to-eye on a number of issues. In fact, according to Saul Solomon's official biography, Molteno only accepted the office of Prime Minister after insisting that it first be offered to Solomon, who turned it down however due to his delicate health.\nSolomon went on to give his powerful support to the Molteno Ministry on many occasions in the future, though he characteristically refused all offers of cabinet positions so as to be able to oppose the government if and when his conscience required it.\n\nThe eastern part of the Cape Colony had a long-running separatist movement, consisting of a portion of white settlers (the \"Easterners\"), led by parliamentarian John Paterson of Port Elizabeth, who resented the rule of the Cape Town parliament and wanted stricter labour laws to encourage the Xhosa to leave their lands and work on the settlers’ plantations.\n\nIn accordance with his stated policy that \"natives should be allowed to sell their labour as they desired, and that no semblance of coercion should be employed to provide labour for the farmer\" and because he detested the Easterners' white supremacist views, Solomon took a strong stance against the separatist movement and for a united, multi-racial Cape.\n\nFamously, when he was addressing parliament about the need to enforce the principles of racial equality that the Cape's constitution called for, the Separatist representatives all stood up and walked out on him. After a second's pause, he reportedly declared: \"I would rather address empty benches than empty minds!\"\n\nIn parliament he went on to lead the \"Westerners\", who backed the Molteno–Merriman government in successfully crushing the separatist league. Separatist parliamentarians branded him a \"negrophile\" – an intended insult that he in fact accepted with considerable pride, and he went on to push even further for social reform (for example repealing the discriminatory Contagious Diseases act).\n\nStarting in 1874, the British Secretary of State for the Colonies, Lord Carnarvon, having federated Canada, began an ill-fated plan to impose the same system of confederation on the very different states of southern Africa.\nAlthough earlier in his career Solomon had been in favour of a form of federated \"United States of Southern Africa\", he shared with the Cape government concerns about the form and timing of Carnarvon's confederation project. Of particular concern to many liberal politicians were the repressive \"native policies\" of Natal and the Boer republics (which would have affected the rights of many Cape citizens). Saul Solomon joined the Cape government in arguing that the Cape's multi-racial constitution might not survive a session of bargaining with the Boer republics. \nAnother issue was the fact that some neighbouring states, such as Zululand and the Transvaal Republic, would actually require military invasion to be incorporated into the confederation. Consequently, Solomon ended up vigorously opposing Carnarvon's proposal and the \"new and impatient imperialism\" which motivated it.\n\nAs an alternative, Solomon proposed a looser system of federation, whereby the Cape could preserve its multi-racial franchise. Another proposed alternative was the \"Molteno Plan\" of the Cape Government, which advocated complete union instead of confederation, but with the Cape's constitution (including the multi-racial franchise) extended and imposed on the other states of southern Africa.\nBoth suggestions were ignored by the British Colonial Office and over the next few years Carnarvon's disastrous confederation scheme unravelled as predicted, leaving a swath of destructive wars across southern Africa.\n\nTo further the Confederation scheme, the British Governor had appointed a new and more compliant government, under the puppet Prime Minister Gordon Sprigg. Against the backdrop of the wider \"Confederation wars\" that now swept southern Africa, Sprigg began to institute a more discriminatory policy towards the Cape's Black African citizens, and this led to revolts and further conflicts like the Basuto Gun War.\n\nAlthough Saul Solomon had initially agreed to accept Sprigg's new government, its discriminatory policies immediately brought down his strongest criticism, which was voiced through his various media outlets. This culminated in his public campaign against the government for its role in the Koegas atrocities.\n\nSprigg's retaliation was swift. He ordered a review and cancellation of all government contracts with the Argus and other businesses that were linked to Saul Solomon. These were all given to political allies (though without the equipment to fulfill them and at several times the price). Meanwhile, Sprigg's Attorney-General, Upington, launched a series of high-profile lawsuits (bordering on show trials) against Solomon himself.\n\nSolomon's editor, the brilliant but contrarian Patrick McLoughlin, had supposedly anonymously written several pieces criticising the Sprigg government and the British colonial establishment, the most imfamous of which was entitled \"Pro Bono Publico\" (\"For the Public Good\"). A series of libel lawsuits were launched by the Sprigg government, ultimately targeting Solomon, whom it tried to link the pamphlets too.\n\nAlthough it was never proven that McLoughlin even authored the pamphlets in question (and Solomon believed he had not), the trial and related pressures caused McLoughlin to resign (he shot himself a few years later). The Sprigg party failed however, to bring Solomon himself down.\n\nThe following year, Solomon's enemies had another opportunity. The Argus printed reports of racism and miscarriage of justice regarding the earlier trials for the Koegas murders, which had been sent to it signed \"Fiat Justitia\" (\"May there be justice\").\n\nThis generated another round of political trials. These attacked Solomon's new editor, Francis Dormer, for libel but again sought ultimately to damage Solomon himself. \nOnce again the editor fell, and once again Solomon survived, in spite of losing the trial. Crucially, he produced letters from the Koegas trial judge asking him to publish the information, and detailing the brutal violence of the murders and the racism which had prevented justice being done.\n\n\"Fiat Justitia\" ultimately turned out to have been Mr D.P. Faure, who had served as the Koegas court interpreter. Faure was driven from his official career by the Sprigg government, but Solomon later sought out the unemployed Faure and gave him a token translator job with the Argus.\n\nSolomon emerged from these attacks financially damaged, but largely victorious. The government, frantically cutting back on core infrastructure to avoid bankruptcy from its war expenses, became increasingly unpopular. When its British backers were recalled to London to face charges of misconduct, the Sprigg government fell.\n\nPhysically, Solomon was partially disabled. Childhood poverty and ill health, aggravated by a bout of rickets, had left him with badly stunted legs. When standing, this made him so short that he needed to stand on a chair to be seen when addressing Parliament. \nHis physical condition was particularly drawn attention to by his very high-pitched voice, as well as by the frequent presence by his side of his friend and political ally Molteno, who was unusually tall, and the image of the two men together was a topic for caricature by the political cartoonists of the time.\n\nSaul Solomon was nonetheless a famously eloquent and persuasive speaker, with an incredibly sharp mind and a skill for reasoned argument. His proposals were usually painstakingly researched and he characteristically spent long hours studying censuses and other government publications for the precise facts and figures that he believed should inform his opinions. Consequently, he was typically always able to back up his opinions with great quantities of evidence as well as with a clear and sophisticated application of logic. This earned him considerable respect, even from his political opponents.\nAn example is the cautious and guarded homage which writer Stanley Little, a political opponent, later paid to Saul Solomon in his 1887 work on the Cape's political leadership. \nHis progressive views on equal rights extended to gender relations (for his marriage ceremony he famously asked that his wife should not have to vow to \"obey\" him), religion (He never officially renounced his Judaism, but he abhorred sectarian attitudes and attended churches as often as synagogues) and class (He asked his employees and household servants to simply call him \"Saul\").\n\nHe lived at Clarensville House in Sea Point, Cape Town for most of his life. He married Georgiana Margaret Thomson at his house on 21 March 1874. She was a head teacher 29 to his age of 56. He and Georgiana enjoyed welcoming guests as varied as Cetewayo, King of the Zulus, and the future Kings, Princes Edward and George. However, after his daughter tragically drowned near their property in 1881, Solomon's health declined and he withdrew from public life, even handing his business over to his nephews.\n\nHe retired from public life completely in 1883 due to poor health and moved to Kilcreggan, Scotland, in 1888. <br>\nIt was here that he died in 1892, of \"Chronic tubular nephritis\".\n\nSaul Solomon's extended family remained deeply involved in politics and law in southern Africa for many years – though they varied greatly in their political allegiance. In particular, his nephews Sir Richard Solomon and Edward Philip Solomon were very influential at the time of the Boer War and the lead up to the Union of South Africa; their brother William Henry became the Union's Chief Justice. Solomon's wife Georgiana survived him by over 40 years, and was an influential suffragette. Of his three children, Daisy Solomon was also a suffragette, Hon. Saul Solomon was a high court Judge, and William Ewart Gladstone Solomon was a noted painter.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49169990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49169990", "title": "Serviço Brasileiro de Apoio às Micro e Pequenas Empresas", "text": "Serviço Brasileiro de Apoio às Micro e Pequenas Empresas\n\nSEBRAE or Serviço Brasileiro de Apoio às Micro e Pequenas Empresas (Portuguese: \"Brazilian Micro and Small Enterprises' Support Service\"), is a Brazilian autonomous social institution part of the Sistema S whose aim is to foster the development of micro and small enterprises, stimulating entrepreneurship in the country .\n\nFounded in 1972 with the name of CEBRAE (Centro Brasileiro de Apoio à Pequena e Média Empresa), it was an entity associated with the Brazilian federal government. In October 1990, it was renamed Sebrae (Serviço Brasileiro de apoio às Micro e Pequenas Empresas), detaching itself from public administration and becoming an autonomous, non-profit social service.\n\nSebrae's current chairman is Guilherme Afif Domingos. The president of its National Deliberative Council is Roberto Simões.\n\n"}
{"id": "17686310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17686310", "title": "Sovereign default", "text": "Sovereign default\n\nA sovereign default () is the failure or refusal of the government of a sovereign state to pay back its debt in full. Cessation of due payments (or receivables) may either be accompanied by formal declaration (repudiation) of a government not to pay (or only partially pay) its debts, or it may be unannounced. A credit rating agency will take into account in its gradings capital, interest, extraneous and procedural defaults, failures to abide by the terms of bonds or other debt instruments. Countries have at times escaped the real burden of some of their debt through inflation. This is not \"default\" in the usual sense because the debt is honored, albeit with currency of lesser real value. Sometimes governments devalue their currency. This can be done by printing more money to apply toward their own debts, or by ending or altering the convertibility of their currencies into precious metals or foreign currency at fixed rates. Harder to quantify than an interest or capital default, this often is defined as an extraneous or procedural default (breach) of terms of the contracts or other instruments.\n\nIf potential lenders or bond purchasers begin to suspect that a government may fail to pay back its debt, they may demand a high interest rate in compensation for the risk of default. A dramatic rise in the interest rate faced by a government due to fear that it will fail to honor its debt is sometimes called a sovereign debt crisis. Governments may be especially vulnerable to a sovereign debt crisis when they rely on financing through short-term bonds, since this creates a situation of maturity mismatch between their short-term bond financing and the long-term asset value of their tax base.\n\nThey may also be vulnerable to a sovereign debt crisis due to currency mismatch: if few bonds in their own currency are accepted abroad, and so the country issues mainly foreign-denominated bonds, decrease in the value of their own currency can make it prohibitively expensive to pay back their foreign-denominated bonds (see original sin).\n\nSince a sovereign government, by definition, controls its own affairs, it cannot be obliged to pay back its debt. Nonetheless, governments may face severe pressure from lending countries. In a few extreme cases, a major creditor nation, before the establishment of the UN Charter Article 2 (4) prohibiting use of force by states, made threats of war or waged war against a debtor nation for failing to pay back debt to seize assets to enforce its creditor's rights. For example, Britain invaded Egypt in 1882. Other examples include the United States' \"gunboat diplomacy\" in Venezuela in the mid-1890s and the United States occupation of Haiti beginning in 1915.\n\nToday a government which defaults may be widely excluded from further credit, some of its overseas assets may be seized; and it may face political pressure from its own domestic bondholders to pay back its debt. Therefore, governments rarely default on the entire value of their debt. Instead, they often enter into negotiations with their bondholders to agree on a delay (debt restructuring) or partial reduction of their debt (a 'haircut or write-off').\n\nSome economists have argued that, in the case of acute insolvency crises, it can be advisable for regulators and supranational lenders to preemptively engineer the orderly restructuring of a nation’s public debt- also called \"orderly default\" or \"controlled default\". In the case of Greece, these experts generally believe that a delay in organising an orderly default would hurt the rest of Europe even more.\n\nThe International Monetary Fund often lends for sovereign debt restructuring. To ensure that funds will be available to pay the remaining part of the sovereign debt, it has made such loans conditional on acts such as reducing corruption, imposing austerity measures such as reducing non-profitable public sector services, raising the tax take (revenue) or more rarely suggesting other forms of revenue raising such as nationalization of inept or corrupt but lucrative economic sectors. A recent example is the Greek bailout agreement of May 2010.\n\nAccording to financial historian Edward Chancellor, past instances of sovereign default have tended to occur under some or all of the following circumstances:\n\nA significant factor in sovereign default is the presence of significant debts owed to foreign investors such as banks who are unable to obtain timely payment via political support from governments, supranational courts or negotiation; the enforcement of creditors' rights against sovereign states is frequently difficult. Such willful defaults (the equivalent of strategic bankruptcy by a company or strategic default by a mortgager, except without the possibility of the exercise of normal creditors' rights such as asset seizure and sale) can be considered a variety of sovereign theft; this is similar to expropriation (including inadequate repayment for the exercise of eminent domain). Some also believe that sovereign default is a dark side of globalization and capitalism.\n\nIf a state, for economic reasons, defaults on its treasury obligations, or is no longer able or willing to handle its debt, liabilities, or to pay the interest on this debt, it faces sovereign default. To declare insolvency, it is sufficient if the state is only able (or willing) to pay part of its due interest or to clear off only part of the debt.\n\nReasons for this include:\n\nSovereign default caused by insolvency historically has always appeared at the end of long years or decades of budget emergency (overspending), in which the state has spent more money than it received. This budget balance/margin was covered through new indebtedness with national and foreign citizens, banks and states.\n\nThe literature proposes an important distinction between \"illiquidity\" and \"insolvency\". If a country is temporarily unable to meet pending interest or principle payments because it can not liquify sufficient assets, it is \"in default because of illiquidity\". In this concept the default can be solved as soon as the assets which are \"only temporarily illiquid\" become \"liquid\" (again), which makes illiquidity a temporary state - in contrast to insolvency. The weakness of this concept is that is practically impossible to prove that an asset is only temporarily illiquid.\n\nWhile normally the change of government does not change the responsibility of the state to handle treasury obligations created by earlier governments, nevertheless it can be observed that in revolutionary situations and after a regime change the new government may question the legitimacy of the earlier one, and thus default on those treasury obligations considered odious debt.\n\nImportant examples are:\n\nWith the decline of a state, its obligations are turned over to one or several successor states.\n\nLost wars significantly accelerate sovereign default. Nevertheless, especially after World War II the government debt has increased significantly in many countries even during long lasting times of peace. While in the beginning debt was quite small, due to compound interest and continued overspending it has increased substantially.\n\nThere are two different theories as to why sovereign countries repay their debt.\n\nThe reputation approach stipulates that countries value the access to international capital markets because it allows them to smooth consumption in the face of volatile output and/or fluctuating investment opportunities. This approach assumes no outside factors such as legal or military action because the debtor is a sovereign country. Debtor countries with poor reputations will lack access to these capital markets.\n\nThe punishment approach stipulates that the debtor will be punished in some form, whether it be by legal action and/or military force. The creditor will use legal and/or military threats to see their investment returned. The punishment may prevent debtors from being able to borrow in their own currency.\n\nCreditors of the state as well the economy and the citizens of the state are affected by the sovereign default.\n\nThe immediate cost to creditors is the loss of principal and interest owed on their loans to the defaulting country.\n\nIn this case very often there are international negotiations which end in a partial debt cancellation (London Agreement on German External Debts 1953) or debt restructuring (e.g. Brady Bonds in the 1980s). This kind of agreement assures the partial repayment when a renunciation / surrender of a big part of the debt is accepted by the creditor. In the case of the Argentine economic crisis (1999–2002) some creditors elected to accept the renunciation (loss, or \"haircut\") of up to 75% of the outstanding debts, while others ( \"holdouts\") elected instead to await a change of government (2015) for offers of better compensation.\n\nFor the purpose of debts regulation debts can be distinguished by nationality of creditor (national or international), or by the currency of the debts (own currency or foreign currency) as well as whether the foreign creditors are private or state owned. States are frequently more willing to cancel debts owed to foreign private creditors, unless those creditors have means of retaliation against the state.\n\nWhen a state defaults on a debt, the state disposes of (or ignores, depending on the viewpoint) its financial obligations/debts towards certain creditors. The immediate effect for the state is a reduction in its total debt and a reduction in payments on the interest of that debt. On the other hand, a default can damage the reputation of the state among creditors, which can restrict the ability of the state to obtain credit from the capital market. In some cases foreign lenders may attempt to undermine the monetary sovereignty of the debtor state or even declare war (see above).\n\nIf the individual citizen or corporate citizen is a creditor of the state (e.g. government bonds), then a default by the state can mean a devaluation of their monetary wealth.\n\nIn addition, the following scenarios can occur in a debtor state from a sovereign default:\n\nCitizens of a debtor state might feel the impact indirectly through high unemployment and the decrease of state services and benefits. However, a monetarily sovereign state can take steps to minimize negative consequences, rebalance the economy and foster social/economic progress, for example Brazil's Plano Real.\n\nWith the reputation of the Big Three – Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch Group – coming under fire since the 2008 financial crisis, many have questioned their ratings methods. Marc Joffe, a former Senior Director at Moody's and now Principal Consultant at Public Sector Credit Solutions (PSCS), has recently argued that economists and other academic social scientists, via logit and probit econometric models, are better equipped than ratings agencies to assess the default risk of sovereigns and municipalities. To support better ratings methods, PSCS (in partnership with Wikirating) maintains a comprehensive public database of sovereign defaults, revenues, expenditures, debt levels, and debt service costs. PSCS has also developed the Public Sector Credit Framework, an open source budget simulation model that helps analysts assess default probabilities.\n\nA failure of a nation to meet bond repayments has been seen on many occasions. Philip II of Spain defaulted on debt four times – in 1557, 1560, 1575 and 1596 – becoming the first nation in history to declare sovereign default due to rising military costs and the declining value of gold, as it had become increasingly dependent on the revenues flowing in from its mercantile empire in the Americas. This sovereign default threw the German banking houses into chaos and ended the reign of the Fuggers as Spanish financiers. Genoese bankers provided the unwieldy Habsburg system with fluid credit and a dependably regular income. In return the less dependable shipments of American silver were rapidly transferred from Seville to Genoa, to provide capital for further military ventures.\n\nIn the 1820s, several Latin American countries which had recently entered the bond market in London defaulted. These same countries frequently defaulted during the nineteenth century, but the situation was typically rapidly resolved with a renegotiation of loans, including the writing off of some debts.\n\nA failure to meet payments became common again in the late 1920s and 1930s; as protectionism by wealthy nations rose and international trade fell especially after the banking crisis of 1929, countries possessing debts denominated in other currencies found it increasingly difficult to meet terms agreed under more favourable economic conditions. For example, in 1932, Chile's scheduled repayments exceeded the nation's total exports (or, at least, its exports under current pricing; whether reductions in prices – forced sales – would have enabled fulfilling creditors' rights is unknown).\n\nMore recently Greece became the first developed country to default to the International Monetary Fund. In June 2015 Greece defaulted on a $1.7 billion payment to the IMF.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "883979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=883979", "title": "Susan Buffett", "text": "Susan Buffett\n\nSusan Thompson Buffett (June 15, 1932 – July 29, 2004), the first wife of investor Warren Buffett, was active in civil rights, abortion rights and birth control causes. She was a director of Berkshire Hathaway, owning 2.2 percent (worth US$3 billion in 2004) of the company at the time of her death. She was the 153rd richest person in the world. She was president of the Buffett Foundation, which has contributed millions of dollars to educational groups, medical research, family planning groups and other charities.\n\nSusan was born in Omaha, Nebraska, and graduated from Omaha Central High School. Her father, William Hertzog Thompson, was a minister, psychologist, dean at the University of Nebraska-Omaha, and one-time campaign manager for Howard Buffett.\n\nThough her parents and Warren's knew one another, they met at Northwestern University, via Susan's roommate Roberta Buffett, Warren's sister.\n\nSusan and Warren married in 1952 at the Dundee Presbyterian Church in Omaha. They had three children together: Susan (born July 30, 1953), Howard (born December 16, 1954), and Peter (born May 4, 1958).\n\nShe occasionally performed as a cabaret singer and, in 1977, had a one-night performance at an Omaha theater. Encouraged by songwriter/musician Neil Sedaka to pursue a singing career, she left her husband and moved to San Francisco. She started out living in a small apartment in Gramercy Tower on Nob Hill. Later she moved into a large condominium on Broadway near Scott Street in Pacific Heights with views of the Golden Gate Bridge and Alcatraz. She remained married and on good terms with her husband, vacationing together with him and spending time assisting charitable groups. She performed in New York and released several CDs. According to Roger Lowenstein's 1995 Random House biography, \"\", while Warren encouraged Susan to pursue her career in music, he was soon heartbroken by her move.\n\nIn 1978, Susan introduced her husband to Astrid Menks, who moved in with Warren in their Omaha home, and after Susan's death, married him.\n\nThe Buffetts never divorced and even attended public functions as husband and wife though they hadn't lived together for more than half of their marriage. The Buffetts even signed Christmas cards Warren, Susan, and Astrid and were often seen together as a trio.\n\nIn October 2003, Susan was diagnosed with oral cancer; she underwent surgery, radiation therapy and facial reconstruction. Warren flew out from Omaha to be with her every weekend during her recovery and the couple would later contribute $6 million to five California doctors for the study of oral cancer. She had recovered enough to attend the annual shareholders' meeting of Berkshire Hathaway in May 2004, leading a singalong at the Borsheim's reception.\n\nSusan died at the age of 72 after suffering a cerebral hemorrhage during the summer of 2004 in Cody, Wyoming. Bono performed \"Forever Young\" and \"All I Want Is You\" at her funeral. Warren was so grief-stricken that he did not attend. She left approximately $50 million to her children's charity while each of her children received $10 million and each grandchild received $100,000. She also left a number of friends and employees substantial sums, including $8 million to John McCabe and $1 million to Ron Parks. Nearly all of her Berkshire Hathaway shares, valued at nearly $3 billion at the time, were left to a foundation that would later bear her name.\n\n"}
{"id": "31969246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31969246", "title": "Tengku Sulaiman Shah", "text": "Tengku Sulaiman Shah\n\nTengku Sulaiman Shah ibni Almarhum Sultan Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Shah (born 17 July 1950) is a Malaysian corporate figure and a member of the Selangor Royal Family. He is the second son of eighth Sultan, Sultan Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Shah and the brother of the current Sultan, Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah.\n\nTengku Sulaiman Shah was born on 17 June 1950 in Kampung Baru, Kuala Lumpur the State Capital of Selangor at that time. He is the fourth child and second son of the Raja Muda (Crown Prince) of Selangor, Tengku Abdul Aziz Shah and his first wife, Raja Saidatul Ihsan Binti Al-Marhum Tengku Badar Shah (YMM \"Paduka Bonda Raja\") (b. 1923–2011). He was educated in Pakistan and the United Kingdom.\n\nHis father became the Sultan of Selangor on 1 September 1960, after the death of his grandfather Almarhum Sultan Hisamudin Alam Shah Alhaj and becoming Sultan Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Shah.\n\nOn 15 January 1972, the late Sultan of Selangor, His Royal Highness Sultan Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Shah Alhaj has appointed H.H. Tengku Sulaiman Shah Alhaj as H.H. \"Tengku Panglima Besar\" and held the post for six years. \nOn 1 August 1978, the late Sultan of Selangor, His Royal Highness Sultan Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Shah Alhaj raised the rank of H.H. Tengku Sulaiman Shah Alhaj as H.H. \"Tengku Panglima Diraja\" and held the post for 38 years.\nOn the 1 July 2016, the current Sultan of Selangor and also his eldest brother, His Royal Highness Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah has consented to promote and appoint H.H. Tengku Sulaiman Shah Alhaj as H.H. \"Tengku Laksamana\" of Selangor.\nHe is also a member of The Council of the Royal Court of Selangor (\"Dewan Diraja Selangor\").\n\nTengku Sulaiman Shah returned to Malaysia in 1970. In 1971, the late Sultan of Selangor, His Royal Highness Sultan Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Shah Alhaj required him to work with the international advertising company called SH Benson Sdn Bhd (later renamed as Ogilvy Benson & Mather (OBM) Sdn Bhd and latest Ogilvy & Mather Sdn Bhd). He was attached in Audio Visual department and gained wide knowledge in the advertising and branding industry. In 1975, he left the company and began venturing into the construction sector. His motivation drives him to be more enterprising and ultimate goal is to be a major player in the construction industry. He and other partners founded Syarikat Pembinaan Setia Sdn Bhd which later known as SP Setia a public listed company in the main board. In 1997, he relinquished his stake in the company. Currently, he is the Chairman and director at Goodway Integrated Industries Berhad (GIIB) and Khansforge International Sdn Bhd. Tengku Sulaiman Shah is the Chairman of Malaysia - UAE Business Council appointed by Ministry of International Trade and Industry (Malaysia) (MITI).\n\nOn the 2nd May 1977, he is married to the \"Tunku Puteri of Johor\", Tunku Kamariah Aminah Maimunah Iskandariah (born 11 July 1956), the eldest daughter of the late Sultan of Johor, Sultan Iskandar and also eldest sister of the current Sultan of Johor, Sultan Ibrahim Ismail. \nIn 1982, she been conferred the title of \"Tunku Puteri Johor\" by her father the late Sultan of Johor, Sultan Iskandar. She also received the title \" Tengku Puan Laksamana of Selangor \".\n\nThey have been awarded :\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1686266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1686266", "title": "Tinnitus retraining therapy", "text": "Tinnitus retraining therapy\n\nTinnitus retraining therapy (TRT) is a form of habituation therapy designed to help people who suffer from tinnitus, a ringing, buzzing, hissing, or other sound in the ears when no external sound is present. Two key components of TRT directly follow from the neurophysiological model of tinnitus. One of these principles includes directive counseling aimed at reclassification of tinnitus to a category of neutral signals, while the other includes sound therapy which is aimed at weakening tinnitus related neuronal activity.\n\nThe goal of TRT is management of tinnitus; there is no evidence that TRT can attenuate or eliminate tinnitus. The efficacy of TRT in reducing the distress of tinnitus has not been established. TRT is not a medical treatment for tinnitus or any other condition, and is not administered by a medical doctor or other medical professional.\n\nAn alternative to TRT is tinnitus masking, the use of noise, music or other environmental sounds to obscure or mask the tinnitus. Hearing aids can provide a partial masking effect for the condition. Results from a review of tinnitus retraining therapy trials indicate that it may be a more effective treatment than tinnitus masking.\n\nNot everyone who experiences tinnitus is significantly bothered by it. However, some of the problems caused by tinnitus include annoyance, anxiety, panic, and loss of sleep and/or concentration. The distress of tinnitus is strongly associated with various psychological factors; loudness, duration and other characteristics of the tinnitus are secondary.\n\nTRT may offer real although moderate improvement in tinnitus suffering for adults with moderate-to-severe tinnitus, in the absence of hyperacusis, significant hearing loss and/or depression. Not everyone is a good candidate for TRT. Factors associated with suitability for TRT and predisposing for favorable outcome are: lower loudness of tinnitus, higher pitch of tinnitus, shorter duration of tinnitus since onset, recognition of tinnitus attenuation by sound generator, lower hearing thresholds (i.e. better hearing), high Tinnitus Handicap Inventory (THI) score, and positive attitude toward therapy.\n\nDespite the fact that there haven't been any recent studies which concluded in its optimal treatment, tinnitus retraining therapy has been applied to treating hyperacusis, misophonia, and phonophobia.\n\nThere is no evidence that TRT or any other treatment can eliminate or decrease tinnitus. Tinnitus is a symptom, not a disease. As such, the optimal treatment strategy should be directed toward eliminating the disease, rather than simply alleviating the symptom. More than half of people with tinnitus have a comorbid psychological injury or illness (e.g., post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, anxiety, obsessive compulsive disorder, stress, dysfunction of the temporomandibular joint, etc.) that can exacerbate the tinnitus.\n\nIt has been proposed that tinnitus is caused by mechanisms that generate abnormal neural activity, specifically one mechanism called discordant damage (dysfunction) of outer and inner hair cells of the cochlea.\n\nThe psychological basis for TRT stems from the fact that the brain exhibits a high level of plasticity. In turn, this allows it to adjust to any sensory signals as long as they do not lead to negative effects. TRT is imputed to work by interfering with the neural activity causing the tinnitus at its source, in order to prevent it from spreading to other nervous systems such as the limbic and autonomic nervous systems.\n\nClients are classified into 5 categories. These categories are numbered 0 to 4, and based on whether or not the patient has tinnitus with hearing loss, tinnitus with no hearing loss, tinnitus with hearing loss and hyperacusis, and tinnitus with hearing loss and hyperacusis for an extended amount of time.\n\nThe first component of TRT, directive counseling, may change the way tinnitus is perceived. The patient is taught the basic knowledge about the auditory system and its function, the mechanism of tinnitus generation and the annoyance associated with tinnitus. The repetition of these points in the follow-up visits helps the patient to perceive the signal as a non-danger.\n\nMeasuring the efficacy of TRT is beset by confounding factors: tinnitus reporting is entirely subjective therefore not reliable; tinnitus or at least subjects' perception of it varies over time and repeated evaluations are not consistent. Researchers have noted that there is a large placebo component to tinnitus management. In many commercial TRT practices, there is a large proportion of dropouts; reported 'success' ratios may not take these subjects into account.\n\nThere are few available studies, but most show that tinnitus naturally declines over time (years) in a large proportion of subjects surveyed, without any treatment. The annoyance of tinnitus also tends to decline over time. In at least some, tinnitus spontaneously disappears.\n\nA Cochrane review found only one sufficiently rigorous study of TRT and noted that while the study suggested benefit in the treatment of tinnitus, the study quality was not good enough to draw firm conclusions. A separate Cochrane review of sound therapy (though they called it masking), an integral part of TRT, found no convincing evidence of the efficacy of sound therapy in the treatment of tinnitus.\n\nA summary in The Lancet concluded that in the only decent study, TRT was more effective than masking; in another study in which TRT was used as a control methodology, TRT showed a small benefit. A study which compared cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) in combination with the counselling part of TRT versus standard care (ENT, audiologist, maskers, hearing aid) found that the specialized care had a positive effect on quality of life as well as specific tinnitus metrics.\n\nTinnitus activities treatment (TAT) is a clinical adaptation of TRT that focuses on four areas: thoughts and emotions, hearing and communication, sleep, and concentration.\n\nProgressive tinnitus management (PTM) is a 5-step structured clinical protocol for management of tinnitus which may include tinnitus retraining therapy. The five steps are:\n\nThe U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) now employs PTM to help patients self-manage their tinnitus.\n\n\nCognitive behavior therapy (CBT), the counselling part of TRT, as a generalized type of psychological and behavioral counselling, has also been used by itself in the management of tinnitus.\n\nIf tinnitus is associated with hearing loss, a tuned hearing aid that amplifies sound in the frequency range of the hearing loss (usually the high frequencies) may effectively mask tinnitus by raising the level of environmental sound, in addition to the benefit of restoring hearing.\n\nWhite noise generators or environmental music may be used to provide a background noise level that is of sufficient amplitude that it wholly or partially 'masks' the tinnitus (tinnitus masker). Composite hearing aids that combine amplification and white noise\ngeneration are also available.\n\nNumerous other non-TRT methods have been suggested for the treatment or management of tinnitus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6387142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6387142", "title": "Unfair Commercial Practices Directive 2005", "text": "Unfair Commercial Practices Directive 2005\n\nThe Unfair Commercial Practices Directive 2005/29/EC regulates unfair business practices in EU law, as part of European consumer law. It requires corresponding laws to be passed that incorporate it into each member state's legal system.\n\nThe Directive is concerned mainly with the \"substantive\" law (meaning in this context the standards of behaviour required of traders). To some extent it leaves to member states the choice of appropriate domestic enforcement procedures and penalties for non-compliance (Articles 11 to 13 of the Directive).\n\nThe recitals state the objective of the Directive to reduce barriers to free trade in the EU while simultaneously ensuring a high level of consumer protection. At issue was the fact that the consumer protection laws are different among the various member states (see Article 1 of the Directive and the recitals to it). The Directive is supposed to reduce these differences while establishing a required minimum level of consumer protection across all member states. This is expected to benefit both business and consumers, as businesses receive a more standardised legal system under which to operate and consumers receive a sufficient and standardised level of protection, regardless of where they choose to make purchases.\n\nThe Directive is designed to achieve what is called \"maximum harmonisation\" of business-to-consumer fair trade. The idea of \"maximum harmonisation\" is that it requires member states of the European Union to apply the standards set out in European legislation and prohibits those states from applying lower or higher standards. In other words, the Directive tells European countries to give consumers no more and no less than the level of protection set out in the Directive. That maximum harmonisation is not yet in force.\n\nThe Directive starts with a general prohibition on unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices (Articles 3(1) and 5(1)) and then goes into progressively greater detail defining what that means.\n\nArticle 3(2) states the Directive is expressly \"without prejudice to contract law and, in particular, to the rules on the validity, formation or effect of a contract\" (see also the 9th recital to the Directive). It does not seek to harmonise unfair competition law regulating \"...commercial practices which, although not harming consumers, may hurt competitors and business customers\" (8th recital to the Directive).\n\nArticle 5(1) says that \"unfair commercial practices\" are prohibited, and under article 5(2)(a) these are practices that are \"contrary to the requirements of professional diligence\" (see further Article 2(h)) and that are likely to materially distort the economic behaviour of the average consumer (Article 5(2)(b)). The effect of commercial practices on particular kinds of consumers, especially those who are unusually vulnerable, can replace the \"average consumer\" test if the practices are directed at those kinds of consumers or will foreseeably affect them (Articles 5(2)(b) and 5(3)). The Directive describes two major categories of unfair commercial practices:- those that are misleading (Articles 5(4)(a), 6 and 7) and those that are aggressive (Articles 5(4)(b), 8 and 9). Annex 1 to the Directive sets out a list of \"commercial practices that are, in all circumstances, considered unfair\" (a black-list of bad behaviour). These are divided into \"misleading commercial practices\" (23 examples) and \"aggressive commercial practices\" (8 examples).\n\nOn a literal reading of the Directive, misleading or aggressive commercial practices that would not affect the average consumer's economic behaviour, but would distort the economic behaviour of particular kinds of consumer, may be prohibited only by the general clause in Articles 5(1) to 5(3), and not by the specific clauses in Articles 6 to 9. This is because the latter provisions refer exclusively to the \"average consumer\" (although Article 9(c) also refers to the \"exploitation of any specific misfortune or circumstance of such gravity as to impair the consumer's judgement, of which the trader is aware...\"). However, it might be fairer to read Articles 5(2)(b) and 5(3) as supplanting the references to the \"average consumer\" in Articles 6 to 9 in appropriate cases. The UK Government's Department of Trade and Industry published a consultation paper in December 2005, which suggested that that was indeed the intention. There is no clear basis in the text for the favoured interpretation, but the UK Government supports its interpretation with reference to the European Commission's Explanatory Memorandum. This could be important because depending on the answer to this question it may be easier or harder to pin down a breach of the Directive.\n\nThe rules referred to in the actual text of the Directive in relation to codes of conduct are quite limited (e.g. Article 6(2)(b), prohibiting non-compliance with codes of conduct in some circumstances, and Article 10). However, the 20th recital states: \"It is appropriate to provide a role for codes of conduct ... In sectors where there are specific mandatory requirements ... these will also provide evidence as to the requirements of professional diligence in that sector. ... consumers' organisations could be informed and involved in the drafting of codes of conduct.\" Subscribers to a code of conduct drafted with the input of and endorsed by a major consumers' organisation could seek to argue during enforcement proceedings that compliance with the code of conduct is therefore evidence that they have not engaged in unfair commercial practices. Those charged with promoting and administering membership of codes of conduct will take note that Article 11(1) in effect contemplates the possibility of class-actions brought by consumer groups against code-owners where the code promotes non-compliance with legal requirements. Taken together, these provisions may be an incentive for those who administer and promote codes of conduct to consult with consumers' groups and take careful legal advice in relation to the drafting of such codes.\n\nChapter 3 envisages a role for businesses in the industry to draft codes of conduct about practices among their competitors.\n\nChapter 4 requires that member states have, under article 11, \"adequate and effective means exist to combat unfair commercial practices\". This includes ensuring that consumer groups have standing to take representative legal action on behalf of the people whose interests they represent, or make complaints to the consumer authorities. Article 11(2) requires that public authorities exist (for instance, the Competition and Markets Authority or the Bundesamt für Verbraucherschutz und Lebensmittelsicherheit). Article 11(3) requires that they should be impartial in fulfilling their role of protecting consumers against unfair business practices.\n\nThe Directive required the member states to pass laws by no later than 12 June 2007 incorporating it into their own internal national law by 12 December 2007. However, until at least 12 June 2013, Member States will continue to be able to apply more protective national rules diverging from European directives insofar as it is necessary and proportionate to do so (Article 3(5)), meaning that maximum harmonisation may not be complete before that date. There will be a major review of the operation of the Directive by 12 June 2011 (Article 18).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47634126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47634126", "title": "Value Delivery Modelling Language", "text": "Value Delivery Modelling Language\n\nValue Delivery Modeling Language (VDML) is a standard modeling language for analysis and design of the operation of an enterprise with particular focus on the creation and exchange of value.\n\nIn 2009, the Object Management Group (OMG) launched a Request for Proposal (RfP) to develop a standard for value modeling. The goal of this RfP is to integrate the different existing value models and give a complete overview of the business logic of an organisation. To reach this goal, the standard has to satisfy nine requirements:\n\nThe VDML standard integrates 7 existing value models:\n\nThe use of VDML diagrams to support business model innovation is discussed in\n\nVDML has been applied to a use case in manufacturing. It demonstrates the use of VDML for modeling and analysis of a proposed change to an\nas-is business system.\n"}
