{"id": "705212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=705212", "title": "Austerity in Israel", "text": "Austerity in Israel\n\nFrom 1949 to 1959, the state of Israel was, to a varying extent, under a regime of austerity (, \"Tzena\"'), during which rationing and similar measures were enforced.\n\nSoon after establishment in 1948, the emerging state of Israel found itself lacking in both food and foreign currency. In just three and a half years, the Jewish population of Israel had doubled, increased by nearly 700,000 immigrants. Consequently, the Israeli government instigated measures to control and oversee distribution of necessary resources to ensure equal and ample rations for all Israeli citizens.\n\nIn addition to the problems with the provision of food, national austerity was also required because the state was lacking in foreign currency reserves. Export revenues covered less than a third of the cost of imports, and less than half of the consequent deficit was covered by the Jewish loan system known as \"Magbiyot\" (, lit. \"Collections\"). Most financing was obtained from foreign banks and gas companies, which, as 1951 drew to an end, refused to expand the available credit. In order to supervise austerity, the prime minister, David Ben-Gurion, ordered the establishment of the Ministry of Rationing and Supply (, \"Misrad HaKitzuv VeHaAspaka\"), headed by Dov Yosef.\n\nAt first this rationing was set for staple foods alone—oil, sugar and margarine, for instance—but it was later expanded to furniture and footwear. Each month, each citizen would get food coupons worth 6 Israeli pounds, and each family was allotted a given amount of foodstuffs. The diet chosen, fashioned after that used in the United Kingdom during World War II, allowed a meager 1,600 calories a day for Israeli citizens, with additional calories for children, the elderly, and pregnant women.\n\nThe enforcement of austerity required the establishment of a bureaucracy of quite some proportions, which nonetheless proved ineffective in preventing the emergence of a black market in which rationed products—often smuggled from the countryside—were sold at higher prices. To counter this, the government established in September 1950 the \"Office for Fighting the Black Market\" (, \"Mate LeMilhama BaShuk HaShahor\"), whose goal it was to combat the forming of such a market. Yet despite the increased supervision, and the specially summoned courts, all such attempts at suppression proved ineffective.\n\nIn 1952 the reparations agreement was signed with Germany, compensating the Jewish state for confiscation of Jewish property during the Holocaust. The resulting influx of foreign capital was a huge boost to the state's struggling economy, and led to the cancellation of most restrictions in 1953. In 1956, the list of rationed goods was narrowed to just fifteen goods, and it shrank to eleven in 1958. Shortly afterwards, it was abolished for all goods except jam, sugar and coffee. In 1959, rationing was abolished altogether.\n\nEconomically, austerity proved a failure, mostly due to the enormous government deficit, covered by bank loans, creating an increase in the amount of money use. Throughout austerity unemployment remained high, and inflation grew as of 1951. Yet austerity did have its advantages – living standards were preserved at tolerable levels, while the resources saved were made available to feed and clothe and shelter the entire population adequately, while at the same time integrating and successfully resettling over 700,000 Jewish refugees from European, Arab, and Muslim lands.\n\n"}
{"id": "18211313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18211313", "title": "Banga Sena", "text": "Banga Sena\n\nThe Banga Sena () is a separatist Hindu organization which advocates formation of a separate homeland for Bengali Hindus in Bangladesh. The group is led by Kalidas Baidya.\nMajor General Jahangir Alam Chowdhury, the Director General of the Bangladesh Rifles (BDR), in a talk with the Director General of the Border Security Force (BSF) Ajay Raj Sharma in 2004 said that the extremist group Banga Sena was carrying out terrorist and secessionist activities against Bangladesh from its bases in the Indian state of West Bengal. Khodeza Begum in an article in the \"Global Politician\" accused India of helping to organize the Banga Sena. In March 2006, a senior official of the home ministry of Bangladesh expressed concern over the anti-Bangladesh activities by the Banga Sena. Regarding this he added that Bangladesh wants a peaceful border with neighboring India and the situation has vastly improved following coordinated border patrolling by the both countries. A Bangladeshi official stated that the organization is a \"threat to the sovereignty of Bangladesh\".\n\nMore than 400 members of the Banga Sena were arrested in India on February 18, 2003 for trying to cross over into Bangladesh from the district of North 24 Parganas in southern West Bengal. According to police sources, activists belonging to the organization began gathering at the Indo-Bangladesh border at Halencha, North 24 Parganas in the jurisdiction of the Bagda police station since morning that day.\n\nIn January 2004, the director general of the Bangladesh Rifles gave a list of the camps of the remaining Shanti Bahni elements in the North-East Indian states of Tripura and Assam and in adjoining Indian provinces to the director general of the Border Security Force. The list documented that the Banga Sena, along with several other groups, carried out communal tension and separatist activities against Bangladesh from West Bengal. Indian Foreign Secretary said that India will cooperate in tackling the Banga Sena and other insurgent groups. On September 2007, the representatives of two NGOs, Diphu Citizen Peace Forum and Karbi Human Rights Watch, in the Karbi Anglong District of Assam said that the Banga Sena was involved in extortion and it could pose a threat to the peace in the region. Regarding the activities of the Banga Sena, the Foreign Secretary of Bangladesh Shamsher Mobin Chowdhury made it clear that his country will not tolerate any statement or move against its territory or sovereignty. The All India Minority Forum, an organization for religious minorities in India, also expressed concern over this organization.\n\n"}
{"id": "26279144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26279144", "title": "Benjamin K. Sovacool", "text": "Benjamin K. Sovacool\n\nBenjamin K. Sovacool is director of the Danish Center for Energy Technology at the Department of Business Technology and Development and a professor of social sciences at Aarhus University. He is also professor of energy policy at the University of Sussex, where he directs both the Center on Innovation and Energy Demand, one of six End Use Energy Demand Centres in the United Kingdom, and the Sussex Energy Group. His research interests include energy policy, environmental issues, and science and technology policy. He is the author or editor of eighteen books and 300 peer-reviewed academic articles and chapters and has written opinion editorials for the \"Wall Street Journal\" and the \"San Francisco Chronicle\". Sovacool is editor-in-chief of \"Energy Research & Social Science\", which explores the interactions between energy systems and society.\n\n\nSovacool is Director of the Center for Energy Technology and professor of business and social sciences at Aarhus University in Denmark. He is also Professor of Energy Policy at the University of Sussex in the United Kingdom. He was formerly associate professor at Vermont Law School and founding director of the Energy Security & Justice Program. This was located within the Institute for Energy and Environment, which aims to \"expand global access to sustainable energy and craft national energy policies that adapt to climate change without worsening socioeconomic inequality\". The program, in cooperation with the MacArthur Foundation, Rockefeller Foundation, Asia Research Institute, and the National University of Singapore, has published a series of case studies examining energy security in Asia. Sovacool lectures on energy security, alternative and renewable energy, environmental economics, and energy policy.\n\nSovacool is a Lead Author to the next Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Sixth Assessment Report (AR6) on \"Mitigation and development pathways in the near-to mid-term\". He also served in 2012 as an Erasmus Mundus Visiting Scholar at Central European University in Hungary. He has often consulted for the Asian Development Bank, United Nations Development Program, and United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific. He was awarded the Dedication to Diversity and Justice Award from the American Bar Association in 2015.\n\nSovacool's main area of interest is energy policy. At the National University of Singapore, he led research projects supported by the MacArthur Foundation and the Rockefeller Foundation about improving energy security for impoverished rural Asian communities.\n\nSovacool has authored numerous academic articles and book chapters and has written opinion editorials for the \"Wall Street Journal\" and the \"San Francisco Chronicle\". According to Google Scholar his scientific publication has (2018) an h-index of 67.\n\nIn 2007, Sovacool co-edited \"\". In 2008, he wrote \"The Dirty Energy Dilemma: What’s Blocking Clean Power in the United States\" which was published by Praeger and won a 2009 Nautilus Book Award.\n\nIn \"Contesting the Future of Nuclear Power\" (2011) Sovacool says, following a detailed analysis, that there is a \"consensus among a broad base of independent, nonpartisan experts that nuclear power plants are a poor choice for producing electricity\", and that \"energy efficiency programs and renewable power technologies are better than nuclear power plants\".\n\nList of books:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19286710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19286710", "title": "Boe Constituency", "text": "Boe Constituency\n\nBoe Constituency is one of the constituencies of Nauru. It returns two members from Boe to the Parliament of Nauru in Yaren.\n"}
{"id": "5221661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5221661", "title": "Bureau of International Security and Nonproliferation", "text": "Bureau of International Security and Nonproliferation\n\nThe Bureau of International Security and Nonproliferation (ISN) is a bureau within the United States Department of State responsible for managing a broad range of nonproliferation and counterproliferation functions. The bureau leads U.S. efforts to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction (nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons) and their delivery systems. \n\nIt was created on September 13, 2005 when the Bureau of Arms Control and the Bureau of Nonproliferation were merged. Stephen G. Rademaker was the first the Acting Assistant Secretary of State for International Security and Nonproliferation. He had been the Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of Arms Control, and in February 2005 he was named the head of the Bureau for Nonproliferation pending the two bureaus' merger. The previous Acting Assistant Secretary was Francis C. Record, and Assistant Secretary John C. Rood, of Arizona, was confirmed by the senate on September 13, 2006.\n\nThe Bureau's role within the Department of State is to spearhead efforts to promote international consensus on WMD proliferation through bilateral and multilateral diplomacy, and to address WMD proliferation threats posed by non-state actors and terrorist groups by improving physical security, using interdiction and sanctions, and actively participating in the Proliferation Security Initiative. \n\nIt also coordinates the implementation of international treaties and arrangements. It seeks to work with international organizations such as the United Nations, the G8, NATO, the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, and the International Atomic Energy Agency to reduce and eliminate threats posed by weapons of mass destruction, and to support foreign partners in their efforts.\n\nDuring its time as an independent Bureau, the Bureau of Arms Control led efforts to negotiate new arms control agreements, such as the May 2002 Moscow Treaty on strategic offensive reductions, as well as ongoing efforts in the Geneva Conference on Disarmament (CD). It also had responsibilities of implementing existing agreements such as the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, START I, the Chemical Weapons Convention, the Moscow Treaty, the Biological Weapons Convention.\n\nIt held the lead for negotiations and policy development of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, the Treaty on Open Skies, arms control elements of the Dayton peace accords, and other European conventional arms control issues. In early 2004, the office responsible for the Confidence and Security-Building Measures in the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe had been moved from the Bureau of Political-Military Affairs to the Bureau of Arms Control.\n\nIn addition to the Assistant Secretary, the bureau is overseen by three Deputy Assistant Secretaries, who supervise twelve unique offices.\n\nThe bureau also includes a Negotiator for Fissile Material, a Special Negotiator for Nonproliferation, a Coordinator for Threat Reduction Programs, and the U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonprolfieration.\n"}
{"id": "4432628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4432628", "title": "Cape Town peace march", "text": "Cape Town peace march\n\nOn 13 September 1989, 30 000 Capetonians from a diverse cross-section of the city marched in support of peace and the end of apartheid. The event, led by Mayor Gordon Oliver, Archbishop Tutu, Rev Frank Chikane, Moulana Farid Esack, Allan Boesak, and other religious leaders, was held in defiance of the State of Emergency which banned political protests and apartheid laws which enforced racial segregation. The march resulted in concessions from the apartheid cabinet headed by FW de Klerk, following years of violent clashes between anti-apartheid protestors and the police, and was the first such event to include elected world government functionaries. It was considered the \"last illegal march\" at the time, and went ahead without major confrontation. The size of the protest, despite the open defiance, and the restrained response from the police signalled the beginning of the transition to democracy.\n\nAn anti-apartheid Defiance Campaign had been announced in the run up to the whites-only general election. With many political organisations banned and leaders in prison or detained without trial, the campaign was led by a broad cross-section of leaders, including religious leaders, community leaders and trade union activists, sometimes operating under the banner of the Mass Democratic Movement. Previous protests were met with force by the police. A protest in the centre of Cape Town 10 days earlier was dispersed by a water cannon dispensing purple dye, prompting the slogan the purple shall govern. \n\nMore than 20 people were killed in the vicinity of Cape Town on the election day of 6 September 1989, and at a memorial service for these deaths, Tutu called for a wider protest march to take place the following week. The march gathered wide support, including from groups not usually active in protest marches, including businesses and white opposition parties.\n\nEarlier in 1989, the State President P.W. Botha had been replaced by F.W. de Klerk as head of the ruling National Party. De Klerk led his party to victory in the whites-only election on 6 September and was due to be inaugurated as State President a week after the march. \n\nThe march polarised support within the government. The security establishment opposed it, but De Klerk decided that the march would not be broken up by force to prevent a violent confrontation and the associated negative publicity. Fearing a \"Velvet Revolution\" of the kind which was occurring in Eastern Europe, De Klerk capitulated to demands from the anti-apartheid movement. This signalled a significant change from the Botha era and lead to concessions that ushered in the transition to democracy.\n\nThe march began near Cape Town's St George's Cathedral and proceeded down Adderley Street, ending at the Grand Parade. The crowd was led by the city's mayor and a group of religious leaders and marshalls from the United Democratic Front. Unlike previous protests, the police were not present to confront the marchers, and the march went peacefully. Outside the Cape Town City Hall, Tutu gave a speech referring to South Africa as a rainbow country.\n\nThe success of the march and the fact that the police refused to enforce the ban against such gatherings under the then State of Emergency led to further marches in many parts of the country, often instigated by religious leaders. Liberal commentator Allister Sparks regards the march as the beginning of the normalisation of South African politics and September 1989 as the culmination of De Klerk's conversion to negotiations.\n\nA few months later, South Africa entered a new political era when De Klerk unbanned the African National Congress and other anti-partheid organisations and freed Nelson Mandela and other prisoners. Formal negotiations to end apartheid began soon afterwards.\n"}
{"id": "1533698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1533698", "title": "Chalking the door", "text": "Chalking the door\n\nChalking the door is a Christian Epiphanytide tradition used in order to bless one's home, as well as a Scottish custom of landlord and tenant law.\n\nEither on Twelfth Night (January 5), the twelfth day of Christmastide and eve of the feast of the Epiphany, or on Epiphany Day (January 6) itself, many Christians (including Anglicans, Lutherans, Methodists, Presbyterians and Roman Catholics, among others) chalk their doors with a pattern such as this, \"20 † C † M † B † 12\", with the numbers referring \"to the calendar year (20 and 12, for instance, for the year 2012); the crosses stand for Christ; and the letters have a two-fold significance: C, M, and B are the initials for the traditional names of the Magi (Caspar, Melchior, and Balthasar), but they are also an abbreviation of the Latin blessing \"Christus mansionem benedicat\", which means, \"May Christ bless this house\".\" In some localities, but not in all, the chalk used to write the Epiphanytide pattern is blessed by a Christian priest or minister on Epiphany Day; Christians then take the chalk home and use it to write the pattern. This Christian custom of chalking the door has a biblical precedent as the Israelites in the Old Testament marked their doors in order to be saved from death; likewise, the Epiphanytide practice serves to protect Christian homes from evil spirits until the next Epiphany Day, at which time the custom is repeated. Families also perform this act because it represents the hospitality of the Holy Family to the Magi (and all Gentiles); it thus serves as a house blessing to invite the presence of God in one's home.\n\nIn Scotland through the mid to late 1800s, chalking the primary door of a tenement was a way of notifying residents that they must move from their residence by a given day.\n\nBy custom, leases and other similar contracts began or ended on the Scottish Term Days, Whitsunday and Martinmas. If a landlord wished to evict tenants in a particular tenement, the law dictated that, at the landlords' request, a burgh officer, in presence of witnesses, would chalk the primary door of the tenement forty days before Whit Sunday. The burgh officer would then record the fact that the chalking had been accomplished and this document was signed by the officer and the witnesses.\n\nThe chalking indicated to tenants that they must vacate the premises by Whitsunday, when the lease expired. Tenants who failed to vacate by that date could then be evicted on six days notice via a so-called \"charge\". \n\n"}
{"id": "7631303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7631303", "title": "Coalition for America's Gateways and Trade Corridors", "text": "Coalition for America's Gateways and Trade Corridors\n\nThe Coalition for America's Gateways and Trade Corridors (CAGTC) is a US interest group for transport.\n\nIt is composed of over forty representative organizations, including motor carriers, railroads, ports, engineering firms, and freight corridors that have come together to improve national freight efficiency. CAGTC was established in 2001 to bring national attention to the need to expand U.S. freight transportation capabilities and to work toward solutions for this national challenge.\n\nCAGTC plays a key role in developing consensus among members of Congress for federal investment policy that supports \"intermodal connectors\", \"trade corridors\" and \"gateway access\", and that provides for increases in the authorization and appropriations levels for freight and goods movement-related projects. The purpose of CAGTC is to raise public recognition and Congressional awareness of this need and to promote funding in federal legislation for trade corridors and gateways.\n\nThe following organizations are CAGTC members:\n\n"}
{"id": "15670786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15670786", "title": "Controversy surrounding the Lviv pogroms of 1941", "text": "Controversy surrounding the Lviv pogroms of 1941\n\nIn the Lviv pogroms of June and July 1941, during World War II, an estimated 4,000–9,000 people were killed within the space of one month in Lviv (also known as \"Lwów\" or\" Lvov\"), many of them Polish Jews. Some confusion has arisen from the conflation of three separate massacres carried out in Lviv at the onset of the Nazi German Operation Barbarossa launched on 22 June 1941.\n\nThe first massacre was the killing, by the Soviet Security forces (NKVD), of an estimated 4,000 political prisoners inside the NKVD prisons in Lviv (some of them Jewish) immediately prior to the Soviet evacuation. The second massacre was an antisemitic pogrom by local militants, encouraged by the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN), in which 4,000 Jews were killed in the streets immediately before and after the takeover of Lviv by German forces. The third massacre, which was committed by the newly-arrived SS \"Einsatzgruppe C\", specifically targeted Jews, under the guise of retaliation for the killings carried out by the NKVD: 2,500 to 3,000 Jews were herded into a stadium and then taken by lorries to a remote execution site at Janowska. The antisemitic killings culminated before the end of July in the so-called \"Petlura Days\" massacre of more than 2,000 more Jews by Ukrainian nationalists, with the approval of the Nazi administration.\n\nControversy exists regarding the exact dates in which these atrocities took place, the numbers affected, and the sources of information. The confusion is amplified by the political agenda of parties involved, including national viewpoints in a variety of sources as to the alleged involvement in the Lviv civilian massacres by prominent political and historic figures and groups in the massacre, notably Theodor Oberländer, Roman Shukhevych and the Nachtigall Battalion.\n\nPrior to 1939, the current Western Ukrainian city of Lviv, or , was located in the south-eastern part of the Second Polish Republic. It was an urban enclave with the Polish-speaking majority surrounded by a predominantly Ukrainian and Rusyn rural population. Elements of ethnic violence were already present in the region for at least a decade prior to the Soviet invasion of Poland. On 12 July 1930, activists of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN) helped by UVO began province-wide sabotage operations, during which government buildings were attacked, Polish estates burned, roads, rail lines and telephone connections were destroyed. The OUN used terrorism and sabotage in order to force the Polish government into actions that would cause the more moderate Ukrainian politicians ready to negotiate with the Polish state to lose support. OUN directed its violence not only against the Poles, but also against Jews and other Ukrainians who wished for a peaceful resolution to the Polish – Ukrainian conflict.<ref name=\"Hann/Magocsi\">Galicia By C. M. Hann, Paul R. Magocsi, page 148</ref>\n\nThere were 110,000 Jews living in Lviv prior to World War II. The Polish population of the city numbered 131,000 and the Ukrainian population numbered 13,000 according to local source associated with OUN. The Polish census of 1931 () gives different numbers. According to the census, among the 312,231 citizens of Lwów the Poles numbered 198,212 (63.5%) of the total, with Jews numbering 75,316 (24.1% both Yiddish and Hebrew); the Ukrainians numbered 24,245 and the Rusyns 10,892 (combined at 11.3%).\n\nIn general terms, over 3 million Jews lived in the Polish Republic before World War II. An estimated 20 percent of world Jewry belonged in Poland (in 1887, it was an estimated at 30%), many of them in the former Austrian crown-land of Galicia after the military partitions of Poland in 1772–1795. Eastern Galicia is where the Hasidic movement was founded, Yiddish literature flowered, and a wealth of Jewish historic thought, writers, artists and scientists had their birth.\n\nOn 17 September 1939, the Soviet Union invaded eastern Poland as previously agreed to in the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact with Nazi Germany and took over 52.1% of Polish territory. Eastern Galicia was annexed and incorporated into Soviet Ukraine in the atmosphere of terror. Under the new Soviet administration, of the 7,000 Polish schools in 1939, only 984 remained in 1940. The number of Ukrainian schools in the region soon after annexation grew from 371 to 5,536 and Jewish schools from 23 to 103. All that changed was the language of instruction, with the actual net loss of about 1,000 schools in short order. Already since the rebirth of Poland the Jewish population of Lwów was involved primarily in trade and professions.\n\nImmediately after World War II, the Soviet Union began examining the German mass murder of civilians perpetrated in the summer of 1941 specifically in the \"Distrikt Galizien\" and in \"Reichskommissariat Ukraine\" because both regions remained part of the Soviet Ukraine after Europe's postwar reorganization. The Soviets formed a special commission to examine the crimes (only the German crimes) and to name the culprits. The Extraordinary State Commission published its findings in Kyiv in 1945 and delivered them to Nuremberg.\n\nAccording to the report by \"Extraordinary State Commission on Crimes Committed by the Germans in the Territory of the Lvov Region\", even before the German seizure of Lviv on 30 July 1941, the Gestapo detachments were preparing lists of the most prominent representatives of the intelligentsia who were to be annihilated. The mass arrests and executions began immediately after the takeover of Lviv. The Soviet Chief Prosecutor Roman Rudenko stated that the murder of Soviet citizens was not done by separate \"bandit groups\" of German officers and soldiers, but \"according to organized plans\" by the German army, the police and the SS.\n\nMeanwhile, the German SD documents introduced by the prosecution in the principal trial at Nuremberg and later at the American trial of \"SS-Gruppenführer\" Otto Ohlendorf (Nuremberg Trial No. 9) show that the civilian population of the city participated in the abuses in the presence of \"Sicherheitsdienst\"; for instance, an SD report informed that: \"the population rounded up some 1,000 Jews and drove them to the prison that had been occupied by the Wehrmacht ... The Lvov prisons were full with the corpses of murdered Ukrainians ... between 3,000 and 4,000. Reliable information also indicates – stated the report – that some 20,000 Ukrainians, of whom at least 80 percent belong to the intelligentsia, were deported to inner Russia. Similar conditions were observed in the neighboring towns, e.g., Dobromil, Sambor, and vicinity ... As reprisal for these atrocities 7,000 Jews were picked up and shot\" (dated 31 July 1941).\n\nIn 1959 the East German professor Albert Norden in his sensational \"Braunbuch\" exposé (translated into 10 languages) alleged that the killings in Lviv perpetrated in part by members of the Ukrainian Nachtigall Battalion, remain linked to an active minister in the West German government, Theodor Oberländer. A committee was formed in East Berlin to look into his allegations concerning the possible participation of Oberländer, a former German officer attached to the Battalion, in the atrocities in Lviv. According to Українська правда, of the 19 witnesses who testified against him, only three had ever been to Lviv where the atrocities were to have taken place, and all three had been there only in transit. Nevertheless the East German court found him guilty and sentenced Oberländer in absentia to life imprisonment. The London AJR paper reported that he was sentenced to death should he ever step on East German territory.\nAnother court investigation was launched in West Germany. Among the forthcoming new documents were statements by the former members of the Nachtigall Battalion from the Soviet Union, translated and forwarded in April 1960 to Ludwigsburg. The indictment stated that the Nachtigall Battalion killed Jews and Poles in Lviv, Zolochiv, Sataniv, Yuzvyn (Yuzvin, now Nekrasovo), Mykhalpol (spelled Mihalpol, also Mihampol) and on the night of 3–4 July they shot hundreds of Polish intellectuals. The West German courts examined the documents. According to Українська правда, the examiners came to the conclusion that most of the members of the Nachtigall Battalion knew about the terrible killings done by the NKVD, and that among the victims were members of the families of a number of the soldiers. The NKVD had murdered over 5,000 prisoners in jails before the German occupation. Shukhevych's younger brother was one of those killed. Some 232 witnesses testified and, according to Українська правда, Oberländer was cleared of any wrongdoing along with the others.\n\nAt the same time Soviet sources, in order to cover up their participation in the murder of thousands of Ukrainian and Polish civilians in Lviv, also spread a rumor that Oberlander had ordered the murder of Stepan Bandera, which was disproved when Bandera's Soviet assassin, Bohdan Stashynsky, defected to the West and confessed.\n\nIn his book \"The Wehrmacht War Crimes Bureau, 1939-1945\" (\"Die Wehrmacht-Untersuchungsstelle\"), the Cuban-American lawyer Alfred-Maurice de Zayas, known for defending the rights of German expellees from Eastern Europe, wrote about the German discovery of the prison massacres in the following way.\nAccording to de Zayas, on 7 July 1941 the Ukrainian Red Cross delivered an appeal to the German city commander meant for the Swiss, Swedish, and Dutch Red Cross societies, urging them to take measures to protect the lives of people who were endangered so that they may still be saved. The appeal did not specify who the endangered people were.\n\nIn his book, Zayas attempted to refute the position of Wiesenthal and Safer by asserting that the anti-Jewish pogroms by civilians \"were of comparatively small scale.\" He wrote that the pogroms were committed only in retaliation for the massacres of Ukrainians and Poles \"by the Jewish-dominated NKVD\" according to him. Zayas alleged that these massacres were carried out by civilians against the will of Nazi administration which came to the rescue of Jews from the local civilian population. He wrote that \"the German military authorities had issued orders to prevent violence against the Jewish population ... He quoted General Egbert Picker who said: \"the Ukrainian population immediately started to drag the Jews out of their homes and to abuse them in the streets ... The provisional commander of Lvov ... succeeded in stopping [these excesses].\" Zayas quoted also General Egbert Picker who was told by Ludwig Kübler that \"he had ordered such acts of violence by the civilian population against Jewish persons to be immediately stopped\". However, almost all claims made by de Zayas with regard to the Nazi pro-Jewish stance are contradicted directly by the so-called Katzmann Report written by \"SS-Gruppenführer\" Fritz Katzmann, one of the most prolific mass murderers in the SS responsible for the liquidation of the Lwów Ghetto. Katzmann was the Higher SS and Police Leader of \"Distrikt Galizien\" since August 1941 and conducted numerous massacres and most deportations himself.\n\nAccording to de Zayas, in the fall of 1959, the Soviet Ukrainian press unfairly accused German Nazis, including the Adenauer cabinet minister Theodor Oberländer, of participating in these murders in Lviv. Oberländer was an advising officer of the Nachtigall Battalion.\n\nOn 5 September 1959, the \"Radianska Ukraina\" newspaper wrote: \"Eighteen years ago the fascists committed a horrendous crime in Lviv on the night of 29–30 June 1941. On the basis of prepared lists, the Hitlerites arrested hundreds of Communists, Communist youth, and non-party members and murdered them in brutal fashion in the courtyard of the Samarstinov Prison.\" These accusations were picked up by the Western press and eventually led to Oberländer's resignation. An investigation by the district attorney's office in Bonn completely cleared Oberländer of these allegations.\n\nAccording to de Zayas, an international commission was set up at The Hague in the Netherlands to carry out independent investigations. The members were four former anti-Hitler activists, Norwegian lawyer Hans Cappelen, former Danish foreign minister and president of the Danish parliament Ole Bjørn Kraft, Dutch socialist Karel van Staal, Belgian law professor Flor Peeters, and Swiss jurist and member of parliament Kurt Scoch. Following its interrogation of a number of Ukrainian witnesses between November 1959 and March 1960, the commission concluded:\"After four months of inquiries and the evaluation of 232 statements by witnesses from all circles involved, it can be established that the accusations against the Battalion Nachtigall and against the then Lieutenant and currently Federal Minister Oberländer have no foundation in fact.\"\n\nVeterans of the group testified that the Nachtigall Battalion was attached to the Wehrmacht and not to any SS formation and that during the 4 days in which the pogroms are claimed to have taken place (30 June to 3 July), they were relaxing and waiting for next the military operation under Wehrmacht command.\n\nIn his book \"Poland's Holocaust\", Polish-American sociologist and World War II historian Tadeusz Piotrowski provided eyewitness accounts of the Lviv massacres, and quoted Professor Czesław Łuczak's claim that Nachtigall regiment took part in the murder of Polish and Jewish populace of Lwów before moving on to Złoczów, Tarnopol, Satanów, Proskurov and Vinnitsa. Local eyewitnesses: A. Rzepicki and saw Ukrainian soldiers, believed to come from Nachtigall, rounding up Jews (covered in blood) and making them carry the bodies of Ukrainians. Piotrowski quoted the 1989 study by Professor who wrote the following. \n\nOn May 2, 1966, the Hamburg Procurator von Belov wrote: \"Findings inside and outside the country produced the following conclusions. ... The Ukrainian militia and the 'Ukrainian Liberation Army' took part in these outrages which also involved arbitrary killings.\" According to Piotrowski, both Albert Norden and Werner Brockdorff concur that between 17 July 1941 Nachtigall and OUN-B under Mykola Lebed killed 3,000 Jews and Poles in the city: \"Anyone who fell into their hands during these hours, lost his life.\"\n\nRussian historian Sergei Chuyev in his book on the Ukrainian Legion SS Galicia based on Russian archival sources wrote about the German takeover of Lviv in the following way.\n\nChuyev also wrote about the atrocities by quoting others:\n\nChuyev quoted the full text of the \"Act of the Restoration of the Ukrainian State\" (\"Акт о восстановлении украинского государства\"), which was published in Lviv on 30 June 1941, which includes the following proclamation: \"3. The Restored Ukrainian State will closely collaborate with the Nazi Reich, which is creating a New Order in Europe and the World, under the leadership of Adolf Hitler, and helps the Ukrainian people liberate themselves from the Moscow occupation.\"\n\nHolocaust scholars attribute the killing of Jews to Ukrainians under the direction of the Ukrainian nationalists.\nThe \"Encyclopedia of the Holocaust\" states: \"In June–July 1941 it is estimated that over 4,000 Jews were murdered in pogroms in Lvov and other cities in Western Ukraine. The Nachtigall Battalion, under the command of Shukhevych, took part in these pogroms. The Simon Wiesenthal Center also states that the Nachtigall Battalion participated along with the Germans in pogroms where over 4,000 Jews were murdered in Lviv in July, 1941. Professor Himka from the University of Alberta states that evidence vindicates Nachtigall but that it also shows other OUN members engaged in the murder of Jews at that time.\n\nOn 6 December 2007, the then Chairman of the Yad Vashem in Jerusalem, Tommy Lapid, stated in an interview with the radio network Deutsche Welle that the Yad Vashem has a dossier from both German and Soviet sources showing that the Nachtigall Battalion took part in the pogroms in Lviv in the summer of 1941. \"Until now, the Ukrainian side has so far not asked us for these documents\", said Lapid and invited both Ukrainian historians and President Yushchenko to study them together. He added that part of these documents has already been used in the writing of the Encyclopedia of the Holocaust in 1990.\n\nIn November 2007 the then President Viktor Yushchenko's visited Yad Vashem in Jerusalem. Government minister Tommy Lapid approached him voicing his disapproval of awarding Roman Shukhevych with Ukraine's highest title of \"Hero of Ukraine,\" stating that Shukhevych had taken part in the Lviv pogroms as commander of the Nachtigall Battalion. Yushchenko replied: \"No archives today can confirm any action of a punitive nature, in which soldiers of the UPA and other similar organizations took part\", and stated that he was confident about it. At a foreign policy forum in Jerusalem, Yushchenko defended the award of Hero of Ukraine given posthumously to Roman Shukhevych for his role in fighting for Ukraine's independence. Addressing the charges from Holocaust researchers that Nachtigall took part in anti-Jewish atrocities in Lviv in June–July 1941, Yushchenko replied: \"I have materials, documents, saying that in the course of grander context of Ukrainian rebellion, Shukhevych signed a petition that prohibited massive persecutions (of civilians).\" During Yushchenko 's visit to Israel, he and the Israeli President Shimon Peres agreed to form a joint Israeli-Ukrainian working group to study their common history, including Shukhevych's role in it.\n\nOn 12 December 2007, Yushchenko met with the Chairman of the Yad Vashem Directorate, Avner Shalev, and announced formal contacts to develop a number of initiatives for the study of relationships between the Ukrainian and Jewish peoples particularly during the tragic years of World War II.\n\nCommenting on the Israeli materials that he has not seen yet, Ukrainian historian Volodymyr Serhiychuk expressed his doubts in the seriousness of the documents mentioned by Lapid. \"If there were such documents in Israel, particularly the ones passed on to them from the Soviet Union, they would have been published long ago, because the USSR was interested in compromising Shukhevych. If the materials were found in German archives they would also be known\". Vladyslav Hrynevych (Гриневич) of the Institute of political and ethnopolitical research in the National Academy of Science in Ukraine, said: \"All archives regarding this problem, which are in Israel, were copied form European sources, particularly from the USSR, and as a result we also have these documents\". The 2007 article, published by Lenta.ru informed that Israeli invited Ukrainian historians to research Yad Vashem documents about Roman Shukhevych, and that Josef Lapid is awaiting the official invitation from the Ukrainian side. Stanislav Kulchytskyi, the deputy of the director of scientific research of the NASU Institute of history, said that there had been no invitation from the Israeli side to familiarize with their documents yet.\n\nUkrainian historian Vladyslav Hrynevych stated that he cannot say anything definite concerning the documents that he has not seen yet, but hypothesised that there is a version regarding the shooting of the Lviv professors, of whom a number were Jewish; however Hrynevych has so far seen no evidence that this was committed by the Nachtigall Battalion. \"We do not know if this was spontaneous single activity, or a planned act, and whether it was done according to the command of Roman Shukhevych. The latter is very doubtful. If such facts were true they would have been immediately documented by the Germans, who were interested in the pogroms and even provoked them\".\n\nImmediately after Yushchenko's visit to Israel, the Head of the Kyiv Chapter of the Ukrainian Memorial Society issued an open letter to the Ukrainian President to give the Security Services of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory the documents at Yad Vashem regarding Roman Shukhevych \"to be reviewed and examined for falsification by Ukrainian criminalists so that insinuations and manipulations of community memory can be halted regarding this question\".\n\nOn 2 March 2008, Yad Vashem informed the Ukrainian delegation that it held no dossier on Shukhevich, and was not in possession of any documents that could incriminate him in the Lviv massacres. Moreover, Yad Vashem stated that Tommy Lapid, former justice minister and one of Yad Vashem's trustees who originally made the allegation, was not am employee of the museum, and was not authorized to make such claims on museum's behalf.\n\nIn February 2008, the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) archive representative Oleksander Ishchuk showed declassified documents, which provided an objective basis to the claim that the actual leadership of Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists) (OUN) sought to avoid participating in violence against the civil population of Lviv between June 22 and September 1941, and provided no official orders to conduct pogroms.\n\nIn February 2006, the Ukrainian Memorial Society published on its website transcriptions and photo reproductions of original secret documents from the KGB files which pertained to the activities of the Ukrainian Nachtigall Battalion and various allegations made against it.\n\nAccording to Ishchuk, the declassified documents of SBU indicate that on 4–7 July 1941, representatives of Gestapo, who arrived in Lviv, turned to the Ukrainian population inciting them to carry out an anti-Jewish pogrom. \"The OUN leadership, having got to know about that, informed its members that it was a German provocation in order to compromise Ukrainians with massacres\", the document reads. Television commentary from 2008 by the Ukrainian channel 5 of the release of the latest documents dealing with the Lviv civilian massacre is available online.\n\nOn April 5, 2008, the Ukrainian newspaper \"Den'\" («День») published an article by the then director of the Archives of the Security Service of Ukraine, Volodymyr Viatrovych titled \"\"The end of the Legend about Nachtigall\". Viatrovych wrote that on February 28, 2008 a government delegation from Ukraine led by the head of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory I. Yukhnovsky and by Viatrovych himself visited Yad Vashem to closer acquaint themselves with the Shukhevych archive. According to Viatrovych, two documents were made available by Dr. Haim Gertner, Director of Archives. One 7 pages and another 18 pages long. The first was a copy of the interrogation minutes of Luka Pavlyshyn who, according to Viatrovych, did not serve in the Nachtigall Battalion, by the KGB. According to Viatrovych, this document was well known as the basis for what he referred to as the \"propaganda brochure published in 1960 to incriminate Oberlander\"\". The second was the German translation of a deposition by Hryhory Melnyk, who according to Viatrovych, \"had been trained by the KGB on 13 November 1959 and was given instructions to lie in court during the proceedings against Oberlander\".\n\nViatrovych, held a press conference on 4 March 2008 at which he presented these documents along with his criticism of what he called \"\"the Lapid announcement and the manner in which it was carried out by Joseph Lapid to discredit Roman Shukhevych\". In Viatrovych's opinion, \"all that was uncovered were distorted facts and false testimony which go against judicial principles and logic.\"\"<ref name=\"homin.ca/news\">Viatrovych (2008), ВОЛОДИМИР В'ЯТРОВИЧ. КІНЕЦЬ «ЛЕҐЕНДИ» ПРО «NACHTIGALL» The end of \"Legend\" about Nachtigall.</ref> Viatrovych also stated that the man, who had previously approached president Yushchenko - the former chairman of the Yad Vashem complex (Tommy Lapid) - was not an employee of the Yad Vashem archive.\n\nIn response, on 19 March 2008, Yad Vashem issued an official press release titled \"\"Response to Misinformation Regarding Meeting Held Between Ukrainian Vice Prime Minister's Delegation and Yad Vashem in Jerusalem Last Month\", which states that Avner Shalev, who replaced Joseph Lapid upon his illness as the Chairman of Yad Vashem, sent a letter to Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ivan Vasyunik, \"following misinformation from their meeting earlier this month that has been reported in Ukraine\"\". According to Avner Shalev, this response expressed \"disappointment with a most unfavorable and objectionable development that has been reported to us from Kiev\", namely, as Avner Shalev stated, to a press conference \"\"during which glaring and offensive inaccuracies regarding our institution and its supposed positions were belligerently expressed\". He continued: \"I object strenuously both to the misleading statements ascribed to Yad Vashem, as well as to the circumstances in which a guest whom we had welcomed cordially and genuinely now seeks, without any prior notice, to publicly misrepresent us. Academic research, conducted and published around the world, points to the support of, and intensive and widespread collaboration with, the German Nazi occupation of Poland and Ukraine, by Nachtigal and its commander at the time, Roman Shukeyvich.\"\".\n\nRegarding Viatrovych's statement that they had been told by Chaim Gertner that \"no such a separate archive existed and that the documents were scattered throughout the complex\", Gertner responded: \"Furthermore, I most explicitly stated that Yad Vashem's Archives is not organized according to personal files, but rather organizes its close to 75 million pages of documentation according to archival collections, based on provenance. Among these documents is material from various sources related to Nachtigal's activities during World War II. During our meeting, my colleagues and I expressed our willingness to collate the material and to provide you with copies. We saw this meeting as the beginning of our dialogue, as originally envisioned by President Yuschenko, and not as the end.\"\n"}
{"id": "326342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326342", "title": "Council of Ministers", "text": "Council of Ministers\n\n\"Council of Ministers\" is the name given to the supreme executive organ in some governments. The term is usually equivalent to the word \"cabinet\". Councils of Ministers are usually composed of those ministers\nwho are responsible for a ministry, and are usually led by the President of the Council of Ministers, a term that is usually translated as \"Prime Minister\".\n\nCouncil of state is a similar term that also most often refer to a Cabinet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43242796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43242796", "title": "Dan Walker (broadcaster)", "text": "Dan Walker (broadcaster)\n\nDaniel Meirion Walker (born 19 March 1977) is an English journalist and television presenter, best known for presenting BBC television programmes including \"Football Focus\" (2009–present) and \"BBC Breakfast\" (2016–present).\n\nHe also presents shows on BBC Radio 5 Live and has presented sport on the BBC News Channel, as well as regularly reporting for \"Final Score\" and \"Match of the Day\".\n\nWalker was born in Crawley, Sussex, the son of the minister of a local church and a Welsh mother. He lived in Crawley until the age of 18, where he attended Ifield Primary School, Three Bridges Middle School, and Hazelwick Secondary School. He supports Crawley Town F.C. He earned a BA (Hons) degree in History in 1998 and an MA degree in Journalism Studies in 1999 at the University of Sheffield.\n\nWalker's professional broadcasting career started with work experience at Sheffield's Hallam FM. He gained the work experience after winning a competition for young sports commentators. In 1999, Walker moved to a full-time career with a 4-year stint as a sports presenter and commentator for Manchester's Key 103 radio. In his time at the station he presented the regular midweek sports show (often broadcasting from UEFA Champions League matches at Manchester United's Old Trafford ground) and also appeared as the resident sports correspondent for Mike Toolan's breakfast show.\n\nWalker moved into television with a six-month spell at Granada Television in Manchester, appearing as a commentator on the \"Football League Review\" show before joining BBC regional news programme North West Tonight. During this time, he was nominated for a number of awards and won the Royal Television Society Sports Award in 2005 for Regional Sports Presenter of the Year. He was unable to attend the ceremony because he was covering the Champions League final in Istanbul.\n\nIn 2006, Walker started working in London and in 2008 started presenting and reporting at Wimbledon, The Open, Aintree, Ascot and The Derby at Epsom as well as the 6 Nations.\n\nIn August 2009, Walker took over from Manish Bhasin as the presenter of Football Focus. Walker also presents the web-based Friday preview \"Friday Focus\" and writes a blog on the BBC website where he discusses the show and football in general.\n\nWalker was part of the BBC Sport team covering the 2010 FIFA World Cup. He spent the tournament travelling from Cape Town at the start of the tournament to Johannesburg for the final in a double-decker bus, filming packages to be shown both as part of the TV coverage and online, and providing commentary and news via the BBC's online channels and Twitter. The bus visited a diverse selection of places along its 6,000 km journey – from townships and social projects to sites of cultural and historic significance, with the intention being to provide UK viewers with a flavour of the host nation both inside and out of the stadia.\n\nOn 26 November 2011, Gary Speed appeared as a guest on \"Football Focus\" with Walker. The two men spent a total of about four hours with each other on the day. Walker said of Speed: \"I always found him to be kind, funny, intelligent and insightful. I found him to be a top bloke and really enjoyed his company.\" The following morning on Sunday 27 November 2011, Walker received the news that Speed had died at his house in Cheshire. Walker said that he was \"stunned\" by Speed's death and that he was \"incredibly saddened\". He had known Speed for quite a long time and had played football with him in a charity match two months earlier.\n\nIn March 2012, Walker said that he was \"staggered by the depth of feeling and shock\" on the Sunday when Speed's death was announced.\n\nIn addition to Walker's TV work, he presented \"Afternoon Edition\" every Monday-Thursday on BBC Radio 5 Live until 2016, and has previously hosted shows on the station's evening sports output.\n\nIn 2015 and 2018, Walker guest presented episodes of \"The One Show\".\n\nIn 2016, Walker replaced Bill Turnbull as presenter of \"BBC Breakfast\". His first show aired on 29 February and he currently co-presents the programme from Monday to Wednesday with Louise Minchin. Dan Walker presented the 'Clash of the Titans' segment of the \"Sport Relief\" telethon. Along with that, Walker also reported for the 2016 Olympics.\n\nWalker is an active patron of several charities including the Sheffield Children's Hospital charity, alongside Jessica Ennis-Hill, Michael Vaughan and Lee Westwood. He holds a golf day for the charity every year, laid the first brick on the new hospital wing in 2015 and, in 2016, officially opened the £2.3 million MRI scanner.\n\nWalker has been married to Sarah Walker since 2001, and they have three children. The family reside in Sheffield, South Yorkshire.\n\nWalker became a Christian at the age of 12. He made a decision not to work on a Sunday once he started employment and has maintained that throughout his career. He belongs to the Evangelical branch of Christianity.\n\n"}
{"id": "18406327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18406327", "title": "Estonian Border Guard", "text": "Estonian Border Guard\n\nThe Estonian Border Guard () was the national security agency responsible for the border security of Estonia. It was subordinate to the Ministry of the Interior. The Border Guard also assisted with Search and Rescue missions. In 2010, the organization was superseded by the Police and Border Guard Board.\n\nOn November 14, 1918, admiral Johan Pitka organized a meeting to discuss the guarding of borders of the freshly established Republic of Estonia. On November 18, 1918, the Border Guard government () was established, with captain Leopold Tõnson leading it. Until 1 January 1919, the agency was subordinate to the Estonian Defence League Council of Elders (), but was then subordinated to the Ministry of Finance. Since 1 February 1919 until the end of the Estonian War of Independence the borders were guarded by the military. Since 15 February 1919 until May 1921 the crossing of borders was checked by the Republic's Border Control Government (). On 30 May 1922, the border guard agency was subordinated to the Ministry of the Interior. Following the recommendation of Minister of the Interior, Kaarel Eenpalu, the Border Guard Government () (not to be confused with the previous Border Guard government) was established on 20 September 1922. Lieutenant colonel Ants Kurvits was appointed to lead the organization on 1 November 1922, which is also considered the official formation date of the Estonian Border Guard. Lieutenant colonel Arved Engmaa became his deputy.\n\nOn 1 December 1922, the Estonian government approved the structure of the agency, consisting of: a headquarters, departments, districts, and cordons. The headquarters started work in January 1923, at the White hall of the Toompea Castle. Positions were manned with reserve officers from the military and conscripts serving under a one year contract. By May 20, 1923, all control over the border was transferred from the Defence Forces to the border guard. There were eight district stations: Tallinn, Läänemaa, Pärnu, Valga, Petseri, Tartu, Peipsi and Narva. On 1 December 1923, Valga station was joined with Petseri, and on 1 July, Tartu station was joined with Peipsi, and Pärnu was joined with Läänemaa into Lääne station.\n\nOn 16 February 1923, a corporation for officers was established. On 16 June 1927, a similar corporation was established for the conscripts. Until the mid 30's, the legal ground for the activities of the border guard was based on an old law, established under the Russian Empire. On 5 June 1936, a new Border Guard Act was entered into force. Despite legal agreements with the Soviet Union, a tragic incident occurred on 8 February 1938, when Soviet border guards entered Estonian territory and killed two Estonian border guards and one civilian. On the 10th anniversary of the Border Guard, the agency received its flag. In 1940, the agency was partially disbanded by the occupying Soviet Union forces. The eastern border structures were demolished. By then there were roughly 1100 border guards. Large number of Estonian Border Guard officers were repressed and sent to Gulags.\n\nThe restoration of Estonian Border Guard began with the formation of the Estonian Home Defence (), a volunteer organization, created in response to the attack on Toompea by the Intermovement on 15 May 1990. The guarding of borders was organized with volunteers. The situation with borders was dire - the border was unmarked, there was no communication equipment nor transport, not to mention work and living spaces. Furthermore, Soviet troops were still residing in Estonia.\n\nOn 20 September 1990, the Minister of State Raivo Vare formed a commission, which was tasked with establishing control over Estonian borders. On October 1, training of future border guards began. On 15 October, an economic border defence service was established inside the Home Defence organization. An act regarding the economic border of Estonia was passed on 22 October and checkpoints began work three days later.\n\nThe restoration date of the Estonian Border Guard is considered to be November 1, 1990, when the government approved 27 permanent checkpoints. On 15 September, Remniku Training Center began operating in Ida-Virumaa, with Johan Saar appointed to head it. The Estonian National Border Guard Board () was formed on April 8, 1991. During that period, the situation on the southern border was tense because Riga's OMON continuously assaulted Estonian checkpoints. On 15 November, border control was established on highway checkpoints, railway crossings, trains, harbours and airports. On 28 February 1992, the institution was reformed into the Estonian Border Guard (), under the control of the Ministry of the Interior. On March 9, the Border Guard College began work. On 1 July 1992, a visa regime was established on the border. On November 1, 1992, the organization received its former flag.\n\nOn November 16, 1992, the Finnish Border Guard donated the first three ships (PVL-100, PVL-101, PVL-102) to the naval department. In 1993, the National Border Guard Squadron was established, which began operating with two L-410 airplanes donated by Germany. These were later supplemented with four Mil Mi-8 helicopters. In June 1993, Tarmo Kõuts became the head of the organization and the corporation for officers was re-established. In 2000, colonel Harry Hein became the next head of the organization. During that time, employment of conscripts for border control duties was seized and the organization transitioned to a fully professional staff.\n\nAfter Estonia joined the EU and NATO, the border guard went through a reform, establishing the Schengen Area in Estonia. In 2005, lieutenant colonel Roland Peets became the head of the organization. Estonia officially joined the Schengen Area on 21 December 2007. On January 1, 2010, the Estonian Border Guard was joined with the Estonian Police to form a new unified organization called the Police and Border Guard Board. The organizations duties were taken over by the Border Guard Board subdivision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59148948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59148948", "title": "Fascist Defence Force", "text": "Fascist Defence Force\n\nThe Fascist Defence Force (FDF) was the paramilitary section of the British Union of Fascists (BUF).\n\nIt was established in August 1933 by Oswald Mosley, after the BUF acquired its headquarters, the \"Black House\" (formerly \"The Whitelands Teacher Training College\") in King's Road, Chelsea. The Fascist Defence Force comprised three hundred men; they wore black shirts and black trousers (their shirts, modelled on Mosley's fencing jacket, were akin to polo neck sweaters) as well as six badges and stripes to denote rank. They also wore a red armband with the BUF symbol of a flash of lightning in a circle, representing \"action within unity\".\n\nAn elite unit within the Fascist Defence Force, the I Squad, functioned as Mosley's personal bodyguards; they also wore black fencing jackets, but with black leather breeches and boots.\n\nThe Force maintained thirty motor vehicles, including five rapid transportation vans specially equipped with wire mesh windows and plating at the sides for protection against missiles, each of which had a seating capacity of 20 persons.\n\nThe FDF was commanded by Eric Piercy, a Special Constabulary Inspector and ex-insurance agent; his second-in-command was Ian Dundas, a former Royal Navy officer.\n"}
{"id": "49169285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49169285", "title": "Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014", "text": "Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014\n\nThe Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 (Pub.L. 113-283, S. 2521; commonly referred to as FISMA Reform) was signed into federal law by President Barack Obama on December 18, 2014. Passed as a response to the increasing amount of cyber attacks on the federal government, it amended existing laws to enable the federal government to better respond to cyber attacks on departments and agencies.\n\nAn earlier version of the legislation was proposed by House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa and co-sponsored by the Committee's Ranking Member Elijah Cummins as H.R.1163 Federal Information Security Amendments Act of 2013. The bill was passed the U.S. House of Representatives on a vote of 416-0.\n\nThe final version of the legislation was introduced to the United States Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs by Thomas Carper (D–DE) on June 24, 2014 and passed December 8, 2014 in the Senate and December 10, 2014 in the House.\n\n"}
{"id": "31897069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31897069", "title": "Federal Ministries of Nigeria", "text": "Federal Ministries of Nigeria\n\nThe Federal Ministries of Nigeria are civil service departments that are responsible for delivering various types of government service. Each ministry is headed by a Permanent Secretary who reports to a Minister in the Federal Cabinet. \nSome government functions are provided by \"commissions\" or parastatals (government-owned corporations) that may be independent or associated with a ministry.\n\nAt times, ministries are amalgamated and at other times they are split. Thus Halima Tayo Alao was appointed Minister of Environment and Housing on 26 July 2007 by President Umaru Yar'Adua.\nAfter a cabinet reshuffle, in December 2008 Nduese Essien was appointed Minister of Environment and Hassan Muhammed Lawal was appointed Minister of Works and Housing.\nOn 6 April 2010, Mohammed Daggash was appointed Minister of Works and Nduese Essien was appointed Minister of Lands, Housing & Urban Development.\nThe table below lists current or past ministries.\n\n"}
{"id": "9718219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9718219", "title": "First Hellenic Republic", "text": "First Hellenic Republic\n\nThe First Hellenic Republic () is a historiographical term for the provisional Greek state during the Greek War of Independence against the Ottoman Empire. It is used to emphasize the constitutional and democratic nature of the revolutionary regime prior to the establishment of the independent Kingdom of Greece, and associate this period of Greek history with the later Second and Third Republics.\n\nIn the first stages of the 1821 uprising, various areas elected their own regional governing councils. These were replaced by a central administration at the First National Assembly of Epidaurus in early 1822, which also adopted the first Greek Constitution, marking the birth of the modern Greek state. The councils continued in existence however, and central authority was not firmly established until 1824/1825. The new state was not recognized by the Great Powers of the day, which, after initial successes, was threatened with collapse both from within due to civil war and from without through the victories of the Turco-Egyptian army of Ibrahim Pasha.\n\nBy 1827 the Greek revolution had almost been extinguished on the mainland, but by this time the Great Powers had come to agree to the formation of an autonomous Greek state under Ottoman suzerainty, as stipulated in the Treaty of London. Ottoman refusal to accept these terms led to the Battle of Navarino, which effectively secured complete Greek independence.\n\nIn 1827, the Third National Assembly at Troezen established the Hellenic State () and selected Count Ioannis Kapodistrias as Governor of Greece. Therefore, this period is often called Governorate (). After his arrival in Greece in January 1828, Kapodistrias actively tried to create a functional state and redress the problems of a war-ravaged country, but was soon embroiled in conflict with powerful local magnates and chieftains. \n\nKapodistrias was assassinated by political rivals in 1831, plunging the country into renewed civil strife. He was succeeded by his brother Augustinos, who was forced to resign after six months. The Fifth National Assembly at Nafplion drafted a new royal constitution, while the three \"Protecting Powers\" (Great Britain, France and Russia) intervened, declaring Greece a Kingdom in the London Conference of 1832, with the Bavarian Prince Otto of Wittelsbach as king.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20856241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20856241", "title": "Galician slaughter", "text": "Galician slaughter\n\nThe Galician Slaughter, also known as the Peasant Uprising of 1846 or the Szela uprising (; or \"Rabacja galicyjska\"), was a two-month uprising of Galician peasants that led to the suppression of the szlachta uprising (Kraków Uprising) and the massacre of szlachta in Galicia in the Austrian partition in early 1846. The uprising, which lasted from February to March, primarily affected the lands around the town of Tarnów.\n\nIt was a revolt against serfdom, directed against manorial property and oppression (for example, the manorial prisons); Galician peasants killed about 1,000 noblemen and destroyed about 500 manors. The Austrian government used the uprising to decimate nationalist Polish nobles, who were organizing an uprising against Austria.\n\nIn the semi-autonomous Free City of Kraków, patriotic Polish intellectuals and nobles (szlachta) had made plans for a general uprising in partitioned Poland, intending to reestablish an independent Poland. A similar uprising of nobility was planned in Poznań, but police quickly caught the ringleaders. The Kraków Uprising began on the night of February 20, and initially met with limited successes.\n\nIn the meantime, the recent poor harvests resulted in significant unrest among the local peasantry.\n\nThe Kraków uprising was a spark that ignited the peasants' rebellion. The insurgent nobles made appeals to the peasants, reminding them of the popular hero Tadeusz Kościuszko and promising an end to serfdom. Some peasants indeed sided with the nobles. Narkiewicz and Hahn, among others, note that the peasants around Kraków, many of whom remembered the promises made by Kościuszko and peasant soldiers who fought beside him, were sympathetic to the noble insurgents. Another account is of the peasants in Chochołów, who gathered under a Polish flag and fought the Austrians.\n\nMost sources agree that the Austrians encouraged the peasants to revolt. A number of sources point to the actions of the Austrian Tarnów administration, in particular an official identified as the District Officer of Tarnów, Johann Breindl von Wallerstein. Wallerstein reached out to peasant leader Jakub Szela. Serfs were promised the end of their feudal duties if they helped to put down the insurgent Polish noblemen, and were also paid in money and salt for the heads of nobles. Hahn notes \"it is generally accepted as proven that the Austrian authorities deliberately exploited peasant dissatisfaction in order to suppress the national uprising.\" Magosci et al. write that \"most contemporaries condemned the Austrian authorities for their perfidious use of the peasantry for counter-revolutionary aims.\"\n\nIt was ironic, as historian Eric Hobsbawm has noted, that the peasants turned their anger on the revolutionaries, whose ideals also included improvement of the peasants' situation. The progressive ideals of the Polish insurgents were praised, among others, by Karl Marx, who called it a \"deeply democratic movement that aimed at land reform and other pressing social questions\". As noted by several historians, the peasants were not so much acting out of loyalty to the Austrians, as revolting against the oppressive feudal system, of which the Polish nobles were prime representatives and beneficiaries in the Galician region. Wolff takes a different stance here, by noting that it is likely that the Austrian authorities held greater sway with the peasants, who saw improvement in their living conditions in the recent decades, which they associated with the new Austrian rule.\nBideleux and Jeffries (2007) are among the dissenters to that view, citing Alan Sked's 1989 research that contends that \"the Habsburg authorities – despite later chargers of connivance – knew nothing about what was going on and were appalled at the results of the blood-lust.\" Hahn notes that during the events of 1846 \"the Austrian bureaucracy played a dubious role that has not been completely explained, down to the present day.\"\n\nThe peasants also aided the Austrian army in defeating the insurgents at the battle of Gdów.\n\nPeasants attacked the manor houses of the rebel noble leaders as well as of suspected rebel nobles and killed many hundreds of the estate owners and their families; about 90% of the manor houses in the Tarnów region are estimated to have been destroyed. At least 470 manor houses were destroyed. Estimates of the number of lives lost by Polish estate owners and officials range from 1,000 to 2,000. Jezierski notes that most of the victims were not nobles (he estimates those constituted maybe about 200 of the fatalities) but their direct employees. Most of the victims had no direct involvement with the Polish insurgents other than being a part of the same social class. (Davies also notes that near Bochnia, Austrian officials were attacked by overzealous peasantry.) Bideleux and Jeffries discuss the total number of victims noting that \"more than two thousand lives were lost on both sides\", which suggests that most of the victims were from among the Polish nobility.\n\nThe uprising was eventually put down by Austrian troops. Accounts of the pacification vary. Bideleux and Jeffries note it was \"brutally put down by the Austrian troops\". Jezierski notes the use of flagellation by the authorities. Nance describes the arrest and exile of the anti-Austrian peasants in Chochołów. Magocsi et al. note that the peasants were punished by being forced to resume their feudal obligations, while their leader, Szela, received a medal and a land grant.\n\nSerfdom, with corvée labor, existed in Galicia until 1848, and the 1846 massacre of Polish szlachta is credited with helping to bring on its demise.\n\nThe destruction of crops during the hostilities was one of the reasons for the ensuing famine.\n\nFor the Polish nobles and reformers, this event was a lesson that class lines are a powerful force, and that peasants cannot be expected to support a cause of independent Poland without education and reform.\n\nSoon after the uprising was put down, the Republic of Cracow was abolished and incorporated into Galicia.\n\nThe massacre of the gentry in 1846 was the historical memory that haunted Stanisław Wyspiański's play \"The Wedding\". The uprising was also described in the stories \"Der Kreisphysikus\" and \"Jacob Szela\" by Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach.\n\n\na The nationality of the peasants is a complex issue. A number of sources describe them as Polish. Hahn notes that the peasants in the region affected by the uprising were not Ruthenian, but rather \"Polish speaking Catholics\". Others, however, note that the peasants had little national identity and considered themselves Masurians; to quote one of the peasants as late as end of World War I: \"The older peasants called themselves Masurians, and their speech Masurian ... I myself did not know that I was a Pole till I began to read books and papers, and I fancy that other villagers came to be aware of the national attachment in much the same way.\" In turn Wolff prefers to talk of \"Galician peasants\".\n\n"}
{"id": "37773622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37773622", "title": "Gender inequality in China", "text": "Gender inequality in China\n\nChina was a socialist planned economy which promoted gender equality before 1978. After embarking on economic reforms in the 1990s and early 2000s, gender inequality in the Chinese labour markets emerged as significant economic and social issues.\n\nOn a global scale, gender inequality in China is relatively slight. In 2014, China ranked 40th out of 187 countries on the United Nations Development Programme's Gender Inequality Index (GII). Among the GII components, China's maternal mortality ratio was 32 out of 100,000 live births. In education 58.7 percent of women age 25 and older had completed secondary education, while the counterpart statistic for men was 71.9 percent. Women's labour force participation rate was 63.9 percent (compared to 78.3 percent for men), and women held 23.6 percent of seats in the National People's Congress.\nBefore the 1949 Maoist revolution, women were generally restricted to the traditional gender roles of wives, concubines, or prostitutes. Female oppression stemmed partly from Confucian beliefs about gender roles in society (such as filial piety), ideas which remain influential. Wives were expected to be subservient to their husbands, kowtowing to their husbands. Concubines had less choice than married women, and were kept as mistresses by men for sexual services or to produce children. Prostitution frequently resulted from women being sold into brothels by their parents. Legal during the Qing Dynasty, there were few laws regulating prostitution; as a result, prostitutes were similar to slaves and lacked legal rights.\n\nMarriage was defined loosely and encompassed wives, concubines, and slaves. Men were free to pursue sex from women in any of these three categories of \"extended family\". Women were prohibited from having sex with family slaves, a crime punishable by decapitation. Men were frequently polygamous (allowed one wife and an unlimited number of concubines), but women were permitted only one husband. This relationship between men and women in the household illustrated the power held by men in the family and their greater freedom compared with women. Women, for example, would generally lose social standing due to an extramarital affair. However, Qing laws punished both parties equally for premarital sex.\n\nA noted repressive practice was foot binding. Foot binding originated during the Song Dynasty, and was practiced by the wealthiest members of society in the 11th century. Over time, the practice increased and spread to the peasantry. Foot binding was intended to differentiate between upper and lower classes; it was considered attractive, with bound feet known as \"golden lotuses\".\n\nIt aimed to limit the growth of girls' feet, and began at age three. Foot binding eventually resulted in the arch of the foot becoming so angled that a woman was in constant pain and had limited ability to walk. Foot binding subordinated women to men in a number of respects. It was an essential component of marriage eligibility, since women often bound their feet to increase their chance of finding a better marriage partner. Men used foot binding to force women to be dependent; due to pain associated with walking, women were limited to household activities. Women with bound feet had considerable difficulty carrying out simple tasks (such as standing up from a chair without assistance) and a lower functional reach than women with normal feet. Foot binding encouraged the sexual objectification of women, since it fulfilled men's sexual desires and fantasies. It reinforced the ideology that women were useful only in sexualized, sedentary roles to satisfy men's desires.\n\nFoot binding was such an established part of Chinese culture that the Emperor K'ang Hsi was unable to suppress the practice in 1650. Widespread anti-foot binding sentiment began during the late 19th century, and gained in popularity until the practice was outlawed in 1912. In 1997, the feet of 38 percent of Beijing women over 80 years of age and 18 percent of women aged 70–79 were deformed by foot binding.\n\nThe purpose of women's education was to reinforce their subordinate status and ensure that they obeyed rules made by men. Women were taught social norms which restricted their rights and behavior. Only middle-class and wealthier women would receive an education, indicating a family's superiority. Women were educated at home by teachers who followed social norms. In the Eastern Han Dynasty, four books were used for women's education: \"Nü sishu\" (including \"Nüjie\") by Ban Zhao, \"Nü lunyu\" by Song Ruoxin, \"Nüxun\" by Empress Renxiao, and \"Nüfan jielu\" by Ms. Liu. These books reinforced norms which harmed women and restricted their daily activities. The three obediences and four virtues which were adopted by many women are part of \"Nüjie\". The three obediences were \"obey father before marriage\", \"obey husband during marriage\" and \"obey sons during widowhood\", illustrating the subordination of women to men throughout their lives. The four virtues were \"female virtues\", \"female words\", \"female appearance\" and \"female work\", designed to fulfill the needs of men and society. Women's desires and needs were trivialized, and education became a tool to maintain male control of women.\n\nA woman's personality was also restricted by this education. Women were taught to be weak and subordinate, respecting the men who dominated them. The physical differences between men and women as well were emphasized; men were seen as yin, and women were seen as yang. Yin and yang are the opposite of each other, and women were not allowed to physically interact with men outside of marriage. Women (as yang) were considered a negative element, reinforcing their inferior status, and were sometimes forbidden from leaving their room to demonstrate their loyalty. Obedience to men and elder relatives was the essential element of women's education. Women were powerless to resist, since society would not accept women who challenged men. As a socializing agent, women's education played an important role in shaping their image and maintaining their subordinate status for many dynasties.\n\nDuring the planned-economy era of (1949-1978, also known as the Mao Zedong era), the Communist Party sought to make Chinese women legally and socially equal to men. The Communist government attempted to challenge Confucian beliefs, and one of its main goals was to improve the social position of women by promoting their entry into the labour force. The Constitution of the People's Republic of China, which was enacted in 1954, stated that women and men should have equal rights. To promote gender equality, the Communist Party promoted the slogan \"Women hold up half the sky\" to illustrate the importance of women to China's economic success. The party and the government implemented policies ensuring equal pay for equal work and equal opportunity for men and women.\n\nIn practice, however, wage inequality still existed during this era due to occupational and industrial segregation by gender. Enterprises typically divided their jobs into two groups (primary and secondary); men were more likely to be given primary jobs, and women secondary jobs. While women were entering the labour market, they were still expected to look after their homes and families. As a result, women were said to bear \"a double burden\" of work during the Mao era.\n\nState feminism refers to the state's support of women's equality in the public and work sectors through legislation, often progressive state laws to ensure gender equality. This state-supported feminism promoted employment opportunities for women in the public sector and provided benefits such as maternity leave and day care to female workers. State feminism also enforced laws prohibiting polygamy, the buying and selling of women, arranged marriage and prostitution.\n\nYang stated in her article, \"From Gender Erasure to Gender Difference\", that state feminism during the Mao era liberated \"women from the traditional kinship patriarchy, but although women were catapulted into the public sphere of labour and politics, the feminist agenda was forgotten with the decline of gender salience and women's transformation into state subjects in a new masculine state order\". According to Lisa Rofel, an American anthropologist studying feminism and gender studies, \"The status of unfortunate widows (and their daughters) of poor families changed dramatically from 'broken shoes' to 'labour models' after 1949\". Although state feminism provided some legal protection to women, it did not achieve gender equality. Gail Hershatter agreed: \"The communist revolution didn't change the work women did. Women had always worked. What the revolution changed is the work environment and the social interpretation of working outside of familial context.\"\n\nChanging employment policy was a major part of China's reforms after the Mao era. Under Mao China formed the Tong Bao Tong Pei employment system, a centralised system which created government-guaranteed jobs. Due to widespread unemployment after the Cultural Revolution, the Communist Party and the government phased out guaranteed employment and reformed the employment system as part of larger economic changes.\n\nReform took place in three stages. During the first stage (1978–1991), the existing framework was adapted: maintaining planned employment as the primary form of employment and adding a two-track system permitting government and private-sector employment. In the second stage (1992–2001), additional reforms continued to promote the market-oriented employment system while maintaining a degree of planned employment. In the third stage (after 2001), the reform process was accelerated to generate a market-oriented employment system in which private-sector employment was primary. Market reforms took China away from central economic planning and towards a system based on capitalist market mechanisms.\n\nAlthough women gained significantly greater opportunities for work under the economic reform, they have borne a disproportionate share of its costs. China's market-oriented economic reforms undermined workplace gender equality by using migrant women as a cheap, flexible labour force. Migrant women make up a large proportion of factory workers, maids, and domestic workers, jobs which are prone to exploitation due to a lack of public scrutiny. However, migrant women are essential to the success of China's free-market economy; without their inexpensive labour, the country could not compete successfully in the global manufacturing market. Lacking strict government regulations protecting women's rights (partially due to the degree of corruption in China), gender inequality in thelabouur market continues to be an issue plaguing the country's free market system.\n\nSince the economic reforms, the average real earnings of male professional workers have grown by 350 percent. Although women have gained working opportunities, the unparalleled growth in male salaries have widened the gender wage gap. The greatest ( and broadest) increases in the wage gap occurred during the late 1990s, as the labour market shifted from an administratively-regulated wage system to a market-oriented one.\n\nIntroduced in 1979, China's one-child policy set a limit on the number of children parents could have. Because parents preferred sons, the incidence of sex-selective abortions and female infanticide substantially increased. This has led to male overpopulation in China; in 2005, men under age 20 outnumbered women by more than 32 million.\n\nGender-based wage stratification has become a major issue in post-reform China. A 2013 study found that women are paid 75.4 percent of what men are paid (an average of RMB 399 per month, compared to RMB 529 per month for men). \n\nThese statistics are in line with previous findings; a 1990 wage survey found that women earned 77.4 percent of male income in urban areas (RMB 149.6, compared to RMB 193.2 for men) and 81.4 percent of male income in rural areas (an annual average of RMB 1,235 for women and RMB 1,518 for men). These findings indicate that the income gap has not been closing in China, and wage inequality may be on the rise. Two-thirds of this differential has been attributed to unequal pay for the same work. Part of the difference results from higher-quality skills acquired by men through better educational opportunities, managerial positions, and previous work experience. Since women have limited opportunity to develop the education or skills necessary to obtain higher-level jobs, they are often paid less for their work; female entrepreneurs are denied access to the networking opportunities of their male counterparts. A number of factors have contributed to the rise in wage inequality in China. \n\nEducational background and profession have been identified as two main factors of an increased gender wage gap, and regional impacts have been recognized as a major cause of the increasing wage inequality. Women in the workplace still face discrimination, and are discouraged from applying for managerial and highly-paid jobs. The high end of most sectors is still male-dominated, and business events often include the sexual objectification of women. In Chinese business culture, deals and partnerships are made through evenings of banqueting, going to KTV bars and drinking. Female hostesses (and sometimes prostitutes) play an important role in the success of these gatherings, highlighting the the businessmen's masculinity. Due to the sexualized nature of these events, female entrepreneurs are frequently discouraged from (or uncomfortable attending) these networking evenings. As a result, businesswomen have less access to the networks of government officials, business partners, and underworld organizations which are crucial to entrepreneurial success in China.\n\nA main factor in the Hong Kong gender wage gap is age. More men achieve superior positions in a job because women leave the job market earlier to take care of their family. Men remain in the job market longer, allowing for more more raises and better jobs. Women in their 30s earn 11 per cent less on average than their male counterparts, and the gap increases with age; women over 60 earn an average of HK$322,000, about half the HK$618,000 earned by men. Although the wage gap has narrowed, there is room for improvement. Gender-based wage inequality will be a major factor in pay decisions because of inclusion and diversity (I&D) programs; thirteen percent of Asia-Pacific employers have I&D programs.\n\nFeminization of informal sector employment and devaluation of female-dominated occupations are two new labor-market trends since China's economic reforms. A survey of seven provinces and eleven cities found that gender segregation increased in forty-four out of fifty-one examined occupations between 1985 and 2000, and women were restricted from entering a larger number of professional occupations based on their gender. They were barred from more white-collar jobs than blue-collar ones, demonstrating the difficulty women have in obtaining higher-level jobs. One impact of gendered jobs is lower wages for women, illustrated by the lower average incomes of female-dominated enterprises compared to male-dominated ones. During the early 1990s, an increase in the number of female employees in the sales and service industries was accompanied by a reduction in the average income of these sectors. Data from the same time period indicates an inverse relationship between the proportion of women employed at an institution and the average wage of the institution's employees.\n\nThe \"beauty economy\" refers to companies using attractive young women to increase profits. The women used to promote goods and services are generally known as pink-collar workers. These women can be found at car shows and company booths at conventions, and in publishing, insurance, and real-estate development. The beauty economy is a marked shift from Mao-era attitudes in which sexuality was subdued to promote gender equality. In 21st-century China, sexuality is promoted in capitalist endeavors. Although many women involved in the beauty economy hold relatively-mundane jobs, others are involved in legally-complicated endeavors as \"grey women\": mistresses and hostesses who cater to a rich clientele. These women are sell their sexuality (sometimes including their bodies) as a consumable good in the capitalist economy. The close relationship between hypersexualized grey women and the business world has made extramarital affairs common amongst Chinese businessmen. This highly-publicized trend has created a new market for aging wives of products to remain youthful and (ideally) keep their husbands faithful. In 2004, China had the world's eighth-largest cosmetics market in the world and Asia's second-largest. The beauty economy has set high standards for physical appearance, encouraging women to consume youth-preserving products and promoting ageism.\n\nDuring the state-owned enterprise (SOE) reforms of the late 1990s, women were laid off in greater numbers and received larger pay cuts than men. Female-dominated industries, such as textiles and other light industry, were affected greatly by the reforms and many women lost their jobs; employees in secondary jobs were laid off in greater numbers than those in primary jobs. Since women occupied a high proportion of secondary jobs, they were the first to be laid off during the economic downturn; women were also forced to retire at a younger age than men. The government-mandated retirement age for women was generally five years younger than that for men, but internal retirement ages (determined by individual enterprises) were even lower for women. Enterprises which laid off the most workers had performed poorly and were unable to survive in the new market economy; they also employed a larger proportion of women than men. When the companies went under, larger numbers of women than men were unemployed.\n\nDuring the market-oriented reforms, there was widespread evidence of employment discrimination in hiring. Sexism in recruitment takes two forms: explicit and hidden. Explicit gender discrimination refers to directly-stated restrictions on women in the recruitment process, and hidden discrimination occurs primarily in the preferential hiring of men. Contemporary China has three general types of gender-based hiring discrimination. Gender restrictions on careers and jobs create an environment where women are only welcomed into careers which match traditional female roles: primarily domestic, secretarial, or factory work. Gender discrimination also affects women of reproductive age, who are frequently passed over due to a potential future loss of productivity resulting from pregnancy. Ageism affects many women, especially those working in the service industry (where youth is a key component of workplace success). In this sector, women over age 30 are frequently denied jobs. Female job-seekers over age 40 are especially subject to ageism in most industries, despite being past child-bearing age. The age limit for men is more relaxed, usually 40 or 45 years of age. Although laws are in place to prevent hiring discrimination, there is little enforcement.\n\nForeign direct investment (FDI) has significantly impacted employment in China. The number of employees hired by foreign direct investment enterprises in the country's urban areas increased steadily from 1985 to 2005; between 2002 and 2005, the number of employees hired by FDI enterprises in urban China increased by 5.95 million. FDI is mainly driven by China's low cost of labor. A considerable number of foreign-invested enterprises are based in labor-intensive industries such as the garment industry, electronics manufacturing, and the food and beverage processing industry.\n\nFDI has disproportionately affected women, who frequently hold low-skill, low-paying factory jobs funded by foreign investment. A 2000 study found that 62.1 percent of FDI-employed workers were female. Wages by gender have been inconsistently affected by FDI, with pay equality in FDI industries increasing in 1995 and decreasing in 2005. This shift may be caused by increased FDI investment in production, resulting in additional low-paying factory jobs which are predominantly filled by women.\n\nConfucianism provided a framework which judged individuals by their faithfulness and adherence to social norms dictated by ancient customs. Men were evaluated according to how well they fulfilled their social positions as husbands, fathers, sons or servants. Correspondingly, women were valued based on their conduct as wives, mothers and daughters. Mainly assigned household activities, women were considered less important and therefore inferior.\n\nDuring the late 12th century, neo-Confucian scholar Zhu Xi advocated the \"three bonds\" between ruler and subject, father and son, and husband and wife. Husbands were granted power over their wives through the Confucian emphasis on sexual differentiation as key to maintaining societal harmony. While husbands ruled the \"external world\", women operated in the \"internal world\" by running the household; however, women lacked power in society. Although women held executive power in the household, their influence rarely rivaled that of men in the public sphere. Confucian values indicated, and reinforced, a clear hierarchy. Women were subordinate to men—particularly young women, who were on the lowest level of this hierarchy.\n\nIn Confucian Chinese culture, women's identities were often oppressed; the deeply-rooted Confucian teachings which shaped Chinese culture and values reinforced a patriarchal family unit that devalued women. A daughter was seen as a temporary member of her father's side of the family, since she would leave the family at marriage. This notion of family abandonment is reflected in Magarey Wolf's statement in \"Uterine Families and the Women's Community\" that \"when a young woman marries, her formal ties with the household of her father are severed ... that she, like the water, may never return\". In Chinese Confucian society, a woman's identity is subordinated and she is barely recognized as a person.\n\nFor Chinese women, discovering personhood and kinship is challenging because Confucian culture can be an obstacle. Confucianism highlights the ideal of \"nan zhu wai, nu zhu nei\" (男主外，女主内), reflecting female subordination by encouraging women to remain in the household while their husbands are the breadwinners in the outside world. According to Wang's 2012 article, \"Goodbye Career, Hello Housekeeping\", \"80 percent of husbands in China hope their wives will become full-time homemakers\" to stabilize their marriage and take care of their families. Under the Confucian influence, it has been the norm for women to quit their outside job to fulfill their obligations as wives while men remain in control outside the household and remain in their profession. It is rare in Chinese society to challenge the idea of women sacrificing their professional career, because Chinese society has a \"relative[ly] ambiguous boundary between public and private spheres\". This ambiguity may be a vital obstacle to gender equality. A women's sense of self in Chinese society includes her husband, her inner circle and her family by marriage, broadening (and complicating) her definition of personhood. Women's dedication and sacrifices are justified by a societal norms and a Confucian culture which increase female subordination. According to Chinese anthropologist Fei Xiaotong, \"Sacrificing the family for one's own interests, or the lineage for the interests of one's household, is in reality a formula, with this formula, it is impossible to prove that someone is acting selfishly\". <en are in an advantageous position, since this differential mode of association legitimizes women's sacrifice of their professional career as a normal social pattern for the benefit of the family; a husband's preference for his wife to stay home while he keeps his career is not seen as selfishness. Male selfishness is justified by the differential mode of association which \"drives out social consciousness\". Wives who sacrifice their \"lineage for the sake of [their] family, [they are actually projected as] performing a public duty\".\n\nWomen face significant pressures from their families during their mid- to late twenties to quit working and get married. In rural northwestern China, some mothers still consider education less important for their daughters since they are expected to marry and leave home. There is an insignificant gender gap in educational investments in rural northwestern China, however, indicating progress in educational gender equality. Although work can be a way for women to postpone marriage, failure to marry is socially unacceptable for Chinese women. Fewer Chinese women remain working past marriage, and those who do often struggle to balance work and familial expectations. By relinquishing income generation to their husbands and staying home, many Chinese women lose autonomy and authority. Societal adherence to strict Confucian values about filial piety and women's obedience to men, intended to create hierarchies in the home which produce harmony in society, produces a patrilineal, patriarchal system which discourages gender equality. Marriage pressures stem from Confucian values which promote the necessity for women to marry to continue the family lineage by bearing a son.\n\nFamily pressure has been, and continues to be, a main driving force of Chinese marriages. Although society has progressed from traditional values, heterosexual marriages remain the most socially-accepted form of union. This leads to struggles for LGBTQ marriages to be accepted, leading to contract or cooperative marriages (\"hezuo hunyin\" or \"xingshi hunyin\"). Cooperative marriages are an extreme form of heterosexual pretence, typically consensual relationships between a lesbian (\"lala\") and a gay man. Cooperative marriages are the result of strong family pressure to conform to societal expectations of a heterosexual marriage, underpinning the inequality of same-sex marriages.\n\nFurther examples of family pressure in Chinese society are flash marriages. A flash (or blitz) marriage is a union between partners who have known each other for less than a month. This form of union has become increasingly popular in China due to economic and social factors. Men and women perceive happiness as a result of stability in contemporary China, particularly in the relationship and family spheres. However, financial stability and successful careers have also become predominant aspirations amongst young professionals. Young professionals (particularly women) are often still expected to marry at a relatively-young age, and if they fail to do so they are known as \"sheng nu\" (leftover women}. Strong family pressure reinforces this ideology, and the focus on career development often leads to less time for individual personal lives (resulting in flash marriages).\n\nWomen who resist family pressure and do not marry by their late twenties risk being stigmatized as \"sheng nu\" (剩女, leftover women). Due to the prevalence of marriage in China, these unmarried women are often seen by potential employers as overly particular or otherwise flawed. The \"surplus women\" perception promotes gender inequality in the workplace by characterizing unmarried women as inferior. Older women frequently struggle to find jobs, due to discrimination against their marital status.\nIn response to the surplus-women issue, many urban parents pursue partners for their older unmarried daughters in matchmaking corners. These corners are essentially marriage markets; parents place their daughter or son's name and personal information on a card for others to see as they look for a potential match. Although the success rate for matchmaking corners is low and parents are ashamed of resorting to them, many desperate parents continue to visit the corners on their children's behalf. A frequent complaint from parents of daughters is a lack of quality men nationwide, despite a surplus of men. Matchmaking corners illustrate the importance of marriage and the lengths to which parents will go to ensure that their daughters do not become \"surplus women\". Due to parental anxiety, women are pressured to marry young (even a flash marriage, at the cost of career and independence) before they see themselves as too old to find a quality husband.\n\nSK-II, a Japanese skincare brand, released a video about \"leftover women\". The video encourages them to live the life they want to live and not let their future be determined by what their parents want or what they have been raised to believe is a good life. Telling the story of several Chinese women over age 27 and their families, it ends with their families' support and calls China's unmarried men \"leftover men\". The video illustrates the issue's prevalence in China and female resentment of it.\n\nOriginally developed during the Communist era to inhibit mobility between the countryside and the cities (increasing government control), the Hukou system (household registration system) remains influential. Under this system, families are registered in a specific region and can only use schools and healthcare in that region. Since hukou is tied to the maternal line, the system disproportionately affects social mobility for women. Although rural women can travel to cities for work, these migrants have no access to healthcare (due to their rural registration) and limited ability to marry and bear children in the city. When migrant women have children in the cities, their children have no access to education unless they return home or they pay out of pocket. Many migrant women are forced to return to the countryside to have children, sacrificing their urban jobs and temporarily separated from their husbands.\n\nFamilies with urban registration have significant advantages over those with rural registration. School-age children from urban families with parental incomes, education, and jobs similar to rural families generally receive two additional years of schooling at higher-accredited and better-funded schools. Since hukou is passed through the maternal line, the system prevents rural women from giving their children social mobility and perpetuates gender and rural-urban inequality.\n\nStudies of gender differences in contemporary China have indicated that family concerns affect men's and women's job mobility differently. Women tend to be negatively affected in employment by marriage and family, and a significant job-mobility gender gap exists in urban China. An urban study of job changes found that women tend to experience family-oriented job changes and involuntary terminations, and men tend to experience career-oriented job changes. Women are expected to prioritize family and marriage, and men are expected to prioritize their career. The study noted employer discrimination against, and fewer career opportunities for, married women (who, it is believed, have lower productivity and commitment to work due to family obligations. Another study of the urban Chinese labour market demonstrates that the presence of children under age five negatively affects women's employment status and income, but not men's. Women are expected to take care of children and housework, and their roles as wives, mothers and caregivers cause work-family conflicts and constrain job choices. Many women seek a work-family balance by choosing family-friendly jobs (\"female-typical\" jobs, with lower pay and less opportunity for career advancement) to fulfill their expected responsibilities from work and family. A study of unemployment duration among urban Chinese women indicated that married women have a higher layoff rate, longer unemployment periods and less opportunity to be re-employed than married men. In the traditional Chinese view, women are expected to be family caregivers and men are expected to be family breadwinners. Employers (mostly male) tend to protect men's employment and consider it more acceptable to lay off women, who can \"take back\" their responsibilities in the family after the retreat from employment.\n\nThe traditional Chinese family is patriarchal. This view regulates gender roles and divisions of labor in the family, and affects resource allocation in the family and any family business. Men usually control valuable resources and assets such as land, property, and credit, and can accumulate capital and start a business more easily than women. In a family business, women are usually unpaid labor and entrepreneurial rights and opportunities are reserved for men.\n\nWomen are expected to be family caregivers. In contemporary China, women are also expected to financially contribute to the family (especially in rural China, where economic development is relatively low). In many rural families, men and women will migrate to urban areas to support their rural family. A study of migrant workers in southern China found that women usually spend less and send a larger proportion of their wages back to their rural family than men do.\n\nInstitutions and activities for self-improvement have emerged in China, particularly in urban centers. These training activities may foster skills relevant to the job market or focus on self-realization. Many women in China participate such activities, particularly those related to emotional well-being and psychotherapy. However, access to these activities is limited by gender. Women often consider their self-improvement as limited to their lives before marriage, since after marriage (unlike men) their main role is caring for children or parents.\n\nAlthough sexuality was a forbidden topic in Chinese public life, it is prevalent in contemporary China. Sexuality is portrayed as modern, and discussion of the topic is viewed as liberating. Sexual humour and objectification (particularly of young women) pervade mass media to attract audiences, as gender discrimination persists; men and women are still presented in stereotypical ways. Men are depicted as strong, active, and rational, and women are depicted as the opposite. Sexuality, combined with unacknowledged gender inequality, perpetuates the commodification and marginalization of women in China.\n\nMainstream media are dominated by marriage and private life as women's issues, rather than gender discrimination and inequality. A study indicated that \"delaying marriage and relationship\" was the most-frequently-discussed topic by mainstream media. Media focus on women's personal lives, such as marriage and romantic relationships, while gender issues such as \"gender discrimination\" and \"traditional values declined\" are ignored.\n\n\"Nüzhubo\" (female broadcasters) are female performers who stream themselves performing on live-streaming sites, mostly by singing, dancing, video-game commenting, or eating (mukbang). \"Livestream viewing has become a mainstream pastime with more than 200 active livestreaming platforms and millions of concurrent viewers every day in contemporary China.\" The live-streaming industry in China is dominated by women, and the growth of the industry is built on the popularity of \"Nüzhubo\". \"Nüzhubo\" earn a living by receiving virtual gifts from followers, and are subject to \"constructions of the male gaze\" by media and the public. With fierce competition for viewers and followers, most try to attract viewers (especially male viewers) with their appearance. Some are criticized by local and foreign media for their use of sexual content to increase popularity.\n\n\nSelection of children by gender:\n\n\nBeing a Woman in China Today: A Demography of Gender\n\nGender Equality in ChinaFive ways China's women are closing the gender gap\n\nDo women in China face greater inequality than women elsewhere?\n"}
{"id": "44276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44276", "title": "Gun control", "text": "Gun control\n\nGun control (or firearms regulation) is the set of laws or policies that regulate the manufacture, sale, transfer, possession, modification, or use of firearms by civilians.\n\nMost countries have a restrictive firearm guiding policy, with only a few legislations being categorized as permissive. Jurisdictions that regulate access to firearms typically restrict access to only certain categories of firearms and then to restrict the categories of persons who will be granted a license to have access to a firearm. In some countries such as the United States, gun control may be legislated at either a federal level or a local state level.\n\nGun control refers to domestic regulation of firearm manufacture, trade, possession, use, and transport, specifically with regard to the class of weapons referred to as small arms (revolvers and self-loading pistols, rifles and carbines, assault rifles, submachine guns and light machine guns).\n\nUsage of the term \"gun control\" is sometimes politicized. Some of those in favor of legislation instead prefer to use terms such as \"gun-violence prevention\", \"gun safety\", \"firearms regulation\", \"illegal guns\", or \"criminal access to guns\".\n\nIn 2007, it was estimated that there were, globally, about 875 million small arms in the hands of civilians, law enforcement agencies, and armed forces. Of these firearms 650 million, or 75%, are held by civilians. U.S. civilians account for 270 million of this total. A further 200 million are controlled by state military forces. Law enforcement agencies have some 26 million small arms. Non-state armed groups have about 1.4 million firearms. Finally, gang members hold between 2 and 10 million small arms. Together, the small arms arsenals of non-state armed groups and gangs account for, at most, 1.4% of the global total.\n\nBarring a few exceptions, most countries in the world allow civilians to purchase firearms subject to certain restrictions. A 2011 survey of 28 countries over five continents found that a major distinction between different national regimes of firearm regulation is whether civilian gun ownership is seen as a right or a privilege. The study concluded that both the United States and Yemen were distinct from the other countries surveyed in viewing firearm ownership as a basic right of civilians and in having more permissive regimes of civilian gun ownership. In the remaining countries included in the sample, civilian firearm ownership is considered a privilege and the legislation governing possession of firearms is correspondingly more restrictive.\n\nAt the international and regional level, diplomatic attention has tended to focus on the cross-border illegal trade in small arms as an area of particular concern rather than the regulation of civilian-held firearms. During the mid-1990s, however, the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) adopted a series of resolutions relating to the civilian ownership of small arms. These called for an exchange of data on national systems of firearm regulation and for the initiation of an international study of the issue. In July 1997, ECOSOC issued a resolution that underlined the responsibility of UN member states to competently regulate civilian ownership of small arms and which urged them to ensure that their regulatory frameworks encompassed the following aspects: firearm safety and storage; penalties for the unlawful possession and misuse of firearms; a licensing system to prevent undesirable persons from owning firearms; exemption from criminal liability to promote the surrender by citizens of illegal, unsafe or unwanted guns; and, a record-keeping system to track civilian firearms. In 1997, the UN published a study based on member state survey data titled the \"United Nations International Study on Firearm Regulation\" which was updated in 1999. This study was meant to initiate the establishment of a database on civilian firearm regulations which would be run by the Centre for International Crime Prevention, located in Vienna. who were to report on national systems of civilian firearm regulation every two years. These plans never reached fruition and further UN-led efforts to establish international norms for the regulation of civilian-held firearms were stymied. Responding to pressure from the U.S. government, any mention of the regulation of civilian ownership of small arms was removed from the draft proposals for the 2001 UN Programme of Action on Small Arms.\n\nAlthough the issue is no longer part of the UN policy debate, since 1991 there have been eight regional agreements involving 110 countries concerning aspects of civilian firearm possession. The Bamako Declaration, was adopted in Bamako, Mali, on 1 December 2000 by the representatives of the member states of the Organisation of African Unity (OAU). The provisions of this declaration recommend that the signatories would establish the illegal possession of small arms and light weapons as a criminal offence under national law in their respective countries.\n\nHigh rates of gun mortality and injury are often cited as a primary impetus for gun control policies. A 2004 National Research Council critical review found that while some strong conclusions are warranted from current research, the state of our knowledge is generally poor. The result of the scarcity of relevant data is that gun control is one of the most fraught topics in American politics and scholars remain deadlocked on a variety of issues. Notably, since 1996, when the Dickey Amendment was first inserted into the federal spending bill, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has been prohibited from using its federal funding \"to advocate or promote gun control,\" thwarting gun violence research at the agency at the time. The funding provision's author has said that this was an over-interpretation, but the amendment still had a chilling effect, effectively halting federally funded firearm-related research. Since the amendment, the CDC has continued to research gun violence and publish studies about it, although their funding for such research has fallen by 96% since 1996, according to Mayors Against Illegal Guns. According to a spokesman, the CDC has limited funding and hasn't produced any comprehensive study aimed at reducing gun violence since 2001.\n\nA 1998 review found that suicide rates generally declined after gun control laws were enacted, and concluded that \"The findings support gun control measures as a strategy for reducing suicide rates.\" A 2016 review found that laws banning people under restraining orders due to domestic violence convictions from accessing guns were associated with \"reductions in intimate partner homicide\". Another 2016 review identified 130 studies regarding restrictive gun laws and found that the implementation of multiple such laws simultaneously was associated with a decrease in gun-related deaths.\n\nAccording to a 2011 UN study, after identifying a number of methodological problems, it stated \"notwithstanding such challenges, a significant body of literature tends to suggest that firearm availability predominantly represents a risk factor rather than a protective factor for homicide. In particular, a number of quantitative studies tend towards demonstrating a firearm prevalence-homicide association.\"\n\nIn 1983, a cross-sectional study of all 50 U.S. states found that the six states with the strictest gun laws (according to the National Rifle Association) had suicide rates that were approximately 3/100,000 people lower than in other states, and that these states' suicide rates were 4/100,000 people lower than those of states with the least restrictive gun laws. A 2003 study published in the \"American Journal of Preventive Medicine\" looked at the restrictiveness of gun laws and suicide rates in men and women in all 50 U.S. states and found that states whose gun laws were more restrictive had lower suicide rates among both sexes. In 2004, another study found that the effect of state gun laws on gun-related homicides was \"limited\". A 2005 study looked at all 50 states in the U.S. and the District of Columbia, and found that no gun laws were associated with reductions in firearm homicide or suicide, but that a \"shall-issue\" concealed carry law may be associated with increased firearm homicide rates. A 2011 study found that firearm regulation laws in the United States have \"a significant deterrent effect on male suicide\". A 2013 study found that in the United States, \"A higher number of firearm laws in a state are associated with a lower rate of firearm fatalities in the state.\" A 2016 study published in \"The Lancet\" found that of 25 laws studied, and in the time period examined (2008–2010), nine were associated with reduced firearm mortality (including both homicide and suicide), nine were associated with increased mortality, and seven had an inconclusive association. The three laws most strongly associated with reduced firearm mortality were laws requiring universal background checks, background checks for ammunition sales, and identification for guns. In an accompanying commentary, David Hemenway noted that this study had multiple limitations, such as not controlling for all factors that may influence gun-related deaths aside from gun control laws, and the use of 29 explanatory variables in the analysis.\n\nOther studies comparing gun control laws in different U.S. states include a 2015 study which found that in the United States, \"stricter state firearm legislation is associated with lower discharge rates\" for nonfatal gun injuries. A 2014 study that also looked at the United States found that children living in states with stricter gun laws were safer. Another study looking specifically at suicide rates in the United States found that the four handgun laws examined (waiting periods, universal background checks, gun locks, and open carrying regulations) were associated with \"significantly lower firearm suicide rates and the proportion of suicides resulting from firearms.\" The study also found that all four of these laws (except the waiting-period one) were associated with reductions in the overall suicide rate. Another study, published the same year, found that states with permit to purchase, registration, and/or license laws for handguns had lower overall suicide rates, as well as lower firearm suicide rates. A 2014 study found that states that required licensing and inspections of gun dealers tended to have lower rates of gun homicides. Another study published the same year, analyzing panel data from all 50 states, found that stricter gun laws may modestly reduce gun deaths. A 2016 study found that U.S. military veterans tend to commit suicide with guns more often than the general population, thereby possibly increasing state suicide rates, and that \"the tendency for veterans to live in states without handgun legislation may exacerbate this phenomenon.\" California has exceptionally strict gun sales laws, and a 2015 study found that it also had the oldest guns recovered in crimes of any states in the U.S.. The same study concluded that \"These findings suggest that more restrictive gun sales laws and gun dealer regulations do make it more difficult for criminals to acquire new guns first purchased at retail outlets.\" Another 2016 study found that stricter state gun laws in the United States reduced suicide rates. Another 2016 study found that U.S. states with lenient gun control laws had more gun-related child injury hospital admissions than did states with stricter gun control laws. A 2017 study found that suicide rates declined more in states with universal background check and mandatory waiting period laws than in states without these laws. Another 2017 study found that states without universal background check and/or waiting period laws had steeper increases in their suicide rates than did states with these laws. A third 2017 study found that \"waiting period laws that delay the purchase of firearms by a few days reduce gun homicides by roughly 17%.\" A 2017 study in the \"Economic Journal\" found that mandatory handgun purchase delays reduced \"firearm related suicides by between 2 to 5 percent with no statistically significant increase in non-firearm suicides,\" and were \"not associated with statistically significant changes in homicide rates.\" Another 2017 study showed that laws banning gun possession by people subject to intimate partner violence restraining orders, and requiring such people to give up any guns they have, were associated with lower intimate partner homicide rates.\n\nA review of published studies of gun control released in October 2003 by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention was unable to determine any statistically significant effect resulting from such laws, although the authors suggest that further study may provide more conclusive information, and noted that \"insufficient evidence to determine effectiveness should not be interpreted as evidence of ineffectiveness\".\n\nIn 2015, Garen Wintemute and Daniel Webster reviewed studies examining the effectiveness of gun laws aimed at keeping guns out of the hands of high-risk individuals in the United States. They found that some laws prohibiting gun possession by people under domestic violence restraining orders or who had been convicted of violent misdemeanors were associated with lower violence rates, as were laws establishing more procedures to see if people were prohibited from owning a gun under these laws. They also found that multiple other gun regulations intended to prevent prohibited individuals from obtaining guns, such as \"rigorous permit-to-purchase\" laws and \"comprehensive background checks\", were \"negatively associated with the diversion of guns to criminals.\"\n\nA 2016 systematic review found that restrictive gun licensing laws were associated with lower gun injury rates, while concealed carry laws were not significantly associated with rates of such injuries. Another systematic review found that stricter gun laws were associated with lower gun homicide rates; this association was especially strong for background check and permit-to-purchase laws.\n\nOther studies have examined trends in firearm-related deaths before and after gun control laws are either enacted or repealed. A 2004 study in the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" found evidence that child access prevention laws were \"associated with a modest reduction in suicide rates among youth aged 14 to 17 years.\" Two 2015 studies found that the permit-to-purchase law passed in Connecticut in 1995 was associated with a reduction in firearm suicides and homicides. One of these studies also found that the repeal of Missouri's permit-to-purchase law was associated with \"a 16.1% increase in firearm suicide rates,\" and a 2014 study by the same research team found that the repeal of this law was associated with a 16% increase in homicide rates. A 2000 study designed to assess the effectiveness of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act found that the law was not associated with reductions in overall homicide or suicide rates, but that it was associated with a reduction in the firearm suicide rate among individuals aged 55 or older. A 1991 study looked at Washington, D.C.'s Firearms Control Regulations Act of 1975, which banned its residents from owning all guns except certain shotguns and sporting rifles, which were also required to be unloaded, disassembled, or stored with a trigger lock in their owners' homes. The study found that the law's enactment was associated with \"a prompt decline in homicides and suicides by firearms in the District of Columbia.\" A 1996 study reanalyzed this data and reached a significantly different conclusion as to the effectiveness of this law.\n\nKleck and Patterson analyzed the impact of 18 major types of gun control laws on every major type of violent crime or violence (including suicide) in 170 U.S. cities, and found that gun laws generally had no significant effect on violent crime rates or suicide rates. Similarly, a 1997 study found that gun control laws had only a small influence on the rate of gun deaths in U.S. states compared to socioeconomic variables.\n\nPhilosophy professor Michael Huemer argues that gun control may be morally wrong, even if its outcomes would be positive, because individuals have a prima facie right to own a gun for self-defence and recreation.\n\nRifles and shotguns are relatively easy to obtain, while handguns and some semi-automatic rifles are restricted.\n\nWith respect to the Criminal Law Amendment Act, a gun control law passed in Canada in 1977, some studies have found that it was ineffective at reducing homicide or robbery rates. One study even found that the law may have actually increased robberies involving firearms. A 1993 study found that after this law was passed, gun suicides decreased significantly, as did the proportion of suicides committed in the country with guns. A 2003 study found that this law \"may have had an impact on suicide rates, even after controls for social variables,\" while a 2001 study by the same research team concluded that the law \"may have had an impact on homicide rates, at least for older victims.\" A 1994 study found that after this law came into force in 1978, suicide rates decreased over time in Ontario, and that there was no evidence of method substitution. The same study found that \"These decreases may be only partly due to the legislation.\"\n\nIn 1991, Canada implemented the gun control law Bill C-17. According to a 2004 study, after this law was passed, firearm-related suicides and homicides, as well as the percentage of suicides involving firearms, declined significantly in that country. A 2010 study found that after this law was passed, firearm suicides declined in Quebec among men, but acknowledged that this may not represent a causal relationship. In 1992, Canada promulgated the Canadian Firearms Act, which aimed at ensuring that guns were stored safely. A 2004 study found that although firearm suicide rates declined in the Quebec region Abitibi-Témiscamingue after the law was passed, overall suicide rates did not. A 2008 study reached similar conclusions with regard to the entire Quebec province; this study also found that C-17 did not seem to increase the rate at which the firearm suicide rate was declining. Other researchers have criticized this 2008 study for looking at too short a time period and not taking account of the fact that the regulations in C-17 were implemented gradually.\n\nA 1990 study compared suicide rates in the Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada metropolitan area (where gun control laws were more restrictive) with those in the Seattle, Washington area in the United States. The overall suicide rate was essentially the same in the two locations, but the suicide rate among 15 to 24 year olds was about 40 percent higher in Seattle than in Vancouver. The authors concluded that \"restricting access to handguns might be expected to reduce the suicide rate in persons 15 to 24 years old, but...it probably would not reduce the overall suicide rate.\"\n\nA 2012 study looked at gun control laws passed in Canada from 1974 to 2008 and found no evidence that these laws had a beneficial effect on firearm homicide rates in that country. According to the study, \"other factors found to be associated with homicide rates were median age, unemployment, immigration rates, percentage of population in low-income bracket, Gini index of income equality, population per police officer, and incarceration rate.\"\n\nA 2013 study of the 1995 Canadian gun control law Firearms Act, 1995 reported little evidence that this law significantly reduced rates of lethal gun violence against women.\n\nIn 1988 and 1996, gun control laws were enacted in the Australian state of Victoria, both times following mass shootings. A 2004 study found that in the context of these laws, overall firearm-related deaths, especially suicides, declined dramatically. A 1995 study found preliminary evidence that gun control legislation enacted in Queensland, Australia reduced suicide rates there.\n\nA 2006 study by gun lobby-affiliated researchers Jeanine Baker and Samara McPhedran found that after Australia enacted the National Firearms Agreement (NFA), a gun control law, in 1996, gun-related suicides may have been affected, but no other parameter appeared to have been. Another 2006 study, led by Simon Chapman, found that after this law was enacted in 1996 in Australia, the country went more than a decade without any mass shootings, and gun-related deaths (especially suicides) declined dramatically. The latter of these studies also criticized the former for using a time-series analysis despite the fact that, according to Chapman et al., \"calculating mortality rates and then treating them as a number in a time series ignores the natural variability inherent in the counts that make up the numerator of the rate.\" Chapman et al. also said that Baker and McPhedran used the Box–Jenkins model inappropriately. A 2010 study looking at the effect of the NFA on gun-related deaths found that the law \"did not have any large effects on reducing firearm homicide or suicide rates,\" although David Hemenway has criticized this study for using a structural break test despite the fact that such tests can miss the effects of policies in the presence of lags, or when the effect occurs over several years. Another study, published the same year, found that Australia's gun buyback program reduced gun-related suicide rates by almost 80%, while non-gun death rates were not significantly affected. Other research has argued that although gun suicide rates fell after the NFA was enacted, the NFA may not have been responsible for this decrease and \"a change in social and cultural attitudes\" may have instead been at least partly responsible. In 2016, Chapman co-authored another study that found that after the NFA was passed, there were no mass shootings in the country (), and that gun-related death rates declined more quickly after the NFA than they did before it. The study also found, however, that non-gun suicide and homicide rates declined even more quickly after the NFA, leading the authors to conclude that \"it is not possible to determine whether the change in firearm deaths can be attributed to the gun law reforms.\" Many gun control advocates cite Australia as a case of successful gun control, but opposers of this legislation argue differently. According to studies, Australia's violent crime and gun crime had been falling since the early 90s. After the gun buyback, the crime dropped at exactly the same rate, prompting questioning if it was the buyback that caused the drop in crime, or if it would have continued without confiscating 26,000 firearms.\n\nA 2007 study found evidence that gun control laws passed in Austria in 1997 reduced the rates of firearm suicide and homicide in that country. In Brazil, after disarmament laws were passed in 2003, gun-related mortality declined by 8% in 2004 relative to the previous year, the first decline observed in a decade. Gun-related hospitalizations also reversed their previous trend by decreasing 4.6% from 2003 to 2004. A 2006 study found that after gun control laws were passed in New Zealand in 1992, suicides committed with guns declined significantly, especially among youth. The same study found a decline in overall youth suicide after the laws were passed, but also concluded that \"it is not possible to determine the extent to which this was accounted for by changes in firearms legislation or other causes.\" A 2010 study looked at the effect of a policy adopted by the Israeli Defense Forces that restricted access to guns among adolescents on suicide rates, and found that \"Following the policy change, suicide rates decreased significantly by 40%.\" The authors concluded that \"The results of this study illustrate the ability of a relatively simple change in policy to have a major impact on suicide rates.\" A 2013 study showed that after the Military of Switzerland adopted the Army XXI reform, which restricted gun availability, in 2003, suicide rates—both overall and firearm-related—decreased. Another 2013 study looking at four restrictive gun laws passed in Norway found that two of them may have reduced firearm mortality among men, but that the evidence was more inconclusive with respect to all of the laws they studied. A 2014 study found that after South Africa's Firearm Control Act was passed in 2000, homicide rates in the country declined, and concluded that \"stricter gun control mediated by the FCA accounted for a significant decrease in homicide overall, and firearm homicide in particular, during the study period [2001–2005].\" A 2000 study found that a ban on carrying guns in Colombia was associated with reductions in homicide rates in two cities in the country, namely, Cali and Bogotá.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4938385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4938385", "title": "Hajj passport", "text": "Hajj passport\n\nA Hajj passport is a special passport used only for a hajj pilgrimage to Mecca.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1727479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1727479", "title": "Hardworking families", "text": "Hardworking families\n\nThe phrase \"hardworking families\" or \"working families\" is an example of a glittering generality in contemporary political discourse. It is used in the politics of the United Kingdom and of the United States, and was heavily used by the political parties in the campaign of the United Kingdom general election, 2005 and the Australian federal election, 2007 where the Rudd Labor Party used the term extensively.\n\nEmerging from some British newspapers around 1995, Gordon Brown expressed gratitude to Bob Shrum for suggesting the phrase between 1994 and 1997.\n\nSome examples of politicians using (or being reported as using) the phrase:\n\nSometimes the use of the phrase by politicians is echoed in media reports on political events, or indeed the news medium itself employs the phrase as part of its own editorializing, in the expectation that its readers will infer that it is referring to them:\n\n\"Hardworking\" is also, by itself, a glittering generality:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16975645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16975645", "title": "Hatchet man (politics)", "text": "Hatchet man (politics)\n\nIn the context of the Watergate scandal, the term hatchet man was used to refer to a trusted and particularly orthodox subordinate tasked by his employer with destroying a political opponent by any means necessary. Charles Colson was known as a hatchet man for President Richard Nixon, as was H.R. Haldeman, who proudly described himself as \"Richard Nixon's 'son of a bitch'\". This use of the term has since become commonplace for anyone who is tasked with conducting distasteful, illegal, or unfair \"dirty work\" to protect the reputation or power of their employer.\n\n"}
{"id": "55048499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55048499", "title": "High Court of Justice of Suriname", "text": "High Court of Justice of Suriname\n\nThe High Court of Justice of Suriname () is the highest court of law in Suriname and is the head of the judicial branch.\n\nWhilst the High Court of Justice is the highest court of appeal, cases beyond the court can be referred on to the Caribbean Court of Justice.\n\nCynthia Valstein-Montnor has been acting president of the High Court of Justice since January 1, 2011.\n"}
{"id": "23999209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23999209", "title": "Interim Government of India", "text": "Interim Government of India\n\nThe Interim Government of India, formed on 2 September 1946 from the newly elected Constituent Assembly of India, had the task of assisting the transition of British India to independence. It remained in place until 15 August 1947, the date of the independence (and partition) of India, and the creation of Pakistan.\n\nAfter the end of the Second World War, the British authorities in India released all political prisoners who had participated in the Quit India movement. The Indian National Congress, the largest Indian political party, which had long fought for national independence, agreed to participate in elections for a constituent assembly, as did the Muslim League. The newly elected government of Clement Attlee dispatched the 1946 Cabinet Mission to India to formulate proposals for the formation of a government that would lead to an independent India.\n\nThe elections for the Constituent Assembly were not direct elections, as the members were elected from each of the provincial legislative assemblies. In the event, the Indian National Congress won a majority of the seats, some 69 per cent, including almost every seat in areas with a majority Hindu electorate. The Congress had clear majorities in eight of the eleven provinces of British India. The Muslim League won the seats allocated to the Muslim electorate.\n\nThe Viceroy's Executive Council became the executive branch of the interim government. Originally headed by the Viceroy of India, it was transformed into a council of ministers, with the powers of a prime minister bestowed on the vice-president of the Council, a position held by the Congress leader Jawaharlal Nehru. After independence all members would be Indians, apart from the Viceroy, in August to become the Governor-General, Lord Mountbatten, who would hold only a ceremonial position, and the Commander-in-Chief, India, Sir Claude Auchinleck, replaced after independence by General Sir Rob Lockhart.\n\nThe senior Congress leader Vallabhbhai Patel held the second-most powerful position in the Council, heading the Department of Home Affairs, Department of Information and Broadcasting. The Sikh leader Baldev Singh was responsible for the Department of Defence and Chakravarthi Rajagopalachari was named to head the Department of Education and arts. Asaf Ali, a Muslim Congress leader, headed the Department of Railways and Transport. Scheduled Caste leader Jagjivan Ram headed the Department of Labour, while Rajendra Prasad headed the Department of Food and Agriculture and John Mathai headed the Department of Industries and Supplies.\n\nUpon the Muslim League joining the interim government, the second highest-ranking League politician, Liaquat Ali Khan, became the head of the Department of Finance. Abdur Rab Nishtar headed the Departments of Posts and Air and Ibrahim Ismail Chundrigar headed the Department of Commerce. The League nominated a Scheduled Caste Hindu politician, Jogendra Nath Mandal, to lead the Department of Law.\n\nAlthough until August 1947 British India remained under the sovereignty of the United Kingdom, the interim government proceeded to establish diplomatic relations with other countries, including the United States. Meanwhile, the Constituent Assembly, from which the Interim Government was drawn, struggled with the challenging task of drafting a constitution for independent India.\n\n"}
{"id": "2646438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2646438", "title": "Islamic state", "text": "Islamic state\n\nAn Islamic state (, \"dawlah islāmiyyah\") is a type of government primarily based on the application of shari'a (Islamic law), dispensation of justice, maintenance of law and order. From the early years of Islam, numerous governments have been founded as \"Islamic\".\n\nHowever, the term \"Islamic state\" has taken on a more specific connotation since the 20th century. The concept of the modern Islamic state has been articulated and promoted by ideologues such as Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, Israr Ahmed or Sayyid Qutb. Like the earlier notion of the caliphate, the modern Islamic state is rooted in Islamic law. It is modeled after the rule of Muhammad. However, unlike caliph-led governments which were imperial despotisms or monarchies (Arabic: \"malik\"), a modern Islamic state can incorporate modern political institutions such as elections, parliamentary rule, judicial review, and popular sovereignty.\n\nToday, many Muslim countries have incorporated Islamic law, wholly or in part, into their legal systems. Certain Muslim states have declared Islam to be their state religion in their constitutions, but do not apply Islamic law in their courts. Islamic states which are not Islamic monarchies are usually referred to as Islamic republics.\n\nThe first Islamic State was the political entity established by Muhammad in Medina in 622 CE, under the Constitution of Medina. It represented the political unity of the Muslim \"Ummah\" (nation). It was subsequently transformed into the caliphate by Muhammad's disciples, who were known as the Rightly Guided (\"Rashidun\") Caliphs (632–661 CE). The Islamic State significantly expanded under the Umayyad Caliphate (661–750) and consequently the Abbasid Caliphate (750–1258).\n\nThe essence or guiding principles of an Islamic government or Islamic state, is the concept of \"Al-Shura\". Different scholars have different understandings or thoughts, with regard to the concept al-Shura. However, most Muslim scholars are of the opinion that Islamic al-Shura should consist of:\n\n\nMuhammad himself respected the decision of the shura members. He is the champion of the notion of al-Shura, and this was illustrated in one of the many historical events, such as in the Battle of Khandaq (Battle of the Trench), where Muhammad was faced with two decisions, i.e. to fight the invading non-Muslim Arab armies outside of Medina or wait until they enter the city. After consultation with the \"sahabah\" (companions), it was suggested by Salman al-Farsi that it would be better if the Muslims fought the non-Muslim Arabs within Medina by building a big ditch on the northern periphery of Medina to prevent the enemies from entering Medina. This idea was later supported by the majority of the sahabah, and thereafter Muhammad also approved it.\n\nThe reason why Muhammad placed great emphasis on the agreement of the decision of the shura was because the majority of opinion (by the sahabah) is better than the decision made by one individual.\n\nThe Ottoman Sultan, Selim I (1512–1520) reclaimed the title of caliph, which had been in dispute and asserted by a diversity of rulers and \"shadow caliphs\" in the centuries of the Abbasid-Mamluk Caliphate since the Mongols' sacking of Baghdad and the killing of the last Abbasid Caliph in Baghdad, Iraq 1258.\n\nThe Ottoman Caliphate as an office of the Ottoman Empire was abolished under Mustafa Kemal Atatürk in 1924 as part of Atatürk's Reforms. This move was most vigorously protested in India, as Gandhi and Indian Muslims united behind the \"symbolism\" of the Ottoman Caliph in the Khilafat (or \"Caliphate\") Movement, which sought to reinstate the Caliph deposed by Atatürk. The Khilafat Movement leveraged the Ottoman political resistance to the British Empire, and this international anti-imperial connection proved to be a galvanizing force during India's nascent nationalism movement of the early 1900s, for Hindus and Muslims alike, even though India was far from the seat of the Ottoman Caliphate in Istanbul. However, the Khilaphat found little support from the Muslims of the middle east themselves who preferred to be independent nation states, instead of being under the Ottoman (Turkish ) rule. In the Indian sub-continent, although Mahatma Gandhi tried to co-opt Khilafat as a national movement, it soon degenerated into a jihad against non-Muslims with thousands being killed in malabar region of Kerala (also known as Moplah riots).\n\n\"The very term, 'Islamic State', was never used in the theory or practice of Muslim political science, before the twentieth century,\" according to Pakistani scholar of Islamic history Qamaruddin Khan.\n\nThe modern conceptualization of the \"Islamic state\" is attributed to Abul A'la Maududi (1903–1979), a Pakistani Muslim theologian who founded the political party Jamaat-e-Islami and inspired other Islamic revolutionaries such as Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. Abul A'la Maududi's early political career was influenced greatly by anti-colonial agitation in India, especially after the tumultuous abolition of the Ottoman Caliphate in 1924 stoked anti-British sentiment.\n\nThe Islamic state was perceived as a \"third way\" between the rival political systems of democracy and socialism (see also Islamic Modernism). Maududi's seminal writings on Islamic economics argued as early as 1941 against free-market capitalism and socialist state intervention in the economy, similar to Mohammad Baqir al-Sadr's later \"Our Economics\" written in 1961. Maududi envisioned the ideal Islamic state as combining the democratic principles of electoral politics with the socialist principles of concern for the poor.\n\nToday, many Muslim countries have incorporated Islamic law in part, into their legal systems. Certain Muslim states have declared Islam to be their state religion in their constitutions, but do not apply Islamic law in their courts. Islamic states which are not Islamic monarchies are usually referred to as Islamic republics, such as the Islamic Republics of Pakistan, Mauritania, Iran and Afghanistan. Pakistan adopted the title under the constitution of 1956. Mauritania adopted it on 28 November 1958. Iran adopted it after the 1979 Revolution that overthrew the Pahlavi dynasty. In Iran, the form of government is known as \"Guardianship of the Islamic Jurists\". Afghanistan was run as an Islamic state (\"Islamic State of Afghanistan\") in the post-communist era since 1992 but then de facto by the Taliban (\"Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan\") in areas controlled by them since 1996, and after the 2001 overthrow of the Taliban the country is still known as the \"Islamic Republic of Afghanistan\". Despite the similar name, the countries differ greatly in their governments and laws.\n\nPan-Islamism is a form of religious nationalism within political Islam which advocates the unification of the Muslim world under a single Islamic state, often described as a caliphate or ummah. The most famous, powerful and aggressive modern pan-Islamic group that pursues the objective of unifying the Muslim world and establishing a worldwide caliphate is the Wahhabi/Salafi jihadist movement Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.\n\nThe Libyan interim Constitutional Declaration as of 3 August 2011 declared Islam to be the official religion of Libya.\n\nLeading up to the Iranian Revolution of 1979, many of the highest-ranking clergy in Shia Islam held to the standard doctrine of the Imamate, which allows political rule only by Muhammad or one of his true successors. They were opposed to creating an Islamic state (see Ayatollah Ha'eri Yazdi (Khomeini's own teacher), Ayatollah Borujerdi, Grand Ayatollah Shariatmadari, and Grand Ayatollah Abu al-Qasim al-Khoei). Contemporary theologians who were once part of the Iranian Revolution also became disenchanted and critical of the unity of religion and state in the Islamic Republic of Iran, are advocating secularization of the state to preserve the purity of the Islamic faith (see Abdolkarim Soroush and Mohsen Kadivar).\n\nPakistan was created as a separate state for Indian Muslims in British India in 1947, and followed the parliamentary form of democracy. In 1949, the first Constituent Assembly of Pakistan passed the Objectives Resolution which envisaged an official role for Islam as the state religion to make sure any future law should not violate its basic teachings. On the whole, the state retained most of the laws that were inherited from the British legal code that had been enforced by the British Raj since the 19th century. In 1956, the elected parliament formally adopted the name \"Islamic Republic of Pakistan\", declaring Islam as the official religion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50067319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50067319", "title": "James Hugo Sporleder", "text": "James Hugo Sporleder\n\nJames Hugo Sporleder (born February 21, 1938) is a civil rights activist recognized for his work with the Freedom of Residence Movement: the driving force behind the landmark Jones v. Mayer Supreme Court case that invalidated racist practices of homebuilders in St. Louis, Missouri.\n\nHe was the lead staff person of Freedom of Residence, an early fair housing organization in the 1960s. Freedom of Residence was the driving force behind the landmark Jones v. Mayer Supreme Court case that invalidated racist practices of homebuilders in St. Louis. The Civil Rights Litigation Clearinghouse said this of Jones v. Mayer, “This case was one of the most important civil rights precedents of the 1960s. It began when the Plaintiffs, prospective African-American homebuyers, applied to purchase a property from Defendant-home developer, who rejected them solely on the basis of their race. Plaintiffs sued in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri under 42 U.S.C. 1981, 1982, 1983, and 2000e, alleging that a race-based denial of a home purchase violated federal civil rights laws, especially the requirement in 42 U.S.C. 1982 that: ‘All citizens of the United States shall have the same right, in every State and Territory, as is enjoyed by white citizens thereof to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold, and convey real and personal property.’”\n\nJim began working at Freedom of Residence in 1968 and the case was already en route to the Supreme Court. He worked with the legal team, headed by Sam Lieberman, to bring to fruition this landmark case. As important he then continued to push the implementation of the new law of the land through Freedom of Residence. When he testified to the United States Senate in May of 1972 on these same unfair practices of lenders and real estate developers he said, “When Lockheed was in trouble, this government figured out a way to help. When the oil industry was in trouble, we helped them. When ITT got into trouble somebody figured a way to help out. And now the people are in trouble. The people are hurting and asking for help. . . . We cannot sweep these practices and exploitive operations of the combination of lenders, real estate dealers, insurance people, and politicians under the table. It must stop.” Always fighting for what was right.\n\nJim also worked for the Urban League, the Nurse Home Visitation Program, the Judevine Center and Jeff Vander Lou, Inc. (JVL). His work at JVL is the second highlight of his professional career. He was the de facto Chief Operating Officer of JVL from the mid 1970s to the mid 1980s working side by side with Macler Shepard the longtime leader and founder of the organization. JVL was a community development organization working in the north city area bounded by Jefferson, Vandeventer and St. Louis Avenues. JVL was a leader in the region in that it was run by local residents and produced affordable housing for both families and seniors, created an innovative partnership with Brown Shoe Company that led to a production plant in the neighborhood, opened a coffee shop and day care center. Simply amazing and that type of work rarely gets accomplished today.\n"}
{"id": "8554604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8554604", "title": "Japan Civil Liberties Union", "text": "Japan Civil Liberties Union\n\nThe is a Japanese non-profit organization founded in 1947. Roger Nash Baldwin of the ACLU played an important role in its founding. The JCLU aims to protect human rights, and bases its operation on international human rights standards, principally the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is affiliated with the International Commission of Jurists (ICJ) and the International League for Human Rights (ILHR).\n\n"}
{"id": "204590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204590", "title": "List of political slogans", "text": "List of political slogans\n\nThe following is a list of notable 18th, 19th, 20th and 21st-century political slogans.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23653359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23653359", "title": "Milk manufacturing marketing adjustment", "text": "Milk manufacturing marketing adjustment\n\nIn United States agricultural policy, the make allowance (or milk manufacturing marketing adjustment) is the margin between the government support price for milk and the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) purchase price for butter, nonfat dry milk, and cheese. This margin is administratively set to cover the costs of “making” milk into butter, nonfat dry milk, or cheese to reach the desired level of prices for milk in manufacturing uses.\n"}
{"id": "25668893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25668893", "title": "Muslim Arbitration Tribunal", "text": "Muslim Arbitration Tribunal\n\nThe Muslim Arbitration Tribunal is a form of alternative dispute resolution which operates under the Arbitration Act 1996 which is available in England. It is one of a range of services (Islamic Sharia Council is another) for Muslims who wish to resolve disputes without recourse to the courts system. According to Machteld Zee, the MAT differs from other Sharia councils in that their ‘core business’ is arbitrating commercial disputes under the Arbitration Act 1996.\n\nThe tribunals were set up by lawyer Faiz-ul-Aqtab Siddiqi and operate in London, Bradford, Manchester, Birmingham and Nuneaton. Two more were originally planned for Glasgow and Edinburgh. Rulings can be enforced in England and Wales by both the County Courts and the High Court. The media have described a system of Islamic Sharia courts which have the power to rule in civil cases. As of 2008, the courts had dealt with around 100 cases dealing with issues such as inheritance and nuisance neighbours.\n\nThe MAT operates under Section 1 of the Arbitration Act which states that: “the parties should be free to agree how their disputes are resolved, subject only to such safeguards as are necessary in the public interest”. As such it operates within the framework of English law and does not constitute a separate Islamic legal system. Under the Act they are deemed to be \"arbitration tribunals\".\n\nThe Muslim Arbitration Tribunal has no powers to grant a divorce which is valid in English and Welsh law. A \"talaq\" can be granted to recognise divorce. A sharia marriage has no bearing on personal status under UK law. The Muslim Arbitration Tribunal has no jurisdiction on criminal matters but can attempt reconciliation between spouses.\n\nDominic Grieve of the Conservative Party has stated: “If it is true that these tribunals are passing binding decisions in the areas of family and criminal law, I would like to know which courts are enforcing them because I would consider such action unlawful. British law is absolute and must remain so.\"\n\nAn e-petition to the UK government to prohibit and criminalise sharia courts received over 15,000 signatures. The government issued a response, stating that sharia rulings are only permitted if legal under UK law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3143552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3143552", "title": "Natal Indian Congress", "text": "Natal Indian Congress\n\nThe Natal Indian Congress (NIC) was an organisation that aimed to fight discrimination against Indians in South Africa. \n\nThe Natal Indian Congress was founded by Mahatma Gandhi in 1894. A was put in place on 22 August 1894.\n\nGandhi was the Honorary Secretary and Abdoola Hajee Adam Jhaveri (Dada Abdulla) was elected president.\n\nThe Vice-Presidents were: Hajee Mahomed Hajee Dada, Abdool Kadir, Hajee Dada Hajee Habib, Moosa Hajee Adam, P. Dawjee Mahomed, Peeran Mahomed, Murugesa Pillay, Ramaswami Naidoo, Hoosen Miran, Adamjee Miankhan, K. R. Nayanah, Amod Bayat (P. M. Burg), Moosa Hajee Cassim, Mahomed Cassim Jeeva, Parsee Rustomjee, Dawad Mahomed, Hoosen Cassim Amod Tili, Doraiswamy Pillay, Omar Hajee Aba, Osmankhan Rahamatkhan, Rangaswami Padayachi, Hajee Mahomed (P. M. Burg), Camroodeen (P. M. Burg).\n\nThe Members of the Committee included: The Vice-Presidents and Messrs M. D. Joshi, Narsiram, Manekji, Dowjee Mammuji Mutalah, Muthu Krishna, Bissessar, Goolam Hoosen Randeri, Shamshoodeen, G. A. Bassa, Sarabjit, L. Gabriel, James Christopher, Sooboo Naidu, John Gabriel, Suleiman Voraji, Cassimjee Amoojee, R. Kundaswamy Naidu, M. E. Kathrada, Ibrahim M. Khatri, Shaik Farid, Varind Ismail, Ranjit, Perumal Naidoo, Parsee Dhanjisha, Royappan, Joosub Abdool Carim, Arjun Singh, Ismail Kadir, Easop Kadua, Mahomed Esak, Mahomed Hafejee, A. M. Paruck, Suleiman Dawjee, V. Narayana Pather, Lutchman Panday, Osman Ahmed & Mahomed Tayub.\n\nDuring its formative years, the NIC introduced many early petitions for changes to proposed discriminatory legislations.\n\nIn the 1960s, the organisation become inactive due to the growing state repression and the ban of its leaders.\n\nIt later allied itself with the African National Congress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21070960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21070960", "title": "Norwegian Association of the Disabled", "text": "Norwegian Association of the Disabled\n\nThe Norwegian Association of the Disabled (, NHF) is an interest organization for disabled people in Norway. The organization has eleven suborganizations for people with specific disabilities, a youth branch, nine regional and three hundred local groups. The goal is full equality and participation in society for people with reduced mobility.\n"}
{"id": "625665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=625665", "title": "Oregon Petition", "text": "Oregon Petition\n\nThe Global Warming Petition Project, also known as the Oregon Petition, is a petition urging the United States government to reject the global warming Kyoto Protocol of 1997 and similar policies. It is commonly considered to be a political petition designed for disinforming and confusing the public about the scientific results and the consensus of climate change research.\n\nThe petition was organized and circulated by Arthur B. Robinson, president of the Oregon Institute of Science and Medicine (described as \"a small independent research group\") in 1998, and again in 2007. Frederick Seitz, then the chairman of the George C. Marshall Institute, wrote a cover letter endorsing the petition, emphasizing connection to the National Academy of Sciences (of which Seitz had previously served as president). \"In a highly unusual move, the National Academy held a press conference to disclaim the mailing and distance itself from its former president.\"\n\nRobinson asserted in 2008 that the petition has over 31,000 signatories, with 9,000 of these holding a PhD degree. Most signatories with a PhD hold their degree in engineering. A 2009 report of the Nongovernmental Panel on Climate Change (NIPCC)—a group that \"disputes the reality of man-made climate change\"—lists 31,478 degreed signatories, including 9,029 with PhDs. The list has been criticized for its lack of verification, with pranksters successfully submitting the names of Charles Darwin, a member of the Spice Girls and characters from \"Star Wars\", and getting them briefly included on the list.\n\nThe text of the petition reads, in its entirety:We urge the United States government to reject the global warming agreement that was written in Kyoto, Japan in December, 1997, and any other similar proposals. The proposed limits on greenhouse gases would harm the environment, hinder the advance of science and technology, and damage the health and welfare of mankind.There is no convincing scientific evidence that human release of carbon dioxide, methane, or other greenhouse gases is causing or will, in the foreseeable future, cause catastrophic heating of the Earth's atmosphere and disruption of the Earth's climate. Moreover, there is substantial scientific evidence that increases in atmospheric carbon dioxide produce many beneficial effects upon the natural plant and animal environments of the Earth.Along with the cover letter from Seitz (see above), the petition was circulated with a manuscript plus a reprint of a December 1997 \"Wall Street Journal\" op-ed (\"Science Has Spoken: Global Warming Is a Myth\") by Arthur and Zachary Robinson. The current version of Seitz's letter describes the summary as \"a twelve page review of information on the subject of 'global warming'.\" The article is titled \"Environmental Effects of Increased Atmospheric Carbon Dioxide\" by Arthur B. Robinson, Noah E. Robinson, Sallie Baliunas and Willie Soon.\n\nAs of October 2007, the petition project website includes an article by Arthur Robinson, Noah E. Robinson and Willie Soon, published in 2007 in the \"Journal of American Physicians and Surgeons\". The \"Journal of the Association of American Physicians and Surgeons\" is associated with the Oregon Institute, which sponsored the petition. The publication, which is not indexed alongside peer-reviewed journals, is the outlet of the Association of American Physicians and Surgeons, which is a libertarian political organization.\n\nThe Oregon Petition Project clarified their verification process as follows:\n\nThe credentials, verification process, and authenticity of the signatories have been questioned.\n\nJeff Jacoby promoted the Oregon Institute petition as delegates convened for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 1998. Jacoby, a columnist for \"The Boston Globe\", said event organizers \"take it for granted\" that global warming is real when scientists do not agree \"that greater concentrations of CO2 would be harmful\" or \"that human activity leads to global warming in the first place.\" George Woodwell and John Holdren, two members of the National Academy of Sciences, responded to Jacoby in the \"International Herald Tribune\", describing the petition as a \"farce\" in part because \"the signatories are listed without titles or affiliations that would permit an assessment of their credentials.\" Myanna Lahsen said, \"Assuming that all the signatories reported their credentials accurately, credentialed climate experts on the list are very few.\" The problem is made worse, Lahsen notes, because critics \"added bogus names to illustrate the lack of accountability the petition involved\". Spurious names on the list included fictional characters from the television show \"M*A*S*H\", the movie \"Star Wars\", Spice Girls group member Geri Halliwell, English naturalist Charles Darwin (d. 1882) and prank names such as \"I. C. Ewe\". When questioned about the pop singer during a telephone interview with Joseph Hubert of the \"Associated Press\", Robinson acknowledged that her endorsement and degree in microbiology was inauthentic, remarking \"When we're getting thousands of signatures there's no way of filtering out a fake\". A cursory examination by Todd Shelly of the \"Hawaii Reporter\" revealed duplicate entries, single names lacking any initial, and even corporate names. \"These examples underscore a major weakness of the list: there is no way to check the authenticity of the names. Names are given, but no identifying information (e.g., institutional affiliation) is provided.\" According to the Petition Project website, the issue of duplication has been resolved. Kevin Grandia offered similar criticism, saying that, although the Petition Project website provides a breakdown of \"areas of expertise\", it fails to assort the 0.5% of signatories who claim to have a background in Climatology and Atmospheric Science by name, making independent verification difficult. \"This makes an already questionable list seem completely insignificant\".\n\nIn 2001, \"Scientific American\" took a random sample \"of 30 of the 1,400 signatories claiming to hold a Ph.D. in a climate-related science.\"\n\nOf the 26 we were able to identify in various databases, 11 said they still agreed with the petition — one was an active climate researcher, two others had relevant expertise, and eight signed based on an informal evaluation. Six said they would not sign the petition today, three did not remember any such petition, one had died, and five did not answer repeated messages. Crudely extrapolating, the petition supporters include a core of about 200 climate researchers – a respectable number, though rather a small fraction of the climatological community.\n\nFormer \"New Scientist\" correspondent Peter Hadfield said that scientists are not experts on every topic, as depicted by the character Brains in \"Thunderbirds\". Rather, they must specialize:In between Aaagard and Zylkowski, the first and last names on the petition, are an assortment of metallurgists, botanists, agronomists, organic chemists and so on. ... The vast majority of scientists who signed the petition have never studied climatology and don't do any research into it. It doesn't matter if you're a Ph.D. A Ph.D in metallurgy just makes you better at metallurgy. It does not transform you into some kind of expert in paleoclimatology. ... So the petition's suggestion that everyone with a degree in metallurgy or geophysics knows a lot about climate change, or is familiar with all the research that's been done, is patent crap.\n\nA manuscript accompanying the petition was presented in a near identical style and format to contributions that appear in \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\", a scientific journal, but upon careful examination was distinct from a publication by the U.S. National Academy of Sciences. Raymond Pierrehumbert, an atmospheric scientist at the University of Chicago, said the presentation was \"designed to be deceptive by giving people the impression that the article … is a reprint and has passed peer review.\" Pierrehumbert also said the publication was full of \"half-truths\". F. Sherwood Rowland, who was at the time foreign secretary of the National Academy of Sciences, said that the Academy received numerous inquiries from researchers who \"are wondering if someone is trying to hoodwink them.\"\n\nAfter the petition appeared, the National Academy of Sciences said in a 1998 news release that \"The NAS Council would like to make it clear that this petition has nothing to do with the National Academy of Sciences and that the manuscript was not published in the \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\" or in any other peer-reviewed journal.\" It also said \"The petition does not reflect the conclusions of expert reports of the Academy.\" The NAS further noted that its own prior published study had shown that \"even given the considerable uncertainties in our knowledge of the relevant phenomena, greenhouse warming poses a potential threat sufficient to merit prompt responses. Investment in mitigation measures acts as insurance protection against the great uncertainties and the possibility of dramatic surprises.\"\n\nRobinson responded in a 1998 article in \"Science\", \"I used the Proceedings as a model, but only to put the information in a format that scientists like to read, not to fool people into thinking it is from a journal.\" A 2006 article in the magazine \"Vanity Fair\" stated: Today, Seitz admits that \"it was stupid\" for the Oregon activists to copy the academy's format. Still, he doesn't understand why the academy felt compelled to disavow the petition, which he continues to cite as proof that it is \"not true\" there is a scientific consensus on global warming.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2069367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2069367", "title": "Political Wing of the FAL", "text": "Political Wing of the FAL\n\nThe Political Wing of the FAL (\"Politieke Vleugel van de FAL\") is a political party in Suriname. \nAt the last legislative elections, held on 25 May 2005, the party was part of the \"A1\" electoral alliance that won 6.2% of the popular vote and three out of 51 seats in the National Assembly. As the name implies, the party is the political wing of the FAL, short for \"Federatie van agrariërs en landarbeiders\" (Federation of farmers).\n"}
{"id": "17596996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17596996", "title": "Public policy of the United States", "text": "Public policy of the United States\n\nPublic policy consists of a system of laws, regulations measures, courses of action, and funding priorities by a government or its representatives. Public policy decisions are often decided by a group of individuals with different beliefs and interests. The policies of the United States of America comprise all actions taken by its federal government. The executive branch is the primary entity through which policies are enacted, however the policies are derived from a collection of laws, executive decisions, and legal precedents.\nThe policies of the United States The Almanac of Policy Issues, which provides background information, archived documents, and links to major U.S. public policy issues, organized the public policy of the United States into nine categories. The following lists these categories followed by a few examples of specific, respective policies:\n\n\nAgricultural policy of the United States is the governing policy for agriculture in the United States and is composed primarily of the periodically renewed federal U.S. farm bills.\n\nIn \"A New Agricultural Policy for the United States,\" authors Dennis Keeney and Long Kemp summarize the agricultural policy of the United States as follows: \"Because of its unique geography, weather, history and policies, the United States has an agriculture that has been dominated by production of commodity crops for use in animal, industrial and export enterprises. Over time agricultural policies evolved to support an industrialized, commodity-based agriculture. This evolution resulted in farmers leaving the land with agriculture moving to an industrial structure.\" In parallel with the industrialization of agriculture in the United States, the Federal Government also developed the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, which emphasize consumption of foods that are produced by large-scale farming.\n\nThe drug policy of the United States is established by The Office of National Drug Control Policy, a former cabinet-level component of the Executive Office of the President of the United States, which was established by the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988. Its stated goal is to establish policies, priorities, and objectives to eradicate illicit drug use, drug manufacturing, and trafficking, drug-related crime and violence, and drug-related health consequences in the U.S.\n\nThe Office of National Drug Control Policy's two current specific goals are to \"curtail illicit drug consumption in America\" and to \"improve the public health and public safety of the American people by reducing the consequences of drug abuse.\" They plan to achieve these goals by taking the following actions:\n\n\nThe energy policy of the United States addresses issues of energy production, distribution, and consumption, such as building codes and gas mileage standards. The United States Department of Energy plays a major role, and its mission is \"to ensure America's security and prosperity by addressing its energy, environmental, and nuclear challenges through transformative science and technology solutions.\"\n\nMoreover, the White House provides a summary of the United States' current condition regarding its energy policy: \"For decades it has been clear that the way Americans produce and consume energy is not sustainable. Our addiction to foreign oil and fossil fuels puts our economy, our national security and our environment at risk. To take this country in a new direction, the President is working with Congress to pass comprehensive energy and climate legislation to protect our nation from the serious economic and strategic risks associated with our reliance on foreign oil, to create jobs, and to cut down on the carbon pollution that contributes to the destabilizing effects of climate change.\"\n\nThe following is a snapshot of the United States' current energy policy goals:\n\n\nThe environmental policy of the United States addresses and regulates activities that impact the environment. Its general goal is to protect the environment for the welfare of future generations. The environmental policy goals are detailed below:\n\n\nThe foreign policy of the United States defines how the United States interacts with foreign nations. It only addresses the security of the American people and promotes international order. The following are the most prominent foreign policies of the United States:\n\n\nThe Federal Reserve, Treasury, and Securities and Exchange Commission took several steps on September 19 to intervene in the crisis. To stop the potential run on money market mutual funds, the Treasury also announced on September 19 a new $50 billion program to insure the investments, similar to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) program. Part of the announcements included temporary exceptions to section 23A and 23B (Regulation W), allowing financial groups to more easily share funds within their group. The exceptions would expire on January 30, 2009, unless extended by the Federal Reserve Board. The Securities and Exchange Commission announced termination of short-selling of 799 financial stocks, as well as action against naked short selling, as part of its reaction to the mortgage crisis.\n"}
{"id": "13276260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13276260", "title": "Reform League", "text": "Reform League\n\nThe Reform League was established in 1865 to press for manhood suffrage and the ballot in Great Britain. It collaborated with the more moderate and middle class Reform Union and gave strong support to the abortive Reform Bill 1866 and the successful Reform Act 1867. It developed into a formidable force of agitation at the very heart of the country.\n\nDuring the autumn and winter of 1864–65 members of the Universal League for the Material Elevation of the Industrious Classes planned to form a new organisation which would concentrate solely on manhood suffrage. As a result, the Reform League was established on 23 February 1865 and the Universal League for the Material Elevation of the Industrious Classes became defunct. The leadership of the League, which was to remain consistent throughout its life, drew heavily on personalities from the International Working Men's Association, including George Howell, George Odger, William Cremer and Benjamin Lucraft. The father of the International, Karl Marx was delighted but he soon came to be disappointed by the outlook of the League. The League leadership also included a number of respectable figures including the barrister, Edmond Beales, as President of the League and Sir Wilfrid Lawson.\n\nThe League excluded a number of trade unionists, including Thomas Vaze of the Painters and John Bedford Leno the shoemaker poet because they had supported the South during the American Civil War.\n\nDuring the first few months of the League's existence, it proved important that Howell's role was a full-time one that was paid for by a few wealthy supporters. This enabled him to concentrate on marketing the League in newspapers and communicating announcements of the Reform League's Executive Committee. This helped recruit supporters. New branches were rapidly opened in both London and the provinces. During its first year the League received donations of £621, of which £476 came from rich Radicals such as P.A. Taylor MP, Samuel Morley MP and Sir Wilfred Lawson MP.\n\nThe Liberals remained in power after the 1865 election.\n\nSupport quickly grew for the League and meetings were held in pubs all over London. It provided left-wing leadership to a broader-based national movement that built up rapidly over the winter of 1865–6.\n\nWilliam Ewart Gladstone introduced a Reform Bill in March 1866. It was criticised on all quarters; some thought it went too far, others that it didn't go far enough.\n\nThree months later an amendment to the bill brought down the Russell-Gladstone government in June and the bill was dropped. Robert Lowe, 1st Viscount Sherbrooke a Liberal M.P., enraged the working class by describing them as \"impulsive, unreflecting, violent people\" guilty of \"venality, ignorance, drunkenness and intimidation\". \"Eight years in Australia and a visit to America had left him a convinced opponent of democracy.\" A succession of Tory Ministers further frustrated the working classes and the Reform League saw the chance to start major agitations which were to achieve pre-eminent national importance and put the Reform Union in the shade.\n\nDisappointed with the failure of the Bill, the Reform League, organised a series of demonstrations throughout the nation.The radical MPs John Bright and Charles Bradlaugh were prominent in these public meetings which attracted crowds in the hundred thousands. At one such meeting, in Trafalgar Square on 29 June 1866, speeches were made which refused support for any future Reform Bill which was not based on the League's programme. It was also declared that the advent of Tories to power was \"destructive to freedom at home and favourable to despotism abroad\". Red flags and the cap of liberty were sported by a march from Clerkenwell Green. Crowds cheered the Liberal Reform Club in Pall Mall and Gladstone's house in Carlton House Terrace and jeered loudly outside the Conservative Carlton Club.\n\nA second meeting on 2 July 1866 was even more heated, with rioting in the West End by a \"fortuitous concourse of the waifs and strays and roughs of a great city\".\n\nThe Trafalgar Square meetings were followed by a giant meeting held at Hyde Park on 23 July 1866. The Tory Home Secretary, Spencer Horatio Walpole declared it to be illegal, and issued a Police Notice, but the Reform League resolved to attempt to enter the Park and, if this failed, to move on to Trafalgar Square.\n\nThe procession started off from the Reform League's headquarters, at 8 Adelphi Terrace, headed by a cab containing the Reform League's president, Edmond Beales, his friend Colonel Dickson and a few other aristocratic supporters.\n\nThe procession was so vast that when the leading carriage reached Bond Street, the last had not yet left Holborn. When the procession reached Marble Arch they were confronted by a line of policemen and the park's gates were chained. 1600 constables, on foot and mounted, guarded Marble Arch alone. Barricades of omnibuses were on every side; the carriages of the wealthy blocked the way.A massive crowd assembled at the Arch and Beales attempted to enter the Park. The police prevented this amid scuffles. Three days of what are variously described as \"skirmishes\" or \"riots\" ensued.\n\nWhile arguing with the police, John Bedford Leno's friend, Humphreys, noticed that the railings would stand no pressure and began to sway them backwards and forwards. He was soon helped by the masses and the railings fell in what was to become known as the \"Hyde Park Railings Affair\". The people flooded into Hyde Park despite the efforts of the police to restrain them.\n\nSimultaneously, two other parts of the demonstration also broke into the park; one from Knightsbridge headed by Charles Bradlaugh, and another from Park Lane. In addition to the members of the procession, large numbers of bystanders, who were sympathetic to the cause, joined in the storming of Hyde Park and the police were overwhelmed \"like flies before a waiter's napkin\". It is estimated that 200,000 people invaded the park leading the police to call for military support. When the Horse Guards Blues arrived the crowds cried \"Three cheers for the Guards - the people's Guards!\". The soldiers held back and merely manoeuvred at a distance, despite the police commissioner, Sir Richard Mayne, and others being stoned by the mob.\n\nThe meeting proceeded as planned under the Reformer's Tree. At its end it was decided to hold another meeting the next evening in Trafalgar Square. John Bedford Leno and the leaders of the Reform League heard a rumour that the government was determined to crack down on the demonstrators and so decided to confront the Home Secretary, Walpole. They pointed out to him that if the police or military stepped in bloodshed would ensue. With tears in his eyes Walpole agreed that restraint was the best option. John Bedford Leno and George Odger went back to the crowds and announced the next evening's meeting at Trafalgar Square. As the sun set the crowds dispersed and the police and military held back, out of sight, and the meeting passed without undue violence.\n\nThe next evening's meeting at Trafalgar Square was chaired by John Bedford Leno and was also peaceful.\n\nThe \"Hyde Park Railings Affair\" was widely reported and made the Reform League's leaders household names. They were in hot demand to speak at public meetings and demonstrations across the country and saw a rapid increase in support of the Reform League.\n\nDuring the next few months the Reform League expanded its branches and demonstrations around the country. A notable success was achieved at the Birmingham Reform demonstrations on 28 Aug 1866 which allowed a Midland Department of the Reform League to be formed. This prospered and boasted almost 10,000 members and held great mass meetings at critical stages of the Reform campaign of 1867.\n\nThe Reform League thought it vital to embrace the more middle-class supporters of the Reform Union and were careful to avoid violence or illegitimate actions. Meetings were closely controlled with one reputedly having 10,000 stewards. They encouraged John Bright to speak at events as he was one of the Reform movement's intellectual leaders. Bright addressed meetings including Manchester (24 September), West Riding/Leeds (8 October), Glasgow (16 October) and Dublin (2 November).\n\nKeen to avoid scaring their new-found middle-class supporters the Reform League's London Executive decided to avoid holding meetings in central London for a while. On 3 December 1866 thousands of League supporters marched from Whitehall to the grounds of Beaufort House, Chiswick to hold a meeting. The march was made in a dispiriting downpour, but the fine discipline displayed by the rain-sodden men gave their leaders another claim to public attention. The next day it was reported in \"the Times\" that the working men had done enough to show they were earnest in their demand for enfranchisement and asked them to stop their disturbing actions and to wait for the reforms that the Parliament was now certain to make.\n\nIn the winter of 1866 discontent increased as cold gripped the nation with great East End distress, a growing Fenian problem in Ireland and amongst the Irish in English cities, Trade Union restlessness grew and a feverish international atmosphere followed Bismarck's foundation of an apparent democracy in the North German Confederation. The Reform League continued to campaign and soon found that it was supported by most of the British working-class.\n\nThe Reform League's leaders were determined not to make the mistake of easing off that they had made at the time of the Reform Bill 1866, and so continued demonstrating. On 11 February 1867, the very day the Tory government had fixed for the announcement of its reforms, the League arranged an impressive demonstration that started from Trafalgar Square and ended at a meeting at the Agricultural Hall in Islington. The procession included every sort of Trade Union and Reform League branch from all around the country, all carrying banners and accompanied by bands.\n\nThat evening a number of \"advanced Liberal\" MPs arrived fresh from a sitting at the House of Commons with news of how \"unsatisfactory\" the Tory government's proposals for reform were. This made the working men at the packed and excited meeting all the more determined not to give up the \"pressure from without\" until the Tory cabinet made much more generous proposals for reform.\n\nThe league now numbered one hundred branches in London alone and its deputations to Gladstone on 30 March 1867 and to Disraeli on 2 April 1867 were received with great attention.\n\nLord Shaftesbury's appeal to the Reform League to cancel a proposed Good Friday procession to Hyde Park, due to fear of a gigantic \"profanation\", was accepted by the League's leaders as they were concerned it might mobilise religious sentiment against them. This was a disappointment as the prospect of a procession on a bank holiday, like Good Friday, was an excellent opportunity to draw large crowds of workers who had the day off.\n\nAs pressure for reform built up nationally, the League decided to hold another Hyde Park meeting. The government banned it, saying it was illegal, but the League countered that the ban itself was illegal and posted posters to this effect on 1 May. The government backed down. Eventually 200,000 met at Hyde Park on 6 May and speeches were made on ten different platforms. The government planned to use violence, having sworn in large numbers of special constables on 4 May, but backed down at the last minute.\n\nWalpole subsequently resigned over the confusion of free speech in Hyde Park and it was never again questioned.\n\nGustave Paul Cluseret fled Ireland and arrived in London immediately after the Reform League's Trafalgar Square meeting. He met a dozen members of the Reform League, including John Bedford Leno, in a private room of the \"White Horse\" in Rathbone Place. He proposed that they create civil war in England and offered the service of two thousand sworn members of the Fenian body, and that he would act as their leader.\n\nJohn Bedford Leno was the first to reply and denounced the proposal, stating that it would surely lead to their \"discomfiture and transportation\", and added that the government would surely hear of the plot. During subsequent speeches Leno noticed that only a matchboard partition divided the room they occupied, with another adjoining room, and that voices could be heard on the other side. Leno declared his attention to leave at once, the others agreed, and the room was soon cleared. The next day the meeting was fully reported in \"The Times\", although Leno's speech had been attributed to George Odger, who had in fact supported Cluseret's proposal. Leno concluded that there had been a leak and that the traitor had been Robert Hartwell, the editor of \"The Bee-Hive\" journal.\n\nJohn Bedford Leno was fully satisfied with the success the Reform League had met and, being opposed to unnecessary violence, bitterly opposed the interference of Cluseret, as did most of the other members of the Reform League. Cluseret's \"call to arms\" was rejected and he left England for Paris to start his \"War of the Commune\".\n\nThe Reform League's campaigning culminated in the passing of the Reform Act 1867 which gave the vote to representatives of working class men for the first time.\n\nDespite a Reform Bill being on the Statute Book by mid-August, the League's leaders resolved that the organisation needed to be kept going to watch over the Scottish and Irish Representation Bills, whose enactment was reserved for 1868, and to forward Vote by Ballot and a wider county franchise.\n\nThey received support from John Bright, who hoped the League would be spurred on by its success and would continue to campaign for the ballot. Tories were alarmed at the prospect of two permanent bodies of agitation (the League and the Union) of a kind they had never known before.\n\nDemonstrations continued, culminating in the surprisingly successful \"working men's\" assembly of 11 Nov 1867 in Crystal Palace. However, the focus of the league started to recede once most \"respectable\" working men had received the householder or lodger vote. Years of demonstrations began to tire the workers and the thought of many more years of the same no longer held the same appeal.\n\nIn addition, the Sheffield Outrages and the Fenian \"martyrdoms\" took over as the main working class issues of the day. Notable events of this time include the \"funeral processions\" of 24 Nov 1867 and the \"Fenian Outrage\" at Clerkenwell Prison on 13 Dec 1867. Pro-Fenian indiscretions by some members of the Reform League, such as George Odger and James Finlen were seized by the Tory press as chances to scare the population that the Reform League would continue agitation indefinitely.\n\n\"Advanced Liberal\" politicians of respectability, who had worked with the League in 1866–7 and had tasted its power to cause reform, were determined not to let the League die at a time when they needed support against Conservative resistance to changes in Ireland. The very wealthy Samuel Morley gave the League £250 in November 1867, followed by £25 from P. A. Taylor and £20 from Abraham Walter Paulton in January 1868, £100 from Titus Salt in April 1868 and £100 from Thomas Thomasson in June 1868. However, Samuel Morley gave another donation of £1,900 which enabled the League to send out numerous \"deputations\" to boroughs where a useful Trade Union and working-class vote might be won for the \"advanced Liberalism\" of the General Election of Nov 1868. Their help was gratefully received and enough \"advanced Liberals\" were elected in Nov 1868 to cause the immediate resignation of Benjamin Disraeli's cabinet.\n\nAs reward for their help, Morley had also allowed some of his £1,900 to finance a number of the Reform League's leaders (e.g., Edmond Beales in Tower Hamlets, George Howell (aided by John Bedford Leno) in Aylesbury and William Randal Cremer in Warwick, etc.) to stand themselves in the election. None succeeded, mainly due to a lack of respectability and also due to a failure of negotiations to allow them to contest suitable constituencies.\n\nThe Reform League was dissolved in March 1869, and some of its members went on to become Liberal MPs or activists.\n\n"}
{"id": "457430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=457430", "title": "Roy Spencer (scientist)", "text": "Roy Spencer (scientist)\n\nRoy Warren Spencer (born December 20, 1955) is a meteorologist, a principal research scientist at the University of Alabama in Huntsville, and the U.S. Science Team leader for the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer (AMSR-E) on NASA's Aqua satellite. He has served as senior scientist for climate studies at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center.\n\nHe is known for his satellite-based temperature monitoring work, for which he was awarded the American Meteorological Society's Special Award.\n\nSpencer received a B.S. in atmospheric sciences from the University of Michigan in 1978 and his M.S. and Ph.D. in meteorology from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1980 and 1982. His doctoral thesis was titled, \"A case study of African wave structure and energetics during Atlantic transit\".\n\nAfter receiving his Ph.D. in 1982, Spencer worked for two years as a research scientist in the Space Science and Engineering Center at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. He then joined NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center as a visiting scientist in 1984, where he later became senior scientist for climate studies. After leaving NASA in 2001, Spencer has been a principal research scientist at the University of Alabama in Huntsville (UAH). As well as his position at UAH, Spencer is currently the U.S. Science Team leader for the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer (AMSR-E) on NASA's Aqua satellite, a position he has held since 1994.\n\nIn 2001, he designed an algorithm to detect tropical cyclones and estimate their maximum sustained wind speed using the Advanced Microwave Sounding Unit (AMSU).\n\nSpencer has been a member of several science teams: the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) Space Station Accommodations Analysis Study Team, Science Steering Group for TRMM, TOVS Pathfinder Working Group, NASA Headquarters Earth Science and Applications Advisory Subcommittee, and two National Research Council (NRC) study panels.\n\nHe is on the board of directors of the George C. Marshall Institute, and on the board of advisors of the Cornwall Alliance for the Stewardship of Creation.\n\nSpencer's research work is funded by NASA, NOAA, DOE, and the DOT as well as by Peabody Energy. \n\nIn 2007, Spencer and others published a paper in \"Geophysical Research Letters\" regarding negative cloud feedback in the tropics that potentially supports Richard Lindzen's Iris hypothesis, which proposes that as the tropical atmosphere warms, cirrus clouds decrease, allowing infrared heat to escape from the atmosphere to outer space. Spencer stated, \"To give an idea of how strong this enhanced cooling mechanism is, if it was operating on global warming, it would reduce estimates of future warming by over 75 percent. [...] Right now, all climate models predict that clouds will amplify warming. I'm betting that if the climate models' 'clouds' were made to behave the way we see these clouds behave in nature, it would substantially reduce the amount of climate change the models predict for the coming decades.\"\n\nIn 2008, Spencer and William Braswell published a paper in the \"Journal of Climate\" which suggests that natural variations in how clouds form could actually be causing temperature changes, rather than the other way around, and could also lead to overestimates of how sensitive the Earth's climate is to greenhouse gas emissions. Spencer stated, \"Our paper is an important step toward validating a gut instinct that many meteorologists like myself have had over the years, [...] that the climate system is dominated by stabilizing processes, rather than destabilizing processes – that is, negative feedback rather than positive feedback.\"\n\nIn 2011, Spencer and Braswell published a paper in \"Remote Sensing\" concluding that more energy is radiated back to space and released earlier than previously thought. Spencer stated, \"The satellite observations suggest there is much more energy lost to space during and after warming than the climate models show. There is a huge discrepancy between the data and the forecasts that is especially big over the oceans.\"\n\nThe paper was criticized by numerous climate scientists. Kerry Emanuel of MIT, said this work was cautious and limited mostly to pointing out problems with forecasting heat feedback.\n\nThe editor-in-chief of \"Remote Sensing\", Wolfgang Wagner, later resigned over publication of Spencer and Braswell (2011), stating, \"From a purely formal point of view, there were no errors with the review process. [...] the problem I see with the paper by Spencer and Braswell is not that it declared a minority view ...but that it essentially ignored the scientific arguments of its opponents. This latter point was missed in the review process, explaining why I perceive this paper to be fundamentally flawed and therefore wrongly accepted by the journal.\" Wagner added he, \"would also like to personally protest against how the authors and like-minded climate skeptics have much exaggerated the paper's conclusions in public statements\".\n\nAndrew Dessler later published a paper opposing the claims of Spencer and Braswell (2011) in \"Geophysical Research Letters\".\nHe stated, among other things:\n\nIn 2006 Spencer criticized Al Gore's documentary \"An Inconvenient Truth\", saying, \"For instance, Mr. Gore claims that the Earth is now warmer than it has been in thousands of years. Yet the latest National Academies of Science (NAS) report on the subject has now admitted that all we really know is that we are warmer now than we were during the last 400 years, which is mostly made up of the 'Little Ice Age'\".\n\nIn a \"New York Post\" opinion column on February 26, 2007, Spencer wrote: \n\nIn an interview with conservative talk show host Rush Limbaugh on February 28, 2007, Spencer stated that he didn't believe \"catastrophic manmade global warming\" was occurring. He also criticized climate models, saying \"The people that have built the climate models that predict global warming believe they have sufficient physics in those models to predict the future. I believe they don't. I believe the climate system, the weather as it is today in the real world shows a stability that they do not yet have in those climate models.\" Roy Spencer is also included in a film that argues against the theory of man-made global warming called \"The Great Global Warming Swindle.\"\n\nHe testified before the Waxman committee's examination of political interference with climate science on March 19, 2007.\n\nSpencer has published two books on climate change: In 2008, \"Climate Confusion: How Global Warming Hysteria Leads to Bad Science, Pandering Politicians and Misguided Policies that Hurt the Poor\", and in 2010, \"The Great Global Warming Blunder: How Mother Nature Fooled the World’s Top Climate Scientists\".\n\nSpencer is a signatory to \"An Evangelical Declaration on Global Warming\", which states that \"We believe Earth and its ecosystems—created by God’s intelligent design and infinite power and sustained by His faithful providence —are robust, resilient, self-regulating, and self-correcting, admirably suited for human flourishing, and displaying His glory. Earth’s climate system is no exception. Recent global warming is one of many natural cycles of warming and cooling in geologic history.\" He believes that most climate change is natural in origin, the result of long-term changes in the Earth's albedo and that anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions have caused some warming, but that its warming influence is small compared to natural, internal, chaotic fluctuations in global average cloud cover. This view contradicts the scientific consensus that \"most of the warming observed over the last 50 years is attributable to human activities\". Climatologist Patrick Michaels, also a self-professed skeptic of global warming, has defended Spencer, arguing that his religious beliefs have nothing to do with his climate change research.\n\nOn July 18, 2013 before U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer's Environment and Public Works committee, Spencer suggested the hearing title could easily be renamed \"Climate Change, It's Happened Before\" rather than the actual title, \"Climate Change, It's Happening Now\". He added “The last 2000 years of proxy reconstructed temperature variations for the Northern Hemisphere shows that the Modern Warm Period (today) is not significantly different from the Medieval Warm Period of ~1000 years ago, or the Roman Warm Period of ~2000 years ago.\" \n\nIn February 2014 Spencer posted on his blog that he was going to start referring to those who referred to those questioning the mainstream view of global warming (such as Spencer himself) as \"climate change deniers\" as \"global warming Nazis\", contending that \"...these people are supporting policies that will kill far more people than the Nazis ever did.\" The Anti-Defamation League responded with a statement condemning Spencer's comparison. Shelley Rose, the ADL's Southeast Interim Regional Director, argued that the comparison of global warming advocates to Nazis was \"outrageous and deeply offensive,\" and \"This analogy is just the latest example of a troubling epidemic of comparisons to Hitler and the Holocaust.\" In reply, Spencer asked whether the ADL was being hypocritical. Spencer quoted syndicated columnist Ellen Goodman's famous statement that \"global warming deniers are now on a par with Holocaust deniers,\" and said that the ADL should condemn that use of \"denier.\" Spencer was defended by Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow adjunct policy analyst Alan Caruba, who wrote that \"Dr. Spencer’s decision to call a Nazi a Nazi ignited a lot of discussion among the global warming hustlers and those whom they have been calling “deniers” for many years.\"\n\nIn \"TCS Daily\", Spencer wrote, \"Twenty years ago, as a PhD scientist, I intensely studied the evolution versus intelligent design controversy for about two years. And finally, despite my previous acceptance of evolutionary theory as 'fact,' I came to the realization that intelligent design, as a theory of origins, is no more religious, and no less scientific, than evolutionism. In the scientific community, I am not alone. There are many fine books out there on the subject. Curiously, most of the books are written by scientists who lost faith in evolution as adults, after they learned how to apply the analytical tools they were taught in college.\" \n\nIn the book \"The Evolution Crisis\", Spencer wrote, \"I finally became convinced that the theory of creation actually had a much better scientific basis than the theory of evolution, for the creation model was actually better able to explain the physical and biological complexity in the world. [...] Science has startled us with its many discoveries and advances, but it has hit a brick wall in its attempt to rid itself of the need for a creator and designer.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52246004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52246004", "title": "Sentient Vision Systems", "text": "Sentient Vision Systems\n\nSentient Vision Systems is an Australian company headquartered in Port Melbourne, that produces automated object detection solutions for video from aircraft and surface sensors used for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR), search and rescue, and law enforcement . Sentient’s solutions use computer vision software to detect and track objects of interest in full motion video (FMV), both electro-optic (EO) and infrared (IR) for land and maritime environments. Sentient Vision Systems is a private company.\n\nSentient Vision Systems was founded by Dr Paul Boxer in 2004 to develop computer vision solutions with a focus on moving target indication (MTI) in video. In 2006, Australia’s Defence Science and Technology Organisation (DSTO) awarded Sentient a Capability and Technology Demonstrator (CTD) program which supported development and demonstration of the Kestrel Land MTI solution. A CTD extension and then support from Commercialisation Australia enabled further development and commercialisation, including Kestrel Maritime, an object detection solution for maritime environments. Kestrel has been integrated on a range of manned and unmanned aircraft including the Wasp, Raven and Puma UAS's, US Navy Firescout, P3 Orion, NPAS EC135 and RAAF Heron.\n\nSentient’s most recent solution, ViDAR (Visual Detection and Ranging), was launched in 2015. ViDAR provides visual wide area search capability acting as an optical radar. ViDAR has been deployed with the Royal Australian Navy (RAN) on a ScanEagle UAS and is in service with the Australian Maritime Safety Authority (AMSA) for search and rescue.\n\nIn 2016, Australia’s Defence Minister, Christopher Pyne MP, congratulated Sentient for deployment of over 1,000 Kestrel systems worldwide. Sentient was also referenced in the Australian Governments 2016 Defence Industry Policy Statement\n\nIn June 2017, The Australian government announced a $100m contract to supply the Army with Wasp AE small UAV's including Sentient's Kestrel.\n\n"}
{"id": "12073594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12073594", "title": "Sisyphism", "text": "Sisyphism\n\nSisyphism is a term used by French classical liberal theorist, political economist, and member of the French assembly, Frédéric Bastiat to ridicule those that think that greater productivity causes poverty by increasing unemployment. The term derives form Sisyphus, the mythological king of Ephyra, punished for chronic deceitfulness by being compelled to roll an immense boulder up a hill, only to watch it roll back down, and to repeat this action forever.\n"}
{"id": "34226704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34226704", "title": "South African Indian Council", "text": "South African Indian Council\n\nThe South African Indian Council was a body created by the apartheid-era South African government in 1968 to make recommendations to the government about matters affecting Indians. It was the first time that Indians were granted any sort of representation at the national level. Nonetheless, it was widely rejected by South African Indians (in the 1981 election for example, only 6% of them voted). \n\nIn 1974, it was reconstituted as a body where 50% of the members were elected by Indians. \n\nAmichand Rajbansi's National People's Party dominated the council, as it did the later House of Delegates in the Tricameral Parliament, although neither body enjoyed the support of the majority of Indians. \n"}
{"id": "53082816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53082816", "title": "Teresa Fraga", "text": "Teresa Fraga\n\nTeresa Fraga is a Mexican-born teacher, community organizer, and activist in Pilsen, Chicago. She is an executive board member and the treasurer of Pilsen Neighbors Community Council (PNCC), and the co-chair of the Pilsen Planning Committee.\n\nTeresa Fraga was born in a tent near a construction project in Zacatecas, Mexico, around 1943. She moved to the United States with her family when she was seven years old. Fraga worked as a migrant farm worker around the United States, then moved to Chicago with her husband, Refugio, and children in 1966. They settled in the Pilsen neighborhood, and bought a home there in 1981.\n\nRaising six children, Fraga was concerned with crime, drugs, and inadequate schools in Pilsen. In the 1970s, Fraga got involved with local education and community organizing. She got involved with the construction of Benito Juarez High School, and served as President of the Jungman Local School Council from 1975-1977. She ran and was elected president of the Pilsen Neighbors Community Council (PNCC) in 1977, at age 33. She was president of the PNCC for seven years, until she stepped down in May 1982. She was also president of the Cooper Upper Cycle School Council from 1981-1983. Next, Fraga was president of the United Neighborhood Organization from 1986 to 1990. During this period of heavy community involvement, Fraga earned her G.E.D. and Bachelor's degree and worked as a teacher at José Clemente Orozco Academy. She was president of the PNCC again in 1989 and 1990. She was appointed to the board of trustees of the City Colleges of Chicago by Mayor Daley in 1990. Fraga ran for Alderman of the 25th Ward in 1995 and 1997.\n\nIn addition to contributing to the funding and establishment of Benito Juarez High School, Fraga has had other major impacts in the Pilsen community. She pushed for a $26 million, five-year sidewalk repair program, and worked for newer and better parks in Pilsen. Fraga has worked for the past 20 years on a project to develop a paseo, or multi-purpose path, between Pilsen and Little Village, Chicago. Since the 1990s, Fraga has contended with gentrification in Pilsen, working to keep housing prices, property taxes, and utility costs manageable for lower income residents of Pilsen.\n\nDePaul University Special Collections and Archives holds the \"Teresa Fraga Papers\", a collection of materials documenting Fraga's public life and activities with community organizations.\n\nFraga and her family have been the subject of two documentaries, each airing on WTTW in Chicago: \"Pilsen: Point of Entry\" and \"The More Things Change,\" part of the \"Inside Housing\" series. Fraga is also featured in a 2002 textbook, \"Reading Adventures\", from Pearson Education, in a section called \"Today's Immigrants.\"\n"}
{"id": "38306368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38306368", "title": "The Fifth Estate (film)", "text": "The Fifth Estate (film)\n\nThe Fifth Estate is a 2013 biographical thriller film directed by Bill Condon, about the news-leaking website WikiLeaks. The film stars Benedict Cumberbatch as its editor-in-chief and founder Julian Assange, and Daniel Brühl as its former spokesperson Daniel Domscheit-Berg. Anthony Mackie, David Thewlis, Alicia Vikander, Stanley Tucci, and Laura Linney are featured in supporting roles. The film's screenplay was written by Josh Singer based in-part on Domscheit-Berg's book \"Inside WikiLeaks: My Time with Julian Assange at the World's Most Dangerous Website\" (2011), as well as \"\" (2011) by British journalists David Leigh and Luke Harding. The film's name is a term used to describe the people who operate in the manner of journalists outside the normal constraints imposed on the mainstream media.\n\nCo-produced by DreamWorks Pictures and Participant Media, \"The Fifth Estate\" premiered at the 2013 Toronto International Film Festival, and was released in theaters by Touchstone Pictures in the United States on October 18, 2013, with international distribution divided among Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, Reliance Entertainment, and independent arrangements by Mister Smith Entertainment. The film performed poorly at the box office and garnered mixed critical reaction, receiving criticism for its screenplay and direction; the acting was praised, particularly Cumberbatch's performance.\n\nThe story opens in 2010, with the release of the Afghan War Logs. It then flashes back to 2007, where journalist Daniel Domscheit-Berg meets Australian computer hacker Julian Assange for the first time, at the Chaos Communication Congress in Berlin. Daniel's interest in online activism has led him to Assange, with whom he has corresponded by email. They begin working together on WikiLeaks, a website devoted to releasing information being withheld from the public while retaining anonymity for its sources. Their first major target is a private Swiss bank, Julius Baer, whose Cayman Islands branch has been engaged in illegal activities. Despite Baer's filing of a lawsuit and obtaining an injunction, the judge dissolves the injunction, allowing Julian and Daniel to reclaim the domain name. As their confidence increases, the two push forward in publishing information over the next three years, including secrets on Scientology, revealing Sarah Palin's email account, and the membership list of the British National Party.\n\nAt first Daniel enjoys changing the world, viewing WikiLeaks as a noble enterprise and Assange as a mentor. However, the relationship between the two becomes strained over time. Daniel loses his job and problems arise in his relationship, particularly concerning the BNP membership leak, which also revealed the addresses of the people involved, and caused several to lose their jobs. Assange openly mocks Daniel's concerns about these issues, implying his own life has been more troubling. Assange's abrasive manner and actions, such as abandoning Daniel at his parents' house after having accepted their dinner invitation, only deepen the strain further. Interspersed throughout the film are flashbacks hinting at Assange's troubled childhood and involvement in a suspicious cult, and that Assange's obsession with WikiLeaks has more to do with childhood trauma than wanting to improve the world. Daniel begins to fear that Assange may be closer to a con-man than a mentor. He also notices that Assange constantly gives different stories about why his hair is white. Assange at first tells Daniel that WikiLeaks has hundreds of workers, but Daniel later finds out that Daniel and Assange are the only members. Most importantly to Daniel, Assange frequently claims that protecting sources is the website's number one goal. However, Daniel begins to suspect that Assange only cares about protecting sources so people will come forward and that Assange does not actually care who gets hurt by the website, though Assange claims that the harm the website may cause is outweighed by good the leaks create. Daniel's girlfriend tells him that she believes in his cause, but that it's his job to prevent Assange from going too far.\n\nThe tensions come to a head when Bradley Manning (later known as Chelsea Manning) leaks hundreds of thousands of documents to WikiLeaks, including a video of an airstrike in Baghdad, the Afghan and Iraq War Logs, and 250,000 US Diplomatic Cables. Assange wants to leak the documents immediately, but Daniel insists that they review the documents first. Later, several major newspapers agree to cooperate with WikiLeaks in releasing the documents while spinning WikiLeaks positively. However, both Daniel and the newspapers require the names in the documents be redacted both to protect sources and to assist in the media spin, to which Assange reluctantly agrees. Daniel realizes that Assange has no intention of following through on this promise and is grooming a right-hand man to replace Daniel. The newspapers release the redacted documents. The resulting media and public uproar forces informants to flee from their countries of residence and many U.S. diplomats to resign. Before Assange can go further, however, Daniel and the other members of the original WikiLeaks team delete the site and block Assange's access to the server.\n\nDaniel later talks with a reporter from \"The Guardian\", and the two fear that giving Assange such a large platform was a mistake. The reporter tells Daniel that while Assange may be untrustworthy, he had done a good thing by uncovering secret dealing in the government and business world and attempting to protect sources. Daniel also reveals the real reason for Assange's hair colour—that it had been a custom of the cult he had been part of in Australia—and reports that he once accidentally discovered Assange dyeing it that colour.\n\nAs the film ends, it is revealed that WikiLeaks is continuing to leak information (with Assange implied to have either regained the site or rebuilt it), and the Manning documents were released with no redactions. Daniel has written a book on his involvement with the organization on which this film was based, and Assange has threatened to sue in retaliation. Assange is shown to be living in the Ecuadorian embassy in London to avoid arrest on an outstanding warrant for alleged sex crimes. In an interview, he denounces the two upcoming WikiLeaks films, stating that they will be factually inaccurate (having been partly based on Daniel's book). He informs the viewer that individuals are what the government is afraid of and claims that hiring Daniel was the one mistake he made.\n\n\nIt was reported in March 2011 that Steven Spielberg's DreamWorks Studios had acquired the rights of Domscheit-Berg's book \"Inside WikiLeaks: My Time with Julian Assange and the World's Most Dangerous Website\", as well as \"WikiLeaks: Inside Julian Assange's War on Secrecy\" by British journalists David Leigh and Luke Harding. Spielberg was quick to clarify that he is not involved in any way in the adaptation even though his DreamWorks company would produce the film. In July 2012, reports surfaced that Jeremy Renner was in talks of playing Julian Assange, and Bill Condon was in negotiations to direct. It was also announced that Josh Singer penned the screenplay. Later that year, \"Deadline Hollywood\" broke the news that Renner was out of the running and the studio was seeking Benedict Cumberbatch instead. Joel Kinnaman was also attached at some point, but reports were proven to be premature. The confirmation of Cumberbatch as the lead and Condon as the director also brought the news that James McAvoy was in talks to play Daniel Domscheit-Berg. McAvoy later dropped out because of scheduling conflicts and Daniel Brühl was eventually cast.\n\nIn December 2012, the film's title was reported as \"The Man Who Sold the World\" but with the official press release, it was confirmed that the film's title was actually \"The Fifth Estate\".\n\nPrincipal photography began on January 23, 2013, with Michael Sugar and Steve Golin of Anonymous Content serving as producers. During filming, Cumberbatch had to wear three different wigs, false teeth and blue contact lenses, in order to reflect Julian Assange's physical characteristics.\n\nThe film's title sequence, which depicts the history of news communication, took over a year to create.\n\nThe film was partially shot in Belgium, as can be seen in the movie poster, which contains the Liège-Guillemins railway station.\n\nOn January 24, 2013, Assange claimed during a presentation of the Sam Adams Award for Integrity in Intelligence—held at Oxford University—that he had read the screenplay of the film, describing it as a \"serious propaganda attack on WikiLeaks and the integrity of its staff\", as a \"lie built upon a lie\", and as \"fanning the flames for war on Iran\". The opening scene was inside a putative military complex in Iran and nuclear symbols could be seen. Birgitta Jónsdóttir told the WikiLeaks official Twitter account, \"the Iran scene has been written out, plus the name has been changed. Come with constructive ideas how to improve it\". Birgitta also tweeted that Assange does not possess the latest version of the script.\n\nAlthough Julian Assange has described the film as a \"massive propaganda attack\", he did discuss the film with Benedict Cumberbatch, with Cumberbatch claiming that he's \"personally supportive\" of the organization. Cumberbatch stated that, \"No matter how you cut it, he's done us a massive service, to wake us up to the zombielike way we absorb our news.\" Since Assange has been living inside the Ecuadorian embassy in London under diplomatic asylum, he and Cumberbatch reportedly communicated via email during filming.\n\nOn September 21, 2013, a script, allegedly the film's screenplay, was released by WikiLeaks, along with commentary labeling the film as \"fiction masquerading as fact\". Both Assange and WikiLeaks have stated that neither DreamWorks nor Disney approached them for any consultation on the film. Assange elaborated on the matter, \"I don't think we are in a situation anymore where an organization like DreamWorks or Disney can succinctly decide that it is going to produce a movie about living people, and living political refugees, and people who are embroiled in a grand jury proceeding in the United States, and just smear, without the cost.\"\n\nIn October 2013, WikiLeaks published a personal letter that Assange wrote to Cumberbatch in January of that year, in which he commended the actor's talent and good intentions, but requested him to reconsider his involvement with the film, which Assange negatively labeled as \"a project that vilifies and marginalises a living political refugee to the benefit of an entrenched, corrupt and dangerous state.\" WikiLeaks described Cumberbatch's reply to Assange as \"courteous and considered\". Cumberbatch also admitted his reservations with the early drafts of the film's script, believing that it portrayed Assange as an antagonistic person. In regard to his continued involvement with the film, Cumberbatch stated \"I wanted to create a three dimensional portrait of a man far more maligned in the tabloid press than he is in our film to remind people that he is not just the weird, white haired Australian dude wanted in Sweden, hiding in an embassy behind Harrods. But a true force to be reckoned with, achieved the realization of the great ideal.\" In an interview with George Stephanopoulos' show \"This Week\", Assange stated that \"Cumberbatch tried to ameliorate the script but unfortunately with limited success... though I'm pleased he tried.\"\n\nIn February 2014, Andrew O'Hagan, the ghostwriter of Assange's failed autobiography by Canongate, recalled the activist's reaction to the film in a lecture for the London Review of Books. He stated that Assange wanted him to be a consultant of the film and even suggested splitting his fee between the two of them.\n\nThe film's score was composed by Carter Burwell and its soundtrack was released by Lakeshore Records on October 8, 2013.\n\nWalt Disney Studios Motion Pictures distributed \"The Fifth Estate\" globally through its Touchstone Pictures label, except for territories in Europe, Africa and the Middle East, where the film's rights were sold by Mister Smith Entertainment to independent distributors, including Entertainment One Films in the United Kingdom. DreamWorks' financial partner, Reliance Entertainment, released the film in India.\n\nThe film opened the Toronto International Film Festival on September 5, 2013.\n\nTouchstone Home Entertainment released the film on Blu-ray and DVD on January 28, 2014.\n\n\"The Fifth Estate\" grossed $3.3 million in North America and $5.3 million in other territories for a worldwide total of $8.6 million, against a budget of $28 million.\n\nIn its opening weekend, the film came in eighth place with $1.7 million, one of the lowest openings for a DreamWorks release and the worst 2013 debut for a wide release in the United States. The film was a box office bomb in the United States, though according to Disney distribution chief Dave Hollis, the film performed best in major North American cities.\n\n\"The Fifth Estate\" received mixed reviews from film critics, although Cumberbatch's performance as Assange received praise. On the review aggregate website Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 37%, based on 170 reviews, with an average rating of 5.4/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"Heavy on detail and melodrama but missing the spark from its remarkable real-life inspiration, \"The Fifth Estate\" mostly serves as a middling showcase for Benedict Cumberbatch's remarkable talent.\" On Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating based on reviews, the film has a score of 49 out of 100, based on 42 critics, indicating \"mixed to average reviews\". It received an average grade of \"B\" from market-research firm CinemaScore.\n\n\"Variety\" wrote \"that it primarily hobbles itself by trying to cram in more context-needy material than any single drama should have to bear.\" \"The Hollywood Reporter\" compared the film unfavorably to \"The Social Network\", adding that \"Though it will attract attention at the box office, it is unlikely to appeal broadly to moviegoers who, one suspects, have never been as worked up about WikiLeaks as journalists and governments are.\" Tim Robey of \"The Daily Telegraph\" reciprocated the comparison, elaborating that, \"At times, this debt is so obvious that the movie's style feels second-hand: an overeager, slightly shop-worn bombardment of finger-on-the-pulse pop-out graphics, representing the giddy proliferation of voices in the misinformation age by simply filling the screen with text.\" Alan Scherstuhl of \"The Village Voice\" criticized the film for hewing \"so closely to template that it's easy to imagine that paperclip from Microsoft Word popping up on Condon's desktop one day to say, 'It looks like you're directing a techno-thriller. Would you like help?'\"\n\nOwen Gleiberman of \"Entertainment Weekly\" praised the film, describing it as \"a vintage journalism thriller, a nihilistic newspaper drama for the dark digital age.\" Peter Bradshaw of \"The Guardian\" gave a positive review, noting that the film \"sticks to the ancient movie tradition of depicting journalists as untamed, quasi-bohemian wild men, showing up late, gruff and unshaven in the office.\" Mark Kermode's reaction was mixed, praising the film's cast and cinematography, but disliking the direction, writing that \"\"The Fifth Estate\" feels strangely unfocused, uncertain of how to deal with its slippery enigma.\" \"Rolling Stone\"'s Peter Travers enjoyed the dynamic between Cumberbatch and Brühl, but disliked the focus of the film's subplot. Alan Rusbridger, who worked closely with Assange and is portrayed by Peter Capaldi in the film, describes Cumberbatch as \"stunning as Assange. The voice and the slightly jerky, stiff, awkward demeanour are just right.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4195988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4195988", "title": "Unemployment Provision Convention, 1934 (shelved)", "text": "Unemployment Provision Convention, 1934 (shelved)\n\nUnemployment Provision Convention, 1934 (shelved) is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1934, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to unemployment insurance and various forms of relief for the unemployed...\n\nThe concepts included in the convention were modified and subsequently included in Employment Promotion and Protection against Unemployment Convention, 1988.\n\nPrior to it being shelved, the convention was ratified by 14 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "41694533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41694533", "title": "United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund for Victims of Trafficking in Persons", "text": "United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund for Victims of Trafficking in Persons\n\nOn November 4, 2010, U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon launched the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund for Victims of Trafficking in Persons to provide humanitarian, legal and financial aid to victims of human trafficking with the aim of increasing the number of those rescued and supported, and broadening the extent of assistance they receive.\n\nThe Fund was established in accordance with resolution A/RES/64/293 Article 38 of the General Assembly on 12 August 2010 - United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons.\n\nTo ensure efficient, transparent, and accountable Fund administration and to support uniform and consolidated reporting, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) is designated as the Fund Manager for the Fund.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12481734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12481734", "title": "Voluntary Emission Reduction", "text": "Voluntary Emission Reduction\n\nVoluntary Emission Reductions or Verified Emission Reductions (VERs) are a type of carbon offset exchanged in the voluntary or over-the-counter market for carbon credits. Verified Emission Reductions are usually certified through a voluntary certification process.\n\nVerified Emission Reductions are usually created by projects which have been verified outside of the Kyoto Protocol. One VER is equivalent to 1 tonne of CO2e emissions. Through these schemes, industries and individuals voluntarily compensate for their emissions or provide an additional contribution to mitigating climate change.\n\nVERs may be developed and calculated in compliance with one of several VER standards. These set out rules defining how emission reductions are measured. Standards provide assurance for buyers of VERs. At a minimum, all VERs should be verified by an independent third party.\n\n"}
{"id": "33186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33186", "title": "Waffen-SS", "text": "Waffen-SS\n\nThe Waffen-SS (, Armed SS) was the armed wing of the Nazi Party's SS organisation. Its formations included men from Nazi Germany, along with volunteers and conscripts from both occupied and un-occupied lands.\n\nThe Waffen-SS grew from three regiments to over 38 divisions during World War II, and served alongside the \"Heer\" (regular army), \"Ordnungspolizei\" (uniformed police) and other security units. Originally, it was under the control of the \"SS Führungshauptamt\" (SS operational command office) beneath \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler. With the start of World War II, tactical control was exercised by the High Command of the Armed Forces (OKW), with some units being subordinated to \"Kommandostab Reichsführer-SS\" (Command Staff Reichsführer-SS) directly under Himmler's control.\n\nInitially, in keeping with the racial policy of Nazi Germany, membership was open only to people of Germanic origin (so-called Aryan ancestry). The rules were partially relaxed in 1940, and later the formation of units composed largely or solely of foreign volunteers and conscripts was authorised. These SS units were made up of men mainly from among the nationals of Nazi-occupied Europe. Despite relaxation of the rules, the Waffen-SS was still based on the racist ideology of Nazism, and ethnic Poles (who were viewed as subhumans) were barred specifically from the formations.\n\nMembers of the Waffen-SS were involved in numerous atrocities. At the post-war Nuremberg trials, the Waffen-SS was judged to be a criminal organisation due to its connection to the Nazi Party and direct involvement in numerous war crimes and crimes against humanity. Former Waffen-SS members were denied many of the rights afforded to military veterans. An exception was made for Waffen-SS conscripts, who were exempted because they were not volunteers. About a third of the total membership were conscripts.\nThe origins of the Waffen-SS can be traced back to the selection of a group of 120 SS men on 17 March 1933 by Sepp Dietrich to form the \"Sonderkommando\" Berlin. By November 1933 the formation had 800 men, and at a commemorative ceremony in Munich for the tenth anniversary of the failed Munich Putsch the regiment swore allegiance to Adolf Hitler. The oaths pledged were \"Pledging loyalty to him alone\" and \"Obedience unto death\". The formation was given the title \"Leibstandarte\" (Bodyguard Regiment) \"Adolf Hitler\" (LAH). On 13 April 1934, by order of Himmler, the regiment became known as the \"Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler\" (LSSAH).\n\nThe \"Leibstandarte\" demonstrated their loyalty to Hitler in 1934 during the \"Night of the Long Knives\", when the Nazi regime carried out a series of political killings and the purge of the \"Sturmabteilung\" (SA). Led by one of Hitler's oldest comrades, Ernst Röhm, the SA was seen as a threat by Hitler to his newly gained political power. Hitler also wanted to conciliate leaders of the \"Reichswehr\" (the Republic's army) and conservatives of the country, people whose support Hitler needed to solidify his position. When Hitler decided to act against the SA, the SS was put in charge of eliminating Röhm and the other high-ranking SA officers. The Night of the Long Knives occurred between 30 June and 2 July 1934 and saw the killing of up to 200 people. This included almost the entire SA leadership, effectively ending its power. This action was largely carried out by SS personnel (including the \"Leibstandarte\"), and the Gestapo.\n\nIn September 1934, Hitler authorised the formation of the military wing of the Nazi Party and approved the formation of the \"SS-Verfügungstruppe\" (SS-VT), a special service troop under Hitler's overall command. The SS-VT had to depend on the German Army for its supply of weapons and military training, and they had control of the recruiting system through local draft boards responsible for assigning conscripts to the different branches of the Wehrmacht to meet quotas set by the German High Command (Oberkommando der Wehrmacht or OKW in German). The SS was given the lowest priority for recruits.\n\nEven with the difficulties presented by the quota system, Heinrich Himmler formed two new SS regiments, the \"SS Germania\" and \"SS Deutschland\", which together with the \"Leibstandarte\" and a communications unit made up the SS-VT. At the same time Himmler established the SS-Junkerschule Bad Tölz and \"SS-Junkerschule Braunschweig\" for military training of SS officers. Both schools used regular army training methods and mainly used former army officers as instructors.\nIn 1934, Himmler set stringent requirements for recruits. They were to be German nationals who could prove their Aryan ancestry back to 1800, unmarried, and without a criminal record. A four-year commitment was required for the SS-VT and LSSAH. Recruits had to be between the ages of 17 and 23, at least tall ( for the LSSAH). Concentration camp guards had to make a one-year commitment, be between the ages of 16 and 23, and at least tall. All recruits were required to have 20/20 eyesight, no dental fillings, and to provide a medical certificate. By 1938, the height restrictions were relaxed, up to six dental fillings were permitted, and eyeglasses for astigmatism and mild vision correction were allowed. Once the war commenced, the physical requirements were no longer strictly enforced, and essentially any recruit who could pass a basic medical exam was considered for service. Members of the SS could be of any religion except Judaism (Jewish), but atheists were not allowed according to Himmler in 1937.\n\nHistorian Bernd Wegner found in his study of officers that a large majority of the senior officers corps of the Waffen-SS were from an upper-middle-class background and would have been considered for commissioning by traditional standards. Among later Waffen-SS generals, approximately six out of ten had a \"university entrance qualification (Abitur), and no less than one-fifth a university degree\".\n\nIn 1936, Himmler selected former Lieutenant General Paul Hausser to be Inspector of the SS-VT. Hausser worked to transform the SS-VT into a credible military force that was a match for the regular army.\n\nOn 17 August 1938, Hitler declared that the SS-VT would have a role in domestic as well as foreign affairs, which transformed this growing armed force into the rival that the army had feared. He decreed that service in the SS-VT qualified to fulfill military service obligations, although service in the \"SS-Totenkopfverbände\" (SS-TV) would not. Some units of the SS-TV would, in the case of war, be used as reserves for the SS-VT, which did not have its own reserves. For all its training, the SS-VT was untested in combat. In 1938, a battalion of the \"Leibstandarte\" was chosen to accompany the army troops in occupying Austria during the \"Anschluss\", and the three regiments of the SS-VT participated in the occupation of the Sudetenland that October. In both actions no resistance was met.\n\nRecruiting ethnic Germans from other countries began in April 1940, and units consisting of non-Germanic recruits were formed beginning in 1942. Non-Germanic units were not considered to be part of the SS, which still maintained its racial criteria, but rather were considered to be foreign nationals serving under the command of the SS. As a general rule, an \"SS Division\" was made up of Germans or other Germanic peoples, while a \"Division of the SS\" was made up of non-Germanic volunteers and conscripts.\n\nHimmler's military formations at the outbreak of the war comprised several subgroups that would become the basis of the Waffen-SS.\n\nIn August 1939, Hitler placed the \"Leibstandarte\" and the SS-VT under the operational control of the Army High Command (OKH). Himmler retained command of the \"Totenkopfstandarten\" for employment behind the advancing combat units in what were euphemistically called \"special tasks of a police nature\".\n\nIn spite of the swift military victory over Poland in September 1939, the regular army felt that the performance of the SS-VT left much to be desired; its units took unnecessary risks and had a higher casualty rate than the army. They also stated that the SS-VT was poorly trained and its officers unsuitable for combat command. As an example, OKW noted that the \"Leibstandarte\" had to be rescued by an army regiment after becoming surrounded at Pabianice by the Poles. In its defence, the SS insisted that it had been hampered by having to fight piecemeal instead of as one formation, and was improperly equipped by the army to carry out its objectives. Himmler insisted that the SS-VT should be allowed to fight in its own formations under its own commanders, while the OKW tried to have the SS-VT disbanded altogether. Hitler was unwilling to upset either the army or Himmler, and chose a third path. He ordered that the SS-VT form its own divisions but that the divisions would be under army command. Adolf Hitler resisted integrating the Waffen-SS into the army, as it was intended to remain the armed wing of the Party and to become an elite police force once the war was won.\n\nDuring the invasion, war crimes were committed against the Polish people. The \"Leibstandarte\" became notorious for torching villages without military justification. Members of the \"Leibstandarte\" also committed atrocities in numerous towns, including the murder of 50 Polish Jews in Błonie and the massacre of 200 civilians, including children, who were machine gunned in Złoczew. Shootings also took place in Bolesławiec, Torzeniec, Goworowo, Mława, and Włocławek. Eicke's SS-TV field forces were not military. \"Their military capabilities were employed instead in terrorizing the civilian population through acts that included hunting down straggling Polish soldiers, confiscating agricultural produce and livestock, and torturing and murdering large numbers of Polish political leaders, aristocrats, businessmen, priests, intellectuals, and Jews.\" His \"Totenkopfverbände\" troops were called on to carry out \"police and security measures\" in the rear areas. What these measures involved is demonstrated by the record of \"SS Totenkopf Standarte \"Brandenburg\"\". It arrived in Włocławek on 22 September 1939 and embarked on a four-day \"Jewish action\" that included the burning of synagogues and the execution en-masse of the leaders of the Jewish community. On 29 September the \"Standarte\" travelled to Bydgoszcz to conduct an \"intelligentsia action\".\n\nIn October 1939, the \"Deutschland\", \"Germania\", and \"Der Führer\" regiments were reorganised into the \"SS-Verfügungs-Division\". The \"Leibstandarte\" remained independent and was increased in strength to a reinforced motorised regiment. Hitler authorised the creation of two new divisions: the SS \"Totenkopf\" Division, formed from militarised \"Standarten\" of the \"SS-Totenkopfverbände\", and the Polizei Division, formed from members of the national police force. Almost overnight the force that the OKW had tried to disband had increased from 18,000 to over 100,000 men. Hitler next authorised the creation of four Motorized Artillery battalions in March 1940, one for each division and the \"Leibstandarte\". The OKW was supposed to supply these new battalions with artillery, but was reluctant to hand over guns from its own arsenal. The weapons arrived only slowly and, by the time of the Battle of France, only the \"Leibstandarte\" battalion was up to strength.\n\nThe three SS divisions and the \"Leibstandarte\" spent the winter of 1939 and the spring of 1940 training and preparing for the coming war in the west. In May, they moved to the front, and the \"Leibstandarte\" was attached to the Army's 227th Infantry Division. The \"Der Führer\" Regiment was detached from the SS-VT Division and attached to the 207th Infantry Division. The SS-VT Division minus \"Der Führer\" was concentrated near Münster awaiting the invasion of The Netherlands. The SS \"Totenkopf\" and Polizei Divisions were held in reserve.\n\nOn 10 May, the \"Leibstandarte\" overcame Dutch border guards to spearhead the German advance of X.Corps into the Netherlands, north of the rivers towards the Dutch Grebbe line and subsequently the Amsterdam region. The neighbouring \"Der Führer\" advanced towards the Grebbeline in the sector of the Grebbeberg with as a follow-up objective the city of Utrecht. The battle of the Grebbeberg lasted three days and took a toll on \"Der Führer\". On 11 May, the SS-VT Division crossed into the Netherlands south of the rivers and headed towards Breda. It fought a series of skirmishes before \"Germania\" advanced into the Dutch province of Zeeland on 14 May. The rest of the SS-VT Division joined the northern front against the forces in Antwerp. The \"Leibstandarte\" on the same day, entered Rotterdam. After the surrender of Rotterdam, the \"Leibstandarte\" left for the Hague, which they reached on 15 May, capturing 3,500 Dutch as prisoners of war.\n\nIn France, the SS \"Totenkopf\" was involved in the only Allied tank attack in the Battle of France. On 21 May, units of the 1st Army Tank Brigade, supported by the 50th (Northumbrian) Infantry Division, took part in the Battle of Arras. The SS \"Totenkopf\" was overrun, finding their standard anti-tank gun, the 3.7 cm PaK 36, was no match for the British Matilda tank.\n\nAfter the Dutch surrender, the \"Leibstandarte\" moved south to France on 24 May. Becoming part of the XIX Panzer Corps under the command of General Heinz Guderian, they took up a position 15 miles south west of Dunkirk along the line of the Aa Canal, facing the Allied defensive line near Watten. A patrol from the SS-VT Division crossed the canal at Saint-Venant, but was destroyed by British armour. A larger force from the SS-VT Division then crossed the canal and formed a bridgehead at Saint-Venant; 30 miles from Dunkirk. That night the OKW ordered the advance to halt, with the British Expeditionary Force trapped. The \"Leibstandarte\" paused for the night. However, on the following day, in defiance of Hitler's orders, Dietrich ordered his III Battalion to cross the canal and take the heights beyond, where British artillery observers were putting the regiment at risk. They assaulted the heights and drove the observers off. Instead of being censured for his act of defiance, Dietrich was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross. On that same day, British forces attacked Saint-Venant, forcing the SS-VT Division to retreat.\n\nOn 26 May, the German advance resumed. On 27 May, the \"Deutschland\" regiment of the SS-VT Division reached the allied defensive line on the Leie River at Merville. They forced a bridgehead across the river and waited for the SS \"Totenkopf\" Division to arrive to cover their flank. What arrived first was a unit of British tanks, which penetrated their position. The SS-VT managed to hold on against the British tank force, which got to within 15 feet of commander Felix Steiner's position. Only the arrival of the \"Totenkopf\" Panzerjäger platoon saved the \"Deutschland\" from being destroyed and their bridgehead lost.\n\nThat same day, as the SS \"Totenkopf\" Division advanced near Merville, they encountered stubborn resistance from British Army units, which slowed their advance. The SS \"Totenkopf\" 4 Company, then committed the Le Paradis massacre, where 97 captured men of the 2nd Battalion, Royal Norfolk Regiment were machine gunned after surrendering, with survivors finished off with bayonets. Two men survived.\n\nBy 28 May, the \"Leibstandarte\" had taken the village of Wormhout, only ten miles from Dunkirk. After their surrender, soldiers from the 2nd Battalion, Royal Warwickshire Regiment, along with some other units (including French soldiers), were taken to a barn in \"La Plaine au Bois\" near Wormhout and Esquelbecq. It was there that troops of the \"Leibstandarte\"'s 2nd Battalion committed the Wormhoudt massacre, where 80 British and French prisoners of war were killed.\n\nBy 30 May, the British were cornered at Dunkirk, and the SS divisions continued the advance into France. The \"Leibstandarte\" reached Saint-Étienne, 250 miles south of Paris, and had advanced further into France than any other unit. By the next day, the fighting was all but over. German forces arrived in Paris unopposed on 14 June and France formally surrendered on 25 June. Hitler expressed his pleasure with the performance of the \"Leibstandarte\" in the Netherlands and France, telling them, \"Henceforth it will be an honour for you, who bear my name, to lead every German attack.\"\n\nHimmler gained approval for the Waffen-SS to form its own high command, the \"Kommandoamt der Waffen-SS\" within the \"SS-Führungshauptamt\", which was created in August 1940. It received command of the SS-VT (the \"Leibstandarte\" and the \"Verfügungs-Division\", renamed \"Reich\") and the armed SS-TV regiments (the \"Totenkopf-Division\" together with several independent \"Totenkopf-Standarten\").\n\nIn 1940, SS chief of staff Gottlob Berger approached Himmler with a plan to recruit volunteers in the conquered territories from the ethnic German and Germanic populations. At first, Hitler had doubts about recruiting foreigners, but he was persuaded by Himmler and Berger. He gave approval for a new division to be formed from foreign nationals with German officers. By June 1940, Danish and Norwegian volunteers had formed the SS Regiment \"Nordland\", with Dutch and Flemish volunteers forming the SS Regiment \"Westland\". The two regiments, together with \"Germania\" (transferred from the \"Reich\" Division), formed the SS Division \"Wiking\". A sufficient number of volunteers came forward requiring the SS to open a new training camp just for foreign volunteers at Sennheim in Alsace-Lorraine.\nAt the beginning of the new year, the \"Polizei-Division\" was brought under FHA administration, although it would not be formally merged into the Waffen-SS until 1942. At the same time, the \"Totenkopf-Standarten\", aside from the three constituting the TK-Division, lost their Death's Head designation and insignia and were reclassified \"SS-Infanterie-\" (or \"Kavallerie-\") \"Regimente\". The 11th Rgt. was transferred into the \"Reich\" Division to replace \"Germania\"; the remainder were grouped into three independent brigades and a battle group in Norway.\n\nBy the spring of 1941, the Waffen-SS consisted of the equivalent of six or seven divisions: the \"Reich\", \"Totenkopf\", \"Polizei\", and \"Wiking\" Divisions and \"Kampfgruppe\" (later Division) \"Nord\", and the \"Leibstandarte\", 1 SS Infantry, 2 SS Infantry, and SS Cavalry Brigades.\n\nIn March 1941, a major Italian counterattack against Greek forces failed, and Germany came to the aid of its ally. Operation Marita began on 6 April 1941, with German troops invading Greece through Bulgaria and Yugoslavia in an effort to secure its southern flank.\n\n\"Reich\" was ordered to leave France and head for Romania, and the \"Leibstandarte\" was ordered to Bulgaria. The \"Leibstandarte\", attached to the XL Panzer Corps, advanced west then south from Bulgaria into the mountains, and by 9 April had reached Prilep in Yugoslavia, 30 miles from the Greek border. Further north the SS \"Reich\", with the XLI Panzer Corps, crossed the Romanian border and advanced on Belgrade, the Yugoslav capital. Fritz Klingenberg, a company commander in the \"Reich\", led his men into Belgrade, where a small group in the vanguard accepted the surrender of the city on 13 April. A few days later the Royal Yugoslav Army surrendered.\n\nThe \"Leibstandarte\" had now crossed into Greece, and on 10 April engaged the 6th Australian Division in the Battle of the Klidi Pass. For 48 hours they fought for control of the heights, often engaging in hand-to-hand combat, eventually gaining control with the capture of Height 997, which opened the pass and allowed the German Army to advance into the Greek interior. This victory gained praise from the OKW: in the order of the day they were commended for their \"unshakable offensive spirit\" and told that \"the present victory signifies for the \"Leibstandarte\" a new and imperishable page of honour in its history.\"\n\nThe \"Leibstandarte\" continued the advance on 13 May. When the Reconnaissance Battalion under the command of Kurt Meyer came under heavy fire from the Greek Army defending the Klisura Pass, they broke through the defenders and captured 1,000 prisoners of war at the cost of six dead and nine wounded. The next day, Meyer captured Kastoria and took another 11,000 prisoners of war. By 20 May, the \"Leibstandarte\" had cut off the retreating Greek Army at Metsovon and accepted the surrender of the Greek Epirus-Macedonian Army. As a reward, the \"Leibstandarte\" was nominally redesignated as a full motorised division, although few additional elements had been added by the start of the Russian campaign and the \"Division\" remained effectively a reinforced brigade.\n\nOperation Barbarossa, the German invasion of the Soviet Union, started on 22 June 1941, and all the Waffen-SS formations participated (including the SS \"Reich\", which was formally renamed to SS \"Das Reich\" by the Fall of 1941).\nSS Division \"Nord\", which was in northern Finland, took part in Operation Arctic Fox with the Finnish Army and fought at the battle of Salla, where against strong Soviet forces they suffered 300 killed and 400 wounded in the first two days of the invasion. Thick forests and heavy smoke from forest fires disoriented the troops and the division's units completely fell apart. By the end of 1941, \"Nord\" had suffered severe casualties. Over the winter of 1941–42 it received replacements from the general pool of Waffen-SS recruits, who were supposedly younger and better trained than the SS men of the original formation, which had been drawn largely from \"Totenkopfstandarten\" of Nazi concentration camp guards.\n\nThe rest of the Waffen-SS divisions and brigades fared better. The SS \"Totenkopf\" and Polizei divisions were attached to Army Group North, with the mission to advance through the Baltic states and on to Leningrad. The SS Division \"Das Reich\" was with Army Group Centre and headed towards Moscow. The SS Division \"Wiking\" and the \"Leibstandarte\" were with Army Group South, heading for the Ukraine and the city of Kiev.\n\nThe war in the Soviet Union proceeded well at first, but the cost to the Waffen-SS was extreme: by late October, the \"Leibstandarte\" was at half strength due to enemy action and dysentery that swept through the ranks. \"Das Reich\" lost 60% of its strength and was still to take part in the Battle of Moscow. The unit was decimated in the following Soviet offensive. The \"Der Führer\" Regiment was reduced to 35 men out of the 2,000 that had started the campaign in June. Altogether, the Waffen-SS had suffered 43,000 casualties.\n\nWhile the \"Leibstandarte\" and the SS divisions were fighting in the front line, behind the lines it was a different story. The 1 SS Infantry and 2 SS Infantry Brigades, which had been formed from surplus concentration camp guards of the SS-TV, and the SS Cavalry Brigade moved into the Soviet Union behind the advancing armies. At first, they fought Soviet partisans and cut off units of the Red Army in the rear of Army Group South, capturing 7,000 prisoners of war, but from mid-August 1941 until late 1942 they were assigned to the Reich Main Security Office headed by Reinhard Heydrich. The brigades were now used for rear area security and policing, and were no longer under army or Waffen-SS command. In the Autumn of 1941, they left the anti-partisan role to other units and actively took part in the Holocaust. While assisting the \"Einsatzgruppen\", they participated in the extermination of the Jewish population of the Soviet Union, forming firing parties when required. The three brigades were responsible for the murder of tens of thousands by the end of 1941.\nBecause it was more mobile and better able to carry out large-scale operations, the SS Cavalry Brigade had 2 regiments with a strength of 3500 men and played a pivotal role in the transition to the wholesale extermination of the Jewish population. In the summer of 1941, Himmler assigned Hermann Fegelein to be in charge of both regiments. On 19 July 1941, Himmler assigned Fegelein's regiments to the general command of HSSPF Erich von dem Bach-Zelewski for the \"systematic combing\" of the Pripyat swamps, an operation designed to round up and exterminate Jews, partisans, and civilians in that area of Byelorussian SSR.\n\nFegelein split the territory to be covered into two sections divided by the Pripyat River, with the 1st Regiment taking the northern half and the 2nd Regiment the south. The regiments worked their way from east to west through their assigned territory, and filed daily reports on the number of people killed and taken prisoner. By 1 August, SS Cavalry Regiment 1 under the command of Gustav Lombard was responsible for the death of 800 people; by 6 August, this total had reached 3,000 \"Jews and partisans\". Throughout the following weeks, personnel of SS Cavalry Regiment 1 under Lombard's command murdered an estimated 11,000 Jews and more than 400 dispersed soldiers of the Red Army. Thus Fegelein's units were among the first in the Holocaust to wipe out entire Jewish communities. Fegelein's final operational report dated 18 September 1941, states that they killed 14,178 Jews, 1,001 partisans, 699 Red Army soldiers, with 830 prisoners taken and losses of 17 dead, 36 wounded, and 3 missing. Historian Henning Pieper estimates the actual number of Jews killed was closer to 23,700.\n\nIn 1942, the Waffen-SS was further expanded and a new division was entered on the rolls in March. By the second half of 1942, an increasing number of foreigners, many of whom were not volunteers, began entering the ranks. The 7th SS Volunteer Mountain Division \"Prinz Eugen\" was recruited from Volksdeutsche (ethnic Germans) drafted under threat of punishment by the local German leadership from Croatia, Serbia, Hungary, and Romania and used for anti-partisan operations in the Balkans. Himmler approved the introduction of formal compulsory service for the Volksdeutsche in German occupied Serbia. Another new division was formed at the same time, when the SS Cavalry Brigade was used as the cadre in the formation of the 8th SS Cavalry Division \"Florian Geyer\".\n\nThe front line divisions of the Waffen-SS that had suffered losses through the winter of 1941–1942 and during the Soviet counter-offensive were withdrawn to France to recover and be reformed as Panzergrenadier divisions. Due to the efforts of Himmler and \"Obergruppenführer\" Paul Hausser, the new commander of the SS Panzer Corps, the three SS Panzergrenadier divisions \"Leibstandarte\", \"Das Reich\", and \"Totenkopf\" were to be formed with a full regiment of tanks rather than only a battalion. This meant that the SS Panzergrenadier divisions were full-strength Panzer divisions in all but name. They each received nine Tiger tanks, which were formed into the heavy panzer companies.\n\nThe Soviet offensive of January 1942 trapped a number of German divisions in the Demyansk Pocket between February and April 1942; the 3rd SS \"Totenkopf\" was one of the divisions encircled by the Red Army. The Red Army liberated Demyansk on 1 March 1943 with the retreat of the German troops. \"For his excellence in command and the particularly fierce fighting of the \"Totenkopf\"\", \"Obergruppenführer\" Theodor Eicke was awarded the Oak Leaves to the Knight's Cross on 20 May 1942.\n\nThe Waffen-SS expanded further in 1943: in February the 9th SS Panzer Division \"Hohenstaufen\" and its sister division, the 10th SS Panzer Division \"Frundsberg\", were formed in France. They were followed in July by the 11th SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Division \"Nordland\" created from Norwegian and Danish volunteers. September saw the formation of the 12th SS Panzer Division \"Hitlerjugend\" using volunteers from the Hitler Youth. Himmler and Berger successfully appealed to Hitler to form a Bosnian Muslim division, and the 13th Waffen Mountain Division of the SS Handschar (1st Croatian), the first non-Germanic division, was formed, to fight Josip Broz Tito's Yugoslav Partisans. This was followed by the 14th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Galician) formed from volunteers from Galicia in western Ukraine. The 15th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Latvian) was created in 1943, using compulsory military service in the Ostland. The final new 1943 division was the 16th SS Panzergrenadier Division \"Reichsführer-SS\", which was created using the \"Sturmbrigade Reichsführer SS\" as a cadre. By the end of the year, the Waffen-SS had increased in size from eight divisions and some brigades to 16 divisions. By 1943 the Waffen-SS could not longer claim to be an \"elite\" fighting force. Recruitment and conscription based on \"numerical over qualitative expansion\" took place, with many of the \"foreign\" units being good for only rear-guard duty.\n\nOn the Eastern Front, the Germans suffered a devastating defeat when the 6th Army was defeated during the Battle of Stalingrad. Hitler ordered the SS Panzer Corps back to the Eastern Front for a counter-attack with the city of Kharkiv as its objective. The SS Panzer Corps was in full retreat on 19 February, having been attacked by the Soviet 6th Army, when they received the order to counter-attack. Disobeying Hitler's order to \"stand fast and fight to the death\", Hausser withdrew in front of the Red Army. During Manstein's counteroffensive, the SS Panzer Corps, without support from the Luftwaffe or neighbouring German formations, broke through the Soviet line and advanced on Kharkov. Despite orders to encircle Kharkov from the north, the SS Panzer Corps directly attacked in the Third Battle of Kharkov on 11 March. This led to four days of house-to-house fighting before Kharkov was recaptured by the SS Division Leibstandarte on 15 March. Two days later, the German forces recaptured Belgorod, creating the salient that, in July 1943, led to the Battle of Kursk. The German offensive cost the Red Army an estimated 70,000 casualties but the house-to-house fighting in Kharkov was particularly bloody for the SS Panzer Corps, which lost approximately 44% of its strength by the time operations ended in late March.\n\nThe Warsaw Ghetto Uprising was a Jewish insurgency that arose within the Warsaw Ghetto from 19 April to 16 May, an effort to prevent the transportation of the remaining population of the ghetto to Treblinka extermination camp. Units involved from the Waffen-SS were 821 Waffen-SS Panzergrenadiers from five reserve and training battalions and one cavalry reserve and training battalion.\n\nFor the Battle of Kursk, the SS Panzer Corps was renamed the II SS Panzer Corps and was part of the 4th Panzer Army. The II SS Panzer Corps spearheaded the attack through the Soviet defences. The attack penetrated to a depth of and was then stopped by the Soviet 1st Tank Army.\n\nThe Soviet reserves had been sent south to defend against a German attack by the III Panzer Corps. With the loss of their reserves, any hope they may have had of dealing a major defeat to the SS Panzer Corps ended. But the German advances now failed – despite appalling losses, the Soviet tank armies held the line and prevented the II SS Panzer Corps from making the expected breakthrough.\nThe failure to break through the Soviet tactical zone and the need to break off the assault by the German 9th Army on the northern shoulder of the Kursk salient due to Operation Kutuzov contributed to Hitler's decision to halt the offensive. A parallel attack by the Red Army against the new 6th Army on the Mius river south of Kharkov necessitated the withdrawal of reserve forces held to exploit any success on the southern shoulder of Kursk. The OKW also had to draw on some German troops from the Eastern Front to bolster the Mediterranean theatre following the Anglo-American Invasion of Sicily. On 17 July, Hitler called off the operation and ordered a withdrawal. The Soviet Union was not beaten, and the strategic initiative had swung to the Red Army. The Germans were forced onto the defensive as the Red Army began the liberation of Western Russia.\n\nThe \"Leibstandarte\" was thereafter sent to Italy to help stabilise the situation there following the deposal of Benito Mussolini by the Badoglio government and the Allied invasion of Sicily, which was the beginning of the Italian Campaign. The division left behind its armour and equipment, which was given to \"Das Reich\" and \"Totenkopf\". After the Italian surrender and collapse of 8 September 1943, the \"Leibstandarte\" was ordered to begin disarming nearby Italian units. It also had the task of guarding vital road and rail junctions in the north of Italy and was involved in several skirmishes with partisans. This went smoothly, with the exception of a brief skirmish with Italian troops stationed in Parma on 9 September. By 19 September, all Italian forces in the Po River plain had been disarmed, but the OKW received reports that elements of the Italian Fourth Army were regrouping in Piedmont, near the French border. Joachim Peiper's mechanised III Battalion, SS Panzergrenadier Regiment 2, was sent to disarm these units. On arriving in the province of Cuneo, Peiper was met by an Italian officer who warned that his forces would attack unless Peiper's unit vacated the province immediately. After Peiper refused, the Italians attacked. Peiper's battalion defeated the Italians, and subsequently shelled and burnt down the village of Boves, killing at least 34 civilians. Peiper's battalion then disarmed the remaining Italian forces in the area.\n\nWhile the \"Leibstandarte\" was operating in the north, the 16 SS \"Reichsführer\"-SS sent a small battlegroup to contain the Anzio landings in January 1944. In March, the bulk of the 1st Italienische Freiwilligen Sturmbrigade (or \"Brigata d'Assalto, Volontari\" in Italian) was sent to the Anzio beachhead, where they fought alongside their German allies, receiving favourable reports and taking heavy losses. In recognition of their performance, Himmler declared the unit to be fully integrated into the Waffen-SS.\n\nThe Waffen-SS expanded again during 1944. January saw the formation of the 19th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (2nd Latvian), formed from the two SS Infantry Brigades as cadre with Latvian conscripts. The 20th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Estonian) was formed via general conscription in February 1944, around a cadre from the 3 Estonian SS Volunteer Brigade. The 21st Waffen Mountain Division of the SS Skanderbeg (1st Albanian) was formed in March 1944 from Albanian and Kosovan volunteers, which as with other \"eastern formations\" were intended for use against \"irregular forces\". A second Waffen-SS cavalry division followed in April 1944, the 22nd SS Volunteer Cavalry Division \"Maria Theresia\". The bulk of the troops were Hungarian Army Volksdeutsche conscripts transferred to the Waffen-SS following an agreement between Germany and Hungary. The 23rd SS Volunteer Panzer Grenadier Division \"Nederland\" followed, formed from the 4th SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Brigade Nederland, but it was never more than a large brigade. The 24th Waffen Mountain Division of the SS Karstjäger was another division that was never more than brigade size, consisting mainly of ethnic German volunteers from Italy and Yugoslavia, along with volunteers from Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, and Ukraine. They were primarily involved in fighting partisans in the Kras region of the Alps on the frontiers of Slovenia, Italy, and Austria, the mountainous terrain requiring specialised mountain troops and equipment. Two Hungarian divisions followed: the 25th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS Hunyadi (1st Hungarian) and the 26th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (2nd Hungarian). These were formed under the authority of the Hungarian defence minister, at the request of Himmler. One regiment from the Hungarian Army was ordered to join, but they mostly consisted of Hungarian and Romanian volunteers.\nThe SS Division Langemarck was formed next in October 1944, from Flemish volunteers added to the 6th SS Volunteer Sturmbrigade Langemarck, but again it was nothing more than a large brigade. The 5th SS Volunteer Sturmbrigade Wallonien was also upgraded to the SS Division Wallonien, but it too was never more than a large brigade. Plans to convert the Kaminnski Brigade into the 29th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS RONA (1st Russian) were dropped after the execution of their commander, Bronislav Kaminski; instead the Waffen Grenadier Brigade of SS (Italian no. 1) became the 29th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Italian). The 30th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (2nd Russian) was formed from the Schutzmannschaft-Brigade Siegling. The final new division of late 1944 was the 31st SS Volunteer Grenadier Division, formed from Hungarians and conscripted \"Volksdeutsche\".\n\nThe Korsun-Cherkassy Pocket was formed in January 1944 when units of the 8th Army withdrew to the Panther-Wotan Line, a defensive position along the Dnieper River in Ukraine. Two army corps were left holding a salient into the Soviet lines extending some . The Red Army's 1st and 2nd Ukrainian Fronts encircled the pocket. Trapped in the pocket were a total of six German divisions, including the 5 SS \"Wiking\", with the attached 5th SS Volunteer Sturmbrigade Wallonien, and the Estonian SS Battalion \"Narwa\". The Germans broke out in co-ordination with other German forces from the outside, including the 1 SS \"Leibstandarte\". Roughly two out of three encircled men successfully escaped the pocket.\n\nThe Raid on Drvar, codenamed \"Operation Rösselsprung\", was an attack by the Waffen-SS and Luftwaffe on the command structure of the Yugoslav partisans. Their objective was the elimination of the partisan-controlled Supreme Headquarters and the capture of Tito. The offensive took place in April and May 1944. The Waffen-SS units involved were the 500th SS Parachute Battalion and the 7 SS \"Prinz Eugen\".\n\nThe assault started when a small group parachuted into Drvar to secure landing grounds for the following glider force. The 500th SS Parachute Battalion fought their way to Tito's cave headquarters and exchanged heavy gunfire resulting in numerous casualties on both sides. By the time German forces had penetrated into the cave, Tito had already escaped. At the end of the battle, only 200 men of the 500th SS Parachute Battalion remained unwounded.\n\nIn Estonia, the Battle of Narva started in February. The battle can be divided into two phases: the Battle for Narva Bridgehead from February to July and the Battle of Tannenberg Line from July to September. A number of volunteer and conscript Waffen-SS units from Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Estonia fought in Narva. The units were all part of the III SS (Germanic) Panzer Corps in Army Group North, which consisted of the 11th SS Panzergrenadier Division \"Nordland\", the 4th SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Brigade \"Nederland\", the 5th SS Volunteer Sturmbrigade \"Wallonien\", the 6th SS Volunteer Sturmbrigade \"Langemarck\", and the conscript 20th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Estonian), under the command of \"Obergruppenführer\" Felix Steiner.\n\nAlso in Army Group North was the VI SS Corps, which consisted of the 15th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Latvian) and the 19th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (2nd Latvian). Latvian Waffen SS and German army units held out in the Courland Pocket until the end of the war.\n\nOperation Overlord, the Allied \"D-Day\" landings in Normandy, took place on 6 June 1944. In preparation for the expected landings, the I SS Panzer Corps \"Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler\" was moved to Septeuil to the west of Paris in April 1944. The Corps had the 1 SS \"Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler\", 12 SS \"Hitlerjugend\", the 17 SS \"Götz von Berlichingen\" and the Army's Panzer-Lehr-Division divisions assigned to it. The Corps was to form a part of General Leo Geyr von Schweppenburg's Panzer Group West, the Western theatre's armoured reserve. The Corps was restructured on 4 July 1944 and only the 1 SS \"Leibstandarte\" and the 12 SS \"Hitlerjugend\" remained on strength.\n\nAfter the landings, the first Waffen-SS unit in action was the 12 SS \"Hitlerjugend\", which arrived at the invasion front on 7 June, in the Caen area. The same day they committed the Ardenne Abbey massacre against Canadian army prisoners of war. The next unit to arrive was the 17 SS \"Götz von Berlichingen\" on 11 June, which came into contact with the 101st Airborne Division. The SS Heavy Panzer Battalion 101 arrived next to protect the left wing of the I SS Panzer Corps. The 1 SS \"Leibstandarte\" arrived towards the end of the month with lead elements becoming embroiled in the British offensive Operation Epsom.\n\nThe only other Waffen-SS unit in France at this time was the 2 SS \"Das Reich\", in Montauban, north of Toulouse. They were ordered north to the landing beaches and on 9 June were responsible for the Tulle massacre, where 99 men were murdered. The next day, they reached Oradour-sur-Glane where they massacred 642 French civilians.\n\nThe II SS Panzer Corps, consisting of the 9th SS \"Hohenstaufen\" and 10th SS \"Frundsberg\" divisions and the SS Heavy Panzer Battalion 102, was transferred from the Eastern Front to spearhead an offensive to destroy the Allied beachhead. However, the British launched Operation Epsom and the two divisions were fed piecemeal into the battle, and launched several counterattacks over the following days.\nWithout any further reinforcements in men or materiel, the Waffen-SS divisions could not stop the Allied advance. 1 SS \"Leibstandarte \" and 2 SS \"Das Reich\" took part in the failed Operation Lüttich in early August. The end came in mid August when the German Army was encircled and trapped in the Falaise pocket, including the 1 SS \"Leibstandarte\", 10 SS \"Frundsberg\" and 12 SS \"Hitlerjugend\" and the 17 SS \"Götz von Berlichingen\", while the 2 SS \"Das Reich\" and the 9 SS \"Hohenstaufen\" were ordered to attack Hill 262 from the outside in order to keep the gap open. By 22 August, the Falaise pocket had been closed, and all German forces west of the Allied lines were dead or in captivity. In the fighting around Hill 262 alone, casualties totalled 2,000 killed and 5,000 taken prisoner. The 12 SS \"Hitlerjugend\" had lost 94 per cent of its armour, nearly all of its artillery, and 70 per cent of its vehicles. The division had close to 20,000 men and 150 tanks before the campaign started, and was now reduced to 300 men and 10 tanks.\nWith the German Army in full retreat, two further Waffen-SS formations entered the battle in France, the SS Panzergrenadier Brigade 49 and the SS Panzergrenadier Brigade 51. Both had been formed in June 1944 from staff and students at the \"SS-Junkerschule\". They were stationed in Denmark to allow the garrison there to move into France, but were brought forward at the beginning of August to the area south and east of Paris. Both Brigades were tasked to hold crossings over the Seine River allowing the Army to retreat. Eventually, they were forced back and then withdrew, the surviving troops being incorporated into the 17 SS \"Götz von Berlichingen\".\n\nWhile the bulk of the Waffen-SS was now on the Eastern Front or in Normandy, the 4th SS \"Polizei\" Panzergrenadier Division was stationed in Greece on internal security duties and anti-partisan operations. On 10 June, they committed the Distomo massacre, when over a period of two hours they went door to door and massacred Greek civilians, reportedly in revenge for a Greek Resistance attack. In total, 218 men, women and children were killed. According to survivors, the SS forces \"bayoneted babies in their cribs, stabbed pregnant women, and beheaded the village priest.\"\n\nOn the Italian Front, the 16 SS \"Reichsführer-SS\", conducting anti-partisan operations, is remembered more for the atrocities it perpetrated than its fighting ability: it committed the Sant'Anna di Stazzema massacre in August 1944 and the Marzabotto massacre between September and October 1944.\n\nIn Finland, the 6 SS \"Nord\" had held its lines during the Soviet summer offensive until it was ordered to withdraw from Finland upon the conclusion of an armistice between Finland and the Soviet Union in September 1944. It then formed the rear guard for the three German corps withdrawing from Finland in Operation Birch, and from September to November 1944 marched 1,600 kilometres to Mo i Rana, Norway, where it entrained for the southern end of the country, crossing the Skagerrak to Denmark.\n\nIn early September 1944, the II SS Panzer Corps (9 SS \"Hohenstaufen\" and 10 SS \"Frundberg\") were pulled out of the line and sent to the Arnhem area in the Netherlands. Upon arrival, they began the task of refitting, and the majority of the remaining armoured vehicles were loaded onto trains in preparation for transport to repair depots in Germany. On Sunday 17 September 1944, the Allies launched Operation Market Garden, and the British 1st Airborne Division was dropped in Oosterbeek, to the west of Arnhem. Realizing the threat, Wilhelm Bittrich, commander of II SS Panzer Corps, ordered \"Hohenstaufen\" and \"Frundsberg\" to ready themselves for combat. Also in the area was the Training and Reserve Battalion, 16th SS Division \"Reichsführer-SS\". The Allied airborne operation was a failure, and Arnhem was not liberated until 14 April 1945.\n\nAt the other end of Europe, the Waffen-SS was dealing with the Warsaw Uprising. Between August and October 1944, the Dirlewanger Brigade (recruited from criminals and the mentally ill throughout Germany) and the S.S. Sturmbrigade R.O.N.A. \"Russkaya Osvoboditelnaya Narodnaya Armiya (Russian National Liberation Army)\", which was made up of ethnic Russian collaborators, were both sent to Warsaw to put down the uprising. During the battle, the \"Dirlewanger\" behaved atrociously, raping, looting, and killing citizens of Warsaw regardless of whether they belonged to the Polish resistance or not; the unit commander SS-\"Oberführer\" Oskar Dirlewanger encouraged their excesses. The unit's behaviour was reportedly so bestial and indiscriminate that Himmler was forced to send a battalion of SS military police to ensure the Dirlewanger convicts did not turn their aggressions against the leadership of the brigade or other nearby German units. At the same time, they were encouraged by Himmler to terrorise freely, take no prisoners, and generally indulge their perverse tendencies. Favoured tactics of the Dirlewanger men during the siege reportedly included the ubiquitous gang rape of female Poles, both women and children; playing \"bayonet catch\" with live babies; and torturing captives to death by hacking off their arms, dousing them with gasoline, and setting them alight to run armless and flaming down the street. The Dirlewanger brigade committed almost non-stop atrocities during this period, in particular the four-day Wola massacre.\nThe other unit, \"Waffen-Sturm-Brigade R.O.N.A.\", was tasked with clearing the Ochota district in Warsaw that was defended by members of the Polish Home Army. Their attack was planned for the morning of 5 August, but when the time came, the RONA unit could not be found; after some searching by the SS military police, members of the unit were found looting abandoned houses in the rear of the German column. Later, thousands of Polish civilians were killed by the RONA SS men during the events known as the Ochota massacre; many victims were also raped. In the following weeks, the RONA unit was moved south to the Wola district, but it fared no better in combat there than it did in Ochota; in one incident, a sub-unit of the RONA brigade advanced to loot a captured building on the front line, but was subsequently cut off from the rest of the SS formation and wiped out by the Poles. Following the fiasco, SS-\"Brigadeführer\" Bronislav Vladislavovich Kaminski, the unit's commander, was called to Łódź to attend a SS leadership conference. He never arrived; official Nazi sources blamed Polish partisans for an alleged ambush that killed the RONA commander. But, according to various other sources, he was arrested and tried by the SS, or simply shot on the spot by the Gestapo. The behaviour of the \"RONA\" during the battle was an embarrassment even to the SS, and the alleged rape and murder of two German Strength Through Joy girls may have played a part in the eventual execution of the brigade's commander.\n\nIn late August 1944, 5 SS \"Wiking\" was ordered back to Modlin on the Vistula River line near Warsaw, where it was to join the newly formed Army Group Vistula. Fighting alongside the Luftwaffe's Fallschirm-Panzer Division 1 \"Hermann Göring\", they annihilated the Soviet 3rd Tank Corps. The advent of the Warsaw Uprising brought the Soviet offensive to a halt, and relative peace fell on the front line. The division remained in the Modlin area for the rest of the year, grouped with the 3 SS \"Totenkopf\" in the IV SS Panzer Corps. Heavy defensive battles around Modlin followed for the rest of the year. Together, they helped force the Red Army out of Warsaw and back across the Vistula River, where the Front stabilised until January 1945.\n\nThe Ardennes Offensive or \"Battle of the Bulge\", between 16 December 1944 and 25 January 1945, was a major German offensive through the forested Ardennes Mountains region of Belgium. The Waffen-SS units included the 6th Panzer Army under Sepp Dietrich. Created on 26 October 1944, it incorporated the I SS Panzer Corps (1 SS \"Leibstandarte\", the 12 SS \"Hitlerjugend\" and the SS Heavy Panzer Battalion 101). It also had the II SS Panzer Corps (2 SS \"Das Reich\" and the 9 SS \"Hohenstaufen\"). Another unit involved was Otto Skorzeny's SS Panzer Brigade 150.\n\nThe purpose of the attack was to split the British and American line in half, capture Antwerp, and encircle and destroy four Allied armies, forcing the Western Allies to negotiate a peace treaty on terms favourable to the Axis Powers. However, advancing through the forests and wooded hills of the Ardennes proved difficult in the winter weather. Initially, the Germans made good progress in the northern end of its advance. However, they ran into unexpectedly strong resistance by the U.S. 2nd and 99th Infantry Divisions. By 23 December, weather conditions started improving, allowing the Allied air forces, which had been grounded, to attack. In increasingly difficult conditions, the German advance slowed. The attack was ultimately a failure. Despite the efforts of the Waffen-SS and the German Army, the fuel shortages, stiff American resistance, including in and around the town of Bastogne and Allied air-assaults on German supply columns proved too much, costing the Germans 700 tanks and most of their remaining mobile forces in the west. Hitler's failed counteroffensive had used most of Germany's remaining reserves of manpower and materiel, which could not be replaced.\nDuring the battle, \"Kampfgruppe\" Peiper, part of the 1 SS \"Leibstandarte\", left a path of destruction, which included Waffen-SS men murdering American POWs and unarmed Belgian civilians. It is infamous for the Malmedy massacre, in which approximately 90 unarmed American prisoners of war were murdered on 17 December 1944. Also during this battle, 3./SS-PzAA1 LSSAH captured and shot eleven African-American soldiers from the American 333rd Artillery Battalion in the hamlet of Wereth. Their remains were found by Allied troops two months later. The soldiers had their fingers cut off and legs broken, and one was shot while trying to bandage a comrade's wounds.\n\nIn late December 1944, the Axis forces, including IX Waffen Mountain Corps of the SS (Croatian), defending Budapest, were encircled in the Siege of Budapest. The IV SS Panzer Corps (3 SS \"Totenkopf\" and 5 SS \"Wiking\") was ordered south to join Hermann Balck's 6th Army (Army Group \"Balck\"), which was mustering for a relief effort code named Operation Konrad.\n\nAs a part of Operation Konrad I, the IV SS Panzer Corps was committed to action on 1 January 1945, near Tata, with the advance columns of \"Wiking\" slamming into the Soviet 4th Guards Army. A heavy battle ensued, with the 5 SS \"Wiking\" and 3 SS \"Totenkopf\" destroying many of the Soviet tanks. In three days their panzer spearheads had driven 45 kilometres, over half the distance from the start point to Budapest. The Red Army manoeuvred forces to block the advance, halting them at Bicske, from Budapest. Two further attacks, Operations Konrad II and III, also failed.\n\nThe Hungarian Third Army was besieged in Budapest along with the IX Waffen Mountain Corps of the SS (Croatian) (8 SS \"Florian Geyer\" and 22 SS \" Maria Theresia\"). The siege lasted from 29 December 1944 until the city surrendered unconditionally on 13 February 1945. Only 170 men of the 22 SS \" Maria Theresia\" made it back to the German lines.\n\nThe Waffen-SS continued to expand in 1945. January saw the 32nd SS Volunteer Grenadier Division \"30 Januar\" formed from the remnants of other units and staff from the SS-Junkerschules. In February, the Waffen-Grenadier-Brigade der SS \"Charlemagne\" was upgraded to a division and became known as the 33rd Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS \"Charlemagne\" (1st French). At this time, it had a strength of 7,340 men. The SS Volunteer Grenadier-Brigade Landstorm Nederland was upgraded to the 34th SS Volunteer Grenadier Division \"Landstorm Nederland\". The second SS Police division followed when the 35th SS and Police Grenadier Division was formed from SS Police units that had been transferred to the Waffen-SS. The Dirlewanger Brigade was reformed as the 36th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS. As there was now a real shortage of Waffen-SS volunteers and conscripts, units from the army were attached to bring it up to strength. The third SS Cavalry division 37th SS Volunteer Cavalry Division \"Lützow\" was formed from the remnants of the 8 SS \"Florian Geyer\" and 22 SS \"Maria Theresia\", which had both been virtually destroyed. The last Waffen-SS division was the 38th SS Division \"Nibelungen\", which was formed from students and staff from the \"SS-Junkerschule\", but consisted of only around 6,000 men, the strength of a normal brigade.\n\nThe XV SS Cossack Cavalry Corps, which contained the 1 SS Cossack Division, was transferred to the Waffen-SS on 1 February 1945. Despite the refusal of its commander, General von Pannwitz, to enter the SS, the corps was placed under SS administration and all Cossacks became formally part of the Waffen-SS.\n\nOperation Nordwind was the last major German offensive on the Western Front. It began on 1 January 1945 in Alsace and Lorraine in north-eastern France, and it ended on 25 January. The initial attack was conducted by three Corps of the 1st Army. By 15 January, at least 17 German divisions (including units in the Colmar Pocket) were engaged, including the XIII SS Army Corps (17 SS \"Götz von Berlichingen\" and 38 SS \"Nibelungen\") and the 6 SS \"Nord\" and 10 SS \"Frundsberg\". At the same time, the Luftwaffe mounted a large offensive over the skies of France. Some 240 fighters were lost and just as many pilots. It was the 'last gasp' attempt for the Luftwaffe to take back air supremacy from the western allies.\n\nOperation Solstice, or the \"Stargard Tank Battle\" (February 1945) was one of the last armoured offensive operations on the Eastern Front. It was a limited counter-attack by the three Corps of the Eleventh SS Panzer Army, which was being assembled in Pomerania, against the spearheads of the 1st Belorussian Front. Originally planned as a major offensive, it was executed as a more limited attack. It was repulsed by the Red Army, but helped to convince the Soviet High Command to postpone the planned attack on Berlin.\n\nInitially, the attack achieved a total surprise, reaching the banks of the Ina River and, on 17 January, Arnswalde. Strong Soviet counter-attacks halted the advance, and the operation was called off. The III (Germanic) SS Panzer Corps, was pulled back to the Stargard and Stettin on the northern Oder River.\n\nThe East Pomeranian Offensive lasted from 24 February to 4 April, in Pomerania and West Prussia. The Waffen-SS units involved were the 11 SS \"Nordland\", 20 SS \"Estonian\", 23 SS \"Nederland\", 27 SS \"Langemark\", 28 SS \"Wallonien\", all in the III (Germanic) SS Panzer Corps, and the X SS Corps, which did not command any SS units.\n\nIn March 1945, the X SS Corps was encircled by the 1st Guards Tank Army, 3rd Shock Army, and the Polish 1st Army in the area of Dramburg. This pocket was destroyed by the Red Army on 7 March 1945. On 8 March 1945, the Soviet forces announced the capture of General Krappe and 8,000 men of the X SS Corps.\n\nAfter the Ardennes offensive failed, in Hitler's estimation, the Nagykanizsa oilfields southwest of Lake Balaton were the most strategically valuable reserves on the Eastern Front. The SS Divisions were pulled out and refitted in Germany in preparation for Operation Spring Awakening (\"Frühlingserwachsen\"). Hitler ordered Dietrich's 6th SS Panzer Army to take the lead and move to Hungary in order to protect the oilfields and refineries there. The 6th SS Panzer Army was made up of the I SS Panzer Corps (1 SS \"Leibstandarte\" and 12 SS \"Hitlerjugend\") and the II SS Panzer Corps (2 SS \"Das Reich\" and the 10 SS \"Frundsberg\"). Also present but not part of the 6th SS Panzer Army was the IV SS Panzer Corps (3 SS \"Totenkopf\" and 5 SS \"Wiking\").\n\nThis final German offensive in the east began on 6 March. The German forces attacked near Lake Balaton with the Sixth SS Panzer Army advancing northwards towards Budapest and the 2nd Panzer Army moving eastwards and south. Dietrich's army made \"good progress\" at first, but as they drew near the Danube, the combination of the muddy terrain and strong resistance of the Soviet forces ground them to a halt. The overwhelming numerical superiority of the Red Army made any defence impossible, yet Hitler somehow had believed victory was attainable.\n\nAfter Operation Spring Awakening, the 6th SS Panzer Army withdrew towards Vienna and was involved what became known as the Vienna Offensive. The only major force to face the attacking Red Army was the II SS Panzer Corps (2 SS \"Das Reich\" and 3 SS \"Totenkopf\"), under the command of Wilhelm Bittrich, along with \"ad hoc\" forces made up of garrison and anti-aircraft units. Vienna fell to the Soviet forces on 13 April. Bittrich's II SS Panzer Corps had pulled out to the west that evening to avoid encirclement. The LSSAH retreated westward with less than 1,600 men and 16 tanks remaining.\n\nThis failure is famous for the \"armband order\" that followed. The order was issued to the Sixth SS Panzer Army commander Sepp Dietrich by Adolf Hitler, who claimed that the troops, and more importantly, the 1 SS \"Leibstandarte\", \"did not fight as the situation demanded\". As a mark of disgrace, the Waffen-SS units involved in the battle were ordered to remove their distinctive cuff titles. Dietrich did not relay the order to his troops.\n\nThe Army Group Vistula was formed in 1945 to protect Berlin from the advancing Red Army. It fought in the Battle of the Seelow Heights (16–19 April) and the Battle of Halbe (21 April – 1 May), both part of the Battle of Berlin. The Waffen-SS was represented by the III (Germanic) SS Panzer Corps.\n\nOn 23 April, \"Brigadeführer\" Wilhelm Mohnke was appointed by Hitler as Battle Commander for the centre government district (Zitadelle sector), which included the Reich Chancellery and \"Führerbunker\". Mohnke's command post was in the bunkers under the Reich Chancellery. He formed \"Kampfgruppe Mohnke\" (Battle Group Mohnke), divided into two weak regiments. It was made up of the LSSAH Flak Company, replacements from LSSAH Training and Reserve Battalion from Spreenhagan (under \"Standartenfuhrer\" Anhalt), 600 men from the \"Begleit-Bataillon Reichsführer-SS\", the Führer-Begleit-Company, and the core group—800 men of the LSSAH Guard Battalion assigned to guard the Führer.\n\nOn 23 April, the Reich Chancellery ordered \"Brigadeführer\" Gustav Krukenberg to proceed to Berlin with his men, who were reorganised as \"Sturmbataillon\" (\"assault battalion\") \"Charlemagne\". Between 320 and 330 French troops arrived in Berlin on 24 April after a long detour to avoid Soviet advance columns. Krukenberg was also appointed the commander of (Berlin) Defence Sector C. This included the \"Nordland\" Division, whose previous commander, Joachim Ziegler, was relieved of command the same day. On 27 April, after a futile defence, the remnants of \"Nordland\" were pushed back into the centre government district (Zitadelle sector) in Defence sector Z. There Krukenberg's \"Nordland\" headquarters was a carriage in the Stadtmitte U-Bahn station. The men of \"Nordland\" were now under Mohnke's overall command. Among the men were French, Latvian, and Scandinavian Waffen-SS troops.\n\nA heavy artillery bombardment of the centre government district had begun on 20 April 1945 and lasted until the end of hostilities. Under the intense shelling, the SS troops put up stiff resistance which led to bitter and bloody street fighting with the Soviet Red Army forces. By 26 April, the \"Nordland\" defenders were pushed back into the Reichstag and Reich Chancellery. There, over the next few days, the survivors (mainly French SS troops from the former 33 SS \"Charlemagne\") fought in vain against the Soviet army forces.\nOn 30 April, after receiving news of Hitler's suicide, orders were issued that those who could do so were to break out. Prior to the break-out, Mohnke briefed all commanders that could be reached within the Zitadelle sector about Hitler's death and the planned break-out. The break out started at 2300 hours on 1 May. There were ten main groups that attempted to head northwest towards Mecklenburg. Fierce fighting continued all around, especially in the Weidendammer Bridge area. What was left of the 11 SS \"Nordland\" under \"Brigadeführer\" Krukenberg fought hard in that area, but the Soviet artillery, anti-tank guns and tanks destroyed the groups. Several very small groups managed to reach the Americans at the Elbe's west bank, but most, including Mohnke's group, could not make it through the Soviet rings.\n\nAs for \"Reichsführer-SS\" Himmler, he attempted to go into hiding. Using a forged paybook under the name of Sergeant Heinrich Hitzinger, he fled south on 11 May to Friedrichskoog. On 21 May, Himmler and two aides were detained at a checkpoint set up by former Soviet POWs and then handed over to the British Army. On 23 May, after admitting his real identity, a doctor attempted to examine him. However, Himmler bit into a hidden cyanide pill and collapsed onto the floor. He was dead within 15 minutes.\n\n \nAll divisions in the Waffen-SS were ordered in a single series of numbers as formed, regardless of type. A total of 38 were formed, beginning with the initial three in 1933 and ramping up to nine alone in 1945. Those tagged with nationalities were at least nominally recruited from those nationalities. Many of the late-formed higher-numbered units were in fact small battlegroups (\"Kampfgruppen\"), and divisions in name only.\n\n\nMilitary historian Rüdiger Overmans estimates that the Waffen-SS suffered 314,000 dead. Casualty rates were not significantly higher than in the Wehrmacht overall and were comparative to those among the armoured divisions of the army and the Luftwaffe paratroop formations.\n\nThe \"Allgemeine SS\" was responsible for the administration of both the concentration and extermination camps. Many members of it and the \"SS-Totenkopfverbände\" subsequently became members of the Waffen-SS, forming the initial core of the 3rd SS \"Totenkopf\" Division. A number of SS medical personnel who were members of the Waffen-SS were convicted of crimes during the \"Doctors' trials\" in Nuremberg, held between 1946 and 1947 for the Nazi human experimentation they performed at the camps.\nAccording to the \"Modern Genocide: The Definitive Resource and Document Collection\", the Waffen-SS had played a \"paramount role\" in the ideological war of extermination (\"Vernichtungskrieg\"), and not just as frontline or rear area security formations: a third of the \"Einsatzgruppen\" (mobile killing squads) members which were responsible for mass murder, especially of Jews, Slavs and communists, had been recruited from Waffen-SS personnel prior to the invasion of the Soviet Union. The Waffen-SS construction office built the gas chambers at Auschwitz, and, according to Rudolf Hoss, about 7,000 served as guards at that camp.\n\nMany Waffen-SS members and units were responsible for war crimes against civilians and allied servicemen. After the war the SS organisation as a whole was held to be a criminal organisation by the post-war German government. Formations such as the \"Dirlewanger\" and Kaminski Brigades were singled out, and many others participated in large-scale massacres or smaller-scale killings such as murder of 34 captured allied servicemen ordered by Josef Kieffer during Operation Bulbasket in 1944, the Houtman affair, or murders perpetrated by Heinrich Boere. The listed Waffen-SS units were responsible for the following massacres:\n\n\n\nThe linking of the SS-VT with the \"SS-Totenkopfverbände\" (SS-TV) in 1938 raised important questions about Waffen-SS criminality, since the SS-TV were already responsible for the imprisonment, torture, and murder of Jews and other political opponents through providing the personnel for manning the concentration camps. Their leader, Theodor Eicke, who was the commandant of Dachau, inspector of the camps, and murderer of Ernst Röhm, later became the commander of the 3rd SS \"Totenkopf\" Division. With the invasion of Poland, the \"Totenkopfverbände\" troops were called on to carry out so-called \"police and security measures\" in rear areas. What these measures entailed is demonstrated by the record of \"SS Totenkopf Standarte Brandenburg\". It arrived in Włocławek on 22 September 1939 and embarked on a four-day \"Jewish action\" that included the burning of synagogues and the execution en masse of the leaders of the Jewish community. On 29 September the Standarte travelled to Bydgoszcz to conduct an \"intelligentsia action\". Approximately 800 Polish civilians and what the \"Sicherheitsdienst\" (SD) termed \"potential resistance leaders\" were killed. Later the formation became the 3rd SS Panzer Division \"Totenkopf\", but from the start they were among the first executors of a policy of systematic extermination.\nWaffen-SS formations were found guilty of war crimes, especially in the opening and closing phases of the war. In addition to documented atrocities, Waffen-SS units assisted in rounding up Eastern European Jews for deportation and utilised scorched earth tactics during rear security operations. Some Waffen-SS personnel convalesced at concentration camps, from which they were drawn, by serving guard duties. Other members of the Waffen-SS were more directly involved in genocide.\n\nThe end of the war saw a number of war crime trials, including the Malmedy massacre trial. The counts of indictment related to the massacre of more than 300 American prisoners in the vicinity of Malmedy, between 16 December 1944 and 13 January 1945, and the massacre of 100 Belgian civilians mainly in the vicinity of Stavelot.\n\nDuring the Nuremberg Trials, the Waffen-SS was declared a criminal organisation, except conscripts from 1943 onward, who were exempted from that judgement as they had been forced to join.\n\nWaffen-SS veterans in post-war Germany played a large role, through publications and political pressure, in the efforts to rehabilitate the reputation of the Waffen-SS, which had committed many war crimes during World War II. High ranking German politicians such as Konrad Adenauer, Franz Josef Strauss and Kurt Schumacher courted former Waffen-SS members and their veteran organisation, HIAG, in an effort to tap into the voter potential. The first two, went as far as assisting the organisation in attempts to remove and acquit their organisation of blame and deflect the blame for war crimes onto the other branches of the SS. A small number of veterans served in the new German armed forces, the Bundeswehr, something that raised national and international unease in regards to how it would affect the democratic nature of the new army.\n\nA historical review in Germany of the impact of Waffen-SS veterans in post-war German society continues, and a number of books on the subject have been published in recent years.\n\nHIAG (, literally \"Mutual aid association of former Waffen-SS members\") was a lobby group and a revisionist veterans' organisation founded by former high-ranking Waffen-SS personnel in West Germany in 1951. It campaigned for the legal, economic and historical rehabilitation of the Waffen-SS, using contacts with political parties to manipulate them for its purposes.\n\nHIAG's historical revisionism encompassed multi-prong propaganda efforts, including periodicals, books and public speeches, alongside a publishing house that served as a platform for its publicity aims. This extensive body of work – 57 book titles and more than 50 years of monthly periodicals – have been described by historians as revisionist apologia: [a] \"chorus of self-justification\"; \"crucible of historical revisionism\"; \"false\" and \"outrageous\" claims; \"most important works of [Waffen-SS] apologist literature\" (in reference to books by Hausser and Steiner); and \"exculpating multi-volume chronicle\" (in reference to the history of the SS Division \"Leibstandarte\").\n\nAlways in touch with its Nazi past, HIAG was a subject of significant controversy, both in West Germany and abroad, since its founding. The organisation drifted into right-wing extremism in its later history. It was disbanded in 1992 at the federal level, but local groups, along with the organisation's monthly periodical, continued to exist at least into the 2000s.\n\nWhile the HIAG leadership only partially achieved the goals of legal and economic rehabilitation of Waffen-SS, falling short of their \"extravagant fantasies about [Waffen-SS's] past and future\", HIAG's propaganda efforts have led to a reshaping of the image of Waffen-SS in popular culture. The results are still felt, with scholarly works being drowned out by a \"veritable avalanche of titles\", including amateur historical studies, memoirs, picture books, websites, and wargames.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2268053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2268053", "title": "War Resisters League Peace Award", "text": "War Resisters League Peace Award\n\nSince 1958, the \"War Resisters League\", the pacifist group founded in 1923, has awarded almost annually its War Resisters League Peace Award to a person or organization whose work represents the League's radical nonviolent program of Gandhian action.\n\n"}
{"id": "16070137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16070137", "title": "War pension", "text": "War pension\n\nWar pensions are almost certainly the most ancient type of social security. Plutarch's Life of Solon mentions a law which provides that those who are maimed in war shall be maintained at the public charge. Halsbury's Laws of England traced their history back to the days of King Alfred. Until 1978 the British War Pension scheme was run entirely under the Royal Prerogative and completely without legislation.\nVeterans' benefits (United States)\n\nPensions for veterans\n"}
{"id": "35084562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35084562", "title": "Water grabbing", "text": "Water grabbing\n\nWater grabbing involves the distribution of water resources in a way that leaves one or more parties feeling the distribution is less equitable. \n\nIt also can have damaging environmental effects as watersheds are made unsustainable by overuse of limited water.\n\n\n"}
