{"id": "46815054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46815054", "title": "Ahmad Vaezi", "text": "Ahmad Vaezi\n\nAhmad Vaezi (born 1963; ) is an Iranian philosopher, scholar and clergyman. He is now the chief of Islamic propagation office of Qom.\n\nAhmad Vaezi was born in Rey, Iran, in 1963. He entered Qom seminary in 1982 and studied preliminary courses in religious sciences in 1986. He then took courses in Islamic jurisprudence, including the classes of scholars such as Ayatollah Hossein Vahid Khorasani, Shiekh Jawad Tabrizi, Seyed Kazem Haeri, and Sadeq Larijani. Mastering Philosophy under Ayatollah Abdollah Javadi-Amoli, Mohammad-Taqi Mesbah-Yazdi and H. Fayazi, he then started his professional studies in Western Philosophy and Modern Transmitted Sciences.\n\nHe has been a university lecturer since 1987 and has taught in many Iranian and International universities. In 2001 he moved to the United Kingdom to teach at Cambridge University, and at the Islamic College and London Seminary. His major research interests are Modern Transmitted Sciences and Western Philosophy and, since 2006, he has focused on Hermeneutics and Political Thought.\n\nHe has written many books in different spheres as follow:\n\n"}
{"id": "49288128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49288128", "title": "Alan Pratt", "text": "Alan Pratt\n\nAlan R. Pratt is a Professor of Humanities at Embry-Riddle University. He is known for his research on existential nihilism and meaning of life.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33063293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33063293", "title": "Algis Uždavinys", "text": "Algis Uždavinys\n\nAlgis Uždavinys (1962–2010) was a prolific Lithuanian philosopher and scholar. His work pioneered the hermeneutical comparative study of Egyptian and Greek religions, especially their esoteric relations to Semitic religions, and in particular the inner aspect of Islam (Sufism). His books have been published in Lithuanian, Russian, English and French, including translations of Plotinus, Frithjof Schuon and Ananda Coomaraswamy into Russian and Lithuanian.\n\nBrought up in Druskininkai, by the Nemunas River in southern Lithuania, Uždavinys moved to Vilnius to pursue studies at the former State Art Institute of Lithuania, now Vilnius Academy of Fine Arts. \n\nUpon graduation he came in contact with the writings and authors of the Traditionalist or Perennialist school, and this influenced his comparative exegesis, notably his studies on Sufism, the Ancient Egyptian religion, and his assertion of the substantial continuity of Greek philosophical tradition from Pythagoras down to the latest Neoplatonic authors. In this last claim he was expressly indebted to Pierre Hadot.\n\nUždavinys was an active member of the editorial board of the journal \"Acta Orientalia Vilnensia\" and head of the Department of Humanities at the Vilnius Academy of Fine Arts, Kaunas Faculty; as an art critic, philosopher and intellectual he was a prominent figure in Lithuanian cultural life. In 2008 he spent time as a research fellow at La Trobe University in Bendigo, Australia.\n\nHe was a member of the International Society for Neoplatonic Studies and The Lithuanian Artists' Association, and a regular contributor to journals such as \"Sacred Web\", Vancouver, and \"Sophia\", Washington DC.\n\nUždavinys died in his sleep of an apparent heart attack on 25 July 2010 in his native village of Kabeliai.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3569204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3569204", "title": "Alvarus Pelagius", "text": "Alvarus Pelagius\n\nÁlvaro Pelayo (; c. 1280 – 25 January 1352) was a celebrated Galician canonist.\n\nAlvarus was born at Salnés, Galicia. He studied Canon law at Bologna, but in 1304 resigned his benefices, and entered the Franciscan Order. He is said to have been a pupil of Duns Scotus and to have been tutor to the children of Don Pedro, Regent of Portugal. Certain it is that he became penitentiary to Pope John XXII at Avignon, that he enjoyed much favour with this pontiff, and was employed by him to refute the claims of the antipope Pietro Rainalducci of Corbario. In 1333 Alvarus became titular Bishop of Coron in Achaia, and two years later was appointed to the See of Sylves in Portugal. He also served as Apostolic nuncio in Portugal, but was not created cardinal, as some writers have asserted. He died in Seville, where he was buried in the Monastery of St. Clare.\n\nAlvarus is chiefly remarkable for his work \"De planctu ecclesiae libri duo\". This work, begun at Avignon in 1330, completed in 1332, corrected in 1335 and again in 1340 at Compostela, is notable not only for its extreme defence of ecclesiastical rights but still more, perhaps, for the freedom and force with which the author assails and rebukes the ecclesiastical abuses of his time. Alvarus has been reproached by St. Antoninus and others with having too far favoured the error of the Fraticelli about poverty, but, as Sbaralea shows, it is not difficult to justify him against this charge. On the then agitated question of poverty in the Franciscan Order he wrote with less passion and with more weight than Ubertino da Casale, although he addressed almost the same reproaches as the latter to the relaxed friars within the order. The \"De planctu\" was first published at Ulm in 1474. This edition is very rare, and is not free from error. Later editions appeared at Venice (1500) and at Lyons (1517).\n\nBesides the \"De planctu\", Wadding attributed to Alvarus the following: \"Collyrium adversus haereses\"; \"Speculum regum\" (one book); \"Super sentent. libros 4\"; \"Apologia contra Marsilum Patav. et Guliel. Ocham\"; and other unedited works.\n"}
{"id": "33008767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33008767", "title": "Augustinian theodicy", "text": "Augustinian theodicy\n\nThe Augustinian theodicy, named for the 4th- and 5th-century theologian, philosopher and (according to some Christian denominations) Saint Augustine of Hippo, is a type of Christian theodicy designed in response to the evidential problem of evil. As such, it attempts to explain the probability of an omnipotent (all-powerful) and omnibenevolent (all-good) God amid evidence of evil in the world. A number of variations of this kind of theodicy have been proposed throughout history; their similarities were first described by the 20th-century philosopher John Hick, who classified them as \"Augustinian\". They typically assert that God is perfectly (ideally) good; that he created the world out of nothing; and that evil is the result of humanity's original sin. The entry of evil into the world is generally explained as punishment for sin and its continued presence due to humans' misuse of free will. God's goodness and benevolence, according to the Augustinian theodicy, remain perfect and without responsibility for evil or suffering.\n\nAugustine of Hippo was the first to develop the theodicy. He rejected the idea that evil exists in itself, instead regarding it as a corruption of goodness, caused by humanity's abuse of free will. Augustine believed in the existence of a physical Hell as a punishment for sin, but argued that those who choose to accept the salvation of Jesus Christ will go to Heaven. In the 13th century, Thomas Aquinas – influenced by Augustine – proposed a similar theodicy based on the view that God is goodness and that there can be no evil in him. He believed that the existence of goodness allows evil to exist, through the fault of humans. Augustine also influenced John Calvin, who supported Augustine's view that evil is the result of free will and argued that sin corrupts humans, requiring God's grace to give moral guidance.\n\nThe theodicy was criticised by Augustine's contemporary Fortunatus, a Manichaean who contended that God must still be somehow implicated in evil, and 18th-century theologian Francesco Antonio Zaccaria criticised Augustine's concept of evil for not dealing with individual human suffering. Hick regards evil as necessary for the moral and spiritual development of humans, and process theologians have argued that God is not omnipotent and so cannot be responsible for any evil. The logic of Augustine's approach has been adapted by Alvin Plantinga, among others. Plantinga's adapted Augustinian theodicy, the free will defence – which he proposed in the 1980s – attempts to answer only the logical problem of evil. Such a defence (not a \"theodicy\" proper) does not demonstrate the existence of God, or the probable existence of God, but attempts to prove that the existence of God and the presence of evil (or \"privatio boni\") in the world are not logically contradictory.\n\nThe Augustinian theodicy was first distinguished as a form of theodicy by John Hick in \"Evil and the God of Love\", written in 1966, in which he classified Augustine's theodicy and its subsequent developments as \"Augustinian\". Hick distinguished between the Augustinian theodicy, which attempts to clear God of all responsibility for evil, based on human free will, and the Irenaean theodicy, which casts God as responsible for evil but justified because of its benefits for human development.\n\nThe Augustinian theodicy is a response to the evidential problem of evil, which raises the concern that if God is omnipotent and omnibenevolent, there should be no evil in the world. Evidence of evil can call into question God's nature or his existence – he is either not omnipotent, not benevolent, or does not exist. Theodicy is an attempt to reconcile the existence and nature of God with evidence of evil in the world by providing valid explanations for its occurrence. The Augustinian theodicy asserts that God created the world \"ex nihilo\" (out of nothing), but maintains that God did not create evil and is not responsible for its occurrence. Evil is not attributed existence in its own right, but is described as the privation of good – the corruption of God's good creation.\n\nThe Augustinian theodicy supports the notion of original sin. All versions of this theodicy accept the theological implications of the Genesis creation narrative, including the belief that God created human beings without sin or suffering. Evil is believed to be a just punishment for the fall of man: when Adam and Eve first disobeyed God and were exiled from the Garden of Eden. The free will of humans is offered by the Augustinian theodicy as the continued reason for moral evil: people commit immoral acts when their will is evil. The evil nature of human will is attributed to original sin; Augustinian theologians argue that the sin of Adam and Eve corrupted the will of human beings, maintaining that God is blameless and good, and not himself responsible for evil.\n\nAugustine of Hippo (354–430 AD) was a philosopher and theologian born in Roman Africa (present-day Algeria). He followed the Manichaean religion during his early life, but converted to Christianity in 386. His two major works, \"Confessions\" and \"City of God\", develop key ideas regarding his response to suffering. In \"Confessions\", Augustine wrote that his previous work was dominated by materialism and that reading Plato's works enabled him to consider the existence of a non-physical substance. This helped him develop a response to the problem of evil from a theological (and non-Manichean) perspective, based on his interpretation of the first few chapters of Genesis and the writings of Paul the Apostle. In \"City of God\", Augustine developed his theodicy as part of his attempt to trace human history and describe its conclusion.\n\nAugustine proposed that evil could not exist within God, nor be created by God, and is instead a by-product of God's creativity. He rejected the notion that evil exists in itself, proposing instead that it is a privation of (or falling away from) good, and a corruption of nature. He wrote that \"evil has no positive nature; but the loss of good has received the name 'evil.'\" Both moral and natural evil occurs, Augustine argued, owing to an evil use of free will, which could be traced back to Adam and Eve's original sin. He believed that this evil will, present in the human soul, was a corruption of the will given to humans by God, making suffering a just punishment for the sin of humans. Because Augustine believed that all of humanity was \"seminally present in the loins of Adam\", he argued that all of humanity inherited Adam's sin and his just punishment. However, in spite of his belief that free will can be turned to evil, Augustine maintained that it is vital for humans to have free will, because they could not live well without it. He argued that evil could come from humans because, although humans contained no evil, they were also not perfectly good and hence could be corrupted.\n\nAugustine believed that a physical Hell exists, but that physical punishment is secondary to the punishment of being separated from God. He proposed two reasons for this: Firstly, humans have free will, and only those who choose to follow God will be forgiven and able to avoid Hell. Secondly, he believed that Adam and Eve's choice to sin affected our free choice, and that humans are left unable to resist sin. Augustine proposed that the grace of Jesus Christ freed humans from original sin, but he maintained that humans can only be saved if they choose to receive grace, and that this choice is formed by the character of individual humans. Accepting that even those who will be saved continue to sin, Augustine proposed that those who choose God's grace will still go to Hell for a time to purge them of their sin, before going to Heaven.\n\nThomas Aquinas, a thirteenth-century scholastic philosopher and theologian heavily influenced by Augustine, proposed a form of the Augustinian theodicy in his \"Summa Theologica\". Aquinas began by attempting to establish the existence of God, through his Five Ways, and then attested that God is good and must have a morally sufficient reason for allowing evil to exist. Aquinas proposed that all goodness in the world must exist perfectly in God, and that, existing perfectly, God must be perfectly good. He concluded that God is goodness, and that there is no evil in God.\n\nAquinas supported Augustine's view that evil is a privation of goodness, maintaining that evil has existence as a privation intrinsically found in good. The existence of this evil, Aquinas believed, can be completely explained by free will. Faced with the assertion that humans would have been better off without free will, he argued that the possibility of sin is necessary for a perfect world, and so individuals are responsible for their sin. Good is the cause of evil, but only owing to fault on the part of the agent. In his theodicy, to say something is evil is to say that it lacks goodness which means that it could not be part of God's creation, because God's creation lacked nothing. Aquinas noted that, although goodness makes evil possible, it does not necessitate evil. This means that God (who is good) is not cast as the cause of evil, because evil arises out of a defect in an agent, and God is seen to be without defect. Philosopher Eleonore Stump, considering Aquinas' commentary on the Book of Job, argues that Aquinas has a positive view of suffering: it is necessary to contrast Earth with heaven and remind humans that they still have the propensity to commit evil. Aquinas believed that evil is acceptable because of the good that comes from it, and that evil can only be justified when it is required in order for good to occur. Attempting to relieve God of responsibility for the occurrence of evil, Aquinas insisted that God merely permits evil to happen, rather than willing it. He recognised the occurrence of what seems to be evil, but did not attribute to it the same level of existence that he attributed to spirituality. Like Augustine, Aquinas asserted that humans bear responsibility for evil owing to their abuse of free will.\n\nJohn Calvin, a sixteenth-century French theologian and principal figure in the development of Calvinism, was influenced by Augustine's works. Unlike Augustine, Calvin was willing to accept that God is responsible for evil and suffering; however, he maintained that God cannot be indicted for it. Calvin continued the Augustinian approach that sin is the result of the fall of man, and argued that the human mind, will, and affections are corrupted by sin. He believed that only the grace of God is sufficient to provide humans with ongoing ethical guidance, arguing that reason is blinded by humans' sinful nature. Calvin proposed that humanity is predestined, divided into the elect and the reprobate: the elect are those who God has chosen to save and are the only ones who will be saved.\n\nAugustine's \"Acts or Disputation Against Fortunatus the Manichaean\", which partly touches on the problem of evil, records a public debate between Augustine and the Manichaean teacher Fortunatus. Fortunatus criticised Augustine's theodicy by proposing that if God gave free will to the human soul, then he must be implicated in human sin (a problem that Augustine had himself considered four years earlier, in \"Free Will\"). Quoting the New Testament, Fortunatus proposed that evil exists beyond the evil acts people commit, and that people commit such acts because of their own flawed nature. Augustine replied by arguing that the sin of Adam constrained human freedom, in a way similar to the formation of habits. This was not a teaching on original sin (a view that Augustine was yet to formulate), but on the limitations of human freedom caused by sin. Fortunatus proposed that Augustine was reducing the scope of evil only to what is committed by humans, though Augustine writes that Fortunatus finally conceded the debate when he admitted that he could not defend his views on the origin of evil.\n\nScholars of religion Paul Ingram and Frederick Streng argued that the teachings of Buddhism challenge Augustine's view of good and evil, proposing a dualism in which good and evil have equal value instead of casting good over evil, as Augustine did. This is similar to the Manicheist account of good and evil – that the two are equal and in conflict – though Buddhism teaches that the two will come to a final conclusion and transcend the conflict. Ingram and Streng argued that the Augustinian theodicy fails to account for the existence of evil before Adam's sin, which Genesis presents in the form of the serpent's temptation.\n\nThe Italian theologian Francesco Antonio Zaccaria criticised Augustine's concept of evil in the eighteenth century. He noted a distinction between using the term evil to imply blame (sin) and to imply lament (suffering) and argued that Augustine posited sin to have occurred before suffering. This was problematic for Zaccaria, who believed that it made Augustine seem offhand and uninterested in human suffering. For Zaccaria, Augustine's perception of evil as a privation did not satisfactorily answer the questions of modern society as to why suffering exists.\n\nJohn Hick criticised the Augustinian theodicy when he developed his own theodicy in 1966. Hick supported the views of the German theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher, which he classified as Irenaean, who argued that the world is perfectly suited for the moral development of humans and that this justifies the existence of evil. He insisted that, while the Augustinian theodicy attempted to justify historical occurrences of evil, the Irenaean theodicy seeks to justify God eternally. Hick saw Augustine's view that a perfect world went wrong as incoherent and contradictory, and argued that, if humans were made perfectly good, then it should have been impossible for them to have made an immoral choice. He questioned the success of the theodicy with the charge that it does not remove the blame for evil from God: Augustine presented a theology of predestination; Hick argued that, if God knew the choices that his creation would make, he must be responsible for them. Hick's theodicy rejected the idea of the inheritance of sinfulness, and he believed that an eternal hell would render \"a Christian theodicy impossible\". The Irenaean theodicy does not, as the Augustinian theodicy does, attempt to protect God from being responsible for evil; rather, it argues that God is responsible but justified for it because of the benefits it has for human development. Both theodicies stress the perfection of God's creation, but differ in why the world is seen as perfect. Augustine also believed, as Hick did, that bringing good out of evil is preferable to the evil not occurring in the first place.\n\nIn \"God, Power and Evil: A Process Theodicy\", published in 1976, David Ray Griffin criticised Augustine's reliance on free will and argued that it is incompatible with divine omniscience and omnipotence. Griffin argued in later works that humans cannot have free will if God is omniscient. He contented that, if God is truly omniscient, then he will know infallibly what people will do, meaning that they cannot be free. Griffin argued that the human will could not oppose God's will, if God is omnipotent. He proposed that original sin as Augustine conceived it must itself be caused by God, rendering any punishment he wills unjust.\n\nProcess theology argues that God is not omnipotent: rather than coercion, he has the power of divine persuasion, but he cannot force his will. Griffin, a prominent process theologian, argues that God feels the pain of the world (both physically and emotionally) and does everything within his power to achieve good, but he can neither force beings to be good nor prevent evil because he does not play a coercive role in the world. Process theology teaches that, rather than creating the world \"ex nihilo\" (as Augustine proposed), God created it out of a pre-existent chaos.\n\nIn the 1980s, Alvin Plantinga presented a version of the free will defence which, he argued, demonstrated that the existence of an omnipotent benevolent God and of evil are not inconsistent. He believed that, unless it could be shown that the two are not inconsistent, they would be necessarily contradictory. To do this, Plantinga believed that a \"possible state of affairs\" must be proposed which, if actual, would make God's existence and the existence of evil consistent. He argued that a third proposition – that evil is the result of the actions of free, rational, fallible human beings – allows the existence of God and evil to be consistent. Plantinga supported this argument by claiming that there are some things that an omnipotent God could not do, yet remain omnipotent – for example, if an omnipotent God has necessary existence, he could not create a world in which he does not exist. For this reason, Plantinga argued that an omnipotent God could not create any universe that he chooses, as Leibniz had proposed. He suggested that, even in a world where humans have free will, their actions may be so predictable that God could not create a world where they would do something unpredictable. Finally, he argued that if every moral agent freely makes at least one bad moral decision in any possible universe, God cannot create a universe where there is human freedom and no evil. Plantinga maintained that the existence of an omnipotent, benevolent God and the existence of evil are not inconsistent.\n\nPlantinga's version of the defence embraces Augustine's view of free will, but not his natural theology. Rather than attempt to show the existence of God as likely in the face of evil, as a theodicy does, Plantinga's free will defence attempts to show that belief in God is still logically possible, despite the existence of evil. Theologian Alister McGrath has noted that, because Plantinga only argued that the coexistence of God and evil are logically possible, he did not present a theodicy, but a defence. Plantinga did not attempt to demonstrate that his proposition is true or plausible, just that it is logically possible.\n\nSupposing that the evolutionary theory, the current consensus, is correct, John Hick criticised Augustine's theory for being \"implausible\" in light of Darwin's theory of evolution, as it would make Augustine's idea of a fall from perfection inaccurate; this is reiterated by professors Nancey Murphy and George Francis Rayner Ellis, who also contend that Augustine's idea of transmitting original sin from Adam to the rest of humanity requires biological explanation. Professor of Comparative Religion Arvind Sharma has argued that natural evil cannot be the result of moral evil in the way Augustine suggested: scientific consensus is that natural disasters and disease existed before humans and hence cannot be the result of human sin. \n\nThe twentieth-century philosopher Reinhold Niebuhr attempted to reinterpret the Augustinian theodicy in the light of evolutionary science by presenting its underlying argument without mythology. Niebuhr proposed that Augustine rejected the Manichean view that grants evil ontological existence and ties humans' sin to their created state. Augustine's argument continued, according to Niebuhr, by proposing that humans have a tendency to sin because of a biologically inherited nature and rejected the Pelagian view that human will could overcome sin on its own. Niebuhr believed Augustine's argument placed sin in the human will, which was corrupted by Adam's original sin. He argued that the logic behind Augustine's theodicy described sin as inevitable but unnecessary, which he believed captured the argument without relying on a literal interpretation of the fall, thus avoiding critique from scientific positions.\n\n"}
{"id": "28506633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28506633", "title": "Berlin Enlightenment", "text": "Berlin Enlightenment\n\nIn 1740 Frederick II, known as Frederick the Great, came to power in the Kingdom of Prussia. Under the rule of the philosophically-oriented Frederick II, Berlin gave birth to an intellectual renaissance in which it became one of the most important centers of the Enlightenment in Europe. The city was an important book and press location, as well as the new home of many drama groups. Later, it hosted a National Theatre, the Academy of the Arts and the Academy of Sciences. \n\nCentral to the Berlin Enlightenment was a learned society of friends known as the \"Aufklärer\" (enlighteners), including the publisher and bookseller Friedrich Nicolai, the poet and philosopher Karl Wilhelm Ramler, the philosopher Johann Georg Sulzer, Thomas Abbot, Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, and Moses Mendelssohn. They pursued literary and literary interests, often linked with the goal of civil emancipation; at the same time, they were loyal and patriotic to the State of Prussia. The union of the civil enlightenment and the state of Prussia and its King bespoke their underlying national goals, and the advancement of German language and literature. This was also hindered by Frederick II's preference for the French language.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40965587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40965587", "title": "Cascade Framework", "text": "Cascade Framework\n\nCascade Framework is a free CSS framework for creating websites and web apps. Similar to Bootstrap and Foundation, it contains a wide range of HTML and CSS-based interface components, as well as optional JavaScript extensions.\n\nDissatisfied with the architecture of Bootstrap and Foundation, John Slegers wanted to create an alternative that offered more flexibility and better performance without cutting back on features. He came up with the name Cascade Framework for his project and released it under the MIT License in March 2013. The last stable release is version 1.5.\n\nCascade Framework 2 is currently under development and will involve a rewrite of the codebase into the Sass language.\n\nCascade Framework 1.x is written in pure CSS. It supports responsive design and all modern browsers as well as IE6+. For an optimal balance between footprint and flexibility, it implements a modifier design pattern inspired by SMACCS and OOCSS.\n\nBinpress lists the following key features: \n\nCascade Framework is open source and available on GitHub. Developers are encouraged to participate in the project and make their own contributions to the platform.\n\nIn an article posted on October 13, 2013, Crunchify lists Cascade Framework as #5 in its \"Top 5 New and Favorite Responsive Frameworks\". The first four are respectively Bootstrap, Cardinal, TypePlate and Furrato.\n\nIn an article posted on October 24, 2013, CodeGeekz lists it among \"12 Fresh and Useful Frameworks\". Other projects listed are Gumby, Solved by Flexbox, UI Kit, SkelJS, Cardinal, Layers CSS, Grid Forms, Gridism, Maxmert, Rocket CSS and Kube Framework.\n\nLinux portal Linuxlinks lists Cascade Framework as one of the ten \"finest open source lightweight frameworks to kick start CSS and HTML projects\". Other projects listed are Quantum Framework, Pure, Baseline, HTML KickStart, Base, KNACSS, Toast, Motherplate and HTML5 Boilerplate.\n\nCascade Framework was Softpedia's Script of the day on September 6, 2013. Softpedia's scripts tester Catalin Cimpanu explains why, according to him, Cascade Framework isn't your typical framework:\n\nCascade Framework was also one of two winning submissions of a contest organised by Belgian web development company Openminds in the context of their 2013 Ruby conference, called Arrrrcamp.\n\n As of May 19, 2014, a Cascade Framework-based Drupal theme has been added to the Drupal website sandbox as a sandbox project.\n\nAs of October 29, 2014, Cascade Framework Advanced has been released. This Open Source project integrates Cascade Framework with JQuery UI.\n\n"}
{"id": "4887460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4887460", "title": "Christopher New", "text": "Christopher New\n\nChristopher New is an English author and philosopher who, beginning in 1969, spent many years as head of the philosophy department at The University of Hong Kong. He is the author of a historical novel series, \"The China Coast Trilogy\", which spans most of the twentieth century and deals with the British presence in China. He has also written novels set in India, Egypt and Europe. His novels have been widely translated. He currently divides his time between Asia and Europe.\n\n\n\nBook\nJournals\n\n"}
{"id": "46550815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46550815", "title": "Dhyāna sutras", "text": "Dhyāna sutras\n\nThe Dhyāna sutras () or \"meditation summaries\" () are a group of early Buddhist meditation texts which are mostly based on the Yogacara meditation teachings of the Sarvāstivāda school of Kashmir circa 1st-4th centuries CE. Most of the texts only survive in Chinese and were key works in the development of the Buddhist meditation practices of Chinese Buddhism.\n\nThe Dhyāna sutras focus on the concrete details of the meditative practice of the Yogacarins of northern Gandhara and Kashmir and were known as masters of Buddhist meditation. Kashmir probably became a center of dhyāna practice due to the efforts of Madhyāntika (Majjhantika), a disciple of Ānanda, who traveled north to practice and teach meditation.\n\nThe five main types of meditation in these sutras are:\n\nIn addition some sutras contain instructions on contemplation of the \"dhātu\"-s (elements); contemplation of white bones and fresh corpses; and contemplation of bodhisattvas such as Amitābha. \n\nThe content of these texts is connected with the Yogacara abhidharma works, especially the \"Abhidharmamahāvibhāsā-śāstra\" (MVŚ, 阿毗達磨大毗婆沙論), which frequently cites the practices of the early Yogacarins, and the large \"Yogācārabhūmi-śāstra\" (YBŚ).\n\nThough the doctrines in these sutras are mostly in line with early Buddhist orthodoxy, they are the work of Buddhists and translators who also lived and traveled through Central Asia and China, therefore some of them also include Mahayana Buddhist teachings and meditation methods common to the Samadhi sutras. The Dhyāna sutras are thus a set of texts which illustrate the evolution of meditation from early Buddhist methods to Mahayana techniques. Sutras such as the \"Chanfa Yaojie\" (, compiled in India no later than the third century) contain meditations which are derived from the earlier nikāyas as well as material dealing with the Mahayana bodhisattva ideal and Mahayana śūnyatā teachings.\n\nOne of the earliest Chinese translators of meditation summaries was the Parthian meditation master An Shigao (安世高, 147-168 CE) who worked on various texts including the influential \"Anban shouyi jing\" (Sanskrit: Ānāpānasmṛti-sūtra), or the “Mindfulness of Breathing discourse”. During the Eastern Han period the foremost meditation technique taught by An Shigao and his school was a form of anapanasati (annabanna 安那般那) which remained influential for centuries afterwards. Most of these summaries only survive in Chinese translation and often they are not in their original form but also include later accretions such as commentary work by Chinese translators. The difficulty of working with the Chinese translations is shown by the corrupt nature of the Da Anban shouyi jing, which according to Florin Deleanu \"gathers together An Shigao's original translation, almost impossible to reconstruct, fragments from An Shigao's own commentary as well as fragments\nfrom glosses by Chen Hui, Kang Senghui, Zhi Dun, Daoan, and Xie Fu.\" A recently discovered manuscript of the Anban Shouyi Jing at Kongo-ji temple (Japan) seems to be an actual An Shigao translation. Other highly influential and widely studied An Shigao meditation treatises by early Chinese Buddhists include the 'Scripture on the Twelve Gates' (Shier men jing) and the 'Canonical Text Concerning the \"Skandha\"-s, the \"Dhātu\"-s, and the \"Āyatana\"-s' (Yin chi ru jing, YCRJ). According to Eric Greene, the Scripture on the twelve gates and its commentary provide some of the most comprehensive information on the practice of early Chinese Meditation (Chan), while Zacchetti concludes in his paper on the YCRJ that this text was considered by An Shigao’s disciples, Kang\nSenghui 康僧會 (? - 280 CE) and Chen Hui 陳慧, to be “one of their main doctrinal sources”.\nAnother work, the \"Discourse on the Essential Secrets of Meditation\" (Taisho 15 no. 613) is one of the oldest texts to be translated into Chinese on the subject of meditation (circa 2nd or 3rd century CE) and therefore was likely to have had an influence on the meditation practices of Tiantai Buddhism and Chan Buddhism. This text belonged to the Buddhist Dārṣṭāntika school and the first Chinese translation was made by Zhi Qian in the early part of the 3rd century CE.\n\nA later important Chinese translator of these texts was Kumārajīva (334–413 CE) who translated several important meditation sutras by 402. Kumarajiva's translated meditation scriptures such as the Chanfa yaojie (禪法要解) were widely promoted by his disciple Tao Sheng. A contemporary of Kumarajiviva, Buddhabhadra, a Sarvastivadin from Kapilavastu, translated the Damoduoluo chan jing (Dharmatrāta Dhyāna sūtra), a Sarvastivada Dārṣṭāntika meditation manual associated with the Indian teachers Dharmatrāta and Buddhasena. This text, written in verse, includes orthodox Sarvastivadin meditation techniques such as ānāpāna-smṛti as well as tantric Mahayanist practices such as visualization and maṇḍala instructions. Hence this work is proof that some later Mahayana meditation practices were derived from techniques developed by Sarvastivada Yogacarins. Taken together, the translations by Kumarajiva and Buddhabhadra of Sarvastivadin meditation manuals laid the groundwork for the practices of Chan Buddhism (Zen) and the works of the Tiantai meditation master Zhiyi.\n\nTranslated or associated with An Shigao and his translation school:\n\nTranslated by Kumarajiva:\n\nOther translators: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6271560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6271560", "title": "Dimitrie Cuclin", "text": "Dimitrie Cuclin\n\nDimitrie Cuclin (  – February 7, 1978) was a Romanian classical music composer, musicologist, philosopher, translator, and writer.\n\nDimitrie Cuclin was born in the city of Galaţi, a port on the left shore of the Danube. His father was an immigrant from czarist Bessarabia, from the village of Cucleni, near the town of Izmail. He had studied music at the Theological Seminar of Izmail and at the Universities of Iaşi and Bucharest. At the time of Dimitrie’s birth he was a music teacher at the Vasile Alecsandri High School in Galați. His mother was of peasant origin, from the village of Pechea, located about 25 miles from Galați; she was a housewife. Dimitrie Cuclin completed his primary and secondary studies in his native city, where his father was his first music teacher. During high-school, he began to compose small musical pieces, which impressed the composer G.D. Kiriac, who thus suggested that Cuclin should go to Bucharest to study music.\n\nThe young composer applied first at the Conservatory (1903), where he was rejected for being above the age limit, and then at the Royal Academy of Music (1904), where he was accepted at the section of Theory and Harmony. After three years of studentship in Bucharest, Cuclin obtained a scholarship for Paris. He failed to get into the Conservatory (he was not a brilliant violin player, although he was an acceptable one), but he was admitted at Vincent D’Indy’s Schola Cantorum, where he studied until his scholarship expired in 1914. Because of the government’s refusal to supplement his scholarship, Cuclin had to leave France without completing his studies, thus without a French university degree, but with an attestation from D’Indy that certified his competencies. In Paris he met his future wife, Zoe, born Dumitrescu, ex Damian (d. 1973). They were married in 1920.\n\nOnce back in Romania, he was mobilised during the First World War, but did not go to the Front. He played violin at the Orchestra of Iasi, conducted by George Enescu, in what was left free of the Kingdom of Romania. After the War’s end, in 1919, he became a Professor at the Conservatory of Music, and had the title of the newly founded chair of Musical Aesthetics. Between 1922 and 1930 Cuclin taught in New York, at the Brooklyn Conservatory of Music and City College of Music. He returned to the Bucharest Conservatory in 1930 and remained there until 1948, when he retired. During the Second World War, in the times of the National Legionary State, Cuclin was briefly the Director of the Conservatory, but he did not have the best relations with the Legion, a fact that got him relieved of that responsibility.\n\nAt the beginning of the Communist régime, Dimitrie Cuclin was condemned for political reasons to serve two years (1950-1952) in a labour camp at the Danube-Black Sea Canal. The event that fired up the regime’s reaction was Cuclin’s attendance at a musical soirée at the Goethe-Institute in Bucharest. He was thus imprisoned for being “idealist” and “reactionary”. After this sinister episode, Cuclin was able to create again, and in fact it is in this period that he commenced his career as a symphonist. Towards the end of his life, he was close to being elected a correspondent member of the Romanian Academy, but the proletkult poet Mihai Beniuc opposed the move. He died in Bucharest in 1978 from the complications of heart disease contracted while a prisoner in the communist work camps.\n\n\nCuclin created a symphonic corpus containing 20 symphonies, and he was a representative of the monumental in symphonic writing. Some of his symphonies last the length of a whole symphonic concert (the twelfth, which is the longest, lasts 6 hours).\n\nOperas:\n\nSymphonies: \n\nConcertos:\n\n\nOther works:\n\nHe is also the author of 3 string quartets & numerous other chamber, piano pieces, sacred choruses & songs. In addition to these, Cuclin composed sonatas, madrigals, melodies of folkloric inspiration, etc. A detailed list of his works & bibliography is contained in Viorel Cosma's \"Muzicieni romani\" (Bucharest 1970).\n\nAs a composer, Cuclin is an exponent of the French school, following the line of César Franck and Vincent D’Indy.\n\nCuclin wrote a lot of poetry, of which only a small part is published, and was also a translator of poetry.\n\nCuclin wrote in Romanian, English, and French. His literary works comprise theater plays, opera librettos, and poems. Among his published volumes, the following are the most important:\n\n\nCuclin's poetry follows the antebellic paradigm of the Romanian literature, imposed by such writers as Heliade Rădulescu, Bolintineanu, Alexandrescu, Alecsandri, Eminescu, Vlahuţă, Coşbuc and Goga. He cultivates especially the sonnet, of which he has a musical understanding: the sonnet was for him the literary equivalent of a sonata. It is no wonder that, in the '70s, he failed to have a new poetry volume published: his style was long time outdated.\n\nAs a translator, Cuclin made himself remarked by his translation of Eminescu's poems in English: \"Poems\", Bucharest, I.E.Toroutiu, 1938.\n\nHe translated also from Latin the first two books of Ovid's \"Fasti\", published by the same editor, year unknown.\n\nCuclin had a permanent preoccupation for metaphysics all his life and he wrote several versions of a work called \"A Treatise of the Metaphysics\". The earliest such treatise that is available in manuscript is entitled \"La théorie de l’immortalité\" (1931), and an abridged version in Romanian, realised by Cuclin himself, was published only in 1990. The latest integral version of a \"Traité de la métaphysique\" dates from the ’50, most probably after Cuclin’s release from the labour camp. There are indications that Cuclin wrote at least four versions of the treatise, in French and Romanian, but those could not be found, as they are buried in the private collections.\n\nThis last book-length treatise has two subtitles, namely, “A theory of nothingness” and “Towards a new aspect of Marxism”. Cuclin had the naivety to think that the official Marxism could incorporate his philosophy. We have several published compressed versions of his metaphysical system, some being to his disciples which noted them after a lecture or oral exposition of the master, and one being written by Cuclin himself (in Cuclin 1986), thus more reliable .\n\nOther published works with philosophical content are \"Musique: science, art et philosophie\" (Cuclin 1934), in the documents of the Eighth International Congress of Philosophy from Prague and his innovatory \"Treatise of Musical Aesthetics\" (Cuclin 1933). The first part of this treatise is a partial exposition of his metaphysical vision, the foundation of his aesthetics.\n\nThe system of Cuclin is a form of idealism, but not one very easy to characterise. It is a musical panpsychism, claiming influence from the Pythagorean thought, and showing the Absolute to be a living system of harmonized functions, in continuous expansion. It has been suggested that his particular brand of idealism be called “functionalist idealism” (Rusu 2002). During the communist period, the philosophy of Cuclin was considered a materialist dualism (Matei 1985, Tănase 1985), point of view contested by Rusu.\n\nCuclin’s explications concerning the title of his \"Traité de la métaphysique\" are of great value for the understanding of his vision. Thus, we have “a treatise” and not “the treatise”, because metaphysics can be exposed in many treatises; and we have “of the metaphysics”, and not “of metaphysics”, because there is but one “metaphysics”. “The metaphysics” is, in fact, more like “the metaphysical realm” for Cuclin, or the domain of the transcendence. Thus, he proposed to produce one of the possible surveys of this domain.\n\nThe method of Cuclin is the logical enquiry, followed up to an absurdity, or violent contradiction. The contradiction is the sign of reaching the truth, because the truth is found in logical reasoning, not in reason. An absurdity is the sign that the reason does not agree with the results of the logical reasoning, but is not a sign of unreality or falseness. Rather the opposite is true, that the point of view of the reason is unreliable and many times false. With this almost Eleatic method, Cuclin reaches some sort of spiritualist monism, which will be briefly presented in the following lines.\n\nBut firstly we will note another methodological aspect of Cuclin’s metaphysics, namely the contribution of the “science of music” to the knowledge of the reality. The science of music is not a science of the sound, because the sound is not essential to music. The phenomenon of the “enharmony” and the fact that each sound can have different functions in different chords proves to Cuclin that the sound is only the contingent bearer of a “function” which can have other contingent bearers, like emotion and feeling. The “function” is determined as a degree of movement of the soul, towards pleasure or pain. Thus, the music is literally done with the soul, not with the sound, and it passes from the sound into the soul in virtue of this invariant which is the function. The science of music, then, provides us with the laws of the function, the ultimate component of reality.\n\nHis central category is that of essence, which constitutes the ultimate ontological ground. Equated by Cuclin with the pure nothingness, but a positive nothingness, like the Buddhist nirvana, the essence it is roughly an equivalent of the spirit, but it differs greatly because it presents itself as a system of harmonics, like an absolute sound composed of infinitely many harmonics, each one bearing a specific function within the whole. This realm of essence, governed by the laws of harmony (which laws we know from the science of music) has a will, and a purpose for the realising of which the will mobilises. The purpose of this great harmonic system is to acquire self-consciousness. Therefore, the essence degrades itself in an impure mode, the substance, which is the second fundamental category of Cuclin's metaphysics.\n\nThe process of degradation that commences with the pure essence and ends with the pure substance is called by Cuclin “the separation of essence”. In this process of separation are generated diverse entities which are a mixture of substance and essence, where one of these aspects is prevalent. Actually, every extant thing is a mixture of essence and substance in different proportions. The first element into which the essence separates is the magnetism (or magnetic field), from which is further separated the electricity, followed by light and so on until the living matter is obtained. This cosmology, mostly fantastic, bears the influences of evolutionism and voluntarism, with a trace of Hegelianism.\n\nThe human being is a culmination of the substantialisation of the essence; from here the reverted process can begin, that of the re-essentialisation of the substance. The first process, the separation of the essence or its substantialisation, was also called analysis. The process of the re-essentialistion of the substance is called synthesis. Through this synthetic process which is the human creation, the re-essentialised substance can be transposed as a magnetic double in a great harmonic system, which is the image of the pure essence, regarded as re-essentialised substance. Thus, the essence stand in front of itself and, with the help of the human creation, takes consciousness of itself. This implies an ethics of creation and a theory of immortality. Through his creations the man constitutes a magnetic double of his personality, which is integrated in the great harmonic system which is the Essence. Thus, by contributing through creation to the becoming self-conscious of the Essence, the man becomes also immortal.\n\nAlthough isolated from the community of the philosophers, Cuclin had private disciples which assimilated his philosophy (e.g. Ion Bârsan). One of his students, Alexandru Bogza, wrote in solitude a philosophical system, called \"the critical realism\" (no connection with the homonymous American philosophical movement), published posthumously. This system bears the traces of a certain Cuclinian influence (Cuclin is quoted several times by Bogza), but the depth of this influence is yet to be assessed.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2167931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2167931", "title": "Eisegesis", "text": "Eisegesis\n\nEisegesis () is the process of interpreting a text or portion of text in such a way that the process introduces one's own presuppositions, agendas, or biases into and onto the text. This is commonly referred to as \"reading into\" the text. The act is often used to \"prove\" a pre-held point of concern to the reader and to provide him or her with confirmation bias in accordance with his or her pre-held agenda. Eisegesis is best understood when contrasted with \"exegesis\". While exegesis is the process of drawing out the meaning from a text in accordance with the context and discoverable meaning of its author, \"eisegesis\" occurs when a reader imposes his or her interpretation into and onto the text. As a result, exegesis tends to be objective when employed effectively while eisegesis is regarded as highly subjective.\n\nThe plural of eisegesis is \"eisegeses\" (). An individual who practices eisegesis is known as an \"eisegete\" (); this is also the verb form. The term \"eisegete\" is often used in a mildly derogatory fashion.\n\nAlthough the terms \"eisegesis\" and \"exegesis\" are commonly heard in association with Biblical interpretations, both (and especially exegesis) are broadly used across literary disciplines.\n\nWhile exegesis is an attempt to determine the historical context within which a particular verse exists—the so-called \"Sitz im Leben\" or life setting—eisegetes often neglect this aspect of Biblical study.\n\nIn the field of Biblical exegesis, scholars take great care to avoid eisegesis. In this field, eisegesis is regarded as \"poor exegesis\".\n\nIn the field of \"biblical proof texts\", Christian theologians and missionaries are often accused of practicing eisegesis using isolated, out-of-context quotations from the Christian Bible to establish a proposition or to read Christ into the Hebrew Bible.\n\nWhile some denominations and scholars denounce Biblical eisegesis, many Christians are known to employ it—albeit inadvertently—as part of their own experiential theology. Modern evangelical scholars accuse liberal Protestants of practicing Biblical eisegesis, while mainline scholars accuse fundamentalists of practicing eisegesis. Roman Catholics and Orthodox Christians say that all Protestants engage in eisegesis, because the Bible can be correctly understood only through the lens of Holy Tradition as handed down by the institutional Church; this is articulated in the \"Dei verbum\". Jews, in turn, might assert that Christians practice eisegesis when they read the Old Testament as anticipating Jesus of Nazareth.\n\nIn conducting Bible translation, translators have to make many exegetical decisions. Sometimes the decisions made by translators are criticized by those who disagree, and who characterize the work of the translators as involving \"eisegesis\". Some translators make their doctrinal distinctives clear in a preface, such as Stephen Reynolds in his Purified Translation of the Bible, where he explained his belief that Christians should never drink alcohol, and translated accordingly. Such translators may be accused by some of eisegesis, but they have made their positions clear.\n\nExactly what constitutes eisegesis remains a source of debate among theologians, but most scholars agree about the importance of determining the authorial intentions. Determining the author's intent can often be difficult, especially for books which were written anonymously.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18266361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18266361", "title": "GNU social", "text": "GNU social\n\nGNU social (previously known as StatusNet and once known as Laconica) is a free and open source software microblogging server written in PHP that implements the OStatus standard for interoperation between installations. While offering functionality similar to Twitter, GNU social seeks to provide the potential for open, inter-service and distributed communications between microblogging communities. Enterprises and individuals can install and control their own services and data.\n\nGNU social has been deployed on hundreds of interoperating servers.\n\n\n\nGNU social was spun out of the GNU FM project. The founder was Matt Lee and the early developers were fellow FSF employees, Donald Robertson and Deborah Nicholson.\n\nStatusNet deployment based on the formerly known as Laconica was the Identi.ca open-microblogging service. Hosted by original StatusNet creators StatusNet Inc., Identi.ca offered free accounts to the public and serves as the co-flagship (along with freelish.us) for the installable version of StatusNet. The site has migrated to pump.io.\n\nVersion 0.9.0, released March 3, 2010, added support for OStatus, a new distributed update standard superseding OpenMicroBlogging.\n\nJune 8, 2013 it was announced StatusNet would be merged into the GNU social project, along with Free Social.\n\nThe service is interoperable with the federated social network Mastodon and other OStatus platforms.\n\nStatusNet was renamed from Laconica coinciding with the release of version 0.8.1 (a.k.a. \"Second Guessing\") of the StatusNet software.\n\nStatusNet's name \"simply reflects what our software does: send \"status\" updates into your social \"net\"work.\"\n\nLaconica's name was a reference to the Laconic phrase, a particularly concise or terse statement the likes of which are famously attributed to the leaders of Sparta (Laconia being the Greek region containing Sparta). In microblogging, all messages are forced to be very short due to the ~140 character tradition on message size, thus they are all de facto laconic phrases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21080184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21080184", "title": "Gabriel Duffy", "text": "Gabriel Duffy\n\nGabriel Patrick Duffy (1942–2008) was an author and philosopher born in Dublin, Ireland, and is best known for his autobiography, \"Sham to Rock\". Duffy emigrated to London in 1963, where he worked as an accountant. He then worked in recruitment, subsequently establishing and building up Gabriel Duffy, which in the 1980s became a well known and successful financial recruitment consultancy. When, as a result of the recession in the early 1990s, the business hit difficulties, he turned full-time to his great love, writing. He has two daughters and was friendly with the novelist Colin Wilson. Duffy died of peritonitis in his Brighton flat in early December, 2008.\n\nSham to Rock was first published in 2003 by Aengus books. It is an autobiographical account of the first 17 years of Duffy's life, and focuses on his physical, mental and social maturation in a Catholic society. The title symbolises the movement from the sham hypocrisy of the immediate post-war years to a more open and cosmopolitan approach to life: rock. The book was well received in the media, with the Sunday Independent describing it as \"lively and evocative, as well as beautifully and economically written\" while The Irish World stated that \"his observations [...] will keep you riveted right through to the very last page\". However, the sales of Sham to Rock were lower than expected and, given this, there were no further editions. A sequel to Sham to Rock has been drafted, but not yet published.\n\n"}
{"id": "4215185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4215185", "title": "Gerard Casey (philosopher)", "text": "Gerard Casey (philosopher)\n\nGerard N. Casey (born 1951) is an Irish academic who was Professor Emeritus at University College Dublin. \n\nHe holds law degrees from the University of London and UCD as well as a primary degree in philosophy from University College Cork, an MA and PhD from the University of Notre Dame and the higher doctorate, DLitt, from the National University of Ireland. He was formerly Assistant Professor at The Catholic University of America (Washington, D.C.), 1983-1986 and Adjunct Professor at the Pontifical Institute in Washington D.C., 1984-86. He was a member of the School of Philosophy in University College Dublin (UCD) (Head from 2001–2006) from 1986 until he retired in December 2015. He is a Fellow of Mises UK and an Associated Scholar of the Ludwig von Mises Institute in Auburn, Alabama.\n\nHe was active in Irish politics in the 1990s and led the Christian Solidarity Party between 1993 and 1999. He now holds libertarian and (philosophically) anarchistic views. His philosophical interests include political philosophy (Libertarianism, Anarcho-capitalism) and the philosophy of law. He appears from time to time on radio and TV on topical social and political issues. \n\n\"Murray Rothbard\" (Vol. 15 in the series \"Major Conservative and Libertarian Thinkers\") was published by Continuum in 2010 and became available in paperback in August 2013. \"Libertarian Anarchy: Against the State\", was published by Continuum in July 2012 (UK) [September 2012 USA]. A comprehensive history of political thought from the perspective of liberty, \"Freedom's Progress?\", was published by Imprint Academic in September 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "21042594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21042594", "title": "Gilbert Jack", "text": "Gilbert Jack\n\nGilbert Jack (Latinized: \"Jachaeus\", \"Jacchaeus\"; c. 1578 – April 17, 1628) was Scottish Aristotelian philosopher and a physician.\n\nHe was born in Aberdeen, and studied at Marischal College under Robert Howie. In 1598 he went to the University of Helmstedt.\n\nHe was professor, later of physics, at the University of Leiden, from 1605. He was dismissed in 1619, suspected of sympathy with the Remonstrants; he was reinstated in 1623.\n\nIn 1626 he held the funeral oration for his deceased colleague Willebrord Snellius.\n\nHis students included Franck Burgersdijk and Adolph Vorstius.\n\n\nThe \"Institutiones Physicae\" is in nine books, and accepts the occult influence of the heavens.\n\n"}
{"id": "322852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322852", "title": "Giorgio Agamben", "text": "Giorgio Agamben\n\nGiorgio Agamben (; ; born 22 April 1942) is an Italian philosopher best known for his work investigating the concepts of the state of exception, form-of-life (borrowed from Ludwig Wittgenstein) and \"homo sacer\". The concept of biopolitics (borrowed and adapted from Michel Foucault) informs many of his writings.\n\nAgamben was educated at the University of Rome, where in 1965 he wrote an unpublished laurea thesis on the political thought of Simone Weil. Agamben participated in Martin Heidegger's Le Thor seminars (on Heraclitus and Hegel) in 1966 and 1968. In the 1970s, he worked primarily on linguistics, philology, poetics, and topics in medieval culture. During this period, Agamben began to elaborate his primary concerns, although their political bearings were not yet made explicit. In 1974–1975 he was a fellow at the Warburg Institute, University of London, due to the courtesy of Frances Yates, whom he met through Italo Calvino. During this fellowship, Agamben began to develop his second book, \"Stanzas\" (1977).\n\nAgamben was close to the poets Giorgio Caproni and José Bergamín, and to the Italian novelist Elsa Morante, to whom he devoted the essays \"The Celebration of the Hidden Treasure\" (in \"The End of the Poem\") and \"Parody\" (in \"Profanations\"). He has been a friend and collaborator to such eminent intellectuals as Pier Paolo Pasolini (in whose \"The Gospel According to St. Matthew\" he played the part of Philip), Italo Calvino (with whom he collaborated, for a short while, as advisor to the publishing house Einaudi and developed plans for a journal), Ingeborg Bachmann, Pierre Klossowski, Guy Debord, Jean-Luc Nancy, Jacques Derrida, Antonio Negri, Jean-François Lyotard and others.\n\nHis strongest influences include Martin Heidegger, Walter Benjamin and Michel Foucault. Agamben edited Benjamin's collected works in Italian translation until 1996, and called Benjamin's thought \"the antidote that allowed me to survive Heidegger\". In 1981, Agamben discovered several important lost manuscripts by Benjamin in the archives of the Bibliothèque nationale de France. Benjamin had left these manuscripts to Georges Bataille when he fled Paris shortly before his death. The most relevant of these to Agamben's own later work were Benjamin's manuscripts for his theses \"On the Concept of History\". Agamben has engaged since the nineties in a debate with the political writings of the German jurist Carl Schmitt, most extensively in the study \"State of Exception\" (2003). His recent writings also elaborate on the concepts of Michel Foucault, whom he calls \"a scholar from whom I have learned a great deal in recent years\".\n\nAgamben's political thought was founded on his readings of Aristotle's \"Politics\", \"Nicomachean Ethics\", and treatise \"On the Soul\", as well as the exegetical traditions concerning these texts in late antiquity and the Middle Ages. In his later work, Agamben intervenes in the theoretical debates following the publication of Nancy's essay \"La communauté désoeuvrée\" (1983), and Maurice Blanchot's response, \"La communauté inavouable\" (1983). These texts analyzed the notion of community at a time when the European Community was under debate. Agamben proposed his own model of a community which would not presuppose categories of identity in \"The Coming Community\" (1990). At this time, Agamben also analyzed the ontological condition and \"political\" attitude of Bartleby (from Herman Melville's short story) — a \"scrivener\" who does not react, and \"prefers not\" to write.\n\nCurrently, Agamben is teaching at Accademia di Architettura di Mendrisio (Università della Svizzera Italiana) and has taught at the Università IUAV di Venezia, the Collège International de Philosophie in Paris, and the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland; he previously taught at the University of Macerata and at the University of Verona, both in Italy. He also has held visiting appointments at several American universities, from the University of California, Berkeley, to Northwestern University, and at Heinrich Heine University, Düsseldorf. Agamben received the Prix Européen de l'Essai Charles Veillon in 2006.\n\nIn 2013 he was awarded the Dr. Leopold Lucas Prize by the University of Tübingen for his work titled \"Leviathans Rätsel\" (Leviathan's Riddle, translated into English by Paul Silas Peterson).\n\nMuch of Giorgio Agamben's work since the 1980s can be viewed as leading up to the so-called \"Homo Sacer\" project, which properly begins with the book \"Homo Sacer: Sovereign Power and Bare Life\". In this series of works, Agamben responds to Hannah Arendt's and Foucault's studies of totalitarianism and biopolitics. Since 1995 he has been best known for this ongoing project, the volumes of which have been published out of order, and which include:\n\nIn the final volume of the series, Agamben intends to address \"the concepts of forms-of-life and lifestyles.\" \"What I call a form-of-life,\" he explains, \"is a life which can never be separated from its form, a life in which it is never possible to separate something like bare life. [...] [H]ere too the concept of privacy comes in to play.\"\n\nThe reduction of life to 'biopolitics' is one of the main threads in Agamben's work, in his critical conception of a \"homo sacer\", reduced to 'bare life', and thus deprived of any rights. Agamben's concept of the \"homo sacer\" rests on a crucial distinction in Greek between \"bare life\" (\"la vita nuda\" or zoê ; Gk. ζωή \"zoê\") and \"a particular mode of life\" or \"qualified life\" (bios , ; Gk. βίος \"bios\"). In Part III, section 7 of \"Homo Sacer\", \"The Camp as the 'Nomos' of the Modern\", he evokes the concentration camps of World War II. \"The camp is the space that is opened when the state of exception begins to become the rule.\" Agamben says that \"What happened in the camps so exceeds (is outside of) the juridical concept of crime that the specific juridico-political structure in which those events took place is often simply omitted from consideration.\" The conditions in the camps were \"\"conditio inhumana\",\" and the incarcerated somehow defined outside the boundaries of humanity, under the exception laws of \"Schutzhaft\". Where law is based on vague, unspecific concepts such as \"race\" or \"good morals,\" law and the personal subjectivity of the judicial agent are no longer distinct.\n\nIn the process of creating a state of exception these effects can compound. In a realized state of exception, one who has been accused of committing a crime, within the legal system, loses the ability to use his voice and represent themselves. The individual can not only be deprived of their citizenship, but also of any form of agency over their own life. \"Agamben identifies the state of exception with the power of decision over life.\"\n\nWithin the state of exception, the distinction between \"bios\" (the life of the citizen) and \"zoê\" (the life of \"homo sacer\") is made by those with judicial power. For example, Agamben would argue that Guantánamo Bay exemplifies the concept of 'the state of exception' in the United States following 9–11. \n\nAgamben mentions that basic universal human rights of Taliban individuals while captured in Afghanistan and sent to Guantánamo Bay in 2001 were negated by US laws. In reaction to the removal of their basic human rights, detainees of Guantánamo Bay prison went on hunger strikes. Within a state of exception, when a detainee is placed outside the law, he is according to Agamben, reduced to \"bare life\" in the eyes of the judicial powers. Here, one can see why such measures as hunger strikes can occur in such places as prisons. Within the framework of a system that has deprived the individual of power, and their individual basic human freedoms, the hunger strike can be seen as a weapon or form of resistance. \"The body is a model which can stand for any bounded system. Its boundaries can represent any boundaries which are threatened or precarious.\" Within a state of exception the boundaries of power are precarious and threaten to destabilize not only the law, but one's humanity, as well as their choice of life or death. Forms of resistance to the extended use of power within the state of exception as suggested in Guantánamo Bay prison also operate outside the law. In the case of the hunger strike, the prisoners were threatened and endured force feeding not allowing them to die. During the hunger strikes at Guantánamo Bay prison, accusations and founded claims of forced feedings began to surface in the autumn of 2005. In February 2006, \"The New York Times\" reported that prisoners were being force fed in Guantánamo Bay prison and in March 2006, more than 250 medical experts, as reported by the BBC, voiced their opinions of the forced feedings stating that this was a breach of the government's power and was against the rights of the prisoners.\n\nIn \"The Coming Community\", published in Italian in 1990 and translated into English by longtime admirer Michael Hardt in 1993, Agamben describes the social and political manifestation of his philosophical thought. Employing diverse short essays he describes the nature of \"whatever singularity\" as that which has an \"inessential commonality, a solidarity that in no way concerns an essence\". It is important to note his understanding of \"whatever\" not as being indifference but based on the Latin \"quodlibet ens\" translated as \"being such that it always matters\".\n\nAgamben starts off by describing \"The Lovable\"\n\nIn the same sense, Agamben talks about \"ease\" as the \"place\" of love, or \"rather love as the experience of taking-place in a whatever singularity\", which resonates his use of the concept \"use\" in the later works.\n\nFollowing the same trend, he employs, among others, the following to describe the \"watershed of whatever\":\n\n\nOther themes addressed in \"The Coming Community\" include the commodification of the body, evil, and the messianic.\n\nUnlike other continental philosophers he does not reject the age-old dichotomies of subject/object and potentiality/actuality outright, but rather turns them inside-out, pointing out the zone where they become indistinguishable.\n\nThe political task of humanity, he argues, is to expose the innate potential in this zone of indistinguishability. And although criticised as dreaming the impossible by certain authors, he nonetheless shows a concrete example of \"whatever singularity\" acting politically:\n\nIn his main work \"Homo Sacer: Sovereign Power and Bare Life\" (1998), Giorgio Agamben analyzes an obscure figure of Roman law that poses fundamental questions about the nature of law and power in general. Under the laws of the Roman Empire, a man who committed a certain kind of crime was banned from society and all of his rights as a citizen were revoked. He thus became a \"homo sacer\" (sacred man). In consequence, he could be killed by anybody, while his life on the other hand was deemed \"sacred\", so he could not be sacrificed in a ritual ceremony.\n\nAlthough Roman law no longer applied to someone deemed a \"Homo sacer\", they remained \"under the spell\" of law. Agamben explains the latter idea as \"human life ... included in the juridical order solely in the form of its exclusion (that is, of its capacity to be killed)\". \"Homo sacer\" was therefore \"excluded\" from law itself, while being \"included\" at the same time. This figure is the exact mirror image of the sovereign (\"basileus\") — a king, emperor, or president — who stands, on the one hand, \"within\" law (so he can be condemned, e.g., for treason, as a natural person) and \"outside\" the law (since as a body politic he has power to suspend law for an indefinite time).\n\nGiorgio Agamben draws on Carl Schmitt's definition of the Sovereign as the one who has the power to decide the state of exception (or \"justitium\"), where law is indefinitely \"suspended\" without being abrogated. But if Schmitt's aim is to include the necessity of state of emergency under the rule of law, Agamben on the contrary demonstrates that all life cannot be subsumed by law. As in \"Homo sacer\", the state of emergency is the inclusion of life and necessity in the juridical order solely in the form of its exclusion.\n\nAgamben opines that laws have always assumed the authority to define \"bare life\" — \"zoe\", as opposed to \"bios\", that is 'qualified life' — by making this exclusive operation, while at the same time gaining power over it by making it the subject of political control. The power of law to actively separate \"political\" beings (citizens) from \"bare life\" (bodies) has carried on from Antiquity to Modernity — from, literally, Aristotle to Auschwitz. Aristotle, as Agamben notes, constitutes political life via a simultaneous inclusion and exclusion of \"bare life\": as Aristotle says, man is an animal born to life (Gk. ζῆν, \"zen\"), but existing with regard to the good life (εὖ ζῆν, \"eu zen\") which can be achieved through politics. Bare life, in this ancient conception of politics, is that which must be transformed, via the State, into the \"good life\"; that is, bare life is that which is supposedly excluded from the higher aims of the state, yet is included precisely so that it may be transformed into this \"good life\". Sovereignty, then, is conceived from ancient times as the power which determines what or who is to be incorporated into the political body (in accord with its \"bios\") by means of the more originary exclusion (or exception) of what is to remain outside the political body—which is at the same time the source of that body's composition (\"zoe\"). According to Agamben, biopower, which takes the bare lives of the citizens into its political calculations, may be more marked in the modern state, but has essentially existed since the beginnings of sovereignty in the West, since this structure of \"ex-ception\" is essential to the core concept of sovereignty.\n\nAgamben would continue to expand the theory of the state of exception first introduced in \"Homo Sacer: Sovereign Power and Bare Life\", ultimately leading to the \"State of Exception\" in 2005. Instead of leaving a space between law and life, the space where human action is possible, the space that used to constitute politics, he argues that politics has \"contaminated itself with law\" in the state of exception. Because \"only human action is able to cut the relationship between violence and law\", it becomes increasingly difficult within the state of exception for humanity to act against the State.\n\nIn this book, Giorgio Agamben traces the concept of 'state of exception' (\"Ausnahmezustand\") used by Carl Schmitt to Roman \"justitium\" and \"auctoritas\". This leads him to a response to Carl Schmitt's definition of sovereignty as the power to proclaim the exception.\n\nAgamben's text \"State of Exception\" investigates the increase of power by governments which they employ in supposed times of crisis. Within a state of emergency, Agamben refers to the states of exception, where constitutional rights can be diminished, superseded and rejected in the process of claiming this extension of power by a government.\n\nThe state of exception invests one person or government with the power and voice of authority over others extended well beyond where the law has existed in the past. \"In every case, the state of exception marks a threshold at which logic and praxis blur with each other and a pure violence without \"logos\" claims to realize an enunciation without any real reference\" (Agamben, pg 40). Agamben refers a continued state of exception to the Nazi state of Germany under Hitler's rule. \"The entire Third Reich can be considered a state of exception that lasted twelve years. In this sense, modern totalitarianism can be defined as the establishment, by means of the state of exception, of a legal civil war that allows for the physical elimination not only of political adversaries but of entire categories of citizens who for some reason cannot be integrated into the political system\" (Agamben, pg 2).\n\nThe political power over others acquired through the state of exception, places one government — or one form or branch of government — as all powerful, operating outside the laws. During such times of extension of power, certain forms of knowledge shall be privileged and accepted as true and certain voices shall be heard as valued, while of course, many others are not. This oppressive distinction holds great importance in relation to the production of knowledge. The process of both acquiring knowledge, and suppressing certain knowledge, is a violent act within a time of crisis.\n\nAgamben's \"State of Exception\" investigates how the suspension of laws within a state of emergency or crisis can become a prolonged state of being. More specifically, Agamben addresses how this prolonged state of exception operates to deprive individuals of their citizenship. When speaking about the military order issued by President George W. Bush on 13 November 2001, Agamben writes, \"What is new about President Bush's order is that it radically erases any legal status of the individual, thus producing a legally unnameable and unclassifiable being. Not only do the Taliban captured in Afghanistan not enjoy the status of POW's (prisoner of war) as defined by the Geneva Convention, they do not even have the status of people charged with a crime according to American laws\" (Agamben, pg 3). Many of the individuals captured in Afghanistan were taken to be held at Guantánamo Bay without trial. These individuals were termed as \"enemy combatants.\" Until 7 July 2006, these individuals had been treated outside the Geneva Conventions by the United States administration.\n\nAgamben shows that \"auctoritas\" and \"potestas\" are clearly distinct — although they form together a system\". He quotes Mommsen, who explains that \"auctoritas\" is \"less than an order and more than an advice\".\n\nWhile \"potestas\" derives from social function, \"auctoritas\" \"immediately derives from the \"patres\" personal condition\". As such, it is akin to Max Weber's concept of charisma. This is why the tradition ordered, at the king's death, the creation of the sovereign's wax-double in the \"funus imaginarium\", as Ernst Kantorowicz demonstrated in \"The King's Two Bodies\" (1957). Hence, it is necessary to distinguish two bodies of the sovereign in order to assure the continuity of \"dignitas\" (term used by Kantorowicz, here a synonym of \"auctoritas\"). Moreover, in the person detaining \"auctoritas\" — the sovereign — public life and private life have become inseparable. Augustus, the first Roman emperor who claimed \"auctoritas\" as the basis of \"princeps\" status in a famous passage of \"Res Gestae\", had opened up his house to public eyes.\n\nThe concept of \"auctoritas\" played a key-role in fascism and Nazism, in particular concerning Carl Schmitt's theories, argues Agamben:\n\nThus, Agamben opposes Foucault's concept of \"biopolitics\" to right (law), as he defines the state of exception, in \"Homo sacer\", as the inclusion of life by right under the figure of ex-ception, which is simultaneously inclusion and exclusion. Following Walter Benjamin's lead, he explains that our task would be to radically differentiate \"pure violence\" from right, instead of tying them together, as did Carl Schmitt.\n\nAgamben concludes his chapter on \"\"Auctoritas\" and \"potestas\"\" writing:\n\nAgamben's thoughts on the state of emergency leads him to declare that the difference between dictatorship and democracy is thin indeed, as rule by decree became more and more common, starting from World War I and the reorganization of constitutional balance. Agamben often reminds that Hitler never \"abrogated\" the Weimar Constitution: he \"suspended\" it for the whole duration of the Third Reich with the Reichstag Fire Decree, issued on 28 February 1933. Indefinite suspension of law is what characterizes the state of exception. Thus, Agamben connects Greek political philosophy through to the concentration camps of 20th century fascism, and even further, to detainment camps in the likes of Guantánamo Bay or immigration detention centers, such as Bari, Italy, where asylum seekers have been imprisoned in football stadiums. In these kinds of camps, entire zones of exception are being formed: the state of exception becomes a status under which certain categories of people live, a \"capture\" of life by right. Sovereign law makes it possible to create entire areas in which the application of the law itself is held suspended, which is the basis of the Bush administration's definition of an \"enemy combatant\".\n\nThe English edition was translated by Adam Kotsko. In this study of medieval monastic rules, Agamben offers a genealogical approach to several concepts that Ludwig Wittgenstein established in his late philosophy, primarily the \"Philosophical Investigations\": rule-following, form-of-life, and the central importance of 'use' (for Wittgenstein: 'the meaning of a word is its use in language', and he uses 'language' not just to speak of word-language but any understandable behaviour). Agamben traces earlier versions of the term 'form-of-life' throughout the development of monastic life, beginning with the establishment of a genre of written rules in the fourth century. The aim of the book is to differentiate between 'law' and a particular use of rule that is opposite to the implementation of law. In order to sketch out the potential of this concept, we would need 'a theory of use – of which Western philosophy lacks even the most elementary principles'. Agamben turns to the Franciscans to survey a unique historical incident of a group organising itself with a rule that \"is\" their life, and thinking of their own lives not as their own possession but as a communal 'use'; he looks at the ways in which this idea developed and how it eventually lapsed into the church's law.\nAccording to reviewer Nathan Schneider, \"\"The Highest Poverty\" examines two medieval Christian attempts, in the name of eternal life, to live this life beyond the reach of ordinary politics: several centuries of monasticism, and then the brief and momentous epiphany in the movement founded by Francis of Assisi. Each, according to Agamben, fails in revealing ways.\"\n\nGiorgio Agamben is particularly critical of the United States' response to 11 September 2001, and its instrumentalization as a permanent condition that legitimizes a \"state of exception\" as the dominant paradigm for governing in contemporary politics. He warns against a \"generalization of the state of exception\" through laws like the USA PATRIOT Act, which means a permanent installment of martial law and emergency powers. In January 2004, he refused to give a lecture in the United States because under the US-VISIT he would have been required to give up his biometric information, which he believed stripped him to a state of \"bare life\" (\"zoe\") and was akin to the tattooing that the Nazis did during World War II.\n\nHowever, Agamben's criticisms target a broader scope than the US \"war on terror\". As he argues in \"State of Exception\" (2005), rule by decree has become common since World War I in all modern states, and has been since then generalized and abused. Agamben points out a general tendency of modernity, recalling for example that when Francis Galton and Alphonse Bertillon invented \"judicial photography\" for \"anthropometric identification\", the procedure was reserved to criminals; to the contrary, today's society is tending toward a generalization of this procedure to all citizens, placing the population under permanent suspicion and surveillance: \"The political body thus has become a criminal body\". And Agamben notes that the Jews deportation in France and other occupied countries was made possible by the photos taken from identity cards. Furthermore, Agamben's political criticisms open up in a larger philosophical critique of the concept of sovereignty itself, which he argues is intrinsically related to the state of exception.\n\nAgamben's major books are listed in order of first Italian publication (with the exception of \"Potentialities\", which first appeared in English), and English translations are listed where available. There are translations of most writings in German, French, Portuguese, and Spanish.\nA chronological and complete bibliography (December 2013) is available here.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12845292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12845292", "title": "Harry George Drickamer", "text": "Harry George Drickamer\n\nHarry George Drickamer (November 19, 1918 – May 6, 2002), born Harold George Weidenthal, was a pioneer experimentalist in high-pressure studies of condensed matter. His work generally concerned understanding the electronic properties of matter.\n\nDrickamer was born in Cleveland, Ohio, USA, to Louise Weidenthal and Harold Weidenthal. His father died when Harry was very young, and after his mother remarried, Harry’s stepfather adopted him. After graduating early from public schools in East Cleveland, he played minor league professional baseball in the Cleveland Indians farm system, then entered Vanderbilt University on a football scholarship. He soon transferred to Indiana University and then to the University of Michigan, where he received a B.S. in chemical engineering in 1941 and master's degree one year later.\n\nIn 1942 Drickamer began work at the Pan American Refinery in Texas City, Texas. After his fellow students played a prank by forging his name on a sign-up sheet for the Ph.D. qualifying exam in chemical engineering, he decided to take the 16-hour exam. After he started work in Texas, he received word that he had passed. He then combined work with study of physics and quantum mechanics, and in February 1946 returned to the University of Michigan for one term to receive his Ph.D.\n\nDrickamer joined the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, where he subsequently remained for his entire professional career. After his initial appointment as an assistant professor of chemical engineering in 1946, he was promoted to associate professor in 1949 and to full professor in 1953. In 1958 he was appointed professor of chemical engineering and physical chemistry, and in 1983 he became professor of chemical engineering, chemistry, and physics.\n\n\nDrickamer died of stroke on May 6, 2002, in Urbana. In honor of his outstanding achievements and hard work, one graduate student every year at Illinois from either Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Chemistry, or Physics will be awarded the Harry G. Drickamer Research Fellowship via the Drickamer Fund.\n\nHarry is the father of esteemed biochemist Kurt Drickamer, currently a professor at [[Imperial College London], discoverer of C-type Lectins. His other son, Lee C. Drickamer is a well-known animal behaviorist and textbook author who received the 2010 Distinguished Animal Behaviorist Award from the Animal Behavior Society. Now retired as Regents' Professor Emeritus, he spent his academic career at Williams College, Southern Illinois University, and Northern Arizona University.\n\n\n[[Category:American chemical engineers]]\n[[Category:Members of the United States National Academy of Engineering]]\n[[Category:National Medal of Science laureates]]\n[[Category:Scientists from Cleveland]]\n[[Category:1918 births]]\n[[Category:2002 deaths]]\n[[Category:Members of the United States National Academy of Sciences]]\n[[Category:Guggenheim Fellows]]\n[[Category:University of Michigan alumni]]\n[[Category:Members of the American Philosophical Society]]\n[[Category:Engineers from Ohio]]\n[[Category:20th-century American engineers]]"}
{"id": "6197859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6197859", "title": "Hermann Friedmann", "text": "Hermann Friedmann\n\nAdolph Hermann Friedmann (11 April 1873, Białystok – 25 May 1957, Heidelberg) was a Polish-German philosopher and jurist, Finnish citizen from 1906.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4083603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4083603", "title": "Indigo (film)", "text": "Indigo (film)\n\nIndigo is a 2003 American fantasy drama film produced and directed by Stephen Deutsch (credited as Stephen Simon). The film deals with the supposed phenomenon of \"indigo children\" — a set of children alleged to have certain \"special psychological and spiritual attributes\". Its release was sponsored by the Spiritual Cinema Circle, a DVD club that mails spiritually themed films to subscribers each month.\n\nAt the beginning of the story Ray Talloway (Neale Donald Walsch) is a construction manager whose business is near bankruptcy. His semi-estranged daughter Cheryl (Sarah Rutan) quarrels with him on the slightest pretext, while her husband Alex (Gregory Linington) is one of a small group of minor criminals. Cheryl and Alex have one daughter, Grace (shared role by Meghan McCandless as older Grace and Angelina Hess as younger Grace), who is the indigo child of the story, and who eventually reunites the family.\n\nOne night, Alex takes Cheryl to a \"party\" that promises something exciting to happen to the participants (presumably overuse of drugs). Cheryl is worried by leaving Grace alone in the car; therefore, Alex leaves to check on her. A few minutes later, a police detachment arrests every one of the criminals. Grace, who was asleep in the car, wakes and sees her mother taken to prison. Ray, who is asleep at home, receives a call from the police station informing him of his daughter's arrest. He goes to the police station, arriving deep in telephone conversation with one of his business partners, who warns him of protest by environmentalists at the site of one of his latest projects. This causes him to abandon his daughter at the station and drive to the site. The sight of the crowd protesting his efforts to eradicate a forest to make room for a new highway, combined with the effect of having his daughter arrested, causes him to experience a small nervous breakdown.\n\nHere, the film jumps ahead five years. In the interim, Ray has lost his job and is living at home alone, as the owner of a very old car which is on the verge of disintegration. Cheryl has been in jail for possession of illegal drugs even though she is innocent. Ray has neither come to visit her nor bailed her out of prison. Grace is living in a children's home superintended by a nurse (Saffron Henke). Alex has fled, possibly to Canada, and has not appeared since.\n\nA visit by her lawyer leaves Cheryl afraid for Grace's safety, the lawyer having intimated that Alex might kidnap Grace in exchange for money he believes to be in Cheryl's possession. After this scene is over, viewers see the lawyer walking to a car and accepting a bribe. Cheryl, who has not seen this, calls Ray asking that he visit her. When he arrives, Cheryl tells him of the lawyer's information and asks him to retrieve Grace and take care of her until Cheryl is released on parole. Ray does so, out of a sense of duty towards his daughter and guilt at being an inadequate father and grandfather. Upon her reappearance, Grace is revealed to have developed her supermundane abilities to the point where they are unsettling to Ray, who unceremoniously kidnaps her with her consent and aid. Having escaped, the two meet with Ray's girlfriend Sally (Lynette Louise), who temporarily harbors them. Ray and Grace later drive north to Ashland, Oregon, where they think to hide until Cheryl's parole takes effect. On the way, they spend the night in a hotel and begin to develop a bond. The hotel manager is astonished next morning when Grace brings his father, who suffers a severe case of Alzheimer's disease, into waking consciousness. He reacts with the accusation that it is the work of the devil, whereupon Ray and Grace leave, while the father and son begin to reconcile.\n\nAt a park, Grace befriends a lonely boy called Nicholas, who like her is one of the indigo children. The nature thereof is explained to Ray (and thus to the viewer) by Nicholas' mother while the children play.\n\nFurther north, Ray's car finally fails to operate so that he and Grace are forced to walk. They are befriended by a group of teenagers who are on their way to Mt. Ashland, one of whom is played by Neale's son, Karus Walsch, with whom they spend the night in a cabin. Karus's character, Logan, is disturbed by Grace's telling of a story of his childhood that revives painful memories. According to her, he could communicate with angels when he was a boy but suppressed his ability when his older brother beat him whenever he talked about it. Another one of the teenagers, Emma, expresses skepticism and anger at Grace's powers, especially when Grace claims to see the spirit of Emma's mother; later, Emma accepts Grace's ways and becomes grateful.\n\nWhen Ray and Grace arrive at the arranged cabin, they find to Ray's surprise that it is occupied by Ray's long-estranged son Stewart (Dane Bowman). Stewart is there to collect the money that he thinks Cheryl hid and believes that Grace knows where it is. He takes her hostage; at this, Ray claims that Grace requires a medicine that is in his suitcase. Stewart allows Ray to open the suitcase, in which is no medicine but a pistol, with which Ray intends to frighten his son. As Ray reaches for the pistol, he suddenly recalls his past and reconsiders his decision. He attempts to apologize to Stewart, but Stewart refuses to accept this. An arrival of two police officers at the cabin surprises them all, with the exception of Grace, who had summoned them. Grace reveals that the younger of the two, Officer Whitfield, was one of the officers who had captured Cheryl, and that he has illegally been using the money Stewart sought.\n\nThe film ends with the reconciliation and reunion of the family.\n\n\nThe film was released in the US on January 28, 2005, and played in 603 locations, where it grossed $1,190,000. The film was distributed primarily to New Thought churches, which shared in the film's revenue.\n\nWriting in \"Luminous: The Spiritual Life on Film\", Mike King called the film \"crass and alienated beyond belief\". King described its lack of emotion as \"a product of cultural autism\" and said that the film reveals New Age anxieties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34396122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34396122", "title": "Ivan Seliminski", "text": "Ivan Seliminski\n\nDr. Ivan Seliminski (1799-1866) was a prominent Bulgarian philosopher, scholar, teacher and medical doctor.\n\nHe was born in Sliven in 1799. Later he took the name of this town as his surname. His early school years were spent in a Greek school in Sliven. His secondary education was in Kidonia. He traveled in Europe.\n\nSeliminski returned to Sliven in 1825. He opened a school in which he taught physics. His school became one of the first Bulgarian lower level secondary schools.\n\nOn the eve of the Russian-Turkish War (1828 - 1829) he organized many Bulgarians to support the Russian army. With the creation of revolutionary organizations in Sliven and some other cities, Seliminski became the first major Bulgarian revolutionary. After the war Seliminski participated in Russian delegations. Many Bulgarian people left their homes and emigrated to the other side of the Danube in Vlahia. Ivan Seliminski opened a school and was a teacher in New Sliven (now Berjazka) and Bucharest.\n\nFrom 1840 to 1844 Seliminski studied medicine in Athens. After that he traveled to Paris (1845) and practiced as a medical doctor in Bucharest, Braila and Bessarabia until the end of his life (1845 - 1866).\n\n"}
{"id": "29554219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29554219", "title": "James Higginbotham", "text": "James Higginbotham\n\nJames Higginbotham FBA (17 August 1941 – 25 April 2014) was a distinguished professor of Linguistics and Philosophy at the University of Southern California. Beforehand, he was Professor of Linguistics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and at the University of Oxford, where he was head of the Linguistics Department.\n\n\nHigginbotham edited the Journal of Philosophy (along with others) when he was on the faculty at Columbia University, one of the most authoritative philosophy journals in USA. He was also the editor of the OUP series in cognitive science and the associate editor of Pragmatics and Cognition.\n\nJames Higginbotham, like Sir Peter Strawson, had a reputation in Oxford as a very strict teacher. Noam Chomsky, speaking about James Higginbotham, used to say that he was a very constructive teacher.\n\n"}
{"id": "34301985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34301985", "title": "Jeonju Hyanggyo", "text": "Jeonju Hyanggyo\n\nThe Jeonju Hyanggyo is a hyanggyo (school) originally established at the Gyeonggijeon Shrine site in Jeonju, Korea, sometime early in the 15th century, during the Joseon Dynasty (1392-1910). Gyeonggijeon Shrine was erected in 1410 so construction of the Jeonju Hyanggyo had to follow sometime later.\n\nAt the time of the Second Japanese Invasion in 1592 the Gyeonggijeon Shrine and the Jeonju Hyanggyo were completely destroyed. In 1603 the hyanggyo was moved to and rebuilt at its present Jeonju location.\n\nUnlike the more typical hyanggyo Jeonhakhumyo style described above at the Goheung Hyanggyo, The Jeonju Hyanggyo employees the less conventional style of being placed on level ground. The memorial enshrinement area centers on the Daeseongjeon (Confucian shrine hall) in the front, while the educational area centers on the Myeongyundang (lecture hall) that is located the rear. This is an unusual configuration for a hyanggyo. In all, there are a total of 99 rooms at the Jeonju Hyanggyo.\n\nThe Jeonju Hyanggyo is designated historical treasure #379.\n"}
{"id": "33658289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33658289", "title": "Johannes Magirus", "text": "Johannes Magirus\n\nJohannes Magirus (c. 1560 – 1596) was a German physician and natural philosopher. He was born at Fritzlar about 1560; his background was Lutheran. He studied at the University of Padua, and took a medical degree at the University of Marburg in 1585.\n\n"}
{"id": "50659312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50659312", "title": "John Hadley (philosopher)", "text": "John Hadley (philosopher)\n\nJohn Hadley (born 27 September 1966) is an Australian philosopher whose research concerns moral and political philosophy, including animal ethics, environmental ethics and metaethics. He is currently a senior lecturer in philosophy in the School of Humanities and Communication Arts at Western Sydney University. He has previously taught at Charles Sturt University and the University of Sydney, where he studied as an undergraduate and doctoral candidate. In addition to a variety of articles in peer-reviewed journals and edited collections, he is the author of the 2015 monograph \"Animal Property Rights\" (Lexington Books) and the co-editor, with Elisa Aaltola, of the 2015 collection \"Animal Ethics and Philosophy\" (Rowman & Littlefield International). \n\nHadley is known for his account of animal property rights theory. He proposes that wild animals be offered property rights over their territories, and that guardians be appointed to represent their interests in decision-making procedures. He suggests that this account could be justified directly, on the basis of the interests of the animals concerned, or indirectly, so that natural environments are protected. The theory has received discussion in popular and academic contexts, with critical responses from farming groups and mixed responses from moral and political theorists. Hadley has also conducted research on normative issues related to animal rights extremism, the aiding of others and utilitarianism.\n\nHadley read for a bachelor of arts and doctorate in philosophy at the University of Sydney (USYD). His doctoral thesis was supervised by Caroline West, in USYD's Department of Philosophy, and was submitted in 2006 under the title of \"Animal Property: Reconciling Ecological Communitarianism and Species-egalitarian Liberalism\". During his doctoral research, the \"basic elements\" of his animal property rights theory were \"first assembled\", leading to the publication of \"Nonhuman Animal Property: Reconciling Environmentalism and Animal Rights\" in the \"Journal of Social Philosophy\". During this time, he also published in the \"Journal of Value Inquiry\", \"Philosophy in the Contemporary World\", and the \"Journal of Applied Philosophy\", as well as working as a lecturer in the USYD philosophy department and a guest lecturer for the USYD Laboratory Animal Services.\n\nAfter his PhD, Hadley worked as a lecturer in communication ethics in the Charles Sturt University (CSU) School of Communication and a lecturer in philosophy at the CSU School of Humanities and Social Sciences. He then joined the University of Western Sydney School of Humanities and Communication Arts, first as a lecturer in philosophy, and then as a senior lecturer in philosophy. \"Animal Ethics and Philosophy: Questioning the Orthodoxy\", a collection edited by Hadley with the Finnish philosopher Elisa Aaltola, was published in 2015 by Rowman & Littlefield International. The book aimed to move debate in animal ethics beyond developing extentionist accounts and to examine the metaphilosophical and metaethical problems with extentionist accounts. Hadley's own contribution drew attention to a perceived inconsistent triad in animal rights philosophy: the idea that moral status is determined by psychological factors (like sentience), and not species; that human and nonhuman animals are of the same kind; and that genomic plasticity offers the best explanation for change in natural selection. In the same year, Hadley published a monograph with Lexington Books entitled \"Animal Property Rights: A Theory of Territory Rights for Wild Animals\". The book, partially building upon his doctoral research, presents a large amount of new material on Hadley's animal property rights theory.\n\nHadley is known for his theory of animal property rights, according to which animals should be afforded property rights over their territory. Hadley has developed his theory of animal property rights through his doctoral research, his 2015 monograph, and other academic works. In addition, he has authored popular articles on the subject for \"The Guardian\", \"The Conversation\" and The Ethics Centre. He also discussed the topic on \"Knowing Animals\", a podcast series produced by Siobhan O'Sullivan. His proposal has received attention in the popular press, with strong criticism from farmers' groups and journalists writing on rural affairs.\n\nThe practical side of Hadley's proposal rests on two key principles: a guardianship system, according to which knowledgeable guardians would be appointed to represent animal property holders in land management decision-making, and the use of animals' territory-marking behaviour to determine the limits of their property. Hadley rejects first occupancy and labour-mixing accounts of appropriation, and instead suggests that there are two ways that his account might fruitfully be justified. First, it might be justified directly, with reference to the interests of animals. This relies upon the fact that wild animals require their territory in order to satisfy their basic needs and the claim that this results in an interest in territory strong enough to ground a right. If animals have a right to use their territory, Hadley claims, then they necessarily have a property right in that territory. Second, it might be justified indirectly, as animals (of some species, at least) might be given property rights as a means of protecting natural environments. Hadley presents his proposal against the backdrop of an explicit pragmatism, and holds that animal property rights theory has the potential to reconcile animal and environmental ethics.\n\nHadley's proposal has been placed in the context of the \"political turn\" in animal ethics; the emergence of animal ethics literature focused on justice. Another academic who has proposed that wild animals be afforded property rights over their habitats is the British philosopher Steve Cooke. Like Hadley, he utilises an interest-based account of animal rights, but, unlike Hadley, he suggests that sovereignty would be an appropriate tool to protect animals' interest in their habitat if property fails. Other theorists exploring the normative aspects of human relationships with wild animals explicitly deny that they are extending property rights to animals. The US-based ethicist Clare Palmer, for instance, argues for a duty to respect wild animals' space, but claims that arguing for a property right for these animals would be \"difficult\", and instead bases her account on the fact that human actions can make animals \"painful, miserable and vulnerable\".\n\nThe Canadian theorists Sue Donaldson and Will Kymlicka are critical of Hadley's proposal to extend property rights to animals, claiming that property rights are insufficient to protect animals' interests. Instead, they argue that animals should be considered sovereign over their territories. They write that\n\nIt is one thing to say that a bird has a property right in its nest, or that a wolf has a property right in its den – specific bits of territory used exclusively by one animal family. But the habitat that animals need to survive extends far beyond such specific and exclusive bits of territory – animals often need to fly or roam over vast territories shared by many other animals. Protecting a bird’s nest is of little help if the nearby watering holes are polluted, or if tall buildings block its flight path. It’s not clear how ideas of property rights can help here.\n\nThey also compare the possibility of extending property rights to animals to the approach of European colonists, who were prepared to extend property, but not sovereignty, rights to native peoples, resulting in oppression. Hadley, however, is himself critical of Donaldson and Kymlicka's sovereignty proposal, though the British philosopher Josh Milburn suggests that the proposals may not be as far apart as the authors indicate.\n\nThe British political theorist Alasdair Cochrane also questions the extension of property rights to animals. Though describing Hadley's proposal as \"ingenious\", he criticises it on two grounds. First, he questions Hadley's claim of a relationship between property and basic needs, and, second, denies that animal property rights would appease environmentalists, given that they would allow the destruction of environments which do not contain sentient animals. In a book review, Milburn stresses the significance of Hadley's theory, but questions the extent to which the implementation of animal property rights would be desirable without the achievement of other animal rights and the extent to which Hadley's account is genuinely about \"property\" rights.\n\nHadley has considered the ethics of humans' relationships with wild animals and environments beyond his property rights theory. He argues that there is a duty to aid wild animals in need, and that these duties are essentially no different to humans' duties to aid distant strangers who are severely cognitively impaired. He argues that libertarian property rights, consistent with Robert Nozick's interpretation of the Lockean proviso, should limit the right to destroy human-owned natural environments, and has elsewhere explored libertarian theory's denial of moral powers (including the power to acquire property) to animals.\n\nHadley has conducted research on animal rights extremism, concluding that the phenomenon is a complex one, and that a full understanding of individual extremists' intentions and targets are necessary to understand the ethical acceptability of extremist acts and whether such acts are appropriately classified as terrorism. He holds that while direct action should be tolerated in liberal democracies, this toleration should not extend to certain campaigning tactics used by extremists, such as threat-making.\n\nWith O'Sullivan, Hadley has conducted research on utilitarianism and the relationship between obligations to animals and obligations to needy humans. The scholars argue that there is a conflict in Singer's philosophy between the obligation to aid needy humans and to protect animals, and that Westerners who own pets should, rather than spending large amounts of money extending the lives of their companions, euthanise severely ill animals and instead donate money to aiding those in the developing world.\n\nHadley has been critical of the metaethical and metaphilosophical stances of mainstream animal ethicists, as well as the views of Tibor Machan and J. Baird Callicott. He has also written on J. M. Coetzee, the ethics of \"disenhancing\" animals, the ethics of animal testing, and the relationship of self-defence theory to abortion and animal ethics.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45112946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45112946", "title": "Maarten Boudry", "text": "Maarten Boudry\n\nMaarten Boudry (born 15 August 1984) is a Flemish philosopher and skeptic. He has been a researcher and teaching member of the Department of Philosophy and Moral Sciences at Ghent University since 2006. To date, he has published over 30 articles in various philosophy of science journals.\n\nBoudry began his studies in philosophy at Ghent University in 2002, where he graduated cum laude in 2006. Between 2007 and 2011, he conducted research at Ghent University (Logic, History and Philosophy of Science), funded by a research grant from the Flemish foundation Fonds Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek (FWO). After obtaining his PhD, he became a postdoctoral fellow at Ghent University, again with the financial support of the FWO. In 2013, he was also a postdoctoral fellow at the Konrad Lorenz Institute in Vienna for six months, where he worked on the philosophical underpinnings of irrationality. Boudry has undertaken many foreign study visits. Additionally, he is a frequent speaker at international conferences and gives guest lectures at academic institutions.\n\nBoudry is a member of a number of scientifically-oriented organizations: the Flemish skeptical organization SKEPP, the Society for the Scientific Study of Religion, the Center for Inquiry and the Imperfect Cognition research network of the Epistemic Innocence Project. He is also one of the founders of Het Denkgelag, which organizes skeptical conferences in Flanders.\n\nIn 2011, Boudry pulled a Sokal-style hoax. Boudry wanted to put Christian philosophers to the test by writing a meaningless abstract, full of theological jargon, with the title \"The Paradoxes of Darwinian Disorder. Towards an Ontological Reaffirmation of Order and Transcendence\". The abstract contained sentences such as, \"In the Darwinian perspective, order is not immanent in reality, but it is a self-affirming aspect of reality in so far as it is experienced by situated subjects.\" Under the anagram-pseudonym Robert A. Maundy from the fictitious College of the Holy Cross in Reno, Nevada, Boudry submitted the abstract to the organizers of the Christian philosophical conference \"The Future of Creation Order\" at the VU University Amsterdam and the Centre of Theology and Philosophy at the University of Nottingham, which both accepted it without any reservations. The hoax, which Boudry revealed in mid-2012 on Facebook but became more widely known only after the American scientist Jerry Coyne blogged about it, received attention in a number of Dutch Protestant newspapers such as \"Reformatorisch Dagblad\", \"Trouw\", and \"Nederlands Dagblad\".\n\nWhen asked in an interview with the Dutch popular philosophy magazine \"Filosofie Magazine\" about the reason for the hoax, Boudry said the following:\nNo one had discovered that \"Robert A. Maundy\" and the \"College of the Holy Cross\" did not exist. Gerrit Glas, president of the conference at the time, found the text to be odd and said they had hesitated for a long time, but ultimately decided to give \"Maundy\" the benefit of the doubt. Glas admitted that he should have been more critical and defended himself by saying that \"it is not uncommon for texts on process theology, negative theology, and postmodernism to be \". Philosopher of religion Taede A. Smedes at the Radboud University Nijmegen considered Boudry's action to be unworthy of an academic, but also found it astonishing that the conference organizers had accepted the text: \"Anyone who makes the simple effort to understand the first sentences of abstract (if that is even possible), will immediately notice that it is incomprehensible nonsense.\"\n\nMaarten Boudry is mainly known for his skepticism and critical attitude toward pseudoscience. As a philosopher of science, one of his main interests is the study of pseudoscience in all its forms and expressions. He studies the fallibility of human reasoning that might underlie pseudoscience and irrationality. Boudry characterizes pseudoscience as \"an imitation of real science\". In his MA thesis, entitled \"De naakte Keizers van de Psychoanalyse\" (The Naked Emperors of Psychoanalysis), he explains why he classifies psychoanalysis as a pseudoscience and which immunizing strategies this school of thought has developed over the years to withstand criticism. Together with philosopher Johan Braeckman he wrote the book \"De ongelovige Thomas heeft een punt\" (Doubting Thomas has a point), in which they offer arguments against parascience and pseudoscience, blind faith, wishful thinking, astrology, irrationality, psychokinesis, and dowsing, as they consider these ideas to be grounded in logical fallacies. The title refers to the attitude of Thomas the Apostle, who was initially skeptical when he was told that Jesus had been resurrected. In an interview, Boudry said:\nIn publications and debates, Boudry also criticizes religion, intelligent design, and theology. In 2014, during the Dutch Nationale Religiedebat (National Religion Debate), philosophers Maarten Boudry and Herman Philipse (both of whom are atheists) debated Stefan Paas and Rik Peels on the question of whether belief in a god is reasonable and what the impact of nonbelief on morality is. Boudry also debated Christian philosopher Emanuel Rutten during the Denkcafé debate \"Does God Exist?\" in December 2012, where he said the following:\n\nMaarten Boudry has published a considerable number of articles in both peer-reviewed philosophical journals and in public print media (newspapers and magazines). Some of his conference presentations are publicly available as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31170249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31170249", "title": "Maurizio Ferraris", "text": "Maurizio Ferraris\n\nMaurizio Ferraris (born February 7, 1956 in Turin) is an Italian continental philosopher and scholar. \n\nHis name is attached to the philosophical current named \"new realism\" (he wrote the \"Manifesto of New Realism\" in 2012, published by SUNY Press in 2014), that shares significant similarities with speculative realism and object oriented ontology. A pupil of Gianni Vattimo, and influenced by Jacques Derrida, he started as a theorist of hermeneutics before turning his attention to the analytic strand. Over the years he has been able to create an effective synthesis between the two approaches, creating a new ontological realism that rejects Kant's schematism in the cognitive area.\n\nSince 1995 Ferraris has been full Professor of Philosophy in the Department of Literature and Philosophy at the University of Turin, where he also runs the LabOnt (Laboratory for Ontology). He studied in Turin, Paris and Heidelberg and has taught at major European Universities. He is the director of the Rivista di Estetica and is part of the directive committee of Critique and aut aut. From 1989 to 2010 he has written for the cultural supplement of Il Sole 24 ORE; since 2010 he has been writing for the cultural section of la Repubblica. His main areas of expertise are hermeneutics, aesthetics and ontology.\n\nFerraris graduated from Philosophy at the University of Turin in 1979, under the guidance of Gianni Vattimo. In the early years of his career he divided his time between teaching, research and cultural journalism. From 1979 to 1988 he has been an editor, and then co-director, of Alfabeta, whose directive committee includes, among others, Antonio Porta, Nanni Balestrini, Maria Corti, Umberto Eco, Francesco Leonetti, Pier Aldo Rovatti and Paolo Volponi. In the early eighties he began his relationship with Derrida, who deeply marked his philosophical training. On the academic level, in 1984, after two years of teaching in Macerata (1982–83), he began to teach in Trieste, interspersing his didactic activities with a series of stays in Heidelberg. Here, after getting in contact with Gadamer, he started his studies in hermeneutics.\n\nIn 1995, Ferraris was called in Turin, as a full Professor of Aesthetics, and later began teaching Metaphysics (Filosofia teoretica) in 1999. While working as a director of program (i.e. teacher) at the Collège international de philosophie from 1998 to 2004, in 1999 he founded the Laboratory for Ontology (LabOnt) and the Inter-University Centre for Theoretical and Applied Ontology (CTAO). Currently Ferraris is full Professor of Philosophy at the University of Turin, where he is also the President of the LabOnt (Laboratory for Ontology) and of the Centre for Theoretical and Applied Ontology (CTAO). He is a Fellow of Käte Hamburger Kolleg “Recht als Kultur” (Bonn) and a Honorary Fellow of the Center for Advanced Studies of South East Europe (Rijeka). Ferraris has been Fellow of the Italian Academy for Advanced Studies in America and of the Alexander von Humboldt Stiftung. He has also been Directeur d’études of the Collège International de Philosophie and a Visiting Professor at the École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales (Paris) as well as other European and American Universities.\n\nFerraris is a columnist for ‘La Repubblica’, the Director of ‘Rivista di Estetica’, and the Co-director of ‘Critique’ and the ‘Revue francophone d’esthétique’. He wrote more than fifty books that have been translated into several languages. The books that have appeared in English are: \"History of Hermeneutics\" (Humanities Press, 1996), \"Documentality or Why it is Necessary to Leave Traces\" (Fordham UP, 2012), \"Goodbye Kant!\" (SUNY UP, 2013); \"Where Are You? An Ontology of the Cell Phone\" (Fordham UP, 2015) and \"Manifesto of New Realism\" (SUNY UP, 2015). Maurizio Ferraris has worked in the field of aesthetics, hermeneutics and social ontology, attaching his name to the theory of documentality, and contemporary new realism.\n\nFerraris’ early interests lay in French post-structuralist philosophy, with special attention to authors such as Jean-François Lyotard, Michel Foucault, Jacques Lacan and Gilles Deleuze. A special role in the formation of his thought was undoubtedly played by Jacques Derrida, with whom Ferraris has maintained a relationship of research, later turned into a friendship, since 1981. Evidence of this phase of his thought can be found in his early works: \"Differenze\" (1981), \"Tracce\" (1983) and \"La svolta testuale (\"1984). Ferraris has specifically dedicated to Derrida: \"Postille a Derrida (\"1990), \"Honoris causa a Derrida\" (1998), I\"ntroduzione a Derrida\" (2003), \"Il gusto del segreto\" (1997) [A Taste for the Secret, Blackwell 2001] and, finally, \"Jackie Derrida. Ritratto a memoria\" (2006). While working with Gadamer, starting in the early eighties, Ferraris then turned to hermeneutics, writing: \"Aspetti dell’ermeneutica del Novecento\" (1986), \"Ermeneutica di Proust\" (1987), \"Nietzsche e la filosofia del Novecento\" (1989) and especially \"Storia dell’ermeneutica\" (1988) \"History of Hermeneutics\", Humanities Press, 1996\n\nAt the end of the eighties, Ferraris developed an articulated critique of Heidegger and Gadamer's tradition (see, in particular, \"Cronistoria di una svolta\", the 1990 afterword to Heidegger’s conference “The Turn”), which makes use of post-structuralism to challenge the romantic and idealistic legacy affecting such tradition. The conclusion of this critical path led the philosopher to the reconsideration of the relationship between the spirit and the letter as well as to a reversal of their traditional opposition. Oftentimes, both philosophers and ordinary people despise the letter (the rules and constraints instituted through documents and inscriptions of various kinds) and set the spirit (i.e. thought and will) above it, recognizing the creative freedom of the latter as opposed to the former. For Ferraris, it is the letter that precedes and founds the spirit. Thus occurred the transition to the second phase of the thought of the Italian philosopher.\n\nFerraris abandoned hermeneutic relativism and Derridean deconstruction to embrace a form of realistic objectivism according to which \"objectivity and reality, considered by radical hermeneutics as principles of violence and abuse, are in fact – and precisely because of the contraposition between spirit and letter mentioned above – the only protection against arbitrariness\". This principle, which applies to morals, is based on the acknowledgement of a sphere of reality that is independent of interpretations (see, in particular, L’ermeneutica, 1998). The external world, recognized as unamendable, and the relationship between conceptual schemes and sensory experience (aesthetics, restored to its etymological meaning of \"science of sensory perception\", acquires a primary significance – see, in particular, Analogon rationis (1994 ), Estetica (1996, with other authors), L’immaginazione (1996), Experimentelle Ästhetik (2001) and Estetica razionale (1997)) are the dominant themes of the second phase of Ferraris’ thought, which involves a re-reading of Kant through the naive physics of the perceptologist Paolo Bozzi (see Il mondo esterno (2001) and Goodbye Kant!(2004, forthcoming for SUNY Press)). Ferraris’ \"critical ontology\" recognizes the world of everyday life as largely impenetrable compared to conceptual schemes. The failure to acknowledge this principle traces back to the confusion between ontology (the sphere of being) and epistemology (the sphere of knowledge); such confusion is critically thematised by Ferraris starting from the character of unamendability that is typical of being as opposed to knowledge (see in particular: Ontologia (2003) and Storia dell’ontologia (2008, with other authors)). His reflection on realism led, in 2011, to the elaboration of the Manifesto of New Realism.\n\nThe natural outcome of critical ontology is the twofold acknowledgement of the external world as unamendable and of the domain of objects which Kantian transcendental philosophy rightly applies to: that of social objects. This new phase of Ferraris’ thought was ideally inaugurated with the publication of Dove sei? Ontologia del telefonino (2005) [Where are you? Ontology of the Cell Phone, forthcoming for Fordham UP] and went on with Babbo Natale, Gesù adulto (2006), Sans Papier (2007), La fidanzata automatica (2007) and Il tunnel delle multe (2008). The basic thesis is that the distinction between ontology and epistemology, combined with the acknowledgment of the ontological autonomy of the sphere of social objects (regulated by the constitutive law \"object = inscribed act\"), allows for the correction of Derrida's thesis that \"there is nothing outside the text \"(literally, and asemantically,\"there is no outside text\") so as to theorize, against Searle, that “there is nothing social outside the text.\" This leads to the mature stage of Ferraris’ thought, fully exposed and systematized in what may be considered his summa: Documentalità. Perché è necessario lasciar tracce (2009) [Documentality. Why It Is Necessary to Leave Traces, Fordham UP, 2010] - and a monographic issue of the ‚“Monist“ (Edited by Maurizio Ferraris and Leonardo Caffo).\n\nThe most influential ontology of social reality, formulated by the American philosopher John Searle (1995), is based on collective intentionality, which allegedly ensures that certain physical objects (e.g. a piece of paper) are transformed into social objects (e.g. a banknote). As noted by Barry Smith (2003), this perspective has difficulty in accounting for both negative entities – such as debts, which apparently do not have a physical counterpart – and the new, seemingly intangible, social objects generated by the Web. The theory of documentality proposed by Maurizio Ferraris (2005) aims to solve these problems by arguing that social objects are always recordings of social acts. This accounts for both negative entities and the virtual entities of the web, which consist precisely of recordings just like any other social object. For the theory of documentality, the constitutive rule of social reality is \"Object = Inscribed Act\", where “inscribed” is equal to “recorded”. That is: a social object is the result of a social act (such as to involve at least two people), which is characterized by its being recorded on some support, including the minds of the people involved in the act (in the case of informal social acts such as promises).\n\nArticulated by Ferraris (2009) in a complete ontological theory and by Smith ( 2012) in a theory of document acts, documentality has three main reasons of interest. First, it has been able to account for the substantial growth of documents and recording devices in the Web world, which is very well explained by the proposed constitutive law of social reality. Secondly, it has been able to explain why social reality, while requiring the presence of subjects for the enactment of acts, may develop independently from them and even without their knowledge (an economic recession can be taking place even if no human subject is aware of it). Third, instead of making social reality depend on the action of collective intentionality – with an increasing social constructivism (Searle 2010) – documentality is capable of substantiating a \"new realism\" (Ferraris, 2012) that helps continental philosophy come out of the impasses of postmodernism and reconnect with analytic philosophy. [Source of this description of documentality: L. Caffo, \"From Documentality to New Realism\", in \"The Monist\", 97:2 April 2014].\n\nThe realist turn carried out by Maurizio Ferraris starting from the formulation of aesthetics not as philosophy of art, but as ontology of perception and sensory experience (Estetica razionale 1997 new edition 2011), finds a further declination in the Manifesto del nuovo realismo (2012) [Manifesto of new realism, SUNY Press, 2014]. New Realism – the principles of which were anticipated by Ferraris in an article published in La Repubblica on August 8, 2011 and which then started a massive debate – is primarily a consideration of some historical, cultural and political phenomena (i.e. the analysis of postmodernism up to its deteriorating into media populism). From these reflections follows the urge to shed light over the outcomes produced by the derivations of postmodernism within contemporary thought (i.e. the interpretation of philosophical realisms and \"theories of truth\" that developed starting from the end of last century in response to a deviation of the relationship between the individual and reality). This, in turn, leads to the proposal of an antidote to the degeneration of postmodernist ideology and the degraded and mendacious relationship with the world that it has caused: New Realism, in fact, identifies itself with the synergistic action of three key words, Ontology, Critique and Enlightenment. New Realism has been the subject of several debates and national and international conferences and has called for a series of publications that involve the concept of reality as a paradigm even in non-philosophical areas. In fact, the debate on new realism, for number of contributions and media response, has no equivalent in the recent cultural history, to the point of being chosen as 'case study' for the analysis of the sociology of communication and linguistics.\n\nIn the international arena, the Manifesto of new realism can be found in several translations: English (SUNYI Press), French (Hermann), German (Klostermann), Spanish (Biblioteca Nueva) ecc. New realism was discussed in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, in the Neue Zürcher Zeitung and the Süddeutsche Zeitung. A monographic issue of the ‚“Monist“ (Edited by Maurizio Ferraris and Mario De Caro) will also shortly appear. Furthermore, the topic was re-elaborated both in Warum es die Welt nicht gibt by Markus Gabriel (Berlin, Ullstein Verlag 2013) and in Manifiesto del nuevo realismo analógico (Buenos Aires, Circulo Herméneutico 2013) by Mauricio Beuchot (México-UNAM) and José Luis Jerez (Argentina-UNCo).\n\nHistory: \nIn the frame of hermeneutics, as a reaction against its constructivist or nihilistic outcomes, Maurizio Ferraris has proposed the so-called \"New Realism\" (Manifesto del nuovo realismo, 2012), a philosophical orientation shared by both analytic philosophers – such as Mario De Caro (see Bentornata Realtà, ed by De Caro and Ferraris, 2012), and continental philosophers, such as Mauricio Beuchot (Manifesto del realismo analogico, 2013), and Markus Gabriel (Fields of Sense: A New Realist Ontology, 2014). New Realism also garnered the support of great thinkers such as Umberto Eco, Hilary Putnam and John Searle, intersecting with other realistic movements that arose independently but responding to similar needs, such as the \"speculative realism\" defended by the French philosopher Quentin Meillassoux and the American philosopher Graham Harman. For New Realism, the fact that it is becoming increasingly clear that science is not systematically the ultimate measure of truth and reality does not mean that we should say goodbye to reality, truth or objectivity, as was posited by much twentieth century philosophy. Rather, it means that philosophy, as well as jurisprudence, linguistics or history, has something important and true to say about the world.\n\nIn this context, New Realism presents itself primarily as a negative realism: the resistance that the outside world opposes to our conceptual schemes should not be seen as a failure, but as a resource – a proof of the existence of an independent world. If this is the case, however, this negative realism turns into a positive realism: in resisting us reality does not merely set a limit we cannot trespass, but it also offers opportunities and resources. This explains how, in the natural world, different life-forms can interact in the same environment without sharing any conceptual scheme and how, in the social world, human intentions and behaviors are made possible by a reality that is first given, and that only at a later time may be interpreted and, if necessary, transformed. Now that the season of postmodernism has died out, New Realism expresses the widespread need for renewal in extra-disciplinary areas such as architecture, literature, pedagogy and medicine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39127306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39127306", "title": "Mechanism (philosophy)", "text": "Mechanism (philosophy)\n\nMechanism is the belief that natural wholes (principally living things) are like complicated machines or artifacts, composed of parts lacking any intrinsic relationship to each other. Thus, the source of an apparent thing's activities is not the whole itself, but its parts or an external influence on the parts.\n\nThe doctrine of mechanism in philosophy comes in two different flavors. They are both doctrines of metaphysics, but they are different in scope and ambitions: the first is a global doctrine about nature; the second is a local doctrine about humans and their minds, which is hotly contested. For clarity, we might distinguish these two doctrines as universal mechanism and anthropic mechanism.\n\nThe older doctrine, here called universal mechanism, is the ancient philosophies closely linked with materialism and reductionism, especially that of the atomists and to a large extent, stoic physics. They held that the universe is reducible to completely mechanical principles—that is, the motion and collision of matter. Later mechanists believed the achievements of the scientific revolution had shown that all phenomena could eventually be explained in terms of 'mechanical' laws, natural laws governing the motion and collision of matter that implied a thorough going determinism: if \"all\" phenomena could be explained \"entirely\" through the motion of matter under the laws of classical physics, then even more surely than the gears of a clock determine that it must strike 2:00 an hour after striking 1:00, \"all\" phenomena must be completely determined: whether past, present or future. (One of the philosophical implications of modern quantum mechanics is that this view of determinism is not defensible.)\n\nThe French mechanist and determinist Pierre Simon de Laplace formulated the sweeping implications of this thesis by saying:\n\nOne of the first and most famous expositions of universal mechanism is found in the opening passages of \"Leviathan\" by Thomas Hobbes (1651). What is less frequently appreciated is that René Descartes was a staunch mechanist, though today, in the philosophy of mind, he is remembered for introducing the mind–body problem in terms of dualism and physicalism.\n\nDescartes was a substance dualist, and argued that reality was composed of two radically different types of substance: extended matter, on the one hand, and immaterial mind, on the other. Descartes argued that one cannot explain the conscious mind in terms of the spatial dynamics of mechanistic bits of matter cannoning off each other. Nevertheless, his understanding of biology was thoroughly mechanistic in nature:\n\nHis scientific work was based on the traditional mechanistic understanding that animals and humans are completely mechanistic automata. Descartes' dualism was motivated by the seeming impossibility that mechanical dynamics could yield mental experiences.\n\nIsaac Newton ushered in a much weaker acceptation of mechanism that tolerated the antithetical, and as yet inexplicable, action at a distance of gravity. However, his work seemed to successfully predict the motion of both celestial and terrestrial bodies according to that principle, and the generation of philosophers who were inspired by Newton's example carried the mechanist banner nonetheless. Chief among them were French philosophers such as Julien Offray de La Mettrie and Denis Diderot (see also: French materialism).\n\nThe thesis in anthropic mechanism is not that everything can be completely explained in mechanical terms (although some anthropic mechanists may \"also\" believe that), but rather that everything \"about human beings\" can be completely explained in mechanical terms, as surely as can everything about clocks or the internal combustion engine.\n\nOne of the chief obstacles that all mechanistic theories have faced is providing a mechanistic explanation of the human mind; Descartes, for one, endorsed dualism in spite of endorsing a completely mechanistic conception of the material world because he argued that mechanism and the notion of a mind were logically incompatible. Hobbes, on the other hand, conceived of the mind and the will as purely mechanistic, completely explicable in terms of the effects of perception and the pursuit of desire, which in turn he held to be completely explicable in terms of the materialistic operations of the nervous system. Following Hobbes, other mechanists argued for a thoroughly mechanistic explanation of the mind, with one of the most influential and controversial expositions of the doctrine being offered by Julien Offray de La Mettrie in his \"Man a Machine\" (1748).\n\nToday, as in the past, the main points of debate between anthropic mechanists and anti-mechanists are mainly occupied with two topics: the mind — and consciousness, in particular — and free will. Anti-mechanists argue that anthropic mechanism is incompatible with our commonsense intuitions: in philosophy of mind they argue that unconscious matter cannot completely explain the phenomenon of consciousness, and in metaphysics they argue that anthropic mechanism implies determinism about human action, which (they argue) is incompatible with our understanding of ourselves as creatures with free will. Contemporary philosophers who have argued for this position include Norman Malcolm and\nDavid Chalmers.\n\nAnthropic mechanists typically respond in one of two ways. In the first, they agree with anti-mechanists that mechanism conflicts with some of our commonsense intuitions, but go on to argue that our commonsense intuitions are simply mistaken and need to be revised. Down this path lies eliminative materialism in philosophy of mind, and hard determinism on the question of free will. This option is accepted by the eliminative materialist philosopher Paul Churchland. Some have questioned how eliminative materialism is compatible with the freedom of will apparently required for anyone (including its adherents) to make truth claims. The second option, common amongst philosophers who adopt anthropic mechanism, is to argue that the arguments given for incompatibility are specious: whatever it is we mean by \"consciousness\" and \"free will,\" they urge, it is fully compatible with a mechanistic understanding of the human mind and will. As a result, they tend to argue for one or another non-eliminativist physicalist theories of mind, and for compatibilism on the question of free will. Contemporary philosophers who have argued for this sort of account include J. J. C. Smart and Daniel Dennett.\n\nSome scholars have debated over what, if anything, Gödel's incompleteness theorems imply about anthropic mechanism. Much of the debate centers on whether the human mind is equivalent to a Turing machine, or by the Church-Turing thesis, any finite machine at all. If it is, and if the machine is consistent, then Gödel's incompleteness theorems would apply to it.\n\nGödelian arguments claim that a system of human mathematicians (or some idealization of human mathematicians) is both consistent and powerful enough to recognize its own consistency. Since this is impossible for a Turing machine, the Gödelian concludes that human reasoning must be non-mechanical.\n\nHowever, the modern consensus in the scientific and mathematical community is that actual human reasoning is inconsistent; that any consistent \"idealized version\" \"H\" of human reasoning would logically be forced to adopt a healthy but counter-intuitive open-minded skepticism about the consistency of \"H\" (otherwise \"H\" is provably inconsistent); and that Gödel's theorems do not lead to any valid argument against mechanism. This consensus that Gödelian anti-mechanist arguments are doomed to failure is laid out strongly in \"Artificial Intelligence\": \"\"any\" attempt to utilize (Gödel's incompleteness results) to attack the computationalist thesis is bound to be illegitimate, since these results are quite consistent with the computationalist thesis.\"\n\nOne of the earliest attempts to use incompleteness to reason about human intelligence was by Gödel himself in his 1951 Gibbs Lecture entitled \"Some basic theorems on the foundations of mathematics and their philosophical implications\". In this lecture, Gödel uses the incompleteness theorem to arrive at the following disjunction: (a) the human mind is not a consistent finite machine, or (b) there exist Diophantine equations for which it cannot decide whether solutions exist. Gödel finds (b) implausible, and thus seems to have believed the human mind was not equivalent to a finite machine, i.e., its power exceeded that of any finite machine. He recognized that this was only a conjecture, since one could never disprove (b). Yet he considered the disjunctive conclusion to be a \"certain fact\".\n\nIn subsequent years, more direct anti-mechanist lines of reasoning were apparently floating around the intellectual atmosphere. In 1960, Hilary Putnam published a paper entitled \"Minds and Machines,\" in which he points out the flaws of a typical anti-mechanist argument. Informally, this is the argument that the (alleged) difference between \"what can be mechanically proven\" and \"what can be seen to be true by humans\" shows that human intelligence is not mechanical in nature. Or, as Putnam puts it:\n\nLet T be a Turing machine which \"represents\" me in the sense that T can prove just the mathematical statements I prove. Then using Gödel's technique I can discover a proposition that T cannot prove, and moreover I can prove this proposition. This refutes the assumption that T \"represents\" me, hence I am not a Turing machine.\n\nHilary Putnam objects that this argument ignores the issue of consistency. Gödel's technique can only be applied to consistent systems. It is conceivable, argues Putnam, that the human mind is inconsistent. If one is to use Gödel's technique to prove the proposition that T cannot prove, one must first prove (the mathematical statement representing) the consistency of T, a daunting and perhaps impossible task. Later Putnam suggested that while Gödel's theorems cannot be applied to humans, since they make mistakes and are therefore inconsistent, it may be applied to the human faculty of science or mathematics in general. If we are to believe that it is consistent, then either we cannot prove its consistency, or it cannot be represented by a Turing machine.\n\nJ. R. Lucas in \"Minds, Machines and Gödel\" (1961), and later in his book \"The Freedom of the Will\" (1970), lays out an anti-mechanist argument closely following the one described by Putnam, including reasons for why the human mind can be considered consistent. Lucas admits that, by Gödel's second theorem, a human mind cannot formally prove its own consistency, and even says (perhaps facetiously) that women and politicians are inconsistent. Nevertheless, he sets out arguments for why a male non-politician can be considered consistent. These arguments are philosophical in nature and are the subject of much debate; Lucas provides references to responses on his own website.\n\nAnother work was done by Judson Webb in his 1968 paper \"Metamathematics and the Philosophy of Mind\". Webb claims that previous attempts have glossed over whether one truly can see that the Gödelian statement \"p\" pertaining to oneself, is true. Using a different formulation of Gödel's theorems, namely, that of Raymond Smullyan and Emil Post, Webb shows one can derive convincing arguments for oneself of both the truth and falsity of \"p\". He furthermore argues that all arguments about the philosophical implications of Gödel's theorems are really arguments about whether the Church-Turing thesis is true.\n\nLater, Roger Penrose entered the fray, providing somewhat novel anti-mechanist arguments in his books, \"The Emperor's New Mind\" (1989) [ENM] and \"Shadows of the Mind\" (1994) [SM]. These books have proved highly controversial. Martin Davis responded to ENM in his paper \"Is Mathematical Insight Algorithmic?\" (ps), where he argues that Penrose ignores the issue of consistency. Solomon Feferman gives a critical examination of SM in his paper \"Penrose's Gödelian argument\" (pdf). The response of the scientific community to Penrose's arguments has been negative, with one group of scholars calling Penrose's repeated attempts to form a persuasive Gödelian argument \"a kind of intellectual shell game, in which a precisely defined notion to which a mathematical result applies... is switched for a vaguer notion\".\n\nA Gödel-based anti-mechanism argument can be found in Douglas Hofstadter's book \"\", though Hofstadter is widely viewed as a known skeptic of such arguments:\nLooked at this way, Gödel's proof suggests – though by no means does it prove! – that there could be some high-level way of viewing the mind/brain, involving concepts which do not appear on lower levels, and that this level might have explanatory power that does not exist – not even in principle – on lower levels. It would mean that some facts could be explained on the high level quite easily, but not on lower levels at all. No matter how long and cumbersome a low-level statement were made, it would not explain the phenomena in question.\nIt is analogous to the fact that, if you make derivation after derivation in Peano arithmetic, no matter how long and cumbersome you make them, you will never come up with one for G – despite the fact that on a higher level, you can see that the Gödel sentence is true.\n\nWhat might such high-level concepts be? It has been proposed for eons, by various holistically or \"soulistically\" inclined scientists and humanists that consciousness is a phenomenon that escapes explanation in terms of brain components; so here is a candidate at least. There is also the ever-puzzling notion of free will. So perhaps these qualities could be \"emergent\" in the sense of requiring explanations which cannot be furnished by the physiology alone\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40567577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40567577", "title": "Michael Huemer", "text": "Michael Huemer\n\nMichael Huemer (; born 27 December 1969) is a professor of philosophy at the University of Colorado, Boulder. He has defended ethical intuitionism, direct realism, libertarianism, veganism, and philosophical anarchism.\n\nHuemer's book \"Ethical Intuitionism\" was reviewed in \"Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews\", \"Philosophy and Phenomenological Research\" and \"Mind.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8762939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8762939", "title": "Murray Clarke", "text": "Murray Clarke\n\nMurray Clarke is a Professor of Philosophy at Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec, Canada specializing in Cognitive Science, Philosophy of Mind, and Naturalized Epistemology. He is the author of Reconstructing Reason and Representation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28838658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28838658", "title": "Niall Lucy", "text": "Niall Lucy\n\nNiall Lucy (11 November 1956 - 5 June 2014) was an Australian writer and scholar best known for his work in deconstruction.\n\nNiall Lucy served as a professor in the School of Media, Culture & Creative Arts at Curtin University, and a former Head of the School of Arts (1998–2003) at Murdoch University. In 1997 he was a visiting scholar in the School of English, Communication and Philosophy at the University of Wales, Cardiff. He worked mainly in the fields of deconstruction, literary theory and cultural criticism. His recent work (much of it collaborative) brings a deconstructive approach to contemporary Australian events and figures.\n\nLucy gained a BA and MA (English) from the University of Western Australia, and a PhD (English) from the University of Sydney.\n\nIn \"Postmodern Literary Theory: An Introduction\" (1997), Lucy identifies postmodernism as a continuation (albeit not by conscious or deliberate means) of romanticism, especially in the form of ideas associated with the Jena romantics in Germany in the late-eighteenth and early-nineteenth centuries. His discussion is influenced by the work of French philosophers Philippe Lacoue-Labarthe and Jean-Luc Nancy. Lucy argues that postmodernism should be distinguished from poststructuralism, and especially from deconstruction as associated with the work of Jacques Derrida.\n\nLucy's work is notable for its sense of humour, and for taking popular culture no less seriously than philosophy. The increasing tendency in his later work towards a philosophical engagement with contemporary events is strongly informed by Derrida's \"Specters of Marx\" and the idea of democracy-to-come, which is the linchpin of Lucy's account of the importance of deconstruction in \"A Derrida Dictionary\" (2004).\n\nMuch of Lucy’s recent work has been collaborative, and directly concerned with contemporary Australian cultural events and figures. His book with Steve Mickler, \"The War on Democracy: Conservative Opinion in the Australian Press\" (2006), pits a Derridean concept of democracy against what the authors argue are the undemocratic interests represented in the work of several prominent Australian media commentators (whom they refer to collectively as “Team Australia”), including Miranda Devine, Gerard Henderson, Janet Albrechtsen and Andrew Bolt. The book was shortlisted for the Gleebooks Prize in Literary and Cultural Criticism at the 2008 New South Wales Premier's Literary Awards.\n\nAmong other recent works, Lucy's co-edited collection (with Chris Coughran), \"Vagabond Holes\" (2009), is a tribute to his late friend, David McComb, lead singer and songwriter for Australian rock band The Triffids, which defies the conventions of a rock biography in its deconstruction of the notion of an autonomous self or identity. Contributors include Nick Cave, Mick Harvey, John Kinsella, DBC Pierre, and Lucy's sister, Judith Lucy.\n\nHis book, \"Pomo Oz: Fear and Loathing Downunder\" (2010), engages with (among other issues) debates surrounding secondary-school English teaching in Australia, while taking a deconstructive slant on the Bill Henson scandal, the Children Overboard Affair and The Chaser's prank motorcade at the 2007 APEC Australia summit in Sydney. A significant section of the book is devoted to a discussion of John Kinsella’s poetry in relation to deconstruction, with reference to Kinsella’s friendship with Derrida. Ranging across diverse topics, and working in multiple styles, the book offers a further elaboration of Lucy’s work on democracy-to-come.\n\nNiall's final book, \"A Dictionary of Postmodernism\" will be published posthumously by Wiley-Blackwell in 2015. The book, edited by John Hartley (academic), was completed by Niall's friends and colleagues Robert Briggs, Claire Colebrook, John Hartley, Tony Thwaites, Darren Tofts and McKenzie Wark.\n\nLucy has been lauded internationally for his work in deconstruction. His \"Debating Derrida\" is described by Peggy Kamuf as \"an excellent guide\" and by Juliana De Nooy as “lucid and pedagogical”. Writing for \"The Times Literary Supplement\", Anthony Elliot says of \"A Derrida Dictionary\" that it \"ranges with considerable flair from Hegel to Geri Halliwell, fascism to Francis Fukuyama, the philosophy of consciousness to celebrity\". \"It [\"A Derrida Dictionary\"] is the kind of book whose wit makes one want to read excerpts to colleagues, and it is precisely this lightness of tone that makes Lucy's book so pedagogically useful\", a reviewer writes in \"Choice\". Claire Colebrook commends \"Postmodern Literary Theory: An Introduction\" as “a critical account of the difference between postmodernism and poststructuralism”.\n\nLucy’s work is widely cited across many disciplines and in several languages. Among those who refer to his work are John D. Caputo John Hartley, Peggy Kamuf, Keith Jenkins, and McKenzie Wark.\n\nThe critical reception in Australia to his book with Steve Mickler, \"The War on Democracy\", has been divided. Kitty van Vuuren, writing in \"Media International Australia\", says she was “unable to put the book down” and found it to be “lively, sardonic and entertaining”. In '\"Overland\", Georgina Murray claims the book was \"crying out to be written\". By contrast, one of the figures whose work is critiqued in \"The War on Democracy\", education journalist Luke Slattery, describes the book as \"blood sport\" and decries Lucy as \"a parish priest in the much-diminished postmodern church\". Another figure of critique in the book, columnist Christopher Pearson, condemns what he calls the book's \"unusually vicious polemic\".\n\nLucy wrote liner notes for the re-issue of The Triffids album \"Calenture\" (2007) and for the retrospective collection, \"Crossing Off the Miles\", by Australian rock band Chad's Tree.\n\nLucy wrote freelance music journalism in the 1980s for \"On the Street\" (Sydney), \"5 O'Clock News\" (Perth) and other publications. He was a regular music broadcaster on 6UVS-FM (now RTR-FM) in Perth and 2SER-FM in Sydney. He occasionally wrote for \"The West Australian\" and \"On Line Opinion\", and hosted the weekly music show \"The Comfort Zone\" on 720 ABC Perth.\n\nLucy was interviewed for the forthcoming documentary about David McComb and The Triffids, \"Love in Bright Landscapes\", directed by Jonathan Alley.\n\nLucy served as a member of the consultancy board of \"Derrida Today\" and a member of the editorial board of \"Fibreculture Journal\".\n\nHe was a member of the Curriculum Council of Western Australia’s Literature Reference Panel.\n\nHe was the founding co-director of The Centre for Culture and Technology (CCAT) at Curtin University.\n\nLucy lived in Fremantle, Western Australia, with his children Dylan, Hannah and Jakeb. He was married to Samantha Lucy-Stevenson. He was the brother of professional comedian Judith Lucy.\n\nLucy was a committed member and supporter of the Fremantle Football Club.\n\nNiall Lucy died at his home in Fremantle in June 2014, 11 months after being diagnosed with cancer.\n\nThere have been many tributes in response to Lucy's death throughout the international scholarly community. Poet John Kinsella wrote the official obituary, 'Vale Free-Flowing Niall', published in The West Australian. The international journal \"Derrida Today\" dedicated its 2014 issue 'In memoriam' to Niall Lucy, who had previously been on their editorial board. The international, peer-reviewed journal that Lucy founded and co-edited, \"Ctrl-Z: New Media Philosophy\", included the tribute piece 'Who will have come to have read this? - In memory of Niall Lucy (1956-2014)', written by his co-editor Dr. Robert Briggs. Briggs' piece appears in the last issue of the journal Lucy edited. Prior to Lucy's death, he had contributed a chapter on 'Politics' to a forthcoming book on Jacques Derrida edited by Claire Colebrook, \"Jacques Derrida: Key Concepts\" (Routledge, 2015); Colebrook dedicated the completed book to his memory. The 2015 edition of \"Vlak Magazine\", edited by Prague-scholar Louis Armand, also includes contributions in Lucy's memory by Armand, Kinsella and Swinburne academic Darren Tofts.\n\nLucy was presented with a posthumous Certificate of Recognition by the School Curriculum and Standards Authority for his contributions across 20 years to the English and Literature course and examination materials in Western Australia.\n\nIn December 2014, a concert celebrating Lucy’s life was also held with guest Australian musicians, including Martyn P. Casey (Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds, Grinderman); Jill Birt, Alsy MacDonald and Rob McComb (The Triffids); James Baker (The Scientists, Beasts of Bourbon, Le Hoodoo Gurus); and Richard Lane (The Stems); amongst many others.\n\nNiall's sister Judith Lucy dedicated her critically acclaimed television show, \"Judith Lucy Is All Woman\", to her brother's memory. Her 2015 Helpmann Award winning comedy show, \"Ask No Questions of the Moth,\" also discusses how she dealt with the impact of her brother's death.\n\nThe Chad's Tree song 'The Flood Johanna', which appears on The Blackeyed Susans's Robert Snarski's 2015 solo album, \"Low Fidelity: Songs by Request Volume 1\", is dedicated to Niall Lucy; Niall's wife, Sam; and his sister, Judith. \n\nThe 2017 novel ‘’Sanctuary’’, by Australian writer and actor Judy Nunn, is also dedicated to his memory. \n\nAt the time of his death, Lucy was Professor of Critical Theory at Curtin University. In 2015, Curtin University announced The Niall Lucy Award, commemorating the anniversary of Niall's death. The inaugural winner of the $5,000 award was Dr. Matthew Chrulew, from The Centre of Culture and Technology (CCAT). Chrulew won the award for his work on philosophical ethology, posthumanism, and \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "616035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=616035", "title": "North American monetary union", "text": "North American monetary union\n\nThe North American monetary union is a theoretical economic and monetary union of three North American countries: Canada, the United States of America and Mexico.\n\nImplementation would involve the three countries giving up their current currency units (the U.S. dollar, the Canadian dollar, and the Mexican peso) and adopting a new one, created specifically for this purpose (some versions of the theory assume only the United States and Canada would be included). The hypothetical currency for the union is most often referred to as the amero. The concept is modeled on the common European Union currency (the euro).\n\nOne argument is that it would save up to $3 billion in currency transactions. The same authors also stated that Canada's GDP could rise by up to 33% in a 20-year period given the adoption of a single currency.\n\nThe idea of a common currency has historically been unpopular in English-speaking Canada, in comparison to the French-speaking province of Quebec where it has received more support. A 2001 opinion poll found that in Quebec over 50% of respondents favored the idea of a shared currency, while in the rest of Canada a majority of respondents opposed the idea.\n\nLower levels of currency cooperation have been practiced in the Americas before. Some nations such as Argentina and Brazil have at times tied their currency to the U.S. dollar. Some of them, such as Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, and the Organisation of the Eastern Caribbean, still do.\n\nThe U.S. dollar is officially accepted alongside local currencies in El Salvador (since 2001), Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Peru, Honduras, Panama, Bermuda and Barbados, although in practice two of these countries (El Salvador and Panama) are fully dollarized. In 2000, Ecuador officially adopted the U.S. dollar as its sole currency. In a few areas of Canada, the U.S. dollar can be accepted as currency alongside the Canadian Dollar, particularly in areas near border crossings. An example of this effect is Niagara Falls, Ontario, with large numbers of U.S. tourists (businesses still may not accept U.S. currency depending on their policy). The same is also true for the Canadian Dollar in many U.S. cities bordering Canada.\n\nOpposition to a North American monetary union exists high up in the governments on both sides of the Canada–United States border. Herbert Grubel, the first proponent of the amero, admits that American officials show no interest in the topic. He concedes that \"there wouldn't be very much benefit for the United States\" in an amero. Likewise, the Canadian Department of Finance strongly opposes the creation of a common currency with the United States, citing the loss of economic sovereignty. In briefing documents to former Minister of Finance Jim Flaherty, finance officials concluded: A North American common currency would undoubtedly mean for Canada the adoption of the U.S. dollar and U.S. monetary policy. Canada would have to give up its control of domestic inflation and interest rates.\n\nFrom the point of view of the Canadian and Mexican governments, a major obstacle to the creation of a unified currency is the sheer dominance of the United States in any such union.\n\nA paper from University of California, Santa Barbara puts forward the idea that the United States simply has too many advantages from the \"status quo\" to move toward a single currency. The United States dollar already acts as a global currency, meaning any transition to a 'new' currency would risk compromising this position and could cause a shift toward the euro or yen. The U.S. dollar is currently being used in over half of all the world's exports, double the total United States foreign trade. The adoption of the amero could threaten the seigniorage that the U.S. currently gains from its dollar. While seignorage would still be gained from the amero, this would be shared among the Bank of Canada, the Federal Reserve, and the Banco de México. Therefore, even if the amero were used just as much as the U.S. dollar, the advantages would be shared among two or more countries, and not exclusively held by the United States.\n\nSeveral problems could arise in regards to macroeconomic management. By submitting to a common currency, the countries would lose considerable autonomy in the management of the currency itself, including the setting of interest rates. Amongst the three potential participants, there is considerable difference in policy which would have to be reconciled.\n\nDebt is a factor affecting currency prices. As of 2010, the debt of the United States continues to increase, while the debt of the Canadian federal government is being reduced. This is a clear advantage for Canadians and it would not be reflected if the currencies were to merge. The importance of commodities also factors into this equation.\n\nA concern with any unified North American currency is the differing economic situations between each country. The Eurozone is broadly similar being service-based economies based on high public spending (compared to the United States), high taxes and wealth being created by the sale of goods and services. North America on the other hand has three distinct economies; one based mainly on agriculture, industry and manufacturing with a demand for free trade (Mexico), another based on services such as retail, with higher taxes and low public spending (United States), and a third based on services with higher taxes and higher public spending, with a large sector in primary goods such as oil, mining and lumber (Canada).\n\nSome observers blamed the Eurozone crisis partly on a lack of effective fiscal union. The Budget of the European Union is relatively small compared to the budgets of the Eurozone countries, which are set independently. Leading up to the crisis, some countries incurred more debt than the unenforced EU guidelines called for. Due to the centralized monetary union, countries experiencing problems were unable to apply local monetary policy to recover, and destabilized the currency which is also used by more economically healthy countries. The national budgets and debt levels of Canada, the United States, and Mexico, on the other hand, are also set completely independently, which could cause similar problems in a situation where monetary policy was centralized.\n\nIn contrast, the economies of the various states of the United States are strongly integrated. Internally, the U.S. also has strong fiscal federalism - all but one of the fifty states have a balanced budget amendment, and the federal budget is large compared to state budgets, resulting in effective federal stabilization of the currency and national economy.\n\nIn November 2006, former CNN commentator Lou Dobbs reported that a \"North American Union\" was being implemented, without the knowledge and consent of the people who would be affected by the Union. The episode also briefly mentioned various claims about a common currency. The report focused on uncertainty prior to Felipe Calderón taking office as President of Mexico in late 2006, but never provided any substantive evidence to support this claim. The report suggested the union would be implemented by 2010, a deadline which came and went without such a union being implemented.\n\nIn 2006, Conservative Caucus Chairman Howard Phillips, WND columnist and author Jerome Corsi, activist Phyllis Schlafly, among others, reportedly formed a coalition against a North American Union. On January 22, 2007, Republican Representatives Virgil Goode of Virginia, Tom Tancredo of Colorado, Walter Jones of North Carolina, and Ron Paul of Texas were among the 43 federal lawmakers who introduced H. CON. RES. 40, a resolution advocated by the coalition, that expressed: The sense of Congress that the United States should not engage in the construction of a North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) Superhighway System or enter into a North American Union (NAU) with Mexico or Canada.\n\nIn August 2007, rumors and conspiracy theories began circulating across the Internet regarding alleged United States Treasury-issued amero coins.\n\nThe inspiration behind these rumors may have been the posting of images of medallions created by coin designer Daniel Carr. Carr, who designed the New York and Rhode Island 2001 statehood quarters, sells medals and tokens of his own design on his commercial website, \"Designs Computed\" (also known as \"DC Coin\"). Among his designs are a series of gold, silver and copper fantasy issues of amero coins ranging in denomination from one to one thousand. The medallions have the legend \"Union of North America\" on the back with his company's logo, a stylized \"DC\", in small type. Concerning his amero designs, he mentions on his website:\nMy goal with these coins is not to endorse a Union of North America or a common Amero currency. I fully support the United States Constitution, and I would not welcome (in any form) a diminishment of its provisions. I expect that these coins will help make more people aware of the issue and the possible ramifications. I leave it up to others to decide if they are in favor of, or against a North American Union. And I encourage citizens to voice their approval or disapproval of government plans that impact them.\n\nUnauthorized postings of images taken from his website have been reposted widely across the Internet, often being used as supposed \"proof\" of the amero coinage. Notably, white nationalist and former Internet radio talk show host Hal Turner ran a full article on his website about the \"amero coin\", claiming to have arranged for a United States Government minted \"amero\" to be smuggled out of the United States Department of the Treasury by an employee of that organization.\n\nFollowing Turner's assertions of federal minting of ameros, a web site marketing the curio coins released a statement debunking Turner's claims of a government cover up regarding Daniel Carr's amero products. The urban legend investigating Web site \"Snopes\" also ran a further counter to Turner's claims, stating \"neither the U.S. Mint nor the U.S. Treasury has a hand in creating these 'Ameros'. These coins are merely collectibles offered to the buying public by a private company in the business of manufacturing such curiosities.\"\n\nHal Turner claimed that Carr's website had been created in haste in a matter of days expressly to discredit his claim about the coinage.\n\nHowever, Carr's designs have been available through his website since 2005, and according to a WHOIS search at Network Solutions, the domain \"dc-coin.com\" was registered by Daniel Carr on September 27, 2005.\n\nIn October 2008, Hal Turner released a video showing an apparent 20 amero coin, with claims that shipments of the currency had been sent to China. Yet the coin in Hal Turner's video is identical to a medallion on Daniel Carr's \"dc-coin\" website, listed as \"UNA 2007 20 Ameros, Copper, Satin Finish\".\n\nIn April 2018, the new digital currency or cryptocurrency Amero was announced by the North America Procurement Council (NAPC).. It was inspired by the original concept of the Amero but follows a very different approach. It is designed, as its creators note, as a medium of exchange in commerce between government and business and business-to-business. It has already published a preliminary directory of vendors which have agreed to accept the Amero as payment for goods and services. Further information about the 'new' Amero is available on its own website.\n\nOn December 3, 2008, Hal Turner's blog featured what he claimed were genuine \"amero bills\". He displayed photographs of purported 20, 50, and 100 amero notes. Turner did not identify how he obtained the images, saying only that \"once again, my sources have come through\". He claimed that the \"new currency is already being printed and quietly distributed around the world\". The web site Snopes.com suggested Turner was \"beating the same tired, apocryphal drum\" with his new claim. These images are art from the Flickr user aleatorysort, who created them as an artistic political commentary, and were therefore not actual currency.\n\n"}
{"id": "214866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=214866", "title": "Novalis", "text": "Novalis\n\nNovalis (; ) was the pseudonym and pen name of Georg Philipp Friedrich Freiherr von Hardenberg (2 May 1772 – 25 March 1801), a poet, author, mystic, and philosopher of Early German Romanticism. Hardenberg's professional work and university background, namely his study of mineralogy and management of salt mines in Saxony, was often ignored by his contemporary readers. The first studies showing important relations between his literary and professional works started in the 1960s.\n\nGeorg Philipp Friedrich von Hardenberg was born in 1772 at Oberwiederstedt manor (now part of Arnstein, Saxony-Anhalt), in the Harz mountains. In the church in Wiederstedt, he was christened Georg Philipp Friedrich. An oil painting and a christening cap commonly assigned to him are Hardenberg's only possessions now extant.\n\nThe family seat was a manorial estate. Hardenberg descended from ancient, Lower German nobility with its ancestral seat at Nörten-Hardenberg since 1287 to this day. Different lines of the family include such important, influential magistrates and ministry officials as the Prussian chancellor Karl August von Hardenberg (1750–1822). He spent his childhood on the family estate and used it as the starting point for his travels into the Harz mountains.\n\nHis father, the estate owner and salt-mine manager Heinrich Ulrich Erasmus Freiherr (Baron) von Hardenberg (1738–1814), was a strictly pietistic man, member of the Moravian (Herrnhuter) Church. His second marriage was to Auguste Bernhardine von Böltzig (1749–1818), who gave birth to eleven children: their second child was Georg Philipp Friedrich. The Hardenbergs were a noble family but not rich. Young Georg Philipp was often short of cash, rode a small horse, and sometimes had to simply walk.\n\nAt first, young Hardenberg was taught by private tutors. He attended the Lutheran grammar school in Eisleben, where he acquired skills in rhetoric and ancient literature, common parts of the education of his time. From his twelfth year, he was in the charge of his uncle Friedrich Wilhelm Freiherr von Hardenberg at his stately home in Lucklum.\n\nYoung Hardenberg studied law from 1790 to 1794 at Jena, Leipzig and Wittenberg. He passed his exams with distinction. During his studies, he attended Schiller's lectures on history and befriended him during his illness. He also met Goethe, Herder and Jean Paul, and befriended Ludwig Tieck, Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling, and the brothers Friedrich and August Wilhelm Schlegel.\n\nIn October 1794, he started working as actuary for August Coelestin Just, who became not only his friend but, later, also his biographer. The following January, he was appointed auditor to the salt works at Weißenfels.\n\nDuring the time he worked for August Coelestin Just, Novalis met the 12-year-old Sophie von Kühn (1782–1797), a girl who was, according to accounts, a \"perfectly commonplace young girl, neither intelligent nor particularly beautiful.\" Nonetheless, he fell in love with Sophie, since in the young Georg Philipp's view of the world \"nothing is commonplace\" because \"all, when rightly seen, is symbolic.\" On 15 March 1795, when Sophie was 13 years old, the two became engaged, despite her family's reluctance and the fact that she was already tubercular.\n\nThe early death of Sophie in March 1797, from tuberculosis, affected Novalis deeply and permanently. She was only 15 years old, and the two had not married.\n\nIn 1795–1796, Novalis entered the Mining Academy of Freiberg in Saxony, a leading academy of science, to study geology under Professor Abraham Gottlob Werner (1750–1817), who befriended him. During Novalis' studies in Freiberg, he immersed himself in a wide range of studies, including mining, mathematics, chemistry, biology, history and, not least, philosophy. It was here that he collected materials for his encyclopaedia project, \"Das allgemeine Brouillon\". Similar to other German authors of the Romantic age, his work in the mining industry, which was undergoing then the first steps to industrialization, was closely connected with his literary work.\n\nIn the period 1795–1796, Novalis concerned himself with the scientific doctrine of Johann Gottlieb Fichte, which greatly influenced his worldview. He not only read Fichte's philosophies but also developed his concepts further, transforming Fichte's \"Nicht-Ich\" (German \"not I\") to a \"Du\" (\"you\"), an equal subject to the \"Ich\" (\"I\"). This was the starting point for Novalis' \"Liebesreligion\" (\"religion of love\").\n\nNovalis' first fragments were published in 1798 in the \"Athenäum\", a magazine edited by the Schlegel brothers, who were also part of the early Romantic movement. Novalis' first publication was entitled \"Blüthenstaub\" (\"Pollen\") and saw the first appearance of his pseudonym, \"Novalis\". In July 1799, he became acquainted with Ludwig Tieck, and that autumn he met other authors of so-called \"Jena Romanticism\".\n\nNovalis became engaged for the second time in December 1798. His fiancée was Julie von Charpentier (1776–1811), a daughter of Johann Friedrich Wilhelm Toussaint von Charpentier, a professor in Freiberg.\n\nFrom Pentecost 1799, Novalis again worked in the management of salt mines. That December, he became an assessor of the salt mines and a director. On the 6 December 1800, the twenty-eight-year-old Hardenberg was appointed \"Supernumerar-Amtshauptmann\" for the district of Thuringia, a position comparable to a present-day magistrate.\n\nFrom August 1800 onward, Hardenberg was suffering from tuberculosis. On 25 March 1801, he died in Weißenfels. His body was buried in the old cemetery there.\n\nNovalis lived long enough to see the publication only of \"Pollen\", \"Faith and Love or the King and the Queen\" and \"Hymns to the Night\". His unfinished novels \"Heinrich von Ofterdingen\" and \"The Novices at Sais\", his political speech \"Christendom or Europa\", and numerous other notes and fragments were published posthumously by his friends Ludwig Tieck and Friedrich Schlegel.\n\nYoung Hardenberg adopted the pen name Novalis from his 12th-century ancestors who named themselves \"de Novali\", after their settlement Grossenrode, or \"magna Novalis\".\n\nNovalis, who was deeply read in science, law, philosophy, politics and political economy, started writing quite early. He left an abundance of notes on these fields and his early work displays his ease and familiarity with them. His later works are closely connected to his studies and his profession. Novalis collected everything that he had learned, reflected upon it and drew connections in the sense of an encyclopaedic overview on art, religion and science. These notes from the years 1798 and 1799 are called \"Das allgemeine Brouillon (\"literally \"general rough draft\"), now available in English under the title \"Notes for a Romantic Encyclopaedia\".\nTogether with Friedrich Schlegel, Novalis developed the fragment as a literary artform. The core of Hardenberg's literary works is the quest for the connection of science and poetry, and the result was supposed to be a \"progressive universal poesy”. Novalis was convinced that philosophy and the higher-ranking poetry have to be continually related to each other.\n\nThe fact that the romantic fragment is an appropriate form for a depiction of \"progressive universal poesy”, can be seen especially from the success of this new genre in its later reception.\n\nNovalis' whole works are based upon an idea of education: \"We are on a mission: we are called upon to educate the earth.\" It has to be made clear that everything is in a continual process. It is the same with humanity, which forever strives towards and tries to recreate a new Golden Age – a paradisaic Age of harmony between man and nature that was assumed to have existed in earlier times. This Age was described by Plato, Plotinus and Franz Hemsterhuis, the last of whom was an extremely important figure for the German Romantics.\n\nThis idea of a romantic universal poesy can be seen clearly in the romantic triad. This theoretical structure always shows its recipient that the described moment is exactly the moment (\"kairos\") in which the future is decided. These frequently mentioned critical points correspond with the artist's feeling for the present, which Novalis shares with many other contemporaries of his time. Thus a triadic structure can be found in most of his works. This means that there are three corresponding structural elements which are written differently concerning the content and the form.\n\nHardenberg's intensive study of the works of Jakob Böhme, from 1800, had a clear influence on his own writing.\n\nA mystical worldview, a high standard of education, and the frequently perceptible pietistic influences are combined in Novalis' attempt to reach a new concept of Christianity, faith and God. He forever endeavours to align these with his own view of transcendental philosophy, which acquired the mysterious name \"magical idealism\", drawing heavily from the critical or transcendental idealism of Immanuel Kant and J. G. Fichte (the earliest form of German idealism), and incorporates the artistic element central to Early German Romanticism. The subject must strive to conform the external, natural world to its own will and genius; hence the term \"magical\". At the same time, Novalis' emphasis on the term \"magic\" represents a challenge to what he perceived as the disenchantment that came with modern rationalistic thinking and therefore functions as a \"solution\" of sorts to the lamentation in \"Hymnen an die Nacht\". David Krell calls magical idealism \"thaumaturgic idealism.\" This view can even be discerned in more religious works such as the \"Spiritual Songs\" (published 1802), which soon became incorporated into Lutheran hymn-books.\n\nNovalis influenced, among others, the novelist and theologian George MacDonald, who translated his 'Hymns to the Night' in 1897. More recently, Novalis, and the Early Romanticism (\"Frühromantik\") movement as a whole, has been recognized as constituting a separate philosophical school, as opposed to simply a literary movement. Recognition of the distinctness of \"Frühromantik\" philosophy is owed largely, in the English speaking world at least, to the writer Frederick Beiser.\n\nThe philosopher and esotericist Rudolf Steiner spoke in various lectures (now published) about Novalis.\n\nIn August 1800, eight months after completion, the revised edition of the \"Hymnen an die Nacht\" was published in the \"Athenaeum\". They are often considered to be the climax of Novalis’ lyrical works and the most important poetry of the German early Romanticism.\n\nThe six hymns contain many elements which can be understood as autobiographical. Even though a lyrical \"I\", rather than Novalis himself, is the speaker, there are many relationships between the hymns and Hardenberg's experiences from 1797 to 1800.\n\nThe topic is the romantic interpretation of life and death, the threshold of which is symbolised by the night. Life and death are – according to Novalis – developed into entwined concepts. So in the end, death is the romantic principle of life.\n\nInfluences from the literature of that time can be seen. The metaphors of the hymns are closely connected to the books Novalis had read at about the time of his writing of the hymns. These are prominently Shakespeare’s \"Romeo and Juliet\" (in the translation by A.W. Schlegel, 1797) and Jean Paul’s \"Unsichtbare Loge\" (1793).\n\nThe \"Hymns to the Night\" display a universal religion with an intermediary. This concept is based on the idea that there is always a third party between a human and God. This intermediary can either be Jesus – as in Christian lore – or the dead beloved as in the hymns. These works consist of three times two hymns. These three components are each structured in this way: the first hymn shows, with the help of the Romantic triad, the development from an assumed happy life on earth through a painful era of alienation to salvation in the eternal night; the following hymn tells of the awakening from this vision and the longing for a return to it. With each pair of hymns, a higher level of experience and knowledge is shown. Some of the poems notably lament the historical replacement of European Paganism by Christianity, creating ambiguity about the exact view of the \"Hymns\" on Christianity and polytheism.\n\nThe novel fragments \"Heinrich von Ofterdingen\" and \"Die Lehrlinge zu Sais (The Novices of Sais)\" reflect the idea of describing a universal world harmony with the help of poetry. The novel 'Heinrich von Ofterdingen' contains the \"blue flower\", a symbol that became an emblem for the whole of German Romanticism. Originally the novel was supposed to be an answer to Goethe’s \"Wilhelm Meister\", a work that Novalis had read with enthusiasm but later on judged as being highly unpoetical. He disliked the victory of the economical over the poetic.\n\nThe speech called \"Die Christenheit oder Europa\" was written in 1799, but was first published in 1826. It is a poetical, cultural-historical speech with a focus on a political utopia with regard to the Middle Ages. In this text Novalis tries to develop a new Europe which is based on a new poetical Christendom which shall lead to unity and freedom. He got the inspiration for this text from Schleiermacher’s \"Über die Religion\" (1799). The work was also a response to the French Enlightenment and Revolution, both of which Novalis saw as catastrophic and irreligious. It anticipated, then, the growing German and Romantic theme of anti-Enlightenment visions of European spirituality and order.\n\nWalter Pater includes Novalis's quote, \"Philosophiren ist dephlegmatisiren, vivificiren\" (\"to philosophize is to throw off apathy, to become revived\") in his conclusion to \"Studies in the History of the Renaissance\". Novalis' poetry and writings were also an influence on Hermann Hesse.\n\n20th-century German philosopher Martin Heidegger uses a Novalis fragment, \"Philosophy is really homesickness, an urge to be at home everywhere\" in the opening pages of \"The Fundamental Concepts of Metaphysics.\" \n\nNovalis was an influence on Rudolf Steiner.\n\nThe libretto of Richard Wagner's opera \"Tristan und Isolde\" contains strong allusions to Novalis' symbolic language, especially the dichotomy between the Night and the Day that animates his \"Hymns to the Night.\"\n\nNovalis was also an influence on George MacDonald, and so indirectly on C. S. Lewis, the Inklings, and the whole modern fantasy genre. Borges refers often to Novalis in his work.\n\nNovelist Penelope Fitzgerald's last work, \"The Blue Flower\", is a historical fiction about Novalis, his education, his philosophical and poetic development, and his romance with Sophie.\n\nThe krautrock band Novalis, beside taking their name from him, adapted or used directly poems by Novalis as lyrics on their albums.\n\nThe American avant-garde filmmaker Stan Brakhage made the film \"First Hymn to the Night – Novalis\" in 1994. The film was issued on Blu-ray and DVD by the Criterion Collection.\n\nIn tribute to his writings, Novalis records are produced by AVC Audio Visual Communications AG, Switzerland.\n\nNovalis' works were originally issued in two volumes by his friends Ludwig Tieck and Friedrich Schlegel (2 vols. 1802; a third volume was added in 1846). Editions of Novalis' collected works have since been compiled by C. Meisner and Bruno Wille (1898), by E. Heilborn (3 vols., 1901), and by J. Minor (3 vols., 1907). \"Heinrich von Ofterdingen\" was published separately by J. Schmidt in 1876.\n\nNovalis's \"Correspondence\" was edited by J. M. Raich in 1880. See R. Haym \"Die romantische Schule\" (Berlin, 1870); A. Schubart, \"Novalis' Leben, Dichten und Denken\" (1887); C. Busse, \"Novalis' Lyrik\" (1898); J. Bing, \"Friedrich von Hardenberg\" (Hamburg, 1899), E. Heilborn, \"Friedrich von Hardenberg\" (Berlin, 1901).\n\nThe German-language, six-volume edition of Novalis works \"Historische-Kritische Ausgabe - Novalis Schriften\" (HKA) is edited by Richard Samuel, Hans-Joachim Mähl & Gerhard Schulz. It is published by Verlag W. Kohlhammer, Stuttgart, 1960–2006.\n\nSeveral of Novalis's notebooks and philosophical works or books about Novalis and his work have been translated into English:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41469600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41469600", "title": "Oleg Khoma", "text": "Oleg Khoma\n\nOleg Khoma (born October 30, 1966) is Ukrainian historian of European philosophy, researcher, translator and commentator on 17th- and 20th-century French philosophy. Researcher of Blaise Pascal, Rene Descartes and Nicolas Malebranche.\n\nBorn in the Vinnytsia, Ukraine, he graduated with honors from the Faculty of Philosophy 1990 at the Kyiv National Taras Shevchenko University and defended his PhD thesis at the same university (1993) under the supervision of Professor Hanna Horak. Since 1990 and until now, he teaches Philosophy at the Vinnytsia National Technical University. He defended his habilitation thesis (1999) at the of the NAS of Ukraine under the supervision of Professor Oleg Bilyi.\n\nIn an effort to improve academic standards, in 2000 he founded Sententiae, the first Ukrainian academic journal specializing in the field of the history of philosophy. O. Khoma remains the editor in chief of this journal to this day. Since 2008, he arranged several prominent international experts to join to the editorial board and organized mandatory double-blind peer-review process for all articles. In 2015, Sententiae became the first Ukrainian philosophical journal indexed by SCOPUS.\nAlso O. Khoma is the member of the Editorial Boards of scientific journals \"Filosofska dumka\" (Philosophical thought) and \"Visnyk of Vinnitsya Technical Institute\".\n\nIn 2003 he received the title of Professor; since 2004 he is chairing the Department of Philosophy and Humanities at Vinnytsia National Technical University. Since 2000 he teaches as a visiting professor at other leading Ukrainian universities, including National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy (2000-2005) and Kyiv National Taras Shevchenko University (since 2006-nowadays). He is the founder and chairman of Pascal Society, affiliated with Ukrainian Philosophical Fund, and director of Renatus (Centre for Studies in History of Philosophy).\n\nOleg Khoma is also an active participant of the Ukrainian branch of the international project “European Dictionary of Philosophies: A Vocabulary of Untranslatabilities”) and editor-in-chief of its section “Epistemology” (web page of Publishers see at).\n\nScholasticism, European Philosophy of the 17th and 20th centuries, contemporary French Philosophy, Philosophical Untranslatabilities, Ukrainian Philosophical Terminology.\n\n2001 was awarded the Programme for Support for publishing \"Skovoroda\", carried out by the French Embassy and the French Institute in Ukraine (for the translation and publication of Jean-Jacques Rousseau treatise \"The Social Contract, or Principles of Political Right\").\n\n2011 received a special award of the Ukrainian Philosophical Foundation for Promotion of philosophical commentary.\n\n2015 was again awarded the \"Skovoroda Prize\" (for the edition «Descartes’ “Meditations“ in mirror of modern interpretations»).\n\n1998, 2004, 2009 received a grant of the for make translations and studies in France.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57818150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57818150", "title": "Omid Payrow Shabani", "text": "Omid Payrow Shabani\n\nOmid A. Payrow Shabani is an Iranian philosopher and Professor of Philosophy at the University of Guelph.\nPayrow Shabani is known for his expertise on constitutional patriotism, Iranian politics and Jürgen Habermas's philosophy. \nHe was awarded an Andrew Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowship in 2002.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6410371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6410371", "title": "Pamela Sue Anderson", "text": "Pamela Sue Anderson\n\nPamela Sue Anderson (April 16, 1955 – 2 March 2017) was an American philosopher who specialized in philosophy of religion, feminist philosophy and continental philosophy. \n\nIn 2007 she was an Official Fellow, Tutor in Philosophy and Christian Ethics, Dean, and Women's Advisor of Regent's Park College in the University of Oxford. Her former students include feminist philosopher Hanneke Canters.\n\nBorn in Hennepin County, Minnesota, Anderson was educated at Yale University and Mansfield College, Oxford and was formerly Reader in Philosophy at the University of Sunderland. Pamela taught at University of Oxford, where she was working on \"In Dialogue with Michèle Le Doeuff\", translated works of Le Doeuff.\n\nIn 2009, she received an honorary degree from the University of Lund in Sweden.\n\nShe died on 12 March 2017. aged 61, after a two-year battle with cancer. \n\nOn 17 March 2018 Regent's Park College unveiled a portrait commissioned of Anderson, in recognition of both her academic contributions and her pastoral commitment to the college.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5341017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5341017", "title": "Paul Churchland", "text": "Paul Churchland\n\nPaul Montgomery Churchland (born October 21, 1942) is a Canadian philosopher known for his studies in neurophilosophy and the philosophy of mind. After earning a Ph.D. from the University of Pittsburgh under Wilfrid Sellars (1969), Churchland rose to the rank of full professor at the University of Manitoba before accepting the Valtz Family Endowed Chair in Philosophy at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD) and a joint appointments in that institution's Institute for Neural Computation and on its Cognitive Science Faculty.\n\nAs of February 2017, Churchland is recognised as Professor Emeritus at the UCSD, and is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Moscow Center for Consciousness Studies of Moscow State University. Churchland is the husband of philosopher Patricia Churchland, with whom he collaborates, and \"The New Yorker\" has reported the similarity of their views, e.g., on the mind-body problem, are such that the two are often discussed as if they are one person.\n\nPaul Montgomery Churchland was born in Vancouver, B.C., Canada, on October 21, 1942. He graduated from the University of British Columbia with a Bachelor of Arts.\n\nHe earned his Ph.D. from the University of Pittsburgh in 1969, his dissertation entitled \"Persons and P-Predicates\" written with Wilfrid Sellars as his advisor.\n\nChurchland lectured at the University of Toronto from 1967–69, and began his independent professional career as an instructor at the University of Pittsburgh in 1969. In 1969, Churchland took a position at the University of Manitoba, where he would teach for fifteen years: as an assistant professor (1969–74) and associate professor (1974–79), and then, from 1979-1984, as a full professor. He spent a part of 1983-1984 at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, and joined the faculty at the University of California, San Diego in 1984. There, he served as Department Chair from 1986-1990.\n\nAs of this February 2017, Churchland is recognised as Professor Emeritus at the University of California, San Diego, where he earlier held the Valtz Family Endowed Chair in Philosophy (through 2011), and continues to appear as a philosophy faculty member on the UCSD Interdisciplinary Ph.D. Program in Cognitive Science and with the affiliated faculty of the UCSD Institute for Neural Computation. As of February 2017, he is also a member of the Board of Trustees of the Center for Consciousness Studies of the Philosophy Department, Moscow State University.\n\nChurchland's work is in the school of analytic philosophy in western philosophy, with interests in epistemology and the philosophy of science, and specific principal interests in the philosophy of mind and in neurophilosophy and artificial intelligence. His work has been described as being influenced by the work of W. V. O. Quine, Thomas Kuhn, Russell Hanson, Wilfred Sellars, and Paul Feyerabend as well as by Karl Popper.\n\nAlong with his wife, Churchland is a major proponent of eliminative materialism, the belief that \nwhere by folk psychology is meant everyday mental concepts such as beliefs, feelings, and desires, which are viewed as theoretical constructs without coherent definition, and thus destined to be obviated by a scientific understanding of human nature. From the perspective of Zawidzki, Churchland's concept of eliminativism is suggested as early as his book \"Scientific Realism and the Plasticity of Mind\" (1979), with its most explicit formulation appearing in a \"Journal of Philosophy\" essay, \"Eliminative Materialism and the Propositional Attitudes\" (1981, see #Written works section below).\n\nChurchland holds that beliefs are not ontologically real; that is, he maintains that a future, fully matured neuroscience is likely to have no need for \"beliefs\" (see propositional attitudes), in the same manner that modern science discarded such notions as legends or witchcraft. According to Churchland, such concepts will not merely be \"reduced\" to more finely grained explanation and retained as useful proximate levels of description, but will be strictly \"eliminated\" as wholly lacking in correspondence to precise objective phenomena, such as activation patterns across neural networks. He points out that the history of science has seen many posits once considered real entities, such as phlogiston, caloric, the luminiferous ether, and vital forces, thus eliminated.\n\nMoreover, in \"The Engine of Reason, The Seat of the Soul\" Churchland hypothesizes that consciousness might be explained in terms of a recurrent neural network with its hub in the intralaminar nucleus of the thalamus, and feedback connections to all parts of the cortex. He acknowledges that this proposal will likely be found in error with regard to the neurological details, but states his belief that it is on the right track in its use of recurrent neural networks to account for consciousness. This has been described, notably, as a reductionist rather than eliminativist account of consciousness.\n\nChurchland is the husband of philosopher Patricia Churchland, and it has been noted that, \"Their work is so similar that they are sometimes discussed, in journals and books, as one person.\"\n\nThe Churchlands are the parents of two children, Mark Churchland and Anne Churchland, both of whom are neuroscientists.\n\nProfessor Churchland has authored several books in philosophy, which have been translated into many languages. Some of the notable of these are:\n\nHis book \"Matter and Consciousness\" has been frequently and extensively reprinted. Both \"Scientific Realism and the Plasticity of Mind\" and \"A Neurocomputational Perspective\" have also been reprinted.\n\nProfessor Churchland has written a number of published articles, some of which have been translated into other languages, including several that have had a substantial impact in philosophy. Essays which have been reprinted include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37534403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37534403", "title": "Philosophy of Natural Science", "text": "Philosophy of Natural Science\n\nPhilosophy of Natural Science is a 1966 book by the philosopher Carl Gustav Hempel. The work is a popular introduction to the philosophy of science.\n\n\"Philosophy of Natural Science\" was extremely influential.\n\n"}
{"id": "30583898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30583898", "title": "President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research", "text": "President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research\n\nThe President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research was a bioethics organization in the United States. \n\nThis Congressionally mandated group was formed in November 1978, by Public Law 95-622, succeeding the National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research. It was created to study bio-ethical issues such as the effects of income and residence on the availability of healthcare, the definition of death, patient consent, human research subjects, and genetic engineering, counseling and testing. The commission met a total of 28 times and ultimately published 11 reports, two of which were made up of three volumes, on these topics and their implications. These reports expanded upon ideas originally established in the 1945 Nuremberg Codes and the Belmont Report. Additionally, a guidebook for Institutional Review Boards was published by the commission in 1981. \n\nJimmy Carter appointed the eleven original members of the commission in July of 1979 and the Senate confirmed Morris B. Abram as the chairman of the commission on September 29, 1979. The commissioners were sworn in by Judge David L. Bazelon at the White House on January 1, 1980 and proceeded to hold the first meeting that day. Six additional commissioners were sworn in as replacements were needed. The commission worked independently from January 1980 to March 31, 1983 when its authority expired. The meeting files, correspondences, and unpublished papers from the commission are currently held in the Bioethics Research Library Kennedy Institute of Ethics at Georgetown University. Multiple government formed organizations continued to fulfill the commission's purposes after its expiration, most specifically the Bioethical Medical Advisory Committee which was created in 1988.\n\nIts publications included:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32828827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32828827", "title": "Rosarius Mary Hagius", "text": "Rosarius Mary Hagius\n\nRosarius Mary Hagius (1673–1757) was a minor Maltese mediaeval philosopher who specialised mainly in metaphysics.\n\nLittle is known as yet about the private life of Hagius. This is unfortunate because, from his extant works, it can clearly be seen that he possessed a superior mind, and quite dexterous in both philosophy and theology. Hagius was a Dominican friar, and a Master of Theology. He taught philosophy and theology for three decades at most of Malta’s institutions of higher education, especially at the Dominican \"Collegium\" of Portus Salutis at Valletta, Malta. His method and style, both of teaching and of writing, were decidedly in the line of Aristotelic-Thomist Scholasticism. He died on March 14, 1757, and was buried in the church of Portus Salutis.\n\nAll of Hagius’ works are in Latin, and held at the National Library of Malta at Valletta, Malta. Unfortunately, no manuscript of Hagius has ever been transliterated, much less translated into any modern language, or even freshly read and studied. Though all of his works basically deal with theological subjects, Hagius consistently examines them from a philosophical point of view, seeking to give sound philosophical basis to his arguments.\n\nTwo manuscripts which had formerly been attributed to Hagius are certainly not his. These are \"Tractatus De Sacramento Eucharistiæ\" (\"A Study on the Sacrament of Eucharist\"; 1710), and \"Tractatus De Adorando SSme Trinitatis Misterio\" (\"A Study on the Worship given to the Most Holy Mystery of the Trinity\"; 1711).\n\nHagius’ extant authentic works are the following\n\n\nPhilosophy in Malta\n"}
{"id": "7475092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7475092", "title": "Sonoma Mountain Zen Center", "text": "Sonoma Mountain Zen Center\n\nSonoma Mountain Zen Center (or, Genjoji) is a Soto Zen practice center located on in the mountainous region of Sonoma County in California—near Santa Rosa—carrying on the tradition and lineage of Shunryu Suzuki. Founded by Jakusho Kwong and his wife Laura Kwong in 1973, Kwong-roshi is the current guiding teacher of the Zen center. Offering residential training, Sonoma Mountain Zen Center also offers a practice regimen for members of the surrounding area and elsewhere who are not residents.\n\nSonoma Mountain Zen Center was established by Jakusho Kwong and his wife Laura Kwong in 1973. According to the book \"Opening the Mountain\", \"Bill and Laura Kwong had moved to Mill Valley and began a little 'put away zendo.' It took place in a neighborhood hall. Every morning, mats, cushions, and altar were put away so other uses of the room could happen. In 1973 the Kwongs and their four sons moved one county north. Classes Bill taught at Sonoma State University gave birth to Sonoma Mountain Zen Center.\" A self-sustaining institution, the Zen center supports itself through members donations, proceeds from its Zen Dust bookstore, and by offering rooms for rental. Author Sarah Ban Breathnach described the center in her book \"A Man's Journey to Simple Abundance\":\n\n\"\"Near the top of the mountain, the road dips, bends, then snakes through a small grove of redwoods. The dense tree canopy blocks all ambient light, so that when you emerge on the other side of the grove, you feel as though you've passed through a portal into another world. It's a fitting way to approach Sonoma Mountain Zen Center, because people there view reality just a little bit differently from the way most of us do.\"\n\nOn September 16, 2012, a groundbreaking ceremony took place at Sonoma Mountain Zen Center:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56064501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56064501", "title": "Susan Ann Dimock", "text": "Susan Ann Dimock\n\nSusan Ann Dimock is a Canadian philosopher and professor of philosophy at York University. \nShe is known for her expertise on meta-ethics and applied ethics. \nDimock is the editor-in-chief of \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7453251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7453251", "title": "Temporal parts", "text": "Temporal parts\n\nIn contemporary metaphysics, temporal parts are the parts of an object that exist in time. A temporal part would be something like \"the first year of a person's life\", or \"all of a table from between 10:00 a.m. on June 21, 1994 to 11:00 p.m. on July 23, 1996\". The term is used in the debate over the persistence of material objects. Objects typically have parts that exist in space—a human body, for example, has \"spatial parts\" like hands, feet, and legs. Some metaphysicists believe objects have \"temporal parts\" as well.\n\nOriginally it was argued that those who believe in temporal parts believe in perdurantism, that persisting objects are wholes composed entirely of temporal parts. This view was contrasted with endurantism, the claim that objects are wholly present at any one time (thus not having different temporal parts at different times). This claim is still commonplace, but philosophers like Ted Sider believe that even endurantists should accept temporal parts.\n\nNot everyone was happy with the definition by analogy: some philosophers, such as Peter van Inwagen, argued that—even given the definition by analogy—they still had no real idea what a temporal part was meant to be (1981: 133), whilst others have felt that whether temporal parts existed or not is merely a verbal dispute (Eli Hirsch holds this view).\n\nGallois surveys some of the attempts to create a more specific definition (Gallois 1998: 256). The early attempts included identifying temporal parts with ordered pairs of times and objects, but it seems relatively unproblematic that temporal parts exist given the definition and ordered pairs seem unsuitable to play the role that perdurantists demand, such as being parts of persisting wholes—how can a set be a part of a material object? Later perdurantists identified persisting objects with events, and as \"events\" having temporal parts was not problematic (for example, the first and second halves of a football match), it was imagined that persisting \"objects\" could have temporal parts. There was a reluctance from many to \"identify\" objects with events, and this definition has long since fallen out of fashion.\n\nOf the definitions closest to those commonly used in the literature, the earliest was Thomson:\n\n\"x\" is a cross-sectional temporal part of \"y\" = (∃\"T\")[\"y\" and \"x\" exist through \"T\" & no part of \"x\" exists outside \"T\" & (∀\"t\")(\"t\" is in \"T\" ⊃ (∀\"P\")(\"y\" exactly occupies \"P\" at \"t\" ⊃ \"x\" exactly occupies \"P\" at \"t\"))] (Thomson 1983: 207).\nLater, Sider tried to combat the fears of endurantists who could not understand what a temporal part is by defining it in terms of \"part at a time\" or \"parthood at a time\", a relation that the endurantist should accept, unlike parthood \"simpliciter\"—which an endurantist may say makes no sense, given that all parts are had \"at a time\". (However, McDaniel argues that even endurantists should accept that notion [McDaniel (2004) 146-7]). Sider gave the following definition, which is widely used:\n\"x\" is an \"instantaneous temporal part\" of \"y\" at instant \"t\" = (i) \"x\" is a part of \"y\"; (ii) \"x\" exists at, but only, at \"t\"; and (iii) \"x\" overlaps every part of \"y\" that exists at \"t\". (Sider 2001: 60).\nSider also gave an alternative definition that is compatible with presentism, using the tensed operators \"WILL\" and \"WAS\":\n\"x\" is an \"instantaneous temporal part\" of \"y\" = (i) \"x\" is a part of \"y\"; (ii) \"x\" overlaps every part of \"y\"; (iii) it is not the case that WILL (\"x\" exists); (iv) it is not the case that WAS (\"x\" exists). (Sider 2001: 71).\nWhile Sider's definition is most commonly used, Zimmerman—troubled by the demand for \"instants\" (which may not exist in a gunky space-time that is such that every region has a sub-region)—gives the following:\n\"x\" is a temporal part of \"y\" throughout \"T\" = (i) \"x\" exists during and only during \"T\"; (ii) for every subinterval \"T\"* of \"T\", there is a \"z\" such that (a) \"z\" is a part of \"x\", and (b) for all \"u\", \"u\" has a part in common with \"z\" during \"T\"* if and only if \"u\" has a part in common with \"y\" during \"T\"*; and (iii) \"y\" exists at times outside of \"T\". (Zimmerman 1996: 122)\nTemporal parts are sometimes used to account for change. The problem of change is just that if an object x and an object y have different properties, then by Leibniz's Law, one ought to conclude that they are different. For example, if a person changes from having long hair to short hair, then the temporal-parts theorist can say that change is the difference between the temporal parts of a temporally extended object (the person). So, the person changes by having a temporal part with long hair, and a temporal part with short hair; the temporal parts are different, which is consistent with Leibniz's Law.\n\nHowever, those who reject the notion that ordinary objects, like people, have temporal parts usually adopt a more common-sense view. They say that an object has properties at times. In this view, the person changes by having long hair at \"t\", to short hair at \"t\"'. To them, there is no contradiction in thinking an object is capable of having different properties at different times.\n\nAn argument widely held to favor the concept of temporal parts arises from these points (Sider, 2001): David Lewis' argument from temporary intrinsics, which he first advanced in \"On the Plurality of Worlds\". The outline of the argument is as follows:\n\nPremise P1 is an intuitive premise; generally we distinguish between properties and relations. An \"intrinsic property\" is just a property that something has independently of anything else; an \"extrinsic property\" is had only in relation to something. An example of an extrinsic property is \"fatherhood\": something is a father only if that something is a male and has a child. An example of an alleged intrinsic property is \"shape\".\n\nAccording to Lewis (Sider, 2001), if we know what \"shapes\" are, we know them to be properties, not relations. However, if properties are had to times, as endurantists say, then no property is intrinsic. Even if a ball is round throughout its existence, the endurantist must say \"for all times in which the ball exists, the ball is round, i.e., it is round at those times; it has the property 'being round at a time'.\" So, if all properties are had to times, then there are no intrinsic properties, (premise P2).\n\nHowever, if we think that Lewis is right and some properties are intrinsic, then some properties are not had to times—they are had \"simpliciter\" (premise C1).\n\nIt might be said that premise P3 is more controversial. For instance, suppose a timeless world is possible. If that were so, then in that world, even if there were intrinsic properties, they would not be had by temporal parts—since by definition a timeless world has no temporal dimension, and therefore in such a world there cannot be temporal parts. However, our world is \"not\" timeless, and the possibility of timeless worlds is questionable, so it seems reasonable to think that in worlds with a temporal dimension, only temporal parts can have properties \"simpliciter\".\n\nThis is so because temporal parts exist only at an instant, and therefore it makes no sense to speak of them as having properties at a time. Temporal parts have properties, and have a temporal location. So if person A changes from having long hair to having short hair, then that can be paraphrased by saying that there is a temporal part of A that has long hair \"simpliciter\" and another that has short hair \"simpliciter\", and the latter is after the former in the temporal sequence; that supports premise P3.\n\nPremise C2 follows, so long as one is not considering empty worlds—if such worlds are even possible. An empty world doesn't have objects that change by having a temporal part with a certain property and another temporal part with a certain other property.\n\nPremise P1, the key premise of the argument, can be coherently denied even if the resulting view—the abandonment of intrinsic properties—is counterintuitive. There are, however, ways to support the argument if one accepts relationalism about space-time.\n\n\nA collection of essays on persistence and temporal parts is:\n\n"}
{"id": "37807928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37807928", "title": "The Philosophy of 'As if'", "text": "The Philosophy of 'As if'\n\nThe Philosophy of 'As if': A System of the Theoretical, Practical and Religious Fictions of Mankind () is a 1911 book by the German philosopher Hans Vaihinger, based on his dissertation of 1877. The work for which Vaihinger is best known, it was published in an English translation by C. K. Ogden in 1924. In 1935, a revised and abbreviated English translation by Ogden was published. The revised translation was based on the sixth German edition of the original work.\n\n\"The Philosophy of 'As if\"' influenced both Sigmund Freud since his 1913 letter to Sándor Ferenczi, and Alfred Adler in his 1912 book \"Über den nervösen Charakter. Grundzüge einer vergleichenden Individualpsychologie und Psychotherapie\" (English translation: \"The Neurotic Constitution. Outlines of a Comparative Individualistic Psychology and Psychotherapy\"). Though it contained the first use of the term \"logical positivism\", the logical positivists were generally dismissive of the work. The philosopher Moritz Schlick wrote that Vaihinger's description of his philosophy as a form of \"idealist positivism\" was one of its many contradictions.\n\nThe American journalist H. L. Mencken was scathing in his criticism of the book, which he dismissed as an unimportant \"foot-note to all existing systems\". Michael J. Inwood writes that Vaihinger's theory \"involves familiar, though not necessarily insurmountable, difficulties\". He finds it open to criticism on the grounds that it involves a covert appeal to a non-pragmatic concept of truth. He also notes that the theory implies that claims about the utility of holding doctrines and even the theory itself are no more than useful fictions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14559062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14559062", "title": "The Problem of Social Cost", "text": "The Problem of Social Cost\n\n\"The Problem of Social Cost\" (1960) by Ronald Coase, then a faculty member at the University of Virginia, is an article dealing with the economic problem of externalities. It draws from a number of English legal cases and statutes to illustrate Coase's belief that legal rules are only justified by reference to a cost–benefit analysis, and that nuisances that are often regarded as being the fault of one party are more symmetric conflicts between the interests of the two parties. If there are sufficiently low costs of doing a transaction, legal rules would be irrelevant to the maximization of production. Because in the real world there are costs of bargaining and information gathering, legal rules are justified to the extent of their ability to allocate rights to the most efficient right-bearer. \n\nAlong with an earlier article, “The Nature of the Firm”, \"The Problem of Social Cost\" was cited by the Nobel committee when Coase was awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 1991. The article is foundational to the field of law and economics, and has become the most frequently cited work in all of legal scholarship.\n\nCoase argued that if we lived in a world without transaction costs, people would bargain with one another to produce the most efficient distribution of resources, regardless of the initial allocation. This is superior to allocation through litigation. Coase used the example of a nuisance case named \"Sturges v Bridgman\", where a noisy sweetmaker and a quiet doctor were neighbours and went to court to see who should have to move. Coase said that regardless of whether the judge ruled that the sweetmaker had to stop using his machinery, or that the doctor had to put up with it, they could strike a mutually beneficial bargain about who moves that reaches the same outcome of productive activity.\n\nHowever, many welfare-maximizing reallocations are often forgone because of the transaction costs involved in bargaining. For instance, the sweetmaker may have many neighbors who claim \"nuisance\" — some legitimate and some not, that the firm would have to sort through, and some of those neighbors who do claim nuisance may try to hold out for excessive compensation. In these cases, the transaction costs eat away, and ultimately eclipse, the price signals that would have led to the most efficient distribution of resources.\n\nIn cases like these with potentially high transaction costs, the law ought to produce an outcome similar to what would result if the transaction costs were eliminated. Hence courts should be guided by the most efficient solution.\n\nThe ultimate thesis is that law and regulation are not as important or effective at helping people as lawyers and government planners believe. Coase and others like him wanted a change of approach, to put the burden of proof for positive effects on a government that was intervening in the market, by analysing the costs of action.\n\nThe argument forms the basis of the Coase Theorem as labeled by George Stigler.\n\nGuido Calabresi in his book \"The Costs of Accidents\" (1970) argues that it is still efficient to hold companies liable that produce greater wealth.\n\nIn the real world, where people cannot negotiate costlessly, there may be collective action problems of those who caused a nuisance, for instance by smoke emissions from a factory to many neighbouring farms, and so getting together to negotiate effectively can be difficult against a single polluter because of coordination problems. If it is efficient for the farmers to pay the factory to reduce its emissions, some of those farmers may hold off paying their fair share, hoping to get a free ride. The factory may be in a better position to know what measures to take to reduce harm, and can be the cheapest avoider, illustrating Coase's argument.\n\nCoase uses three main examples in his article to attempt to illustrate his points. The first is a fictional cattle herder and a farmer, but the second is the case \"Sturges v Bridgman\" and the third is the Railway (Fires) Act 1905. Apart from these main examples, the following cases are referred to.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30746", "title": "Theory", "text": "Theory\n\nA theory is a contemplative and rational type of abstract or generalizing thinking, or the results of such thinking. Depending on the context, the results might, for example, include generalized explanations of how nature works. The word has its roots in ancient Greek, but in modern use it has taken on several related meanings.\n\nTheories guide the enterprise of finding facts rather than of reaching goals, and are neutral concerning alternatives among values. A theory can be a body of knowledge, which may or may not be associated with particular explanatory models. To theorize is to develop this body of knowledge.\n\nAs already in Aristotle's definitions, theory is very often contrasted to \"practice\" (from Greek \"\", πρᾶξις) a Greek term for \"doing\", which is opposed to theory because pure theory involves no doing apart from itself. A classical example of the distinction between \"theoretical\" and \"practical\" uses the discipline of medicine: medical theory involves trying to understand the causes and nature of health and sickness, while the practical side of medicine is trying to make people healthy. These two things are related but can be independent, because it is possible to research health and sickness without curing specific patients, and it is possible to cure a patient without knowing how the cure worked.\n\nIn modern science, the term \"theory\" refers to scientific theories, a well-confirmed type of explanation of nature, made in a way consistent with scientific method, and fulfilling the criteria required by modern science. Such theories are described in such a way that scientific tests should be able to provide empirical support for, or empirically contradict (\"falsify\") it. Scientific theories are the most reliable, rigorous, and comprehensive form of scientific knowledge, in contrast to more common uses of the word \"theory\" that imply that something is unproven or speculative (which in formal terms is better characterized by the word \"hypothesis\"). Scientific theories are distinguished from hypotheses, which are individual empirically testable conjectures, and from scientific laws, which are descriptive accounts of how nature behaves under certain conditions.\n\nThe English word \"theory\" derives from a technical term in philosophy in Ancient Greek. As an everyday word, \"theoria\", , meant \"a looking at, viewing, beholding\", but in more technical contexts it came to refer to contemplative or speculative understandings of natural things, such as those of natural philosophers, as opposed to more practical ways of knowing things, like that of skilled orators or artisans. English-speakers have used the word \"theory\" since at least the late 16th century. Modern uses of the word \"theory\" derive from the original definition, but have taken on new shades of meaning, still based on the idea of a theory as a thoughtful and rational explanation of the general nature of things.\n\nAlthough it has more mundane meanings in Greek, the word apparently developed special uses early in the recorded history of the Greek language. In the book \"From Religion to Philosophy\", Francis Cornford suggests that the Orphics used the word \"theoria\" to mean \"passionate sympathetic contemplation\". Pythagoras changed the word to mean a passionate sympathetic contemplation of mathematical knowledge, because he considered this intellectual pursuit the way to reach the highest plane of existence. Pythagoras emphasized subduing emotions and bodily desires to help the intellect function at the higher plane of theory. Thus, it was Pythagoras who gave the word \"theory\" the specific meaning that led to the classical and modern concept of a distinction between theory (as uninvolved, neutral thinking) and practice.\n\nAristotle's terminology, as already mentioned, contrasts theory with \"praxis\" or practice, and this contrast remains today. For Aristotle, both practice and theory involve thinking, but the aims are different. Theoretical contemplation considers things humans do not move or change, such as nature, so it has no human aim apart from itself and the knowledge it helps create. On the other hand, \"praxis\" involves thinking, but always with an aim to desired actions, whereby humans cause change or movement themselves for their own ends. Any human movement that involves no conscious choice and thinking could not be an example of \"praxis\" or doing.\n\nTheories are analytical tools for understanding, explaining, and making predictions about a given subject matter. There are theories in many and varied fields of study, including the arts and sciences. A formal theory is syntactic in nature and is only meaningful when given a semantic component by applying it to some content (e.g., facts and relationships of the actual historical world as it is unfolding). Theories in various fields of study are expressed in natural language, but are always constructed in such a way that their general form is identical to a theory as it is expressed in the formal language of mathematical logic. Theories may be expressed mathematically, symbolically, or in common language, but are generally expected to follow principles of rational thought or logic.\n\nTheory is constructed of a set of sentences that are entirely true statements about the subject under consideration. However, the truth of any one of these statements is always relative to the whole theory. Therefore, the same statement may be true with respect to one theory, and not true with respect to another. This is, in ordinary language, where statements such as \"He is a terrible person\" cannot be judged as true or false without reference to some interpretation of who \"He\" is and for that matter what a \"terrible person\" is under the theory.\n\nSometimes two theories have exactly the same explanatory power because they make the same predictions. A pair of such theories is called indistinguishable or observationally equivalent, and the choice between them reduces to convenience or philosophical preference.\n\nThe form of theories is studied formally in mathematical logic, especially in model theory. When theories are studied in mathematics, they are usually expressed in some formal language and their statements are closed under application of certain procedures called rules of inference. A special case of this, an axiomatic theory, consists of axioms (or axiom schemata) and rules of inference. A theorem is a statement that can be derived from those axioms by application of these rules of inference. Theories used in applications are abstractions of observed phenomena and the resulting theorems provide solutions to real-world problems. Obvious examples include arithmetic (abstracting concepts of number), geometry (concepts of space), and probability (concepts of randomness and likelihood).\n\nGödel's incompleteness theorem shows that no consistent, recursively enumerable theory (that is, one whose theorems form a recursively enumerable set) in which the concept of natural numbers can be expressed, can include all true statements about them. As a result, some domains of knowledge cannot be formalized, accurately and completely, as mathematical theories. (Here, formalizing accurately and completely means that all true propositions—and only true propositions—are derivable within the mathematical system.) This limitation, however, in no way precludes the construction of mathematical theories that formalize large bodies of scientific knowledge.\n\nA theory is \"underdetermined\" (also called \"indeterminacy of data to theory\") if a rival, inconsistent theory is at least as consistent with the evidence. Underdetermination is an epistemological issue about the relation of evidence to conclusions.\n\nA theory that lacks supporting evidence is generally, more properly, referred to as a hypothesis.\n\nIf a new theory better explains and predicts a phenomenon than an old theory (i.e., it has more explanatory power), we are justified in believing that the newer theory describes reality more correctly. This is called an \"intertheoretic reduction\" because the terms of the old theory can be reduced to the terms of the new one. For instance, our historical understanding about \"sound\", \"light\" and \"heat\" have been reduced to \"wave compressions and rarefactions\", \"electromagnetic waves\", and \"molecular kinetic energy\", respectively. These terms, which are identified with each other, are called \"intertheoretic identities.\" When an old and new theory are parallel in this way, we can conclude that the new one describes the same reality, only more completely.\n\nWhen a new theory uses new terms that do not reduce to terms of an older theory, but rather replace them because they misrepresent reality, it is called an \"intertheoretic elimination.\" For instance, the obsolete scientific theory that put forward an understanding of heat transfer in terms of the movement of caloric fluid was eliminated when a theory of heat as energy replaced it. Also, the theory that phlogiston is a substance released from burning and rusting material was eliminated with the new understanding of the reactivity of oxygen.\n\nTheories are distinct from theorems. A \"theorem\" is derived deductively from axioms (basic assumptions) according to a formal system of rules, sometimes as an end in itself and sometimes as a first step toward being tested or applied in a concrete situation; theorems are said to be true in the sense that the conclusions of a theorem are logical consequences of the axioms. \"Theories\" are abstract and conceptual, and are supported or challenged by observations in the world. They are 'rigorously tentative', meaning that they are proposed as true and expected to satisfy careful examination to account for the possibility of faulty inference or incorrect observation. Sometimes theories are incorrect, meaning that an explicit set of observations contradicts some fundamental objection or application of the theory, but more often theories are corrected to conform to new observations, by restricting the class of phenomena the theory applies to or changing the assertions made. An example of the former is the restriction of classical mechanics to phenomena involving macroscopic length scales and particle speeds much lower than the speed of light.\n\nIn science, the term \"theory\" refers to \"a well-substantiated explanation of some aspect of the natural world, based on a body of facts that have been repeatedly confirmed through observation and experiment.\" Theories must also meet further requirements, such as the ability to make falsifiable predictions with consistent accuracy across a broad area of scientific inquiry, and production of strong evidence in favor of the theory from multiple independent sources (consilience).\n\nThe strength of a scientific theory is related to the diversity of phenomena it can explain, which is measured by its ability to make falsifiable predictions with respect to those phenomena. Theories are improved (or replaced by better theories) as more evidence is gathered, so that accuracy in prediction improves over time; this increased accuracy corresponds to an increase in scientific knowledge. Scientists use theories as a foundation to gain further scientific knowledge, as well as to accomplish goals such as inventing technology or curing disease.\n\nThe United States National Academy of Sciences defines scientific theories as follows:\nThe formal scientific definition of \"theory\" is quite different from the everyday meaning of the word. It refers to a comprehensive explanation of some aspect of nature that is supported by a vast body of evidence. Many scientific theories are so well established that no new evidence is likely to alter them substantially. For example, no new evidence will demonstrate that the Earth does not orbit around the sun (heliocentric theory), or that living things are not made of cells (cell theory), that matter is not composed of atoms, or that the surface of the Earth is not divided into solid plates that have moved over geological timescales (the theory of plate tectonics)...One of the most useful properties of scientific theories is that they can be used to make predictions about natural events or phenomena that have not yet been observed.\n\nFrom the American Association for the Advancement of Science:\nA scientific theory is a well-substantiated explanation of some aspect of the natural world, based on a body of facts that have been repeatedly confirmed through observation and experiment. Such fact-supported theories are not \"guesses\" but reliable accounts of the real world. The theory of biological evolution is more than \"just a theory.\" It is as factual an explanation of the universe as the atomic theory of matter or the germ theory of disease. Our understanding of gravity is still a work in progress. But the phenomenon of gravity, like evolution, is an accepted fact.\n\nNote that the term \"theory\" would not be appropriate for describing untested but intricate hypotheses or even scientific models.\n\nThe logical positivists thought of scientific theories as \"deductive theories\"—that a theory's content is based on some formal system of logic and on basic axioms. In a deductive theory, any sentence which is a logical consequence of one or more of the axioms is also a sentence of that theory. This is called the received view of theories.\n\nIn the semantic view of theories, which has largely replaced the received view, theories are viewed as scientific models. A model is a logical framework intended to represent reality (a \"model of reality\"), similar to the way that a map is a graphical model that represents the territory of a city or country. In this approach, theories are a specific category of models that fulfill the necessary criteria. (See Theories as models for further discussion.)\n\nIn physics the term \"theory\" is generally used for a mathematical framework—derived from a small set of basic postulates (usually symmetries, like equality of locations in space or in time, or identity of electrons, etc.)—which is capable of producing experimental predictions for a given category of physical systems. One good example is classical electromagnetism, which encompasses results derived from gauge symmetry (sometimes called gauge invariance) in a form of a few equations called Maxwell's equations. The specific mathematical aspects of classical electromagnetic theory are termed \"laws of electromagnetism\", reflecting the level of consistent and reproducible evidence that supports them. Within electromagnetic theory generally, there are numerous hypotheses about how electromagnetism applies to specific situations. Many of these hypotheses are already considered adequately tested, with new ones always in the making and perhaps untested.\n\nAcceptance of a theory does not require that all of its major predictions be tested, if it is already supported by sufficiently strong evidence. For example, certain tests may be infeasible or technically difficult. As a result, theories may make predictions that have not yet been confirmed or proven incorrect; in this case, the predicted results may be described informally using the term \"theoretical.\" These predictions can be tested at a later time, and if they are incorrect, this may lead to revision, invalidation, or rejection of the theory.\n\nA theory can be either \"descriptive\" as in science, or \"prescriptive\" (normative) as in philosophy. The latter are those whose subject matter consists not of empirical data, but rather of ideas. At least some of the elementary theorems of a philosophical theory are statements whose truth cannot necessarily be scientifically tested through empirical observation.\n\nA field of study is sometimes named a \"theory\" because its basis is some initial set of assumptions describing the field's approach to the subject. These assumptions are the elementary theorems of the particular theory, and can be thought of as the axioms of that field. Some commonly known examples include set theory and number theory; however literary theory, critical theory, and music theory are also of the same form.\n\nOne form of philosophical theory is a \"metatheory\" or \"meta-theory\". A metatheory is a theory whose subject matter is some other theory or set of theories. In other words, it is a theory about theories. Statements made in the metatheory about the theory are called metatheorems.\n\nA political theory is an ethical theory about the law and government. Often the term \"political theory\" refers to a general view, or specific ethic, political belief or attitude, about politics.\n\nIn social science, jurisprudence is the philosophical theory of law. Contemporary philosophy of law addresses problems internal to law and legal systems, and problems of law as a particular social institution.\n\nMost of the following are scientific theories; some are not, but rather encompass a body of knowledge or art, such as Music theory and Visual Arts Theories.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35494560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35494560", "title": "Tiantong Zongjue", "text": "Tiantong Zongjue\n\nTiantong Zongjue (; ), was a Chinese Zen Buddhist monk during the Song Dynasty. He was born in Hezhou, but left home to practice Buddhism at the age of sixteen. His ordination took place two years later. Zuzhao Daohe of the Yunmen School was his first teacher. However, Daohe retired and was replaced by Zhenxie Qingliao of the Caodong/Sōtō School, who became the teacher that gave Zongjue dharma transmission. In 1132, Zongjue became the abbot of Yuelin Temple where he served for 23 years. After this period, his abbacy switched to Mt. Xuedou. He remained there for four years before becoming the abbot of Tiantong Monastery near the modern city of Ningbo in 1159. He was replacing the former abbot, the famous Hongzhi Zhengjue, who died there in 1157. It was from this final temple, where Zongjue died in 1162, that he took his name. Tiantong temple was the same monastery where Eihei Dogen studied under Tiantong Rujing before bringing the teaching back to Japan and founding the Sōtō School.\n"}
{"id": "7147336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7147336", "title": "Timbuktu Manuscripts", "text": "Timbuktu Manuscripts\n\nTimbuktu Manuscripts (or Tombouctou Manuscripts) is a blanket term for the large number of historically important manuscripts that have been preserved for centuries in private households in Timbuktu, Mali. The collections include manuscripts about art, medicine, philosophy, and science, as well as copies of the Quran. The number of manuscripts in the collections has been estimated as high as 700,000.\n\nThe manuscripts were written in Arabic and local languages like Songhay and Tamasheq. The dates of the manuscripts ranged between the late 13th and the early 20th centuries (i.e., from the Islamisation of the Mali Empire until the decline of traditional education in French Sudan).\nTheir subject matter ranged from scholarly works to short letters. The manuscripts were passed down in Timbuktu families and were mostly in poor condition. Most of the manuscripts remain unstudied and uncatalogued, and their total number is unknown, affording only rough estimates. A selection of about 160 manuscripts from the Mamma Haidara Library in Timbuktu and the Ahmed Baba collection were digitized by the \"Tombouctou Manuscripts Project\" in the 2000s.\n\nWith the demise of Arabic education in Mali under French colonial rule, appreciation for the medieval manuscripts declined in Timbuktu, and many were being sold off. \"Time\" magazine related the account of an imam who picked up four of them for $50 each. In October 2008 one of the households was flooded, destroying 700 manuscripts.\n\nIn 1970, UNESCO founded an organization which included among its tasks preservation of the manuscripts, but it went unfunded until 1977. In 1998, Harvard University professor Henry Louis Gates visited Timbuktu for his PBS series \"Wonders of the African World\". The series raised public and academic awareness of the manuscripts, which led to a pool of funding opening up.\n\nThe \"Timbuktu Manuscripts Project\" was a project of the University of Oslo running from 1999 - 2007, the goal of which was to assist in physically preserving the manuscripts, digitize them and building an electronic catalogue, and making them accessible for research. It was funded by the government of Luxembourg along with the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD), the Ford Foundation, the Norwegian Council for Higher Education's Programme for Development Research and Education (NUFU), and the United States' Ambassadors Fund for Cultural Preservation. Among the results of the project are: reviving the ancient art of bookbinding and training a solid number of local specialists; devising and setting up an electronic database to catalogue the manuscripts held at the Institut des Hautes Études et de Recherche Islamique – Ahmad Baba (IHERI-AB); digitizing a large number of manuscripts held at the IHERIAB; facilitating scholarly and technical exchange with manuscript experts in Morocco and other countries; reviving IHERI-AB's journal \"Sankoré\"; and publishing the splendidly illustrated book, \"The Hidden Treasures of Timbuktu: Rediscovering Africa's Literary Culture\".\n\nSince the end of this project, the cooperation of Grand-Duché de Luxembourg has funded a new project called \"Timbuktu Manuscripts\". This project aims at protecting and promoting Timbuktu Manuscripts, for economic, social and cultural development of the area. It is implemented by the Lux-Development agency and the goals are:\n\n\nSince the events in the North of Mali in 2012, the project MLI/015 works with its main partners in Bamako on result 1. These key partners are the IHERI-AB (Institut des Hautes Etudes et de Recherche Islamique Ahmed Baba) and the SAVAMA DCI (Association de Sauvegarde et de Mise en Valeur des Manuscrits et de Défense de la Culture Islamique). Beginning of 2013, they had completed an important work of describing 10,000 manuscripts through standardized registration forms.\n\nThe \"Timbuktu Manuscripts Project\" is a separate project run by the University of Cape Town. In a partnership with the government of South Africa, which contributed to the Timbuktu trust fund, this project is the first official cultural project of the New Partnership for Africa's Development. It was founded in 2003 and is ongoing. They released a report on the project in 2008. As well as preserving the manuscripts, the Cape Town project also aims to make access to public and private libraries around Timbuktu more widely available. The project's online database is accessible to researchers only. In 2015 it was announced that the Timbuktu trust fund would close after receiving no more funds from the South African government.\n\nA book about Timbuktu, published in 2008, contains a chapter with some discussions of a few of the texts.\n\nDigital images of thirty-two manuscripts from the private Mamma Haïdara Library are available from the United States Library of Congress; a subset of these are also accessible from the United Nations' World Digital Library website.\n\nA movie about the Timbuktu Manuscript Project, \"The Ancient Astronomers of Timbuktu\", was released in 2009, with funding from the Ford Foundation and Oppenheimer Memorial Trust.\n\nAlso in 2009, the French/German cultural TV channel ARTE produced a feature-length film about Timbuktu's manuscript heritage: \"Tombouctou: les manuscrits sauvés des sables | Timbuktus verschollenes Erbe: vom Sande verweht\",\nAnother film on the subject was also released in 2009, entitled \"Manuscripts of Timbuktu. The film was made by South African director Zola Maseko, executive produced by the South African Broadcasting Corporation and distributed by California Newsreel.\n\nIn 2013, BBC Four has produced a documentary called \"The Lost Libraries of Timbuktu.\"\n\nIn 2016, a book about the manuscripts and the efforts to save them in the midst of the assault and occupation of northern Mali by Islamists jihadis, was published. The book, \"The Bad-Ass Librarians of Timbuktu\" by Joshua Hammer, provides vivid details about the collection of the manuscripts into libraries, and subsequent efforts to remove them to safety during the dangerous conflict, in which the Islamist jihadis threatened to destroy them.\n\nIn 2017, Charlie English published \"The Storied City : The Quest for Timbuktu and the Fantastic Mission to Save Its Past\" which tells in alternating chapters the history of European expeditions (1795 – 1860) in search of the mystical city and the Herculean rescue efforts undertaken by Haidara and others to save the manuscripts from destruction by the jihadis (2012). [33]\n\nMany of the manuscripts were reported destroyed in January 2013, along with many other monuments of medieval Islamic culture in Timbuktu, by the Islamist rebels of Ansar Dine in the Northern Mali conflict. The Ahmed Baba Institute and a library, both containing thousands of manuscripts, were said to have been burnt as the Islamists retreated from Timbuktu. Journalists, however, found that at least one of the libraries was largely undamaged, and that only a few small piles of ash were present, suggesting that at least some of the documents survived.\n\nAboubacry Moussa Lam was a signatory to an appeal to preserve the Timbuktu Manuscripts.\n\nA former Malian presidential aide, as well as several other people involved with preserving the manuscripts, said that the documents had been evacuated into a safe location in 2012 before the fighters invaded Timbuktu. U.S. based book preservation expert Stephanie Diakité and Dr. Abdel Kader Haidara, curator of one of the most important libraries of Timbuktu, a position handed down in his family for generations, organized the evacuation of the manuscripts to Bamako in the south of Mali. Timbuktu has a long tradition of celebrating and honoring family manuscript collections. It is traditional for a family member to “swear publicly that he will protect the library for as long as he lives.” During the evacuation process, Haidara relied on local families to hide the Ahmed Baba Institute’s manuscript collection in their homes before the texts were ultimately transported to Bamako. The evacuation was supported by international organizations, such as the Prince Claus Fund for Culture and Development, whose initial commitment was followed by financial support from other organisations such as the Doen Foundation and Ford Foundation. Abdel Kader thanked SAVAMA-DCI and their partners in a letter for enabling the evacuation of the manuscripts to the cities in the south of the country and supporting their storage.\nHowever, once in the south the manuscripts faced new dangers: mold and humidity. Stephanie Diakité and Dr. Abdel Kader Haidara began a campaign to raise money for the preservation of the books including a crowd-funding campaign called \"Timbuktu Libraries in Exile,\" which is currently hosted by the crowdfunding site T160K.org. Whereas many institutions have provided funding, equipment and/or training, the leading role in all the proceedings is played by the local people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15345630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15345630", "title": "Urso of Calabria", "text": "Urso of Calabria\n\nUrso of Calabria also Urso of Salerno, Ursus Salernitanus, Urso di Calabria. (died 1225) was an Italian scholastic philosopher and significant author of medical works in the school of Salerno. He has been thought the leading figure of the school and its most important theoretician and Aristotelian. He had a European reputation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48127571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48127571", "title": "Vladimir Spirin", "text": "Vladimir Spirin\n\nVladimir Semionovich Spirin (Russian: Владимир Семёнович Спирин) (born May 5, 1929 - died May 17, 2002) was a Russian philologist, sinologist, historian, lecturer of Saint Petersburg State University, researcher at Saint Petersburg's branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Saint Petersburg Russia, Candidate of Sciences (equiv. Ph.D.). His primary scientific interests resided in the field of classical Chinese philology and Chinese philosophy.\n\nDr. Spirin graduated in 1952 from the East Asian Studies Department at the Saint Petersburg State University and started to work as a researcher at Saint Petersburg's (then Leningrad) branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences, where he worked until his death. Since 1957, he had been a member of the research group that worked on description of Dunhuang manuscripts, preserved in Russia (other members were Dr. Lev Menshikov, S.A. Schcolyar, etc.) In the 1960s, during the time of the Cultural Revolution, he conducted studies in China for nine months. He defended his doctoral thesis (Candidate of Sciences, Philosophy) in 1970, under the title of \"On Methodological Problems of Studying the Classic Chinese Philosophy: In Relation to the Analysis of Text Structures\". Since 1977 and until 1990s, he taught the Classic Chinese Philosophy to philosophy students at the Saint Petersburg State University, as an invited lecturer.\n\nHis main area of research had been methodological problems of studying classic Chinese texts. He developed an original structural approach to the texts, and discovered various types of textological structures in the classic Chinese culture. His method of graphic description of textual structures, providing simplicity and easy visualization, according to some researchers, reminds graphic methods of logical description such as Lambert's lines or Eiler's circles, as well as the implementation of graphic description in thermodynamics by Clapeyron. Spirin's work strongly influenced the study of Chinese culture in Russia, especially the younger generation of sinologists, working in Moscow (based in Leningrad he was not in permanent direct contact with these researchers). For example, according to A. Kobzev, Spirin's structural semiotic approach was intensively used by A.Karapetiantz. Spirin also influenced such Russian researchers as A.Kobzev, A.Krushinsky, M.Isayeva, V.Dorofeeva-Lichtman, etc.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "314725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314725", "title": "William Lane Craig", "text": "William Lane Craig\n\nWilliam Lane Craig (born August 23, 1949) is an American analytic philosopher and Christian theologian. He holds faculty positions at Talbot School of Theology (Biola University) and Houston Baptist University. Craig has developed and defended the Kalam cosmological argument for the existence of God. He also focused in his published work on a historical argument for the resurrection of Jesus. His research on divine aseity and Platonism culminated with his book \"God Over All\". He has also debated the existence of God with public figures such as Sam Harris, Christopher Hitchens, Lawrence M. Krauss and A. C. Grayling Craig established and runs the online apologetics ministry ReasonableFaith.org.\n\nBorn August 23, 1949, in Peoria, Illinois, Craig is born to Mallory and Doris Craig. His father's work with the T. P. & W. railroad took the family to Keokuk, Iowa, until his transfer to the home office in East Peoria in 1960. While a student at East Peoria Community High School (1963–1967), Craig became a championship debater and public speaker, being named his senior year to the all-state debate team and winning the state championship in oratory. In September 1965, his junior year, he converted to Christianity, and after graduating from high school, attended Wheaton College, majoring in communications. Craig graduated in 1971 and the following year married his wife Jan, whom he met on the staff of Campus Crusade for Christ. In 2014, he was named alumnus of the year by Wheaton.\n\nIn 1973 Craig entered the program in philosophy of religion at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School north of Chicago, where he studied under Norman Geisler. In 1975 Craig commenced doctoral studies in philosophy at the University of Birmingham in England, writing on the cosmological argument under the direction of John Hick. He was awarded a doctorate in 1977. Out of this study came his first book, \"The Kalam Cosmological Argument\" (1979), a defense of the argument he first encountered in Hackett's work. Craig was awarded a postdoctoral fellowship in 1978 from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation to pursue research on the historicity of the resurrection of Jesus under the direction of Wolfhart Pannenberg at the Ludwig-Maximillians-Universität München in Germany. His studies in Munich under Pannenberg's supervision led to a second doctorate, this one in theology, awarded in 1984 with the publication of his doctoral thesis, \"The Historical Argument for the Resurrection of Jesus During the Deist Controversy\" (1985).\n\nCraig joined the faculty of Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in 1980, where he taught philosophy of religion for the next seven years. In 1982 Craig received an invitation to debate Kai Nielsen at the University of Calgary, Canada, on the question of God's existence, and has since then debated many philosophers, scientists, and biblical scholars.\n\nAfter a one-year stint at Westmont College on the outskirts of Santa Barbara, Craig moved in 1987 with his wife and two young children back to Europe, where he pursued research for the next seven years as a visiting scholar at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (Louvain) in Belgium. Out of that period of research issued seven books, among them \"God, Time, and Eternity\" (2001). In 1994, Craig joined the Department of Philosophy and Ethics at Talbot School of Theology in suburban Los Angeles as a Research Professor of Philosophy, a position he currently holds, and he went on to become a Professor of Philosophy at Houston Baptist University in 2014. In 2016, Craig was named Alumnus of the Year by Trinity Evangelical Divinity School. In 2017, Biola created a permanent faculty position and endowed chair, the William Lane Craig Endowed Chair in Philosophy, in honor of Craig's academic contributions.\n\nCraig served as president of the Philosophy of Time Society from 1999 to 2006. He helped found the Evangelical Philosophical Society and served as its president from 1996 to 2005.\n\nCraig has worked extensively on a version of the cosmological argument called the \"Kalam cosmological argument\". While the \"Kalam\" has a venerable history in medieval Islamic philosophy, Craig updated the argument to interact with contemporary scientific and philosophical developments. Craig's research resulted in renewed contemporary interest in the argument, and in cosmological arguments in general; the philosopher Quentin Smith states: \"a count of the articles in the philosophy journals shows that more articles have been published about Craig's defense of the Kalam argument than have been published about any other philosopher’s contemporary formulation of an argument for God's existence.\"\n\nCraig formulates his \"Kalām Cosmological Argument\" in the following manner:\n\nIn his later literature, Craig sometimes uses a more modest version of the first premise, in order to bypass certain issues:\n\nPhilosophically, Craig uses two traditional arguments to show that time is finite: he argues that the existence of an actual infinite is metaphysically impossible, and that forming an actual infinite through successive addition is metaphysically impossible.\n\nGranting the strict logical consistency of post-Cantorian, axiomatized infinite set theory, Craig concludes that the existence of an actually infinite number of things is metaphysically impossible due to the consequential absurdities that arise. Craig illustrates this point using the example of Hilbert's paradox of the Grand Hotel. In Hilbert's hypothetical fully occupied hotel with infinitely many rooms, one can add an additional guest in room #1 by moving the guest in room #1 to room #2, the guest in room #2 into room #3, the guest in room #3 into room #4 and continue the shifting of rooms out to infinity. Craig points out that it is absurd to add an additional guest to a fully occupied hotel and the absurd result that the hotel has the same number of guests, infinity, both before after adding the additional guest. Stating that the mathematical conventions stipulated to ensure the logical consistency of this type of transfinite arithmetic have no ontological force, Craig concludes that finitism is most plausibly true, which means that the series of past events in the universe must be finite, so it must have had a beginning.\n\nCraig says that just as it is impossible, despite the proponents of \"super-tasks\", to count to infinity, so it is metaphysically impossible to count down from infinity. Craig says that an inversion of the story of Tristram Shandy is a counter-intuitive absurdity that could result from the formation of an actual infinite. Craig claims that if the universe were eternal, an infinite number of events would have occurred before the present moment, which he says is impossible.\n\nOne of Craig's contributions to the kalam cosmological argument is his reference to astrophysics in support of the universe's beginning, namely the expansion of the universe and thermodynamics.\n\nCraig says that the Friedmann–Lemaître–Robertson–Walker metric Big Bang model predicts a cosmic singularity, which marks the origin of the universe in the finite past. Craig says that competing models which do not imply an origin of the universe have either proved to be untenable (such as the steady state model and vacuum fluctuation models) or implied the beginning of the universe they were designed to avoid (oscillating models, inflationary models, quantum gravity models). Craig says that the Borde-Guth-Vilenkin theorem of 2003 requires that any universe which has on average been in a state of cosmic expansion cannot be eternal.\n\nCraig believes that recent discoveries about the expansion of the universe and relativity theory support his view that thermodynamic properties of the universe show it is not eternal. Craig says that postulating a multiverse of worlds in varying thermodynamic states encounters the problem of Boltzmann brains—that it becomes highly probable for any observer that the universe is only an illusion of his own brain, a solipsistic conclusion Craig says no rational person would embrace.\n\nBased on these arguments, Craig concludes that the premise that the universe began to exist is more plausible than not, and conjoined with premise 1, the beginning of the universe implies the existence of a cause. Craig claims that, due to its nature, the cause must be an uncaused, beginningless, changeless, timeless, spaceless, immaterial being of enormous power, which he refers to as God.\n\nOne of the central questions raised by the classical doctrine of divine omniscience is the compatibility of divine foreknowledge and free will:\nAccording to Craig, the first question raises the issue of theological fatalism. He attempts to reduce this problem to the problem of logical fatalism, which holds that if it is true that E will happen, then E will happen necessarily. He challenges theological fatalists to show how the addition of God's knowing some future-tense statement to be true adds anything essential to the problem over and above that statement's being true.\n\nCraig says that theological fatalists have misunderstood \"temporal necessity\", or the necessity of the past, and that the impossibility of backward causation does not imply that one cannot have a sort of counterfactual power over past events.\n\nCraig surveyed the rejection of parallel fatalistic arguments in fields other than theology or philosophy of religion. He reviews discussions of backward causation,time travel, the special theory of relativity, precognition, and Newcomb's paradox to conclude that fatalistic reasoning has failed.\n\nThe second question arising from divine foreknowledge of future contingents concerns the means by which God knows such events. Craig says that the question presupposes a tensed or A-theory of time, for on a tenseless or B-theory of time there is no ontological distinction between past, present, and future, so that contingent events which are future relative to us are no more difficult for God to know than contingent events which are, relative to us, past or present. Distinguishing between perceptualist and conceptualist models of divine cognition, Craig says that models which construe God's foreknowledge of the future along perceptualist lines (God foresees what will happen) are difficult to reconcile with a tensed theory of time (though one might say that God perceives the present truth-values of future contingent propositions). He does not similarly challenge a conceptualist model which construes God's knowledge along the lines of innate ideas.\n\nThe doctrine of middle knowledge is one such conceptualist model of divine cognition which Craig has explored. Formulated by the Jesuit theologian Luis de Molina, the doctrine of middle knowledge holds that logically prior to his decree to create a world God knew what every possible creature he might create would freely do in any possible set of circumstances in which God might place him. On the basis of his knowledge of such counterfactuals of free will and his knowledge of his own decree to create certain creatures in certain circumstances, along with his own decision how he himself shall act, God automatically knows everything that will actually and contingently happen, without any perception of the world.\n\nCraig has become a proponent of Molinism, supporting middle knowledge and also applying it to a wide range of theological issues, such as divine providence and predestination, biblical inspiration, perseverance of the saints, Christian particularism, and the problem of evil.\n\nCraig's earlier work on the kalam cosmological argument and on divine omniscience intersected significantly with the philosophy of time and the nature of divine eternity.\n\nCraig examines arguments aimed at showing either that God is timeless or omnitemporal. He defends the coherence of a timeless and personal being, but says that the arguments for divine timelessness are unsound or inconclusive. By contrast, he gives two arguments in favor of divine temporality. First, he says that if a temporal world exists, then in virtue of his real relations to that world, God cannot remain untouched by its temporality. Craig says that given God's changing relations with the world he must change at least extrinsically, which is sufficient for his existing temporally. Second, Craig says that if a temporal world exists, then in virtue of his omniscience, God must know tensed facts about the world, such as what is happening now, which Craig argues is sufficient for his being temporally located. Craig argues that, since a temporal world does exist, it follows that God exists in time.\n\nCraig says that there is one way of escape from these arguments, which is to accept a B-Theory of time. Craig concludes that one's theory of time is a watershed issue for one's doctrine of divine eternity.\n\nIn \"The Tensed Theory of Time\" (2000) and \"The Tenseless Theory of Time\" (2000), Craig examines the arguments for and against the A- and B-Theories of time respectively.\n\nElements of Craig's philosophy of time differentiates between time itself and our measures of it (a classical Newtonian theme), and includes an analysis of spatial \"tenses\" to the location of the \"I-now\", his defense of presentism, his analysis of McTaggart's paradox as an instance of the problem of temporary intrinsics, his defense of a neo-Lorentzian interpretation of special relativity, and his formulation of a tensed possible worlds semantics.\n\nCraig presents a doctrine of divine eternity and God's relationship to time. Defending Leibniz's argument against God's enduring for infinite time prior to creating the universe, and appealing to the kalam cosmological argument, Craig says that God exists timelessly and temporally since the moment of creation. Craig says that cosmic time, which registers the age of the universe, is the measure of God's time. The universe is, Craig concludes, God's clock.\n\nCraig's two volumes \"The Historical Argument for the Resurrection of Jesus\" (1985) and \"Assessing the New Testament Evidence for the Historicity of the Resurrection of Jesus\" (3rd ed., 2002) are said by the Christian reviewers Gary Habermas and Christopher Price to be among the most thorough investigations of the event of Jesus' resurrection. In the former volume, Craig describes the history of the discussion, including David Hume's arguments against the identification of miracles. The latter volume is an exegetical study of the New Testament material pertinent to the resurrection.\n\nCraig summarizes the relevant evidence under three major heads:\n\n\nCraig's discussion of the evidence for each of these events includes a defense of the traditions of Jesus' burial by Joseph of Arimathea, a close exegesis of the Pauline doctrine of the resurrection body, and an investigation of pagan and Jewish notions of resurrection from the dead.\n\nCraig argues that the best explanation of these three events is that God raised Jesus from the dead. He rejects alternative theories such as Gerd Lüdemann's hallucination hypothesis as lacking explanatory scope, explanatory power, and sufficient historical knowledge to support the psychoanalysis Lüdemann performs. Craig's historical case for the resurrection employs standard historical practices for weighing historical hypotheses concluding that the resurrection is a better match to the available historical data. Specifically, Craig argues, that if one does not begin with the assumption that there is no God, there is a higher probability of the resurrection hypothesis than of its negation, so the resurrection hypothesis is improbable only if one begins with unsupported assumptions. Craig also notes that a miraculous explanation of the evidence is increased when one locates the resurrection of Jesus in the context of Jesus' ministry and personal statements. This context, Craig argues, provides the interpretive key to the meaning of Jesus' resurrection as the divine vindication of the allegedly blasphemous statements for which Jesus was tried and executed.\n\nCraig is currently focused on the challenge posed by platonism to divine aseity or self-existence. Craig rejects the view that God creates abstract objects and defends nominalistic perspectives on abstract objects. Stating that the Quine–Putnam indispensability thesis is the chief support of platonism, Craig criticizes Willard Van Orman Quine's naturalized epistemology and confirmational holism, and also rejects the metaontological criterion of ontological commitment.\n\nCraig favors a neutral logic, according to which the formal quantifiers of first-order logic, as well as the informal quantifiers of ordinary language, are not ontologically committing. He also advocates a deflationary theory of reference, according to which referring is a speech act rather than a word-world relation, so that singular terms may be used in true sentences without commitment to corresponding objects in the world. If one stipulates that first-order quantifiers are being used as devices of ontological commitment, then Craig adverts to fictionalism, in particular pretense theory, according to which statements about abstract objects are expressions of make-believe, imagined to be true, though literally false.\n\nCraig is a critic of metaphysical naturalism, New Atheism, and prosperity theology, as well as a defender of Reformed epistemology. He also states that being a confessing Christian is not compatible with practicing homosexuality. Craig maintains that the theory of evolution is compatible with Christianity. Craig has an agnostic position on the creation account. He is a fellow of the Discovery Institute's Center for Science and Culture and was a fellow of the International Society for Complexity, Information, and Design.\n\nAs a divine command theorist, Craig believes God had the moral right to command the killing of the Canaanites if they refused to leave their land, as depicted in the Book of Deuteronomy. This has led to some controversy. The prominent atheist Richard Dawkins has repeatedly refused to debate Craig, and has given what he calls Craig's defense of genocide as one of his reasons. Richard Dawkins himself came under attack for refusing to debate with William Lane Craig, with fellow atheist Daniel Came saying: He later devoted an article in the Guardian to his refusal, declaring it 'anti-intellectualist' and 'patronising', whilst slating the whole New Atheism movement for 'replacing one form of irrationality with another.' \n\nCraig has also proposed an Apollinarian Christology in which the divine logos stands in for the human soul of Christ and completes his human nature.\n\nAccording to Nathan Schneider, \"[many] professional philosophers know about him only vaguely, but in the field of philosophy of religion, [Craig's] books and articles are among the most cited\". Sam Harris has described Craig as \"the one Christian apologist who seems to have put the fear of God into many of my fellow atheists.\"\n\nSome scholars, such as Wes Morriston of the University of Colorado Boulder, have challenged some of Craig's views, such as the Kalam Cosmological argument, the foundation of God for morality, the alleged genocide of the Canaanites, as well as Craig's views on actual infinites, his fine-tuning argument, and his arguments for the resurrection of Jesus.\n\n\n\n"}
