{"id": "44044241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44044241", "title": "Alicia Florrick", "text": "Alicia Florrick\n\nAlicia Florrick (née Cavanaugh) is the lead character of CBS television series \"The Good Wife\" and is portrayed by Julianna Margulies, who has received positive reviews for her performance, winning two Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series.\n\nAlicia's storyline focuses on her romantic relationships, including the struggle between staying with or divorcing her unfaithful husband, Peter Florrick, or pursuing other relationships with other men, most notably Will Gardner. Other storylines include Alicia's transformation from \"the victim\" to \"the victimizer\", her dealing with the negative consequences of her actions, her devotion to her children among political turmoil, her obsession with power, and her growth in confidence.\n\nAlicia Cavanaugh was born in 1967 to Veronica Cavanaugh (Stockard Channing) and an unknown father, from whom Veronica separated from prior to her first appearance in the series in Season 4. She is the older sister of Owen Cavanaugh (Dallas Roberts), whom she loves very much, having grown close during their parents' separation, despite his tendency to meddle in her personal life. Her mother, now going by the name of Veronica Loy, makes her first appearance in \"A Defense of Marriage\" during Season 4, where it is revealed that Alicia had become estranged from her mother due to her various remarriages following her separation from Alicia's father as well as her infidelity. Veronica never afforded Alicia a motherly connection, and her father was never given the opportunity to, leading Alicia to become emotionally withdrawn, a tendency she has demonstrated frequently throughout the series. Ironically, Alicia has engaged in several of the same practices as her mother that she disapproves of, including infidelity, various relationships, and estrangement from her children.\n\nAlicia attended Georgetown University Law Center, where she graduated at the top of her class in 1992, despite her tendency to sleep during lectures she didn’t find interesting. While attending, she met and befriended Will Gardner (Josh Charles), who graduated alongside her. During their time in law school, Will and Alicia had an unofficial relationship, but never evolved into a proper relationship due to their \"bad timing\". Following her graduation from Georgetown, she became a junior litigate at mid-sized Chicago law firm Crozier, Abrams & Abbott, where she clocked the most billable hours of any associate. While working there, she meets Peter Florrick (Chris Noth), another lawyer with political ambitions, whom she marries a few years later and adopts the Florrick surname. Alicia doesn’t share Peter's political ambition, but accommodates his, resigning from Crozier, Abrams & Abbott to become a political \"good wife\" where she acts as a political instrument during campaigns and fundraisers. For this role, she receives the moniker of \"Saint Alicia\", a label she initially finds irritating, but later comes to think of as humorous. The two eventually move to Highland Parks, an upscale neighborhood in the Chicago suburbs where she and Peter raise Zachary \"Zach\" Florrick (Graham Phillips), and Grace Florrick (Makenzie Vega). She befriends her neighbors, but quickly becomes ostracized following a highly publicized sex scandal concerning her husband, the incumbent State's Attorney for Cook County, Illinois.\n\nMonths prior to the series, a political rival of Peter's, Glenn Childs (Titus Welliver), who had his sights set on Peter's job, leaks a sex tape of Peter and Amber Madison (Kim Shaw), a Chicago escort. The tape raises questions over whether Peter abused his office, with accusations of trading political favors for sexual services and material items being lobbied against him. The story first breaks on CNBC, and Alicia immediately shields her children from all news stations to shield them from the news. Peter resigns in order to avoid impeachment, but is ultimately convicted of charges of corruption, leading Alicia to believed that she, as well as her children, had become collateral damage in a political feud between Peter and Childs. Upon his resignation, Alicia slaps Peter for victimizing her and their children.\n\nHaving been out of the workforce for nearly a decade, and left with no income, Alicia assumes the role of breadwinner of the Florrick family. Her, Zach, and Grace move to a condo in inner Chicago while she searches for a new job, which she has trouble doing due to her family's damaged reputation. Eventually, she reconnects with Will, who is now a name partner at Chicago law firm Stern, Lockhart, & Gardner. He offers her a job at his firm, which she accepts, but soon comes to learn that the position offered to her was already filled by a younger, Harvard-educated lawyer, Cary Agos (Matt Czuchry). Being a friend of Will's, him and another name partner, Diane Lockhart (Christine Baranski), organize an arrangement by which the two will compete for the job and, in six months, one will be laid off.\n\nAlicia is designated the role by Diane of being \"the branch between the legal and political\", using her husband, who then resides in a county prison, to solicit information on cases she is working, much to the displeasure of judges, who view this practice as unethical. She is shown to be a competent lawyer, which allows her to keep her job at Lockhart/Gardner, resulting in a vindictive Cary being laid off. As a consequence, Alicia becomes the target of attacks by Cary, now working under Glenn at the State's Attorney's office.\n\nLockhart/Gardner enters financial trouble in the fourth season, finding itself hundreds of millions of dollars in debt. Will and Diane hire an accountant (Clark Hayden) to ensure the firm remains solvent, but he soon becomes overzealous in his efforts and over-invested in the firm's financial survival that he attempts to remove Will and Diane as name partner following their inability to repay debts to their shareholders in a timely manner. In an effort to quickly raise capital for their repayments, Will and Diane offer Alicia a partnership at the firm. Believing this to be a reward for her efforts and success, Alicia is overjoyed to become a partner, but becomes furious when she learned that this had only been an attempt to raise money, as a partnership had been offered to all fourth-year associates, including a newly rehired Cary.\n\nCary proposed that he and Alicia begin their own firm, and take the other fourth year associates, as well as one of the in-house investigators, with them. While initially rejecting this offer, she begins to grow sympathetic to this idea due to her contempt for other employees at Lockhart/Gardner. Beginning in season five, Alicia and Cary conspire to leave Lockhart/Gardner and poach several big-name clients for themselves. While downloading documents for ongoing cases they intend to continue litigating at Florrick/Agos, Diane discovers her plot, and informs Will, who confiscates her laptop and cellphone. Will promptly fires Alicia and Cary, as well as all others who have been attempting to poach Lockhart/Gardner clients.\n\nWill, betrayed due to the generosity he extended to Alicia, becomes reinvigorated, and initiates an expansion of Lockhart/Gardner into the east and west coast. However, Alicia utilizes Peter, who had been released from prison and subsequently elected governor of Illinois, to continue poaching clients. In one instance, Peter threatens to apply sales tax to the Internet and Internet-based companies in a subtle warning to ChumHum (a spoof of Google) that, should they not hire Florrick/Agos as their civil litigator firm, he will hurt their business. However, following Will's death, Diane and Alicia and Cary reunite to form Florrick/Agos & Lockhart.\n\nAlicia returns to work at Lockhart, Agos, & Lee following her withdrawal from the state's attorney race, and on her first day back, her former coworkers stall her in a room so that they may poach remaining clients that left the firm when Alicia resigned. When Alicia discovers this, she proposes starting a law firm with Finn Polmar (Matthew Goode), an unofficial significant other. These plans fall through when Finn leaves town, so Alicia, in search of employment, becomes a bond court lawyer. There, she meets and befriends Lucca Quinn (Cush Jumbo), a fellow bond court lawyer. The two begin their own law firm, but this is eventually dissolved when both of them are hired by Lockhart, Agos, & Lee. Diane, over the objections of Cary, makes Alicia a name partner in a bid to make a female-led firm. Cary, after a feud with Diane over Alicia's position, resigns to become a guest lecturer at a local college, sick of office politics he has been embroiled in over the past three years. Diane and Alicia eventually remove David Lee (Zach Grenier) as a name partner, and the two become the name partners of a female-led law firm.\n\nAlicia has made no appearances on \"The Good Fight\", but has been revealed to have resigned from Florrick & Lockhart within a year after the firm's readjustment.\n\nThe name of the show is a reference to Alicia's position within Peter's life: the political good wife. Her role is solely to bolster Peter's political career, a job she continues to do following Peter's release from prison. However, while she tolerates the political spotlight, she refuses to let her children be exploited so the same purposes, which often leads to conflict between her and Eli Gold (Alan Cumming), Peter's campaign manager, who sees Zach and Grace as effective political props.\n\nAt the end of season five, Eli, now Peter's chief of staff, proposes she run for state's attorney of Cook County, the office her husband previously occupied. While initially rejecting this offer, Alicia acquiesces due to her objections regarding the incumbent states attorney's abuse of power. The incumbent eventually departs from the race, and Alicia, instead, runs opposed to Frank Prady (David Hyde Pierce), a television legal analyst. Initially, Alicia and Prady form an alliance in which they both agree not to resort to personal attacks. However, both renege of their promises when Prady criticizes Alicia's ethics and accuses her of being open to political favors for her past clients and when Alicia released an ad that accused Prady of being a closeted-Republican, as well as insinuating that he may be gay. Alicia is also seen lying to influential Cook County figures in order to secure their endorsements. These lies included denying knowledge that Lemond Bishop (Mike Colter), infamous drug kingpin and serial killer, donated to her campaign, when she had already been made aware of the fact that Bishop had set up her PAC, as well as suggesting that Prady is gay to a homophobic Democratic donor in order to acquire funds.\n\nAlicia eventually wins the election, but is forced to resign by Mike Landau (Mike Pniewski), head of the Illinois Democratic Party. After reports of voter fraud surface, Landau reveals to Alicia that he rigged the voting machines in order to preserve the Democratic supermajority in the Illinois state legislature. However, in order to maintain the façade of a fair election, Landau forces Alicia to resign.\n\nIn the seventh season, Peter runs for president, in hopes of becoming Hillary Clinton’s vice president, in which Alicia continues to support him. However, Peter comes in third in the Iowa caucuses, diminishing any hope of him being tapped for the nomination, signaling Alicia’s exit from politics.\n\nThe seventh season follows Peter’s prosecution, once again, for corruption, accused of destroying evidence to secure funds from a wealthy Democratic donor, whose son was on trial, during his tenure as state’s attorney. Alicia agrees not to forestall their divorce until after the trial as to not exude the notion that he may be guilty. However, Alicia intends to pursue a divorce if Peter is acquitted, but any such separation would be jeopardized should Peter be convicted.\n\nDesperate to acquit Peter so she may divorce him in favor of pursuing her relationship with Jason Crouse (Jeffrey Dean Morgan), Alicia, Diane, and Lucca pursue the strategy of proving Peter had no reason to discard the evidence because the donor’s son wasn’t guilty. In doing so, Alicia brings Diane’s husband, Kurt McVeigh (Gary Cole), a ballistics expert, to testify that the bullets likely didn’t come from the donor’s son’s gun. This testimony is immediately undercut by another ballistics expert named Holly. Alicia, seeking to refute this testimony, calls Kurt back to the stand, and pressures him to contradict this testimony. But when Kurt refuses, Lucca accuses (at Alicia's request) him of protecting Holly due to an affair they had while Kurt was married to Diane.\n\nDiane, hurt and betrayed, blames Alicia for destroying her marriage. After attending Peter’s resignation, she confronts Alicia and, without saying anything, slaps Alicia and walks away. This scene was significant to writer Robert and Michelle King, who saw this as symbolizing Alicia’s transition from being the \"victimized\", having her life ruined by her unfaithful and corrupt husband, to the \"victimizer\" having destroyed Kurt and Diane's marriage so she may pursue her own relationship. In effect, by the finale, Alicia had become Peter.\n\nThe characterization of Alicia has received critical acclaim, with many favorable comparisons being drawn between her, \"The Sopranos\" Tony Soprano, \"Breaking Bad\"s Walter White, and \"Mad Men\"s Don Draper. Writing for \"Vanity Fair\", Joanna Robinson writes, \"While Alicia took her final bow in an era when the ice zombies on \"Game of Thrones\" and the sweaty zombies on \"The Walking Dead\" rule pop-culture, Alicia Florrick belongs to the time of Walter White, Don Draper, and the other stars of the golden age of the TV antihero.\" However, Robinson highlights the difference between Alicia and other anti-heroes, writing \"Alicia ends up more callous than either Walter White (who at least went out apologizing to Skyler and saving Pinkman) or Don Draper (who, hey, bought the world a Coke!). Alicia throws Diane right under the bus in a way that the Kings describe as 'collateral damage.' The most charitable interpretation we can come ups with is that at least Alicia was partially thinking of Grace as she did it\".\n\nMargulies has received critical acclaim for her performance as Alicia Florrick. In his initial review of the series, Rob Owen of \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" praised Margulies' performance, calling the show \"a terrific showcase for actress Julianna Margulies, who elevates the already-good material with her perceptive, open performance.\"\n\nDaniel Fienberg of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" also praised Margulies' performance, writing that \"the excellence of Margulies' performance has rested in her refusal to make Alicia easy to understand, in keeping up a complicated wall and choosing those few moments in which to expose emotional cracks.\" And later compared her performance to those of James Gandolfini on \"The Sopranos\" or Bryan Cranston on \"Breaking Bad\", writing that \"Margulies' performance sometimes put Alicia in that Tony Soprano/Walter White/Don Draper category of cable anti-heroes.\"\n\nFor her performance, Margulies won a Critics' Choice Television Award, a Golden Globe Award, two Primetime Emmy Awards, two Screen Actors Guild Awards, and a Television Critics Association Award.\n"}
{"id": "2489163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2489163", "title": "Apadāna", "text": "Apadāna\n\nThe Apadāna is a collection of biographical stories found in the Khuddaka Nikaya of the Pāli Canon, the scriptures of Theravada Buddhism. G.P. Malalasekera describes it as 'a Buddhist Vitae Sanctorum' of Buddhist monks and nuns who lived during the lifetime of the Buddha.\n\nIt is thought to be one of the latest additions to the canon. The exact meaning of the title \"Apadāna\" is not known. Perhaps it means 'life history' or 'legend'. In Pāli it has the additional, older meaning of advice or moral instruction. Dr Sally Cutler has suggested the word originally meant 'reapings', i.e. of the results of karma. The title is sometimes translated as the \"Biographical Stories\", or simply as \"The Stories\".\n\nThe \"Apadāna\" consists of about 600 poems (between 589 and 603 in different editions), mostly biographical stories of senior Buddhist monks and nuns, but also of Buddhas and solitary Buddhas. Many of the stories of monks and nuns are expansions of, or otherwise related to, verses presented in the Theragatha and Therigatha as having been spoken by senior members of the early Sangha. The Apadāna is a parallel to the Jātaka commentary, in which the Buddha recounts his previous lives.\n\nMost Apadāna stories follow a fairly predictable outline, in which the speaker recounts their meritorious deeds in previous births as ethical individuals in a variety of different circumstances in different parts of India, before finally recounting the story of their present birth and how they came to be disciples of the Buddha. These stories of the previous lives of famous and not so famous monks and nuns may have been meant to provide moral examples to lay followers who wished to live as Buddhists but were unable or unwilling to undertake ordination as bhikkhus or bhikkhunis.\n\nThe text is divided into four sections:\n\n\nA complete translation of the \"Apadāna\" into English is yet to be made. The following parts have been translated into English.\n\n\nItalian translations:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1732721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1732721", "title": "Arthur Peacocke", "text": "Arthur Peacocke\n\nArthur Robert Peacocke (29 November 1924 – 21 October 2006) was a British Anglican theologian and biochemist.\n\nArthur Robert Peacocke was born at Watford on 29 November 1924. He was educated at Watford Grammar School for Boys, Exeter College, Oxford (BA 1945, MA 1948, BSc 1947, DPhil 1948, DSc 1962, DD 1982), and the University of Birmingham (DipTh 1960, BD 1971).\n\nHe taught at the University of Birmingham from 1948 until 1959 when he was appointed University Lecturer in Biochemistry in the University of Oxford and Fellow and Tutor of St Peter's College. In 1960 he was licensed as a Lay Reader for the Diocese of Oxford and he held this position until 1971, when he was ordained deacon and priest, unusually, both in the same year.\n\nFrom 1973 until 1984 he was Dean, Fellow, and Tutor and Director of Studies in Theology of Clare College, Cambridge, becoming a Doctor of Science (ScD) by incorporation of the University of Cambridge.\n\nIn 1984 he spent one year as Professor of Judeo-Christian Studies at Tulane University. He returned to Oxford the following year, becoming Director of the Ian Ramsey Centre, 1988 and again from 1995 until 1999. He was appointed Honorary Chaplain of Christ Church, Oxford in 1988 and Honorary Canon in 1994. Apart from one year during which he was Royden B. Davis Professor of Interdisciplinary Studies at Georgetown University (1994), he spent the rest of his life in Oxford, living in St John Street, just across the road from another eminent theologian, Henry Chadwick.\n\nHe had been Select Preacher before the University of Oxford in 1973 and 1975 and was Bampton Lecturer in 1978. He was Hulsean Preacher at Cambridge in 1976 and Gifford Lecturer at St Andrew's in 1993.\n\nAmong Peacocke's numerous subsidiary appointments he was the President of the Science and Religion Forum from 1995 until his death, having previous been chairman (1972–78) and Vice-President (1978–92). He was an Academic Fellow of the Institute on Religion in an Age of Science in 1986. He was Warden of the Society of Ordained Scientists 1987–92 and Warden Emeritus from 1992 until his death. He was also a sometime Vice-President of the Modern Church People's Union and member of the council of the European Society for the Study of Science and Theology (Esssat).\n\nPeacocke was awarded the Lecomte du Noüy Prize in 1983. He received honorary doctorates from DePauw University (DSc 1983) and Georgetown University (DLittHum 1991). He was appointed Member of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire by HM The Queen in 1993. In 2001 he was awarded the Templeton Prize.\n\nArthur Peacocke married Rosemary Mann on 7 August 1948. They had a daughter, Jane (born 1953), and a son who is the distinguished philosopher Christopher Peacocke. They also have five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.\n\nPeacocke self-identified as a panentheist, which he was careful to distinguish from being a pantheist. He is perhaps best known for his attempts to argue rigorously that evolution and Christianity need not be at odds (see \"Creation-evolution controversy\"). He may be the most well-known theological advocate of theistic evolution as author of the essay \"Evolution: The Disguised Friend of Faith?\".\n\nArthur Peacocke describes a position which is referred to elsewhere as \"front-loading\", after the fact that it suggests that evolution is entirely consistent with an all-knowing, all-powerful God who exists throughout time, sets initial conditions and natural laws, and knows what the result will be. An implication of Peacocke's particular stance is that all scientific analyses of physical processes reveal God's actions. All scientific propositions are thus necessarily coherent with religious ones.\n\nAccording to Peacocke, Darwinism is not an enemy to religion, but a friend (thus the title of his piece, \"The Disguised Friend\"). Peacocke offers five basic arguments in support of his position outlined below.\n\nThe process-as-immanence argument is meant to deal with Phillip Johnson's contention that naturalism reduces God to a distant entity. According to Peacocke, God continuously creates the world and sustains it in its general order and structure; He makes things make themselves. Biological evolution is an example of this and, according to Peacocke, should be taken as a reminder of God's immanence. It shows us that \"God is the Immanent Creator \"creating in and through the processes of natural order\"\". Evolution is the continuous action of God in the world. All \"the processes revealed by the sciences, especially evolutionary biology, are in themselves God-acting-as-Creator\".\n\nThe chance-optimizing-initial-conditions argument runs as follows: the role of chance in biological evolution can be reconciled with a purposive creator because \"there is a creative interplay of 'chance' and law apparent in the evolution of living matter by natural selection.\" There is no metaphysical implication of the physical fact of \"chance\"; randomness in mutation of DNA \"does not, in itself, preclude these events from displaying regular trends of manifesting inbuilt propensities at the higher levels of organisms, populations and eco-systems.\" Chance is to be seen as \"eliciting the potentialities that the physical cosmos possessed ab initio.\"\n\nThe random-process-of-evolution-as-purposive argument is perhaps best considered an adjunct to the process-as-immanence argument, and a direct response to Johnson's continued references to evolution as \"purposeless.\" Peacocke suggests\n\nThe natural-evil-as-necessity argument is meant to be a response to the classic philosophical argument of the Problem of Evil, which contends that an all-powerful, all-knowing and beneficent God cannot exist as such because natural evil (mudslides which crush the legs of innocent children, for instance) occurs. Peacocke contends that the capacities necessary for consciousness and thus a relationship with God also enable their possessors to experience pain, as necessary for identifying injury and disease. Preventing the experience of pain would prevent the possibility of consciousness. Peacocke also takes an eastern argument for natural evil of that which made must be unmade for a new making to occur; there is no creation without destruction. To Peacocke, it is necessary that organisms go out of existence for others to come into it. Thus, pain, suffering and death are necessary evils in a universe which will result in beings capable of having a relationship with God. God is said to suffer with His creation because He loves creation, conforming the deity to be consistent with the Christian God.\n\nThe Jesus-as-pinnacle-of-human-evolution argument proposed by Peacocke is that Jesus Christ is\nthe actualisation of [evolutionary] potentiality can properly be regarded as the consummation of the purposes of God already incompletely manifested in evolving humanity…. The paradigm of what God intends for all human beings, now revealed as having the potentiality of responding to, of being open to, of becoming united with, God.\nSimilar propositions had previously been put by writers such as C. S. Lewis (in \"Mere Christianity\") and Teilhard de Chardin.\n\nIn the introduction to \"The Sciences and Theology in the Twentieth Century\", Peacocke lists a set of eight relationships that could fall upon a two-dimensional grid. This list is in part a survey of deliberations that occurred at the World Council of Churches Conference on \"Faith, Science and the Future\", Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1979.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "399804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=399804", "title": "Avram Davidson", "text": "Avram Davidson\n\nAvram Davidson (April 23, 1923 – May 8, 1993) was an American writer of fantasy fiction, science fiction, and crime fiction, as well as the author of many stories that do not fit into a genre niche. He won a Hugo Award and three World Fantasy Awards in the science fiction and fantasy genre, a World Fantasy Life Achievement award, and an \"Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine\" short story award and an Edgar Award in the mystery genre. Davidson edited \"The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction\" from 1962 to 1964. His last novel \"\" was completed by Grania Davis and was a Nebula Award finalist in 1998. \"The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction\" says \"he is perhaps sf's most explicitly literary author\".\n\nDavidson wrote many stories for fiction magazines beginning in the 1950s, after publishing his first fiction in \"Commentary\" and other Jewish intellectual magazines.\n\nDavidson was active in science fiction fandom from his teens. His best-known works are his novels about Vergil Magus, the magician that medieval legend made out of the Roman poet Virgil; the Peregrine novels, a comic view of Europe shortly after the fall of Rome; the Jack Limekiller stories, about a Canadian living in an imaginary Central American country modelled after Belize during the 1960s; and the stories of Dr. Eszterhazy, a sort of even more erudite Sherlock Holmesian figure living in the mythical Scythia-Pannonia-Transbalkania, the waning fourth-largest empire in Europe.\n\nLesser known and uncollected during his lifetime are his mystery stories, which were assembled after his death as \"The Investigations of Avram Davidson\". These mystery stories frequently have a historical setting, and are intricately plotted. In addition, Davidson ghosted two Ellery Queen mysteries, \"And on the Eighth Day\" and \"The Fourth Side of the Triangle,\" and a true crime collection, \"Crimes and Chaos.\"\n\nOther noteworthy works are his collaborations. In \"Joyleg, A Folly\", written in collaboration with Ward Moore, a veteran of the American Revolutionary War (and of the Whiskey Rebellion) is found alive and very well in the Tennessee backwoods, having survived over the centuries by daily soaks in whisky of his own making to hilariously face the world of the 1960s. In \"Marco Polo and the Sleeping Beauty,\" co-written with Grania Davis, the background of Marco Polo's travels in the Mongol Empire is borrowed for an original story. After Davidson's death, Grania Davis also finished \"The Boss in the Wall\", a claustrophobic horror novel that bears little resemblance to the work of any other writer.\n\nDavidson also wrote dozens of short stories that defy classification, and the \"Adventures in Unhistory\" essays, which delve into puzzles such as the identity of Prester John and suggest solutions to them. His earlier historical essays were scrupulously researched, even when published by magazines just as happy to offer fiction as fact. Later essays were handicapped by a lack of resources in the libraries of the small towns where Davidson lived in the pre-Internet era, but are enlivened by the style and bold speculation.\n\nDavidson's work is marked by a strong interest in history, with his plots often turning on what at first might seem like minor events. His characterization is also unusually in-depth for fantasy, and is often enriched by his ear for unusual accents.\n\nDavidson's most obvious characteristics are his plotting and style. Very little may \"happen\" in a Davidson story, but he described it in detail. Hidden among the detail are facts or omissions that later become important to the outcome of the story. Especially in his later works, Davidson included elements that beginning writers are told to avoid, such as page-long sentences with half a dozen colons and semi-colons, or an apparently irrelevant digression in the opening pages of a story. He expects much from his readers, but delivers much to them.\n\nDavidson was born in 1923 in Yonkers, New York to Jewish parents. He served as a Navy hospital corpsman (medic) with the Marine Corps in the Pacific during World War II, and began his writing career as a Talmudic scholar around 1950. As reported at the time in the February 20, 1962 Yonkers daily, the Herald Statesman, Rabbi Arnold Weinberger officiated at his wedding to Miss Grania Kalman, which took place at the home of Damon Knight.\n\nThis made his conversion to Tenrikyo in the 1970s unexpected. Although he had a reputation for being quick to anger, Davidson was known among his friends for his generosity. His peripatetic life and career may have been due to a disinclination to finish what he began. His reputation among science fiction and fantasy readers peaked in the 1960s, after which he had a coterie of fans who (as with R. A. Lafferty), kept his reputation alive, especially after his death.\n\nHe was a member of the Swordsmen and Sorcerers' Guild of America (SAGA), a loose-knit group of Heroic Fantasy authors founded in the 1960s, some of whose works were anthologized in Lin Carter's \"Flashing Swords!\" anthologies.\n\nWhile editing \"The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction\" he lived in Mexico, and later in British Honduras (now renamed Belize). He lived in a rural district of Novato, in northern Marin County, California, in 1970, but later moved closer to San Francisco. He lived in a small house in Sausalito, at the southern end of Marin County next to San Francisco in 1971 and 1972, and it was there fans and friends were welcomed. He worked for a short time in the late 1970s as a creative writing instructor at the University of Texas at El Paso. In his later years, he lived in Washington state, including a brief stay in the Veterans' Home in Bremerton. He died in his tiny apartment in Bremerton on May 8, 1993, aged 70. A memorial service was held in Gasworks Park in Seattle.\n\nHe was survived by his son Ethan and his ex-wife Grania Davis, who continued to edit and release his unpublished works until her own death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39301396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39301396", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Burundi", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Burundi\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Burundi begins after 1916 with a mention by `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, that Bahá'ís should take the religion to the regions of Africa. The first specific mention of Burundi (Urundi) was in May 1953 suggesting the expanding community of the Bahá'í Faith in Uganda look at sending pioneers to neighboring areas like Burundi(Urundi) as part of a specific plan of action. The first settlers of the religion arrived in the region by June. By 1963 there were three Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies in Burundi-Ruanda. Through succeeding organizations of the countries in the region, the National Spiritual Assembly of Burundi was first formed in 1969 but was successively dissolved and reformed a number of times - most recently reforming in 2011. Even though the religion was banned for a time, and the country torn by wars, the religion grew so that in 2005 the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated just about 6,800 Bahá'ís in Burundi.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. Three of the tablets mentioned taking the Bahá'í Faith to Africa, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919 — after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu. These tablets were translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on December 12, 1919. One tablet says in part:\n\nThe intention of the teacher must be pure, his heart independent, his spirit attracted, his thought at peace, his resolution firm, his magnanimity exalted and in the love of God a shining torch.… Consequently, a number of souls may arise … and hasten to all parts of the world, especially from America to Europe, Africa, Asia ….\n(and also offers a prayer that begins)<br>\nO God, my God! Thou seest how black darkness is enshrouding all regions, how all countries are burning with the flame of dissension, and the fire of war and carnage is blazing throughout the East and the West. Blood is flowing, corpses bestrew the ground, and severed heads are fallen on the dust of the battlefield.\nO Lord! Have pity…\n\nThe first specific mention of \"Urundi\" was from a telegram of Shoghi Effendi in May 1953, while he was head of the religion, in which he is suggesting the expanding community of the Bahá'í Faith in Uganda and other areas look at sending pioneers to neighboring areas like Burundi during the campaign called the Ten Year Crusade during the period when Burundi was part of Ruanda-Urundi.\n\nThe first Bahá'í to travel through the region may have been Marthe Molitor c. 1947 after joining the religion in Belgium. The first settlers of the religion arrived in the region by June when Mary and Reginald (Rex) Collison of the United States and Dunduzu Chisiza, a young Bahá'í from Malawi (then Nyasaland), arrived in Ruanda-Urundi thus earning the title Knights of Bahá'u'lláh. The first local Bahá'í in Rwanda was Selemani Bin Kimbulu. The Collison's had moved from Uganda and struggled with the limitation of being English-speakers in a country dominated by French. By 1956–57 there were some 30 Bahá'ís both native and pioneering noted in the region and the area was organized under a regional national assembly of the Bahá’ís of Central and East Africa to which delegates were sent from Burundi. The first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is of Usumbura (later renamed Bujumbura), formed on April 21, 1957. Native Bahá'ís, about 20 in number, maintained the assembly status through 1959 and were aided then to acquire a registration with local government and a local center for community activities. Molisso Michel traveled through the region from Congo and was asked to speak to a significant audience in addition to a small tour of villages. In 1960 there are notes of many conversions.\n\nWide-scale growth in the religion across Sub-Saharan Africa was observed to begin in the 1950s and extend in the 1960s. In Burundi-Ruanda by 1963 there were three Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies. In these early days converts were among the nearby Congolese who had become Bahá'ís in Rwanda and Burundi who moved back to their home provinces. In 1966, Dr. and Mrs. Ta'eed of Iran arrived, along with Jackton Kayemba of Kenya, though Kayemba returned to Kenya in 1971.\n\nHand of the Cause, the title of one serving in a position of international distinction in the religion, Enoch Olinga, represented the Universal House of Justice for the 1969 election of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Burundi and Rwanda with its seat in Bujumbura. With the independence of Burundi and Rwanda, the national assembly was reformed in 1972 for each country. Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum visited Burundi around 1972–3.\n\nHowever, as part of a sweep across several Sub-Saharan countries, the Bahá'í Faith was banned in the 1970s in several countries: Burundi, 1974; Mali 1976; Uganda 1977; Congo, 1978; Niger, 1978.\n\n\"This was principally the result of a campaign by a number of Arab countries. Since these countries were also by this time providers of development aid, this overt attack on the Baha'is was supported by covert moves such as linking the aid money to a particular country to the action that it took against the Baha'is. This was partially successful and a number of countries did ban the Baha'is for a time. However, the Baha'is were able to demonstrate to these governments that they were not agents of Zionism nor anti-Islamic….\" See also Allegations of Bahá'í involvement with other powers\n\nWhile the national organization of the Bahá'ís was disbanded local and regional administration continued. In 1980 the Bahá'í group of Gitega held a meeting with some 300 college students on the religion. A Youth institute, opportunities for intensive study of the Bahá'í Faith ranging from one day to several weeks, was held in nearby Zambia, which included Burundi youth completed a four-week course in 1994.\n\nAmerican Cynthia Shepard Perry became a Bahá'í about 1969. She eventually worked as an African American in foreign policy as she was the United States Ambassador to Burundi (1989–1993) during the first Bush administration but she did not participate in formal Bahá'í activities due to her responsibilities.\n\nThe national organization later reformed in combination with Rwanda. In the face of the rising tensions of the Rwandan Civil War the national assembly of Burundi lapsed in 1994 followed by the Rwandan side in 1996. Along the way, regional Bahá'í centers in Bubanza, Carama, and Cibitoke were destroyed. However, the Burundi assembly was reformed in 2011 though its national presence was noted in 2003 and it had a national center in Nyakabiga, Bujumbura by 2004.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. Since the genocide and war, the religion has been involved in resolving tribal tensions based on its teachings of principle of the oneness of humanity. However conditions in Burundi and neighboring areas were extremely violent - there was the Burundian Genocide, and the Burundian Civil War among others. Despite this and the relatively small community a few activities were undertaken. 149 Bahá’í youth from Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda, and Uganda gathered at the national center in Burundi between 17–21 August 2006 focusing on the potential of youth to contribute to the positive transformation of their societies along these lines. A government minister addressed the attendees and two radio journalists also did interviews. Regional conferences around the world were called for by the Universal House of Justice 20 October 2008 to celebrate recent achievements in grassroots community-building and to plan their next steps in organizing in their home areas. The closest one to Burundi was in Uvira and some 13 people were able to make it from Burundi despite persistent regional violence.\n\nPascal Akimana grew up in Burundi under extreme violent conditions, both within his family and out. He provides an historical perspective on the situation both in Burundi and Rwanda in a podcast interview done in 2011.\n\nThe Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) 2005 estimates just about 6,800 Bahá'ís in Burundi.\n\n"}
{"id": "23278153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23278153", "title": "Bukit Kiara Muslim Cemetery", "text": "Bukit Kiara Muslim Cemetery\n\nThe Bukit Kiara Muslim Cemetery is a cemetery in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. It is located at Damansara near Taman Tun Dr Ismail. This cemetery can be seen from the Damansara Link of the Sprint Expressway. It is the final resting place of many prominent Malay personalities.\n\nThe Bukit Kiara Muslim Cemetery was opened on 1985. There are four phases at this cemetery. Phase 1 was opened on 1985 and Phase 2 opened on 2008. Phase 3 and 4 remained for future uses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40227221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40227221", "title": "Daksha yajna", "text": "Daksha yajna\n\nIn Hindu mythology, Daksha-Yajna(m) (Daksha-Yagna(m)) or Daksha-Yaga is an important event, which is narrated in various Hindu scriptures. It refers to a yajna (sacrifice) organized by Daksha, where his daughter Sati immolated herself. The wrath of god Shiva, Sati's husband, thereafter destroyed the sacrifice. The tale is also called Daksha-Yajna-Nasha (\"destruction of Daksha's sacrifice). The story forms the basis of the establishment of the Shakti Peethas, temples of the Hindu Divine Mother. It is also becomes a prelude to the story of Parvati, Sati's reincarnation who later marries Shiva.\n\nThe mythology is mainly told in the \"Vayu Purana\". It is also mentioned in the \"Kasi Kanda\" of the \"Skanda Purana\", the \"Kurma Purana\", \"Harivamsa Purana\" and \"Padma Purana\". \"Linga Purana\", \"Shiva Purana\", and \"Matsya Purana\" also detail the incident.\n\nDaksha was one of the Prajapati, son of Brahma, and among his foremost creations. The name \"Daksha\" means \"skilled one\". Daksha had two wives: Prasoothi and Panchajani (Virini). Sati (also known as ‘‘Uma’’) was his youngest daughter; born from Prasoothi (the daughter of the Prajapati Manu), she was the pet child of Daksha and he always carried her with him. Sati (meaning truth) is also called Dakshayani as she followed Daksha’s path; this is derived from the Sanskrit words \"daksha\" and \"ayana\" (walk or path).\n\nSati, the youngest daughter of Daksha, was deeply in love with the god Shiva and wished to become his wife. Her worship and devotion of Shiva strengthened her immense desire to become his wife. However, Daksha did not like his daughter’s yearning for Shiva, mainly because he was a Prajapati and the son of the god Brahma; his daughter Sati was a royal princess. They were wealthy nobility and their imperial royal lifestyle was entirely different from that of Shiva. As an emperor, Daksha wanted to increase his influence and power by making marriage alliances with powerful empires and influential sages and gods.\n\nShiva on the other hand led a very modest life. He lived among the downtrodden, wore a tiger skin, smeared ashes on his body, had thick locks of matted hair, and begged with a skull as bowl. His abode was Mount Kailash in the Himalayas. He embraced all kinds of living beings and did not make any distinction between good souls and bad souls. The Bhutaganas, his followers, consisted of all kinds of ghosts, demons, ghouls and goblins. He wandered though garden and graveyard alike. As a consequence, Daksha had aversion towards Shiva being his daughter’s companion. However unlike Daksha, Sati loved Shiva as she had the revelation that Shiva was the Supreme God.\n\nSati won Shiva as her husband by undergoing severe austerities (tapas). Despite Daksha's disappointment, Sati married Shiva.\n\nOnce Brahma conducted a huge yajna (sacrifice), where all the Prajapatis, gods and kings of the world were invited. Shiva and Sati were also called on to participate in the yajna. All of them came for the yajna and sat in the ceremonial place. Daksha came last. When he arrived, everyone in the yajna, with the exception of Brahma, Shiva and Sati, stood up showing reverence for him. Brahma being Daksha's father and Shiva being Daksha's son-in-law were considered superior in stature to Daksha. Daksha misunderstood Shiva’s gesture and considered Shiva's gesture as an insult. Daksha vowed to take revenge on the insult in the same manner.\n\nDaksha’s grudge towards Shiva grew after Brahma's yajna. With the prime motive of insulting Shiva, Daksha initiated a great yajna, similar to that of Brahma. The yajna was to be presided over by the sage Bhrigu. He invited all the gods, Prajapatis and kings to attend the yajna and intentionally avoided inviting Shiva and Sati.\n\nThe Kurma Purana discusses the dialogues between the sage Dadhichi and Daksha. After the sacrifice and hymns where offered to the twelve Aditya gods; Dadhichi noticed that there was no sacrificial portion (\"Havvis\") allotted to Shiva and his wife, and no vedic hymns were used in the yajna addressing Shiva which were part of Vedic hymns. He warned Daksha that he should not alter the Holy Vedas for personal reasons; the priests and sages supported this. Daksha replied to Dadhichi that he would not do so and insulted Shiva. Dadhichi left the yajna because of this argument.\n\nSati came to know about the grand yajna organized by her father and asked Shiva to attend the yajna. Shiva refused her request, saying that it was unappropriate to attend a function without being invited. He reminded her that she was now his wife more than Daksha’s daughter and, after marriage, is a member of Shiva’s family rather than Daksha’s. The feeling of her bond to her parents overpowered the social etiquette she had to follow. She even had a notion that there was no need to have received an invitation in order to attend as she was Daksha’s favourite daughter and no formality existed between them. She constantly pleaded and urged Shiva to let her attend the ceremony, and became adamant in her demands without listening to the reasons Shiva provided for not attending the function. He allowed Sati to go to her parents' home, along with his followers including Nandi, and attend the ceremony, but refused to accompany with her.\n\nUpon arriving, Sati tried to meet her parents and sisters; Daksha was arrogant and avoided interacting with Sati. He repeatedly snubbed her in front of all the dignitaries but Sati maintained her composure. Because of Sati’s persistence in trying to meet him, Daksha reacted vehemently, insulting her in front of all the other guests at the ceremony to which she had not been invited. He called Shiva an atheist and cremation ground dweller. As planned, he took advantage of the situation and continued shouting repugnant words against Shiva. Sati felt deep remorse for not listening to her beloved husband. Daksha’s disdain towards her, and especially her husband Shiva, in front of all the guests was growing each moment she stood there. The shameless insult and humiliation of her and her beloved, eventually became too much to bear.\n\nShe cursed Daksha for acting so atrociously toward her and Shiva, and reminded him that his haughty behavior had blinded his intellect. She cursed him and warned that the wrath of Shiva would destroy him and his empire. Unable to bear further humiliation, Sati committed suicide by jumping into the sacrificial fire. The onlookers tried to save her but it was too late. They were only able to retrieve the half burnt body of Sati. Daksha's pride in being a Prajapati and his prejudice against his son-in-law created a mass hatred within himself, which resulted in the death of his daughter.\n\nThe Nandi and the accompanying Bhootaganas left the yajna place after the incident. Nandi cursed the participants and Bhrigu reacted by cursing the Bhootaganas back.\n\nShiva was deeply pained upon hearing of his wife's death. His grief grew into a terrible anger when he realized how Daksha had viciously plotted a treachery against him; but it was his innocent wife who fell into the trap instead of him. Shiva learned of Daksha’s callous behavior towards Sati. Shiva's rage became so intense that he plucked a lock of hair from his head and smashed it on the ground, breaking it into two with his leg. Armed and frightening, two fearsome beings Virabhadra and Bhadrakali (Rudrakali) emerged. Shiva ordered them to kill Daksha and destroy the yajna.\n\nThe ferocious Virabhadra and Bhadrakali, along with the Bhutaganas, reached the yajna spot. The invitees renounced the yajna and started running away from the turmoil. Sage Bhrigu created an army with his divine penance powers to resist Shiva’s attack and protect the yajna. Bhrigu’s army was demolished and the entire premises were ravaged. All those who participated, even the other Prajapatis and the gods, were mercilessly beaten, wounded or even slaughtered. The \"Vayu Purana\" mentions the attack of Bhutaganas: the nose of some goddesses were cut, Yama's staff bone was broken, Mitra's eyes were pulled out, Indra was trampled by Virabhadra and Bhutaganas, Pushan's teeth were knocked out, Chandra was beaten heavily, all of the Prajapatis' were beaten, the hands of Vahini were cut off, and Bhrigu's beard was cut off.\n\nDaksha was caught and decapitated, the attack culminated when the Bhutaganas started plucking out Bhrigu’s white beard as a victory souvenir. The \"Vayu Purana\" do not mention the decapitation of Daksha, instead it says Yagnja, the personification of yajna took the form of an antelope and jumped towards the sky. Virabhadra captured it and decapitated Yagnja. Daksha begs mercy from the Parabrahman (the Supreme Almighty who is formless), who rose from the yajna fire and forgives Daksha. The Parabharman informs Daksha that Shiva is in fact a manifestation of Parabrahman. Daksha then becomes a great devotee of Shiva. The \"Linga Purana\" and \"Bhagavatha Purana\" mention the decapitation of Daksha.\n\nCertain other puranas like \"Harivamsa\", \"Kurma\", and \"Skanda\" narrate the story from the perspective of the Vishnava-Shaiva community feud prevalent in ancient times. In these puranas, there are fights between Vishnu and Shiva or Virabhadra, with various victors throughout. The story of Daksha Yaga in \"Vaishnava\" and \"Shaiva\" puranas end with the surrendering of Daksha to the Parabrahman or with the destruction of yajna and decapitation of Daksha.\n\nAs the obstruction of the yajna will create havoc and severe ill effects on the nature, Brahma and the god Vishnu went to the grief-stricken Shiva. They comforted and showed their sympathy towards Shiva. They requested him to come to the yajna location and pacify the bhutaganas and allow the yaga to be completed; Shiva agreed. Shiva found the burnt body of Sati. Shiva gave permission to continue yajna. Daksha was absolved by Shiva and the head of a ram (Male goat) meant for yajna was fixed on the decapitated body of Daksha and gave his life back. The yajna was completed successfully.\n\nThe later story is an epilogue to the story of Daksha yajna mentioned in Shakta Puranas like \"Devi Bhagavata Purana\", \"Kalika Purana\" and the folklores of various regions. Shiva was so distressed and could not part from his beloved wife. He took the corpse of Sati and wandered around the universe. To reduce Shiva's grief, Vishnu cuts Sati's corpse as per Vaishnava Puranas; whose parts fell on the places Shiva wandered. The Shaiva version says that her body disintegrated on its own and the parts fell while Shiva was carrying Sati's corpse in various places. These places commemorating each body part came to be known as the Shakti peethas. There are 51 Shakti peethas, representing the 51 letters of Sanskrit. Some of the puranas which came in later ages gave more importance to their supreme deity (depending on Vaishnava, Shaiva, and Shakta sects) in their literature.\n\nShiva went to isolation and solitude for ages and wandered all around until Sati reincarnated as Parvati, the daughter of the King Himavana. Like Sati, Parvati took severe austerities and gave away all her royal privileges and went to forest. Shiva tested her affection and devotion in disguise. He eventually realized Parvati is Sati herself. Shiva later on married Parvati.\n\nThe mythology of Daksha Yaga is considered to be the story of origin of Shakti Peethas. Shakti Peethas are sacred abodes of Devi. These shrines are located all over South Asia. Most of the temples are located in India and Bangladesh; there are a few shrines in Pakistan, Nepal and Sri Lanka. There are 51 Shakti Peethas as per the puranas denoting the 51 Sanskrit alphabets. However 52, and 108 are also believed to exist. Shakti Peethas are the revered temples of the Shakta (Shaktism) sect of Hinduism. It is said that the body part of the corpse of Sati Devi fell in these places and the shrines are mostly now associated with the name of the body part. Out of the 51 Shakti peethas, 18 are said to be Maha Shakti peethas. They are: Sharada Peetham (Saraswati devi), Varanasi Peetham (Vishalakshi devi), Gaya Peetham (Sarvamangala devi), Jwalamukhi Peetham (Vaishnavi devi), Prayaga Peetham (Madhaveswari devi), Kamarupa Peetham (Kamakhyadevi), Draksharama Peetham (Manikyamba devi), Oddyana Peetha (Girija Viraja devi), Pushkarini Peetham (Puruhutika devi), Ujjaini Peetham (Mahakali devi), Ekaveera Peetham (Renuka Devi), Shri Peetham (Mahalakshmi devi), Shrishaila Peetham (Bhramaramba devi), Yogini Peetham (Yogaamba(Jogulamba) devi), Krounja Peetham (Chamundeshwari devi), Pradyumna Peetham (Shrinkala devi), Kanchi Kamakodi Peetham (Kamakshi devi), and Lanka Peetham (Shankari devi).\n\nVarious sites like Kottiyoor, Kerala; the Aami Mandir of Chhapra in Bihar the Daksheswara Mahadev Temple of Kankhal in Uttarakhand, and Draksharama, in Andhra Pradesh claim to be the location of Daksha yajna and the self-immolation of Sati.\n\nKottiyoor Vysakha Mahotsavam, a 27‑day yagnja ceremony, conducted in the serene hilly jungle location of Kottiyoor yearly commemorating the Daksha Yaga. The pooja and rituals were classified by Shri Sankaracharya.\n"}
{"id": "46680078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46680078", "title": "Dalbir Chetan", "text": "Dalbir Chetan\n\nDalbir Singh Jhand known as Punjabi writer Dalbir Chetan was a foremost short-story writer of contemporary Punjabi literature. He had won awards, both regional and national, and is a widely translated author. He retired as Indian Air Force officer. The renowned Punjabi writer Dalbir Chetan (60), whose works were translated into a number of South-East Asian languages, is no more. Though not a prolific writer, he was the author of four thought-provoking short story books — Rishteyian De Aar Paar, Raat Baraate, Khara Badal and Mehndi Bazaar book's main story Mehndi Bazaar was translated and reviewed in journal South Asian Review. His book Mehndi Bazaar was translated into seven South-East Asian languages and selected in Twenty Stories from South Asia. Many of his stories were translated into Urdu, English, Hindi, Oriya, Telugu and Gujarati languages. Some of his short stories were telecast on television. He also edited an anthology \"Asi Javaab Dinde Haan\", which won him appreciation.\n\nDalbir Chetan was born on April 5, 1944 in village Taragarh Talawa in the Amritsar district of Punjab in a well-to-do land-owning family. He was educated at Amritsar and Patiala. Dalbir Chetan completed his studies and joined the Indian Air Force where he served for a long span of 15 years. After retiring from the Air Force, he started a school at his native village. Later, he joined the Excise and Taxation Department from where he retired two years ago. After superannuating from the Air Force and the Excise and Taxation Department, he continued to pursue writing.\n\nBooks:\nDalbir Chetan was a famous Punjabi short-story writer, the author of Six books of short stories titled: \n\nMehndi Bazaar was translated into seven South-East Asian languages, and many of his stories were translated into Urdu, English, Hindi, Oriya, Telugu and Gujarati; some were also dramatized for television. His story Mehndi Bazaar is also part of MIT OpenCourseWare(OCW) South Asian literature and culture coursework of top University Massachusetts Institute of Technology of USA and selected in Twenty Stories from South Asia.\n\nHe edited an anthology entitled Asi Javaab Dinde Haan, which won him appreciation. His story Mehndi Bazaar was also part of MIT Open course as mentioned above.\n\nThe characters in Chetan's stories and short-stories are the downtrodden and the innocent rural folk with suppressed desires and passions. Tragedy and irony mark the main elements of her fiction. Complex inner duality of the female psyche is the chief theme of Dalbir Chetan. \nOne of his admirers remarked that his demise had recreated a vacuum in the literary circles. It was about Chetan that Amrita Pritam said, \"Dalbir Singh Chetan has such a power in his writings that his personified characters actually stir up the sentiments of the reader.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22397574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22397574", "title": "Daniel Zion", "text": "Daniel Zion\n\nDaniel S. Zion, (Tsion, Tzion or Ziyon), (דניאל ציון),(Salonika, 3 August 1883 – Jaffa, Israel, 13 November 1979), was an Orthodox rabbi, Kabbalist and a political activist. Zion came to Sofia (Bulgaria) as a slaughterer and Cantor. Bulgaria’s Jewish community at the time was almost completely assimilated, there were no ultra-Orthodox communities Sofia, Bulgaria during the Metropolitan Stefan]] the head of the [[Bulgarian Orthodox Church]] in Sofia.> Bishop Stefan then appealed to Tsar [[Boris III of Bulgaria|Boris III]].\n\nOn May 24, 1943, Rabbi Zion addressed a gathering at a [[synagogue]]. He then participated in a mass street demonstration against the anti-Jewish [[Law for protection of the nation]]. This law was in effect between 23 January 1941 to 27 November 1944.\n\nBishop Stefan gave him refuge from the Nazis. However on May 26, 1943, he and many demonstrators were arrested by the police. He was then sent to a [[concentration camp]] for Jews at [[Somovit]] on the bank of the [[Danube]].\n\nAfter the war the Communists appointed him Chief Rabbi of [Sofia, Bulgaria – and as a result he was called the “Red Rabbi” by the Jews (because it was the “Reds”, aka the Communists) who gave him that honorarium. . In 1949 Rabbi Zion emigrated to Jaffa, Israel. In June 1950 a panel of Israeli rabbis ruled that Zion was mentally ill and removed him from the position of rabbi in Jaffa. He died in Jaffa in 1976 or 1979 as incorrectly noted by some sources. \n\nAfter emigrating to Israel Rabbi Zion was accused of having an interest in Dunovism, a Bulgarian mystical Christian teaching which combined Orthodox Christianity with local Bulgarian religious practices led Peter Deunov, and calling for a retrial of Jesus.\n\nOn June 13, 1950 the Ma’ariv newspaper in Israel wrote that the then Chief Ashkenazi (European) Rabbi of Tel-Aviv, Rabbi Isser Y'hudah Unterman </ref> (1946 - 1964), interviewed Sephardi Jews who knew Tsion / Zion. They reported that Zion / Tsion has been very nervous and agitated. He fasted for three days and then said he was hallucinating (having visions). In June 1950 a conference of rabbis declared him \"insane.\" Zion was not even allowed to enter any Synagogues in the city of Jaffa, Israel. * He was relieved from his duties as a judge on a Beth Din. Some Messianic Jewish and Protestant missionaries state that Rabbi Zion was stripped of his post and then left the rabbinate as he secretly, and later more openly, held the view that Jesus was the Messiah after having a vision of him. They state that Rabbi Zion gave an interview for the United Protestant Service on 14 September 1952 in Jerusalem broadcast on Kol Yisrael Radio, the national Israeli radio station, in which he expressed his faith in Jesus as the Messiah, and served as the President of the \"Union of Messianic Jews in Israel\" (\"Ichud Yehudim Meshihiim Be-Israel\") founded by Abram Poljak.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47267347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47267347", "title": "Dennis Villarojo", "text": "Dennis Villarojo\n\nDennis Cabanada Villarojo (born April 18, 1967 in Cebu City) is a bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Cebu and currently serves as an auxiliary to Archbishop José S. Palma . He completed his high school formation at the Colegio de San Jose- Recoletos in the same city. He entered San Carlos Seminary College of the Archdiocese of Cebu where he finished his philosophical studies. Later, he continued his priestly training at the Pontifical and Royal University of Santo Tomas in Manila, where he took his theological studies, and obtained his licentiate degree in Ecclesiastical Philosophy.\n\nHe was ordained deacon by Jaime Cardinal Sin in Manila on 1993. A year later on June 10, 1994, he was ordained priest for the Archdiocese of Cebu. For four years, from 1994 to 1998, he was personal secretary of Ricardo Cardinal Vidal, the Ordinary of the Archdiocese at that time.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2001, Monsignor Villarojo continued his post-graduate studies in Philosophy, in Rome, at the Pontifical University of the Holy Cross, where he earned his doctorate in this discipline.\n\nAfter studying in Rome, he returned to his country and continued, until 2010, to take the task as secretary of Cardinal Vidal and at the same time as coordinator of the pastoral planning board of the archdiocese.\n\nSince 2010, Monsignor Villarojo has been the chairman of the pastoral team at the parish of the Our Lady of the Sacred Heart in Barangay Capitol Site, Cebu City. In 2012, he was also appointed secretary-general of the 51st International Eucharistic Congress, which will be held in Cebu, in January 2016.\n\nOn 3 July 2015, Pope Francis designated Monsignor Villarojo as one of the auxiliary bishops of Cebu. He was consecrated bishop on 10 August 2015 at the Metropolitan Cathedral of the Archdiocese of Cebu, by Archbishop Jose Palma, the current Ordinary of the Archdiocese. Ricardo Cardinal Vidal (Cardinal Archbishop Emeritus of Cebu), and Archbishop Giuseppe Pinto (Papal Nuncio to the Philippines) were the co-consecrators.\n\nBishop Villarojo's personal Coat of Arms is blazoned as follows:\n\nArms: \"Per fesse\", in dexter base Gules a mullet of six points, and in sinister base a Sun in splendour, all Or; in chief Argent and issuant from the base the Shrine of Magellan's Cross Proper.\n\nThe shield is surmounted by a Bishop's cross and by a Roman galero of this rank, i.e., Vert with six tassels of the same pendant (1,2,3) at both sides.\n\nThe symbolism of the heraldic achievement is as follows:\n\nThe Magellan's Cross Kiosk in the upper white field (chief Argent) symbolizes his being a cebuano bishop. It is also the 51st International Eucharistic Congress Pilgrim Symbol. Bishop Villarojo is also the Secretary-General of the 51st International Eucharistic Congress.\n\nThe red base of the coat of arms represents the Martyrdom of Saint Denis, Patron of Paris, France, of Saint Pedro Calungsod (a Cebuano Martyr and the 2nd Filipino Saint), and of Saint Lawrence of Rome (another marytr), whose feast is commemorated by the Catholic Church on August 10 - the day of Bishop Villarojo's Episcopal Ordination. The color red has also another significance. The Official Newspaper of the Archdiocese of Cebu referred to the color's connection with the family name of the Bishop, which is translated in Cebuano as: \"\"Adunay kalambigitan sa akong bangsagon nga Villarojo, kinatsila sa \"dakong balay o gamayng lungsod nga pula\"\" (A big house or a small city of red).\n\nThe six-pointed star (mullet of six points)on the dexter side (right side with reference to the bearer) represents the Blessed Virgin Mary. This star is also a seen on the Image of Our Lady of Mount Carmel. Bishop Villarojo is a member of the Third Order of the Order of the Discalced Carmelites.\n\nOn the sinister side (left side with reference to the bearer) of the base is a Sun in splendour, which represents the Pontifical and Royal University of Santo Tomas where he studied Theology. The sun is also symbolic of the Light of the Truth - Christ.\n\nVillarojo's motto is taken from the Book of the Prophet Isaiah 40:1, \"Consolamini Popule Meus\" (“Be consoled my people”).\n\n"}
{"id": "28589101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28589101", "title": "Dwara Nikaya", "text": "Dwara Nikaya\n\nMaha Dwara Nikaya (, ); also spelt Maha Dwaya Nikaya or Mahādvāra Nikāya, is the name of a small monastic order of monks in Myanmar (Burma), numbering a three to four thousand monks, primarily in Lower Myanmar. This order is very conservative with respect to Vinaya regulations. It is one of 9 legally sanctioned monastic orders (nikaya) in the country, under the 1990 Law Concerning Sangha Organizations.\n\nThe founding of Dwara Nikaya was inspired by nikaya reforms in Sri Lanka during the 19th century. This Nikaya was founded in 1855, over disputes with the Thudhamma Nikaya on the constitution of a \"sīmā\" ( or \"thein\" in Burmese), a formal boundary in which Buddhist religious ceremonies (including ordination of Sangha) occur.\n\nIn 1900 and 1918, two other groups, the Anaukchaung Dwara () and Mula Dwara () respectively, separated from the Dwara Nikaya over leadership disputes.\n\n"}
{"id": "6171642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6171642", "title": "Elcesaites", "text": "Elcesaites\n\nThe Elcesaites, Elkasaites, Elkesaites or Elchasaites were an ancient Jewish Christian sect in Lower Mesopotamia, then the province of Asōristān in the Sasanian Empire. \n\nThe name of the sect derives from the alleged founder: \"Elkhasaí\" ( in Hippolytus), \"Elksai\" () in Epiphanius), or \"Elkesai\" ( in Eusebius, and Theodoret). The sect is believed to be a faction of the Ebionites and was identified by early writers with the Sabians.\n\nThe sect is only directly mentioned in the commentaries on \"heresies\" by Early Church Fathers. \n\nHippolytus of Rome (\"Refutation of All Heresies\", IX, 8-13) records that in the time of Pope Callixtus I (217–222 AD), a Jewish Christian called Alcibiades of Apamea came to Rome, bringing a book which he said had been received in Parthia by a just man named Elchasai. According to Alcibiades, the book had been revealed by an angel ninety-six miles high, sixteen miles broad and twenty-four across the shoulders, whose footprints were fourteen miles long and four miles wide by two miles deep. This giant angel was the Son of God, who was accompanied by His Sister, the Holy Ghost, of the same dimensions. Alcibiades announced that a new remission of sins had been proclaimed in the third year of Trajan (AD 100), and he described a baptism which should impart this forgiveness even to the grossest sinners.\n\nHippolytus' commentary starts in Book 10 Chapter 8. In his next section, Hippolytus recounts that Alcibiades teaches the natural birth, preexistence and reincarnation of Jesus which may relate, per Louis Ginzberg (1906) to the kabbalistic concept of Adam Kadmon, and also that Alcibiades teaches circumcision and the Law of Moses. Hippolytus then goes on at length to describe the group's teaching on baptism. For all sins of impurity, even against nature, a second baptism is enjoined \"in the name of the great and most high God and in the name of His Son the great King\", with an adjuration of the seven witnesses written in the book (sky, water, the holy spirits, the angels of prayer, oil, salt and earth). One who has been bitten by a mad dog is to run to the nearest water and jump in with all his clothes on, using the foregoing formula, and promising the seven witnesses that he will abstain from sin. The same treatment – forty days consecutively of baptism in cold water – is recommended for consumption and for the possessed. In his Chapter 11, Hippolytus discusses in more detail the teaching of the book including Elchasai's Sabbatarian teaching and the instruction not to baptise under certain astrological stars. Hippolytus concludes his review of the Elcesaites in \"Refutations\" Book 10, Ch.12 with a general exhortation to avoid heresy which gives away no more information.\n\nAdolf von Harnack (1898) reads \"was proclaimed\" instead of \"has been proclaimed\" (as if and not ), and thus inferred that a special year of remission is spoken of as past once for all – and that Alcibiades had no reason for inventing this, so that Adolf Bernhard Christoph Hilgenfeld (1884) was right in holding that Elchasai really lived under Trajan, as Epiphanius of Salamis supposed. Putting aside this claim of Harnack's (and also his earlier conjecture that the remission in the third year of Trajan meant that the first two books of \"The Shepherd of Hermas\" were published in that year), we see that the remission offered is by the new baptism.\n\nEusebius (\"History\" 6.38) records a summary of a sermon on Psalm 82 delivered in Caesarea by Origen c. 240–250 AD which warns his audience against the doctrine of \"the Elkesaites\". Eusebius' record of this sermon forms the second source on the group. According to Eusebius, Origen regarded the heresy as quite new, and states that the group deny the writings of Paul, but claim to have received a new book from heaven.\nA century and a half later, Epiphanius of Salamis found it in use among the Sampsæans, descendants of the earlier Elcesaites, and also among the Essenes and many other Ebionite communities. We learn further from Epiphanius that the book condemned virginity and continence, and made marriage obligatory. It permitted the worship of cult images to escape persecution, provided the act was merely an external one, disavowed in the heart. Prayer was to be made not to the East, but always towards Jerusalem.\n\nYet all animal sacrifice was condemned, with a denial that it had been offered by the Patriarchs or in the Torah. The Prophets as well as the Christian Apostles were rejected, and of course Paul the Apostle and all his writings.\n\nEpiphanius mentions as Elkesai's brother a man called Jekseos ( in Hæreses, xix. 1), and explains the brother's name as being derived from the Hebrew for \"hidden power\" and Elkesai as \"the hidden God.\" Epiphanius records that the saints of the Elcesaites were two women: Martha (\"mistress\") and Marthana (\"our mistress\").\n\nThe Cologne Mani-Codex (dated from the fourth century) describes the parents of Mani, founder of Manichaeism, as \"followers of the prophet Alchasaios\", which scholars have identified with Elchasai. Alchasaios is stated to be a prophet also honoured by Mani. His name appears in several other sources on Manicaeanism, but in so changed form that the identification with Elchasai was clear only with the publication of the Cologne codex.\n\nThe Codex deals with the Elcesaites extensively, confirms some of the Church Fathers’ statements about them, and depicts Mani as a 'reformer' with the purpose to 'restore' the true doctrine of prophet Alchasaios, which his followers had 'misunderstood'. In particular, Mani criticises their repeated baptism rituals.\n\nThe Elcesaites may be mentioned in a Persepolis inscription from the third century, with a sect name \"mktk-\" from the Iranian root \"mak-\", \"to moisten\" or \"to wash\". Much later, in his \"Fihrist\", the Arabic Muslim scholar ibn al-Nadim, c. 987, found Mogtasilah (\"washers\"), a sect of Sabians in the desert who counted al-Hasih (possibly Arabic for \"Elchasai\") as their founder.\n\nIt has been customary to find Elcasaite doctrine in the Clementine \"Homilies\" and \"Recognitions\", especially in the former. The 1911 \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" calls this groundless and refers to the article on Clementine literature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9367157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9367157", "title": "Elisheva Carlebach Jofen", "text": "Elisheva Carlebach Jofen\n\nElisheva Carlebach Jofen is an American scholar of early modern Jewish history.\n\nCarlebach has been the Salo Wittmayer Baron Professor of Jewish history, culture and society at Columbia University since 2009. She was previously a Professor of Jewish History at Queens College and the Graduate Center, CUNY, in New York City. Professor Carlebach obtained her bachelor's degree from Brooklyn College. In 1986 she completed her PhD in Jewish History at Columbia University.\n\nProfessor Carlebach is married to Rabbi Mordechai Jofen, the rosh yeshiva (\"dean\") of the Novardok yeshiva Beis Yosef in Brooklyn, New York City. She uses her maiden name professionally and her married name in her personal life.\n\nDr. Carlebach's family was one of the preeminent rabbinical families in Germany before the Holocaust. Her grandfather was Rabbi Joseph Carlebach, the last chief rabbi of Hamburg, and her father is Rabbi Shlomo Carlebach who served as the mashgiach ruchani at the Yeshiva Rabbi Chaim Berlin and author of the commentary on the Humash \"Maskil Lishlomo\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52330204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52330204", "title": "Forqan Group", "text": "Forqan Group\n\nForqn Group (, named after Al-Furqan sura) was an Iranian opposition militant group with clandestine cell system adhering to a Shia anti-clerical Islamist ideology.\n\nFurqan successfully assassinated some senior officials, including Gen. Valiollah Qarani, Morteza Motahari, Mohammad Mofatteh and Mohammad Ali Qazi Tabatabaei but it was soon terminated following arrest and execution of its key members in 1980.\n\nThe group opposed other social sectors such as the \"wealthy \"bazaaris\"\", the \"liberal\npoliticians\" and the \"Marxist atheists\" who, in their view, \"were plotting to betray the Islamic Revolution\" .\nThe group self-proclaimed to be followers of Ali Shariati, however claim was used instrumentally to look more \"prestigious\" and allow them to develop their combined ideology.\n\nDue to the literal meaning Forqan is described as criterion or standard. Proof or evidence is the meaning that Wehr's dictionary give to this word. Uri Rubin introduced Forquan as one of names of the Quran. Muslim scholars believes that the root of this word is F.R.Q means depart. In the Tarikh al-Tabari and Tafsir al-Kabir (al-Razi) the root of this word that means \"to God's separating or distinguishing between truth and falsehood, is defined F.R.Q.\n\nThe Forqan group is the Islamic shia group that emphasized the Islam without clergy and decided to present the real Islam and truthful message of Quran.\n\nAccording to the Shariati' thought, the rule of the unity of Allah forms the basic element of an equal and just society in the Muhammad prophet's tradition. He believed that the Twelve Imams (not Rashidun except Ali) are the real successors of the Prophet and they tried to make equal society. Also he considered shia Islam above all ideologies and religions but clerics should not have key role at political positions. Akbar Goodarzi who were affected by revolutionary thought of Shariati, authored interpretation of the Quran named monotheistic ideology. Shariati followed Islamic method without clerical intervention such as Abul A'la Maududi 's idea but Goodarzi was more fanatical than Shariati and on 1970 the Forqan group was founded by him. Another person who had important effect on forming the ideology of Forqan group was Habibollah Ashory, the frustrated cleric.\n\nThe climax of activities of Forqan group, actually the fight against clericalism is seen at early days after victory of Iranian revolution and finally this group in early1980 was eliminated by arresting members of it.\n\nThe Forqan group was a radical Iranian organization that claimed responsibility for a number of assassinations during the 1979 Revolution. The responsibilities of following assassinated persons had been undertaken by this group:\nMohammad-Vali Gharani, Morteza Motahhari, Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani , Mohammad Taghi Haji Tarkhani, Abbas Amir-Entezam, Seyed Razi Shirazi, Seyed Mohsen Behbahani, Hosein Mahdian, Mahdi Iraqi, Hesam Iraqi, Mohammad Baqir Dashtianeh, Hans Joachim Leib, Mohammad Ali Qazi Tabatabaei, Mohammad Mofatteh, Javad Bahmani, Asghar Nemati, Faqih Imani and Qasim Rouhani.\n\nThe assassination attempts on prominent Iranians Ahmad Ladjevardi , Ali Khamenei and Abdul-Karim Mousavi Ardebili were attributed to furqan group.\n\n"}
{"id": "16148158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16148158", "title": "Freedom of religion in Syria", "text": "Freedom of religion in Syria\n\nThe constitution of the Syrian Arab Republic guarantees freedom of religion. Syria has had two constitutions: one passed in 1973, and one in 2012 through a referendum. Opposition groups rejected the referendum; claiming that the vote was rigged.\n\nSyria has come under international condemnation over their alleged \"anti-Semitic\" state media, and for alleged \"sectarianism towards Sunni Muslims\". This is a claim that Damascus denies.\n\nOn March 8, 1963, the Syrian Armed Forces overthrew the government of the French Mandate for Syria in a military coup d'état. After a great deal of struggle between various groups for power, the Ba'athist party assumed power over Syria. Being opposed to religion in general, the Ba'athist theoretician Michel Aflaq associated religion with the old corrupt social order, oppression, and exploitation of the weak; seeming to have been influenced by a mixture of radical Hobbesian and Marxist views on religion. The constitution, however, still made it clear that in quote \"Islamic jurisprudence shall be the main source for legislation\". Despite this proviso, there were a number of Sunni Muslims who felt that the secularization of the country had gone too far. They pressed for Islam as a state religion, demanding that all laws contrary to Islam should be abrogated. Their beliefs encompassed the understanding that the essential elements of the unity of Syria is the shari'a, which includes laws adequate to organize all aspects of life; at the level of the individual, the family, the nation and the state.\n\nFrom the founding of modern- day Syria, there were underlying tensions that stemmed from sectarianism between the majority Sunni Muslim bloc and the minority Shias, Alawites, and Christians.\n\nIn 1973, a new constitution was drafted after demands from the opposition for stricter Islamic law. The Constitution was adopted by the People's Council at the end of January 1973 but had no provision to that effect. Viewing the Constitution as the product of an Alawite dominated, secular, Ba'athist ruling elite, Sunni militants staged a series of riots in February 1973 in conservative and predominantly Sunni cities such as Hamah and Homs. Numerous demonstrators were killed or wounded in clashes between the troops and demonstrators. After these demonstrations took place, the Assad government had the draft charter amended to include a provision that the President of Syria must be Muslim, and that Islamic law is a main source of legislation as a compromise to the Islamists. On March 13, 1973, the new Constitution (which is no longer applicable, having been amended in 2012) went into effect.\n\nParagraph 2 of Article 3 declares that Islamic jurisprudence is \"a\" source of law, but not \"the\" absolute source. Bernard Botiveau notes that from a Ba'athist perspective \"Islam was one of the fundamental components of Arabness, but required to be located at the religious, and not the political end.\" Sunni Shaykh Muhammad al-Habash interprets the provision to mean that it \"refers to the situation where there is another source of law. Islam is a main source, but not the unique source. There are other sources for a wide area of law.\" Scholarly commentator Nael Georges supposes that if there is no Islamic law that regulates a specific circumstance, secular law is applied. However, Georges concludes that there is not strict separation between Islam and the state in its present constitutional setup. Despite this Article in the Constitution, Syria identifies itself as secular, and does not follow Islamic law. In Bashar al-Assad's speech in 2013, he reaffirmed his commitment to keeping Syria a secular state.\n\nSyria's eighteen million population is a mosaic of ethnically, culturally, and religiously distinct communities. Ninety percent of the Syrians adhere to an Arab identity; another roughly nine percent is Kurdish, Armenian, Circassian, and Turkomans filling out the mix. It is estimated that Sunni Muslims make up seventy-four percent of Syria's overall population. As such, Sunnis provide the central symbolic and cultural orientation. Of these, a minority are of the Yazidi faith, reducing the core Sunni Arab majority to roughly two-thirds of the populace. Approximately another sixteen percent of the population, while Arab in ethnicity, consists of a few Twelver Shi`a, and various offshoots of Shi'a Islam – Alawite, Druze, and Isma'ilis. The 'Alawis are by far the largest community in the category of non-Sunni Muslims. Their number is estimated at eleven percent of the overall population. Christians, of various Eastern Orthodox and Uniate traditions and the Latin Rite, along with a smattering of Protestants, make up ten percent of the population. Syria's Arab Jewish community has, to a great extent, disappeared as a result of emigration in the early 1990s. In 1993, it was reported that there were 3,655 individuals of the Jewish faith comprising 584 families distributed throughout the various Syrian governantes.\n\nThe Constitution of the Syrian Arab Republic that was passed in 2012 guaranteed religious freedom in Article 3 and Article 33. Article 3 stipulates:\n\nDespite claiming to be a secular state, the 2012 constitution also states in Article 3 that the President must be a Muslim, and that the majority of laws will based on Islam. Despite being prevalent in the constitution, Syria is seen as a secular state without having its laws based on Islam.\n\nIn Syria, two kinds of judicial systems exist: a secular and a religious one. Secular courts hear matters of public, civil and criminal law. Religious courts that exercise specialized jurisdiction are divided into shari'a courts, doctrinal courts, and spiritual courts. They hear personal status law cases only. Shari'a courts regulate disputes among Syrian Muslims, whereas doctrinal courts are empowered to guarantee the personal status decisions of members of the Druze cult. Spiritual courts can also settle personal status matters for Jewish, Christian and other non-Muslim groups. Decisions of all of the religious courts may be appealed to the canonical and spiritual divisions of the Court of Cassation.\n\nHowever, in 2016 the de facto autonomous Federation of Northern Syria - Rojava for the first time in Syrian history introduced and started to promote civil marriage as a move towards a secular open society and intermarriage between people of different religious backgrounds.\n\nThe second preponderant element of collective religious self-determination under Article 35 of the Syrian Constitution is the ability to manage and control public waqf. Making available the waqf institution is not so much a new innovation of the Syrian state, but all the more a continuation of an ancient practice which has its roots in Byzantine and Sasanian trust law. Mainly the Umayyads and the Ottomans developed what can nowadays be seen as constitutional custom. For historians the waqf institution provided the foundation for much of what is considered Islamic civilization.\n\nIn 1947 the Syrian waqf administration, headed by the Prime Minister, was formed. For the first time in Syrian history, the members of the High Council of Awqaf were nominated and not voted for. The law was later reversed, as in the year 1961, and a new statutory source came into effect. Parts of the Council's initial authority were definitely curtailed in 1965. The competences to nominate leaders and teachers of mosques as well as religious administrators were eventually transferred to the powers of the Syrian Prime Minister in 1966.\n\nIn spite of that, notable Sunni Islamic leaders retained their influence in the waqf administration and Ministry in that they were given important offices. Today, the competences of the waqf Ministry encompass, inter alia: the administration of waqf wealth (which includes much of Syria's property); mufti organization; administration of mosques and shari'a schools; control of charitable state functions; and the preparation of parliamentary bills. The waqf administration as part of the waqf Ministry, is composed half of secular and half of religious personnel. Its minister is nominated by the President of the Syrian Arab Republic. Since the establishment of the Ministry, waqf ministers have always been adherents of Sunni Islam.\n\nNon-Muslim waqf – those of the Druze, Christians, and Jews – were not included under the French programme and mandate reforms. Non-Muslim waqf continue to be administered by the leaders of the respective religious community, but is overseen by the waqf Ministry. Act No. 31 of 2006 contains an entire body of legal provisions regulating the waqf institution of the Catholic rites. Similar Acts were adopted for all non-Muslim waqf institutions. Many Christian or Jewish founders of pious trusts donated the revenues to their non-Muslim institutions. This kind of public waqf pays for the construction and maintenance of churches, schools, or the salaries of their personnel. Waqf revenues likewise pay for religious orders and other religious constructions and buildings such as cemeteries and tombs. Waqf funds are used for libraries, translation centres, and students' scholarships. Orphanages, needs of widows, the blind or other handicapped or poor people are all cared for with waqf money.\n\nSyrians are free to engage or refrain from engaging in belief or religious observance in any manner other than is prohibited by law. Article 35(1) of the Syrian constitution holds that: \"Freedom of faith is guaranteed […].\" The provision includes the freedom to retain or chose one's religion, or to replace the current religion with another, or to adopt atheistic views. There is no official legal punishment under Syrian law for apostasy of Islam, or any other religion. Article 35(2) of the Syrian Constitution stipulates that \"the state guarantees the freedom to hold any religious rites […],\" as long as \"they [the apostates] do not disturb public order.\" As far as can be established, there is no Syrian case tying apostasy to \"disturbing public order.\" The provision is interpreted by scholarly means in the sense that a person who wishes to convert is free to do so as long as such activity is \"made in private.\" The meaning of the words \"in private\" in association with the requirement not to \"disturb public order\" need to be looked at from two varying angles: converting from a specific religion to another religion; and vice versa.\n\nA Muslim is disallowed by virtue of Islamic jurisprudence to challenge society. Former Judge Haitham Maleh comments, \"any Syrian Muslim is allowed to change his religion provided that conversion is exercised behind closed doors and without affecting neighbours.\" Judge Maleh reiterates more specifically, \"an effect must not even be felt by the closest family members.\" This can be construed as a condemnation of publicly announcing a change in religion; although no case exists of a person being charged for publicly converting to a different religion. However, an apostate from a religion has no legal right to speak about or act upon his or her new belief. The word \"private\" means the forum internum of a person. This interpretation approach is also reflected, for instance, in the general inability to change a Muslim's birth certificate or other personal documents. Moreover, it is a generally accepted practice that there are no religious ceremonies for such personal, highly intimate events. \n\nThe primary listed reason why Syrian Muslims cannot change their religion is not the passive role of the state, but Syrian society. Father Paulo comments \"freedom of religion is virtually unthinkable with regard to the cultural role religion plays in everyday Syrian society.\" He opines that the \"replacing of one's current religion would not only mean the complete loss of one's social ties, including one's own family, friends, and acquaintances, but maybe also professional position.\" From this perspective there are no legal but a fortiori social sanctions. Islamic scholar Jørgen S. Nielsen says in the same regard \"the state obviously discourages it because it simply rocks the boat.\" \n\nHowever, the desire to adopt a new religion is a relatively rare phenomenon. Father Paulo believes that \"there are only a few such cases.\"\nIn Syria, the often-cited Hadith Sahih of al-Bukhari is of no direct legal effect. The Hadith demand, \"if someone changes the religion you have to kill him\" is not incorporated into the Syrian Penal Code of 1949. Judge Maleh argues that the idea of Sahih of al-Bukhari in 9:57 was \"to protect the Islamic society from Muslims who change their religion and start to work as enemies against Islam.\" Shaykh al-Habash muses similarly \"maybe Prophet Muhammad mentioned it for someone who changed his religion and began to fight as an enemy against Islam at that moment in history.\" Al-Habash cannot accept it as tradition that generally applies to all people changing from one religion to another, even in the case of Islam. To him, this tradition is not part of the precious Qur'an, but \"is a statement made by Prophet Muhammad and was later narrated by the people.\" Finally, Shaykh al-Habash emphasizes, \"ninety-nine percent of all Syrian Muslims believe that it is forbidden to use force against others.\"\n\nConversion to Islam is similarly regarded as private affair with one significant difference. Rule No. 212 of the Personal Status Act of 1953 holds that when a Muslim woman marries a non-Muslim man, Islam is offered to the husband. Moreover, the same rule reads, if he becomes Muslim his change in faith, it is written down in their marriage contract. But if he declines, the judge should keep them apart. In cases other than interfaith relationships, the act of conversion to Islam is not state institutionalized. Moreover, it is prohibited by Islamic fatwa to change religion once a person has converted to Islam. Conversion from a Christian sect to another Christian sect or Islam, while legal, is also problematic. Negative implications are felt on one's social ties including relations with family, friends and acquaintances. Patriarch Ignatius IV expressed his aversion to community members who adopt the faith of another Christian rite, by stating: \n\nThere are new sects coming from Europe and America to Syria. As long as they are of Christian faith they are subject to few limitations. From the Greek-Orthodox point of view we dislike them, because not only are they involved in missionary work, but divide us as a Christian community. We are fully against any division, we want to stay visible. Our belief is that Jesus comes from Bethlehem, and not from London or New York.\n\nTo the Swiss scholar Marcel Stüssi, the inherent difficulty with regard to Syrian religious freedom lies in the circumstance that the Western reader is required to reset some, but not all, knowledge on Western values unless she or he wants to be trapped by specific modes of thinking. While in the West, fairness means that the state protects a more or less autonomous society in which individuals are free to form a variety of allegiances and bonds of solidarity along any lines they choose (leisure, political, religious, cultural, racial, sexual etc.), in the Near East the justice system requires the state to assure that the individual is related to the religious community as part of a larger organism.\n\nMembership in the Syrian Muslim Brotherhood is illegal, as is membership in any \"Salafist\" organization, a designation in Syrian parlance that denotes Saudi-inspired fundamentalism. The Syrian government and the State Security Court have not defined the exact parameters of what constitutes a Salafist or why it is illegal. Affiliation with the Syrian Muslim Brotherhood is punishable by death, although in practice the sentence is typically commuted to 12 years imprisonment. While there has not been an official explanation as to why Salafist parties are illegal Syria, nor how this action in constitutional, it is generally seen as the Syrian state attempting to suppress the non- Secular opposition in fear of a Saudi- backed uprising.\n\nAll religions, religious orders, political groups, parties, and news organizations must register with the government, which monitors fund raising and requires permits for all religious and non-religious group meetings; with the exception of worship. The registration process is complicated and lengthy, but the government usually allows groups to operate informally while awaiting its response. This was re-affirmed in the 2012 constitution.\n\nThere is a de facto separation of religion and state in that the Syrian government generally refrains from involvement in strictly religious matters and religious groups tend not to participate in internal political affairs. However, Syria has increased its support for the practice and study of government-sanctioned, moderate forms of Islam, and Syrian state radio also began broadcasting the dawn and afternoon Muslim prayers, in addition to its traditional broadcast of noon prayers. Syrian state television also broadcasts recitations from the Qur'an in the morning.\n\nSyria permits the use of religious language in public spaces, including the placement of banners bearing religious slogans at the site of prominent public landmarks during religious holidays. However, there have been no recent examples of prominent religious figures addressing government functions.\n\nSyria's government policy officially disavows sectarianism of any kind, although religion can be a key factor in determining career opportunities. For example, Alawites hold dominant positions in the security services and military that are extremely disproportionate to their percentage of the population. Also, Jehovah's Witnesses are discriminated against in the area of employment as their religion is banned as a \"politically motivated Zionist organization\".\n\nThe April 2007 parliamentary elections for the Syrian Peoples Assembly saw an increase in the number of Islamic clerics elected to the Parliament from one in 2003 to three.\n\nThe government promotes Islamic banking. In early 2007 two Islamic banks were allowed to conduct initial public offerings: The Cham Islamic Bank and the Syria International Islamic Bank.\n\nSyria is intolerant of, and suppresses, extremist and conservative forms of Islam. Accordingly, it selects what they believe to be moderate Muslims for religious leadership positions. These people typically have no intention of altering the secular nature of the government. Sheikh Ahmed Baderedin Hassoun, the Grand Mufti of Syria, continued to call on Muslims to stand up to Islamic fundamentalism and has urged leaders of the various religious groups to engage in regular dialogues for mutual understanding.\n\nAll schools are officially government-run and non-sectarian, although in practice some schools are run by the Christian and Druze communities. There is mandatory religious instruction in schools for all religious groups, with government-approved teachers and curriculum. Religious instruction is provided on Islam and Christianity only, and courses are divided into separate classes for Muslim and Christian students. Groups that participate in Islamic courses include Sunni, Shi'a, Alawi, Ismaili, Yezidi, and Druze. Although Arabic is the official language in public schools, the government permits the teaching of Armenian, Hebrew, and Aramaic in some schools on the basis that these are \"liturgical languages.\" There is no mandatory religious study at the university level.\n\nReligious groups are subject to their respective religious laws for matters dealing with personal status. Syria has not yet passed legislation pertaining to personal status issues for Orthodox Christians.\n\nA new Civil Law for Catholics went into effect in 2006. It contains strict rules on the order of inheritance with regard to the relatives of the deceased, as well as on the jurisdiction of Christian courts. Additionally, there are laws that establish the legal marriage age and prohibit some instances of mixed marriage for Catholics, according to AsiaNews, the official press agency of the Roman Catholic Pontifical Institute for Foreign Missions. The law gives the bishop of a diocese and the Christian courts expanded authority to determine the validity of an adoption. The new law also clarifies parental rights and inheritance rules between adopting parents and the adopted child. The Catholic leadership generally received the law positively.\n\nSyrian law specifically provides for reduced or commuted sentences in \"honor crimes\", which involve violent assaults by a direct male relative against a female. Section 548 of the Syrian penal code stipulates that a man can be absolved of any killing if he witnesses a direct female relative in the act of adultery. Moreover, a man's sentence for murder will be greatly reduced if he sees a direct female relative in a \"suspicious situation\" with a member of the opposite sex who is not a relative.\n\nUnder Syria's interpretation of Shari'a, the legal standard for men to be granted a divorce is much lower than that for women. Husbands may also claim adultery as grounds for divorce, while wives often face a higher legal standard when presenting the same case. A man can only be found guilty of adultery if the act takes place inside the home. If a wife requests a divorce from her husband, she may be denied alimony and the return of her dowry in some instances.\n\nIn the event of divorce, a woman loses the right to custody of her sons when they reach the age of 13, and her daughters when they reach the age of 15, regardless of religion. Women can also lose custody before this age if they remarry, work outside the home, or move outside of the city or country. In such cases the custody of the children reverts to the maternal grandmother until the age of 13 and 15 respectively. After that, custody reverts to the father until the children reach the age of majority.\n\nInheritance for all citizens except Catholics is based on Shari'a. Accordingly, married women usually are granted half the inheritance share male heirs receive. In all communities, however, male heirs must provide financial support to unmarried female relatives who inherit less. For example, a brother would inherit his and his unmarried sister's share from their parents' estate, and he is obligated to provide for the sister's well-being with that inheritance. If the brother fails to do so, she has the right to sue. Polygamy is legal for Muslim men but is practised only by a minority of them.\n\nThe Syrian government generally does not prohibit links between its citizens and co-religionists in other countries or between its citizens and the international hierarchies that govern some religious groups. It does however prohibit contact between the Jewish community and Jews in Israel.\n\nThe following holy days are national holidays: Western Christmas, Orthodox and Western Easter, Eid al-Adha, Eid al-Fitr, the Islamic New Year, and the Birth of the Prophet Muhammad.\n\nIn 2007, Syria licensed the so-called Quabasis to hold their female-only Islamic study groups inside of mosques. Until then, they were held in private homes. Some regard the licensing as a cynical attempt by the security services to make it easier to monitor the Quabasis rather than to help facilitate their activities. However, Quabasis groups are still allowed to meet in private residences.\n\nProselytism is not prohibited by civil law; however, the government discourages it as a potential threat to the relations among religious groups. Nevertheless, foreign missionaries were present; operating discreetly. There were no reported cases of anyone being prosecuted for posing a threat to the relations among religious groups in recent years. Instead, there were several reports that Syria gave the Shi'a favorable treatment and allowed Shi'a missionaries to construct mosques and convert Sunnis to Shiites.\n\nAll groups, religious and non-religious, are subject to surveillance and monitoring by government security services. The Government particularly considers militant Islam a threat to the government and closely follows the practice of its adherents. While the Syrian government allows many mosques to be built, it monitors and controls sermons and often closes mosques between prayers.\n\nIn Damascus, a road is being built through the old city to a major Shi'a mosque. To complete the road, the government plans to tear down several predominantly Sunni residential complexes in the old city. The country's Sunni clerics and communities have criticized these plans.\n\nReligious minorities, with the exception of Jews, are represented among the senior officer corps. In keeping with the Syria's secular policy, though, the military does not have a chaplain corps; members of the military do not have direct access to religious or spiritual support; and soldiers are expected not to express their faith overtly during work hours. For example, Muslims are discouraged from praying while on duty.\n\nSyria canceled an Islamic religious program that had been broadcast just before the major weekly prayers were shown on government-run television. On April 20, 2007, the son of the late Grand Mufti, Sheikh Salah Khuftaro, in a speech at the Abu Nur Islamic Center, denounced the Information Minister for this decision.\n\nBefore the 2011 revolution, European diplomats and human rights organizations around the world characterized the level of repression against alleged Islamists as consistent throughout the years, with discrimination neither increasing nor decreasing. Some religious leaders insisted they faced increased repression at the hands of the Syrian government, however.\n\nHuman rights organizations documented the arrest of at least 30 persons for alleged ties to Islamist groups. The Government rarely furnishes documentation on the number of detained persons. Human rights groups have reported on the amount Syrians who have been arrested or detained for alleged ties to Islamist groups in previous years but whose detention have not been confirmed nor denied by the government.\n\nSince 2007, the Syrian Supreme State Security Court has sentenced at least 22 alleged Islamists to lengthy prison sentences.\n\nSyria continues to hold an unknown number of members of the Muslim Brotherhood and other Islamists as political detainees and prisoners. Many alleged Islamists not connected to the Muslim Brotherhood have been charged and convicted for membership in a Salafist organization. Arrests of alleged Islamists and, in some cases, convictions, were motivated primarily by the Syrian government's view of militant Islamists as potential threats to government stability.\n\nThe Jewish community is prohibited from sending historical Torahs abroad under a law against exporting any of the country's historical and cultural treasures. This poses a serious problem for the dwindling Jewish community concerned about the preservation of its ancient religious texts.\n\nOn June 24, 2007, Syrian Grand Mufti Sheikh Ahmed Baderedin Hassoun called on Jews of Syrian origin to return to Syria, claiming that the property and synagogues of Jews who left Syria remained as they were and would be placed at the disposal of their original owners. There have been no noticeable increase of Jews in Syria since, with no change in the discrimination and barring from the work force that those of the Jewish faith.\n\nOn 14 March 2007, during a lecture at Damascus University, Syrian Grand Mufti Sheikh Ahmad Baderedin Hassoun called for amending the laws that allow honor killings, which he said violate the Islamic spirit of the law.\n\nSince the uprising began in Syria, the country has grown increasingly sectarian, with a sharp divide between Shia Muslims and Christians generally supporting the government, and Sunni Muslims generally supporting the Free Syrian Army. The presence of Jews in Syria is almost non-existent, and they have not played a significant role in the revolution.\n\nThere have been occasional reports of minor tensions between religious groups, mainly attributable to economic rivalries rather than religious affiliation.\n\nIn March 2007 there were reports of riots in Hassakeh Province between Christians and predominantly Muslim Kurds. There were reports of three deaths. It was unclear whether there was any religious basis to the conflict.\n\nNo official statistics were kept on honor crimes, but there were scattered reports of them in the local media. Most prominent was the case of Zahra Ezzo. On January 31, 2007, Ezzo was murdered by her brother after being kidnapped and forced to run away by a friend of the family. The incidence of honor crimes is believed to be considerably higher in rural areas.\n\nSocial conventions and religious and theological proscriptions made conversion relatively rare, especially Muslim-to-Christian conversion. In many cases, societal pressure forced such converts to relocate within the country or leave the country to practice their new religion openly.\n\nOn 21 July 2010, the government in Damascus ordered the banning of face-covering niqab in public and private universities amid fears of increasing Islamic extremism among young Muslim students; with hundreds of teachers wearing niqabs were transferred out of Syrian schools and universities and reassigned to administrative jobs, where they would not come into contact with students.\n\n"}
{"id": "1972233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1972233", "title": "Freedom of religion in the Philippines", "text": "Freedom of religion in the Philippines\n\nFreedom of religion in the Philippines is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Philippines.\n\nThe 1987 Constitution of the Philippines declares: \"The separation of Church and State shall be inviolable.\" (Article II, Section 6), and, \n\"No law shall be made respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. The free exercise and enjoyment of religious profession and worship, without discrimination or preference, shall forever be allowed. No religious test shall be required for the exercise of civil or political rights.\" (Article III, Section 5)...\n\nThe Supreme Court of the Philippines, ruling in 2003 \nand 2006\nin the landmark case of \"Estrada vs. Escritor\", established the doctrine of benevolent neutrality-accommodation. The 2006 ruling, penned by former Chief Justice Puno, explained benevolent-neutrality in the context of U.S. jurisprudence as follows:\n\nThe ruling went on to cite a U.S. Supreme Court decision which had held that if prohibiting the exercise of religion is merely the incidental effect of a generally applicable and otherwise valid provision, the First Amendment has not been offended.\nThough concurring in the decision, Justice O'Connor dissented strongly from the rationale, arguing that a compelling state interest test should have been applied.\n\nEchoing Justice O'Connor's point from the U.S. case, the ruling in \"Estrada vs. Escritor\" went on to quote her as having said that strict scrutiny is appropriate for free exercise challenges because \"“[t]he compelling interest test reflects the First Amendment’s mandate of preserving religious liberty to the fullest extent possible in a pluralistic society.\"\n\nThe ruling then declared \"Underlying the compelling state interest test is the notion that free exercise is a fundamental right and that laws burdening it should be subject to strict scrutiny\", and summarized a three-part compelling state interest test by quoting Michael W. McConnell as follows:\n\nThe ruling noted that the then-current prevailing view under U.S. law is that there are no required accommodation under the First Amendment, although it permits of legislative accommodations. Considering Philippine jurisprudence, though, the ruling said:\n\nThese landmark decisions in \"Estrada vs. Escritor\" established that benevolent neutrality-accommodation is the framework by which free exercise cases must be decided in the Philippines. This amounts to a requirement that any law which conflicts with a violator's sincerely held religious beliefs must pass a strict scrutiny test in order to be enforceable.\n\nBy passing through the numerous phases of colonial occupation, the relationship between religion and government in the Philippines has repeatedly changed. The country had close ties between Roman Catholic Church and the government during the Spanish colonial period from 1565 to 1898. The American concept of separation of church and state was introduced during the American colonial period in the Philippine Constitution of 1899 and remains a part of the Philippine constitution today.\n\nBeginning with the Christianization of most of the Philippines in the 16th century, political power was shared by the Roman Catholic Church and the Spanish civil authorities. Horacio de la Costa, a Filipino Jesuit historian, mentions that the rules governing the cooperation of the two entities was set in the “Patronato Real de las Indias”, a combination of law and jurisprudence that governed the delicate relationship of the Holy See and the Spanish monarchy regarding colonial affairs. In the agreements, the Roman Catholic clergy gave the Spanish monarchy the \"responsibility of promoting, maintaining, and defending the Roman Catholic religion in... all Spanish dominions overseas\"\n. In return, the Spanish were permitted to exercise numerous rights to autonomously govern the colonial Roman Catholic Church virtually independent of Roman jurisdiction.\nOn the other hand, Teodoro Agoncillo, a Filipino historian from the University of the Philippines, mentions that the collaboration enabled the Spanish to readily subjugate the Indios (natives of the Philippines) by a potent combination of secular and religious might. The successful Legazpi conquest of the Philippines in 1565 recognized the power of clergy by bringing along Augustinian friar, navigator and priest Andrés de Urdaneta, to help control the natives. Other Spanish rulers acknowledged the importance of clergy. A Mexican viceroy (quoted in Agoncillo) said that \"in each friar in the Philippines, they had a captain and a whole army\". However, Church involvement had numerous ill effects, as antifriar Marcelo H. del Pilar of the late 19th century complains: \"... the friars control all the fundamental forces of society in the Philippines. They control the educational system, for they own the University of Santo Tomás, and are the local inspectors of every primary school. They control the minds of the people because in a dominantly Catholic country, the parish rectors can utilize the pulpit and confessionals to publicly or secretly influence the people.\"\n\nIn-fighting continued and reached its peak when the Gomburza, a triad of priests composed of Mariano Gómez, José Burgos, and Jacinto Zamora, were executed by civil authorities in 1872 after being implicated in the failed Cavite Mutiny in that same year. Popular discontent ensued, leading to the Philippine Revolution some twenty years later. The Spanish were unable to cope with multiple uprisings since their limited military was overextended. Bereft of the civil protection, clerics were at their most vulnerable. Rather than accept change, numerous friars \"handled the Mausers and Remingtons when the tide of battle was going against the colonial government\". As the status quo was being changed, the ties between Church and State began to fall apart.\n\nFilipino nationalists in 1898 framed a constitution for an independent Philippine republic. There were heated discussions on the provision on state and religion. Felipe Calderón presented his draft proposal calling for Roman Catholicism to be made a state religion. According to Jesuit historian John Schumacher, Calderón then attacked the position of Apolinario Mabini who insisted on the separation of church and state. The Calderón proposal, however, was defeated by a single vote, and the provision was finally passed. The constitution of 1899 states in Article 5:\n\nSpain ceded the Philippines to the United States in 1898. By the end of February, 1902, American forces had defeated the Philippine forces seeking to establish an independent Philippine republic. The Philippine Organic Act of 1902 provided, among other things, \"That no law shall be made respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof, and that the free exercise and enjoyment of religious profession and worship, without discrimination or preference, shall forever be allowed.\" \n\nSchumacher cites that William Howard Taft, the head of the Second Philippine Commission and the first civil governor of the Philippine Islands, was very much aware of the need to defuse anti-friar feeling throughout the islands. He requested the Spanish friars be given leave of their parish posts. Many of the friars left voluntarily, and were replaced by native Filipino priests in lower ranks and American bishops in the ranks of the episcopacy. Negotiations also began for the compulsory sale of vast Roman Catholic Church holdings. Although the sale was affected by pressure from influential sectors like some bishops and certain delegates, it achieved Taft’s goal of sequestering all the Roman Catholic Church lands, something that the ill-fated Philippine Republic had failed to achieve. After taking the land, the governor intended to redistribute the land. This not only reduced the financial position of the Roman Catholic Church, but also diminished the influential clout it had during the Spanish colonial period.\n\nAmerican jurisprudence reintroduced separation of church and state relying on the First Amendment and the metaphor of Thomas Jefferson on the \"wall of separation... between church and state\"\n, but the Philippine experience has shown that this theoretical \"wall of separation\" has been crossed several times by secular authorities. Schumacher states that in 1906, the Philippine Supreme Court intervened in the issue of parish ownership by returning assets seized by the Philippine Independent Church, while certain charitable organizations managed or influenced by the Roman Catholic Church were either returned or sequestered.\n\nThe provision of the 1935 charter on religion mimicked the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, but the sentences\n\nWith the guarantee of religious freedom in the Philippines, the Roman Catholic Church clergy subsequently remained in the political background as a source of moral influence for many voters during elections until today. Political candidates generally court the clergy for support, although this does not guarantee victory for a candidate. The Philippines was placed under martial law by President Ferdinand Marcos and relations changed dramatically, as some bishops opposed the martial law.\n\nA new constitution was ratified in 1973 which included the separation of church and state clause, signaling a new development in the body of law on religious affairs. Joaquin Bernas, a Filipino Jesuit specializing in constitutional law, acknowledges that there were complex issues that were brought to court and numerous attempts to use the separation of Church and State against the Roman Catholic Church, but he defends the statement, saying that \"the fact that he [Marcos] tried to do it does not deny the validity of the separation of church and state\".\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church was instrumental in winning support for Corazon Aquino who replaced Marcos as president with Cardinal Sin calling for support. Aquino then initiated a new constitutional commission to frame a new charter again for the country. It is noted that Roman Catholic religious and clergy like Christine Tan, R.G.S., a nun, Joaquin Bernas, S.J., and Bishop Teodoro C. Bacani became part of the 1986 Constitutional Commission and left their mark on the promulgation of the charter and its numerous provisions on the Church and state.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40095966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40095966", "title": "Glory! Glory!", "text": "Glory! Glory!\n\nGlory! Glory! is a 1989 televangelism comedy film directed by Lindsay Anderson and starring Ellen Greene that originally aired on HBO in two parts.\n\nA radio preacher's operation is controlled by his honest but bland son. When the preacher is made a media superstar by a savvy huckster, the son is left behind. Everything changes when the son wanders into a bar and witnesses the performance of a woman rock and roll singer and he realizes she is just what he needs to rise to the top of the world of televanglism.\n\n"}
{"id": "1410955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1410955", "title": "His Holiness", "text": "His Holiness\n\nHis Holiness is a style and form of address (in the variant form Your Holiness) for some supreme religious leaders. The title is most notably used by the Pope, Oriental Orthodox Patriarchs, and Dalai Lama.\n\n\"His Holiness\" () is the official style used to address the Roman Catholic Pope and Oriental Orthodox Patriarchs. In the Eastern Orthodox Church, the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople has the title of \"His All-Holiness\" (abbreviation HAH).\n\nIn February 2013, the Holy See announced that former Pope Benedict XVI would retain the style \"His Holiness\" after resigning and becoming Pope Emeritus.\nThe term is sometimes abbreviated to \"HH\" or \"H.H.\" when confusion with \"His/Her Highness\" is unlikely. The associated form of address is \"Your Holiness\".\n\nLater, it is also used for certain other Eastern Patriarchs, notably those who head a church or rite which recognizes neither Rome's nor Constantinople's primacy.\n\nThe English language honorific \"His Holiness\", and as female version \"Her Holiness\", has commonly been used for religious leaders from other traditions, including Buddhism (for figures such as the Dalai Lama, the Karmapa, and the Je Khenpo in Bhutan), Shinto in Ahmadiyya Islam for the Caliph and in Dawoodi Bohra sect of Ismaili Shia for esteemed office of Da'i Al-Mutlaq, Syedna.\nIt is also used in certain new religious movements such as Hare Krishnas of Hinduism.\n"}
{"id": "4781585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4781585", "title": "History of the Jews in Eindhoven", "text": "History of the Jews in Eindhoven\n\nEindhoven is a municipality and a city located in the province of Noord-Brabant in the south of the Netherlands, originally at the confluence of the Dommel and Gender brooks. The Gender has been dammed off in the post-war years, but the Dommel still runs through it.\n\nIt was not allowed for Jews to settle in the city of Eindhoven until 1772, when stadtholder Willem V summoned the city council to open its doors for Jews. Not until 1796 however were Jews totally free to settle in Eindhoven - between 1772 and 1796 the city council succeeded in summoning numerous orders to make Jewish settlement in the city incredibly difficult. Because of the prohibition for Jews to settle within the city, nearby villages contained fairly large numbers of Jews. However, from 1796 onward, the Jewish presence in Eindhoven started to grow considerably. Most of the Jews were immigrants from Germany, specifically from Cologne, Krefeld and Bad Kreuznach. They were all Ashkenazi. A synagogue was put into use. After another period of growth after 1850, the city became the seat of the chief rabbinate for the province of Noord-Brabant.\n\nMost of the Jews who settled in Eindhoven were butchers, cattle dealers, shopkeepers and hawkers. Later on, when the city started to industrialize, certain Jewish families played a significant role in the further development of the city, among them the Elias family.\n\nIn the 1930s, numbers of Jewish refugees, notably from Germany but also from Austria, Poland and Hungary, started to arrive in the city. In 1941, 84 Jewish refugees were counted by the Nazi authorities, 57 from Germany and others from Austria, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Lithuania.\n\nIn August 1940, a total of 561 Jews were counted in Eindhoven. After the invasion of the Netherlands in May 1940, only 13 Jews from Eindhoven had managed to escape to other countries, notably the United Kingdom. Among them were members of the prominent Elias family. From August 1940 to December 1941, 57 Jews left Eindhoven, but another 134 settled within its borders, bringing the number of Jews to 638 in December 1941. After 1941, another 228 Jews moved to Eindhoven, bringing the Jewish community to a height of 866 persons.\n\nBesides these full-Jews, another 123 half-Jews and 61 quarter-Jews were counted in December 1941.\n\nDuring the period 1940 - 1945, a total number of 936 Jews had lived at one moment in Eindhoven.\n\n\nAfter the liberation of the southern parts of the Netherlands in the autumn of 1944, the Central Registration Office for Jews was founded in the city of Maastricht. Under the auspices of the Red Cross, Dutch Jews who had survived the war were registered at the Bureau. It was useful for surviving Jews in finding their loved ones and Jewish friends, to see whether they were still alive and could be reached. At the end of 1944, the Bureau was moved to Eindhoven. In May 1945, some 2,500 Jews had been registered. This number grew to 21,674 in December 1945.\n\nEindhoven, which was the temporary capital of the liberated Netherlands, served as an intermediate station for hidden Jews and fled Jews who returned to the southern part of the Netherlands after that region had been liberated in September 1944. Shelters were founded in several places in Eindhoven. When the first camp survivors arrived from Germany, many Jews who had survived the Second World War through hiding or fleeing the country were faced with the cruel reality that most of their deported family members and loved ones would not return. Any hope of seeing them back was shattered when survivors of the Bergen Belsen concentration camp arrived at Eindhoven Airport in April 1945 who reported that the far, far majority of Dutch Jews had been killed in the camps.\n\nMany Jewish children survived in the Netherlands by going into hiding. By placing them with foster families, numerous children were saved while many parents eventually died in the destruction- and concentration camps. Some 1,400 Jewish children in the Netherlands thus became orphans. At the end of the war it soon became clear to members of the surviving Jewish communities that many foster families were reluctant in bringing the children back to the Jewish community - many foster parents had grown attached to the Jewish orphans, some had given them a Christian upbringing and simply refused to give them back to the Jewish community, who believed these Jewish children should stay part of the Jewish nation, especially after it became clear that the majority of Dutch Jews had not survived the Holocaust. Some Jewish families desperately tried to \"collect\" as many as Jewish orphans as they could and serve as a foster family until the children were able to (illegally) emigrate to Palestine. This was also the case in Eindhoven, where most notably Abraham de Jong and his wife gave shelter to some 12 Jewish orphans, most of whom eventually travelled to Palestine. But even these attempts by individual Jews did not prevent that in 1949, some 358 of the 1,400 Jewish orphans had been placed within a non-Jewish environment. Even up to this day, the way how the Dutch government dealt with this issue has caused pain and bitterness within the Jewish community.\n\nAfter the war, the Jewish community immediately started to reconstruct its synagogue in the \"Kerkstraat\" (Church Street), which had been severely damaged during a German bombardment on September 19, 1944. On May 22, 1947, it was again put into use. However, due to plans to broaden the \"Kerkstraat\" in 1953, the synagogue eventually had to be demolished. This happened in February 1959. On November 17, 1958, a new synagogue was inaugurated in a residential home in the \"Hendrik Casimirstraat\" (Hendrik Casimir Street) - it has served as the synagogue for the Jewish community since then. Nowadays, the community is led by M.L. Witsema (not the rabbi of the community); chairman of the community is the 40-year-old Max Loewenstein. The community consists of approximately 70 individuals, although the total number of Jews in Eindhoven and surroundings (including Israeli expats) is thought to be more than twice that number (some 200); however it is believed that several Jewish families in Eindhoven do not wish to visit the (Orthodox) synagogue in Eindhoven, but instead visit the (Progressive) synagogue in Tilburg, Aree Hanegev located approximately 35 kilometers northwest of the City. The Jewish community is part of the Orthodox \"Nederlands Israëlitisch Kerkgenootschap\" (NIK). Regular weekly services are not held at the synagogue due to the absence of enough adult Jewish men within the community to form the minyan of ten adult men every week, which is required within the Orthodox stream. During the High Holidays services are held, due to the larger number of individuals (including enough adult men) who visit the synagogue during these days.\n\nNumber of Jews in Eindhoven and surroundings:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54577396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54577396", "title": "Index of Protestantism-related articles", "text": "Index of Protestantism-related articles\n\nAlphabetical list of Protestantism-related articles on English Wikipedia. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4233568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4233568", "title": "Islam in Sierra Leone", "text": "Islam in Sierra Leone\n\nIslam is the largest and majority religion in Sierra Leone. Based on the 2015 Pew Research Center research, 78℅ of Sierra Leone's population is Muslim. And also Based on the 2015 national census, 75℅ of Sierra Leone's population is Muslim last conducted a census in 2009 and estimates there are 4,059,000 Muslims in Sierra Leone.\n\nThe vast majority of Sierra Leonean Muslims are adherent to the Sunni tradition of Islam. A significant population of about 8℅ of Sierra Leonean Muslims are adherent to the Ahmadiyya sect of Islam.\n\nThere are 18 ethnic groups in Sierra Leone, the two largest being the Temne and Mende. The Temnes are the main tribe in the north and are predominantly Muslim. At least nine of Sierra Leone's sixteen ethnic groups are predominantly Muslim.\n\nThe vast majority of Sierra Leonean Muslims are Malikite Sunni; while small minorities are Shia and Ahmadiyya. Though small in numbers, the Ahmadiyya has one of the largest Islamic institutions across country, including 186 primary and 55 secondary schools.\n\nThe majority of Sierra Leonean Muslims are adherent to Sunni Islam. Significant portions of Sierra Leonean Muslims are Ahmadis, Shia, and Non-denominational Muslims. .\n\nMost mosques in Sierra Leone are non-denominational. The largest mosque in Sierra Leone is the Freetown Central Mosque, located in the capital Freetown. Sitting Sierra Leonean Heads of State, regardless of their religions, have traditionally made occasional visits to the Freetown Central Mosque, especially during Friday jummah prayer.\n\nThe chief imam of the Freetown Central Mosque is Sheikh Ahmad Tejan Sillah, a Shia Muslim, who is also the spiritual leader of the Sierra Leone United Council of Imams. This is an Islamic organisation made up of imams from across Sierra Leone The head of the Ahmadiyya branch of Islam in Sierra Leone is sheikh Mauvi Sadeeur Rahman.\n\nIn the early 18th century Fulani and Mande-speaking tribesmen from the Fouta Djallon region of present-day Guinea converted many Temne of northern Sierra Leone to Islam. During the period of British colonization, attempts to spread Christianity were mostly ineffective.\n\nIslam continued to spread after independence in 1961; in 1960 the Muslim population was 35 percent and grew to 60 percent by 2000, and then to 71% in 2008. It is difficult for people from Sierra Leone to travel to Mecca for the Hajj, the fifth pillar of Islam, due to the distance between the two places and the cost of travel being beyond the means of most Sierra Leoneans. The current Ebola crisis has also made it impossible for them to obtain Visas to Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe recent Sierra Leone Civil War was secular in nature featuring members of Christian, Muslim, and Tribal faiths fighting on both sides of the conflict.\n\n"}
{"id": "58318047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58318047", "title": "Josef Kott and Michael Kutílek", "text": "Josef Kott and Michael Kutílek\n\nJosef Kott (born December 7, 1957 in Rakovník) and Michael Kutílek (born February 23, 1951 in Prague - March 15, 2017) were a pair of Czech spree killers who, in the course of 26 hours, murdered four people and injured one (one of the victims was murdered before the spree). Both were later sentenced to life imprisonment. The two men are considered the first spree killers in the history of the post-communist Czech Republic. Interestingly, three of these killings were committed just as the death penalty was abolished in the country on May 2, 1990.\n\nJosef Kott was born in Rakovník. He worked as a professional soldier, later working for the Federal Interior Ministry. This is where his troubles began. He returned to the army, gained the rank of lieutenant, but also started stealing, losing his rank soon afterwards. \n\nMichael Kutílek was born in Prague. As early as pre-school age, he played the piano and tennis. He was intelligent, but also robbed his classmates, later being diagnosed as a polymorphic psychopath.\n\nKott and Kutílek met in 1988 at the Minsk Prison. Kott promised Kutílek that he would show him how to make money through murder. Both men left prison in 1990 on the basis of amnesties by President Václav Havel - Kutílek being released on January 6, and Kott on March 1. Both of them returned to prison in May as murderers.\n\nOn the night of May 2, 1990, both arrived in Nýřany in a Tatra 613 limousine. Disguised as police officers, they visited a guard named Frantisek Korbel, claiming that they wanted to perform a routine check on his weapon. When he handed them the weapon and they tried to seize it on the basis of a document controversy, he accused them of not being real police officers. So Kott shot him in the head. A random witness described the two men: one in civilian and the other in a public security uniform.\n\nKott and Kutílek left after the murder towards Zbiroh, where they noticed two 16-year-old trackers named Dita Dubská and Sylvia Landová. They took them to a remote place where they tied their hands behind their backs and murdered them. Kutílek admitted that both were murdered in a \"satanic\" ritual, in which more than 57 knives had to be used.\n\nOn May 3, Kott and Kutílek drove to Prague, where they shot and robbed a taxi driver. Then, at a bar called \"The Three Barrels\" in Kařez, they shot a British truck driver. The man survived, and identified the attackers. Kott and Kutílek were soon detained.\n\nKott never admitted his guilt. Kutílek claimed that at the time of their capture, the highest possible punishment was 25 years, in addition, trying to confuse the court experts with Kott. The request failed, and both men were sentenced to life in 1995.\n\nIn 2006, Kutílek claimed he was the sole perpetrator and that Kott had nothing to do with the murders. The court dismissed his proposal, with no new evidence to re-establish the case.\n\nIn 2008, Kutílek confessed to a fifth murder he committed in the spring 1990, without Kott. The victim was a 19-year-old young man whom Kutílek had stabbed in the heart. This murder, however, did not change Kutílek's sentence.\n"}
{"id": "91141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91141", "title": "K'awiil", "text": "K'awiil\n\nK'awiil, in the Post-Classic codices corresponding to God K, is a Maya deity identified with lightning, serpents, fertility and maize. He is characterized by a zoomorphic head, with large eyes, long, upturned snout and attenuated serpent tooth. A torch, stone celt, or cigar, normally emitting smoke, comes out of his forehead, while a serpent leg represents a lightning bolt. In this way, K'awiil personifies the lightning axe both of the rain deity and of the king as depicted on his stelae.\n\nFrom the correspondence between Landa's description of the New Year rituals and the depiction of these rituals in the Dresden Codex, it can be inferred that in 16th-century Yucatán, K'awiil was called \"Bolon Dzacab\" 'Innumerable (\"bolon\" 'nine, innumerable') maternal generations', perhaps a metaphor for fertility. God K's name in the Classic period may have been the same, or similar, since the numeral 'nine' is repeatedly included in the deity's logogram.\n\nHowever, based on epigraphical considerations, the Classical god K is now most often referred to as \"K'awiil\". Hieroglyphically, the head of god K can substitute for the syllable \"k'a\" in \"k'awiil\", a word possibly meaning 'powerful one', and attested as a generic deity title in Yucatec documents. This substitution has given rise to the idea that, inversely, the title \"k'awiil\" as a whole should be considered a name specifically referring to god K.\n\nLightnings play a crucial role in tales dealing with the creation of the world and its preparation for the advent of mankind. In the cosmogony of the Popol Vuh, three Lightning deities identified with the 'Heart of the Sky' (among whom \"Huraqan\" 'One-Leg') create the earth out of the primordial sea, and people it with animals. Bolon Dzacab plays an important, if not very clear role in the cosmogonical myth related in the Book of Chilam Balam of Chumayel, where he is identified with wrapped-up seeds. The rain gods or their lightnings once opened up the Maize Mountain, making the maize seeds available to mankind. \n\nK'awiil also figures in an enigmatic Classic scene known only from ceramics (see fig.2), showing an aged ancestor or deity emerging from the serpentine foot of the lightning god, apparently to mate with a nude young woman of decidedly aristocratic allure entwined by the serpent. Not impossibly, the meaning of the scene is ritual, rather than mythological. Perhaps related to this, stucco reliefs at Palenque depict a king (and perhaps also a queen) holding a baby with a lightning celt in the forehead and a serpentine leg.\n\nThe illustrated katun cycle of the Paris Codex suggests that the presentation of the head of K'awiil – perhaps holding the promise of 'Innumerable Generations' – was part of the king's ritual inauguration and accession to the throne. K'awiil not only embodied the king's war-like lightning power, but also his power to bring agricultural prosperity to his subjects: The Lightning deity was a god of agricultural abundance, and of the maize and cacao seeds in particular. Therefore, he is often depicted with a sack of grains, sometimes accompanied by the expression \"hun yax(al) hun k'an(al)\" 'abundance'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6101438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6101438", "title": "Knight of Cups", "text": "Knight of Cups\n\nKnight of Cups is a card used in Latin-suited playing cards, including tarot decks. It is part of what tarot card readers call the \"Minor Arcana\".\n\nTarot cards are used throughout much of Europe to play tarot card games.\n\nIn English-speaking countries, where the games are largely unknown, Tarot cards came to be utilized primarily for divinatory purposes.\n\nIf the card is upright, it represents change and new excitements, particularly of a romantic nature. It can mean invitations, opportunities, and offers. The Knight of Cups is a person who is a bringer of ideas, opportunities and offers. He is constantly bored, and in constant need of stimulation, but also artistic and refined. He represents a person who is amiable, intelligent, and full of high principles, but a dreamer who can be easily persuaded or discouraged.\n\nReversed, the card represents unreliability and recklessness. It indicates fraud, false promises and trickery. It represents a person who has trouble discerning when and where the truth ends and lies begin.\n"}
{"id": "45250731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45250731", "title": "List of religious buildings in Ottawa", "text": "List of religious buildings in Ottawa\n\nThis is a list of religious buildings in Ottawa, the capital city of Canada.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49217245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49217245", "title": "Literature and Theology", "text": "Literature and Theology\n\nLiterature and Theology is a quarterly peer-reviewed indisciplinary academic journal of theology and literary studies published by Oxford University Press. It \"provides a critical non-confessional forum for both textual analysis and theoretical speculation, encouraging explorations of how religion is embedded in culture\". The journal is abstracted and indexed in the Annual Bibliography of English Language and Literature, the British Humanities Index, IBZ Internationale Bibliographie der Geistes und Sozialwissenschaftlichen Zeitschriftenliteratur, the International Review of Biblical Studies, MLA International Bibliography, the ATLA Religion Database, Religious & Theological Abstracts, several ProQuest databases, and elsewhere.\n"}
{"id": "864621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=864621", "title": "Mahram", "text": "Mahram\n\nA mahram is an unmarriageable kin with whom marriage or sexual intercourse would be considered haram, illegal in Islam, or people from whom purdah is not obligatory or legal escorts of a woman during journey longer than a day and night, 24 hours.\n\n(Note: Marriage with stepfather is prohibited only if the man has consummated with her mother) \n\nThese are considered \"mahram\" because they are mentioned in the Quran (An-Nisa 22-23):\n\n\"And marry not women whom your fathers married, except what has already passed; indeed it was shameful and most hateful, and an evil way. Forbidden to you (for marriage) are: your mothers, your daughters, your sisters, your paternal aunts, your maternal aunts, brother's daughters, sister's daughters, your foster mothers, your sisters from suckling, mothers of your spouses, your step-daughters from your those spouses you have entered into them but if you have not entered into them then there is no blame on you, spouses of your sons from your own loins and that you add two sisters except that has passed; indeed God is forgiving and merciful.\nAll of the man's female relatives mentioned in these two verses are considered his \"maharim\", because it is unlawful (\"haram\") for him to marry them, except the wife's sister mentioned last, who is not a \"mahram\" because he can marry her if he divorces her sister, or if his wife dies. The notion of \"mahram\" is reciprocal. All other relatives are considered non-\"maharim\" and they fall under the category of strangers.\n\nA woman's male \"mahrams\" fall into four categories (three categories in the strict-sense definition that does not count one's spouse). \"Mahrams\" for a man can be derived in a similar manner. \n\n\nException: an adopted brother who suckled the mother of the woman is axiomatically a mahram.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5771010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5771010", "title": "Matthieu Brouard", "text": "Matthieu Brouard\n\nMatthieu Brouard was a French theologian, mathematician, philosopher and historian, who was born in Saint-Denis near Paris in 1520, and died in Geneva on July 15, 1576. He is also known as Matthieu Brouart or Béroalde and (in Latin) as Mattheus Beroaldus. He taught Greek to the young Thomas Bodley and was the father of François Béroalde de Verville.\n\n"}
{"id": "612490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=612490", "title": "Mount Emei", "text": "Mount Emei\n\nMount Emei (; ) is a mountain in Sichuan Province, China, and is one of the Four Sacred Buddhist Mountains of China. Mt. Emei sits at the western rim of the Sichuan Basin. The mountains west of it are known as Daxiangling.\nA large surrounding area of countryside is geologically known as the Permian Emeishan Large Igneous Province, a large igneous province generated by the Emeishan Traps volcanic eruptions during the Permian Period. At , Mt. Emei is the highest of the Four Sacred Buddhist Mountains of China.\n\nAdministratively, Mt. Emei is located near the county-level city of the same name (Emeishan City), which is in turn part of the prefecture-level city of Leshan. It was made a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1996.\n\nMount Emei is one of the Four Sacred Buddhist Mountains of China, and is traditionally regarded as the bodhimaṇḍa, or place of enlightenment, of the bodhisattva Samantabhadra. Samantabhadra is known in Mandarin as Pǔxián Púsà ().\n\nSources of the 16th and 17th centuries allude to the practice of martial arts in the monasteries of Mount Emei made the earliest extant reference to the Shaolin Monastery as Chinese boxing's place of origin.\n\nThis is the location of the first Buddhist temple built in China in the 1st century CE.\nThe site has seventy-six Buddhist monasteries of the Ming and Qing period, most of them located near the mountain top. The monasteries demonstrate a flexible architectural style that adapts to the landscape. Some, such as the halls of Baoguosi, are built on terraces of varying levels, while others, including the structures of Leiyinsi, are on raised stilts. Here the fixed plans of Buddhist monasteries of earlier periods were modified or ignored in order to make full use of the natural scenery. The buildings of Qingyinge are laid out in an irregular plot on the narrow piece of land between the Black Dragon River and the White Dragon River. The site is large and the winding footpath is , taking several days to walk.\n\nCable cars ease the ascent to the two temples at Jinding (3,077 m), an hour's hike from the mountain's peak.\n\nThe summit of Mount Emei has an alpine subarctic climate (Köppen \"Dwc\"), with long, cold (but not severely so) winters, and short, cool summers. The monthly 24-hour average temperature ranges from in January to in July, and the annual mean is . Precipitation is common year-round (occurring on more than 250 days), but due to the influence of the monsoon, rainfall is especially heavy in summer, and more than 70% of the annual total occurs from June to September.\nVisitors to Mount Emei will likely see dozens of Tibetan macaques who can often be viewed taking food from tourists. Local merchants sell nuts for tourists to feed the monkeys. Other featured animals includes \"Rana adenopleura\", \"Vibrissaphora liui\" and \"Pheretima praepinguis\"\n\nMount Emei is known for its high level of endemism and approximately 200 plant species in various plant families have been described from this mountain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6272980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6272980", "title": "Nador (caste)", "text": "Nador (caste)\n\nNador is the name of a caste from Karnataka, India They are found primarily in Uttara Kannada district of Karnataka. They speak Kannada.\n"}
{"id": "33515991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33515991", "title": "Odia Hindu wedding", "text": "Odia Hindu wedding\n\nAn Odia Hindu wedding, or \"bahaghara\" (\"\"), is a wedding ceremony performed by Odia Hindu people in the Indian state of Odisha. There are subtle differences in the rites observed by different castes. In the Odia marriage rituals mother of the bridegroom does not take part in the ceremony. The Utkala Brahmins have their weddings only in the daytime, preferably mid day or mornings, while the other caste weddings are done during the evening or night. There is the custom of sending betel nuts to family friends for inviting them to the marriage. The first invitation is sent to Jagannath as a respect to the lord. Marriages in Odisha are mostly fixed and arranged by the parents. Marriages for serving or capturing is not common. In the Odia community widow remarriage is allowed in some lower caste, in this case the younger brother is allowed to marry the deceased brother's wife. The marriage happens in three major rituals, \"Nirbandha\" (fixing the marriage), \"Bahaghara\" (wedding) and \"Chauthi/Chaturthi\" (consummation). A marriage is not considered complete or valid until consummation. These rituals are performed either at the \"Duara\" (bride's house) or \"Tola kania\"s house. (Bridegroom's residence).\n\nThe wedding is arranged by the elders of both the family. The arrangement depends on the family values and traditions. Some families consider the horoscope matching mandatory. The better the match, the happier will be the couples married life. However, the marriage largely depends on the bride and groom's mutual acceptance to each other and to both the families.\n\nOnce the marriage alliance is fixed, the ceremony starts up with \"Nirbandha\" or \"Lagna dharaa\" (\"\" or \"ଲଗ୍ନଧରା\"), the engagement ceremony. The fathers of the bride and groom make a vow \" Sankalpa\" by holding sacred articles to get their children wed to each other and the whole ritual happens either in the bride's house or a temple in the presence of the bridegroom and bride. This is considered as a commitment signal or \"Vaak Nischaya\" to proceed with marriage arrangements, which is accompanied with exchange of gifts between both families for bride and bridegroom.\n\nJwaiñ anukuḷa ceremony marks the initiation of marriage rituals which happens in the bridegroom's house. This is followed by the distribution of Nimantraṇa patra (invitation cards).\n\n\"Deva Nimantrana\": Nimantrana or Invitation marks the public announcement of the marriage function. As per Odia custom, the first card is sent to the family divinity. Usually the first card is placed before Lord Jagannath\n\n\"Moula Nimantrana\": The second invitation goes to the bride and groom's maternal uncle. This is call Moula Nimantrana. This has to go with some family member in person along with beetel nuts. Uncle or \"Mamu\" is one of the most respectable persons in events like marriages. Invitations can now be distributed among friends and relatives.\n\n\"Jwaiñ Nimantrana\": Next to \"Mamu\", \"Jwaiñ\" or son-in-law of the family is the most respectable invitee in marriages. In \"Odia Sanskruti\" and probably many other Indian customs, the \"Jwain Nimantrana\" ritual has an important significance. The Bride side father and other important person from family go to groom house with \"Sweekar\" and invite the groom. As per Odia rituals, no female should accompany them for this invite. Also, There is a strong religious reason for the same:\n\nAs per Hindu Mythology, when \"Dakshya Prajapati\" arranged for a great Yajna (\"Hawan\"), he intentionally didn't invite his son-in-law \"Lord Shiva\". Wanting to visit her parents, relatives and childhood friends, Sati sought to rationalize this omission. She reasoned within herself that her parents had neglected to make a formal invitation to them only because within family, such formality was unnecessary; certainly, she needed no invitation to visit her own mother and would go anyway. So, despite dissuasion from Shiva.. Sati wanted to go. So finally Shiva let her go with his ganas. However, upon reaching there within no time Sati realized this mean intention of his father to offend Shiva. Sati was very upset by thinking herself as the cause of this dishonour to her husband. She was consumed by rage against her father and loathing for his mentality. Unable to bear this disrespect to her husband, Sati invoked her yogic powers and immolated herself. Shiva sensed this catastrophe, and his rage was incomparable. He loved Sati more than anything. He devastated the \"Yajna\" and supposedly slapped \"Dakshya Prajapati\" that Dakshya was be-headed by Shiva's stroke. Dakshya's head fell in the Yajna Agni. (later upon God's request, Shiva gave rebirth to Dakshya by replacing a goat head). Shiva was then with rage into Tandava. Learning a lesson from this, the significance of \"Jwain Nimantrana\" came into effect, so that no one else should ever think of insulting the son-in-law of a family in ceremonies.\n\nThe ceremony of Mangana is done one day before marriage mostly during afternoon.During 'mangana' people bless the bride and groom and then anointing turmeric paste on her body followed by the bride's ceremonial bath where turmeric paste (haḷadi baṭā) is put on her body by seven un-widowed women.Similarly the groom also undergoes turmeric anointment by his sister in law whose husband is alive.\n\nIt is a ceremony, which marks the stoking of the fire. The uncooked pulses are ground with help of mortar and pestle and the paste is sent for preparing Dahl, Pitha etc.\n\nDiañ manguḷā puja is conducted at the gramadevati's temple. \"Baarikiyani\" (wife of a barber) offers the bride's bangles, toe ring, sindura and sari to the Goddess. During the Diañ mangaḷā Puja prayers are offered to the deity of a temple. The bridal saree, toe rings, shanka Pola and sindura (Vermilion are offered before the Lord by the barber and the blessings of the Gods invoked for a long and happy married life.Later the Father of groom and bride invoke each other's ancestors with a ritual called \"Nandimukha\".\n\nThe groom along with his marriage procession arrives at the wedding venue with a procession. This is known as Barajatri. barajātri or Varaanugamana is the ceremonial procession when the groom and his family members and friends arrive at the wedding mandap amid great pomp and magnificence. Upon arrival of the baraat the groom is greeted with aarti or tilak followed by washing the feet of groom with tender coconut water and offering of curd mixed with honey and ghee. The bride is decorated with fine traditional jewelry. Odia brides are traditionally dressed in yellow sarees with red borders called as \" Boula Patta\" for the wedding. However, these days, red, pink and orange outfits are also common.\n\nIn the Baadua Pani Gadhua custom, the girl's side informs the bride that the baraat has come. Thereafter, arrangements are made for her holy bath. The bride is informed of the groom's arrival and then she takes another ceremonial bath called Baadua Pani Gadhua.\n\nThe Odia bridegroom (\"bara\" or \"\") wears dhoti and Panjabi or sometimes drapes a white silk cloth around known as the \"jorḍa (ଜୋଡ଼)\". In the post-wedding reception, the groom wears formal attire, traditional Odia clothing or western. Dhoti is worn, or rather draped around, the waist in a particular pattern. Generally a white or cream colored dhoti is worn. A scarf like cloth called \"uttariya\" (\") is put on left side of the shoulder. While the wedding rituals are on, the groom wears the \"jorḍa ()\", a white colored silk cloth draped around the bare body of the groom.\n\nThe bride (\"kaniañ\" or \"\") in Odisha wears a traditional yellow Saree or ଶାଢ଼ୀ with red borders. She is adorned with fine gold jewelry and she should compulsoryly wear shanka Pola (white and red bangles )in both hands. The bride's mother, female relatives and her friends decorate the bride.\n\nThere are a variety of dresses and costumes, which are worn by the bride and groom on special events like a wedding. Bridal saris are usually made of silk, cotton, chiffon and so on.\n\nTraditional Odia saris used are:\nBride's complexion is taken into consideration while choosing the saris.\n\nA number of rituals lace the wedding day whilst making it a day far apart from the other three sixty-four days.\n\nThe wedding ritual begins with the Kanyādana ceremony which is held on the vivaha vedi. This structure is decorated with lots of flowers and leaves. This is the traditional ritual of handing over the daughter to the groom. The customary fire is lit and the priests chant the mantras. Seven heaps of rice grain symbolizing the seven hills and the saptakulaparwata are worshipped during the \"Saptapadi\" rite. The couple takes seven rounds around the fire symbolizing the sacred fire as the witness for the marriage. In this custom, the bride's father gives his dear daughter's hand to the groom with the promise that going forward bridegroom will take care of her. This ritual called \"Hata Ganthi\" or \"Pani Grahana\" onwards the bride considers herself as member of her husband's family instead. That's why bride is called \"duhita\" (), meaning who is grown up in two families to do good for them at respective phase i.e. before marriage bride considers her parental family as her home and is considered auspicious to them. Similarly after marriage the bride is loyal to her husband's family and is treated auspicious as the daughter-in-law () of her new family. In fact after kanyadaan the bride steps out of her parental home to spend the rest of her life in her husband's family. Hence, her husband's family () has much more significance to an Odia bride compared to her parental home where she lived her initial years of life only. Until recently, before the concept of divorce came into Indian society, it was considered that only death may separate a bride from her in-laws home which is in fact her true own home after marriage.\n\nDuring hāta ganṭhi, the bridegroom takes seven rounds around the holy fire of homa, to the chant of mantras and slokas. A garland made of mango leaves which is considered as a holy symbol is bound by keeping the bride's hand along with bride groom's hand. 'Laja' or 'Khai' ()(puffed rice), a symbol of prosperity is offered to the fire which is called \"khaiporḍā\" (burning \"khai\") considering the bride as an avatar of Laxmi who brings wealth and prosperity to the new home. 'Khai' is tossed onto the path of the new wed while they enter the home, the new bride tilts a vessel filled with rice with her right feet making the rice spills over the ground to make a way to her new home.\n\nThe bride's brother stands behind the couple while the couple faces each other. The bride placed her hands on the grooms and her brother puts the puffed rice into them. Together they offer this Laja as 'ahuti' or sacrifice to the God of fire amidst the chanting of mantras. There is also a custom of bride's brother gives a punch on the back of the bridegroom which is called \"Saḷā bidhā\" (ଶଳା ବିଧା, Saḷā means wife's brother and bidhā means punch). Finally the knot is opened by younger sister of the bride or Shaali. The groom and bride go to see the pole star Polaris. The groom applies Sindura on the hair parting of bride and Shankha on arms (the vermilion powder and bangles ) which is called \" Sinduradaan\".\n\nKaurḍi kheḷa (\"Literally\" Kaudi-playing, ) is a custom of playing Kaurḍi/ Kauri, a white colored shining shell which is played by the newlywed couple after the marriage ceremony. Kaurḍi/kauri is believed to be bringing wealth, harmony and prosperity to the family. The bridegroom first holds a Kauḍi in his fist and the bride tries to break the fist and get it by two of her hands. In the next round the bride make a tight fist with both of her hands with the Kaurḍi inside and the bridegroom tries to open her hand with only one hand. Rounds of such games go on, the sisters and other younger members of the bride's family carry this custom where one elder lady from the bride's family assumes the role of judge.\n\nSāsu dahi pakhāḷa khiā () is a custom of the bride's mother feeding food to her new son-in-law. After the Kauḍi kheḷa is over the bride's mother makes the bridegroom sits on her lap feeds him with curd-Pakhāḷa with baigaṇa poḍā. (Spiced eggplant mesh). After this both the bride and bridegroom play a certain game to test the strength and intelligence of the groom.\n\nBāhunā () is a tradition of mourning with rhythmic songs which includes the story of how the bride's mother has taken pains of giving birth to her, nortured her with care and finally her departure from her own home to make a new house. Elderly women of the house (grandma, father's sisters, mother's sisters) also join mourning with the bride's mother. These songs are called Bahunā gita (ବାହୁନା ଗୀତ), composed by anonymous poets and been used as a literary tradition for years.\n\nLajā homa is the conclusion of the wedding. The newly wed couple arrives at the new home where the groom's family gives her a ceremonial welcome called Gruhaprabesa. The bride, along with her husband enters her new home i.e. her in-laws place, where the groom's family gives them a warm welcome. This is known as Gruhaprabesa.\n\nOn fourth day after marriage bride and bride groom meet each other. This day is called 'Chauṭhi' (means the fourth day) and the night is called \"Bāsara rāti\" \"()\" or \"Chauṭhi rati\" \"()\". During the day, esp. in the evening puja and homa are practiced which includes burning a coconut to make it roasted inside. A room along with bed is decorated with bright fragrant flowers like Rajanigandha. This is the night of consummation. The bride glows a bāsara dipa alongside the bed as a symbol of long lasting glowing relationship. The couples offered to eat the roasted coconut (charu) from the homa during the night. There is also a tradition of the bride carrying a glass of kesara dudha (saffron milk) to the bridegroom. This ritual is also commonly known as Suhag Raat in Indian tradition. This is especially important because, marriage is in fact not considered complete or valid until consummation.\n\nThe bride and the bridegroom are invited to the bride's house on the eighth day after the wedding known as Asṭa mangaḷā. Traditional Odia cuisine is prepared and served for the newly married couple.\n\nThe bride receives saries and jewellery from the bridegroom. Sankha (conch shell) is blown along with a specific sound called \"huḷu-huḷi\" by placing the tongue on the roof of the mouth with repeated opening and closing of mouth.\n\n"}
{"id": "17873106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17873106", "title": "Peter Hammerschlag", "text": "Peter Hammerschlag\n\nPeter Hammerschlag (27 June 1902, Alsergrund, Vienna 1942, Auschwitz concentration camp) was an Austrian writer, surrealist poet, actor, Kabarett artist and graphic artist. He was known for his cabarets, which continue to influence the arts in Austria today, and in 2007, but was honoured on the Walk of Fame of Cabaret. Hammerschlag was granted an exit permit to leave Austria for Argentina in September 1941, he was, however, unable to obtain a passport through any channels. Later that year he was put into a forced labour camp, and in 1942, he died in the Auschwitz concentration camp. His work has been on display at the City of Vienna's Jewish Museum.\n"}
{"id": "4657154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4657154", "title": "Punjabi Hindus", "text": "Punjabi Hindus\n\nPunjabi Hindus are a group of people that follow Hinduism and have their roots and origin in the Punjab region of the Indian Subcontinent. In India, most Punjabi Hindus are concentrated in the state of Punjab and the union territory of Chandigarh, with additional populations in parts of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi and some part of Rajasthan and Gujarat. They also have significant presence in Jammu, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra.\n\nHinduism has been prevalent in Punjab since before the arrival of Islam and birth of Sikhism there. Punjabi Hindus can trace their roots from the time of the ancient Vedas. Many modern day cities in Indian Punjab and Pakistani Punjab are still named from that period like Lahore, Jalandhar, and Chandigarh. Examples of Punjabi Hindus include the former Prime ministers of India I. K. Gujral and Gulzari Lal Nanda, the former Indian cricketer Kapil Dev, scientist Hargobind Khorana, actress Priyanka Chopra and Indian stand-up comedians Kapil Sharma, Chandan Prabhakar, Bharti, Rajiv Thakur, Sudesh Lehri and Sunil Grover. Pollywood industry also has many prominent faces like Parmish Verma, Harish Verma, B.N.Sharma\n\nInfluential Sikh figures such as Guru Nanak, Banda Singh Bahadur, and Bhai Mati Das, originated from Punjabi Hindu families and many Punjabi Hindus converted to Sikhism when Punjab was under the rule of the Mughals.\n\nMost Hindus in the Punjab follow Sanatana Dharma, which in Sanskrit means the eternal path. Hinduism in Punjab, like in many other parts of India, has adapted over time and has become a synthesis of culture and history. Hinduism in Punjab centers on the concept of connecting with ones own \"self energy\" or \"Paramātmā\". To reach ones own \"Paramātmā\", Hinduism emphasizes to use \"Dharma\" to truthfully nurture and purify the soul, or \"Atma\". Hindus do this while acknowledging the concept of \"Brahman\" or \"external energy\", which is a metaphysical concept that is believed to be the single binding unity behind diversity in all that exists in the universe. In Punjab, Hindus revere ancient texts that narrate stories of deities (Devas and Devis) that had reached their highest selves (\"Paramātmā\" or \"supreme souls\"), and so became admired and respected \"Bhagavans\" who are honored for their roles in history as the upholders of the principles of Dharma. Hindus believe that a supreme \"Bhagavan\" manifests itself through these Devas and Devis. Major deities worshipped include Rama and Sita from the Ramayana, Krishna and Radha from the Mahabharata, as well as the Trimurti and Tridevi of Shiva and Parvati, Vishnu and Lakshmi, and Brahma and Sarasvati, along with other prominent deities such as Durga Mataji, Ganesha and Hanuman. \n\nAs Hindus believe that \"Dharma\" is universal and other paths, religious and spiritual traditions are also equally able to nurture one's \"Atma\" or \"inner being\", it is believed any being is able to reach \"Paramātmā\" in their own unique way either through Bhagavan or through devotion to their own personal Ishvara Bhagavan. Punjabi Hindus routinely also pay respects to Sikh Gurus and their dharmic teachings.\n\nSanatan Dharma Sabha was founded in the Punjab in late 19th century to promote traditional Hinduism. It sent scholars overseas and became a major force in some of the overseas Hindu communities. In January 1933 the session of the All-India Sanatan Dharma Sabha, presided over by Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya.\n\nPunjab is differentiated by the fact that it has the highest population of dalits in India at 31.9%. In some areas of Punjab like Doaba it is as high as 40-50%. Half of Punjabi dalits are Ravidassias with 26.2% Chamar and 14.9% Ad Dharmi of state Scheduled Caste (Dalit) populations. Other Bulk group of is large number of Balmikis at 11.2 percent and Mazhabi Sikhs at 31.6 percent of state Scheduled Caste (Dalit) populations. These two bulk groups are 86.8 percent of total Dalits (Scheduled Castes) of Punjab.\n\nAn important sect amongst Punjabi Hindus is the Arya Samaj. It was founded by Swami Dayananda (born in modern-day Gujarat) in 1875 in Bombay and became popular amongst Hindus in the Punjab and U.P. Arya Samajists hold the Vedic religion to be the only true religion and as such, regard the Vedas as their only religious books, but also regard Upnishad, Darshan Shastras and some other books written by enlightened Rishis, on the condition that the text in these should not be contradictory to Vedas. On this basis Arya Samaj rejected some of the Hindu scriptures like Purana and some other scriptures which, according to Arya Samaj, are against the Vedas. The Arya Samaj also pleads for Shuddhi or the re-conversion into Hinduism of those Hindus who were converted to other religions. The places of worship of the Arya Samajists are different from those of the Sanatan Dharmis and have no idols. Worship includes performing yajnas, reciting mantras and seeking spiritual solace by listening to religious discourses.\n\nProminent Indian Nationalists from Punjab such as Lala Lajpat Rai belonged to Arya Samaj and were active in propagating the message of Samaj. During the early part of the 20th century, the Samaj or organizations inspired by it such as Jat Pat Todak Mandal were active in campaigning against caste discrimination. Other activities the samaj engaged in was that of widow remarriage and women's education. When the Hindu Nationalist group, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh started expanding in Northern India in the 1930s,they found enthusiasm among the Arya Samajist of Punjab \n\nThe Samaj is also present in countries such as Guyana, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, Fiji, Australia, South Africa, Kenya, Mauritius and other countries where a significant Hindu diaspora is present. Immigrants to Canada from East Africa (mainly Punjabi) and the Caribbean countries (originally from UP and Bihar) respectively form separate Arya Samaj communities in many Canadian cities including Toronto. Most major metropolitan areas of United States have chapters of Arya Samaj.\n\nThe Radhaswami sect has its headquarters at the town of Beas and is popular amongst Punjabi Hindus. Like the Radhaswamis too are a transitional sect between Hinduism and Sikhism.\n\nDev Samajis, an offshoot of Brahmo Samaj, are rationalists. Their headquarters is at Moga. Their activities are mostly confined to the moral fields. As such Dev Samajists have not attained much popularity. In all other respects the Dev Samajists are not different from the other Hindus.\n\nA large segment of Punjabis who are now categorised as Hindus or who identify themselves as Punjabi Hindus, continue to live out heterogeneous religious practice that includes spiritual kinship with Sikhism. This not only includes veneration of the Sikh Gurus in private practice, but also visit to Sikh Gurdwaras as well as Hindu temples. Some Punjabi Hindus visit Jain temples and Jain munis.\n\nThis is evident from the continuing propensity to conduct important life cycle ceremonies such as on marriage or death by any of the Hindu or Sikh rites. This is especially true for the Khatri and Arora communities, and even more so among the Kukhran tribe emanating from West Punjab, an area now in Pakistan.\n\nThis predilection for heterogeneous religious affiliation has continued, in spite of decades of aggressive identity purification efforts by the forces of identity politics in the Punjab.\n\nPunjabi Hindus suffered a great deal due to partition of Punjab in 1947. They were a minority in areas of Pakistan. Many of the Hindus/Sikhs had to move to East Punjab and Muslims to West Punjab. Estimates of a million people or more were killed in the riots following the partition and subsequent independence of Pakistan and later India from British colonial rule. Most of the Punjabi Hindus who moved from West Punjab settled in the areas which are now Indian state of Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Western UP, and even as far as Mumbai and Calcutta.\n\nSince Partition, Sikh leaders and Sikh parties demanded a \"Punjabi Suba\" (Punjabi Province) in North India. They wanted to carve out a state in Northern India where Punjabi was the most predominant language, since Punjab had been the most prominent province in North India before the partition, with most of the province now in Pakistan.\n\nBecause the Punjabi Hindus stated Hindi as their mother tongue (due to fear of sikh hegemony as Punjabi Hindus have Punjabi as their first language) in the censuses of 1951 and 1961, after the trifurcation, many areas being mostly Punjabi Hindu were given to Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, which made Punjab a Sikh-majority state in India.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20742177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20742177", "title": "Qantara.de", "text": "Qantara.de\n\nQantara.de ( \"qanṭarah\", meaning \"bridge\") is an Internet portal in German, English, and Arabic, designed to promote intercultural dialogue between the Western and Islamic worlds.\n\nThe portal was founded on the initiative of the German Foreign Office, in reaction to the crisis ridden developments in relations to Islamic cultures in the wake of the shock of the September 11 attacks in the USA. Online since March 2003, the platform is jointly run by the German Federal Agency for Civic Education (bpb), Germany’s international broadcaster Deutsche Welle (DW), the Goethe-Institut (GI) and the German Institute for Foreign Cultural Relations (ifa), and is funded by the foreign office. The task of the joint dialogue project is to promote understanding between the various cultures, with the aim of combating ignorance and prejudice through knowledge.\n\nThe editorial team works to publish writing by Western and Islamic authors who seek open and respectful discussion of both commonalities and controversial subjects. These have included diverse contributors, like the Egyptian literary scholar Nasr Hamid Abu Zaid, the German former diplomat and Muslim Murad Hofmann, the Islam theologian Halima Krausen, the conflict researcher Heiner Bielefeldt and the physicist Ernst Ulrich von Weizsäcker.\n"}
{"id": "2912337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2912337", "title": "R. A. Torrey", "text": "R. A. Torrey\n\nReuben Archer Torrey (28 January 1856 – 26 October 1928) was an American evangelist, pastor, educator, and writer.\n\nTorrey was born in Hoboken, New Jersey, on 28 January 1856. He graduated from Yale University in 1875 and Yale Divinity School in 1878. Following graduation, Torrey became a Congregational minister in Garrettsville, Ohio, in 1878. The following year, he married Clara Smith, and the Torreys had five children.\n\nAfter further studies in theology at Leipzig University and Erlangen University in 1882–1883, Torrey joined Dwight L. Moody in his evangelistic work in Chicago in 1889, and became superintendent of the Bible Institute of the Chicago Evangelization Society (now Moody Bible Institute). Five years later, he became pastor of the Chicago Avenue Church (now the Moody Church) in 1894.\nIn 1898, Torrey served as a chaplain with the YMCA at Camp Chicamauga during the Spanish–American War. Later, during World War I, he performed similar service at Camp Bowie (a POW camp in Texas) and Camp Kearny.\n\nIn 1902–1903, he preached in nearly every part of the English-speaking world and with song leader Charles McCallon Alexander conducted revival services in Great Britain from 1903 to 1905. During this period, he also visited China, Japan, Australia, and India. Torrey conducted a similar campaign in American and Canadian cities in 1906–1907. Throughout these campaigns, Torrey used a meeting style that he borrowed from Moody's campaigns of the 1870s. In 1907, he accepted an honorary doctorate from Wheaton College. \n\nIn 1912, Torrey was persuaded to build another institution like Moody Bible Institute, and from 1912 to 1924, he served as Dean of the Bible Institute of Los Angeles (now Biola University) and contributed to the BIOLA publication, \"The King's Business\". Beginning in 1915, he served as the first pastor of the Church of the Open Door, Los Angeles. Torrey was one of the three editors of \"The Fundamentals\", a 12-volume series that gave its name to what came to be called \"fundamentalism\". \n\nTorrey held his last evangelistic meeting in Florida in 1927, additional meetings being canceled because of his failing health. He died at home in Asheville, North Carolina, on October 26, 1928, having preached throughout the world and written more than 40 books. \n\nTorrey-Gray Auditorium, the main auditorium at Moody, was named for Torrey and his successor, James M. Gray. At Biola, the Torrey Honors Institute honors him, as does the university's annual Bible conference.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57854802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57854802", "title": "Rudolf Hamburger", "text": "Rudolf Hamburger\n\nRudolf Hamburger (3 May 1903 – 1 December 1980) was a German Bauhaus-inspired architect. Many of his most important commissions were undertaken in Shanghai where he lived and worked between 1930 and 1936. Late in 1930 his wife was recruited to work for Soviet intelligence: he supported her espionage related activities in various practical ways till their divorce in 1939, after which he became involved with spying for the Soviets on his own account.\n\nBy 1943 he had ended up in Tehran where British forces were present in large numbers. Imprisoned successively by American forces and British forces, when he managed to get away he made for the Soviet Union in order to seek asylum. Three days after arriving in Moscow he was arrested. He spent the next ten years in a succession of labour camps, and after a further two years in \"internal exile\" was able to leave the Soviet Union in 1955. He moved to Dresden and resumed his architectural career.\n\nRudolf Hamburger is known to students of espionage as the first husband of Ursula Kuczynski, celebrated in some quarters as \"Stalin's best female spy\" (\"Stalins beste Spionin\").\n\nRodolf Hamburger was born at Landeshut, a small town on the southern edge of Lower Silesia. He was the second of his parents' three recorded children, all of them boys. In 1890 his father, Max Hamburger (1868-1952), had inherited from an uncle one of the several textile mills in the town. The administration offices and storage facilities were adjacent to the family home. During the 1920s the business employed 850 people. Max Hamburger was for many years chairman of the local chamber of commerce and, unusually for his class, a committed activist in liberal politics. Else Gradenwitz, the boy's mother, was a banker's daughter: she looked out for the women working in the factory and provided a kindergarten for their children. The grandparents all lived in Breslau (as Wrocław was known at that time) and vacation stays in the city were frequent. In 1908, inspired by the in Essen, the firm had built a model housing estate (\"Siedlung\") for the workers. Hamburger would describe his upbringing as Liberal Jewish. He was encouraged, as a child, to play with the children of the workers at the factory and, to the extent that he was politically engaged, he shared his father's progressive tendencies. Many years later, after he died, an English friend would describe Rudolf Hamburger as \"the last Victorian communist\".\n\nRudolf Hamburger was taught to sketch by Friederich Iwan, a local artist, while he was still a boy. He successfully completed his schooling and moved to Munich to study architecture in 1922. The assassination of the Foreign Minister, Walter Rathenau, that year came as a particular blow. Rathenau had been a close personal friend of his father's: the shocking event and the rising tide of right-wing extremism, which was particularly hard to miss in Munich, demonstrated the fragility of the new liberal-democratic political order. Contemporary architects by whom he was particularly influenced during his two years in the Bavarian capital included Theodor Fischer (1863–1938), Gabriel von Seidl and German Bestelmeyer (1874–1942). He moved to Dresden in 1924 where he studied for around a year, and met , a fellow trainee architect who became a close friend. Their careers would frequently become entwined during the decades that followed. \n\nIn 1925 Hamburger and Paulick moved on to the Technical University of Berlin, where they shared lodgings. They were taught by Hans Poelzig, whom the students idolised. Poelzig renounced traditional teaching methods, instead holding classes in his studios at the Arts Academy, and giving his students tasks from his current commissions. Fellow students, as Hamburger later recalled, included alongside the (relatively) conventional German students, a Croiatian, an Austrian aristocrat, a Japanese who designed interiors in meticulously co-ordinated pastel shades, an anarchist and a Hungarian girl with a completely unjustified belief in her own genius. Often the group round his table also included a tall polite young man, a reticent and likeable youth keen, like the others, to master the architect's craft. The students, and almost everyone else, would learn more about Albert Speer after 1933. Rudolf Hamburger emerged with a degree in 1927.\n\nDuring 1926, while a student in Berlin, Rudolf Hamburger met Ursula Kuczynski, a qualified bookshop assistant. An unusual bookshop assistant, his new friend was also one of the six children of the distinguished demographer René Kuczynski. She had joined the Communist Party in May 1926 when she was just 19. Ursula was deeply committed politically and possessed of a formidable intellect. The two became friends and then lovers. They married in Berlin in 1929.\n\nHamburger stayed in Berlin afer graduating, taking a job as a construction manager with the Prussian Building and Finance directorate (\"Preußischen Bau- und Finanzdirektion\"). The job was not particularly stellar, but offered the possibility of taking more exams in order to become certified as a \"master builder\". In 1928 he took a job with Marie Frommer. There are suggestions that while with Frommer he probably worked on the \"Hotel Villa\" project in Berlin-Wilmersdorf. In October 1928 he became a at the Arts Academy studios with his former professor, Hans Poelzig. While there, till March 1930 he worked on the administrative building under construction for I.G.Farben at Frankfurt. There was also time for personal projects which earned him very little money, but nevertheless helped win recognition: he set up the \"Red Bookshop\" near the Görlitz Station for a friend of Ursula's.\nGetting to know during his year in Dresden had brought Rudolf Hamburger into contact with social democratic ideas. In Berlin his friendship with Ursula introduced him to leftist intellectual circles, and he became familiar with the aspirations of those who believed in a new better society. He found himself drifting away from the conservatism of others in the architectural profession, and drawn towards the optimistic radical pacifist idealism represented by artists such as Käthe Kollwitz. He kept his distance from day-to-day political activism. He joined no political party. But he did join \"Red Aid\", a workers' welfare organisation with close links to the Communist Party. Another member was Ursula's father, René Kuczynski. Hamburger began to read Marx and Engels. \"I was no longer just an observer. I grasped the nature of the class-based social structure and drew from that the obligation to participate in class struggle. But I still found it difficult to take the next step, to political activism. I was still too strongly drawn to my family's middle class life, with the old prejudices and habits ... Above all I was alienated by the hostile attitude that the Communist Party displayed towards the SPD\" (\"Ich wurde nicht nur Betrachter, sondern erfasste das Wesen der Klassengesellschaft und die Verpflichtung, daraus die Konsequenz des Klassenkampfes zu ziehen. Der Schritt zur Aktivität fiel mir dennoch schwer. Zu stark war ich noch dem bürgerlichen Leben durch Elternhaus, alte Vorurteile und Gewohnheiten verbunden. ... Vor allem befremdete mich die feindliche Haltung der KPD gegen die SPD\").\n\nFrom a western perspective, in 1930 Shanghai was seen as a dynamic capitalist enclave surrounded by a feudal society. That offered opportunities for foreign entrepreneurs. The authorities were keen to attract investment: labour was abundant and inexpensive. The huge disparities of wealth and poverty also created a febrile political environment. It was in Shanghai that the Chinese Communist Party had been founded in 1921. The economy was hugely dynamic. The political context was defined by massive tensions. The community of expatriates from the west included White Russian émigrés escaping the consequences of the Russian Civil War who would be joined, after 1933, by large numbers of German refugees forced to leave their homeland by Nazi race policies. There were international businessmen driven by conventional commercial and colonialist motives. All the time, there was a Chinese nationalist government under Chiang Kai-shek keen to re-assert control over Shanghai. The creation by the government of the \"Greater Shanghai\" municipality on 14 July 1927, covering 828,000 hectares, had been a first step in that direction, even though it had been necessary to exclude from it the territory of the foreign concessions. In 1930 Shanghai was the focus of an on-going power struggle between the Chinese authorities and international business, backed by the \"great powers\", America, Britain, France and, increasingly, Japan.\n\nDuring the first half of 1930 Rudolf Hamburger responded to a job advertisement placed in a local Berlin newspaper by the Shanghai Municipal Council (SMC). His application was successful and in July 1930, armed with a contract to work as an architect with the SMC, he emigrated with his wife to Shanghai. Long distance travel was typically undertaken by sea during this period, but the Hamburgers travelled by train via Moscow and across Siberia to Manchuria, where they switched to a ship for the final part of the journey. One source indicates that this slightly unconventional route was chosen in order to save money, since the SMC had refused to pay their travel expenses. Shortly before they left Berlin Ursula's parents organised a dinner party to which they invited Hellmut Wilhelm, the son of a celebrated (but recently deceased) \"China expert\". Wilhelm was able to brief them on some of the basics of living and working in China. It is nevertheless more than possible that the contemporary social and political realities of the situation in Shanghai, the extent to which the city had become a cultural melting pot, and indeed the way in which it had become a magnet for international espionage, only became apparent to the couple once they arrived in their new home-city.\n\nShanghai was riding a construction boom in which Rudolf Hamburger was able to participate fully. He found his SMC employment better paid than his private work, and he found that his monthly salary was 50 Taels higher than that of other architects employed by the Public Works Department. This was explained as compensation for the fact that he had been obliged to pay his own travel costs for the passage to China. However, when in April 1933 he opted to extend his contract, the differential was maintained although the differing treatment of those inter-continental travel costs had by that time been more than expunged. The renewed contract kicked in in August 1933 after which Hamburger was the second best architect employed by the council. Only C.H.Stableford, his department head, was paid more. This, according to his wife, may have reflected the international reputation of modernist German architecture at the time. (Most of his colleague in the architecture department were from England.) Hamburger's own approach was strongly influenced by his old teacher, Hans Poelzig.\n\nIn Shanghai, Rudolf Hamburger produced four large buildings and several smaller ones. There were also a very large number of interior designs and examples of furniture design. The interiors were in part produced by the firm he set up and ran in parallel with his work for the council, \"The Modern Home\". In addition to the buildings for which he is known to have been directly responsible, scholars detect Hamburger's influence in other contemporary developments, such as the Chengdu Road police station.\n\nHis first major building, which he was permitted to work \"quite independently\", was a nine storey apartment block to accommodated 70 nurses. It has been described as \"probably the first modern building in Shanghai\". It was built by the SMC for the \"Country Hospital\", itself housed in a simple \"classical\" building opened in 1926 and designed by the young Hungarian László Hudec. The block occupied a dominating site directly beside the main road, which it shielded from the less visually challenging hospital building itself. Imaginative design features compensated for the essentially rectangular shape of the building. The high water table and the relatively soft soil meant that the block had to be constructed on 680 wooden piles, each approximately 20 meters long. Reinforced concrete beams were used to distribute the weight of the building's frame structure. The apartments were finished to a high standard, with radiators and in sect nets for the windows. The \"Victoria Nurse Home\" opened on 23 October 1933 and was widely praised both by senior medical personnel and in the press.\n\nHamburger's second major Shanghai commission was his secondary girls' school in the Singapore Road, designed for approximately 500 pupils. The building was again close to a main road, and the lay-out in relation to the adjacent road junction meant that a simple rectangular floor plan could not be specified. The two ends of the block featured rounded \"semi-tower\" shapes, and alongside the main three storey classroom block there was a long low \"pavilion\" for the housemaster's accommodation. The courtyard incorporated a waiting area for the \"rickshaw coolies\" taking the young ladies to and from school. As with all his designs, the school was planned with huge attention to detail and great thought for function. It was a showpiece for modern ideas concerning light, air, sun and ventilation. Hamburger's third major commission, the vast cruciform Ward Road Jail complex, was an entirely different proposition, meeting an entirely different set of requirements and challenges, but Hamburger's imagination and attention to detail, along with his exploitation of modern knowledge and materials, were again on display.\n\nBy 1930 the number of German nationals in Shanghai had reached perhaps 950. (There were thought to be approximately 4,000 Germans in the whole country.) Rudolf and Ursula became part of the German expatriate community, with links to the consulate and the more important mercantile families. With a construction boom under way, there was also an international network of architects and city planners into which Rudolf Hamburger was quickly integrated. For any German architect it was not unhelpful that Shen Yi, the young director of the city's Public Works Department and the man who had prepared the City Plan Framework (\"stadtplanerische Konzeption\") for Greater Shanghai, had received his doctorate at Dresden. A third social grouping, possibly more loosely interconnected than the first two, to which the Hamburgers were drawn was that of the leftwing political activists, Comintern members and other foreigners involve with the intelligence services of the various foreign governments interested in the city.\n\nThe couple fitted well enough into the expatriate communities, though they received regular confirmation that their leftwing political beliefs were out of line with the mainstream both for the German-speaking business community and with the international architects. One aspect of local custom that troubled then was the extent of gift giving, whether involving simple cash payments or vast food hampers at Christmas time. Letters home suggest they had trouble deciding what counted as friendliness and what counted as corruption, though Rudolf's architect colleagues were happy to confirm that it was simply a pleasing aspect of normal custom. One expatriate with whom the Hamburgers would have been able to discuss politics without inhibition was the Missouri-born journalist-author Agnes Smedley. The Hamburgers first met Smedley on 7 November 1930, which, as they would all have known very well, was the anniversary of the October Revolution. Smedley had lived in Berlin during the 1920s, mastering German and working as a campaigning journalist committed to equal rights for women and liberation for India. She had travelled to China from Berlin by train, via Moscow, setting off in December 1928 and ending up in Shanghai in May 1929. Here she joined up with a circle of German communists with whom she worked, though she herself never became a party member. Till the end of 1931 she worked as a correspondent for the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. In the early part of 1932 the worsening political climate in Germany and complaints lodged with the German consul in Shanghai by Chinese nationalists led the Frakfurter Allgemeine to dispense with her services. Agnes Smedley became involved with Richard Sorge during 1930. Sorge was a co-ordinator for Soviet Intelligence who had arrived in Shanghai at the start of 1930. Sorge left Shanghai at the end of 1932 and it is thought that he and Smedley never saw one another again.\n\nUrsula Hamburger and Agnes Smedley started seeing each other every day soon after meeting in November 1930, and Ursula started helping Smedley with her work. They also went to the cinema together and toured the local canals in a house-boat. It was in Smedley's apartment that the Hamburgers met the spy-sociologist Chen Hansheng who regaled them with information about the student movements in Beijing and Nanjing. The Hamburgers and the Chens became frequent visitors to one anothers' homes. Chen had already met Urusla's father, probably when studying for his doctorate (1927) in Berlin. In 1931 Ursula took a share in a language school that Chen's wife, Gu Shuxing opened in Shanghai. Rudolf Hamburger served as an architectural consultant on the project. However, Gu Shuxing refused to pay the usual bribes and the language school was closed down after a few days. Early in the summer 1935 the Chens were forced to flee the city, making their way in a disguise organised by Agnes Smedley to the ship that would take them to relative safety. Rudolf Hamburger would meet up with Chen Hansheng one last time, half a lifetime later, visiting Beijing as an East German tourist in 1964.\n\nIn November 1930 Agnes Smedley arranged a meeting between Ursula Hamburger and Richard Sorge. Sorge was working for Soviet intelligence (GRU) in Shanghai while pretending to be living from his work as a journalist. At the time she was also being courted by Comintern which seems to have been operating a rival or complementary operation in Shanghai, also directed from Moscow. In the end Ursula agreed to work for the group of intelligence activists around Sorge without \"breaking her head\" over the identity of the precise agency that employed her. Initially her role was essentially passive, and simply involved making the couple's apartment available for weekly conspiratorial meetings. The cover story used was that the visitors were her Mandarin language teachers. Sometimes weapons or printed material was hidden in the apartment, unbeknown to Rudolf. It was only when a Chinese comrade had to be hidden in the apartment that Rudolf was made privy to what was going on.\n\nRudolf Hamburger's involvement seems to have evolved more on a step by step basis. A member of the Polish Communist Party, known by his code name as \"John\", was working in a shop alongside the North-Szechuan Road, undertaking photographic jobs for the group around Sorge. The shop and its dark room became a secret meeting place and a secret meeting point for couriers. Sorge's deputy, Karl Rimm from Latvia, arrived in Shagnhai during 1931, using the cover name \"Klaas Selmann\", and participated in activities at the photography shop. During the final part of 1931 Rudolf Hamburger used his architectural training to plan an extensive refurbishment for the premises. At the end of January 1932 Japanese war ships landed troops in Shanghai. That was followed by an attack of the Chinese quarter of Zhabei, which caused many civilian casualties. Rudolf and Ursula Hamburger worked hard demonstrating solidarity with the Chinese population. It was an extremely active time for the group around Richard Sorge. Ursula became more and more involved in \"basic research\". A succession of visits to hospitals and district police stations were designed to create a favourable impression of the Communist Party leadership in Moscow among the Chinese population. Rudolf Hamburger engaged actively in this work.\n\nAlongside his work as an employee of the SMC) city planning office, in 1932 Rudolf Hamburger opened his own company, working on interior design and construction, called \"The Modern Home\" (TMC). By the start of 1933 the firm was faced with a growing backlog of orders. Already , Rudolf Hamburger's friend from their student days, had been studying emigration options. In January 1933 the Nazis took power and lost no time in transforming Germany into a one-party dictatorship, built on the twin populist pillars of hope and hatred. On April 1, 1933, the Nazi boycott of Jewish businesses was observed across Germany. Only six days later, the Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service was passed, banning Jews from government jobs. was Jewish. The Hitler take-over injected Paulick's emigration planning with a sudden urgency. In Dessau, where he lived and worked, he felt acutely threatened by the gangs of Nazi thugs. Rudolf Hamburger's invitation came at the right time. In Shanghai it was still possible to arrive and work without any special visa, simply with a valid passport. Richard Paulick caught the train to Venice and on 8 May 1933 embarked on board the SS Conte Rosso, arriving in Shanghai on 2 June 1933. He started work with \"The Modern Home\" on 6 June 1933.\n\nThe Hamburgers' first child, was born in Shanghai in February 1931. Till now the Hamburgers had been living in rented accommodation, but they now acquired a house of their own, moving into a large terraced property at Avenue Joffre 1676, in a notably verdant part of the French Concession in April 1931. Hamburger organised a new facade along with characteristically colourful and comprehensive renovation of the interior. Visitors were impressed, which led to a series of further \"dwelling house\" commissions from members of the \"expat community\". Maik later became a German Shakespeare scholar. In April 1933 Maik was sent to live with Rudolf Hamburger's parents (now relocating from Germany to Czechoslovakia) when Ursula was sent to Moscow. There had been a concern that if baby Michael had accompanied her to Moscow he might inadvertently have blown her cover later by blurting out words of Russian.\n\nRichard Sorge was recalled to Moscow in December 1932 and drew the attention of his intelligence chiefs to his talented young recruit, Ursula Hamburger. In May 1933 Ursula was invited to Moscow for a training period lasting at least half a year. She was given the cover name \"Sonja\", and received appropriate political and technical schooling. After almost a year, in April 1934 she returned to Shanghai accompanied by her new handler, Johann Patra (cover name \"Ernst\"), and the two of them then continued on to Mukden (today known as Shenyang) where they had been sent by Moscow. Maik, now aged three, was returned from Europe and went to live with his mother in Mukden. Rudolf Hamburger remained in Shanghai. The impact of fascist government policies in Germany and Japanese aggression drove him ever more uncompromisingly towards Communism. In May 1934 he began to undertake small \"services\" for his wife and Johann Patra in connection with their work for the GRU. However, it is clear that at this point his contribution was provided in terms of support for his wife rather than as an intelligence agent on his own account. Ursula Hamburger was providing a communications link to Moscow for Chinese partisan groups engaged in fighting the Japanese occupation of Manchuria. While she was in Mukden Rudolf Hamburger visited his wife two times, delivering spare parts for a radio transmitter.\n\nIn April 1935 Ursula had to leave Mukden in a hurry after one of her Chinese contacts was arrested and she faced the risk of betrayal. Her Moscow handlers sent her to Beijing where she lived in the home of the sinologoist Hellmut Wilhelm who was in Germany on home leave. They were approaching the anniversary of their arrival and Rudolf Hamburger was also due for home leave: travel costs for his entire family would be funded by his employer. He was also faced with having to decide whether to renew his contract with the SMC for a further five years. His existing contract would otherwise expire in April 1936. Taking account of accrued entitlement to leave, if he did not renew he would be able to leave at the end of 1935. Ursula's handlers had suggested that if she were to travel west she might consider doing so via Moscow in order to discuss her work. Rudolf (according to his wife's subsequently published autobiography) had by now become a convinced communist and was keen not to remain \"politically inactive\" for any longer: Ursula informed her Moscow handlers of this development. A poorly timed additional complication presented itself in August 1935 when Ursula decided she was definitely pregnant, not by Rudolf but by her intelligence contact, Johann Patra. Ursula's departure from China took place suddenly, following the arrest of a colleague in Shanghai. Rudolf agreed to stand by Ursula, at least till the birth of her child, despite the extramarital nature of her pregnancy. She had to break with Johann Patra. Moscow, fully briefed on Ursula's situation, now proposed a posting for the couple in Warsaw. For the GRU handlers, organising the documents necessary for a young middle-class architect and his family to move to Poland, and integrating them appropriately in Warsaw, would be far less of a challenge than arranging for the settlement of a single mother with two small children. In 1936 Rudolf and Ursula Hamburger moved to Warsaw. It would later transpire that in 1937 the Soviets awarded Ursula the Order of the Red Banner for her espionage work in China. Without ever wearing a uniform, she now held the rank of colonel in the Soviet military.\n\nThe return to Europe at the end of 1935 gave Rudolf Hamburger his first opportunity to stop off in Moscow and meet the leaders of the GRU, for which he had already worked in a succession of difficult situations, without having had direct contact with an intelligence handler. Ursula introduced him. Rudolf was in some ways disappointed: \"My wish had been to take on independent [intelligence] work in the future, and to receive appropriate training for the purpose. This wish was not fulfilled, but I received promises.\" (\"Mein Wunsch war es gewesen, in Zukunft eine selbständige Arbeit zu übernehmen und zu diesem Zweck vorher eine Ausbildung zu erhalten. Aber dieser Wunsch wurde mir nicht erfüllt, sondern für später versprochen.\"). The Hamburgers arrived in Warsaw in February 1936. Obtaining visas and permits on the bases of passports issued by the German consulate in Shanghai three years earlier proved a major challenge. Rudolf Hamburger visited the visa office in Warsaw almost on a daily basis for several weeks, and it was necessary to obtain agreement from his friend, the Polish architect to act as a guarantor: after several months of effort, and more than forty visits by Rudolf, the officials finally issued the Hamburgers with twelve month visas.\n\nUrsula's daughter by Johann Patra, Janina, was born in April 1936, soon after the couple's arrival in Warsaw. Rudolf Hamburger immediately acknowledged the baby as his own. The parents of Rudolf and Ursula were not told about the child's true paternity. Sources nevertheless suggest that by the time they arrived in Warsaw the Hamburgers' marriage had been \"shakey\" for some time.\n\nThe Polish authorities were in a state of high anxiety about the international situation, anticipating trouble from the Soviet Union to the east and from Nazi Germany to the west. Polish partitions had a long history. High levels of domestic unemployment had also given rise to legal restrictions on the employment of foreigners. In order to address these difficulties Rudolf Hamburger traveled to Paris where he signed a conract to work as a foreign correspondent for the specialist journal . He also signed a similar contract with a London based specialist architecture journal. His status as a foreign correspondent may have reduced the obstructiveness the couple encountered among officialdom when applying to extend their residence permits, and enabled them to lead a relatively conventional middle-class existence.\n\nIn Warsaw the Hamburgers became friendly with (1893–1964) and his wife Helena (1900–1982) who were both involved with the International Congresses of Modern Architecture. With the help of Syrkus, Rudolf Hamburger entered into a form of architectural partnership with a Warsaw architect called Spiwall. The partnership concentrated on residential houses and villas. Hamburger's residence permit did not permit him to earn money in Poland. Some sort of financial arrangement with Spiwall was nevertheless devised, and Hamburger did most of his partnership work from home. However, a succession of \"conspiratively arranged\" changes of address made it increasingly hard for Hamburger to work in the city. He did draw up plans for a substantial ten dwellings unit for his partner, and also found professional work in Krakow. Towards the end of 1937 the Hamburgers moved to Zakopane, a winter resort in the mountains near the Czechoslovak border, to the south of Krakow. Rudolf traveled to Warsaw only a couple of times each month. Otherwise he spent the winter working at home on plans that could only be implemented with the Spring thaw.\n\nIn 1937 the Hamburgers received a personal visit from Ursula's handler in Moscow, who was keen to evaluate the local situation for himself. During the summer of 1937 Ursula undertook a three month training visit to Moscow. Stalin's purges against enemies of the regime were at their height. More than a thousand German political refugees from Nazism were among the many Muscovites identified as Trotskyites and spies: in many cases they were summarily tried and shot. Ursula Hamburger was well aware of what was going on, but she herself never fell victim to Stalin's paranoia.\n\nRudolf Hamburger subsequently wrote that his contribution to Soviet intelligence during the time in Poland was in effect restricted to the help he was able to give his wife. He involved himself in the installation of radio antennae and getting hold of components for radio receivers/transmitters, along with general repairs and maintenance. There was code compilation, reception and transmission, stand-by duty through the night \"and more\". On several occasions he insisted on transmitting his own messages to Moscow, asking when he would be able to come to Moscow for intelligence training in order to be able to undertake intelligence work on his own account. Disappointingly, replies received from Moscow were invariably dismissive, deferring, as it felt to Hamburger indefinitely, any closer working relationship between Rudolf Hamburger and Soviet intelligence.\n\nIn June 1938 Moscow the Hamburgers' time in Warsaw came to an end. Ursula was called to Moscow for a three month training: a new posting for her had already been decided upon. The children were sent to stay with Ursula's parents who since 1933 had been living in London, England as refugees from Nazi Germany. Rudolf spent the summer across the Atlantic, visiting his elder brother, Viktor who had been settled as a professor of Embryology at Washington University in St. Louis (MS) since 1935.\n\nUrsula's next posting was to Switzerland. In September 1938 Rudolf and Ursula Hamburger moved to a small house in Caux (Vaud), a three-hour walk up into the mountains above Montreux. Shortly after their arrival in Switerland the Hamburgers' German passports lapsed. Since they were both Jewish there was little prospect of easily renewing the documents, which left them effectively stateless. In order to avoid difficulties with the Swiss authorities they surrendered their German citizenship. Through a middle-man who had connections with the League of Nations, at the other end of the lake, in Geneva, they acquired Honduras citizenship in return for an appropriate payment. In order for them to reside legally in Switzerland it was, in addition, also necessary for Rudolf Hamburger to transfer money regularly from Shanghai, via London, to Switzerland. He also continued to contribute material to the specialist architecture journals in Paris and London. It was, however, in Switzerland that Rudolf Hamburger finally concluded that the lifestyle his wife's espionage work was imposing on them was no longer tolerable.\n\nFinally, in the first part of 1939 Moscow agreed that Rudolf might undertake intelligence work with direct links to the service. On his own initiative he spent two months in Paris attending a course on radio technology, although French was not one of his principal languages and there are indications that language difficulties reduced the usefulness of the course to him. When he got back to Switzerland the message came through that Moscow's first assignment for him involved a posting to China. Moscow had also communicated an instruction that before he left for China he and Ursula should formally divorce, which they did. The Hamburgers' divorce opened the way for Ursula to marry Len Beurton in February 1940. Aside from any romantic considerations, this may also have been part of a longer term Soviet plan. Len Beurton was a Soviet agent. More importantly, he was born in Essex, England, and by marrying him Ursula was able to exchange her recently purchased Honduras passport for a British passport.\n\nA further indignity came with the news from Moscow that his GRU handler for his assignment was to be Johann Patra, Ursula's former handler and the biological father of Janina, the baby who was to grow up believing that her father was the man to whom her mother had been married when she was conceived and born, Rudolf Hamburger. Having finally been added to the GRU payroll, however, Rudolf Hamburger was determined to make light of the matter.\n\nOn 20 April 1939 at Marseilles Rudolf Hamburger boarded the ship that would take him to Asia. His earlier China trips had used the overland route, and this was the first time he had made the journey by sea. Many of his fellow passengers were German-Jewish refugees, as he reported in a letter dated 25 April 1939 to his elder brother, Viktor. They were heading for \"one of the few places left in the world still open to them, Shanghai, where they would join some 7,000 unemployed German co-religionists already there. They spoke not one word of English and were really in a pitiful state\" (\"An Bord befinden sich Mengen von Glaubensgenossen, die alle nach dem für sie einzigen noch offenen Platz in der Welt fahren, Shanghai – um zu den 7.000, die schon dort sitzen ohne Arbeit noch einige mehr hinzuzufügen. Sie sprechen kein Wort englisch und sind überhaupt recht armselige Gewächse\"). Viktor Hamburger had been based in Missouri since 1935 but the third brother, Otto Hamburger (1907-1997), was now living in Shanghai. After the brothers' mother had died in 1937 their father had relocated to Shanghai and joined his youngest son. This meant that although Rudolf Hamburger still had no details on the intelligence assignments that he would be given in China, he did already know that he was on his way to a family reunion. The family, at this point, knew nothing of Rudolf's divorce, though they did know that the children were staying behind with Ursula in Switzerland.\n\nThis time, however, the intended ultimate destination for Rudolf Hamburger was not Shanghai, where he planned to spend at most fourteen days before moving on further to the north. A Sino-English firm of building contractors which he knew well from the old days had offered him architectural work. Details had been a little hazy, but the offer had nevertheless appeared acceptable. From his letters it turns out that he did not sail directly from Marseilles to Shanghai, but disembarked at Singapore in order to obtain visa for \"Siam, Indochina and Java\". He toured around, taking in Kuala Lumpur, Bangkok, Phnom Penh and Saigon, and then in July 1939 took a passage on a coastal boat from Saigon to Shantou (Guangdong) from where he made his way on to Shanghai. He was still in Shanghai in November 1939, having stayed there \"longer than intended, as a result of the war\". He was finding some architectural work, but only for very modest residential accommodation. There was no return to the grand projects. There is a certain studied vagueness in the letter he sent his brother Viktor in November 1939, and it seems reasonable to infer that Soviet intelligence still had not found him anything important to do. During this time in Shanghai he was living not with his brother but on his own in a small house. Most of the friends and colleagues he had known when he lived in Shanghai during the early 1930s were gone: those that remained were not the ones whose company he was inclined to seek out. Under the guidance of Johann Patra he stayed in his little house and occupied himself with the operation of radio transmitters and receivers, and on a rather \"superficial\" (\"oberflächlich\") level, explosives procedure. (Patra himself lived elsewhere, in relative safety, with a rich Chinese family.)\n\nIt seems to have been early in 1940 that Patra and Hamburger received instructions to find comrades in Shanghai who might be persuaded to work as \"enlighteners\", converting local people to Communism. However, the Chinese communists had left Shanghai in 1937 when, following months of bitter fighting, the city (apart from the International Settlement and the French Concession) had been placed under Japanese military occupation. Patra and Hamburger therefore decided to look for candidates in other cities. Through the wide circle of friends and acquaintances he had acquired during years in Shanghai, Hamburger had contacts with a doctor in with a German wife, living in Xi'an. He set out to find the doctor so as to be able to win him for the communist cause with a face-to-face talk. There were, at least on the map, at least two ways to get from Shanghai to Xi'an. There was a more or less direct cross-country route which involved a combination of buses and trains, but both Patra and Hamburger believed that this was unacceptably dangerous because of the war. The alternative route, approximately three times as long, involved travelling by ship to Hong Kong, from where it would be possible to take a flight to Chongqing, Chiang Kai-shek's wartime capital between 1937 and 1946. Hamburger intended then to follow a land route from Chongqing Xi'an.\n\nAlthough he had a large amount of luggage to take, Patra still insisted that Hamburger should travel with a radio transmitter-receiver so that they might stay in touch. The device was concealed inside a commercially available portable radio. In March 1940 Rudolf Hamburger traveled with his luggage to Hong Kong. Here he had problems with the English border officials because he was travelling on a Honduras passport., but after an involuntary stay of several hours he was able to catch a flight for Chongqing where the Chinese authorities found and confiscated his radio for inspection. He was able to collect it from them two days later. It was handed over without comment, leaving Hamburger none the wiser as to whether they had failed to spot the true nature of the device hidden in the radio, or they knew very well that it was an espionage-grade receiving-transmitting device and were now alerted that his further moves would need to be closely monitored.\n\nThe involuntary stay in Chongqing was not without incident. He unexpectedly came across a German acquaintance and a rich Chinese woman whom he had known in Shanghai. Bizarrely, he also came across Agnes Smedley who, it seemed, was working on a book about the war. Hamburger found time to send a letter to his father in Shanghai. He wrote, \"The air-raids are not so harmless as you thought. They were called off in the 'misty season', but now they are again expected and feared. Thousands are being spent on constructing air-raid shelters and using explosives to create shelters under the cliffs\" (\"Die air raids sind doch nicht so harmlos wie du glaubst. Sie waren in der misty season unterbrochen, aber sie werden jetzt wieder erwartet und gefürchtet. Tausende wurden ausgegeben, um Unterstände zu bauen und in den Felsen zu sprengen\").\n\nHamburger now caught a flight from Chongqing to Chengdu. The final 500 or so miles to Xi'an he covered by bus. He left the radio device and other technical equipment with his acquaintances in Chongqing. In Xi'an he met his communist friend and a group of the friend's comrades. He convinced several to go to Manchuria in support of his political mission. They were first to come to Shanghai to \"sign up\" and then travel on to the north. Hamburger was also intending to make his new base in Manchuria. His work in Xi'an completed, he returned to Chongqing to collect his radio receiver-transmitter. He was keen to make contact with Patra back in Shanghai in order to be able to report on what he had achieved. The radio needed repairs, but he was able to purchase the necessary parts in a specialist parts. \"Shortly after that I was arrested\".\n\nThe \"blue-eyed naivete\" Rudolf Hamburger repeatedly demonstrated during his first and last serious intelligence mission provide implicit support for the assessment of his strengths and weaknesses which the Soviet intelligence directorate had presumably carried out ten years earlier.\n\nThe enforced transfer of the Chinese capital from Nanjing to Chongqing after 1937 led to a major influx of foreign journalists to the new capital. These and any other foreign visitors were encouraged to make their base in the so-called Chungking Hostel. Rudolf Hamburger was one who did just that. Japanese air raids took place only between April and September: winter mist made them impossible during winter months. In the summer there were raids most nights, and hotel guests hurried to shelter in a cave in the grounds which had been adapted as an air-raid shelter. During one of those summer nights, probably in April 1940, Rudolf Hamburger and two other suspects were arrested. The American journalist Emily Hahn was one of those who witnessed the arrest. She was sufficiently impressed to recall it in an autobiography: \"He chewed up a paper and tried to swallow it. It had a code on it, exactly like the movies\". His room was immediately searched. The radio transmitter-receiver and the accompanying kit of spare parts were found and confiscated. The two individuals arrested with him were both people with whom he had been seen conversing a few times: they were soon released.\n\nIn Shanghai Otto Hamburger received a message in \"Ganoven-jargon\", a semi-secret dialect/language: \"H's Bruder als Späher in Kittchen. Soll weggeputzt werden\". Otto inferred that his brother Rudolf and been arrested and was in danger of being disappeared. He communicated the news to Rudolf's \"communist friends\" and the information was presumably passed through to Moscow. Members of the Hamburger family later believed that by passing on the message Otto had probably secured Rudolf's eventual release. Meanwhile, Otto also used his own contacts to try and secure Rudolf's release, invoking the help of a senior nationalist Chinese government official who was in Shanghai at the time whom the Hamburger brothers both knew well. The senior official sent off a telegramme to a colleague in Chongqing, vouching for Rudolf's good character. A few days later it was the helpful official who lost his job. The case of Rudolf Hamburger was evidently one that the government took seriously.\n\nHamburger was held in a wooden building which was attached to a police station in Chongqing for approximately thee weeks. He was interrogated about who he was, who had sent him and what he was doing. No Chinese reports of his interrogations have been accessed, but recalling these events many years later he indicated strongly that he had given nothing away. After eight days the interrogation sessions resumed, now involving serious physical torture, but still Hamburger did not betry his comrades.\n\nEarly in the morning, after approximately three weeks in the \"wooden shack\" at the police station, Hamburger was driven away in a large limousine to a formerly private estate in the countryside outside the city. The twelve room mansion had been commandeered during the war for use as an interrogation prison and was \"home\" to forty or fifty detainees. Apart from Hamburger, the inmates were all Chinese. Female detainees were kept across the yard in a separate building that had previously accommodated the household servants. From the front of the house there was a fantastic view stretching thirty or forty kilometers across valleys and rivers. He was permitted to enjoy the view for fifteen minutes each day, through the two bars that had been placed across the window of the front room on the ground floor where he was taken for his \"daily walk\". Hamburger later described his incarceration in this manor house as relatively benign, though he also reported that all the detainees, including him, fell ill with Malaria. At six weekly intervals he was taken before an investigating magistrate, and each time he refused to testify he was returned to custody.\n\nHamburger's Chinese imprisonment lasted for nine months, during much of which he shared his \"cell\" with a Chinese student identified as \"Wong Pin Fong\". His cell-mate had (he said) ended up in detention as the ringleader of an illegal street protest. The pressure on Hamburger under these circumstances was to keep his thoughts to himself, and to avoid reacting to his companion's constant questions about his own situation. Wong Pin Fong communicated his own unremarkable conclusions: \"Foreigner ... in reality you can really only be a member of the American or Soviet secret service\" (\"... eigentlich kannst du nur zum amerikanischen oder sowjetischen Geheimdienst gehören\"). With no prospect of freedom in sight, and every indication that he and his fellow detainees might remain where they were for many years until the malaria and the increasingly sparse diet finished them off, Hamburger became ever more depressed.\n\nGeneral Chuikov arrived in the Chinese provisional capital in November 1940 as the youthfaul new Soviet military attache. The Russian empire had suffered military humiliation at the hand of the Japanese military in 1905, and with the 1937 invasion of China by Japan the Soviet leadership were quick to strengthen political ties and physical communications links with the nationalist Chinese. The outbreak of war in Europe increased Moscow's determination to minimise the dangers of Japanese aggression against the motherland from the east. A major complication was the attitude of the Communist Party of China under the leadership of Mao Zedong. Instead of joining the government to present a common front against the Empire of Japan, the Communist fighters saw the Japanese invasion as an opportunity to pursue their own goals in opposition to the government with renewed vigour. Relations between the government and the communists became so dreadful that in January 1941 Chiang Kai-shek, the leader of the Chinese government, found himself forced to invite Moscow to intervene as a mediator between the government and the communists.\n\nA the end of January 1941 Hamburger was taken for another of his six weekly encounters with the investigating magistrate. This time there were no questions. Insterad his interlocutors informed him that now they knew where he came from, and that he would shortly be released and sent back. In the words of his own later report of the matter, \"the friends had intervened\" (\"Es war eine Intervention seitens der Freunde.\").\n\nIn 1939 a regular direct flight connection had been established between Chongqing and Moscow. It was now possible to fly from one capital to the other in only five days. At the start of February 1941 Rudolf Hamburger took the flight to Moscow. He was now accommodated with others in a Dacha settlement a short distance outside Moscow. There are indications that the settlement was at Kuntsevo, where it is known that there was a training centre for potential intelligence operatives. During the early summer of 1941 he received extensive training, although according to his later reports the nature of it was uneven and the organisation of it often chaotic. Sometimes lecturers \"came out from Moscow\" But some of the most important lessons came from discussions with fellow students who, like Hamburger, had already had the benefit of a certain amount of experience in the field. By June 1941, with the German invasion imminent from the west, he was packing his bags again.\n\nHis destination, this time, was Turkey, from where he was to provide intelligence reports on developments in the Middle East. In order to address the potential limitations of travelling on his Honduras passport, he intended to travel by train to Vladivostok and from there, by sea, to Shanghai. From there he would be able to travel legally through India and Iran to Turkey without having to apply for a visa. This journey did not work out quite as planned, however, since on 22 June 1941, in breach of the non-aggression deal between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union, German troops stormed across the frontier. After rapidly knocking out the Soviet Union, the German plan was to continue through to Iran and capture the oil fields. The Great Patriotic War became suddenly urgent and there were no more ships sailing from Vladivostok to Shanghai. Hamburger was summoned back to Moscow. His handlers did not cancel his assignment, however. Since the original itinerary was impossible because of the absence of a sea passage from the est of the country to Shanghai, and alternative plan was devised whereby the various visa stamps would be added in his Honduras passport by Soviet intelligence, providing a forged trail indicating that he had traveled via Shanghai and India to Tehran. Then, during the Autumn of 1941, he drove across by the land route via Tbilisi in Georgia and through Armenia to Tabriz near the border in northern Iran. That meant that regardless of his passport stamps, he had to this point made the entire overland journey through territory controlled by the Soviet Union. By October 1941 he had reached Tehran.\n\nHamburger was keen to continue to Turkey as instructed, but with international tensions rising in the area the Turkish authorities reacted negatively to his Honduras passport, and he encountered difficulty obtaining a visa. Meanwhile the situation in Iran had changed dramatically since the early summer, and the country had gained in strategic importance with regard tho the war. In August 1941, the British and the Soviets invaded and occupied Iran by a massive air, land, and naval assault. There was a concern that the shah was insufficiently anti-German and in September 1941 he had been persuaded to abdicate in favour of his son. The German invasion of the Soviet Union three months earlier had made the United States into an unlikely backer of Stalin's Soviet Union, and the Americans now raced to created a robust transport infrastructure which by 1942 had become the route by which approximately a third of all the overseas supplies to the Soviet Union were delivered. In 1943 1.6 million tons of equipment and food were delivered to the Soviet Union through Iran. The hub of the road and rail route from the sea ports to the Soviet border was Tehran. At some stage, presumably while he was still trying to arrange a visa for Turkey, Hamburger's Moscow handlers concluded that he would be more usefully deployed sending reports from Tehran, and he received instructions to stay there.\n\nFor Stalin the large US military presence that appeared in Iran towards the end of 1941 was a necessary evil, but it was not something that could be viewed with total equanimity. Monitoring of developments on the ground by means of a network of unobtrusive informants, employing agents from third countries, became an important link in the information gathering chain. The US military were naturally aware that various agencies were present on the ground, attempting to fathom their \"true\" motives. Rudolf Hamburger sought out contacts among the British and American officers and soon developed friendships with them, in pursuit of his information gathering mission on behalf of his handlers. He used to pass on his findings in face-to-face GRU middlemen stationed at the Soviet embassy in Tehran. This modality was clearly not without its risks, and during 1942 Moscow provided him with a radio receiver-transmitter, instructing him to use it to create a direct reporting link.\n\nIn order to provide a legal basis for his presence in the city, in January 1942 he took a job as an architect, working for the Finance Ministry in Tehran. His first project was do design and build a new building for the ministry. Draft pans had been prepared by February. His project team already included six local draftsmen. Another European was hired to supervise the project, though Hamburger hmself was also closely involved in co-ordination with the various parts pof the ministry, His boss was a doctor-engineer who had trained in Germany who \"came from one of the leading families in the land\". The language used in the office was French. There was also an Austrian architect involved with whom he was able to discuss some of the more techbical chalenges of the project. Meanwhile, letters to his brother and father, now both in Missouri, indicate that his health was improving. The altitude of Tehran and the dry air led to a reduction in the frequency of his malarial attacks. His family letters avoided political issues in order to avoid upsetting any censors through whose hands they might pass. (During the war it was impossible to exchange letters with his younger brother in Shanghai.)\n\nIn May 1942 the ministry cut the budget for new buildings in Tehran due to the pressures of war. This held up work on the new ministry building on which Hamburger was working. Also, steel production was being diverted to war production which meant that there was not enough steel for all the reinfoced concrete that the plans called for. Along with the ministry work, he also found private clients, though he became frustrated by the local builders who liked to substitute their own spontaneous ideas for the plans provided to them. There is a complaint in one of his letters that in Iran architects do not enjoy a very high status.\n\nEarly in 1943 an Iranian friend who worked as a simultaneous translator for one of the heads of the American transport and logistics operation invited Hamburger to start working as an \"informal collaborator\" (informant). Money was offered. The decisive conversation took place in the friend's apartment. Around two weeks later Hamburger found himself arrested by American military police. At his first interrogation session he realised that his conversartion in his friend's apartment had been recorded, and that the recording had come into the possession of his interrogators. Hamburger calculated that there was little on that tape that might have incriminated him, and his iterrogators evidently agreed. In order to find some more damning evidence the Americans then broke into the little house where Hamburger was living on his own. They gave no evidence of having found whatever it was they were looking for. They did not find the heavy radio receiver-transmitter he had been given by his Soviet handlers, which was kept in an aluminium container the size of a small suitcase, and which was hung casually with a lot of knitting up a disused chimney.\n\nAround the same time Hamburger came across an English military officer in Tehran for whom he had worked in Shanghai ten years earlier. The man had then been working for the British Colonial Police in the Shanghai International Settlement and had been involved in the construction of a new jail which Hamburger had been building. It seemed reasonable to assume that the man was fully aware of the circumstances surrounding Hamburger's arrest two years before in Chongqing. From that it followed that Hamburger's unmasking in Tehran as a Soviet agent could only be a matter of time. The fact that a tape recording of an unsuccessful attempt to recruit him as an informant for another agency indicated that he must already be under observation by the Americans and their British allies. Rudolf Hamburger was now detained and taken to a small military camp just outside the city. Meanwhile his Honduras passport taken away for further scrutiny. The authorities established that stamps placed in it by passport officers in three British colonial - Bombay, Singapore and Suez - could not be matched to any corresponding records in the files of the checkpoints involved. Very quickly the authorities determined that the passport stamps could only have been entered by the Soviet Union's Main Intelligence Directorate. No further trial was considered necessary. By now it was August 1943. His British captors gave him a couple of days to leave the country and, helpfully, delivered him to the Soviet embassy.\n\nAlthough it might be thought that his constribution to Soviet intelligence had been less than stellar since 1930, and the GRU had given little reason to believe that they valued his services very highly, Rudolf Hamburger had demonstrated a remarkable degree of persistence, commitment and loyalty over the years. Forced to leave Tehran at short notice he welcomed the opportunity to return to Moscow in order to be able to apply for political asylum.\nHowever, two days after his arrival in the Soviet capital had was accused of having worked for US intelligence against the interests of the Soviet Union and taken into investigatory detention. Over the next few weeks he faced a series of interrogation sessions, which took place at night and each lasted several hours. At dawn he would be returned to his cell. He tried to demonstrate his innocence, but the investigators came back with more accusations that he had worked for \"other\" intelligence services. Many years later the East German homeland security service (MfS) came to hold an information report from the Soviets which included the conclusion \"The circumstances of Hamburger's release from detention in Iran gave rise to the suspicion that he had ben recruited by a foreign intelligence service\" (\"Die Umstände der Entlassung Hamburgers aus der Haft in Iran erwecken Verdacht seiner Anwerbung durch einen ausländischen Geheimdienst\"). His request for a lawyer was turned down without explanation. From Hamburger's point of view there was absolutely no evidence against him and nothing to justify his detention.\n\nFor slightly more than nine months, between August 1943 and April/May 1944, Rudolf Hamburger was held in investigatory detention in Moscow. He lost twenty kilos (45 pounds): he was badly affected physically and mentally. \"For 24 hours you are kept awake, through hunger and stress. To be able to think of nothing and sleep. The food is dire ... hunger is a terrible torture\" (\"Vor Hunger und Aufregung möchte man 24 Stunden schlafen. Schlafen und an nichts denken. Das Essen ist elend. (...) Hunger ist eine furchtbare Folter\"). There was no trial, but he was sentenced to five years in a prison camp. The conviction was based on Article 58 of the Penal Code. A fellow inmate explained that this was the paragraph for \"political criminals\". However, Hamburger also became aware that his conviction carried an additional three letter tag that identified his as a \"socially dangerous element\".\n\nAfter receiving his sentence Hamburger was placed on a train and transported to Saratov, a port on the Volga River upstream of Stalingrad (as it was known between 1925 and 1961), and 850 km to the south of Moscow. The labour camp, accommodating German prisoners of war, was on the edge of town. Later he reflected that entering the camp had sealed his status as a citizen sentenced according to laws, without the investigation necessary to prove guilt or innocence, sentenced in breach of basic human rights and without the right to any legal defence. Only \"after Stalin's death did the secret of this thousandfold injustice become known. Since the 1930s the People's Commisariat for Internal Affairs has designated special three person committees, the so-called Special boards (OSO) with special powers. These OSOs condemned politically dangerous citizens without any court verdict ... The OSOs were abolished in 1953 after Stalin's death\" (\"Nach Stalins Tod wurde das Geheimnis dieses tausendfach verübten Unrechts bekannt. Seit den dreissiger Jahren hat das damalige Volkskommissariat für Innere Angelegenheiten Drei-Mann-Ausschüsse, sogenannte OSO, mit Sondervollmachten eingesetzt. Diese OSO verurteilten politisch gefährliche Bürger ohne Gerichtsurteil. (...) Die OSO wurden 1953 nach Stalins Tod abgeschafft\").\n\nAlthough it was his first labour camp, Hamburger had been told by prisoners with whom he had been held in Moscow what to expect. His description reflects his architect's eye. \"Here is how the camp looks: a barren bare barrack town. Barracks in rows, rank and file, and barracks at right angles, in a vast landscape on bare ground under an open sky. And that was how life ran, in straight lines and at right angles ... Must I describe a sleeping barrack? ... where a person is reduced to an anonymous little part of a larger whole that vegetates like a cow in a stall? At right angles to he long side walls, in pairs, sets of double-deck bunk beds ... arranged in a way that takes no account of the positions of the windows, due to the shortage of space, and therefore these are partially obstructed and only let in half of the light. In the long wide space down the middle of the hut is a long table constructed of unfinished timber, with long wooden benches the same length ... The table is used by the inmates for meals ... Behind the table is a big tiled stove\". One thing he did not know was the Brigade Leader Nikolai was a \"Stukatsch\", introduced to notice and report on trifling misdemeanours. In the very early spring of 1945 Hambrger was removed from the prison camp and taken to a prison where he faced his first legal hearing (\"a farce\"), since his sentencing and he was charged with further misconduct. He was placed in a solitary cell (\"for hard cases\"). The prison governor informed him that a new ordinance had been promulgated to the effect that \"Article 58 prisoners\" should be kept apart from other prisoners. The cell was unheated and very cold. He began to distract himself with \"architectural fantasies.\" \"If I stood up, then I could use the wooden spoon they gave me to scratch the gound plans of houses in the ice crystals forming on the walls, for houses in a dreamland for lucky people with a living room, somewhere for the books, a kitchen, bathroom and garden\". The further misdsemeanours which had triggered his transfer from the camp to the prison in the first place had placed him not merely in breach of \"Article 58\" of the penal code, but also in breach of \"Patagraph 10\" of \"Article 58\". His aggravating conduct had involved an Americam illustrated magazine which he had been given at the camp by the secretary of a US officer. The American military were present in one part of the Saratov labour camp supervising the assembly of a chemicals factory which had been brought in as part of a \"wartime relief\" programme. Fellow camp inmates were produced to back-up the evidence of the \"Stukatsch\" brigade leader that Hamburger had been distributing anti-Soviet propaganda. Together with the routine badmouthing of the poor treatment, terrible food and the generally bad situation in the camp, Hamburger was therefore identified as an \"enemy of the state\". His sentence extended to eight years. Taking account of the two years already served, that made a total of ten years.\n\nIn May 1945 Hamburger was taken to the Karaganda region, far to the east in Kazakhstan. He gained the impression that Karaganda was the main camp at the heart of a large network of labour camps covering an area of approximately 33,800 square kilometers. Some thirty kilometers from Karaganda, within the fence surrounding the camp where he was himself held there were the remains of a village called that had originally been founded by Volga Germans. The network of camps around Karanda had been created to support the operation of approximately fifty coal mines in the area. Rudolf Hamburger lived one of the former farmhouses in the old village. \"We stepped through the front door. Involuntarily I lowered my head. A small whitewashed entrance lobby with a flagstone floor, and behind that a large parlour of about 17 square meters, where six narrow iron bedsteads stood against the walls. In the middle a wooden table with two benches, in the corner a tiled stove ... from the entrance lobby there was also an opening to a small room with two beds in it. ... Life in the farm house is decidedly more pleasant than in the barrack accommodation of a purpose-built labour camp\". Unlike the camp where he had been held at Saratov, this time all the prisoners were designated as \"Article 58 (political) prisoners\".\n\nHamburger's transfer to this camp was not a random event. It was the result of a targeted search by the camp commander for a construction specialist. He was set to work in a design office with other prisoners. \"The building\" containing the design office was constructed of dried mud bricks, the floor was of cement screed. Doors and windows were of rustic construction. You had to bend to enter the room over a high step. Beyond were two similarly sized rooms, containing a team of around eight engineers, estimators and draftsmen working at drawing boards and desks. In the room to the left were the building specialists, while the estmators had their work places in the room to the right. The work was restricted, as usual, to relatively simple projects such as small annexes and renovation projects for police stations, washing cabins or sleeping barracks for prison camps in the area. One project that moved away from the daily pattern was for an entrance house to a semi-wild area of parkland, suggesting that someone somewhere still had ambitions beyond basic survival. Hamburger put his heart and soul into the project, ending up with a design for a gatehouse of which he was very proud. It was a kind of gate house to be fashioned from wood. It drew admiration from colleagues, but was too expensive to be constructed.\n\nAfter four years in the Kazakh Steppes, in May 1949 Hamburger was sent back to the Volga region for a \"review trial\". However, when he returned to the area near his \"first camp\", along the Volga basin, he was informed that he had been sent back simply for the correction of a procedural error. The accusation on the basis of which he was being held was not changed. However, prisoners were never returned to camps from which they had been removed, and he was sent to a prison camp a short distance to the north of Saratov. He was now set to work as one of approximately ten inmates in a drawing office belonging to a furniture factory. He was involved in making furniture. Some of his colleagues were design experts: others were graphic artists. The programme included office furniture and, on Hamburger's table, a bed-sit combination. The work was more stimulating than his work at Karaganda had been because he was able to see the projects through to the construction phase. Most of the camp inmates - men and women - were employed in the furniture factory itself, and Hamburger was an almost daily visitor to the factory, where he was able to check on the preparation of the timber pieces and recommend changes and improvements.\n\nAfter a year, around May 1950 Hamburger was moved again. His destination was not initially disclosed to him. He was taken north, to the Ural foothills and placed in a lumber camp near Solikamsk and the Kama River, where he was given responsibility for buildings maintenance. \"I was too weak for forestry work. No work brigade would take me. A kindly fellow inmate, also employed in the buildings maintenance office, allocated me the work of drawing up plans and calculations. In a tiny room of one of the barrack blocks, lit by a window the size of a show box, I sat on my own feeling imprisoned twice over\". In the limber camp he became overcome by depression and frustration that he still had many more years of imprisonment to look forward to: \"It all appalls me. The insignificant tasks I am set, which I have to perform, rough tables with the two scratched either side, the ceilings, the walls gawking at me in dumb stupidity, the whole as a window with its glimpse of the yard, barracks and barbed wire to prevent me from forgetting where I am, and the hunger ... the hunger and the bugs. What do I have to look forward to, if I do survive through to freedom, starved, bitten by beasts, grey haired, a creature alienated from life and work?\"\n\nHowever, at this point his persistent assertions that his sentence was unjust appeared to meet with a small measure of success. At some point during the middle part of 1950 he was sent to a special camp, built on the site of a vast national infrastructure construction site for power stations, dams, canals and reservoirs. Prisoners here were required to prove their value, but in return, their time at this \"special camp\" was said to count for twice the actual period in terms of expunging outstanding years of sentence. In Rudolf Hamburger's case, that meant that his remaining three year sentence would apparently be reduced to one and a half years when he arrived at Kuybyshev (since 1991 again identified officially by its pre-1935 name as Samara). He was sent to a labour camp near an abandoned city. \"No smoke came out of the chimneys, no human noise, no barking dogs. The city had been evacuated some months earlier. Soon the valley, which had nurtured a vibrant city, would be inundated in a giant flood so as to provide hydro-electric power for new industries and thousands of new homes. A bold and awesome project. So there we were, lined up like a small army of construction workers, technicians and engineers, all prisoners who if we keep up the momentum of the project, will soon be able to welcome our freedom\".\n\nIn 1950 the Soviet government decided to build what would become at the time, the largest hydro-electric plant in the world. The entire facility came on stream in 1957. It was here that Rudolf Hamburger worked on the conversion of an existing building on the edge of the city to create the offices of an important General. He prepared the plans for the furniture, the lighting and the overall interior design. However, his time at the special camp had lasted only six months when a diligent official noticed that foreigners were not permitted at this site. Nevertheless, due to the regulations governing the \"special camp\", by this time he had expunged twelve months of his outstanding sentence in just six months.\n\nThere followed a \"return to the dreaded Urals\" as Hamburger was sent to the \"UsoLag\" lumber camp. Through a combination of his physical stature and the weakened condition of his body after years in the labour camp system, he was unable to cope with the physical demands of forestry work. He was transferred to the Power Plant Brigade. Here he met up with around twenty German prisoners who had all found themselves classified as \"Article 58 prisoners\" and sentenced to ten years in the camps. Together they were required to use handsaws to chop up the wood and fuel the wood-burning power generators. One of his fellow prisoners was the writer who became a long-standing friend. Stoll had been sentenced (without trial) to a ten year term in Siberia in 1950 following a complicated series of events involving espionage allegations and political activism in the Soviet sponsored German Democratic Republic. Hamburger was able to supplement his basic labour camp wage by painting little water colour drawings as picture postcards for fellow inmates. This was a source of supplementary income that he had also, on occasion, been able to use at previous camps.\n\nBetween 1929 and 1953 the Soviet labour camps consisted of 476 complexes, distributed across the entire western part of the Soviet Union. Lavrentiy Beria became responsible for the camp network in 1939. He launched a major drive to organise the camps according to a national set of precepts and strucures, consciously prioritising economic aspects of the system. For Stalin the labour camps were a central pillar of the Soviet economy. When Beria took over, camp commanders received the order to \"keep more inmates alive and exploit them more efficiently\".\n\nNevertheless, it is abundantly clear from Rudolf Hamburger's experiences and from other souces that there were always enormous differences from camp to camp. In the words of Tatiana Okunevskaya, a Moscow-born actress who was also a long-term camp prisoner, \"each camp was its own world, its own city in its own territory, and each camp had its own character During his final years Stalin became ever more driven by paranoid delusions of counter-revolutionary threats, and he reacted appropriately against different ethnic groupings, rumoured rivals from within the party and \"intellectuals\". So it is not surprising to find the dictator stating in 1952 that \"every Jew is a nationalist and an agent of the American security services. After Stalin died in March 1953 Beria made his own bid for national leadership. That same month he made a proposal that 90% of the more than two million labour camp inmates, who could not be convicted of any serious crime, should be set free. As a national economic resource the network of labour camps was hopelessly inefficient. In economic terms his radical proposal was set in motion, but within the party leadership Beria was seen to pose a threat. In June 1953 Nikita Khrushchev, with powerful backing from sections of the army, had Beria arrested. He was executed on 23 December 1953. The programme of labour camp releases that he had set in motion continued, however.\n\nRudolf Hamburger had been arrested less than two years before the end of the war. After war ended his brother Viktor, living in MIssouri, and his ex-wife, who till 1949 lived in an Oxfordshire village, began to receive occasional reports about him via fellow internees who had emerged from the Soviet labour camps. Rudolf Hamburger was not permitted to send or receive letters. In July 1947 Viktor received a letter from a Polish woman who reported that Rudolf was alive and \"working as an engineer\". His ex-wife, Ursula, wrote to Viktor in August 1947 that she had also received a letter from Poland: \"He is a prisoner for five years, but works in his profession. (...) I do not know when the five years will be over. She has been in the same camp with him from July 1945 to December 1946\". At this time Hamburger himself was being held at Karaganda in Kazakhstan, and the letters from Poland evidently predated his second sentencing in May 1949.\n\nIn October 1953 the US embassy in Bonn received a letter from a man called Josef Dauns who was former inmate of the Soviet labour camps. He was trying to contact Rudolf's brother, Viktor, in Missouri. He reported on his meeting with Rudolf Hamburger at Camp Kama in 1950. The letter was translated into English, presumably by embassy staff, and the translation passed to the State Department in Washington DC. In November 1953 a deputy director at the State Department wrote to Viktor Hamburger in St.Louis. The letter asked, in passing, if Rudolf Hamburger was a US citizen and if this could be evidenced. If he was and it could, the State Department would approach the Soviet government with an appeal to release Rudolf Hamburger. In February 1954 Josef Dauns sent another letter, this time directly to Viktor Hamburger, in which he spelled out in greater detail the circumstances of his meeting with Rudolf Hamburger. They had met early in 1951 at Camp Kama in the North Urals. Dauns wrote that Hamburger had been sentenced to 25 years of hard labour for espionage. It is unclear where the notion of a 25 year sentence - for which there is no other known source - came from.\n\nIt was probably towards the end of 1952 or early in 1953, after nine and a half years in Soviet custody, that Rudolf Hamburger was released. \"Release\" was relative, however. He was permitted to name the place, within the Soviet Union, to which he wished to be released. He had been given no advanced notice of this development and had to think very fast. Simply leaving the country was not an available option. The Soviet Union's great cities were also off limits. \"Every other detainee knew, without a map, where he wanted to go. Home. I expressed the same wish, but it was made clear that this would involve a 'number of formalities'\". He was stateless, he was not a prisoner of war and he was not even a former party member. Any attempt to organise permission to leave the country would take time, and in the mean time he \"had to live somewhere.\"\n\nOn his release Hamburger moved to a small Ukrainian city where he lodged with a farmer's wife identified as \"Galja\". It can be inferred that the city was Millerovo, which today is part of Russia, and an important railway junction along the route between Rostov-on-Don and Moscow, close to the frontier dividing Russia from Ukraine. He was employed there in the Buildings Department of the Ministry of Food. Later in 1953 he was moved to Kamensk, 80 km (50 miles) to the south along the main railway line towards Rostov, where he was installed as a construction site manager for the Ministry of Coal. Later, in April 1955, the ministry appointed him to a position as an architect. In 1957, by which time he had returned to the German Democratic Republic, he published a memoir of his time at Kamensk in a volume published to celebrate the \"40th Anniversary Celebration of the Great October Revolution\". His contribution appeared with others from East German architects who had visited the Soviet Union only as tourists. Naturally there was no question of Hamburger's piece expressly mentioning his labour camp experience, but his contribution was set apart from the others by some interesting insights and nuances. He did refer to his experiences of the vast industrial buildings erected in the Donets basin and implicitly referred back to some of the things he had seen as a prisoner. He wrote about the dreadful work conditions when ambient temperatures fell below -30 °C, and expressed fulsome respect for the women's brigades used in the earthworks.\n\nThe map had changed in 1945. What had been the eastern third of the country, including Silesia where Rudolf Hamburger had grown up, had been subjected to industrial scale ethnic cleansing and then transferred to Poland, compensating for the eastern part of Poland which now became part of the Soviet Union. The middle third of Germany was administered between 1945 and 1949 as the Soviet occupation zone and then relaunched as the Soviet sponsored German Democratic Republic (East Germany). Dresden where he had been a student was now in East Germany and it was to East Germany that his ex-wife had hastily relocated from her Oxfordshire village home at the end of 1949 when she thought she was about to be arrested by British intelligence. Following his release from his last labour camp in 1952/53 Rudolf Hamburger tried to re-establish contact with his old friends and colleagues in what was now the German Democratic Republic. He was able to enter into a correspondence with his ex-wife, but further contact outside the Soviet Union was not so easy. Former political prisoners were not permitted to contact friends and relatives outside the Soviet Union, and his correspondence was naturally monitored.\n\nAfter his return to East Germany in 1955 the Ministry for State Security applied to their Soviet colleagues for a report on Hamburger in connection with his application for membership of East Germany's ruling Socialist Unity Party (SED). The report came back, \"When he was living in the Rostov area as a released prisoner, Hamburger attempted illegally to contact living relatives and acquaintances living in the USA, England and East Germany. At the same time he was in regular contact by letter with his wife, Kutschinskaja alias Berton Ursula (sic), who resides in the East German sector of Berlin\".\n\nIn February 1954, still in Kamensk, Rudolf Hamburger managed to get a letter through to who had returned to East Berlin from Shanghai in 1949. Eighteen months earlier, in August/September 1952, the two former Poelzig student Richard Paulick and had travelled as part of a delegation of East German architects undertaking a round trip of the Soviet Union. The trip had taken them to Stalingrad, Rostov and the Black Sea resort of Sochi. That meant they had been n the region where Rudolf Hamburger was living. At some stage Rudolf Hamburg picked up a copy of Pravda and read about the East German architects' visit. The article mentioned that Paulick was part of the delegation, indicating that he had now returned from China to the German Democratic Republic. This is what had prompted Hamburger's attempts, pursued with characteristic doggedness, to contact his old friend. It appears from surviving correspondence that Paulick's further letters to Hamburger while he was still in Kamensk were delivered as additions to letters from Ursula, his ex-wife, which seems to have increased the probability of delivery. There was a large amount of paper work to be organised in East Germany, which may have included restitution of his German nationality which had lapsed while he was in Switzerland in 1939. Between them Richard Paulick and Ursula Beurton (as she was, by this time, formally known) arranged Rudolf Hamburger's home-coming to the German Democratic Republic. Surviving correspondence indicates that Paulick and Hamburger both thought he would be able to return to East Germany, possibly via Moscow, in the early summer of 1954, but in the end it was only in July 1955 that he as back in East Germany. Rudolf Hamburger did not fit neatly into any of the \"usual categories\". The Soviets did not imprison him as a prisoner of war. He had never actually been a member of the Communist Party. He was not one of those who had emigrated as a political refugee directly from Nazi Germany to Moscow in the 1930s. The unexpected delay may very well have resulted from nothing more significant that the inability of the responsible bureaucrats to decide how to classify him.\n\nOn his arrival in East Germany Hamburger lived, from 5 July 1955, as a tenant at the Berlin apartment of his friend . He remained there only for a couple of weeks. By the middle of August he had taken a job as a Chief Architect with the Dresden city authorities. He immediately applied for membership of the ruling Socialist Unity Party (\"Sozialistische Einheitspartei Deutschlands\" / SED). That proved anything but easy to process, however. He needed to find two sponsors for his party membership and the Ministry for State Security needed to investigate him to make sure he did not have any guilty secrets in his history. There is no sign that Hamburger was ever anything other than firmly opposed to Nazism. However, he had lived outside Germany since 1930, and much of his more exotic international travel had been undertaken on behalf of Soviet intelligence: most of the \"usual sources\" on political involvement between 1930 and 1955 were not applicable or not accessible, even to East German state agencies. Initially he tried to obtain sponsorship for party membership from friends and former fellow students of architecture who had known him since they studied together in Berlin in the 1920s, but in the end it was his ex-wife (by now known most frequently as \"Ursula Beurton\" or by the pseudonym under which she was reinventing herself as an author, \"Ruth Werner\") whose information persuaded the authorities to progress his party membership application. Rudolf Hamburger received his card as a \"candidate for party membership\" in March 1956. In September 1956 the 135th meeting of the \"Central Party Control Commission\" dealt with review and verification of 19 comrades recently returned from the Soviet Union whose had been listed as candidate party members. For 18 of the 19 comrades the minutes of the session contain much detailed information on life histories, but for Rudolf Hamburger the information recorded is restricted to his address and one or two basic personal details. This may have reflected the sensitive nature of some of the relevant sources. Ministry for State Security files on Hamburger refer to information held by the Party Central Committee or \"elsewhere\", without spelling out more detail, beyond the high level statement that he was \"active in the anti-fascist movement\" and had been accepted for membership by the Party Central Committee. Rudolf Hamburger was accepted as a full party member in March 1958. Rudolf Hamburger made his home in Dresden.\n\nImportant projects he directed while employed by the city authorities in Dresden included the \"Industry Project II\" (\"Industrieprojektierung Dresden II\") (1956) and the Reed Processing Collective in Romania (\"Schilfzellstoffkombinat in Rumänien\"). In 1959 he started a new job, now working as deputy to his friend on the major residential developments (\"Aufbau der 2. Sozialistischen Wohnstadt\") at Hoyerswerda, a large new town development a short distance to the east of Dresden. He retired, formally, in 1963. After that he took several lengthy trips as a passenger on freight ships. This enabled to revisit his old haunts in Shanghai, and to meet up again with his brothers Otto and Viktor. He also undertook one or two further architecture commissions, now on a freelance basis. The most important of these was refurbishment of the interior of the East German embassy in Pyongyang.\n\nDiscussion of Rudolf Hamburger's life story was always a political taboo in East Germany. There was no wish on the part of the authorities to discuss the lengthy detention in Soviet labour camps of a German comrade whose political credentials were beyond reproach. Because of this, there was, in addition, never any public awareness or discussion of his pioneering work as an architect in Shanghai during the 1930s. Nevertheless, after he retired Rudolf Hamburger began to compile an autobiographical volume detailing his experiences between 1930 and 1955. He was, as he himself insisted, not a natural author, but he nevertheless had a compelling series of tales to tell. The detailed nature of what he write has led some to suggest that he had managed to keep and then to smuggle out notes of his experiences in Shanghai, Tehran, and then in the Soviet labour camps. Whether or not he had kept contemporaneous notes, the detailed nature of what he wrote down - not withstanding certain minor inconsistencies regarding dates - indicate that he was blessed with a formidable memory. Although there could be no question of publishing such a volume in East Germany, he did attempt to arrange for its publication in West Germany, but by the 1970s the fashion for \"labour camp literature\" was already passing, and a western publisher was not found at that time.\n\nUrsula Kuczynski (Ruth Werner) had also performed her espionage activities under conditions of great secrecy till 1950, but after the trial of Klaus Fuchs it became impossible to pretend that she had not been a spy. She had, indeed, been an exceptionally effective spy. In 1977, using the pseudonym \"Ruth Werner\", Ursula published her autobiographical book \"Sonjas Rapport\" in East Germany. In most cases she avoided mention of people with whom she had worked who were still alive, and even when an \"uncensored version\" appeared in 2006, very many question remained unanswered. His ex-wife's memoire nevertheless gave a remarkably candid insight into her espionage career after 1930. And in view of his close involvement it had evidently been impossible for her to avoid including her first husband, Rudolf Hamburger, in the text. The book was a great commercial success. Several hundred thousand copies were sold. The East German authorities invited Rudolf Hamburger to exploit his new-found fame (if only as a bit-part player in his wife's success) by producing a volume of his own, but what was envisaged was a piece of propaganda controlled by the government, and Hamburger rejected the offer with an uncharacteristic absence of courtesy. He was nevertheless furious that Ursula's book concentrated on Ursula's espionage success. He felt that it unjustifiably played down his own contribution to their espionage partnership between 1930 and 1940. It may very well be that after this he redoubled his own work on an autobiographical work of his own, although there seemed very little prospect that it could ever be published.\n\nRudolf Hamburger died at Dresden on 1 December 1980. His body was buried in a place of honour in the city's , close to the graves of Hans and Lea Grundig. Ten years later, as the Soviet Union approached the final flight path to implosion, Hamburger was posthumously rehabilitated by Moscow in 1990. Till now there had been powerful institutional barriers preventing Rudolf Hamburger's footprint from appearing in the historical record except as a footnote in his wife's remarkable story. After 1990 many of those institutional barriers had fallen away.\n\nIn 2006 Eduard Kögel presented his doctoral dissertation on \"Two of Poelzig's students who emigrated: Rudolf Hamburger and Richard Paulick, between Shanghai and East Berlin\". As regards Rudolf Hamburger, the compilation drew together Hamburger's own unpublished drafts, numerous letters that he received and wrote, and various references to him in works on people with whom he had interacted between 1930 and 1955. The result was a coherent critical chronology. In 2013, more than three decades after Rudolf Hamburger's death, his own autobiographical work was finally published, with a lengthy introduction by Hamburger's son, the Shakespeare scholar , who is identified as producer of the volume.\n"}
{"id": "53612223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53612223", "title": "Sa'd (deity)", "text": "Sa'd (deity)\n\nSa'd was a god of fortune in pre-Islamic Arabia, by the Banu Kinanah tribe.\n\nHis cult image was a tall stone and was situated in the desert.\n\nAccording to Ibn Ishaq, a man once visited this cult image with his many camels for blessings. Upon reaching the idol, which was blood-stained by the animal offerings of the time, the camels ran away. Angered, the man threw a stone at the idol, hoping that Allah will not bless the idol, and set out to find them. After all camels are gathered, he declared: We came to Sa`d so he may unite us together, \nBut Sa`d disunited us, so we have nothing to do with Sa`d.\nIs Sa`d anything but a stone in a plain of land \nThat calls for neither misguidance nor guidance?\nMuhammad al-Baqir narrated to his companion, Abdul Raheem al-Qaseer, that following the death of Muhammad, the people of Arabia reverted to old habits, leaving the \"Helpers\" (supporters of Islam) in isolation. They pledged allegiance to Sa'd, shouting slogans from the days of Jahiliyyah: \"O Sa'd, you are the hope, and you are the vessel, and the solution!\"\n"}
{"id": "7769367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7769367", "title": "Sacramental wine", "text": "Sacramental wine\n\nSacramental wine, Communion wine, or altar wine is wine obtained from grapes and intended for use in celebration of the Eucharist (also referred to as the Lord's Supper or Holy Communion, among other names). It is usually consumed after sacramental bread, although historically the wine was reserved for clergy.\n\nWine was used in the earliest celebrations of the Lord's Supper. Paul the Apostle writes in :\nIn the Early Church both clergy and laity received the consecrated wine by drinking from the chalice, after receiving a portion of the consecrated bread. Due to many factors, including the difficulty of obtaining wine in Northern European countries (where the climate was unsuitable for viniculture), drinking from the chalice became largely restricted in the West to the celebrating priest, while others received communion only in the form of bread. This also reduced the symbolic importance of choosing wine of red colour.\n\nGroups which arose from the Protestant Reformation, such as the Lutheran Church, insisted on use of wine in celebrating the Lord's Supper. As a reaction to this, even in Western European countries that, while remaining Roman Catholic, had continued to give the chalice to the laity, this practice disappeared in order to emphasise the Catholic belief that Christ is wholly present under either form. \n\nEastern Churches in full communion with the Holy See continued to give the Eucharist to the faithful under both forms. The twentieth century, especially after the Second Vatican Council, saw a return to more widespread sharing in the Eucharist under the forms of both bread and wine. In the Anglican Communion (of which the Church of England and the Episcopal Church of the United States of America are members), the use of wine is obligatory in the celebration of Holy Communion; however, a person receiving communion makes a valid communion even if they receive only in one kind i.e. either just the bread or just the wine. For example, a sick person who can only take liquids makes a valid communion by receiving the wine.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church, the clergy continued to receive the consecrated wine by drinking directly from the chalice, but in order to avoid the danger of accidentally spilling some of the Blood of Christ the practice was developed of placing the consecrated Body of Christ in the chalice and administering Holy Communion to the faithful, under both species, with a sacramental spoon.\n\nThe Coptic Orthodox Church continues the ancient practice to this day.\n\nThe majority of mainstream liturgical churches require that sacramental wine should be pure grape wine. In the Eastern Orthodox Church, for example, sacramental wine used in the Divine Liturgy must usually be fermented pure red grape wine, often sweet, though this is not required. Greek churches favour the use of Mavrodaphne or Nama, while Russian churches favour Kagor. Wines with additives, such as retsina, are not allowed.\n\nHowever, some Christian churches disapprove of the consumption of alcohol, especially by children, and hold that it is acceptable to substitute grape juice for wine (see Christian views on alcohol). These denominations include Pentecostals, Baptists, Methodists, some Churches of Christ, and other Evangelical groups. In this case generally only pasteurized grape juice is used, though exceptions exist.\n\nIn Eastern Christianity sacramental wine is usually red, to better symbolize its change from wine into the blood of Jesus Christ, as is believed to happen at the Eucharist.\n\nIn Western Christianity, white wine is also sometimes used for the practical purpose of avoiding stains on the altar cloths.\n\nIn most liturgical rites, such as the Roman, Byzantine, Antiochene, and Alexandrian, a small quantity of water is added to the wine when the chalice is prepared, while in the Armenian Rite the wine is consecrated without the previous mingling of water. In the Byzantine Rite some warm water, referred to as the \"zeon\" (Greek: \"boiling\"), is added to the consecrated wine shortly before the Communion. Originally common practice in the ancient Mediterranean, this ritual has been accorded multiple symbolic meanings, such as the mystery of Christ's human and divine natures, his unity with the Church, and the flow of blood and water from Christ's side at his death.\n\nOver the centuries, various criteria were laid down for wine to be appropriate for use in the Eucharist. Editions of the Tridentine Roman Missal had a section \"De Defectibus\" on defects which could occur in the celebration of Mass, including defects of the wine. Canon 924 of the present Code of Canon Law (1983) states: \n\n§1 The most holy Sacrifice of the Eucharist must be celebrated in bread, and in wine to which a small quantity of water is to be added. \n§2 The bread must be wheaten only, and recently made, so that there is no danger of corruption.\n§3 The wine must be natural, made from grapes of the vine, and not corrupt.\n\nThis means that the wine must be naturally fermented with nothing added to it, and the wine itself cannot have soured or become vinegar, nor can it have anything artificial added to it (preservatives, flavours). Wines are made from \"Vitis vinifera\" grapes. While the Catholic Church generally adheres to the rule that all wine for sacramental use must be pure grape wine and alcoholic, it is accepted that there are some circumstances, where the priest is an alcoholic for example, where it may be necessary to use a wine that is only minimally fermented, called \"mustum\".\n\nOne exception was historically made regarding wine-derived additives to wine. An 1896 directive of the Congregation of the Inquisition stated:\n\nTo conserve weak and feeble wines, and in order to keep them from souring or spoiling during transportation, a small quantity of spirits of wine (grape brandy or alcohol) may be added, provided the following conditions are observed:\nSome purveyors of sacramental wine for use in the Catholic Church currently use the following private \"responsum\" as license to add sulfites to sacramental wine as a preservative:\n\n\"Mass Wine: Treated with Sulphurous Anhydride, Etc. (Holy Office) Private.\n\nThe Holy Office was asked by the Archbishop of Tarracona: Whether in the Sacrifice of the Mass, wine may be used which is made from the juice of the grape, treated with sulphurous anhydride or with potassium bisulphite.\n\nReply. In the affirmative.\n\n(Private) ; Holy Office, 2 Aug., 1922.\n\nNot published in the AAS; cf. Il Monitore, Oct., 1923, p. 289.\"\n\nIn the Roman Rite of the Catholic Church, Communion is administered under the form of wine either by the communicant drinking directly from the chalice or by intinction. In the latter manner, the priest partially dips the consecrated bread into the consecrated wine and then places it in the mouth of the communicant.\n\nEditions of the Roman Missal issued between 1970 and 2000 envisaged also use of a silver tube (Latin: \"fistula\") with which, as with a \"straw\", to drink from the chalice, or of a spoon as in the Byzantine Rite.\n\nIn the Byzantine Rite of the Eastern Orthodox Church and some Eastern Catholic Churches the normal method is to use a spoon to give the communicant some of the consecrated wine together with a portion of the consecrated bread that has been placed in the chalice.\n\nIn the Anglican Church, the wine is normally consumed with each communicant receiving a small sip of it as the chalice is held by another person. This is often referred to as \"the common cup\". Increasingly common is the custom of intinction whereby a communicant receives the consecrated bread in the form of a wafer and then dips this into the consecrated wine.\n\nIn some Protestant churches each communicant drinks from a small individual cup.\n\nThroughout the world there are some wineries that exist either solely for the production of sacramental wines, or with sacramental wines as an auxiliary business. The same is true of wine used by other religions, \"e.g.\", kosher wine. These wineries are small and often run by religious brothers, priests or dedicated laity.\n\nIn Australia, for example, Australian Jesuits founded the oldest existing winery in the Clare Valley in 1851 to make sacramental wines. Producing over 90,000 litres of wine annually, this winery supplies all of the Australian region's sacramental wine needs. The oldest still-producing vineyard founded for sacramental wine production in the United States is O-Neh-Da Vineyard in the Finger Lakes Wine Region of New York State, founded by Bishop Bernard J. McQuaid in 1872.\n\n"}
{"id": "48397700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48397700", "title": "Scientology and gender", "text": "Scientology and gender\n\nThis article discusses scientology and gender.\n\nIn his book \"Scientology: A New Slant on Life\", Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard wrote the following passage:\nIn the same book, he also wrote:\n\nThese passages, along with other ones of a similar nature from Hubbard, have been criticized by Alan Scherstuhl of \"The Village Voice\" as expressions of hatred towards women. However, Baylor University professor J. Gordon Melton has written that Hubbard later disregarded and abrogated much of his earlier views about women, which Melton views as merely echoes of common prejudices at the time. Melton has also stated that the Church of Scientology welcomes both genders equally at all levels—from leadership positions to auditing and so on—since Scientologists view people as spiritual beings.\n\nThe book \"\" by L. Ron Hubbard does not use gender-neutral language.\n\nL. Ron Hubbard's discussion of abortion in his 1950 book \"\" states that abortion and attempts at abortion could cause trauma to the fetus and to the mother in both spiritual and physical ways. Scientologists came to believe that attempted abortions could cause traumatic experiences felt by the fetus, which would later be remembered as memories referred to in Scientology as \"engrams\". In the Scientology technique called Auditing, Scientologists are frequently queried regarding their sexual feelings and behaviors. These questions about Scientologists' sexual behavior are often posed to members during \"security checks\", a specific form of auditing sessions where individuals are required to document their divergence from the organization's ethics. One of the questions asked in these security checks is, \"Have you ever been involved in an abortion?\". In contrast, it has been alleged that if a woman gets pregnant while in the Scientologist organization called Sea Org, she will either be sent to a lower-level organization of Scientology, or be pressured to have an abortion.\n\nThe Traditional scientology wedding ceremony includes these remarks on men and women:\n\nSilent birth, sometimes known as quiet birth, is a birthing procedure advised by L. Ron Hubbard and advocated by Scientologists in which \"everyone attending the birth should refrain from spoken words as much as possible\" and where \"... chatty doctors and nurses, shouts to 'PUSH, PUSH' and loud or laughing remarks to 'encourage' are avoided\". According to Scientology doctrine, this is because \"any words spoken are recorded in the reactive mind and can have an aberrative effect on the mother and the child.\" There have been no attempts to prove this medically or scientifically.\n\nHubbard warned against sexual activity (including masturbation) during pregnancy, on premise that sexual activity during pregnancy could damage fetal development, as by producing engrams detrimental to future activity. This view is disputed by some doctors, as Paulette Cooper commented in her book \"The Scandal of Scientology\":\nThese same beliefs form the basis for Hubbard's Silent birth doctrine. According to a Scientology manual on raising children, a couple should be silent before and after coition.\n\nRoy Wallis, in 1976 wrote in \"The Road to Total Freedom\" that the Scientologist population was 59% male and 41% female, a number referenced on \"The Auditor\", a publication of the Church of Scientology. In 1988, a participant observer study from the University of Copenhagen showed that the average participant in the Church of Scientology Copenhagen was a 35-year-old man. Though the numbers are not great in disparity, “they provide non-census evidence supporting the contention that more men than women become member of CoS,” Tollefson and Lewis write.\n\n"}
{"id": "11222782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11222782", "title": "Scientology and sex", "text": "Scientology and sex\n\nThe beliefs and practices of Scientology include material related to sex and the rearing of children, which collectively form the Second Dynamic (urge toward survival) in Scientology. These beliefs and practices are based on the written works of Church of Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard.\n\nIn Hubbard's original Dynamics, \"Sex\" was the Second Dynamic, representing both the sexual act and the family unit. According to \"Reuters\": \"The second dynamic includes all creative activity, including sex, procreating and the raising of children.\"\n\nIn 1982 Hubbard authored \"Pain and Sex\", in which he ascribes misbehavior to psychiatrists (abbreviated \"psychs\"), in that under the \"false data of the psychs ... both pain and sex are gaining ground in this society and, coupled with robbery (which is a hooded companion of both), may very well soon make the land a true jungle of crime\". Beyond this, in this same bulletin, Hubbard states that pain and sex are both \"invented tools of degradation\" by \"destructive creatures\" with the intention \"to shrink people and cut their alertness, knowingness, power and reach\".\n\nIn 1950 Hubbard published \"\", wherein he classified homosexuality as an illness or sexual perversion. According to Jeffrey S. Siker in \"Homosexuality and Religion\", this was within the mainstream of opinion at the time.\n\nHubbard's emotional tone scale, classifying individuals and human behaviour on a chart running from +40 (the most beneficial) to -40 (the least beneficial), gave sexual perversions a score of 1.1, \"the level of the pervert, the hypocrite, the turncoat, ... the subversive\". Such people, he argued, were \"skulking coward[s] who yet contain[] enough perfidious energy to strike back, but not enough courage ever to give warning\".\n\nHubbard warned against sexual activity (including masturbation) during pregnancy, on premise that sexual activity during pregnancy could damage fetal development, as by producing engrams detrimental to future activity. This view is disputed by some doctors, as Paulette Cooper commented in her book \"The Scandal of Scientology\":\nThese same beliefs form the basis for Hubbard's \"Silent birth\" doctrine, which dictates that no words are spoken during the childbirth process. According to a Scientology manual on raising children, a couple should be silent before and after coition.\n\nIn the 1967 book \"The Dynamics of Life\" (originally written circa 1948), Hubbard states that \"promiscuity inevitably and invariably indicates a sexual engram of great magnitude. Once that engram is removed, promiscuity can be expected to cease\". A footnote then defines promiscuity as \"having sexual relations with many people\". Hubbard writes in his book \"The Way to Happiness\" that if sex is \"misused or abused, carries with it heavy penalties and punishments: nature seems to have intended it that way also\".\n\nIn later years, Hubbard sought to distance himself from efforts to regulate the sexual affairs of Scientologists. In a 1967 policy letter, he declared: \"It has never been any part of my plans to regulate or to attempt to regulate the private lives of individuals. Whenever this has occurred, it has not resulted in any improved condition ... Therefore all former rules, regulations and policies relating to the sexual activities of Scientologists are cancelled.\"\n\nIn an interview with \"Playboy\" magazine, Hubbard's estranged son Ronald DeWolf asserted that Auditing focused on sex and the individual's sex life, and could later be used as a form of control: \"Auditing would address a guy's entire sex life. It was an incredible preoccupation. ... You have complete control over someone if you have every detail of his sex life and fantasy life on record. In Scientology the focus is on sex. Sex, sex, sex. The first thing we wanted to know about someone we were auditing was his sexual deviations. All you've got to do is find a person's kinks, whatever they might be. Their dreams and fantasies. Then you can fit a ring through their noses and take them anywhere. You promise to fulfill their fantasies or you threaten to expose them ... very simple.\"\n\nHubbard called the physical world MEST (an acronym of \"Matter, Energy, Space and Time\"), which thetans (souls) temporarily operating \"meat bodies\" are meant to transcend and conquer. New recruits to the church are often classified as \"raw meat\" or \"raw public\".Scientologists refer to their bodies as \"meat bodies\".\n\nScientology emphasizes attaining \"cause over MEST\", and attaining the ability to abandon one's body via \"exteriorization\" and ultimately by becoming an Operating Thetan Clear and a Cleared Theta Clear.\n\n"}
{"id": "4512370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4512370", "title": "Septimus J. Hanna", "text": "Septimus J. Hanna\n\nSeptimus James Hanna (July 29, 1845 – July 23, 1921), an American Civil War veteran and a judge in the Old West. He was a student of Mary Baker Eddy, who founded the Christian Science church. Giving up his legal career, he became a Christian Science practitioner, lecturer and teacher. Hanna occupied more leading positions within the church organization than any individual, serving as pastor, then First Reader of The Mother Church, as editor and associate editor of the periodicals, member of the Bible Lesson Committee, he served two terms as president of The Mother Church, he was teacher of the Normal (teachers) Class of 1907, later vice president and then president of the Massachusetts Metaphysical College.\n\nHanna's grandfather, Andrew Hanna, a Presbyterian from Scotland emigrated to the United States after the American Revolutionary War and bought land in Penns Valley in Pennsylvania. He served in the War of 1812 and was in a battle that was part of the Battle of Lake Erie. He married a daughter of James Cook, a Federalist once described as \"a tall, dignified gentleman ... a man of large means.\" Hanna's father, Samuel Cook Hanna, a farmer, was born in 1808 in Centre County, Pennsylvania, and spent his boyhood there. His father was an active member of the Methodist church and served as superintendent of the Sunday school. A history of the Spring Mills Sunday School noted about him, \"His words were few and always spoken with gentleness, but his life had a power whose influence was deep and abiding.\"\n\nHis mother, Susanna Miles, was descended from a Baptist family who came from Radnor, Wales, with William Penn in \"Ye Good Shippe Welcome\" to become among the earliest settlers of Philadelphia and was related to Samuel Miles, a militia general in the Revolutionary War, one of Philadelphia's early mayors and a judge of the High Court of Errors and Appeals. His brother, Richard, a captain in the Revolutionary War, was Hanna' s grandfather.\n\nSeptimus J. Hanna was born one of ten children, to Susanna (née Miles) and Samuel Cook Hanna in Spring Mills, Pennsylvania on July 29, 1845. The family moved from Center County to Cochranton in Crawford County in western Pennsylvania. His parents were of different religious backgrounds, Scottish-Presbyterian (his father) and Baptist (his mother). Together, they joined the Methodist Episcopal church, where they were active members.\n\nHe attended public school there and later, went to Meadville Academy. The onset of war prevented his further education. At the age of eighteen, Hanna enlisted as Stephen J. Hanna in Company H, 138th Illinois Volunteer Infantry, composed largely of soldiers of his own age. He was unanimously elected its captain during the last year of the Civil War.\n\nHanna resumed his education after the war, studying law. He was admitted to the Illinois bar in 1866. Later, he moved to Council Bluffs, Iowa, where on September 21, 1869, he married Camilla Turley, a daughter of a prominent citizen there. He began his law practice in Council Bluffs as part of the firm Sapp, Lyman, and Hanna. At the end of his first year, when he was 23, he was appointed judge of the County Court, then in Council Bluffs. He held the office one and a half years and later served as city attorney for several years. He also served as deputy United States district attorney.\n\nIn 1872, the offer of a partnership brought Hanna to Chicago, where he practiced law until late 1879, when failing health caused him to move to Colorado. Settling in the town of Leadville, he worked as a lawyer and register in the U.S. land office. He was register of the United States Land Office in Leadville from 1882 to 1886, after which he practiced law from 1886 to 1890. While in Iowa and Colorado, Hanna took an active interest in politics, supporting the Republican Party, then a young political party.\n\nHanna and his wife first heard of Christian Science in Leadville in 1885 when two of her friends in Council Bluff said they were healed by it. His wife, then a semi-invalid, began to look into the new religion. In 1886, she received a copy of the Christian Science textbook, which she studied and saw her health restored. This led Hanna to begin his own investigation of the religion. His reading left him impressed with what he saw as its logic, but he was unable to grasp the book's meaning in its entirety. Although the drier Colorado climate had alleviated some of his health problems, he was not completely recovered. A woman living in New Hampshire helped him in Christian Science and he recovered, becoming so impressed with the experience, that he began a \"systematic study\" of the religion's textbook.\n\nIn 1890, after studying Christian Science about four years, Hanna left his legal practice to devote himself to \"the Cause of Christian Science\", although he had no plan of how to proceed. In May 1890, there was a three-day meeting of Mary Baker Eddy's students held in New York City, the fifth annual meeting of the National Christian Science Association and the Hannas decided to attend. While there, Septimus Hanna was invited to take charge of a society of Christian Scientists in Scranton, Pennsylvania. After visiting Scranton, he accepted the invitation, marking the beginning of his career in Christian Science.\n\nDuring this period, Hanna and his wife were invited to meet Eddy, then living in the Boston neighborhood of Roslindale. He was deeply impressed by her vitality and her spirituality, as well as her interest in world affairs. Speaking of her later in a lecture given in Malden, Massachusetts, Hanna said, \"I can truthfully say that intellectually she is one of the most alert persons I have ever known; that she labors incessantly and unselfishly for the cause to which she has devoted her life, and that, notwithstanding her years, she performs an amount of labor each day which if known would seem incredible, even if done by one yet in the adolescence of life.\"\n\nThe Hannas worked in Scranton until autumn 1892, when Eddy appointed Septimus Hanna editor of the \"Christian Science Journal\", and his wife assistant editor. A move to Boston followed.\n\nDuring the years the Hannas were in Boston, the church organization was taking shape and Hanna served in several key positions. In early 1893, in addition to editing the \"Journal\", Hanna was called to become pastor of The Mother Church. He was also chosen by Eddy to read her address to the World's Parliament of Religions in Chicago. In 1894, the Bible and the Christian Science textbook were ordained as the \"impersonal pastor\"; with changes in the church service, Hanna became First Reader. In 1895, around the time the \"Manual of The Mother Church\" was published, Eddy wrote a letter to Hanna describing the work of establishing the by-laws that would govern the church, a portion of which was later published in her book \"Miscellaneous Writings\" and in the front of the \"Manual\", before the table of contents.\n\nEddy was reported to have called him \"morally statuesque\" and in a letter to him, she called him \"a born editor\". In a letter to her just over two months later in April 1896, he questioned a proposed raise in his salary, fearing the increase could be a corrupting influence on his character. When a weekly periodical, the \"Christian Science Sentinel\" began publication in September 1898, Hanna's editorial duties were extended to include the \"Sentinel\", as were those of his wife. Also, in 1898, Hanna was made vice-president of the Massachusetts Metaphysical College, when Eddy established a Board of Education to continue the work of the closed institution. When she taught her last class that same year, Hanna and his wife were invited to attend; both received \"the degree of C.S.D.\" by Eddy.\n\nHe continued in these positions until 1902, when he became a member of the Board of Lectureship at Eddy's request. His assigned region being in the western United States and a new church by-law setting a three-year term to the First Reader, Hanna resigned his other positions in June. His wife resigned as well.\n\nThe Hannas decided to leave Boston and return to the west, moving to Colorado Springs, Colorado, which they though would be a good central location for them in his work as a Christian Science lecturer.\n\nHanna's lectures were compared to legal arguments and to a judge's charge to a jury. He remained on the lecture circuit until 1914, lecturing in the United States, British Isles, and Canada.\n\nIn 1907, at Eddy's request, Hanna taught the \"normal class\", the course that trains new teachers of Christian Science. Hanna was the third person to teach the course, aside from Eddy herself. Aside from the few pupils he had taught in Scranton before moving to Boston, Hanna had not taught Christian Science and was surprised by the request and was initially uncertain about accepting the invitation. His own first primary class was held the following year, in August 1908.\n\nWhen Eddy died in 1910, Hanna, became president of the Massachusetts Metaphysical College. He was the only person to serve as president other than Eddy and was re-appointed president every year for the rest of his life.\n\nIn autumn 1911, they moved to Pasadena, California and built a house on the corner of Oakland Avenue and Fillmore Street. In 1914, Hanna resigned from the Board of Lectureship; he continued to conduct his annual primary class instruction and association meeting until his death in 1921. For many years, Judge Hanna was a member of the National Geographic Society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39795582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39795582", "title": "Shivneri Caves", "text": "Shivneri Caves\n\nThe Shivneri Caves (शिवनेरी लेणी) are artificial caves dug for Buddhist monks circa the 1st century CE. They are located on Shivneri Hill, about 2km Southwest of Junnar, India. Other caves around the city of Junnar are: Manmodi caves, Lenyadri, and the Tulja Caves.\n\nThe Shivneri Buddhist caves are located near Shivneri Fort on the top of the hill, where Shivaji was born. It is a group of 60 caves that were dug in the first part of the 1st century CE. At the beginning of the 2nd century CE, these caves were a flourishing center of Buddhist activities. The caves are essentially made of viharas or small cells, but there are also chaityas. The caves are scattered on three sides of the west-east-south triangle formed by Shivneri Mountain.\n\nThe caves are scattered around the hill, and categorized into several groups: the East group (1, 2 and 3), the West group, and the South group. Among the most important caves, we can mention:\n\nCave 47 is on the south face of Shivneri (). It is one of the most remarkable Chaityas of the group. Inside are two rounded pillars and tiered capitals, similar to those found in Nasik (Pandavleni Caves). The hall measures 9.9x6.5m, and has a height of 5.8m. The cave contains a very beautiful stūpa with a \"rail pattern\" at the top). It is surmounted by a parasol. The ceiling is painted in color, consisting of squares in which are concentric circles of color (orange, brown and white).\n\nThe chaitya has on its outer face the dedicatory inscription of a merchant:\n\nTwo Buddhist inscriptions made by Yavanas (Indo-Greeks) were found in Shivneri. They suggest the involvement of men of Greek descent with Buddhism in India, as well as the continued presence and gradual acculturation of the Greeks in India in the 1st century CE. \n\n\nThe inscription starts with the Buddhist symbol of the swastika (non-inverted), just before the word \"Yavanasa\".\n\n\nOn this second inscription, the Buddhist symbols of the triratna and of the swastika (reversed) are positionned on both sides of the first word \"Yavanasa\".\n\nOther similar inscriptions mentioning donations from Yavanas have been found at Karla Caves, Pandavleni Caves, as well as Manmodi caves.\n"}
{"id": "14063048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14063048", "title": "Tui bei tu", "text": "Tui bei tu\n\nTui bei tu () is a Chinese prophecy book from the 7th-century Tang dynasty. The book is known for predicting the future of China, and is written by Li Chunfeng and Yuan Tiangang (袁天罡). It has been compared to the works of famous western prophet Nostradamus. Well known in Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan, it was long banned in the People's Republic of China under the Communist party for superstition (one of the “Four Olds”), though it has since re-appeared in street-side book stalls in the 1990s as a bestseller.\n\nThe book is supposed to contain clues to China's future conveyed through a series of 60 surreal drawings, each accompanied by an equally obscure poem. The title means \"Back-Pushing Sketch\" and comes from the last illustration.\n\nEach poem is a prophecy, which describes a Chinese historical event that will occur in order. For example, the 36th poem should occur before the 40th poem. Poem number 60 is the last prophecy. Some sources have said that out of the 60 prophecies, 55 of them are supposed to have already been fulfilled. Though just like Nostradamus's work, the interpretations largely depend on the individuals. Some scholars compared the different versions and found the book has been rewritten many times.\n\nThe most unimaginable part is the name. Characters of each name are spelled out exactly. It seems not a big deal for the techniques they used, if they wish. We cannot do the same only from star map. This precise information overwhelms all the other prophecies, past and current.\n\nDuring the end-of-dynasty turmoil, rebels used it to prophesize victory for their cause and thereby drum up public support. As the introduction to one mainland China version of the book explained, \"Tui Bei Tu\" is a way of shaping public opinion used by feudal rulers to seize power or consolidate power. It is also similarly used by oppressed people to overthrow their rulers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30796", "title": "Tyre, Lebanon", "text": "Tyre, Lebanon\n\nTyre ( \"Ṣūr\"; Phoenician: \"Ṣūr\"; Syriac-Aramaic: ܣܘܪ, \"Tzór\"; Greek: Τύρος \"Týros\"; ; \"Tir\"; ), sometimes romanized as Sour, is a district capital in the South Governorate of Lebanon. There were approximately 117,000 inhabitants in 2003. However, the government of Lebanon has released only rough estimates of population numbers since 1932, so an accurate statistical accounting is not possible. Tyre juts out from the coast of the Mediterranean and is located about south of Beirut. The name of the city means \"rock\" after the rocky formation on which the town was originally built. The adjective for Tyre is \"Tyrian\", and the inhabitants are \"Tyrians\".\n\nTyre is an ancient Phoenician city and the legendary birthplace of Europa and Dido (Elissa). Today it is the fourth largest city in Lebanon after Beirut, Tripoli and Sidon. and houses one of the nation's major ports. Tourism is a major industry. The city has a number of ancient sites, including its Roman Hippodrome, which was added to UNESCO's list of World Heritage Sites in 1979. \n\nTyre originally consisted of two distinct urban centres: Tyre itself, which was on an island just off shore, and the associated settlement of Ushu on the adjacent mainland. Alexander the Great connected the island to the mainland by constructing a causeway during his siege of the city, demolishing the old city to reuse its cut stone.\n\nThe original island city had two harbours, one on the south side and the other on the north side of the island. It was the two harbours that enabled Tyre to gain the maritime prominence that it did; the harbour on the north side of the island was, in fact, one of the best harbours on the eastern end of the Mediterranean. The harbour on the south side has silted over, but the harbour on the north side (see Tyre harbor photo at top of page right) is still in use.\n\nIn ancient times, the island-city of Tyre was heavily fortified and the mainland settlement, originally called Ushu (later called Palaetyrus, meaning \"Old Tyre,\" by the ancient Greeks) was actually more like a line of suburbs than any one city and was used primarily as a source of water and timber for the main island city. Josephus records that the two fought against each other on occasion, but most of the time, they supported one another because they both benefited from the island city's wealth from maritime trade and the mainland area's source of timber, water and burial grounds. \n\nTyre was founded around 2750 BC according to Herodotus and was originally built as a walled city upon the mainland. Tyre's name appears on monuments as early as 1300 BC. Philo of Byblos (in Eusebius) quotes the antiquarian authority Sanchuniathon as stating that it was first occupied by Hypsuranius. Sanchuniathon's work is said to be dedicated to \"Abibalus king of Berytus\"—possibly the Abibaal who was king of Tyre.\n\nThere are ten Amarna letters dated 1350 BC from the mayor, Abimilku, written to Akenaten. The subject is often water, wood and the Habiru overtaking the countryside of the mainland and how that affected the island-city. \n\nThe commerce of the ancient world was gathered into the warehouses of Tyre.\nTyre became one of the more powerful cities in Phoenicia. One of its kings, the priest Ithobaal (887–856 BC), ruled Phoenicia as far north as Beirut, and part of Cyprus. Carthage was founded in 814 BC under Pygmalion of Tyre (820–774 BC). The collection of city-states constituting Phoenicia came to be characterized by outsiders and the Phoenicians as \"Sidonia\" or \"Tyria\". Phoenicians and Canaanites alike were called \"Sidonians\" or \"Tyrians\", as one Phoenician city came to prominence after another.\n\nThe city of Tyre was particularly known for the production of a rare and extraordinarily expensive sort of purple dye, produced from the murex shellfish, known as Tyrian purple. The colour was, in ancient cultures, reserved for the use of royalty or at least the nobility.\n\nPhoenicians from Tyre settled in houses around Memphis in Egypt, south of the temple of Hephaestus in a district called the Tyrian Camp.\n\nTyre was often attacked by Egypt and was besieged by Assyrian king Shalmaneser V, who was assisted by the Phoenicians of the mainland, for five years. From 586 until 573 BC, the city was besieged by Nebuchadnezzar II of Babylon until it agreed to pay a tribute.\n\nThe Achaemenid Empire of King Cyrus the Great conquered the city in 539 BC and kept it under its rule until 332 BC.\n\nThe Persians then divided Phoenicia into four vassal kingdoms: Sidon, Tyre, Arwad, and Byblos. They prospered, furnishing fleets for Persian kings. Phoenician influence declined after this.\n\nAlexander the Great laid siege to the city, conquered and razed it in 332 BC. In 315 BC, Alexander's former general Antigonus began his own siege of Tyre, taking the city a year later.\n\nIn 126 BC, Tyre regained its independence from the Seleucid Empire.\n\nTyre was allowed to keep much of its independence, as a \"civitas foederata\", when the area became a Roman province in 64 BC. Tyre continued to maintain much of its commercial importance until the Common Era. The Tyrians, or \"people of Tyre\" during the Roman period, extended their areas of hegemony over the adjoining regions, such as in northern Palestine, settling in cities such as Kedesh, Mount Carmel and north of Baca. \n\nIt is stated in the New Testament that Jesus visited the region of Tyre and Sidon and healed a Gentile (; ) and from this region many came forth to hear him preaching (Mark 3:8; Gospel of Luke 6:17, Matthew 11:21–23). A congregation was founded here soon after the death of St. Stephen. Paul the Apostle, on his return from his third missionary journey, spent a week in conversation with the disciples there. According to Irenaeus of Lyon in \"On the Detection and Overthrow of the So-Called Gnosis\", the female companion of Simon Magus came from here.\n\nThe famous \"Arch of Hadrian\" and one of the best hippodromes in the region were constructed during the Roman empire.\n\nIn 395 Tyre became part of the Byzantine Empire. The city remained under Byzantine control until 638, when it was occupied by the Arabs.\n\nIn the Revolt of Tyre (996–998), the populace of the city rose against Fatimid rule, led by an ordinary sailor named 'Allaqa - but were brutally suppressed in May 998. In 1086 it fell into the hands of the Seljuks who lost it in 1089 to the Fatimids.\n\nAfter the first failed siege in 1111, Tyre was captured during the aftermath of the First Crusade on July 7, 1124 and became one of the most important cities of the Kingdom of Jerusalem. It was part of the royal domain, but there were also autonomous trading colonies there for the Italian merchant cities. The city was the see of a Roman Catholic archbishopric, whose archbishop was a suffragan of the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem; its archbishops often acceded to the Patriarchate. The most notable of the Latin archbishops was the historian William of Tyre.\n\nAfter the loss of the First Crusader Kingdom in the wake of the 1187 Battle of Hattin and the reconquest of Acre by Richard I of England on July 12, 1191, the seat of the kingdom moved there, but coronations were held in Tyre. In the 13th century, Tyre was separated from the royal domain as the Lordship of Tyre.\n\nIn 1291, Tyre was retaken by the Mamluk Sultanate.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire conquered the region in 1516-17 and held it until World War I.\n\nThe modern state of Lebanon was declared in 1920.\n\nThe present city of Tyre covers a large part of the original island and has expanded onto and covers most of the causeway, which had increased greatly in width over the centuries because of extensive silt depositions on either side. The part of the original island not covered by the modern city of Tyre is mostly of an archaeological site showcasing remains of the city from ancient times.\n\nAfter numerous attacks and reprisals involving the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), including an assassination attempt on Israeli ambassador Argov, Israel invaded, as part of the so-called 1978 South Lebanon conflict, and Tyre was badly damaged. It was damaged again in the 1982 Lebanon War between Israel and the PLO. The city was used as a base by the PLO and was nearly destroyed by Israeli artillery. After the 1982 war, the city was the site of an Israeli military post. In late 1982, and again in November 1983, buildings housing Israeli headquarters were destroyed by bombs, causing dozens of deaths in both cases and known in Israel as the First and Second Tyre Catastrophes. The 1983 explosion by a suicide truck happened only 10 days after similar attacks, the 1983 Beirut barracks bombings of US Marines and French paratroop barracks. Israel and the US blame Iran and Hezbollah for all explosions, but they have denied any involvement.\n\nDuring Israel's invasion in the 2006 Lebanon War, several rocket-launching sites used by Hezbollah to attack Israel were located in rural areas around the city. At least one village near the city was bombed by Israel as well as several sites within the city, causing civilian deaths and adding to the food shortage problem inside Tyre. Shayetet 13 (Israeli naval commandos) also raided Hezbollah targets within the city.\n\nThe Tyre Coast Nature Reserve covers over and divided into three zones: the Tourism zone (public beaches, the old city and Souks, the ancient port), the Agricultural and Archaeological zone, and the Conservation zone that includes the Phoenician springs of Ras El Ain. Due to its diverse flora and fauna, the reserve is a designated Ramsar Site. It is an important nesting site for migratory birds and the endangered Loggerhead and green sea turtle and the shelter of the Arabian spiny mouse and many other important creatures (including wall lizards, common pipistrelle, and european badger).\n\nThreats to Tyre's ancient cultural heritage include development pressures and the illegal antiquities trade. A highway, planned for 2011, is expected to be built in areas that are deemed archaeologically sensitive. A small-scale geophysical survey indicated the presence of archaeological remains at proposed construction sites. The sites have not been investigated. Despite the relocation of a proposed traffic interchange, the lack of precise site boundaries confuses the issue of site preservation.\nThe hostilities of the 2006 Lebanon War put the ancient structures of Tyre at risk. This prompted UNESCO's Director-General to launch a \"Heritage Alert\" for the site. Following the cessation of hostilities in September 2006, a visit by conservation experts to Lebanon observed no direct damage to the ancient city of Tyre. However, bombardment had damaged frescoes in a Roman funerary cave at the Tyre Necropolis. Additional site degradation was also noted, including \"the lack of maintenance, the decay of exposed structures due to lack of rainwater regulation and the decay of porous and soft stones\". Like many of the cities in the Levant and in Lebanon, the architecture since the Lebanese Civil War in the 1970s has been of poor quality, which tend to threaten the cultural heritage in the built environment before the war.\n\nThe Bible makes several references to Tyre:\n\n\nCollège Élite, a French international school, is in Tyre.\n\nJaafareya High School was the first intermediate and secondary school in south of Lebanon.\n\nThe population of Tyre is a predominantly Shia Muslim with a small but noticeable Christian community. However, the city of Tyre is home for more than 60,000 Palestinian refugees who are mainly Sunni Muslim. The Amal Movement and Hezbollah are the most popular parties, representing all of the Shi'a seats in the city as of the 2009 elections. In 2010, it was estimated Christians accounted 10% of Tyre's population.\n\nTyre is twinned with:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15132266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15132266", "title": "White Stains", "text": "White Stains\n\nWhite Stains is a poetic work, its title based on onanism, written by English author and occultist Aleister Crowley under the pseudonym \"George Archibald Bishop\". It was published in 1898 in Amsterdam, Netherlands.\n\n\"White Stains\" contains various poems in both English and French which can also be regarded as individual works. The majority of these poems are overtly sexual in content. Crowley claimed that he had written \"White Stains\" for the purpose of rewriting Richard von Krafft-Ebing's \"Psychopathia Sexualis\" in a lyrical form. As with other works of Crowley, obscenity is celebrated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42540575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42540575", "title": "Włocławker Sztyme", "text": "Włocławker Sztyme\n\nWłocławker Sztyme (, 'Voice of Włocławek') was a Yiddish language weekly newspaper published from the Polish of Włocławek 1930-1939. It was one of the longest-running Yiddish newspapers in the city. Zyskind Izbicki, A. Lichtensztajn and Israel Mordechai Biderman were editors of the newspaper. The newspaper carried the by-line 'Weekly Paper for Włocławek and surroundings'.\n"}
{"id": "49823922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49823922", "title": "Yuanying", "text": "Yuanying\n\nYuanying (; 1878 - 12 September 1953) was a Chinese Chan Buddhist master and the first Venerable Master of the Buddhist Association of China.\n\nYuanying was born Wu Changfa () and Wu Hengchun () into a family of farming background in Pinghu Township of Gutian County, in Fujian province, in 1878. His parents died when he was six and then he lived with his uncle. At the age of 10, he aspired to become a Buddhist monk, but his uncle did not approve. By age 18, he attended the Imperial examination and became a xiucai. One year later, he received ordination as a monk at Meifeng Temple in Fuzhou under master Zeng Xi () and then received prātimokṣa under master Miao Lian () at Yongquan Temple. When he was 21, he began to learn Chan Buddhism under master Ye Kai (), he stayed with his teacher for four years. At the age of 25, he resided in Tiantong Temple with his teacher Bazhi Toutuo ().\n\nIn 1908, he settled at Yongquan Temple, in Quanzhou, where he taught Chan Buddhism, and attracted large numbers of practitioners. In 1909, he became the abbot of Jiedai Temple. In 1912, the Chinese Buddhist Association was founded and he was elected a councilor. In 1917, Yuanying was elected Venerable Master of the Buddhist Association of Ningbo, he establish two schools to promote the development of local education project. He spread Chan Buddhism in Beijing in 1920 and then in Singapore and Penang Island in 1922. In 1923, Yuanying returned to Quanzhou, he rebuilt the Kaiyuan Temple and founded kindergarten in the temple, which adopted more than 200 orphans. In 1926, Yuanying went to Southeast Asia again to collect donations. In 1928, the Nationalist government issued the \"Administrative Regulations of Religious Temples\", an Anti - Buddhism Movement swept over the country. In 1929, along with Taixu and others, Yuanying formed the China Buddhist Association in Shanghai where he was President. They signed a large petition calling for stopping the destruction of Buddhism. In 1930, Yuanying became the abbot of Tiantong Temple, where he taught Chan Buddhism for six years. In 1937, he was the abbot of Yongquan Temple, at the age of 60. On July 7, the Marco Polo Bridge Incident broke out, Yuanying organized an ambulance corps for to serve the Nationalists. In October, he went to Singapore to collect money for the military expenditures. In the autumn of 1939, Yuanying returned to Shanghai and settled at Yuanming Lecture Room (), he was soon arrested by the Japanese military police corps, he was mistreated and tortured. Shanghai people from all walks of life to rescue him, under pressure, the Japanese had to release him. In 1943 former Beiyang government prime minister Jin Yunpeng invited him to Tianjin to preach. In 1945, he founded the Yuanming Lengyan School (), where he served as president and expound the texts of \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\".\n\nAfter the establishment of the Communist State in 1951, Yuanying attended the Asia and Pacific Regional Peace Conference in Beijing. In 1953, Hsu Yun formed the Buddhist Association of China at Kuang Chi (Extensive Aid) Monastery, Yuanying was elected its first Venerable Master. On September 12, he died of esophagus cancer at Tiantong Temple, in Ningbo, Zhejiang province, aged 76.\n\nIn 2014, a historical drama film based on the early boyhood of Yuanying was shot in his hometown.\n"}
{"id": "5242486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5242486", "title": "Zunnar", "text": "Zunnar\n\nZunnar (also spelled \"zunar\" or \"zonar\"; \"\") was a distinctive belt or girdle, part of the clothing that non-muslims were required to wear by Muslims to show they were not Muslims but \"dhimmi\". The requirement to wear the zunnar was noted in the Pact of Umar.\n\n"}
