{"id": "12871398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12871398", "title": "800-pound gorilla", "text": "800-pound gorilla\n\n\"800-pound gorilla\" is an American English expression for a person or organization so powerful that it can act without regard to the rights of others or the law. \n\nThe phrase is rooted in a joke riddle:\n\nThis highlights the disparity of power between the 800-pound gorilla and everything else. (Gorillas in the wild never reach even as much as 600 pounds.)\n\nThe term can describe a powerful geopolitical and military force, or, in business, a powerful corporate entity that has such a large majority percentage of whatever market they compete within that they can use that strength to crush would-be competitors.\n\nIn law, the phrase occurs semi-(in)formally as a characterization of judges vs. courts; as in: \"Standard/Court Rule\" vs \"Gorilla/Judge Rule\".\n\nThe metaphor has been mixed, on occasion, with the metaphor of the elephant in the room.\n\n"}
{"id": "5363177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5363177", "title": "A. N. Murthy Rao", "text": "A. N. Murthy Rao\n\nAkkihebbalu Narasimha Murthy Rao (16 June 1900—23 August 2003) was a Kannada author.\n\nBorn at Akkihebbalu in (Mandya District), he studied in Mysore and later taught English at Mysore University. He was the first Director of Kannada and Culture Department of the Karnataka Government and also presided over the 56th All India Kannada Sahitya Sammelana held in 1984.\n\nThough popular for his atheistic thoughts and writings, he has also written dramas, short stories and in addition headed a couple of government assignments. He was the first director of the Kannada & Sanskriti Department, spearheaded by Kengal Hanumanthaiah.\n\n"}
{"id": "29672189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29672189", "title": "Ashi (title)", "text": "Ashi (title)\n\nAshi (Dzongkha: ཨ་ཞེ་; Wylie: \"A-zhe\") also spelled Ashe or Azhi, is a Bhutanese title of respect literally meaning \"Lady\". The title is prefixed to the given name, and is borne by female Bhutanese nobility and by female members of the Bhutanese royal family. The masculine form is Dasho (Dzongkha: དྲག་ཤོས་; Wylie: \"drag-shos\"; \"superior, best\"), meaning \"Lord\", which is held by all Members of Parliament; a number of senior officials, including deputy ministers and district magistrates; senior civil servants and others as a form of Royal award (very much like a British Baronetcy), and by courtesy prominent landowners. Ashi can also mean \"Miss\" although that is not the intended use of the term. It is similar to the Arabic title Lalla also meaning lady held by noblewomen (Moulay for noblemen).\n\nWhen borne by daughters of the Bhutanese Sovereign, the title Ashi however has the connotation and status of \"Princess\" and is used in combination with the style Her Royal Highness. Bhutanese princesses do not have a separate title and the meaning of Ashi therefore depends on the context of usage. This creates sometimes confusion outside Bhutan; to avoid misunderstanding, Bhutanese English-language sources sometimes refer to daughters of the sovereign with the hybrid \"Princess Ashi\", and their male counterparts as \"Prince Dasho\".\n"}
{"id": "6277511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6277511", "title": "Baby Halder", "text": "Baby Halder\n\nBaby Halder (or Haldar) (born 1973) is an Indian domestic worker and author, whose acclaimed autobiography \"Aalo Aandhari (A Life Less Ordinary)\" (2006) describes her harsh life growing up and as a domestic worker, later translated into 21 languages, including 13 foreign languages.\n\nBorn in Kashmir, she was abandoned by her birth mother at age 4 in Murshidabad, when her father's habitual drinking forced her mother to leave him. Subsequently, she was raised by an abusive father, an ex-serviceman and driver and her step-mother, with whom she travelled from Kashmir to Murshidabad and finally to Durgapur, West Bengal, where she grew up. She went to school intermittently, and dropped off after sixth standard, when at the age of 12, her father married her off to a man 14 years her senior, and a small-time decorator. She had her first child at the age of 13, and two more in a quick succession. Meanwhile, after her sister was strangled to death by her husband, she started working as domestic servant in the neighbourhood. Finally in 1999, at the age of 25, after years of domestic violence, she left her husband, escaping to Delhi on a train, with her three children on board. Now as a single parent, she started working as a housemaid in New Delhi homes, to support and educate her children, sons Subodh and Tapas and daughter, Piya; and then encountered several exploitative employers.\n\nHer last employer, writer and retired anthropology professor Prabodh Kumar and a grandson of noted Hindi literary giant Munshi Premchand, living in Gurgaon, a suburb of capital New Delhi, seeing her interest in books while dusting his book shelves, encouraged her to first read leading authors, starting with Taslima Nasreen's autobiographical \"Amar Meyebela\" (My Girlhood) about a tumultuous youth and deep anger on being born a woman in a poor society. This deeply moved Halder and turned out be a turning point, as it was to inspire her own memories, later on. She soon zealously began reading other authors. Subsequently, before going on a trip to South India, he bought her a notebook and pen and encouraged her to write her life story, which she did late at night after work and sometimes in between chores, using plain matter-of-fact language and writing in native Bengali. When Kumar was back after a month, she had already written 100 pages.\n\nAfter several months, when her memoirs was completed, Kumar also aided in editing the manuscript, shared it with local literary circle and translated it into Hindi. This version was published in 2002 by a small Kolkata-based publishing house, Roshani Publishers. Much to their surprise, the book turned out to be a best-seller from the start. It immediately got extensive media attention as it threw light on the hard lives led by domestic servants in Asia, and within two-year it had published two more editions. The Bengali original, \"Aalo Aandhari\" (Light and Darkness) was also published in 2004. A Malayalam version appeared in 2005 and the English translation was published in 2006, which became a best-seller in India, while \"The New York Times\" called it India's \"Angela's Ashes\". Soon it was translated into 21 languages, including 13 foreign languages, including French, Japanese and Korean.\n\nThe book has been translated into German in 2008. It is expected that the author herself will be visiting Germany in the company of her publisher, Preeti Gill of New Delhi, India to present the book to audiences there and explain to them the present situation of women in India. The prestigious Georg-August University in Goettingen, Germany has arranged for a seminar to be held with the author and her publisher on 23 October 2008. Further seminars are being arranged in Frankfurt, Düsseldorf, Krefeld, Halle, Kiel, Berlin and Heidelberg. Her second book \"Eshat Roopantar\" in Bengali was also well received.\n\nShe lives in Gurgaon, with her son, Subodh and daughter, Piya. Her eldest Subodh now in his 20s has started working and lives separately. As of 2012, Halder continues to work for Prabodh Kumar in DLF City, Gurgaon, while working on her third book. Though, she is building a house in Kolkata, with earning from her books, she plans to stay on in the city\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6235977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6235977", "title": "Beriah Gwynfe Evans", "text": "Beriah Gwynfe Evans\n\nBeriah Gwynfe Evans (12 February 1848 – 4 November 1927), was a journalist, Congregationalist, dramatist, Liberal politician and Welsh Nationalist. \n\nBorn at Nant-y-glo, near Ebbw Vale in Monmouthshire, Evans was educated at the Beaufort British School and became a teacher at Gwynfe and Llangadog, Carmarthenshire. However, his ambition was to become a journalist.\n\nAs a playwright, Evans helped introduce a sceptical Nonconformity to contemporary drama with his patriotic play \"Owain Glyndŵr\", performed at the Llanberis Eisteddfod of 1879. A member of the Gorsedd, he was heavily involved in Welsh language literature and publishing.\n\nIn 1880, Evans established the monthly magazine \"Cyfail yr Aelwyd\", and in 1887, he gave up teaching altogether for a career in journalism, joining the staff of the \"South Wales Daily News\" in Cardiff. At the same time, he edited the Welsh section of the \"Cardiff Times and South Wales Weekly News\". In 1892, he moved to Caernarfon to take up the post of managing editor of the Welsh National Press Co., publishers of \"Y Genedl Gymreig\", \"The North Wales Observer\" and other papers. In 1917 he became editor of the Congregationalist weekly \"Y Tyst\".\n\nBeriah Evans was an ally of David Lloyd George and the other North Walian present at the Newport meeting of 16 January 1896. As secretary of Cymru Fydd from 1895, Evans was in the vanguard of Cymru Fydd’s offensive across Wales. Lloyd George spoke against a motion to make Evans’ post merely an unpaid, honorary post at Newport \"…and curiously enough we carried that.\" Once Lloyd George had swung the meeting against this resolution, the decision was made to exclude him from any discussion on the second motion, that of the four sub-federations. The Cardiff Cymru Fydd society was known as \"Beriah’s baumkin\". Beriah Evans would turn his hand to writing novels, and also produced a fine biography of Lloyd George. In his final years, Evans would join the infant Plaid Cymru. Evans broke with Lloyd George on the subject of the Boer War, being a Liberal Imperialist in his sympathies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4126984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4126984", "title": "Business activity statement", "text": "Business activity statement\n\nThe business activity statement (BAS) is a form submitted to the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) by registered business entities to report their tax obligations, including GST, pay as you go withholding (PAYGW), pay as you go instalments (PAYGI), fringe benefits tax (FBT), wine equalisation tax (WET) and luxury car tax (LCT). PAYGW is sometimes known as \"Income Tax Withholding (ITW),\" PAYGI is sometimes known as \"Income Tax Instalments (ITI)\".\n\nThe ATO forwards to each registered business before the end of each reporting period a BAS tailor-made for the business entity. The BAS may be delivered to the business as a paper form, electronically or via the business’s registered tax agent. Parts of the BAS may be pre-filled.\n\nRelated to the BAS is the Instalment Activity Statement (IAS), which is used by taxpayers who are not registered for the GST, but have other tax obligations. An IAS is also used by entities that prepare a quarterly BAS but are required to remit their PAYG withholding tax on a monthly basis.\n\nThe business activity statement reporting system was introduced in 2000 as a part of a major tax reform, which also included the introduction of the goods and services tax (GST). The various forms and reporting methods have changed considerably since the initial introduction of the BAS.\n\nThere are a number of different BAS forms which an organisation can complete. The form which a business receives depends on what tax liabilities it has, referred to as \"roles\". BASs are usually issued quarterly, some roles can be reported at different frequencies depending on the business structure and income. Some roles such as GST can be reported annually, subject to eligibility criteria being met.\n\nActivity statements are usually required to be submitted quarterly, but some entities may be required to report obligations on a more frequent basis. \n\nSome entities may be required to report PAYG Withholding liabilities or GST on a monthly basis.\n\nEvery activity statement carries a unique document identification number (DIN). Activity statements can be submitted to the ATO on paper (mail), by phone, electronically (via a Tax Agent's electronic lodgment system or \"ELS\"), or through the ATO business portal.\n\nActivity statements are processed by the Australian Taxation Office through its operations sub-plan. Any errors which occur with activity statements are usually handled by a department known as activity statement product (exceptions {ASP(E)}). ASP(E) operates under the operations sub-plan, client account services (CAS) business service line (BSL). Errors may occur when a business client reports figures incorrectly, where a client includes cent figures (only dollar figures are allowable), where an arithmetic error occurs, when a statement is submitted when no roles are active for the client, or when the handwriting on a paper statement is illegible.\n\nThe primary methods that businesses use to prepare and submit their business activity statement include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1804305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1804305", "title": "Cognitive semantics", "text": "Cognitive semantics\n\nCognitive semantics is part of the cognitive linguistics movement. Semantics is the study of linguistic meaning. Cognitive semantics holds that language is part of a more general human cognitive ability, and can therefore only describe the world as people conceive of it. It is implicit that different linguistic communities conceive of simple things and processes in the world differently (different cultures), not necessarily some difference between a person's conceptual world and the real world (wrong beliefs).\n\nThe main tenets of cognitive semantics are:\n\nAs part of the field of cognitive linguistics, the cognitive semantics approach rejects the traditional separation of linguistics into phonology, morphology, syntax, pragmatics, etc. Instead, it divides semantics into \"meaning-construction\" and \"knowledge representation\". Therefore, cognitive semantics studies much of the area traditionally devoted to pragmatics as well as semantics. \n\nThe techniques native to cognitive semantics are typically used in lexical studies such as those put forth by Leonard Talmy, George Lakoff, Dirk Geeraerts, and Bruce Wayne Hawkins. Some cognitive semantic frameworks, such as that developed by Talmy, take into account syntactic structures as well.\n\nAs a field, semantics is interested in three big questions: what does it mean for units of language, called lexemes, to have \"meaning\"? What does it mean for sentences to have meaning? Finally, how is it that meaningful units fit together to compose complete sentences? These are the main points of inquiry behind studies into lexical semantics, structural semantics, and theories of compositionality (respectively). In each category, traditional theories seem to be at odds with those accounts provided by cognitive semanticists.\n\nClassic theories in semantics (in the tradition of Alfred Tarski and Donald Davidson) have tended to explain the meaning of parts in terms of \"necessary and sufficient conditions\", sentences in terms of \"truth-conditions\", and composition in terms of \"propositional functions\". Each of these positions is tightly related to the others. According to these traditional theories, the meaning of a particular sentence may be understood as the conditions under which the proposition conveyed by the sentence hold true. For instance, the expression \"snow is white\" is true if and only if snow is, in fact, white. Lexical units can be understood as holding meaning either by virtue of set of things they may apply to (called the \"extension\" of the word), or in terms of the common properties that hold between these things (called its \"intension\"). The intension provides an interlocutor with the necessary and sufficient conditions that let a thing qualify as a member of some lexical unit's extension. Roughly, propositional functions are those abstract instructions that guide the interpreter in taking the free variables in an open sentence and filling them in, resulting in a correct understanding of the sentence as a whole.\n\nMeanwhile, cognitive semantic theories are typically built on the argument that lexical meaning is conceptual. That is, meaning is not necessarily reference to the entity or relation in some real or possible world. Instead, meaning corresponds with a concept held in the mind based on personal understanding. As a result, semantic facts like \"All bachelors are unmarried males\" are not treated as special facts about our language practices; rather, these facts are not distinct from encyclopaedic knowledge. In treating linguistic knowledge as being a piece with everyday knowledge, the question is raised: how can cognitive semantics explain paradigmatically semantic phenomena, like category structure? Set to the challenge, researchers have drawn upon theories from related fields, like cognitive psychology and cognitive anthropology. One proposal is to treat in order to explain category structure in terms of \"nodes\" in a \"knowledge network\". One example of a theory from cognitive science that has made its way into the cognitive semantic mainstream is the theory of prototypes, which cognitive semanticists generally argue is the cause of polysemy. \n\nCognitive semanticists argue that truth-conditional semantics is unduly limited in its account of full sentence meaning. While they are not on the whole hostile to truth-conditional semantics, they point out that it has limited explanatory power. That is to say, it is limited to indicative sentences, and does not seem to offer any straightforward or intuitive way of treating (say) commands or expressions. By contrast, cognitive semantics seeks to capture the full range of grammatical moods by also making use of the notions of framing and mental spaces.\n\nAnother trait of cognitive semantics is the recognition that meaning is not fixed but a matter of construal and conventionalization. The processes of linguistic construal, it is argued, are the same psychological processes involved in the processing of encyclopaedic knowledge and in perception. This view has implications for the problem of compositionality. An account in cognitive semantics called the dynamic construal theory makes the claim that words themselves are without meaning: they have, at best, \"default construals,\" which are really just ways of using words. Along these lines, cognitive semantics argues that compositionality can only be intelligible if pragmatic elements like context and intention are taken into consideration.\n\nCognitive semantics has sought to challenge traditional theories in two ways: first, by providing an account of the meaning of sentences by going beyond truth-conditional accounts; and second, by attempting to go beyond accounts of word meaning that appeal to necessary and sufficient conditions. It accomplishes both by examining the structure of concepts.\n\nFrame semantics, developed by Charles J. Fillmore, attempts to explain meaning in terms of their relation to general \"understanding\", not just in the terms laid out by truth-conditional semantics. Fillmore explains meaning in general (including the meaning of lexemes) in terms of \"frames\". By \"frame\" is meant any concept that can only be understood if a larger system of concepts is also understood.\n\nMany pieces of linguistic evidence motivate the frame-semantic project. First, it has been noted that word meaning is an extension of our bodily and cultural experiences. For example, the notion of \"restaurant\" is associated with a series of concepts, like \"food, service, waiters, tables, and eating\". These rich-but-contingent associations cannot be captured by an analysis in terms of necessary and sufficient conditions, yet they still seem to be intimately related to our understanding of \"restaurant\".\n\nSecond, and more seriously, these conditions are not enough to account for asymmetries in the ways that words are used. According to a semantic feature analysis, there is nothing more to the meanings of \"boy\" and \"girl\" than:\n\n\nAnd there is surely some truth to this proposal. Indeed, cognitive semanticists understand the instances of the concept held by a given certain word may be said to exist in a \"schematic relation\" with the concept itself. And this is regarded as a legitimate approach to semantic analysis, so far as it goes.\n\nHowever, linguists have found that language users regularly apply the terms \"boy\" and \"girl\" in ways that go beyond mere semantic features. That is, for instance, people tend to be more likely to consider a young female a \"girl\" (as opposed to \"woman\"), than they are to consider a borderline-young male a \"boy\" (as opposed to \"man\"). This fact suggests that there is a latent frame, made up of cultural attitudes, expectations, and background assumptions, which is part of word meaning. These background assumptions go up and beyond those necessary and sufficient conditions that correspond to a semantic feature account. Frame semantics, then, seeks to account for these puzzling features of lexical items in some systematic way.\n\nThird, cognitive semanticists argue that truth-conditional semantics is incapable of dealing adequately with some aspects of the meanings at the level of the sentence. Take the following:\n\n\nIn this case, the truth-conditions of the claim expressed by the antecedent in the sentence are not being denied by the proposition expressed after the clause. Instead, what is being denied is the way that the antecedent is framed.\n\nFinally, with the frame-semantic paradigm's analytical tools, the linguist is able to explain a wider range of semantic phenomena than they would be able to with only necessary and sufficient conditions. Some words have the same definitions or intensions, and the same extensions, but have subtly different domains. For example, the lexemes \"land\" and \"ground\" are synonyms, yet they naturally contrast with different things -- \"sea\" and \"air\", respectively. \n\nAs we have seen, the frame semantic account is by no means limited to the study of lexemes—with it, researchers may examine expressions at more complex levels, including the level of the sentence (or, more precisely, the utterance). The notion of framing is regarded as being of the same cast as the pragmatic notion of \"background assumptions\". Philosopher of language John Searle explains the latter by asking readers to consider sentences like \"The cat is on the mat\". For such a sentence to make any sense, the interpreter makes a series of assumptions: i.e., that there is gravity, the cat is parallel to the mat, and the two touch. For the sentence to be intelligible, the speaker supposes that the interpreter has an idealized or default frame in mind.\n\nAn alternate strain of Fillmore's analysis can be found in the work of Ronald Langacker, who makes a distinction between the notions of \"profile\" and \"base\". The profile is the concept symbolized by the word itself, while the base is the encyclopedic knowledge that the concept presupposes. For example, let the definition of \"radius\" be \"a line segment that joins the center of a circle with any point on its circumference\". If all we know of the concept \"radius\" is its profile, then we simply know that it is a line segment that is attached to something called the \"circumference\" in some greater whole called the \"circle\". That is to say, our understanding is fragmentary until the base concept of \"circle\" is firmly grasped.\n\nWhen a single base supports a number of different profiles, then it can be called a \"domain\". For instance, the concept profiles of \"arc, center, and circumference\" are all in the domain of \"circle\", because each uses the concept of \"circle\" as a base. We are then in a position to characterize the notion of a frame as being either the base of the concept profile, or (more generally) the domain that the profile is a part of.\n\nA major divide in the approaches to cognitive semantics lies in the puzzle surrounding the nature of category structure. As mentioned in the previous section, semantic feature analyses fall short of accounting for the frames that categories may have. An alternative proposal would have to go beyond the minimalistic models given by classical accounts, and explain the richness of detail in meaning that language speakers attribute to categories.\n\n\"Prototype theories\", investigated by Eleanor Rosch, have given some reason to suppose that many natural lexical category structures are graded, i.e., they have prototypical members that are considered to be \"better fit\" the category than other examples. For instance, robins are generally viewed as better examples of the category \"bird\" than, say, penguins. If this view of category structure is the case, then categories can be understood to have central and peripheral members, and not just be evaluated in terms of members and non-members.\n\nIn a related vein, George Lakoff, following the later Ludwig Wittgenstein, noted that some categories are only connected to one another by way of \"family resemblances\". While some classical categories may exist, i.e., which are structured by necessary and sufficient conditions, there are at least two other kinds: \"generative\" and \"radial\". \n\n\"Generative categories\" can be formed by taking central cases and applying certain principles to designate category membership. The principle of similarity is one example of a rule that might generate a broader category from given prototypes.\n\n\"Radial categories\" are categories motivated by conventions, but not predictable from rules. The concept of \"mother\", for example, may be explained in terms of a variety of conditions that may or may not be sufficient. Those conditions may include: being married, has always been female, gave birth to the child, supplied half the child's genes, is a caregiver, is married to the genetic father, is one generation older than the child, and is the legal guardian. Any one of the above conditions might not be met: for instance, a \"single mother\" does not need to be married, and a \"surrogate mother\" does not necessarily provide nurturance. When these aspects collectively cluster together, they form a prototypical case of what it means to be a mother, but nevertheless they fail to outline the category crisply. Variations upon the central meaning are established by convention by the community of language users.\n\nFor Lakoff, prototype effects can be explained in large part due to the effects of idealized cognitive models. That is, domains are organized with an ideal notion of the world that may or may not fit reality. For example, the word \"bachelor\" is commonly defined as \"unmarried adult male\". However, this concept has been created with a particular ideal of what a bachelor is like: an adult, uncelibate, independent, socialized, and promiscuous. Reality might either strain the expectations of the concept, or create false positives. That is, people typically want to widen the meaning of \"bachelor\" to include exceptions like \"a sexually active seventeen-year-old who lives alone and owns his own firm\" (not technically an adult but seemingly still a bachelor), and this can be considered a kind of straining of the definition. Moreover, speakers would tend to want to exclude from the concept of \"bachelor\" certain false positives, such as those adult unmarried males that don't bear much resemblance to the ideal: i.e., the Pope, or Tarzan. Prototype effects may also be explained as a function of either basic-level categorization and typicality, closeness to an ideal, or stereotyping.\n\nSo viewed, prototype theory seems to give an account of category structure. However, there are a number of criticisms of this interpretation of the data. Indeed, Rosch and Lakoff, themselves chief advocates of prototype theory, have emphasized in their later works that the findings of prototype theory do not necessarily tell us anything about category structure. Some theorists in the cognitive semantics tradition have challenged both classical and prototype accounts of category structure by proposing the dynamic construal account, where category structure is always created \"on-line\"—and so, that categories have no structure outside of the context of use.\n\nIn traditional semantics, the meaning of a sentence is the situation it represents, and the situation can be described in terms of the possible world that it would be true of. Moreover, sentence meanings may be dependent upon propositional attitudes: those features that are relative to someone's beliefs, desires, and mental states. The role of propositional attitudes in truth-conditional semantics is controversial. However, by at least one line of argument, truth-conditional semantics seems to be able to capture the meaning of belief-sentences like \"Frank believes that the Red Sox will win the next game\" by appealing to propositional attitudes. The meaning of the overall proposition is described as a set of abstract conditions, wherein Frank holds a certain propositional attitude, and the attitude is itself a relationship between Frank and a particular proposition; and this proposition is the possible world where the Red Sox win the next game.\n\nStill, many theorists have grown dissatisfied with the inelegance and dubious ontology behind possible-worlds semantics. An alternative can be found in the work of Gilles Fauconnier. For Fauconnier, the meaning of a sentence can be derived from \"mental spaces\". Mental spaces are cognitive structures entirely in the minds of interlocutors. In his account, there are two kinds of mental space. The \"base space\" is used to describe reality (as it is understood by both interlocutors). \"Space builders\" (or \"built space\") are those mental spaces that go beyond reality by addressing possible worlds, along with temporal expressions, fictional constructs, games, and so on. Additionally, Fauconnier semantics distinguishes between \"roles\" and \"values\". A semantic role is understood to be description of a category, while values are the instances that make up the category. (In this sense, the role-value distinction is a special case of the type-token distinction.) \n\nFauconnier argues that curious semantic constructions can be explained handily by the above apparatus. Take the following sentence:\n\n\nThe semanticist must construct an explanation for the obvious fact that the above sentence is not contradictory. Fauconnier constructs his analysis by observing that there are two mental spaces (the present-space and the 1929-space). His \"access principle\" supposes that \"a value in one space can be described by the role its counterpart in another space has, even if that role is invalid for the value in the first space\". So, to use the example above, the value in 1929-space is \"the blonde\", while she is being described with the role of \"the lady with white hair\" in present-day space.\n\nAs we have seen, cognitive semantics gives a treatment of issues in the construction of meaning both at the level of the sentence and the level of the lexeme in terms of the structure of concepts. However, it is not entirely clear what cognitive processes are at work in these accounts. Moreover, it is not clear how we might go about explaining the ways that concepts are actively employed in conversation. It appears to be the case that, if our project is to look at \"how\" linguistic strings convey different semantic content, we must first catalogue \"what\" cognitive processes are being used to do it. Researchers can satisfy both requirements by attending to the \"construal operations\" involved in language processing—that is to say, by investigating the ways that people \"structure their experiences\" through language.\n\nLanguage is full of conventions that allow for subtle and nuanced conveyances of experience. To use an example that is readily at hand, framing is all-pervasive, and it may extend across the full breadth of linguistic data, extending from the most complex utterances, to tone, to word choice, to expressions derived from the composition of morphemes. Another example is \"image-schemata\", which are ways that we structure and understand the elements of our experience driven by any given sense.\n\nAccording to linguists William Croft and D. Alan Cruse, there are four broad cognitive abilities that play an active part in the construction of construals. They are: attention/salience, judgment/comparison, situatedness, and constitution/gestalt. Each general category contains a number of subprocesses, each of which helps to explain the ways we encode experience into language in some unique way.\n\n"}
{"id": "5191150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5191150", "title": "Computer to film", "text": "Computer to film\n\nComputer to film (CTF) is a print workflow involving printing from a computer straight to film through an imagesetter. Designs are typically created in Adobe Illustrator, CorelDRAW, however they can be produced AutoCAD, Inkscape and many other vector based CAD, design and desktop publishing software packages.\n\nFor multi-coloured printing, the image is broken up into multiple layers representing each of the spot colors or the CMYK process colors, this may be split manually by the designer or separated by software in the imagesetter itself. Each color is made into its own piece of film and plate, there can be 12 or more colors used in a single production run, however 1-6 colors are typical.\n\nFrom the imagesetter, the film is taken to the plate maker, where the film is laid on top of photopolymer plate material. A vacuum is then drawn to ensure tight contact between the plate and film and the plate exposed with UV Light. The plate is then washed in a solvent solution, typically water, where the unexposed areas wash away leaving a relief. It's then dried and given a second and final exposure without the film for durability. The plate can then be fitted onto an offset, rotary or flexographic printing press ready to print the product. A printing plate can produce 100,000 impressions or more before showing signs of wear, after which a new plate can be made from the original film. \n\nWith advances in the technology of heat stabilization of polyester film, new-generation laser printer films provide excellent image registration and sharpness for multi-colour jobs. \n\nComputer to film is being replaced by the more advanced computer to plate (CTP) technology. Compared to CTP, the cost of maintaining and running a CTF system is much cheaper, even though it requires an additional step in the plate-making process. \n"}
{"id": "18118183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18118183", "title": "Croisilles languages", "text": "Croisilles languages\n\nThe Croisilles languages are a family of languages in the Madang stock of New Guinea. The occupy the northern Abelbert Range, vs. the Southern Adelbert languages, another branch of Madang.\n\nThe languages are:\n\n"}
{"id": "7356538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7356538", "title": "Dysprosody", "text": "Dysprosody\n\nDysprosody, which may manifest as pseudo-foreign accent syndrome, refers to a disorder in which one or more of the prosodic functions are either compromised or eliminated completely.\n\nProsody refers to the variations in melody, intonation, pauses, stresses, intensity, vocal quality, and accents of speech. As a result, prosody has a wide array of functions, including expression on linguistic, attitudinal, pragmatic, affective and personal levels of speech. People diagnosed with dysprosody most commonly experience difficulties in pitch or timing control. People diagnosed with the condition can comprehend language and vocalize what they intend to say, however, they are not able to control the way in which the words come out of their mouths. Since dysprosody is the rarest neurological speech disorder discovered, not much is conclusively known or understood about the disorder. The most obvious expression of dysprosody is when a person starts speaking in an accent which is not their own. Speaking in a foreign accent is only one type of dysprosody, as the condition can also manifest itself in other ways, such as changes in pitch, volume, and rhythm of speech. It is still very unclear as to how damage to the brain causes the disruption of prosodic function. The only form of effective treatment developed for dysprosody is speech therapy.\n\nDysprosody is usually attributed to neurological damage, such as brain tumors, brain trauma, brain vascular damage, stroke and severe head injury. To better understand the causes of the condition, 25 cases of dysprosody diagnosed between 1907-1978 were examined more closely. It was found that the majority developed dysprosody after a cerebrovascular accident, while another 6 cases developed after a head trauma. In that same study, 16 of the patients were female, while 9 were male. However, there has been no conclusive evidence that gender affects the onset of dysprosody. There has been no evidence that ethnicity, age, or genetics has any impact on the development of dysprosody.\n\nIn another reported case in 2004, a patient presented with dysprosody under interesting circumstances. The patient underwent surgery to correct a Reinke's edema, which originates in the vocal folds of the larynx. After the surgery, however, she began speaking in a foreign German accent. Neurological examinations were carried out on the patient through magnetic resonance imaging, but the results were completely normal. The only conclusion the doctors could make was that the surgery somehow changed the patient's vocal identification causing the new voice pattern. It was possible that the patient suffered a lack of oxygen to the brain during the surgery, which would have gone undetected by the resonance imaging, causing dysprosody. Although most causes of dysprosody are due to neurological damage, this case study shows that there can be other causes which are not necessarily neurologically based.\n\nDysprosody is \"characterized by alterations in intensity, in the timing of utterance segments, and in rhythm, cadency, and intonation of words.\" These differences cause a person to lose the characteristics of their particular individual speech. While the individual's personality, sensory comprehension, motor skills, and intelligence all remain intact, their grammar as well as vocal emotional capacity can be affected. Prosodic control is essential to speech delivery because it establishes vocal identity, since each individual’s voice has unique characteristics. There are two types of dysprosody, linguistic and emotional, that each present with slightly different symptoms. It is possible that one can present with both forms of dysprosody.\n\nDysprosody works on a linguistic level in that it specifies the intent of one’s speech. For example, prosody is responsible for verbal variations in interrogative versus declarative statements and serious versus sarcastic remarks. Linguistic dysprosody refers to the diminished ability to verbally convey aspects of sentence structure, such as placing stress on certain words for emphasis or using patterns of intonation to reveal the structure or intention of an utterance. For example, individuals with linguistic dysprosody may have difficulty distinguishing the production of interrogative and declarative sentences, switching or leaving out the expected rising and falling shift, respectively. Thus, linguistic dysprosody alters an individual’s vocal identity and impairs verbal communication.\n\nEmotional dysprosody deals with a person's ability to express emotions through their speech as well as their ability to understand emotion in someone else's speech. Whenever we speak, whether we realize it or not, there are nonverbal aspects of our speech that reveal information about our feelings and attitude. There has been strong evidence that dysprosody does affect the ability to express emotion, however the severity may vary depending on what part of the brain has been damaged. Studies have shown that the ability to express emotional information is dependent on motor, perceptual, and neurobehavioral functions all working together in a specific way. A person suffering from dysprosody would not be able to accurately convey emotion vocally, such as through pitch or melody, or make any conclusion about another person's feeling through his speech. Regardless of the inability to vocally express feeling through prosodic controls, emotions are still formed and felt by the individual. Since there are many different factors which contribute to emotional understanding of speech, it makes it much more complicated to understand.\n\nAfter experiencing brain injury, some people may begin speaking in an accent not native to their country of origin, as discussed in the preceding sections, but more common forms of dysprosody consist of alterations in vocal pitch, timing, rhythm, and control, not necessarily resulting in a foreign dialect. In addition, there have been some cases in which seizures began to develop in patients also suffering from dysprosody, but no decisive conclusions connecting dysprosody and seizure activity have been made.\nDysprosody can last for differing durations, from a few months to years, although the reason seems to be unclear.\n\nThere are several different types of dysprosody which have been classified. The most common types of dysprosody are associated with dysarthria and developmental coordination disorder, which affect motor processing in speech. Among the most studied types are:\n\nThere can also be some emotional and mental side effects to dysprosody. Each individual has a distinct voice characterized by all the prosodic elements. Once a person loses control of the timing, pitch, melody, etc. of his speech, he can also feel a sense of loss of personal identity, which can sometimes lead to depression.\n\nWhen studies of dysprosody first began, diagnosis involved an untrained ear determining impairments in the prosodic elements. However, over time and as dysprosody has been studied more closely, a more concrete method of diagnosis has been developed. One diagnosis technique is a rating scale, such as the Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination. The exam is a subjective rating system of volume (from loud to normal to soft), voice (from normal to whisper to hoarse), speech rate (from fast to normal to slow) and intonation which is rated on a scale from 1-7. One indicates no sentence intonation, four is given when sentence intonation is limited to abrupt pauses, and seven indicates normal intonation.\n\nThere are also more involved diagnostic evaluations for which contain both productive and comprehensive parts. In the productive part, the patient is asked to say sentences with certain instructions. In the comprehension section, the patient is asked to listen to sentences being said and then answer questions about how they were stated.\nIn order to determine linguistic dysprosody, a patient is asked to read sentences that can either be a statement or a question using both declarative and interrogative intonations. How the patient uses prosodic contours to distinguish between asking a question and saying a statement is recorded. During the comprehension section of the evaluation, a clinician reads simple sentences with either a declarative or interrogative intonation and the patient is asked to identify whether the sentence is a question or a statement. Evaluation of these two parts can determine if the patient has linguistic dysprosody.\nEmotional dysprosody can be diagnosed by having a patient state a neutral sentence with different emotions, such as happy, sad, and angry. Patients with dysprosody will not be able to convey the emotions very well or differentiate their speech between the different emotions significantly. During the comprehension part, a clinician will say a sentence with specific emotional intonations and the patient must indicate the correct emotion. These techniques ultimately allow for the diagnosis of dysprosody and the degree of its severity in the patient.\n\nSince the discovery of dysprosody, scientists have been attempting to declare a particular area of the brain responsible for prosodic control. It was long believed that the right hemisphere of the brain was responsible for prosodic organization, ultimately leading to a grossly oversimplified hemispheric model. This model argued that the organization of language, centered in the left hemisphere, parallels the organization of prosody in the right hemisphere. Since its release, however, very few studies have given the model any substantial support.\n\nScientists have attributed major control of the temporal aspects of prosody, including rhythm and timing, to the left hemisphere of the brain. On the other hand, pitch perception, such as singing and linguistics related to emotion, are believed to be organized in the right hemisphere. This belief led to the development of the “Functional Lateralization” hypothesis, stating that dysprosody can be caused by lesions in either the right or left hemispheres. It further states that the left is responsible for acoustic and temporal aspects of prosody, while the right is responsible for pitch and emotion. This hypothesis, however, has also been a cause for concern as studies have shown that people with left hemispheric damage exhibit prosodic deficiencies associated with the right hemisphere as defined by the functional lateralization hypothesis and vice versa. It has also been found that damage to the medulla, cerebellum, and basal ganglia may cause dysprosody. These conclusions have led scientists to believe that prosodic organization in the brain is extremely complex and cannot be attributed to hemispheric divisions alone. Although not well understood yet, studies to identify prosodic organization in the brain continue, primarily through the examination of damaged brain areas in patients suffering from dysprosody and their resulting vocal deficiencies. In addition, dysprosody has been associated with several other conditions, including Parkinson's condition, Huntington's condition, gelastic epilepsy (gelastic seizure), and behavioral disorders such as apathy, akinesia and aboulia. Understanding these disorders and the areas of the brain affected in each case is key in conducting further studies of dysprosody. Scientists are continuing to study these patients in the hope of creating more concrete connections between areas of brain damage and prosodic abnormalities, which will hopefully someday lead to a full understanding of prosodic organization in the brain.\n\nParkinson's disease is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder that involves the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the brain. While common symptoms of Parkinson's disease are tremors, rigidity, bradykinesia, and postural instability, dysprosody is also a common problem. A common characteristic feature of dysprosody in Parkinson's is monopitch, or an inability to vary pitch when speaking.\n\nSeveral studies have been performed investigating the link between Parkinson's and dysprosody. They have concluded that patients with Parkinson's disease tend to struggle with specific areas of prosody; they are less able to produce the loudness, pitch, and rhythm patterns required for expressing certain emotions, such as anger. In general, the voice modulations needed to express strong emotions are particularly difficult for patients with Parkinson's disease. Abnormal pauses in speech are also a characteristic of Parkinsonian dysprosody, including both pauses in general speech and intra-word pauses. A decrease in speech rate can also be observed in Parkinson's patients. \n\nStudies have also shown a progression of dysprosody over time in patients with Parkinson's disease. Abnormalities in speech rate, pauses, and variation range in speech become worse as the condition progresses. The degradation of prosody in Parkinson's disease over time is independent of motor control issues, and is thus separate from those aspects of the condition. Studies have shown that treatment for Parkinson's disease can help with the dysprosody symptoms, however there is usually an improvement in pitch control only and not in the volume and emotional aspects of the condition. These treatments include medications such as L-DOPA as well as electrophysiological treatments.\n\nSeveral psychiatric conditions, such as autism spectrum disorder, clinical depression, and schizophrenia are characterized by distinctive prosodic patterns. Several studies found an atypical neural processing of expressive dysprosody in individuals diagnosed with one of the autism spectrum disorders.\n\nThe most effective course of treatment for dysprosody has been speech therapy. The first step in therapy is practice drills which consist of repeating phrases using different prosodic contours, such as pitch, timing, and intonation. Typically a clinician will say either syllables, words, phrases, or nonsensical sentences with certain prosodic contours, and the patient repeats them with the same prosodic contours. Treatment following the lines of the principles of motor learning (PML) was found to improve the production of lexical stress contrasts. Once a patient is able to effectively complete this drill, they can start with more advanced forms of speech therapy. Upon completion of therapy, most people can identify prosodic cues in natural situations, such as normal conversation. Speech therapy has proven most effective for linguistic dysprosody because therapy for emotional dysprosody requires much more effort and is not always successful. One way that people learn to cope with emotional dysprosody is to explicitly state their emotions, rather than relying on prosodic cues.\n\nOver time, there have also been cases of people suffering from dysprosody gaining their native accent back with no course of treatment. Since the part of the brain responsible for dysprosody has not definitely been discovered, nor has the mechanism for the brain processes which cause dysprosody been found, there has not been much treatment for the condition by means of medication.\n\nIn the past decade research on dysprosody has begun to focus on its relationship to other, more common conditions such as Parkinson's condition. Scientists believe that studying the connections between dysprosody and these better understood conditions may help them pinpoint specific areas of the brain responsible for prosody. Recent research has looked into the development of Dysprosody in connection with Parkinson's condition, not only looking at voice and speech issues, but also the effects on cognitive-linguistic and prosody perception and production.\n\nDysprosody is an impairment in the prosodic elements such as rhythm, timing, melody, stress, pitch and intonation. It primarily results from neurological damage that can be caused by tumors, stroke, or severe head injury. There have been several hypotheses proposed discussing the area of the brain responsible for prosodic control, but since prosodic elements are so diverse, its organization in the brain is still unclear. There are different types of dysprosody, including linguistic and emotional, which present different symptoms. The only course of treatment proven to be effective is speech therapy, although normal speech may naturally resume. Currently, there has been more research regarding dysprosody's link to other conditions, in particular Parkinson's condition, but also Huntington's condition, and gelastic epilepsy to name a few.\n\nThe first documented occurrence of dysprosody was described by Pierre Marie, a French neurologist, in 1907. Marie described the case of a Frenchman who started speaking in an Alsatian accent after suffering from a cerebrovascular accident which caused right hemiplegia.\n\nThe next documented report of dysprosody occurred in 1919 by Arnold Pick, a German neurologist. He noticed a 29-year-old Czechoslovak had started speaking in a Polish accent following a stroke. Pick's patient also suffered from right hemiparesis, a lesser version of hemiplegia, and aphasia after the stroke. Pick noticed that not only was the accent altered, but the timing of the speech was slower, and the patient spoke with uncharacteristic grammatical mistakes. Pick later wanted to follow up on his research but was not able to, since the patient had died with no autopsy performed.\n\nThe most well documented account of dysprosody was in 1943 by G. H. Monrad-Krohn. A woman, Astrid L., in Norway was hit with a shell fragment during an air raid in 1941 through her left frontal bone, leaving her brain exposed. She was unconscious for four days and when she regained consciousness at the hospital, she was hemiplegic on her right side, was suffering from seizures, and was aphasic. Initially she could only speak in monosyllables, yes and no, but then started to form sentences. When first starting to speak again, she also spoke with uncharacteristic grammatical errors, but over time they became much less pronounced and eventually she gained back full fluency of speech. However, she sounded as though she was speaking her native Norwegian with a German accent. It was two years later that she was admitted to the Neurological University Clinic in Oslo, Norway and seen by Dr. Monrad-Krohn. Krohn examined the patient and noted that there was no noticeable difference in her fluency, motor functions, sensory functions, or coordination. Upon examination of her skull, he found a large scar on the left fronto-temporo-parietal region. This was not as helpful as Krohn would have liked. Since the scar was so extensive, it was impossible for Krohn to pinpoint the exact region of the brain which was causing this altered speech. Krohn then ran tests on Astrid to assess her language comprehension. He found that in addition to her altered speech patterns, she had trouble finding the Norwegian words for trivial objects, such as light switch and match box. She also had to repeat the examiner's questions aloud before answering, had to say words out loud to herself before writing them down, and had difficulty comprehending written instructions. Krohn could not understand how she had acquired a foreign accent; it could not be attributed to any known disorder or condition. For those who suffer from this type of dysprosody, sometimes the accents they speak are from countries to which the person has never been. This is very puzzling for neuroscientists, since dialects and accents are considered to be an acquired behavior of learning pitches, intonations and stress patterns.\n\nThere have been another 21 cases documented up until 1978. Thirteen of those cases were documented at the Mayo Clinic, while the others were documented at clinics and hospitals elsewhere.\n\nThere have been more recent occurrences of people who have developed accents after brain injuries, specifically strokes. In 1999, Judi Roberts suffered a stroke which paralyzed the right side of her body, leaving her unable to speak. Over time, her speech began to improve, eventually recovering full fluency, but she developed a British accent despite having lived in the US for her whole life. In 2006, another report was documented of Linda Walker, a native of England, who developed a foreign accent after suffering from a stroke.\n\n"}
{"id": "2621483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2621483", "title": "East Geelvink Bay languages", "text": "East Geelvink Bay languages\n\nThe East Geelvink Bay or East Cenderawasih languages are a language family of a dozen Papuan languages along the eastern coast of Geelvink Bay in Indonesian Papua, which is also known as Sarera Bay or Cenderawasih. \n\nThe East Geelvink Bay languages are:\nOf these, only Turunggare, Barapasi, and Bauzi are known well enough to demonstrate a relationship, though they are all lexically similar (> 60%). The unclassified Kehu language, spoken between Turunggare and Burate, may turn out to be East Geelvink Bay as well.\n\nA relationship between Yawa, spoken on Yapen Island, and the East Geelvink Bay languages was tentatively proposed by C. L. Voorhoeve in 1975 in a proposal he called Geelvink Bay. The hypothesis was taken up by Stephen Wurm, who developed it as part of an initial attempt to classify the Papuan languages; however, the relationship would be a distant one, and later linguists such as Mark Donohue considered Yawa to be a language isolate. \n\nClouse 1997 removed the Lakes Plain languages of the upper Mamberamo River in the interior of Papua from Trans–New Guinea, where Würm had placed them, and added them to the Geelvink Bay languages. However, in his 2005 classification based on comparative evidence from pronouns, Malcolm Ross treats all three groups as separate families, with Yawa tentatively placed in an extended West Papuan family.\n\nThe pronouns Ross reconstructs for proto–East Geelvink Bay are,\n\n"}
{"id": "1831309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1831309", "title": "Education in Switzerland", "text": "Education in Switzerland\n\nThe education system in Switzerland is very diverse, because the constitution of Switzerland delegates the authority for the school system mainly to the cantons. The Swiss constitution sets the foundations, namely that primary school is obligatory for every child and is free in public schools and that the confederation can run or support universities.\n\nThe minimum age for primary school is about six years in all cantons but Obwalden, where it is five years and three months. After primary schools, the pupils split up according to their abilities and intentions of career paths. Roughly 25% of all students attend lower and upper secondary schools leading, normally after 12 school years in total to the federal recognized matura or an academic Baccalaureate which grants access to all universities. The other students split in two or more school-types, depending on the canton, differing in the balance between theoretical and practical education. It is obligatory for all children to attend school for at least 9 years.\n\nThe first university in Switzerland was founded in 1460 in Basel, with a faculty of medicine. This place has a long tradition of chemical and medical research in Switzerland. In total, there are 12 Universities in Switzerland; ten of them are managed by the cantons, while two federal institutes of technology, ETHZ in Zurich and EPFL in Lausanne, are under the authority of the State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation. In addition, there are seven regional associations of Universities for Applied Sciences (\"Fachhochschulen\") which require vocational education and a special \"Berufsmatura\", or a \"Fachmatura\" (a graduation by a \"Fachmittelschule\") to study. Switzerland has a high rate of foreign students in tertiary education including one of the highest in the world of doctoral level students.\n\nMany Nobel prizes have been awarded to Swiss scientists. More recently Vladimir Prelog, Heinrich Rohrer, Richard Ernst, Edmond Fischer, Rolf Zinkernagel and Kurt Wüthrich have received nobel prizes in the sciences. In total, 113 Nobel Prize winners stand in relation to Switzerland and the Nobel Peace Prize has been awarded nine times to organizations residing in Switzerland. Geneva hosts the world's largest particle physics laboratory, the CERN. Other important research centers are the Empa and Paul Scherrer Institute which belong to the ETH domain.\n\nThe obligatory school system usually includes primary education (\"Primarschule\" in German, \"école primaire\" in French, \"scuola primaria / elementare\" in Italian and \"scola primara\" in Romansh) and secondary education I (\"Sekundarschule\" or \"Sekundarstufe I\" in German, \"secondaire I\" in French and \"scuola secondaria / media\" in Italian and \"scola secundar\" in Romansh). Before that, children generally go to \"Kindergarten\", with one or two years is required in most cantons. In the Canton of Ticino, an optional, third year is available for three year old children. In some German speaking cantons kindergarten and the first one or two years may be combined into a \"Grundstufe\" or \"Basisstufe\" where they are all taught together in a single class. In French speaking cantons kindergarten is combined into a four-year \"cycle primaire 1\" or \"cycle 1\" which is followed by a four-year \"cycle primaire 2\" or \"cycle 2\" which completes their primary school.\n\nThe minimum age for primary school is about six years in all cantons but Obwalden, where it is five years and three months. The cantons Thurgau and Nidwalden allow five-year-olds to start primary school in exceptional cases. Primary school continues until grade four, five or six, depending on the school/canton. Any child can take part in school if they choose to, but pupils are separated depending on whether they speak French, German or Italian.\n\nAt around age 11–12, depending on which canton in Switzerland the child goes to school in, there \"could\" be a screening exam to decide how to separate the students for secondary school. Some cantons have a system of examination in the second semester of the final year of primary school, some cantons have an exam in second semester and continuous evaluation in both first and second semesters. In some cases, parents or legal guardians of the child are also asked for their recommendations (see Indicator C below) along with a self-evaluation done by the child. Parents' recommendation in combination with child's self-evaluation is called the third indicator (Indicator C) for evaluating the student, the first being teacher's evaluation (Indicator A), the second the results of tests(Indicator B) held in first semester. The fourth criteria is the final exam that takes place in the middle of the second semester of the final year primary school (usually held before Easter Break).\n\nAt the end of primary school (or at the beginning of secondary school), pupils are separated (see Indicator C for Fribourg under Primary School) according to their capacities and career-intentions in several (often three) sections for a period of 2–3 years (Sekundarschule) in either Pre-higher secondary school section, General section or Basic section (Basic may be called Realschule in German or Classe d'exigence de base in French). Students who aspire for an academic career enter \"Mittelschule\" (also named \"Gymnasium\", or \"Kantonsschule\", a public school by the canton/state) to be prepared for further studies and the Matura (normally obtained after 12 or 13 years of school usually at the age of 18 or 19). Students intending to pursue a trade or vocation complete three to four additional years before entering Vocational Educations which are regulated by federal law and are based on a cooperation of private business offering educational job-positions and public schools offering obligatory school-lessons complementary to the on-the-job education. This so-called \"dual system\" splitting academic and vocational training has its continuation in the higher education system. While the academic training leads to the matura and free admission to universities, successfully completed vocational education gives access to third level of practical education, the \"Höhere Fachschule (Schweiz)\". If in addition to the vocational training the \"Berufsmaturitätsschule\" is completed the Fachhochschule may be visited instead. Rather recently introduced is a third, middle path via the Fachmittelschule which leads to a direct access to a \"Fachhochschule\" after a successful graduation of a \"Fachmatura\". In some cantons, students with a \"Fachmatura\" may also get access to universities after a successful additional year. In the science literacy assessment of PISA, 15-year-old students in Switzerland had the 16th highest average score of 57 countries.\n\nIn the lower second level, there are several different teaching and school models that may exist. Some cantons define a specific model, while others allow the individual municipalities to determine which model to follow.\n\nPupils are allocated to institutionally separate school types, according to their performance levels. The structure is based on the principle of equal capacities among pupils. Generally, each school type has its own adapted curricula, teaching material, teachers and, in some cases, its own range of subjects. In general, there are 2 to 3 school types (4 in a minority of cantons), the names of which vary. In the structure with 2 school types, a distinction is made between the performance-based group at basic level (with the least demanding requirements), and the performance-based group at advanced level. In the structure with 3 school types, there is a performance-based group at basic level, a performance-based group at intermediate level and a performance-based group at advanced level. The requirements of the performance-based group at advanced level are the most demanding and this school type generally prepares pupils for transfer to the matura schools.\n\nThe cooperative model is based on core classes with different performance requirements. Each pupil is assigned to a core class according to his or her performance level. The pupils attend lessons in certain subjects in differentiated requirement-based groups (whereby the core classes are mixed).\n\nThe integrated model does not use different school types or core classes. Pupils with different performance levels attend the same class and mixing is maintained. In certain subjects, teaching occurs on differentiated requirement-based levels.\n\nAs of January 2015, the International Schools Consultancy (ISC) listed Switzerland as having 105 international schools. ISC defines an 'international school' in the following terms \"ISC includes an international school if the school delivers a curriculum to any combination of pre-school, primary or secondary students, wholly or partly in English outside an English-speaking country, or if a school in a country where English is one of the official languages, offers an English-medium curriculum other than the country’s national curriculum and is international in its orientation.\" This definition is used by publications including The Economist.\n\nSwitzerland was the birthplace of the International Baccalaureate in 1968 and 50 schools in Switzerland offer one or more of the IB programmes (Primary, Middle Years, Diploma and Career-related Programmes).\n\nTertiary education depends on the education chosen in secondary education. For students with a matura, university is the most common one. Apprentices who attended a vocational high school will often add a Fachhochschule or a Höhere Fachschule to their curriculum.\n\nThere are 14 public and generic universities in Switzerland, 10 of which are maintained at cantonal level and usually offer a range of non-technical subjects. Of the remaining 4 institutions, 2 are run by the Swiss Confederation and are known as \"Swiss Federal Institutes of Technology\".\n\nSwitzerland is well known for its advanced business education system. A number of world-class universities and MBA programmes, such as the International Institute for Management Development, HEC Lausanne, St. Gallen, Kalaidos FH and University of Zurich belong to that category. All of them are also registered in the Financial Times ranking. See also the list of universities in Switzerland.\n\nSwitzerland has a high rate of international students. In 2013, 16.9% of the total tertiary enrollment in Switzerland came from outside the country, a rate that is the 10th highest of the 291 countries included in the UNESCO Institute for Statistics. This rate was just higher than Austria (16.8) and just lower than the United Kingdom (17.5). However, due to the much smaller tertiary system in Switzerland their 47,000 foreign tertiary enrollments are dwarfed by much larger countries such as the United States (740,000), the United Kingdom (416,000), France (228,000) and Germany (196,000). Many international students attend Swiss universities for advanced degrees. In 2013 masters programs enrolled about 27% foreign students (fourth highest rate) and doctoral programs were 52% foreign (second behind Luxembourg).\n\nSwitzerland also has a high rate of PhD students and inhabitants with doctoral degrees. In 2014 Switzerland had the highest rate of inhabitants (2.98%) with doctoral degrees in the world. In 2010, with 2.5%, Switzerland had the second-highest rate of inhabitants with doctoral degrees in Europe. In 2008, the number of students graduating with a PhD was 3209 (up from 2822 in 2000) of which 45% were foreigners (up from 31% in 2000).\n\nIn 1995 Switzerland took part in the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) assessment. TIMSS is an international assessment of the mathematics and science knowledge of fourth- and eighth-grade students around the world. It was developed by the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement (IEA) to allow participating nations to compare students' educational achievement across borders. In 1995, Switzerland was one of forty-one nations that participated in the study. They did not participate in later studies. Among 8th graders, Switzerland ranked 15th overall, 8th in math and 25th in science.\n\nA National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) study that used the TIMSS assessment among 12th graders found similar results. The Swiss students were in their upper secondary education and were attending either a gymnasium, general education, teacher training or advanced vocation training. In math, the Swiss scored a 540 (the average score was 500), and were 3rd out of 21. Their science score was 523, which was 8th out of 21. In physics, they scored 488 (the average was 501) and were tied for 9th place out of 16. The advanced mathematics score was 533 which was 3rd out of 16.\n\nThe World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Report for 2010-11 ranked Switzerland as first overall. Under the fifth pillar of the report, \"Higher education and training\", the Swiss had a score of 5.79, which is the fourth highest among all the countries surveyed.\n\nWhile compulsory schooling in Switzerland is between 9 and 11 years long, many of the specifics of the system vary by canton. In most cases, kindergarten lasts 1 to 2 years, primary level lasts 6 years, and the lower secondary level 3 years. In Ticino, there is a third, non-mandatory, kindergarten year, primary lasts 5 years, followed by 4 years of lower secondary. In some German speaking cantons kindergarten and the first one or two years may be combined into a \"Grundstufe\" or \"Basisstufe\" where they are all taught together in a single class. In the French speaking cantons (FR, GE, JU, NE, VD, VS) kindergarten is combined with primary to create 2 primary levels, each 4 years long. In 17 cantons, it is compulsory to attend pre-school. In almost all cantons, the municipalities are obliged to provide at least one year of pre-school classes.\n\nThis table shows the school system for 2017/2018 and how the lower secondary schools are organized:\n\nDuring the 2008/09 school year there were 1,502,257 students in the entire Swiss educational system. In kindergarten or pre-school, there were 152,919 students (48.6% female). These students were taught by 13,592 teachers (96.0% female) in 4,949 schools, of which 301 were private schools. There were 777,394 students (48.6% female) in the obligatory schools, which include primary and lower secondary schools. These students were taught by 74,501 teachers (66.3% female) in 6,083 schools, of which 614 were private. The upper secondary school system had 337,145 students (46.9% female). They were taught by 13,900 teachers (42.3% female) in 730 schools, of which 240 were private. The tertiary education system had 234,799 students (49.7% female). They were taught by 37,546 teachers (32.8% female) in 367 schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "427182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427182", "title": "Errors, freaks, and oddities", "text": "Errors, freaks, and oddities\n\nIn philately, errors, freaks, and oddities (EFO) refers to all the kinds of things that can go wrong when producing postage stamps. It encompasses everything from major design errors to stamps that are just poorly printed, and includes both some of the most sought-after and expensive of all stamps, and others that attract the attention of only a few specialists.\n\nPostal authorities generally take some care to ensure that mistakes do not get out of the printing plant; to be valid, the EFO stamps must have been sold to a customer. Mistakes smuggled out by unscrupulous employees are called printer's waste, not recognized as legitimate stamps, and may be confiscated from collectors; the Nixon invert is a well-known recent example of an apparent new error that turned out to be simple theft by insiders. The authorities may attempt to lay hands on legitimately sold errors, as happened with the original Inverted Jenny sheet, but usually collectors are smart enough to hang onto the windfall.\n\nA postage stamp error is any of several types of failure in the stamp printing process that results in stamps not having the intended appearance. Errors include use of the wrong colors, wrong denominations, missing parts of the design, misplaced or inverted design elements, etc. The term \"error\" is typically reserved for obvious failures in the production process that (potentially) replicate over many stamps, while unique errors or poor quality are known as \"freaks\" or \"oddities\". Printing plate flaws, such as cracks, wear, or even constant flaws, and plate repairs, such as re-entries, are also not considered errors.\n\nGenuine errors are uncommon or even rare; postal administrations have several layers of quality control and inspection, and most printing problems are addressed before the stamps ever reach the public. A particular error may only exist in a few dozen copies, and some well-known errors, such as the Treskilling Yellow, are unique (so far as we know). They are prized by collectors, with some fetching prices thousands of times higher than the normal stamp of their type.\n\nErrors are known at every stage of production, starting from design, to engraving, to replication of the die, to printing itself, and to perforation. (In theory gumming errors are possible, in practice used stamps have no gum, so any error would become undetectable).\n\nThe largest run of an error on a postage stamp is the 2011 United States 'Forever Statue of Liberty Stamp'. The stamp shows the replica of the Statue of Liberty in Las Vegas rather than the original Statue of Liberty in New York. The stamp was released in December 2010 and the error was not noticed until March 2011. The error was identified by Sunipix, a stock photo agency in Texas. Ten and a half billion of the error stamps were produced.\n\nCollectors understand that a minor error in one stamp catalog might not be considered an error at all in another catalog. Additionally, no definitions of the terms freaks and oddities are universally accepted within the EFO community. John Hotchner has authored many respected articles about this subject that provide clarity.\n\nThe following is a list of the major types of errors.\n\nA \"freak\" is a one-time mishap in the production process. Freaks include paper folds resulting in half-printed half-blank stamps, \"crazy perfs\" running diagonally across stamps, and insects embedded in stamps, underneath the ink.\n\nAn \"oddity\" is something that is within the bounds of usability for the stamp, but still has a distinctive appearance. The usual sort of oddity is misregistration on a multi-colored stamp, which can result in shirts apparently with two sets of buttons, eyes above the top of a person's head, and so forth. These can be extremely common. The Canadian Christmas stamp of 1898, depicting a map of the world with British possessions in red, is famous for unusual color oddities that appear to claim all of Europe, or the United States, or central Asia for Britain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "596726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=596726", "title": "Expectancy theory", "text": "Expectancy theory\n\nExpectancy theory (or expectancy theory of motivation) proposes an individual will behave or act in a certain way because they are motivated to select a specific behavior over other behaviors due to what they expect the result of that selected behavior will be. In essence, the motivation of the behavior selection is determined by the desirability of the outcome. However, at the core of the theory is the cognitive process of how an individual processes the different motivational elements. This is done before making the ultimate choice. The outcome is not the sole determining factor in making the decision of how to behave.\n\nExpectancy theory is about the mental processes regarding choice, or choosing. It explains the processes that an individual undergoes to make choices. In the study of organizational behavior, expectancy theory is a motivation theory first proposed by Victor Vroom of the Yale School of Management.\n\"This theory emphasizes the needs for organizations to relate rewards directly to performance and to ensure that the rewards provided are those rewards deserved and wanted by the recipients.\"\nVictor H. Vroom (1964) defines motivation as a process governing choices among alternative forms of voluntary activities, a process controlled by the individual. The individual makes choices based on estimates of how well the expected results of a given behavior are going to match up with or eventually lead to the desired results. Motivation is a product of the individual's expectancy that a certain effort will lead to the intended performance, the instrumentality of this performance to achieving a certain result, and the desirability of this result for the individual, known as \"valence\".\n\nIn 1964, Victor H. Vroom developed the expectancy theory through his study of the motivations behind decision making. This theory is relevant to the study of management.\n\nThe expectancy theory of motivation explains the behavioral process of why individuals choose one behavioral option over the other. This theory explains that individuals can be motivated towards goals if they believe that there is a positive correlation between efforts and performance, the outcome of a favorable performance will result in a desirable reward, a reward from a performance will satisfy an important need, and/or the outcome satisfies their need enough to make the effort worthwhile.\nVroom introduced three variables within the expectancy theory which are valence (V), expectancy (E) and instrumentality (I). The three elements are important behind choosing one element over another because they are clearly defined: effort-performance expectancy (E>P expectancy), performance-outcome expectancy (P>O expectancy).\n\nExpectancy theory has three components: expectancy, instrumentality, and valence.\n\n\nExpectancy is the belief that one's effort (E) will result in attainment of desired performance (P) goals. Usually based on an individual's past experience, self-confidence (self efficacy), and the perceived difficulty of the performance standard or goal.\n\nInstrumentality is the belief that a person will receive a reward if the performance expectation is met. This reward may present itself in the form of a pay increase, promotion, recognition or sense of accomplishment. Instrumentality is low when the reward is the same for all performances given.\n\nAnother way that instrumental outcomes work is commissions. With commissions performance is directly correlated with outcome (how much money is made). If performance is high and many goods are sold the more money the person will make.\n\nFactors associated with the individual's instrumentality for outcomes are trust, control and policies:\n\nValence: the value an individual places on the rewards of an outcome, which is based on their needs, goals, values and sources of motivation. Influential factors include one's values, needs, goals, preferences and sources that strengthen their motivation for a particular outcome.\n\nValence is characterized by the extent to which a person values a given outcome or reward. This is not an actual level of satisfaction rather the expected satisfaction of a particular outcome.\n\nThe valence refers to the value the individual personally places on the rewards. -1 →0→ +1\n\n-1= avoiding the outcome 0 = indifferent to the outcome +1 = welcomes the outcome\n\nIn order for the valence to be positive, the person must prefer attaining the outcome to not attaining it.\n\nMotivational Force (MF) = Expectancy x Instrumentality x Valence\n\nWhen deciding among behavioral options, individuals select the option with the greatest amount of motivational force (MF). \nExpectancy and instrumentality are attitudes (cognitions), whereas valence is rooted in an individual's value system.\nExamples of valued outcomes in the workplace include, pay increases and bonuses, promotions, time off, new assignments, recognition, etc. If management can effectively determine what their employee values, this will allow the manager to motivate employees in order to get the highest result and effectiveness out of the workplace.\n\nVictor Vroom's expectancy theory is one such management theory focused on motivation. According to Holdford and Lovelace-Elmore (2001, p. 8), Vroom asserts, \"intensity of work effort depends on the perception that an individual's effort will result in a desired outcome\".\n\nIn order to enhance the performance-outcome tie, managers should use systems that tie rewards very closely to performance. Managers also need to ensure that the rewards provided are deserved and wanted by the recipients. In order to improve the effort-performance tie, managers should engage in training to improve their capabilities and improve their belief that added effort will in fact lead to better performance.\n\n- Emphasizes self-interest in the alignment of rewards with employee's wants.\n\n- Emphasizes the connections among expected behaviors, rewards and organizational goals\n\nExpectancy Theory, though well known in work motivation literature, is not as familiar to scholars or practitioners outside that field.\n\nLori Baker-Eveleth and Robert Stone, University of Idaho in 2008 conducted an empirical study on 154 faculty members' reactions to the use of new software. It was found that ease of system use affects both self-efficacy (self-confidence) and anticipated usefulness. These in turn influenced the decision, or anticipated decision, to use the software. \n\nSelf-efficacy and outcome expectancy impact a person's affect and behavior separately: \n\n- Self-efficacy is the belief that a person possesses the skills and abilities to successfully accomplish something.\n\n- Outcome expectancy is the belief that when a person accomplishes the task, a desired outcome is attained. \n\nSelf-efficacy has a direct impact on outcome expectancy and has a larger effect than outcome expectancy. Employees will accept technology if they believe the technology is a benefit to them. If an employee is mandated to use the technology, the employees will use it but may feel it is not useful. On the other hand, when an employee is not mandated, the employee may be influenced by these other factors (self-confidene and confidence in outcome) that it should be used.\n\nThe self-efficacy theory can be applied to predicting and perceiving an employee's belief for computer use (Bandura, 1986; Bates & Khasawneh, 2007). This theory associates an individual's cognitive state with effective behavioral outcomes (Staples, Hulland, & Higgins, 1998).\n\nOther constructs of the self-efficacy theory that impact attitudes and intentions to perform are:\n\n- past experience or mastery with the task; \n\n- vicarious experience performing the task; \n\n- emotional or physiological arousal regarding the task; \n\n- and social persuasion to perform the task.\n\nJere Brophy and Thomas Good provided a comprehensive model of how teacher expectations could influence children's achievement. Their model posits that teachers' expectations indirectly affect children's achievement: \"teacher expectations could also affect student outcomes indirectly by leading to differential teacher treatment of students that would condition student attitudes, expectations, and behavior\" (Brophy, 1983, p. 639). The model includes the following sequence. Teachers form differential expectations for students early in the school year. Based on these expectations, they behave differently toward different students, and as a result of these behaviors the students begin to understand what the teacher expects from them. If students accept the teachers' expectations and behavior toward them then they will be more likely to act in ways that confirm the teacher's initial expectations. This process will ultimately affect student achievement so that teachers' initial expectancies are confirmed.\n\nIn discussing work related to this model, Brophy (1983) made several important observations about teacher expectation effects. First and foremost, he argued that most of the beliefs teachers hold about student are accurate, and so their expectations usually reflect students' actual performance levels. As a result, Brophy contended that self-fulfilling prophecy effects have relatively weak effects on student achievement, changing achievement 5% to 10%, although he did note that such effects usually are negative expectation effects rather than positive effects. Second, he pointed out that various situational and individual difference factors influence the extent to which teacher expectations will act as self-fulfilling prophecies. For instance, Brophy stated that expectancy effects may be larger in the early elementary grades, because teachers have more one-on-one interactions with students then, as they attempt to socialize children into the student role. In the upper elementary grades more whole-class teaching methods are used, which may minimize expectation effects. Some evidence supports this claim; expectancy effects in Rosenthal and Jacobson's (1968) study were strongest during the earlier grades. Raudenbush's (1984) meta-analysis of findings from different teacher expectancy studies in which expectancies were induced by giving teachers artificial information about children's intelligence showed that expectancy effects were stronger in Grades 1 and 2 than in Grades 3 through Grade 6, especially when the information was given to teachers during the first few weeks of school. These findings are particularly relevant because they show a form of the expectancy theory: how teachers have certain expectations of students, and how they treat the students differently because of those expectations.\n\nCritics of the expectancy model include Graen (1969), Lawler (1971), Lawler and Porter (1967), and Porter and Lawler (1968). Their criticisms of the theory were based upon the expectancy model being too simplistic in nature; these critics started making adjustments to Vroom's model.\n\nEdward Lawler claims that the simplicity of expectancy theory is deceptive because it assumes that if an employer makes a reward, such as a financial bonus or promotion, enticing enough, employees will increase their productivity to obtain the reward. However, this only works if the employees believe the reward is beneficial to their immediate needs. For example, a $2 increase in salary may not be desirable to an employee if the increase pushes her into a tax bracket in which she believes her net pay is actually reduced, which is actually impossible in the United States with marginal tax brackets. Similarly, a promotion that provides higher status but requires longer hours may be a deterrent to an employee who values evening and weekend time with their children.\n\nIn addition to that, if anyone in the armed forces or security agencies is promoted, there is a must condition for such promotions, that he/she will be transferred to other locations. In such cases, if the new place is far from their permanent residence, where their family is residing, they will not be motivated by such promotions, and the results will be other way round. Because, the outcome, which this reward (promotion) will yield, may not be valued by those who are receiving it.\n\nLawler's new proposal for expectancy theory is not against Vroom's theory. Lawler argues that since there have been a variety of developments of expectancy theory since its creation in 1964; the expectancy model needs to be updated. Lawler's new model is based on four claims. First, whenever there are a number of outcomes, individuals will usually have a preference among those outcomes. Two, there is a belief on the part of that individual that their action(s) will achieve the outcome they desire. Three, any desired outcome was generated by the individual's behavior. Finally, the actions generated by the individual were generated by the preferred outcome and expectation of the individual.\n\nInstead of just looking at expectancy and instrumentality, W.F. Maloney and J.M. McFillen found that expectancy theory could explain the motivation of those individuals who were employed by the construction industry. For instance, they used worker expectancy and worker instrumentality. Worker expectancy is when supervisors create an equal match between the worker and their job. Worker instrumentality is when an employee knows that any increase in their performance leads to achieving their goal.\n\nIn the chapter entitled \"On the Origins of Expectancy Theory\" published in \"Great Minds in Management\" by Ken G. Smith and Michael A. Hitt, Vroom himself agreed with some of these criticisms and stated that he felt that the theory should be expanded to include research conducted since the original publication of his book.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "221220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221220", "title": "Far-right politics", "text": "Far-right politics\n\nFar-right politics are politics further on the right of the left-right spectrum than the standard political right, particularly in terms of extreme nationalism, nativist ideologies, and authoritarian tendencies.\n\nThe term is often used to describe Nazism, neo-Nazism, fascism, neo-fascism and other ideologies or organizations that feature ultranationalist, chauvinist, xenophobic, racist, anti-communist or reactionary views. These can lead to oppression and violence against groups of people based on their supposed inferiority, or their perceived threat to the native ethnic group, nation, state or ultraconservative traditional social institutions.\n\nFar-right politics includes but is not limited to aspects of authoritarianism, anti-communism and nativism. Claims that superior people should have greater rights than inferior people are often associated with the far-right. The far-right has historically favored an elitist society based on its belief in the legitimacy of the rule of a supposed superior minority over the inferior masses. \n\nSome aspects of fascist ideology have been identified with right-wing political parties: in particular, the fascist idea that superior persons should dominate society while undesirable elements should be purged, which in the case of Nazism resulted in genocide. Charles Grant, director of the Centre for European Reform in London, has distinguished between right-wing nationalist parties—which are often described as far-right such as the National Front in France—and fascism. One issue is whether parties should be labelled radical or extreme, a distinction that is made by the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany when determining whether or not a party should be banned. Another question is what the label \"right\" implies when it is applied to the extreme right, given the fact that many parties that were originally labeled right-wing extremist tended to advance neoliberal and free market agendas as late as the 1980s, but now advocate economic policies which are more traditionally associated with the left, such as anti-globalisation, nationalization and protectionism. One approach, drawing on the writings of Norberto Bobbio, argues that attitudes towards political equality are what distinguish the left from the right and they therefore allow these parties to be positioned on the right of the political spectrum. \n\nThere is also debate about how appropriate the labels fascist or neo-Fascist are. According to Cas Mudde, \"the labels Neo-Nazi and to a lesser extent neo-Fascism are now used exclusively for parties and groups that explicitly state a desire to restore the Third Reich or quote historical National Socialism as their ideological influence\".\n\nRight-wing populism, a political ideology that often combines \"laissez-faire\" capitalism, nationalism, ethnocentrism and anti-elitism, is sometimes described as far-right. Right-wing populism often involves appeals to the \"common man\" and opposition to immigration. Far-right politics sometimes involves anti-immigration and anti-integration stances towards groups that are deemed inferior and undesirable. Concerning the socio-cultural dimension of nationality, culture and migration, one far-right position is the view that certain ethnic, racial or religious groups should stay separate and it is based on the belief that the interests of one's own group should be prioritised. \n\nProponents of the horseshoe theory interpretation of the left-right spectrum identify the far-left and the far-right as having more in common with each other as extremists than each of them has with moderate centrists.\n\nIn the United States, the term hard right has been used to describe groups such as the Tea Party movement and the Patriot movement.\n\nThe term has also been used to describe ideologies such as paleoconservatism, Dominion Theology and white nationalism.\n\nThe German political scientist Klaus von Beyme describes three historical phases in the development of far-right parties in Western Europe after World War II.\n\nFrom 1945 to the mid-1950s, far-right parties were marginalised and their ideologies were discredited due to the recent existence and defeat of Nazism. Thus in the years immediately following World War II, the main objective of far-right parties was survival and achieving any political impact at all was largely not expected.\n\nFrom the mid-1950s to the 1970s, the so-called \"populist protest phase\" emerged with sporadic electoral success. During this period, far-right parties drew to them charismatic leaders whose profound mistrust of the political establishment led to an \"us-versus-them\" mind set: \"us\" being the nation's citizenry, \"them\" being the politicians and bureaucrats who were then in office.\n\nBeginning in the 1980s, the electoral successes of far-right political candidates made it possible for far-right political parties to revitalize anti-immigration as a mainstream issue.\n\nJens Rydgren describes a number of theories as to why individuals support far-right political parties and the academic literature on this topic distinguishes between demand-side theories that have changed the \"interests, emotions, attitudes and preferences of voters\" and supply-side theories which focus on the programmes of parties, their organisation and the opportunity structures within individual political systems. The most common demand-side theories are the social breakdown thesis, the relative deprivation thesis, the modernisation losers thesis and the ethnic competition thesis. The rise of far-right political parties has also been viewed as a rejection of post-materialist values on the part of some voters. This theory which is known as the reverse post-material thesis blames both left-wing and progressive parties for embracing a post-material agenda (including feminism and environmentalism) that alienates traditional working class voters. Another study argues that individuals who join far-right parties determine whether those parties develop into major political players or whether they remain marginalized.\n\nEarly academic studies adopted psychoanalytical explanations for the far-right's support. For example, the 1933 publication \"The Mass Psychology of Fascism\" by Wilhelm Reich argued the theory that fascists came to power in Germany as a result of sexual repression. For some far-right political parties in Western Europe, the issue of immigration has become the dominant issue among them, so much so that some scholars refer to these parties as \"anti-immigrant\" parties.\n\nRight-wing terrorism is terrorism motivated by a variety of far right ideologies and beliefs, including anti-communism, neo-fascism, neo-Nazism, racism, xenophobia and opposition to immigration. This type of terrorism has been sporadic, with little or no international cooperation. Modern right-wing terrorism first appeared in western Europe in the 1980s and it first appeared in Eastern Europe following the dissolution of the Soviet Union.\n\nRight-wing terrorists aim to overthrow governments and replace them with nationalist or fascist-oriented governments. The core of this movement includes neo-fascist skinheads, far-right hooligans, youth sympathisers and intellectual guides who believe that the state must rid itself of foreign elements in order to protect rightful citizens. However, they usually lack a rigid ideology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1136991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1136991", "title": "Filing (law)", "text": "Filing (law)\n\nIn law, filing is the act of submitting a document to the clerk of a court for the court's immediate consideration and for storage in the court's files. Courts will not consider motions unless an appropriate memorandum or brief is filed before the appropriate deadline. Usually a filing fee is paid which is part of court costs.\n\nIn civil procedure systems, filing rules can be mandatory or permissive. In a mandatory filing system, \"all\" documents of legal importance exchanged between the parties are also filed with the court, while in a permissive filing system, \"nothing\" needs to be filed until the case reaches a point where direct judicial management is absolutely necessary (such as the brink of trial).\n\nFor example, the United States federal courts operate on a mandatory filing system (with minor exceptions for the most routine discovery exchanges). In contrast, the U.S. state of New York is known for its permissive filing system, which was modified in 1992 but still largely operates in its traditional form in certain lower courts.\n\nFiling may also refer to submission of a form to a government agency, with or without an accompanying fee.\n\nFiling traditionally has been performed by visiting a clerk at a filing window, paying a filing fee by cash, check, or credit card, and submitting the document to be filed in duplicate or even triplicate. For each document filed, the court clerk inspects the document to ensure compliance with the court's rules on how legal documents should be formatted, verifies that the filer has not been declared a vexatious litigant, and confirms that the case number and caption are for a valid case. Next, the court clerk then stamps both copies with a large stamp that indicates the name of the court and the date the document was filed, then keeps one copy for the court's files and returns one copy to the filer for the filer's own records. In courts that require triplicate submissions, the third copy is then taken (either by the clerk or by the filer) to the chambers or courtroom of the judge assigned to the case. The clerk then adds the document to the docket for the case as well as any related deadlines or events.\n\nIf the document is the first pleading filed in a case (usually the complaint), the court clerk also assigns a new case number and opens a new file for the case.\n\nA newer phenomenon is electronic filing, in which lawyers simply upload Portable Document Format electronic documents to a secure Web site maintained either by the court (for example, the U.S. has CM/ECF) or by a private commercial service like LexisNexis. This is convenient in that many courts can now accept filings at all hours, rather than only during regular business hours. Where e-filing is in effect, the filer is normally required to lodge a \"courtesy copy\" (that is, a conventional paper copy) at the chambers of the assigned judge by the next business day. The courtesy copy of the filing is merely used to decide the motion at issue and is discarded when no longer needed, since the electronic file is now the court's master copy of the case file.\n\nA few progressive courts, such as the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada, now work primarily with electronic files and have abolished the courtesy copy requirement for small filings below a certain number of pages.\n\nGenerally, filing fees are controversial because some individuals believe that they impede access to justice. Although American litigants complain about fees all the time (for example, it costs $400 to file a complaint in Los Angeles), the American system is considered to be quite plaintiff-friendly by lawyers.\n\nMany legal systems have filing fees for complaints that are \"proportional\" to the amount sought. Thus, the greater the damages sought, the higher the fee to file.\n\nEven when one seeks a waiver for grossly unfair fees, courts tend to waive only the amount in excess of the plaintiff's total assets, with the result that just to initiate a meritorious case, an already severely injured or damaged plaintiff may have to go bankrupt. What some consider to be the inherent unfairness of this system as actually implemented in Austria resulted in a U.S. Supreme Court decision, \"Republic of Austria v. Altmann\" (2004).\n"}
{"id": "33223066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33223066", "title": "Furu language", "text": "Furu language\n\nFuru is a Central Sudanic language of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. \"Glottolog\" has it as one of the Kara languages, but Blench (2000) lists it as a Kresh language.\n\n"}
{"id": "1884464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884464", "title": "GBTW", "text": "GBTW\n"}
{"id": "39596588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39596588", "title": "Göran Rosenberg", "text": "Göran Rosenberg\n\nGöran Jakob Rosenberg (born 11 October 1948) is a Swedish journalist and author of Jewish descent. \n\nRosenberg was born in Södertälje, Sweden, the son of David and Hala Rosenberg from Łódź in Poland, who both came to Sweden after having survived Nazi concentration camps during World War II. He has written about his father's story and his childhood in the book \"A Brief Stop on the Road from Auschwitz\" (2012).\n\nRosenberg has worked at Sveriges Radio and Sveriges Television; 1979–85, he was host and reporter of the current affairs programme \"Magasinet\". In 1990, he founded the magazine \"Moderna tider\", which he was editor-in-chief of until 1999, and he also hosted the current affairs programme with the same name which was broadcast in TV3. From 1991 to 2011, he worked as columnist at \"Dagens Nyheter\". Since 2012, he writes for \"Expressen\". \n\nHe is the father of actress Vanna Rosenberg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22342251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22342251", "title": "Harald Noreng", "text": "Harald Noreng\n\nHarald Noreng (25 April 1913 – 7 February 2006) was a Norwegian literary researcher and lexicographer.\n\nHe was born on the island of Hisøya in the municipality of Hisøy in 1913. He was the son of boat builder Johan Wilhelm Hanssen (1887–1967) and Kathrine Marie Pettersen (1888–1971). He changed his last name from Hanssen to Noreng in 1933. In February 1941 he married jurist Alice Schwabe-Hansen (1915–2004). They had two children, Øystein Noreng (1942–) and Astrid Noreng Sjølie (1946–).\n\nHe finished his secondary education in 1932, and enrolled in philology at the University of Oslo. He took the cand.philol. degree in 1940 with the thesis \"Nils Kjær og nyromantikken\". He worked as a teacher, mainly at Oslo Cathedral School, until 1958, except for several years as a researcher. He held research fellowship both at the University of Oslo, Lund University and at NAVF. He took the dr.philos. degree in 1949 with the thesis \"Nils Kjær. Fra radikal til reaksjonær\". The opponents at his thesis defence were Francis Bull, A. H. Winsnes and Gunnar Høst. In 1958 he was hired as a lecturer at the University of Oslo. From 1960 to 1980 he was a professor of European literature at the University of Bergen. Among his later works the publication the complete works of Christian Braunmann Tullin between 1972 and 1976.\n\nAfter retiring as a professor he led the long-time project to register and list every word used throughout the authorship of Henrik Ibsen in an electronic database. The project spanned from 1978 to 1986, and resulted in the 1987 release \"Henrik Ibsens ordskatt. Vokabular over hans diktning\", edited by Noreng, Knut Hofland and Kristin Natvig. Noreng also worked with volumes one through four of the dictionary \"Norsk Riksmålsordbok\" between 1938 and 1957, and in 1995 he wrote two extra volumes. For this he received the Fritt Ord Honorary Award in 1995. He died in February 2006 in Oslo.\n"}
{"id": "29322085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29322085", "title": "Henri Gaidoz", "text": "Henri Gaidoz\n\nHenri Gaidoz (1842–1932), was a collector and researcher of materials relating to folklore. His works and expertise was in the fields of philology, Celtic studies, archaeology, religion, and mythology.\n\nIn addition to his extensive collection of extracts and other materials, he sought to elevate the fields of folklore and mythology to a level of professionalism; Gaidoz founded two journals, \"Melusine\" and Revue Celtique. He opposed many contemporary views, and lampooned the writer Max Müller in an article that proved he 'was a solar myth'.\n"}
{"id": "2164726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164726", "title": "Hilbert's twelfth problem", "text": "Hilbert's twelfth problem\n\nKronecker's Jugendtraum or Hilbert's twelfth problem, of the 23 mathematical Hilbert problems, is the extension of the Kronecker–Weber theorem on abelian extensions of the rational numbers, to any base number field. That is, it asks for analogues of the roots of unity, as complex numbers that are particular values of the exponential function; the requirement is that such numbers should generate a whole family of further number fields that are analogues of the cyclotomic fields and their subfields.\n\nThe classical theory of complex multiplication, now often known as the \"Kronecker Jugendtraum\", does this for the case of any imaginary quadratic field, by using modular functions and elliptic functions chosen with a particular period lattice related to the field in question. Goro Shimura extended this to CM fields. The general case is still open . Leopold Kronecker described the complex multiplication issue as his \"\" or “dearest dream of his youth”.\n\nThe fundamental problem of algebraic number theory is to describe the fields of algebraic numbers. The work of Galois made it clear that field extensions are controlled by certain groups, the Galois groups. The simplest situation, which is already at the boundary of what is well-understood, is when the group in question is abelian. All quadratic extensions, obtained by adjoining the roots of a quadratic polynomial, are abelian, and their study was commenced by Gauss. Another type of abelian extension of the field Q of rational numbers is given by adjoining the \"n\"th roots of unity, resulting in the cyclotomic fields. Already Gauss had shown that, in fact, every quadratic field is contained in a larger cyclotomic field. The Kronecker–Weber theorem shows that any finite abelian extension of Q is contained in a cyclotomic field. Kronecker's (and Hilbert's) question addresses the situation of a more general algebraic number field K: what are the algebraic numbers necessary to construct all abelian extensions of K? The complete answer to this question has been completely worked out only when K is an imaginary quadratic field or its generalization, a CM-field.\n\nHilbert's original statement of his 12th problem is rather misleading: he seems to imply that the abelian extensions of imaginary quadratic fields are generated by special values of elliptic modular functions, which is not correct. (It is hard to tell exactly what Hilbert was saying, one problem being that he may have been using the term \"elliptic function\" to mean both the elliptic function ℘ and the elliptic modular function \"j\".)\nFirst it is also necessary to use roots of unity, though Hilbert may have implicitly meant to include these. More seriously, while values of elliptic modular functions generate the Hilbert class field, for more general abelian extensions one also needs to use values of elliptic functions. For example, the abelian extension formula_1 is not generated by singular moduli and roots of unity.\n\nOne particularly appealing way to state the Kronecker–Weber theorem is by saying that the maximal abelian extension of Q can be obtained by adjoining the special values exp(2π\"i\"/\"n\") of the exponential function. Similarly, the theory of complex multiplication shows that the maximal abelian extension of Q(τ), where τ is an imaginary quadratic irrationality, can be obtained by adjoining the special values of ℘(τ,\"z\") and \"j\"(τ) of modular functions \"j\" and elliptic functions ℘, and roots of unity, where τ is in the imaginary quadratic field and \"z\" represents a torsion point on the corresponding elliptic curve. One interpretation of Hilbert's twelfth problem asks to provide a suitable analogue of exponential, elliptic, or modular functions, whose special values would generate the maximal abelian extension K of a general number field K. In this form, it remains unsolved. A description of the field K was obtained in the class field theory, developed by Hilbert\nhimself, Emil Artin, and others in the first half of the 20th century. However the construction of K in class field theory involves first constructing larger non-abelian extensions using Kummer theory, and then cutting down to the abelian extensions, so does not really solve Hilbert's problem which asks for a more direct construction of the abelian extensions.\n\nDevelopments since around 1960 have certainly contributed. Before that in his dissertation used Hilbert modular forms to study abelian extensions of real quadratic fields. Complex multiplication of abelian varieties was an area opened up by the work of Shimura and Taniyama. This gives rise to abelian extensions of CM-fields in general. The question of which extensions can be found is that of the Tate modules of such varieties, as Galois representations. Since this is the most accessible case of l-adic cohomology, these representations have been studied in depth.\n\nRobert Langlands argued in 1973 that the modern version of the \"\" should deal with Hasse–Weil zeta functions of Shimura varieties. While he envisaged a grandiose program that would take the subject much further, more than thirty years later serious doubts remain concerning its import for the question that Hilbert asked.\n\nA separate development was Stark's conjecture (Harold Stark), which in contrast dealt directly with the question of finding interesting, particular units in number fields. This has seen a large conjectural development for L-functions, and is also capable of producing concrete, numerical results.\n\n"}
{"id": "33336203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33336203", "title": "Honi language", "text": "Honi language\n\nThe Honi language, also known as Haoni, Baihong, Hao-Bai, or Ho, is a language of the Loloish (Yi) branch of the Tibeto-Burman linguistic group spoken in Yunnan, China. The Chinese government groups speakers of this language into the Hani nationality, one of China's 56 recognized nationalities and considers the language to be a dialect of the wider Hani languages. Honi itself is divided into two distinct dialects, Baihong and Haoni, which may be separate languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "38328692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38328692", "title": "Ibn Kemal", "text": "Ibn Kemal\n\nŞemseddin Ahmed (1468–1536), better known by his pen name Ibn Kemal or Kemalpaşazâde (\"son of Kemal Pasha\"), was an Ottoman historian, Sheikh ul-Islam, lawyer and poet.\n\nHe was born into a distinguished military family in Edirne and as a young man he served in the army and later studied at various madrasas and became the Kadı of Edirne in 1515. He became a highly respected scholar and was commissioned by the Ottoman ruler Bayezid II to write an Ottoman history (\"Tevarih-i Al-i Osman\", \"The Chronicles of the House of Osman\"). During the reign of Selim I, in 1516, he was appointed as military judge of Anatolia and accompanied the Ottoman army to Egypt. During the reign of Suleiman I he was appointed as the Sheikh ul-Islam, i.e. supreme head of the Muslim \"ulema\", a post which he held until his death.\n\nHe \"authored around 200 works in Turkish, Persian, and Arabic. His works include commentaries on the Qur'an, treatises on hadith, Islamic law, philosophy and theology (kalam), logic, Sufism, ethics, history, several books on Arabic and Persian grammar, literature, and a small diwan of poetry.\" \n\nHis most famous history work is the \"Tevarih-i Al-i Osman\" (\"The Chronicles of the House of Osman\"), a history of the Ottoman Empire which provides the most original and important source material now extant on the reigns during which he himself lived. Although best known as a historian, Kemalpaşazâde was also a great scholar and a talented poet. He wrote numerous scholarly commentaries on the Quran, treatises on jurisprudence and Muslim theology and philosophy, and during his stay in Egypt he translated the works of the Egyptian historian Abu al-Mahasin ibn Taghribirdi from Arabic. He also wrote in Arabic, a philological work entitled \"Daqaʿiq al-Haqaʿiq\" (\"The Subtleties of Verities\"). His best poetical works include the Nigaristan (\"The Picture Gallery\"), written in Persian and modeled upon the Būstān and the Golestān of Saadi; a poem, Yusuf ü Züleyha, in rhymed couplets retelling the story of Joseph and Potiphar's wife; and Divān (\"Collected Poems\"), consisting mainly of lyrics. In philosophy and theology, he followed Ibn 'Arabi and anticipated some theories of Mulla Sadra. \n\n"}
{"id": "44750263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44750263", "title": "Inge von Wangenheim", "text": "Inge von Wangenheim\n\nIngeborg \"Inge\" von Wangenheim (born Berlin 1 July 1912: died Weimar 6 April 1993) was a German actress who married actor Gustav Von Wangenheim and joined the Communist Party. After the war, she became a successful East German writer.\n\nShe also had a talent for photography: she left an intriguing photographic archive from the years she spent living in Moscow during the 1930s and 40s. The archive is the more remarkable because it concerns a time and places where, for both economic and political reasons, very few people would have had access to photographic equipment.\n\nInge Franke was born into a working-class family in Berlin. Her mother was a garment worker. On leaving she attended a drama academy, before taking a succession of minor acting roles at various theatres including that at the Schiffbauerdamm, also taking small parts in productions staged by Erwin Piscator. She joined the Communist Party (KPD) in 1930. In 1931 she joined , a newly formed theatre group created from the communist cell in the . The originator and leader of \"Truppe 1931\" was an actor-impresario called Gustav von Wangenheim, whom Inge would later marry. Wangenheim had himself made a name as a silent film actor (his most remembered role would be as Thomas Hutter in Nosferatu, a cult, silent horror film made in 1922).\n\nIn January 1933 the NSDAP (Nazi Party) took power and quickly set about creating a one party state. Membership of any party other than the Nazi party – and particularly of the Communist Party – became illegal. Ingeborg went into exile, initially to Belgium and France, then moving on with Gustav von Wangenheim to Moscow where, as she would later write, she arrived in a spirit of \"naive enthusiasm\". In Moscow she was able to work as a journalist and as an actress, joining the Moscow-based \"German Theatre Crew of the Left\" (\"Deutsche Theater Kolonne Links\") in 1934. In 1937 Inge von Wangenheim took Soviet citizenship. On the stage her appearances included the starring role, alongside Bruno Schmidtsdorf, in the Moscow produced anti-fascist film, , directed and scripted by her husband Gustav von Wangenheim.\n\nWhen the German army invaded the Soviet Union von Wangenheim was evacuated, first to Kazan in the Russian east and later to Tashkent. During the period of the evacuation her younger son, Edi, died in Chistopol aged 8 months in 1941. She was able to return to Moscow in 1943, working as a contributing editor for the National Committee for a Free Germany (NKFD / \"Nationalkomitee Freies Deutschland\") and for the eponymous German language radio broadcaster.\n\nIn 1945 Inge von Wangenheim returned to what was left of Germany, settling in the Soviet occupation zone. This part of the country was being transformed into a separate Germany, the German Democratic Republic. In 1946 she became a member of the new country's newly formed ruling SED (party), which had been created through a contrived merger in East Germany of the old Communist and SPD parties. In the years that followed she became involved with the \"Association of German People's Theatre\" (\"Bund Deutscher Volksbühnen\"), working during 1947/48 as editor of the organisation's journal \"Volksbühne\". In addition, she resumed her theatre career, both as an actress and a producer. She appeared in the Deutsches Theater, which in 1945 was reopened by her husband, in East Berlin. She also undertook work for the East German state-owned film studio DEFA. She starred in the 1948 film \"Und wieder 48\" (\"Another '48\") which was scripted and directed by her husband, and which concerned itself with the revolutionary events of 1848, inevitably inviting comparisons with 1948.\n\nFrom 1949 she worked, primarily, as a writer. Inge von Wangenheim was a member of the (East) German Writers' Association, and later a member of its executive committee.\n\nGustav and Ingeborg von Wangenheim were divorced in 1960 after which Ingeborg moved to Rudolstadt in Thuringia and lived in a lesbian partnership. She and her partner moved again to nearby Weimar in 1974. Her daughter's family managed to emigrate to West Germany in 1982, but Ingeborg stayed in the German Democratic Republic till its end, and died in Weimar less than three years after the reunification.\n\nInge von Wangenheim's literary output includes novels, memoirs, essays and travel books. She produced novels covering the creation and development phase of the German Democratic Republic, such as \"Am Morgen ist der Tag ein Kind\", an account of the uprising of 17 June 1953 from the perspective of The Party. Two other particularly noteworthy books are her memories of her time in Soviet exile, contained in \"Mein Haus Vaterland\" und \"Auf weitem Feld\". Both works are silent about the darker aspects of existence in Stalin's Russia.\n\nIn the 1960s von Wangenheim also started to pen reports about her travels in the west.\n\nAs media celebrities with strong anti-Nazi credentials, and in good standing with the East German authorities, Gustav and Inge von Wangenheim led a privileged existence. More than one commentator described them as \"Communist nobility\". The following list of Inge von Wangenheim's awards is not exhaustive:\n\n\nOn 9 December 2010 a Literary Institute was founded at Rudolstadt, where she had once lived, and named after her. The Institute has as its principal objectives:\n<br> (1) the regular award of a literary contribution to Humanism and Peace, \n<br> (2) to bring together the life's works of authors whose books were banned during the Nazi years, and make these available and \n<br> (3) to train and publish young authors.\n"}
{"id": "1313726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1313726", "title": "Italian Wikipedia", "text": "Italian Wikipedia\n\nThe Italian Wikipedia () is the Italian-language edition of Wikipedia. This edition was created on May 11, 2001 and first edited on June 11, 2001. As of 03 2018 it has articles and more than registered accounts. It is the 8th-largest Wikipedia by the number of articles (after the English, Swedish, German, Dutch, French, Cebuano, and Russian editions).\n\nAs early as March 2001, Jimmy Wales, the creator and co-founder of the original English language Wikipedia, had proposed the creation of parallel Wikipedia projects in other languages. The Italian language version was among the first ones to be created, in May 2001. The original URL was italian.wikipedia.com, while the standardized ISO 639 address it.wikipedia.com became active a few days later. Afterwards, Wikipedia sites switched their domains from wikipedia.com to wikipedia.org. The very first pages (circa five hundred) were simply untranslated copies from the English-language Wikipedia; the first edits were made from 11 June 2001 onwards.\n\nOne of the earlier edits was an appeal to help Nupedia; the first entries on the Italian Wikipedia were the pages on Dante Alighieri, Petrarch, Manzoni, and other Italian writers. The edits were not numerous, and the priority was initially given to helping Nupedia; the lemmas were just twenty or thirty, and there were about ten users. With the end of the Nupedia project, the situation began to improve for the Italian Wikipedia: users started to sign in, and the functions of and were implemented. This happened by 2004; the number of articles was now 56,000.\n\nIn August 2005 the Italian Wikipedia overtook the Spanish and Portuguese language editions, becoming the 8th largest edition by article count. The primary reason for the rapid leap from 56,000 to 64,000 articles was an automated bot which created stub articles on more than 8,000 municipalities of Spain in an operation dubbed \"Comuni spagnoli\".\n\nOn September 8, 2005, the Italian Wikipedia overtook the Dutch Wikipedia and one day later, on September 9, it passed 100,000 articles. On September 11, it overtook the Swedish Wikipedia, becoming the fifth-largest language edition. Again, automated scripts contributed heavily to the growth. For instance, a bot created more than 35,000 articles on municipalities of France. However, it was overtaken by the Polish edition on September 23, 2005.\n\nIn June 2006, Italian Wikipedia users independently created the (with \"Bio\" being a diminutive of \"biografia\", \"biography\"). On 23 October, the Polish version surpassed the Italian Wikipedia by number of articles. As of 16 October 2006, the registered number of users was 100,000 (90 of which were administrators).\n\nIn 2007, the Italian Wikipedia adopted an \"Exemption Doctrin Policy\", shared with other Wikipedias. In the same year, on 21 May, there were more than 300,000 entries. On 22 January 2008, the entries were 400,000; on 3 October, they were 500,000. The number of users had reached 250,000.\n\nIn 2009 the Italian Wikipedia was awarded the Premiolino, the oldest and most prestigious Italian journalism prize, in the new media category.\n\nOn June 22, 2010, it passed 700,000 articles ( – 700,000th article). On September 28, 2010, the Italian Wikipedia overtook the Polish Wikipedia, becoming the 4th largest edition, though in October 2010 the numbers on both Wikipedias were very close, and as of 2011 the Polish Wikipedia was in the lead again.\nOn May 12, 2011, it passed 800,000 articles. On the same day, it overtook the Polish Wikipedia. On March 12, 2012, it passed 900,000 articles. On January 22, 2013, it passed 1,000,000 articles.\n\nIn April 2016, the project had 2233 active editors who made at least five edits in that month.\n\nFrom October 4 to October 6, 2011, following a decision adopted by volunteers of the Italian Wikipedia community, a knowledge blackout was in place. During this time, all of the site's articles were hidden and the website was blocked by its administrators, as a protest against the \"DDL intercettazioni\" (Wiretapping Bill) which was being debated at the time in the Chamber of Deputies of the Italian parliament.\n\nThe controversy largely centered on paragraph 29 of the proposed bill. According to a public statement by editors of the Italian Wikipedia:\n\nThe bill allowed for a fine of between €9,500 and €12,000.\n\nThis was the first time that a Wikipedia had blanked all its content to protest. The Wikimedia Foundation officially supported the decision of the Italian Wikipedia by a statement released the same day. the manifesto, which replaced the Italian Wikipedia, had been viewed approximately 8 million times. On October 6, 2011, the website content was restored, with a banner across the top of each page explaining the reason for the protest.\nOn 18 January 2012, the English Wikipedia was shut down for 24 hours, following a decision by contributors to protest against two bills being examined by the Congress of the United States: the Stop Online Piracy Act and the Protect Intellectual Property Act. On that day, the Italian Wikipedia redirected users from its own main page to a black page expressing a message of support to the decision of the English encyclopedia. Users could then click to access the Italian encyclopedia's content normally.\n\nOn 10 July 2012, when the Russian Wikipedia was closed to protest State Duma’s debating of amendments to the law \"On information\" (Law Project No. 89417-6), the Italian Wikipedia displayed a site-wide banner supporting the protest.\nIn November 2012, messages appeared on the Italian Wikipedia protesting the Italian Senate's Bill #3491, 3204, 3.400 and especially 3.207.\n\nFrom 3 July to 5 July 2018, to protest the Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market, the Italian Wikipedia displayed a site-wide banner supporting the protest, and disabled all searches and contributions.\n\n"}
{"id": "4624169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4624169", "title": "Jarrakan languages", "text": "Jarrakan languages\n\nThe Jarrakan (formerly Djeragan) languages are a small family of Australian Aboriginal languages spoken in northern Australia. The name is derived from the word \"jarrak\", which means \"language\" in Kija.\n\nThe three main Jarrakan languages are:\nThese are divided into two groups: Kijic, consisting of only Kija, and Miriwoongic, consisting of Miriwoong and Gajirrabeng; Dixon (2002) considers the latter to be a single language.\n\nDoolboong may also have been a Jarrakan language, but this uncertain as it is extinct and essentially unattested.\n"}
{"id": "33887652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33887652", "title": "Jeddo, Japan", "text": "Jeddo, Japan\n\nJeddo and Yedo or Yeddo are anglicisations referring to the town and port of Edo, Japan and the adjacent large bay, and generally to the ruling shogunate of Japan during the 1850s and 1860s, which was based in Edo. After 1868, Edo was renamed as Tokyo. The names Jeddo and Yedo became commonly used by English-speaking people in the mid-1800s, following the expedition of Commodore Matthew Perry, which resulted in the opening of Japan to trade. Neither name is in common use today, as a name of reference for Edo, or the bay, or the Tokugawa shogunate associated with Edo. Following the Perry Expedition, there was an increase in popular interest in Japan, and a number of American communities were named Jeddo or Yeddo.\n\nJeddo and Yedo are called anglicizations, because they are a rendering into the English language of the verbal sound of the name of the town of Edo, Japan. Edo was the site of Edo Castle, which was the base for the Tokugawa shogunate (also known as the Tokugawa bakufu and the Edo bakufu), a feudal regime that ruled Japan from 1603 to 1868, in the name of the Japanese emperor who resided in Kyoto castle. In 1868, the shogunate was abolished during the Meiji Restoration, after which the name of Edo was changed to Tokyo.\n\nWhen visited by Commodore Matthew Perry, Edo (literally meaning \"bay-entrance\" or \"estuary\") had grown to a sophisticated urban city of roughly one million people, and was a busy port at the upper end of Edo bay. This large bay was the venue for Perry's early contact and later negotiations with the Japanese Tokugawa shogunate based at Edo in 1852, 1853, and 1854, which resulted in treaties in 1856 opening Japan to trade with the United States and other countries. Perry published a three-volume account of the expedition in 1856, entitled \"Narrative of the Expedition of an American Squadron to the China Seas and Japan\". In that text, Commodore Perry referred to the port of Edo, as well as Edo Bay, using the romanized name of \"Yedo\". Later Books about Pery's expedition used both Yedo and Jeddo for Edo.\n\nReferences to Jeddo by English speakers increasingly appear during and after the 1850s, continuing for several decades, followed by a slow reduction of usage after the transfer of power in Japan in 1868 resulted in the change of name from Edo to Tokyo. The reference to Jeddo is thus most commonly found in English publications after the mid-1850s. An article dated March 15, 1856 refers to an earthquake in Jeddo, Japan. Another \"New York Times\" article from 1861 refers to Edo as Jeddo, in an article about ministers of European powers fleeing Edo after violence there. Books on travel to Japan in the 1850s and 1860s refer to Jeddo as the capital of Japan.\n\nToday the use of the words \"Jeddo\" and \"Yedo\" or \"Yeddo\" is very rare among English speakers or in print.\n\nThe visits by Perry to Japan, as described in his three-volume account, resulted in an increase in popular interest in America about Japan. Japan's previous isolation, the new opportunities for profitable trade, and the revelations of the sophistication of the Japanese in arts, aesthetics and manner resulted in a growth of appreciation of Japanese culture in Europe and the United States known as Japonism. This increase in interest was reflected in naming in America of new places with the names of \"Jeddo\" or \"Yeddo\". Preference of Americans for \"Jeddo\" over \"Yedo\" (or \"Yeddo\") may be inferred from the fact that ten places in the United States bear the name \"Jeddo\", but only one town bears a variant of the name of \"Yedo\",\n\nThere are ten places named Jeddo, or a variant, in the United States. These are:\n\nThere is one town using a variant of Yedo as a place name:\n\n"}
{"id": "23762345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23762345", "title": "Jordi de Manuel", "text": "Jordi de Manuel\n\nJordi de Manuel i Barrabín (Barcelona, 1962) teaches Natural Sciences and is also a writer who combines literature with teaching and research. He is a member of the SCCFF (Catalan Society of Fantasy and Science Fiction).\n\nHe has published stories and novels for children and adolescents, among them, \"El pes de la por\" (The Weight of Fear, 1998, with Sílvia Vega), \"El somni de la nena bruna\" (The Brown Girl’s Dream), which was awarded the City of Eivissa Prize for Children’s Literature in 2000, \"De tots colors\" (Of All Colours, 2001), \"Els ulls d’Abdeslam\" (Abdeslam’s Eyes, 2001), \"Set de llops\" (Seven Wolf Stories, 2003), and \"El beuratge\" (The Potion, 2003).\n\nHe has also written novels and stories for adults, including \"Tres somnis blaus\" (Three Blue Dreams), which received the 2000 Valldaura Prize, \"Cels taronges\" (Orange Skies) which was awarded the Ciutat de Mollerussa Prize in 2001, \"Cabells porpres\" (Purple Hair), winner of the 2002 Pere Calders Prize for Catalan Literature, \"Pantera negra\" (Black Panther), winner of the 2004 Sant Just Desvern Fiction Prize for Prose under the pseudonym Joan Gols, and \"Calcs\" (Borrowings), winner of the 2005 Manuel de Pedrolo Science Fiction Prize. His collection of stories entitled \"Disseccions\" (Dissections, 2001), was awarded the Odissea Readers’ Prize, the only literary award with a jury consisting of one hundred readers.\n\nHe has also published a number of research articles on biology, along with numerous papers on innovation and teaching in the Natural Sciences. He has participated in teams that have been awarded, for their contributions to Science teaching, the 1992 Barcanova Prize for Innovation in Teaching, the 1996 Enciclopèdia Catalana Prize for Research and Innovation in Teaching and the 1998 Eudald Maideu Prize. He is a member of AELC (Association of Catalan Language Writers).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24289181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24289181", "title": "Karin Gayer", "text": "Karin Gayer\n\nKarin Gayer (born 1969 in Mödling near Vienna) is an Austrian writer. She published poetry and narrative fiction.\n\nKarin Gayer was born in May 1969 in Mödling while she is living today in Vienna. She began to study psychology but interrupted and ended her studies because she \"could not find what she was searching for″. Then she worked in various social professions. Karin Gayer began to write literature at school. In the beginning she only published in Austrian literary magazines, for example in \"Zenit\" and \"Wienzeile\". Her first book made its appearance in 2002 and was published by Arovell Verlag.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13022749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13022749", "title": "Languages of North America", "text": "Languages of North America\n\nThe languages of North America reflect not only that continent's indigenous peoples, but the European colonization as well. The most widely spoken languages in North America (which includes Central America and the Caribbean islands) are English, Spanish, and to a lesser extent French, and, especially in the Caribbean, creole languages lexified by them.\n\nNorth America is home to a large number of language families and some language isolates. In the Arctic north, the Eskimo–Aleut languages are spoken from Alaska to Greenland. This group includes the Aleut language of the Aleutian Islands, the Yupik languages of Alaska and the Russian Far East, and the Inuit languages of Alaska, Yukon, the Northwest Territories, Nunavut, and Greenland.\n\nThe Na-Dené languages, of which the most numerous and widespread are the Athabaskan languages, include the languages of central and eastern Alaska and northwestern Canada, as well as the Apachean languages of the Southwestern United States. The Algic languages, including the large Algonquian branch, are widespread across Canada and the United States; they include Cree, Anishinaabe (Ojibwe), Mi'kmaq, and Blackfoot. The Iroquoian languages dominate the area around the Saint Lawrence River and the eastern Great Lakes, but also include Cherokee. The Siouan–Catawban languages, including Crow and Sioux, dominate the Great Plains. A large number of small language families are spoken in the Pacific Northwest from British Columbia to California.\n\nThe Uto-Aztecan languages are found throughout the Western United States, northern and central Mexico, and as far south as El Salvador; they include Hopi, O'odham, and Nahuatl (descended from Aztec). Other large families in Mexico include the Mayan languages (also spoken in Belize and Guatemala), the Mixe–Zoque languages, and the Oto-Manguean languages. In the Caribbean, the Arawakan languages were formerly widespread, but are now limited to Garifuna on the Central American mainland; the family is still well represented in South America, however. The Chibchan languages are spoken in Costa Rica and Panama as well as South America.\n\nThe most widely spoken languages in North America are English, Spanish and French, a legacy of colonization of much of the continent by settlers from Europe.\n\nEnglish is the predominant language of Canada, the United States, Bermuda, and the Cayman Islands, and is spoken alongside English-based creole languages in Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Grenada, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, the Turks and Caicos Islands, and the Virgin Islands. It is also the official language of Dominica and Saint Lucia, where the French-based Antillean Creole is also widely spoken.\n\nSpanish is the dominant language in Mexico and all of Central America apart from Belize, as well as Cuba, the Dominican Republic, and Puerto Rico (where English is spoken as well); it is also widely spoken in the United States.\n\nFrench is the dominant language in Quebec and Saint Pierre and Miquelon, and is spoken in Manitoba, Prince Edward Island, Ontario, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, and Louisiana. It is spoken alongside French-based creole languages in Saint Lucia, Dominica, Guadeloupe, Haiti, Martinique, Saint Barthélemy, and the French side of Saint Martin. French is one of the two official and national languages of Canada.\n\nRussian was once widely spoken in Alaska as it was the language of administration, commerce, and the settlers there that often intermarried with the locals (they numbered no more than a thousand), creating a sizable biracial population. The language began to decline after the United States purchased the land from the Russian Empire. Nonetheless, the language, called \"Old Russian\" by its speakers, is still spoken today in parts of Alaska like Ninilchik and Kodiak by descendants of Russian colonists and Russified Alaskan Natives and is known for its archaic Russian vocabulary and indigenous influences, though the vast majority of speakers are elderly, so that this unique Russian dialect is heavily endangered. In addition, a Russian creole/mixed language known as Medny Aleut language was once spoken in some of the Aleutian Islands. Only a few elderly people still speak it. There has also been sizable recent immigration from Russia in the past few decades, leading to a new generation of Russian-speaking Alaskans.\n\nThough no German state played a major role in the European colonization of the Americas, German people did found their own colonies. Pennsylvania German, Hutterite German, Texas German, all of which developed in North America, as well as Plautdietsch are spoken by descendants of these settlers in the United States, Canada, and Mexico.\n\nOther introduced languages include Danish in Greenland, where it is spoken by nearly everyone (mostly as a second language) due to centuries of colonization by Denmark. Danish was once the language of administration of the US Virgin Islands before the purchase by the United States. Dutch in Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, where it is spoken alongside the Portuguese Creole language in Papiamento. In modern times North America has immigrant speakers of a large number of languages from around the world. For details see Languages of Canada, Languages of the United States, and Languages of Mexico. Some historic languages include Gholan Language and Quechua.\n\nCaribbean Hindustani is spoken by Indo-Caribbeans in islands in the Caribbean like Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, Jamaica, and Suriname where a majority of the Indians are North Indian. Tamil and Telegu are spoken as the lingua franca of Indians in islands like Martinique and Guadeloupe, where the majority of Indians are Dravidians (South Indians). Bengali, Kashmiri, Gujarati, Konkani, Marathi, Punjabi, Sindhi, Malayalam, Kannada, and other Indian languages are also spoken. Indians were brought to the Caribbean from South Asia during the mid 19th century to the early 20th century to work on the sugar cane, cocoa bean, rice, and coffee bean plantations after slavery was abolished. Recent immigration from India to Canada and the United States has increased the prevalence of Indian languages in those countries, with Punjabi being the third most-spoken language in Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "769881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=769881", "title": "List of indigenous languages in Argentina", "text": "List of indigenous languages in Argentina\n\nThis is a list of Indigenous languages that are or were spoken in the present territory of Argentina.\n\nAlthough the official language of Argentina is Spanish, several Indigenous languages are in use. Most are spoken only within their respective indigenous communities, some with very few remaining speakers. Others, especially Aymara, Quechua (South Bolivian Quechua and Santiago del Estero Quichua), Toba (Qom) and Guaraní (Western Argentine Guaraní, Paraguayan Guaraní, Mbyá Guaraní), are alive and in common use in specific regions. Finally, some such as Abipón and Yaghan, are now completely extinct. Since 2004 the Guaraní language is official, together with Spanish, in the northeastern Corrientes Province.\n\n[+] Dubious. Fabre states (with convincing arguments) that no Kaiwá live in Argentina.\n[*] Some authors give this languages as extinct.\n(?) Tentative classification\n\n\n\nA large number of languages once spoken in Argentina have disappeared. According to Censabella (1999), two thirds of the languages spoken when the Spaniards arrived became extinct. In some cases, the languages disappeared along with the ethnic groups that spoke them; in other, the acculturation and transculturation phenomena associated with deep changes in the living conditions of the indigenous peoples caused the extinction, even if a number of individuals of the ethnical group still survive.\n\n\nOther extinct languages are known just by the ethnic group that spoke them, since very scarce (if any) linguistic material remains. Among them: Omaguaca; Sanavirón; several languages probably belonging to the Guaycurú family but known by their Guaraní ethnonyms as Mbayá, Payaguá, Minuané, Mbeguá, Timbú, Corondá, Quiloazá and Colastiné; and others related to the Chon stock, as Manek'enk and Teushen.\n\n"}
{"id": "10308806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10308806", "title": "Marcy Dermansky", "text": "Marcy Dermansky\n\nMarcy Dermansky (born June 9, 1969 in New Jersey) is an American author and editor. Her debut novel \"Twins\" was published in 2005 by William Morrow. \"Bad Marie\", her second novel, was published in 2010 by Harper Perennial. Her third novel \"The Red Car\" was published by Liveright in 2016. The book was named a Best Book of the Year by Buzzfeed, The San Francisco Chronicle, Flavorwire, and The Huffington Post. It was a New York Times Editors Choice Pick.\n\nDermansky received fellowships from MacDowell and the Edward Albee Ranch. She is the winner of the 2002 Smallmouth Press Andre Dubus Novella Award, and the 1999 Story Magazine Carson McCullers short story prize. Her stories have been published in numerous literary journals, including McSweeneys, The Alaska Quarterly Review, and The Indiana Review, and included in the anthology \"Goodybye to All That: Writers On Loving And Leaving New York\" and \"Love Stories: A Literary Companion to Tennis.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "352635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=352635", "title": "Matheme", "text": "Matheme\n\nThe matheme (from \"lesson\") is a concept introduced in the work of the 20th century French psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan. The term matheme 'occurred for the first time in the lecture Lacan delivered on November 4, 1971...Between 1972 and 1973 he gave several definitions of it, passing from the use of the singular to the use of the plural and back again'.\n\n'Lacan saw his \"matheme\" as something that would ensure the integral transmission of his teachings...proof against the \"noise\" or interference inherent in any process of communication'.\n\nThey are formulae, designed as symbolic representations of his ideas and analyses. They were intended to introduce some degree of technical rigour in philosophical and psychological writing, replacing the often hard-to-understand verbal descriptions with formulae resembling those used in the hard sciences, and as an easy way to hold, remember, and rehearse some of the core ideas of both Freud and Lacan. For example: \"$<>a\" is the matheme for fantasy in the Lacanian sense, in which \"$\" refers to the subject as split into conscious and unconscious (hence the matheme is a barred S), \"a\" stands for the object-cause of desire, and \"<>\" stands for the relationship between the two.\n\nA more complex set of mathemes are Lacan's 'formulae of sexuation,' which he popularized in the March 13, 1973 session of his \"Seminar XX\". Composed of two pairs of propositions written in a unique logico-mathematical shorthand inspired by Gottlob Frege, one pair was dubbed 'masculine' and the other 'feminine.' These formulae Lacan originally constructed from Aristotelian logic over the course of an entire year of study.\n\n\"Matheme\", for Lacan, was not simply the imitation of science by philosophy, but the ideal of a perfect means for the integral transmission of knowledge. Natural language, with its constant \"metonymic slide\", fails here, where mathematics succeeds. Contemporary philosopher Alain Badiou identifies \"matheme\" with the scientific procedure.\n\nThough sometimes disparaged as a case of \"physics envy\" or accused of introducing false rigor into a discipline that is more literary theory than hard science, there is also something of a sense of humor in Lacan's formulas: of one 'sigla which I have introduced in the form of an algorithm', Lacan himself has declared that 'it is created to allow for a hundred and one different readings, a multiplicity that is admissible as long as the spoken remains caught in its algebra'.\n\nSerge Leclaire, who is one of the most respected and distinguished of all French analysts, remarked in 1975, for example, that whilst the mathemes might have a certain pedagogic utility, they were basically no more than \"graffiti\"'.\n\n"}
{"id": "33974889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33974889", "title": "N. N. Kakkad", "text": "N. N. Kakkad\n\nNarayanan Nambuthiri Kakkad (; 14 July 1927 – 6 January 1987), commonly known as N.N.Kakkad, was an Indian poet of the Malayalam language. He was a Sanskrit scholar and a broadcaster.\n\nKakkad was born on 14 July 1927 at Avitanallur in Kozhikode district, Kerala, in an orthodox Brahmin family. His father was Kakkad Valiya Narayanan Namboothiri and mother Devaki Antharjanam. After learning Sanskrit in the traditional way he had his schooling at Samorin's High School, Kozhikode and college studies at Sree Kerala Varma College, Thrissur. He started his career as a school teacher and later joined the All India Radio, from which he retired as a producer.\n\nHe died of cancer on 6 January 1987, aged 59.\n\nHe started writing poetry during his school days. He wrote his first published work \"Salabha Geetham\" in the year 1957. Like many of his contemporaries he started under the spell of the romantic school but later there was a radical shift in his style which aimed at a depiction of the complexities of the modern urbanised psyche.\n\nN.N.Kakkad is considered by some critics to be a pioneer of avant-garde poetry in Malayalam. He won the Kerala Sahitya Akademi Award and Vayalar Award in 1986 for his collection \"Saphalamee Yathra\". Other major awards presented to him include the Aashan Price, the Odakuzhal Award, and the Cherukad Award. His works \"Nadanchinthukal\" and \"Pakalaruthikku Munpu\" were published after his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "35249135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35249135", "title": "Nanti language", "text": "Nanti language\n\nPucapucari, or Nanti, is an Arawakan language spoken by approximately 250 people in southeastern Peruvian Amazonia, principally in a number of small communities located near the headwaters of the Camisea and Timpía Rivers. It belongs to the Kampan branch of the Arawak family, and is most closely related to Matsigenka, with which it is partially mutually intelligible.,\n\nThe language is also sometimes called Kogapakori (variants: Cogapacori, Kugapakori), a pejorative term of Matsigenka origin meaning 'violent person'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44540809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44540809", "title": "One Voice Technologies", "text": "One Voice Technologies\n\nOne Voice Technologies was an Artificial Intelligence (AI) based Natural Language Processing (NLP) company founded in 1998 and based in San Diego, CA. One Voice was the developer of IVAN (Intelligent Voice Animated Navigator), an intelligent personal assistant, which commercially launched in 1999 (see Forbes article November, 1999). Some of the customers for One Voice Technologies are Telefonos de Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V. (TELMEX), Intel Corporation, the Government of India, Fry's Electronics, Inland Cellular, and Nex-Tec Wireless.\n\nOne Voice launched several intelligent voice based solutions for the PC, telecom, embedded and home control sectors. One Voice's patent portfolio for natural language processing has been referenced by Google, Microsoft and IBM among others. In 2010, One Voice's patent portfolio was acquired by Apple, Inc.\n\nOne Voice is credited for launching the software industry's first Intelligent Personal Assistant (IPA) in 1999 when they officially released IVAN. IVAN was an AI based personal assistant that allowed users to use conversational voice to find information on the Internet, including weather, news, sports scores, financial information and to purchase items from online retailers. IVAN was the predecessor to several of today's IPA's, including Siri, Amazon Echo, Google Now and Cortana. One Voice's patent portfolio, which powered IVAN, was acquired by Apple in 2010, prior to Apple's launch of Siri and is referenced in patents ranging from Google, Microsoft, IBM, Nuance and Stanford University.\n\nIn November 1999, One Voice launched IVAN at Startup Alley in COMDEX/99.\n\n\"Imagine the possibilities of taking visual Web content and creating a talking, interactive experience for millions of Internet users worldwide. The possibilities for enhancing e-commerce and the Web experience are tremendous,\" explained Dean Weber, One Voice's chairman and chief executive officer, at the company's booth at the opening of COMDEX/Fall 99. \"IVAN and VoiceSite will humanize the entire computer and Internet experience.\" - November 15, 1999.\n\nOne Voice was an early pioneer in the field of Voice Commerce launching services with major online retail brands, including Autobytel.com, FTD.com and Monster.com Utilizing One Voice's platform, retailers can create dynamic voice conversations with users to help find products easier with conversational voice input. By browsing to a site, users can engage in a voice conversation and ask questions, such as, \"I want to order flowers for Mother's Day\" or \"I'm looking to buy a used Mustang convertible\".\n\nOne Voice launched Voicesite, it's Voice Commerce platform in 2001.\n\nIn 2002, One Voice was selected by Warner Home Video to create the movie industry's first voice interactive DVD special features for worldwide distribution on all Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. Subsequently, in\n\n\"One Voice is a groundbreaking technology that gives viewers the chance to have an interactive experience with Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone,\" said Thomas F. Lesinski, Warner Bros. Home Video Executive Vice President and General Manager, United States. \"This outstanding special feature - in which viewers can use their own voices to navigate through the DVD-ROM activities - is truly representative of the unparalleled home video experience that is DVD.\" - April 1, 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "340982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340982", "title": "Petrology", "text": "Petrology\n\nPetrology (from the Greek πέτρος, \"pétros\", \"rock\" and λόγος, \"lógos\", \"subject matter\", see -logy) is the branch of geology that studies rocks and the conditions under which they form. Petrology has three subdivisions: igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary petrology. Igneous and metamorphic petrology are commonly taught together because they both contain heavy use of chemistry, chemical methods, and phase diagrams. Sedimentary petrology is, on the other hand, commonly taught together with stratigraphy because it deals with the processes that form sedimentary rock. \n\nLithology was once approximately synonymous with petrography, but in current usage, lithology focuses on macroscopic hand-sample or outcrop-scale description of rocks while petrography is the speciality that deals with microscopic details.\n\nIn the petroleum industry, lithology, or more specifically mud logging, is the graphic representation of geological formations being drilled through, and drawn on a log called a mud log. As the cuttings are circulated out of the borehole they are sampled, examined (typically under a 10× microscope) and tested chemically when needed.\n\nPetrology utilizes the fields of mineralogy, petrography, optical mineralogy, and chemical analysis to describe the composition and texture of rocks. Petrologists also include the principles of geochemistry and geophysics through the study of geochemical trends and cycles and the use of thermodynamic data and experiments in order to better understand the origins of rocks. \n\nThere are three branches of petrology, corresponding to the three types of rocks: igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary, and another dealing with experimental techniques:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52541026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52541026", "title": "Prince of Darkness (Satan)", "text": "Prince of Darkness (Satan)\n\nThe Prince of Darkness is a term used in John Milton's poem \"Paradise Lost\" referring to Satan as the embodiment of evil. It is an English translation of the Latin phrase \"princeps tenebrarum\", which occurs in the \"Acts of Pilate\", written in the fourth century, in the 11th-century hymn \"Rhythmus de die mortis\" by Pietro Damiani, and in a sermon by Bernard of Clairvaux from the 12th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "25764179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25764179", "title": "Roscinda Nolasquez", "text": "Roscinda Nolasquez\n\nRoscinda Nolasquez (1892 – February 4, 1987) was a Cupeño, and the last speaker of the Cupeño language of Southern California. She grew up speaking Cupeño and did not speak English until her early teens. In 1903, the Cupeño people had to relocate to the Pala Indian Reservation where Nolasquez lived much of rest of her life. In the early 1960s, she continued to speak Cupeño with several elderly residents in Pala.\n\nNolasquez made a serious effort late in her life to help document and preserve the Cupeño language, working among others with linguists Jane Hill and Roderick Jacobs. Together with Hill she edited a collection of bilingual Cupeño-English oral histories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2832732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2832732", "title": "Setback (land use)", "text": "Setback (land use)\n\nIn land use, a setback is the minimum distance which a building or other structure must be set back from a street or road, a river or other stream, a shore or flood plain, or any other place which is deemed to need protection. Depending on the jurisdiction, other things like fences, landscaping, septic tanks, and various potential hazards or nuisances might be regulated and prohibited by setback lines. Setbacks along state, provincial, or federal highways may also be set in the laws of the state or province, or the federal government. Local governments create setbacks through ordinances, zoning restrictions, and Building Codes, usually for reasons of public policy such as safety, privacy, and environmental protection. Neighborhood developers may create setback lines (usually defined in Covenants & Restrictions, and set forth in official neighborhood maps) to ensure uniform appearance in the neighborhood and prevent houses from crowding adjacent structures or streets. In some cases, building ahead of a setback line may be permitted through special approval.\n\nHomes usually have a setback from the property boundary, so that they cannot be placed close together. Setbacks may also allow for public utilities to access the buildings, and for access to utility meters. In some municipalities, setbacks are based on street right-of-ways, and not the front property line. Nonetheless, many of the world's cities, such as those built in the US before 1916 and the beginnings of zoning in the United States, do not employ setbacks. Zoning –and laws pertaining to site development, such as setbacks for front lawns– has been criticized recently by urban planners (most notably Jane Jacobs) for the role that these laws have played in producing urban sprawl and automobile-dependent, low-density cities.\n\nOlder houses have smaller setbacks between properties, as walking was a primary mode of transportation and the distance people walked to actual destinations and, eventually, streetcar stops had to be kept short out of necessity. Distances of one to five feet at most are common in neighborhoods built in the United States before 1890, when the electric streetcar first became popular. Most suburbs laid out before 1920 have narrow lots and setbacks of five to fifteen feet between houses. As automobile ownership became common, setbacks increased further because zoning laws required developers to leave large spaces between the house and street. Recently, in some areas of the United States, setback requirements have been lowered so as to permit new homes and other structures to be closer to the street, one facet of the low impact development urban design movement. This permits a more usable rear yard and limits new impervious surface areas for the purposes of stormwater infiltration.\n\nMailboxes, on the other hand, often have a \"maximum\" setback instead of a minimum one. A postal administration or postmaster may mandate that if a mailbox on a street is too far from the curb for the letter carrier to insert mail, without having to get out of the vehicle, the mail may not be delivered to that address at all until the situation is corrected.\n\nBritish Columbia uses a minimum setback of 4.5 metres (14.764 feet) of any building, mobile home, retaining wall, or other structure from all highway rights-of-way under Ministry jurisdiction unless the building has access from another street, in which case the allowed setback is 3 metres (9.843 feet).\n"}
{"id": "549239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=549239", "title": "Sheng slang", "text": "Sheng slang\n\nSheng is a Swahili and English-based cant, perhaps a mixed language or creole, originating among the urban underclass of Nairobi, Kenya, and influenced by many of the languages spoken there. While primarily a language of urban youths, it has spread across social classes and geographically to neighbouring Tanzania and Uganda.\n\nA word \"Sheng\" is coined from the two languages that it is mainly derived from: Swahili and English. The \"h\" was included from the middle of \"Swahili because \"Seng\" would have sounded unusual.\n\nOriginating in the early 1950s in the Eastlands area of Nairobi (variously described as a \"slum\", \"ghetto\" or \"suburb\"), Sheng is now heard among matatu drivers/touts across the region, and in the popular media. Most of the Sheng words are introduced in various communities and schools and given wide exposure by music artists who include them in their lyrics, hence the rapid growth. It can be assumed to be the first language of many Kenyans in urban areas.\n\nLike all slang, Sheng is mainly used by the youth and is part of popular culture in Kenya. It also evolves rapidly, as words are moved into and out of slang use. It found broad usage among hip hop artists such as Kalamashaka and G.rongi in the African Great Lakes region i the 90s', both mainstream and \"underground\" (whose music helped spread the language and contribute to rapid changes or shifts in Sheng vocabulary), as well as among virtually all university and secondary-school students, the language was not always associated with people who cannot do much for the society until when the Kenya Broadcasting Corporation noted the rise in both class and diversity. Radio presenters John Karani, Jeff Mwangemi and Prince Otach, and many more, took it to the mainstream by presenting the first radio shows using Sheng phrases on the national broadcast. By 2010 almost every effect media show had some sort of sheng it.\n\nAlthough the grammar, syntax, and much of the vocabulary are drawn from Swahili, Sheng borrows from the languages of some of the largest ethnic groups in Kenya, including Luhya, Gĩkũyũ, Luo and Kamba. Words are also borrowed from languages that are neither a local language nor English – such as the Sheng word \"morgen\" \"morning\" – a Sheng word used in some areas with a similar meaning in German.\n\nSheng vocabulary can vary significantly within Kenya's various subdivisions and the larger African Great Lakes region, and even between neighbourhoods in Nairobi. Many youth living in the capital often use the argot as their everyday mode of communication rather than Swahili or English. In other words, Sheng can be considered as the modern day Swahili Language.\n\nThe written use of Sheng in literature is still a minor phenomenon. If some few poems in Kwani? books have been published in sheng, the first and only book in this language is \"Lafudhi hip hop poetry in Sheng\" written by G.rongi, it was published in 2015.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4408817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4408817", "title": "Singapi", "text": "Singapi\n\nSingapi is a term used in Chinni Daandu game, which is popular in southern Parts of India, Karnataka in particular. Players yell out Singapi as a term used for cancellation. When the Chinni is struck with the Daandu, and if the player who hits it is not really sure that the chinni goes to the intended place, or if he misses it, he calls \"Singapi\" \nto cancel the hit and try it again.\n\nThe same would hold good for the opponent, in that, if the opponent calls Singapi before the player, the player would not get a chance to play again.\n"}
{"id": "39083726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39083726", "title": "Smartlogic", "text": "Smartlogic\n\nSmartlogic is a software company which specializes in developing information retrieval, text analytics and knowledge management solutions.\n\nSmartlogic was founded in the United Kingdom in 2006. It is a privately held company and has offices in San Jose, CA; Alexandria, VA; Cambridge, MA and London, UK. The company develops and sells a suite of products; Semaphore Ontology Editor, Classification Server, Advanced Language Packs, Semantic Enhancement Server, Text Miner, Classification Review tool, and Classification Analysis tool. In September 2011, Smartlogic acquired SchemaLogic.\n\nSemaphore Ontology Editor is a web-based tool used to build taxonomies, ontologies, controlled vocabularies as well as other knowledge organization systems. Models are used by organizations to enhance the capabilities of enterprise search engines, content management and workflow systems deployed by clients to augment and enhance their investment.\n\nSemaphore Classification Server uses the model structure from Semaphore Ontology Editor and auto classifies unstructured information assets by applying metadata tags to the unstructured information.\n\nSemaphore integrates with Microsoft Sharepoint, Google Search Appliance, Apache Solr, FAST ESP and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57147588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57147588", "title": "Sortie", "text": "Sortie\n\nA sortie (from the French word meaning \"exit\") is a deployment or dispatch of one military unit, be it an aircraft, ship, or troops, from a strongpoint. The sortie, whether by one or more aircraft or vessels, usually has a specific mission. The sortie rate is the number of sorties that a given unit can support in a given time. The term is an evolution of the concept of \"sortie\" in siege warfare.\n\nIn military aviation, a sortie is a combat mission of an individual aircraft, starting when the aircraft takes off. For example, one mission involving six aircraft would tally six sorties.\n"}
{"id": "7824847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7824847", "title": "Surender Mohan Pathak", "text": "Surender Mohan Pathak\n\nSurender Mohan Pathak (, ) (born 19 February 1940 at Khemkaran, in Tarn Taran district near Amritsar, in the Majha region of Punjab) is an author of Hindi-language crime fiction with nearly 300 novels to his credit. His writing career, along with his full-time job in Indian Telephone Industries, Delhi, began in the early 1960s with his Hindi translations of Ian Fleming’s James Bond novels and the works of James Hadley Chase. He also wrote his own James Bond series.\n\nHis first short story, \"57 saal puraana aadmi\" (५७ साल पुराना आदमी, \"The Man 57 from Years Ago\"), was published in a Hindi magazine \"Manohar Kahaniyaan\" (मनोहर कहानीयां) in 1959. His first full length novel, Purane Gunah Naye Gunahgar (Sunil Series), was published in \"Neelam Jaasoos\" (a Hindi crime fiction magazine) in 1963.\n\nHis major work began with what is called the \"Sunil\" series () which consists of at least 115 novels. Sunil, a debonair and upright investigative journalist for the fictional daily newspaper \"Blast\", lives in the fictional city of Rajnagar, a metropolitan city located on the coastline. Sunil has a quixotic nature when it comes to damsels in distress, which happens only too often. He is a man in his 30s, who is willing to go any lengths in pursuit of justice, mostly with help of his best friend Ramakant Malhotra, a dipsomaniac and owner of a club called Youth Club. His attempts to protect the innocent often result in Sunil ending up on the wrong side of the law, bringing him face to face with Inspector Prabhudayal, the exceptionally strict and incorruptible officer in charge of the homicide division of the Rajnagar Police.\n\nThe \"philosopher\" detective Sudhir Kumar Kohli is the protagonist of Pathak's Sudhir Series, all narrated in the first person. Sudhir is the diametric opposite of Sunil, proudly proclaiming himself \"dilli ka khaas kism ka haraami\" who frequently enlists the help of Inspector Devender Kumar Yadav, who can easily be persuaded to do something dishonest. A recent novel of this (in)famous series has been translated by Giriraj Sharan (uncredited) and published by Diamond Books under the title \"The Last Goal\".\n\nHowever the best-known series of novels of Pathak is \"Vimal\" (विमल), a.k.a. \"Sardar Surender Singh Sohal\" (सरदार सुरेन्द्र सिंह सोहल), a.k.a. another dozen names he uses to camouflage his identity in the Mumbai underworld. Vimal is a Robinhood like character, who is constantly on the run from the law due to circumstances out of his control. He has taken up arms against gangsters like Rajbahadur Bakhia and, after killing him, his next avatar Iqbal Singh and then Vyaas Shankar Gajre. The Sardar has associates like Tukaram and his henchmen, like Wagle and Irfan, etc. \"Vimal\" is not a private detective or police inspector but a criminal wanted in seven states.\n\nIn addition, Pathak has also authored several novels not belonging to any specific series, which are labelled as 'thriller' novels irrespective of their storyline. Many collections of joke books compiled by Pathak have also been published. Several authors have been known to plagiarise or \"borrow\" heavily from his works.\n\n\nTwo books from Pathak's popular Vimal series — \"65 Lakh ki Dakaiti\" and \"Din Dahade Dakaiti\" — were translated into English under the titles \"The 65 Lakh Heist\" and \"Daylight Robbery\" by Sudarshan Purohit, a Bangalore-based software engineer. \"The 65 Lakh Heist\" was published in March 2009 and \"Daylight Robbery\" in January 2010, both by Blaft, a Chennai-based publisher.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "479990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479990", "title": "Two-level grammar", "text": "Two-level grammar\n\nA two-level grammar is a formal grammar that is used to generate another formal grammar , such as one with an infinite rule set . This is how a Van Wijngaarden grammar was used to specify Algol 68 . A context free grammar that defines the rules for a second grammar can yield an effectively infinite set of rules for the derived grammar. This makes such two-level grammars more powerful than a single layer of context free grammar, because generative two-level grammars have actually been shown to be Turing complete.\n\n\"Two-level grammar\" can also refer to a formal grammar for a two-level formal language, which is a formal language specified at two levels, for example, the levels of words and sentences.\n\nA well-known non-context-free language is\nA two-level grammar for this language is the metagrammar\ntogether with grammar schema\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47233751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47233751", "title": "Varieties of American Sign Language", "text": "Varieties of American Sign Language\n\nAmerican Sign Language (ASL) developed in the United States and Canada, but has spread around the world. Local varieties have developed in many countries, but there is little research on which should be considered dialects of ASL (such as Bolivian Sign Language) and which have diverged to the point of being distinct languages (such as Malaysian Sign Language).\n\nThe following are sign language varieties of ASL in countries other than the US and Canada, languages based on ASL with substratum influence from local sign languages, and mixed languages in which ASL is a component. Distinction follow political boundaries, which may not correspond to linguistic boundaries.\n\nBolivian Sign Language (Lenguaje de Señas Bolivianas, LSB) is a dialect of American Sign Language (ASL) used predominantly by the Deaf in Bolivia.\n\nIn 1973, American Sign Language was brought to Bolivia by Eleanor and Lloyd Powlison, missionaries from the United States. An indigenous sign language (or perhaps sign languages) existed before the introduction and adoption of American Sign Language, though it is unknown how widespread or unified it was.\n\nThe first book of LSB was published in 1992, but more than 90% of the signs were from ASL. Due to research work in the 1990s and 2000s a lot of expressions in LSB were collected by Bolivian Deaf, and education materials for learning LSB or teaching in LSB were published. The dependence on words used in ASL was reduced, but the usage of ASL words still is over 70%.\n\nToday LSB is used by more deaf Bolivians than the reported 400 in 1988 in the Ethnologue report, due to the introduction of bilingual education (LSB as primary language and Spanish as secondary language) originally in Riberalta and its adoption to other schools in Bolivia with the support of the Education Ministry of Bolivia and the growing social exchange of the Deaf.\n\nIn 1988, there were a total of 9 deaf institutions in the country and 46,800 deaf Bolivians. In 2002 there were approximately 25 deaf schools.\n\nCosta Rican Sign Language, also known New Costa Rican Sign Language or Modern Costa Rican Sign Language, is the national sign language of Costa Rica's Deaf community. It is used primarily by people born after 1960, and is about 60% cognate with American Sign Language (Woodward 1991, 1992). It is unrelated to two known village sign languages of Costa Rica, Bribri Sign Language and Brunca Sign Language.\n\nDominican Sign Language is a local variant of American Sign Language used in the Dominican Republic. Many deaf Dominicans use home sign, and are not fluent in Dominican Sign Language.\nFrancophone African Sign Language (\"Langue des Signes d'Afrique Francophone\", or LSAF) is the variety, or varieties, of American Sign Language (ASL) used in several francophone countries of Africa. Education for the Deaf in these countries is based on ASL and written French; there is therefore a French influence on the language of the classroom.\n\nWith the exception of Algerian Sign Language, the sign languages of francophone Africa are unrelated to French Sign Language, except indirectly through their derivation from ASL. This is because most schools for the deaf in the region were founded by the American missionary Andrew Foster or by his students, starting in 1974. Chadian Sign Language may be closest to Nigerian Sign Language. (A few countries have languages unrelated to either: Madagascar Sign Language derives from Norwegian SL, and Tunisian Sign Language is apparently a language isolate.)\n\nAs in other African derivations of ASL, the language has been affected by local gestures and conventions. This is especially true of taboo topics such as sex (Dalle 1996).\n\nAs an example of the French influence on francophone ASL, the word for 'she' is made by pointing with at L-shaped hand, rather than with a simple index finger, because the name of the letter el is homonymous with \"elle\" ('she') in French. It is not clear to what extent such influence continues outside the classroom.\n\nFrancophone African countries which use ASL as the language of Deaf instruction are:\n\nGhanaian Sign Language is the national sign language of deaf people in Ghana, descended from American Sign Language. It was introduced in 1957 by Andrew Foster, a deaf African-American missionary, as there had been no education or organizations for the deaf previously. Foster went on to establish the first school for the deaf in Nigeria a few years later, and Nigerian Sign Language shows influence from GSL. GSL is unrelated to indigenous Ghanaian sign languages such as Adamorobe Sign Language and Nanabin Sign Language.\n\nThere are nine schools for the deaf in Ghana.\n\nGreek SL formed in the 1950s when American Sign Language and French Sign Language came together, with admixture from indigenous sign.\n\nIndonesian Sign Language, or Bahasa Isyarat Indonesia (BISINDO), is any of several related deaf sign languages of Indonesia, at least on the island of Java. It is based on American Sign Language (perhaps via Malaysian Sign Language), with local admixture in different cities. Although presented as a coherent language when advocating for recognition by the Indonesian government and use in education, the varieties used in different cities may not be mutually intelligible.\n\nJamaican Sign Language (JSL) is a local variant of American Sign Language used in Jamaica. It is supplanting the indigenous Jamaican Country Sign Language.\n\nMalaysian Sign Language (, or BIM) is the principal language of the deaf community of Malaysia. BIM has many dialects, differing from state to state.\n\nMalaysian Sign Language was born when the Malaysian Federation of the Deaf was established in 1998 and use has expanded among deaf leaders and participants. It is based on American Sign Language (ASL), but the two are considered different languages. BIM in turn has been the basis for Indonesian Sign Language.\n\nMoroccan Sign Language (MSL) is the language of the deaf community of Tetouan and some other cities of Morocco.\n\nMoroccan Sign Language was created by American Peace Corps volunteers in Tetouan c. 1987, from American Sign Language (ASL) and existing signs; there is less than a 50% lexical similarity with ASL. It is not clear if the 'existing signs' were home sign or an established village sign language. The language is used in three programs for the deaf, but not throughout the country: It is not used in the large cities of Rabat, Tangier, or Casa Blanca, for example. In Oujda, near the Algerian border, Algerian Sign Language is used, or at least the local sign language has been strongly influenced by it.\n\nNigerian Sign Language, NSL is the national sign language of deaf people in Nigeria. It was introduced in 1960, a few years after Ghanaian Sign Language, by Andrew Foster, a deaf African-American missionary, and is based on American Sign Language (and indeed may be considered a dialect of ASL), as there had been no education or organizations for the deaf previously. There is a Ghanaian influence in NSL; both are based on American Sign Language. NSL is unrelated to local Nigerian sign languages such as Hausa Sign Language, Yoruba Sign Language, and Bura Sign Language. The Save the Deaf and Endangered Languages Initiative (S-DELI) and Nigerian National Association of the Deaf have worked to document indigenous and national varieties of NSL both for research and reference for the Nigerian deaf population. \n\nChadian and Congolese teachers for the deaf are trained in Nigeria. There are deaf schools in Chad in N’Djamena, Sarh, and Moundou.\n\nPanamanian Sign Language \"(Lengua de señas panameñas,\" LSP) is the deaf sign language of Panama, derived from American Sign Language and influenced by Salvadoran Sign Language.\n\nFSL is believed to be part of the French Sign Language family. It has been strongly influenced by American Sign Language since the establishment in 1907 of the School for the Deaf and Blind (SDB) (now the Philippine School for the Deaf) by Delia Delight Rice (1883-1964), an American Thomasite teacher born to deaf parents. The school was run and managed by American principals until the 1940s. In the 1960s, contact with American Sign Language continued through the launching of the Deaf Evangelistic Alliance Foundation and the Laguna Christian College for the Deaf. Another source of ASL influence was the assignment of volunteers from the United States Peace Corps, who were stationed at various places in the Philippines from 1974 through 1989, as well as religious organizations that promoted ASL and Manually Coded English. Starting in 1982, the International Deaf Education Association (IDEA), led by former Peace Corps volunteer G. Dennis Drake, established a series of residential elementary programs in Bohol using Philippine Sign Language as the primary language of instruction. The Bohol Deaf Academy also primarily emphasizes Philippine Sign Language.\n\nUsage of Filipino Sign Language was reported in 2009 as being used by 54% of sign-language users in the Philippines.\n\nPuerto Rican Sign Language (PRSL) is a variety or descendent of American Sign Language, which was introduced to Puerto Rico in 1907. It is not clear how far PRSL may have diverged from ASL, but \"Ethnologue\" speaks of bilingualism in ASL as well as speakers who know only PRSL.\n\nSierra Leonean Sign Language is a variety or descendent of American Sign Language (ASL) used in schools for the deaf in Sierra Leone, or at least in the capital Freetown. As in much of West Africa, the first schools for the deaf were founded by the American missionary Andrew Foster or his students.\n\nSelangor Sign Language (SSL), also known as Kuala Lumpur Sign Language (KLSL), is a sign language used in Malaysia. It was originally based on American Sign Language (ASL) but has diverged significantly enough to now be considered a language in its own right. Kuala Lumpur was formerly located in the state of Selangor before it became a federal territory in 1974.\n\nLike Penang Sign Language (PSL), it now mainly used by older people, although many younger people can understand it.\n\nThai Sign Language (TSL) or Modern Standard Thai Sign Language (MSTSL), is the national sign language of Thailand's Deaf community and is used in most parts of the country by the 20% of the estimated 56,000 pre-linguistically deaf people who go to school. Thai Sign Language was acknowledged as \"the national language of deaf people in Thailand\" in August 1999, in a resolution signed by the Minister of Education on behalf of the Royal Thai Government. As with many sign languages, the means of transmission to children occurs within families with signing deaf parents and in schools for the deaf. A robust process of language teaching and enculturation among deaf children has been documented and photographed in the Thai residential schools for the deaf.\n\nThai Sign Language is related to American Sign Language, and belongs to the same language family as ASL. This relatedness is due to language contact and creolisation that has occurred between ASL, which was introduced into deaf schools in Thailand in the 1950s by American-trained Thai educators and at least two indigenous sign languages that were in use at the time: Old Bangkok Sign Language and Old Chiangmai Sign Language.\n\n"}
{"id": "35249742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35249742", "title": "Vladimir Arenev", "text": "Vladimir Arenev\n\nVladimir Arenev (, is a pen name of Ukrainian science fiction, fantasy award winning writer, journalist and screenwriter Vladimir Puziy. Writes in Russian and Ukrainian languages, resides in Kiev, Ukraine.\n\nVladimir Konstantinovich Puziy () was born October 1, 1978 in Kiev. In school he was very fond of biology, attended young naturalists group at Kiev Zoo, admired Gerald Durrell and James Herriot, and seriously engaged in keeping exotic amphibians and insects in vivarium at home. In 1995 applied to Biological faculty, but failed. For the next year Arenev worked as a sweeper at Kiev Zoo. In 1996 he successfully applied to Institute of Journalism of Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv. After receiving Master’s Degree with distinction he started teaching the history of literature and numerous students’ courses on writing skills.\n\nFor the time being Arenev has 21 books published in Ukrainian and Russian. His numerous short stories and novellas have been published in Ukrainian, Russian, Polish, Lithuanian, Estonian, French and English (more than 150 publications in periodicals and anthologies). Debuted in fiction in 1998 with science fiction short story \"Guardian Angel\" () published in the first issue \"Maidan XXI\" anthology.\n\nFirst usage of pen-name Vladimir Arenev dates 2000, when he started a series of typical mainstream post-Tolkien fantasy. This period ended at 2005 and after a pause Arenev changed the format, working on fiction with a social narrative since 2008.\nArenev’s short stories and novellas were published at such anthologies as \"Best of the year\" () and \"New Legends\" () at Azbuka Publishing House (), \"SF&Fantasy\" () at AST, \"Fantasy\" () at Eksmo, and in several magazines in Ukraine, Russia, Lithuania, Germany and Poland.\n\nUnder his name Vladimir Puziy is known as awarded literary critic and book reviewer, lecturer at SF&Fantasy conventions on Literary criticism issues. Also works as a freelance journalist for newspapers and magazines in Kiev, Moscow and Saint-Petersburg.\nArenev also participated in editorial process of numerous fiction anthologies. Currently supervises and edits the \"Dark fantasy\" series of ‘Ripol-classic’ () Publishing House, Moscow.\nHe wrote forewords and afterwords to the books of the well-known fantasy writers Maryna and Serhiy Dyachenko, H. L. Oldie, Jacek Piekara, Dmytro Skiriuk.\nTranslated Glen Cook’s \"Tides Elba\" short story and Andrzej Sapkowski’s \"Spanienkreuz\" into Russian (2011). Translation editor of Jacek Dukaj’s short novel \"Serce Mroku\", Jakub Nowak’s short novel () and Jacek Piekara’s novels about published in Russia.\n\nVladimir Arenev was awarded with various literary awards in the science fiction and fantasy in the Commonwealth of Independent States and Europe. Featured awards are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50885252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50885252", "title": "Wasi Ahmed", "text": "Wasi Ahmed\n\nWasi Ahmed () is an acclaimed Bangladeshi novelist and short story writer. His works in original and in translation have been anthologized in Bangladesh, India, Sri Lanka and UK. He has co-authored and edited an anthology of South Asian short stories. Formerly a civil servant and diplomat, he is currently associated with the English daily \"The Financial Express\" as Consulting Editor, and contributes to a number of Bangla and English dailies. Among others, he contributes a weekly post-editorial column for \"The Financial Express\".\n\nHe was born in Sylhet in Bangladesh. He obtained his bachelor's and master's degree in English literature from University of Dhaka. \nHe married Naseha Chawdhury on 5 August 1983.\n\nWriting since Early eighties.\nLanguage: Bengali, English\n\nMajor Field of writing: Short stories, novelsFocus of Writing: One of the key areas that essentially characterises his writings, according to renowned critic Topodhir Bhattacharjee, is his interpretation of the reality of his time, often disguised under the garb of surface reality.\n\nOthers:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
