{"id": "26769724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26769724", "title": "866A", "text": "866A\n\nThe 866 is a mercury vapor half-wave rectifier intended for high-voltage applications. The voltage drop is approximately 15 volts up to 150 Hz. To avoid unwanted shorts the tube must be operated in a vertical position and the filament preheated for at least 30 seconds before applying the plate voltage.\n\nStructurally, it consists of a linear electrode arrangement; a cup shaped anode with top cap and a cylindrical cathode. The socket is a medium 4 pin bayonet UX-4 and the glass envelope is ST-19. The 2.5 volt/ 5 Amp filament is connected to pins 1 and 4.\n\nUnder normal operating conditions the tube glows blue and mercury droplets are visible.\n\n"}
{"id": "32016206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32016206", "title": "Aquillapollenites", "text": "Aquillapollenites\n\nAquillapollenites is an extinct morphogenus of Late Cretaceous pollen grain. North America's northern animal biome approximately correspond with the \"Aquillapollenites\" palynofloral province.\n"}
{"id": "3393911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3393911", "title": "Arcata Wastewater Treatment Plant and Wildlife Sanctuary", "text": "Arcata Wastewater Treatment Plant and Wildlife Sanctuary\n\nArcata Wastewater Treatment Plant and Wildlife Sanctuary is an innovative sewer management system employed by the city of Arcata, California.\n\nA series of oxidation ponds, treatment wetlands and enhancement marshes are used to filter sewage waste. The marshes also serve as a wildlife refuge, and are on the Pacific Flyway. The Arcata Marsh is a popular destination for birders. The marsh has been awarded the Innovations in Government award from the Ford Foundation/Harvard University Kennedy School of Government. Numerous holding pools in the marsh, called \"lakes,\" are named after donors and citizens who helped start the marsh project, including Humboldt State University professors George Allen and Robert A. Gearheart who were instrumental in the creation of the Arcata Marsh. In 1969 Allen also started an aquaculture project at the marsh to raise salmonids in mixtures of sea water and partially treated wastewater. Despite being effectively a sewer, the series of open-air lakes do not smell, and are a popular destination for birdwatching, cycling and jogging.\nThe sewage treatment process takes place in stages:\n\n\nSewage from the City of Arcata is treated and released to Humboldt Bay via complex flow routing through a number of contiguous ponds, wetlands, and marshes. Resemblance of treatment features to natural bay environments may cause potential ambiguity about where wastewater ceases to be considered partially treated sewage and meets enhancement objectives of the California Bays and Estuaries Policy. The wastewater treatment system includes both treatment wetlands and enhancement marshes. Treatment wetlands improve oxidation pond effluent quality to meet the federal definition of secondary treatment. Disinfection and dechlorination is the final step of the wastewater treatment process. Disinfected wastewater may be discharged either to Humboldt Bay or to enhancement marshes. Enhancement marshes purify the wastewater and provide wetland habitat. Enhancement marsh effluent is disinfected to improve coliform index changes from birds using tertiary treatment enhancement marsh habitat. After leaving the treatment wetlands the effluent is mixed with water returning from the enhancement marshes. Wild bird feces contain coliform bacteria similar to those found in human sewage. Recreational access is limited to areas where effluent has received secondary treatment and disinfection.\n\nWetland plants use the energy of sunlight to produce five to ten times as much carbohydrate biomass per acre as a wheat field. Detritus from decomposing wetlands vegetation forms the base of a food chain for aquatic organisms, birds and mammals. Individuals who value wetland environments may not realize the effluent characteristics necessary for release of treated wastewater to Humboldt Bay. Although there is no evidence of harm to wildlife, some regulators suggest potential risk to wildlife using treatment wetlands because of an absence of significant research on wildlife exposure to partially treated effluent and to potential accumulation of chemicals being removed from effluent in wetland treatment processes. Ongoing research at Humboldt State University minimizes potential risk to Humboldt Bay wetlands and wildlife.\n\nThe City of Arcata generates an average volume of of sewage per day. Winter rainfall onto the large surface area of treatment ponds and marshes increases the volume of effluent discharged from the wetland treatment system to as much as per day. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System regulations require monthly average effluent concentrations of biochemical oxygen demand and of total suspended solids to be no greater than 30 mg/L, with an additional requirement for removal of 85 percent of the quantities measured in untreated sewage from the City of Arcata. Unfortunately, when measuring concentrations leaving treatment wetlands, neither of these analytical methods can distinguish between unremoved conventional pollutants originally arriving in sewage, or detritus of decomposing wetland vegetation; so the limitations may apply to the sum of both.\n\nThe Arcata Marsh and Wildlife Sanctuary encompasses 307 acres of land situated along the Pacific Flyway. Over 327 species of birds have been recorded at the sanctuary. Numerous plant, mammal, fish, insect, reptile and amphibian species inhabit the marsh. These include river otters, gray foxes, red-legged frog, tidewater goby, bobcat, striped skunk, praying mantis and red-sided garter snake.\n\nThe Friends of the Arcata Marsh (FOAM) operate the Arcata Marsh Interpretive Center that contains exhibits about the operations of the treatment plant, the importance of the marsh, and about the plants and animals that live there. Volunteer docents give tours of the marsh. Education programs are offered for school, scout and other groups, as well as summer camp programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "36136905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36136905", "title": "Avalon explosion", "text": "Avalon explosion\n\nThe Avalon explosion, named from the Precambrian fauna of the Avalon Peninsula, is a proposed evolutionary radiation in the history of the Animalia, about 575 million years ago, some 33 million years earlier than the Cambrian explosion.\n\nTrace fossils of these Avalon organisms have been found worldwide, and represent the earliest known complex multicellular organisms. The Avalon explosion produced the Ediacaran biota. The biota largely disappeared contemporaneously with the rapid increase in biodiversity known as the Cambrian explosion.\n\nThe Avalon explosion appears similar to the Cambrian explosion in the rapid increase in diversity of morphologies in a relatively small time frame, followed by diversification within the established body plans, a pattern similar to that observed in other evolutionary events.\n\nThe Avalon explosion was proposed in 2008 by Virginia Tech paleontologists through the analysis of the morphological space change in several Ediacaran assemblages. The discovery suggests that in the early evolution of animals, there may have been more than one explosive event. The original analysis has been the subject of dispute in the literature.\n"}
{"id": "38857194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38857194", "title": "CEB VER", "text": "CEB VER\n\nCEB VER is a quality standard for voluntary carbon offset industry created by Commodity Exchange Bratislava. Based on the Kyoto Protocol's Clean Development Mechanism, CEB VER establishes criteria for validating, measuring, and monitoring carbon offset projects with option to trade carbon credits and use them for surrendering for individuals, organizations or companies that want to be carbon neutral.\n\nMethodology express exact calculation on how many carbon credits can be issued for project developers. These carbon credits can be traded at Carbon Place.\nFirst methodology issued under CEB VER standard was CEB VER Solar.\n\n"}
{"id": "46676535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46676535", "title": "Climate inertia", "text": "Climate inertia\n\nClimate inertia describes the widespread inherent characteristic of the climate, ecological, and socio-economic systems. Inertia from anthropogenic impacts may be slow to become apparent, or could be irreversible if climate change crosses associated thresholds. Melting ice sheets in Greenland and Antarctica take time to respond to the emissions of fossil fuel carbon in the climate system. The global warming also causes thermal inertia, thermal expansion of the oceans, which contributes to sea level rise. It has been estimated that we are already committed to a sea-level rise of approximately 2.3 meters for each degree of temperature rise within the next 2,000 years.\n\nThe IPCC synthesis report from 2001 (AR3) states \"\"Inertia\" means a delay, slowness, or resistance in the response of climate, biological, or human systems to factors that alter their rate of change, including continuation of change in the system after the cause of that change has been removed.\"\n\nThe ocean’s thermal inertia delays some global warming for decades or centuries. It is accounted for in global climate models, and has been confirmed via measurements of Earth’s energy balance. Permafrost takes longer to respond to a warming planet because of thermal inertia, due to ice rich materials and permafrost thickness.\n\nThe observed transient climate sensitivity and the equilibrium climate sensitivity are proportional to the thermal inertia time scale. Thus, Earth’s equilibrium climate sensitivity adjusts over time until a new steady state equilibrium has been reached.\n\nEven after emissions are lowered, the melting of ice sheets would continue, and further increase sea-level rise for centuries. Because of slow transport of heat into the oceans and the slow response time of ice sheets until the new system equilibrium has been reached.\n\nDepending on the ecosystem, effects of climate change could show quickly, while others take more time to respond. For instance, coral bleaching can occur in a single warm season, while trees may be able to persist for decades under a changing climate, but be unable to regenerate. Changes in the frequency of extreme weather events could disrupt ecosystems as a consequence, depending on individual response times of species.\n\nThe IPCC concluded, that the inertia and uncertainty of the climate system, ecosystems, and socio-economic systems implies that margins for safety should be considered. Thus, setting strategies, targets, and time tables for avoiding dangerous interference through climate change. Further the IPCC concluded in their 2001 report that the stabilization of atmospheric concentration, temperature, or sea level is affected by:\n\n"}
{"id": "22992249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22992249", "title": "Disjunctive population", "text": "Disjunctive population\n\nA disjunctive population, in ecology, is a colony of plants or animals, whose geographical locus is severed from the continuous range of the bulk of the species distribution. Although a disjunctive population may sometimes occur on an island, which creates physical separation via water, a large percentage of disjunctive populations are separated from their main range simply by landmass. In some cases a disjunctive population represents a relatively small outlier population from the main range, but in other cases, such as for the painted hunting dog, \"Lycaon pictus\", the entire population is scattered (throughout much of Africa) and is intrinsically disjunctive. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "357853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=357853", "title": "Dong Fang Hong I", "text": "Dong Fang Hong I\n\nDongfanghong I () was the first space satellite of the People's Republic of China (PRC), launched successfully on 24 April 1970 as part of the PRC's Dongfanghong space satellite program. At , it was heavier than the first satellites of other countries. The satellite carried a radio transmitter which broadcast the song of the same name, \"Dōngfānghóng\" or \"The East Is Red\"; the broadcast lasted for 20 days while in orbit.\n\nIt was developed under the direction of Qian Xuesen (Tsien Hsue-shen), dean of the Chinese Academy of Space Technology (CAST). At the time, a total of five identical satellites were created. The first satellite launched successfully. The academy formulated a \"Three-Satellite Plan\" consisting of \"Dongfanghong I\", re-entry satellites, and geosynchronous orbit communications satellites. Sun Jia-Dong was responsible for the \"Dongfanghong I\" technology. In 1967, Dang Hongxin chose a copper antenna membrane that resolved the difficulties of broadcasting on an ultra-short wave antenna between 100 °C and −100 °C. Engineers installed a music player playing \"The East is Red\" on the satellite.\n\nWhile \"Dongfanghong I\" was transported to the launch site by train, armed guards were placed between every two electricity poles. On 24 April 1970 at 9:35 pm, a Long March I rocket (CZ-1) lifted off from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center, placing the \"Dongfanghong I\" satellite in orbit at 9:48 pm.\n\nThe primary purpose of the \"Dongfanghong I\" satellite was to perform tests of satellite technology and take readings of the ionosphere and atmosphere.\n\nThe satellite was similar in shape to a symmetrical 72-faced polyhedron, had a mass of 173 kg (381 lb), and had a diameter of approximately one meter (39 in). It spun 120 times per minute for stabilization. The outer surface was coated with a processed aluminum alloy for temperature control. The main body of the sphere had four ultrashortwave whip antennas of at least two meters (6½ ft) in length. The lower section was connected to a stage containing a rocket motor. It had a shiny metallic ring added to the bottom, with brightness magnitude from +5 to +8.\n\nThe satellite remains in orbit; as of it was in an orbit with a perigee of , an apogee of and inclination of  degrees. This near-earth elliptical orbit was 114.09 minutes per orbit. It has Satellite Catalog Number 4382 and International Designator 1970-034A.\n\n\"Dongfanghong I\" had a design life of 20 days. During that time, it transmitted telemetry data and space readings to the Earth. On 14 May, its signal stopped.\n\nWith the successful launch of \"Dongfanghong I\", China became the fifth country after the Soviet Union, United States, France, and Japan to independently launch a satellite. Although \"Dongfanghong I\" was launched 13 years after \"Sputnik I\", its mass exceeded the combined masses of the first satellites of the other four countries. After this launch, Qian Xuesen proposed to the Chinese government that China should develop a manned space program and submitted a manned space undertaking report. Mao Zedong himself signed \"approved\" to the report.\n\nOn 21 April 2005, the Chinese Academy of Space Technology gathered the science and technology personnel who participated in the design, manufacture, production, and supervision of \"Dongfanghong I\". The birthplace of \"Dongfanghong I\", the Beijing Satellite Manufacturing Plant, was used as a monument. The manufacturing plant, in coordination with the Shenzhou 5 manned spacecraft anniversary, created a 1:1 scale replica of the \"Dongfanghong I\" satellite. It was exhibited in the Beijing Planetarium.\n\n"}
{"id": "679587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=679587", "title": "Eastern Hemisphere", "text": "Eastern Hemisphere\n\nThe Eastern Hemisphere is a geographical term for the half of Earth which is east of the prime meridian (which crosses Greenwich, London, UK) and west of the antimeridian (which crosses the Pacific Ocean and relatively little land from pole to pole). It is also used to refer to Afro-Eurasia (Africa and Eurasia) and Australia, in contrast with the Western Hemisphere, which includes mainly North and South America. The Eastern Hemisphere may also be called the \"Oriental Hemisphere\". In addition, it may be used in a cultural or geopolitical sense as a synonym for the \"Old World\".\n\nThe almost perfect circle (the earth is an oblate spheroid that is fatter around the equator), drawn with a line, demarcating the Eastern and Western Hemispheres must be an arbitrarily decided and published convention, unlike the equator (an imaginary line encircling Earth, equidistant from its poles), which divides the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. The prime meridian at 0° longitude and the antimeridian, at 180° longitude, are the conventionally accepted boundaries, since they divide eastern longitudes from western longitudes. This convention was established (predominantly by Europeans and Americans) in 1884 at the International Meridian Conference held in Washington, D.C. where the standard time concepts of Canadian railroad engineer Sir Sandford Fleming were adopted. The Hemispheres agreed do not correspond with exact continents. Portions of Western Europe, West Africa, Oceania, and extreme northeastern Russia are in the Western Hemisphere, divorcing it from the continents which form the touchstone for most geopolitical constructs of \"the East\" and \"the West\".\n\nConsequently, the meridians of 20°W and the diametrically opposed 160°E are often used outside of matters of physics and navigation, which includes all of the European and African mainlands, but also includes a small portion of northeast Greenland (typically reckoned as part of North America) and excludes more of eastern Russia and Oceania (e.g., New Zealand). Prior to the global adoption of standard time, numerous prime meridians were decreed by various countries where time was defined by local noon (thereby, local meridian).\n\nThe center of the Eastern Hemisphere is located in the Indian Ocean at the intersection of the equator and the 90th meridian east, 910 km west of Indonesia in the Ninety East Ridge. The nearest land is Simeulue Island at .\n\nThe land mass of the Eastern Hemisphere is larger than that of the Western Hemisphere and has a wide variety of habitats.\n\n82% of humans live in the Eastern Hemisphere, and 18% in the Western Hemisphere.\n"}
{"id": "9162562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9162562", "title": "Ehon Hyaku Monogatari", "text": "Ehon Hyaku Monogatari\n\nThe , also called the is a book of \"yōkai\" illustrated by Japanese artist Takehara Shunsensai, published about 1841. The book was intended as a followup to Toriyama Sekien's \"Gazu Hyakki Yagyō\" series. Like those books, it is a supernatural bestiary of ghosts, monsters, and spirits which has had a profound influence on subsequent yōkai imagery in Japan.\n\nThe author's pen name is ; however, in the preface it is written as . According to the \"Kokusho Sōmokuroku\" (Iwanami Shoten) this is considered to be a gesaku author from the latter half of the Edo period, . \n\nIt can be said that this is a kind of hundred-tale \"kaidan\" (ghost story) book popular in the Edo period, as \"100 Tales\" is part of the title, but rather than being tales with story titles, yōkai names are printed with illustrations of yōkai, so it could be said that this work is a fusion of kaidan book and picture book.\n\nThis book is also known by the title \"Tōsanjin Yawa\" because the title on the first page of each volume is \"Tōsanjin Yawa, Volume [#].\" Scholar of Japanese manners and customs Ema Tsutomu (\"Nihon Yōkai Henka-shi\", 1923) and folklorist Fujisawa Morihiko (\"Hentai Densetsu-shi\", 1926), as well as magazines at that time, introduced this book by the name \"Tōsanjin Yawa\", and so this title became famous. On the other hand, Mizuki Shigeru, in his 1979 \"Yōkai 100 Monogatari\" describes it in his references as \"\"Ehon Hyaku Monogatari (Author: Tōsanjin, Year of publication: Unknown).\"\n\nIt has also been recognized that a book with completely the same contents, titled \"Ehon Kaidan Zoroe\", was published in 2005 by Yumoto Kōichi. The preface's title is changed, and the title of each volume is \"Ehon Kaidan Zoroe Volume [#]\" rather than \"Tōsanjin Yawa Volume [#]\". Upon examination, it appears to be an earlier publication than \"Ehon Hyaku Monogatari\", with the relationship that the inscriptions of \"Tōsanjin\" and \"Tōka Sanjin\" are mixed, and it also is generally suggested that the first edition of \"Ehon Hyaku Monogatari\" may have been published before 1841.\n\nThe illustrations below are numbered by volume and appearance order. For example, the third illustration in the first volume is 1-3, and so on. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1218397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1218397", "title": "El Morro National Monument", "text": "El Morro National Monument\n\nEl Morro National Monument is located on an ancient east-west trail in western New Mexico. The main feature of this National Monument is a great sandstone promontory with a pool of water at its base.\n\nAs a shaded oasis in the western U.S. desert, this site has seen many centuries of travelers. The remains of a mesa top pueblo are atop the promontory where between about 1275 to 1350 AD, up to 1500 people lived in this 875 room pueblo. The Spaniard explorers called it El Morro (\"The Headland\"). The Zuni Indians call it \"A'ts'ina\" (\"Place of writings on the rock\"). Anglo-Americans called it Inscription Rock. Travelers left signatures, names, dates, and stories of their treks. While some of the inscriptions are fading, there are still many that can be seen today, some dating to the 17th century. Among the Anglo-American emigrants who left their names there in 1858 were several members of the Rose-Baley Party, including Leonard Rose and John Udell. Some petroglyphs and carvings were made by the Ancestral Puebloan centuries before Europeans started making their mark. In 1906, U.S. federal law prohibited further carving.\n\nThe many inscriptions, water pool, pueblo ruins, and top of the promontory are all accessible via park trails.\n\nIt is on the Trails of the Ancients Byway, one of the designated New Mexico Scenic Byways.\n\nEl Morro National Monument has been featured in the film \"Four Faces West\" (1948) starring Joel McCrea.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25296388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25296388", "title": "Electrokinetic remediation", "text": "Electrokinetic remediation\n\nElectrokinetics remediation, also termed electrokinetics, is a technique of using direct electric current to remove organic, inorganic and heavy metal particles from the soil by electric potential. The use of this technique provides an approach with minimum disturbance to the surface while treating subsurface contaminants.\n\nA basic electrokinetics remediation site contains an external direct current source, a positively charged electrode (or anode) and a negatively charged electrode (or a cathode) placed into the ground. Placement of electrodes are based on size and shape of known contaminant plumes. The removal of contaminants and prevention of plume migration are big influences in determining the arrangement of electrodes. Each electrode is encased in a reservoir well in which an electrolytic solution can be injected. The electrolytic solutions serve both as a conducting media (or pore fluid) and as a means to extract contaminants and introduce chemicals or biological entities. Another use of the electrolytic solution is for control and/or depolarization of electrode reactions. Immersed in a solution the electrodes can result in oxidation at the anode site and the reduction at the cathodic site. The oxidation and formation of an acidic front are by products of the process and cause varying degree of influence to the system. By pumping, processing and testing the electrolytic solution at each electrode site you can extend the life and efficiency of the system.\n\nWhen current is applied, by the direct power source, to the electrodes, migrations occur beneath the soil surface. Although there are many types of migrations that occur in tandem with the current there are two driving migrations within electrokinetics; ionic migration and electrophoresis. When the electrolytic solution is injected within the soil part of the ionic solution forms a diffuse double layer with soils and contaminants. This diffused double layer will aid in the ionic drift that will occur as the current passes though the soil and surrounding liquid, this process is called electroosmosis. The thickness of the diffused double layer is a function of ionic composition of bulk solution and the average charge density of hydration products. As the electrolyte concentration increases the diffuse double layer thickness decreases.\nElectrophoresis is the mass flux of charged particles under an electric field. Both processes work at the same time but in a counter current manner. The charged particles driven by electrophoresis flow from the cathode to the anode while electrolytic solution flows from the anode to the cathode. Of the two main processes electrophoresis (or electromigration) is more dominant than electroosmosis. Electrophoresis servies as the driving factor that induces the flow of electroosmosis in the opposite direction. Electromigration also serves as the major component for ionic contaminant removal. For electromigration to occur absorbed material must be dissolved to an ionic form whether they are metals, organic or inorganic particles. Electroosmotic flow between the electrodes promotes the development of a low-pH environment in the soil. This low pH environment inhibits metallic contaminants from being sorbed onto soil particle surfaces which aids in the formation of compounds making electrokinetics possible. By this thought it is possible to acidify the soil and induce the release of absorbed heavy metals.\n\nElectrokinetic remediation is applied to many contaminants that can be dissolved within groundwater. Heavy metals are one of the main contaminants that are removed by the electrokinetics process. Some metals like cadmium (II) can be removed with high consequences on energy expenditure. Chromium (III) can be removed but with low efficiency because of the ease of hydrolysis allowing it to sorb to other substances. Chromium (IV) is also a candidate for electrokinetics removal although chromium (IV) migration is retarded in the presence of sulfur because it will break down into chromium (III). Other heavy metal species that are tested and reported to be treatable include; mercury, zinc, iron, lead, copper, and magnesium.\nElectrokinetics is also possible with alkali and alkaline earth metals which travel faster in most mediums than heavy metals. At tests between 20 to 30 volts, alkali metals were known to move between 50 to 60 cm per day per volts whereas heavy metal moved at velocities between 10 and 20 cm per day per volts. It is possible that this difference could be because of the slow desorption and dissolution of heavy metals. Electrokinetics can also be used to treat polar organic compounds (phenol and acetic acid) and radionucleotides (radium), toxic anions (nitrates and sulfates), dense, non-aqueous-phase liquids (DNAPLs), cyanide, petroleum hydrocarbons (diesel fuel, gasoline, kerosene and lubricating oils), halogenated pollutants, explosives, halogenated and polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons.\n\nOne of the advantages of electrokinetics is that the remediation can be conducted in situ (within the remediation site) to treat contaminants in low permeability zones to overcome accessibility of contaminants or delivery of treatment. Remediation can also occur ex situ (removed from the natural site) to have contaminants tested and treated within a laboratory. This versatility of treatment location can be very cost effective. Electrokinetics has the advantage of use in saturated or unsaturated soils because of the insertion of pore fluid. Remediation can also occur despite soil stratifications or homogeneity. For soils that are low in permeability like kaolite and clayey sands it is possible to remove up to 90% of heavy metal contaminants. In many cases pretreatment of soil should be made to determine appropriate working conditions of the soil.\n\nOne thing to note is that the potential profile in soils can be determined by the ionic distribution of pore fluid. Because ion distribution effects the efficiency of the electrokinetics system, engineers like John Dzenitis have done comprehensive study to find key reactions around the electrodes that can be used to create models for ionic flowrate prediction. These models can then be interpreted to determine if electrokinetics remediation is the best choice for a given site.\n\nA major limitation of electrokinetics is the introduction of an external fluid into the soil. If the contaminant cannot be dissolved it is not possible to extract the contaminant of interest. Electrolysis near the electrodes can alter the pH of the soil especially if the current is induced for an extended period of time. Extended use of electrokinetics system can also cause acidic conditions around the electrodes sometimes reacting with contaminants. If increased acidification of the soil is not environmentally acceptable the use of electrokinetics should be reevaluated. Large metal objects that are buried underground also pose as a limitation to electrodes because they offer a path to short circuit the system. Buried metal objects can also change the voltage gradient and decrease or stop the flow. The removal of volatile organic compounds from the soils can increase the soil vapor concentration. Counterintuitively, highly permeable soils lower the efficiency of electrokinetics. Where a low permeable soil like clay can receive up to 90% initial contaminant removal a low permeable soil like peat achieves about 65% removal of initial contaminants.\n\nAnother major limitation of the electrokinetics process is the decrease the electric potential of the system. Different polarization effects can decrease how the system runs. For instance:\nActivation polarization can occur during the electrokinetic remediation process removing gas bubbles that form on the surface of the electrodes during conductivity. Resistance polarization can occur after the electrokinetic remediation process has started a white layer can be observed. Just like in hard water stains this layer may be the insoluble salt and other impurities that inhibit conductivity. Concentration polarization happens when hydrogen ions generated at the anode are attracted to the cathode and the hydroxide ions generated at the cathode are attracted to the anode. If neutralization occurs the potential between the system drops. Local flattening of the electrical potential profile can also cause the difference in migration.\n\nIn many cases the study of specific site occurrences with electrokinetics remediation can lead to new advancements in the technology. \nMany times electrokinetics remediation will be coupled with other remediation forms to handle site specific issues. At a Danish Wood Perseveration copper was a heavy metal that polluted the soil in two forms; ionic solution with different complexes within the soil or a crystal lattice of soil minerals. For this site soil pH was a parameter of great importance because of an increased amount of copper present as ionic solution. By creating active barriers or exchange membranes that prevent ions from traveling from the electrode compartment into the soil. The separation of the soil from the electrode is designed to deter the acidification of the cathode and the current loss as highly mobile ions pass from electrode site through the soil. \nIn 1995 at the Paducah site, in Kentucky, USA a new technique was developed for removing heavy metals from soils. Called the Lasagna Process, it simply is the creation of several horizontal permeable zones used to provide treatment through the contaminated soil matrix by adding different admixtures to the electrolytic solution. Admixtures like sorbents, catalytic reagents, buffering solutions, oxidizing agents in this system are applied through a vertical system with the anode near the bottom and the cathode near the top. The orientation of vertical anode and cathode system make recycling of fluid and system treatment easier. The formation of the lasagna layers is due to fracturing in over-consolidated clays because of horizontal electrodes. Coupling of the horizontal electrodes with a vertical pressuring system make this method especially effective in removing contaminants from deeper layers of the soil. The first test of this process proved 98% effective of removing trichloroethylene from the Paducah site.\n"}
{"id": "17322938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17322938", "title": "Eurytherm", "text": "Eurytherm\n\nA eurytherm is an organism, often an endotherm, that can function at a wide range of ambient temperatures. To be considered a eurytherm, all stages of an organism's life cycle must be considered, including juvenile and larval stages. These wide ranges of tolerable temperatures are directly derived from the tolerance of a given eurythermal organism's proteins. Extreme examples of eurytherms include Tardigrades (\"Tardigrada\"), the desert pupfish (\"Cyprinodon macularis\"), and green crabs (\"Carcinus maenas\"), however, nearly all mammals, including humans, are considered eurytherms. Eurythermy can be an evolutionary advantage: adaptations to cold temperatures, called cold-eurythemy, are seen as essential for the survival of species during ice ages. In addition, the ability to survive in a wide range of temperatures increases a species' ability to inhabit other areas, an advantage for natural selection.\n\nEurythermy is an aspect of thermoregulation in organisms. It is in contrast with the idea of stenothermic organisms, which can only operate within a relatively narrow range of ambient temperatures. Through a wide variety of thermal coping mechanisms, eurythermic organisms can either provide or expel heat for themselves in order to survive in cold or hot, respectively, or otherwise prepare themselves for extreme temperatures. Certain species of eurytherm have been shown to have unique protein synthesis processes that differentiate them from relatively stenothermic, but otherwise similar, species.\n\n\nIt is thought that adaptations to cold temperatures (cold-eurythermy) in animals, despite the high cost of functional adaptation, has allowed for mobility and agility. This cold eurythermy is also viewed as a near necessity for survival of the evolutionary crises, including ice ages, that occur with relative frequency over the evolutionary timescale. Due to its ability to provide the excess energy and aerobic scope required for endothermy, eurythermy is considered to be the \"missing link\" between ectothermy and endothermy. The green crab's success demonstrates one example of eurythermic advantage. Although invasive species are typically considered to be detrimental to the environment in which they are introduced, and even considered to be a leading cause of animal extinctions, the ability of an animal to thrive in various environmental conditions is a form of evolutionary fitness, and therefore is typically a characteristic of successful species. A species' relative eurythermality is one of the main factors in its ability to survive in different conditions. One example of eurythermic advantage can be seen in the failure of many of the world's coral reefs. Most species of coral are considered to be stenothermic. The worldwide increase in oceanic temperatures has caused many coral reefs to begin bleaching and dying because the coral have begun to expel the zooxanthellae algae that live in their tissues and provide them with their food and color. This bleaching has resulted in a 50% mortality rate in observed corals in the waters off of Cape York in Northeastern Australia, and a 12% bleaching rate in observed reefs throughout the world. Although regulators, especially endotherms, expend a significantly higher proportion of energy per unit of mass, the advantages of endothermy, particularly endogenous thermogenesis, have proven significant enough for selection.\n\nThe ability to maintain homeostasis at varying temperatures is the most important characteristic in defining an endothermic eurytherm, whereas other, thermoconforming eurytherms like tardigrades are simply able to endure significant shifts in their internal body temperature that occur with ambient temperature changes. Eurythermic animals can be either conformers or regulators, meaning that their internal physiology can either vary with the external environment or maintain consistency regardless of the external environment, respectively. It is important to note that endotherms do not solely rely on internal thermogenesis for all parts of homeostasis or comfort; in fact, in many ways, they are equally as reliant upon behavior to regulate body temperature as ectotherms are. Reptiles are ectotherms, and therefore rely upon positive thermotaxis, basking (heliothermy), burrowing, and crowding with members of their species in order to regulate their body temperature within a narrow range and even to produce fevers to fight infection. Similarly, humans rely upon clothing, housing, air conditioning, and drinking to achieve the same goals, although humans are not considered indicative of endotherms on the whole.\n\nThe sustained supply of oxygen to body tissues determines the body temperature range of an organism. Eurytherms that live in environments with large temperature changes adapt to higher temperatures through a variety of methods. In green crabs, the process of initial warming results in an increase of oxygen consumption and heart rate, accompanied by a decrease in stroke volume and haemolymph oxygen partial pressure. As this warming continues, dissolved oxygen levels decrease below the threshold for full haemocyanin oxygen saturation. This heating then progressively releases haemocyanin-bound oxygen, saving energy in oxygen transport and resulting in an associated leveling off of metabolic rate.\n\nKey to maintaining homeostasis, individual thermoregulation is the ability to maintain internal body temperature in humans, the most recognizable eurytherm. In humans, deep-body temperature is regulated by cutaneous blood flow, which maintains this temperature despite changes in the external environment. \"Homo Sapiens\"' ability to survive in different ambient temperatures is a key factor in the species success, and one cited reason for why \"Homo sapiens\" eventually outcompeted Neanderthals (\"Homo neanderthalensis).\" Humans have two major forms of thermogenesis. The first is shivering, in which a warm-blooded creature produces involuntary contraction of skeletal muscle in order to produce heat. In addition, shivering also signals the body to produce irisin, a hormone that has been shown to convert white fat to brown fat, which is used in non-shivering thermogenesis, the second type of human thermogensis. Non-shivering thermogenesis occurs in the brown fat, which contains the uncoupling protein thermogenin. This protein decreases the proton gradient generated in oxidative phosphorylation during the synthesis of ATP, uncoupling the electron transport in the mitochondrion from the production of chemical energy (ATP). This creation of a gradient across the mitochondrial membrane causes energy to be lost as heat. On the other hand, humans have only one method of cooling themselves, biologically speaking: sweat evaporation. Cutaneous eccrine sweat glands produce sweat, which is made up of mostly water with a small amount of ions. Evaporation of this sweat helps to cool the blood beneath the skin, resulting in a cooling of deep-body temperature.\n\nWhile some organisms are eurythermic due to their ability to regulate internal body temperature, like humans, others have wildly different methods of extreme temperature tolerance. Tardigrades are able to enter an anhydrobiotic state, often called a tun, in order to both prevent desiccation and endure extreme temperatures. In this state, tardigrades decrease their bodily water to about 1–3% wt./wt. Although this state allows certain tardigrades to endure temperatures at the extremes of –273° and 150 °C at the extremes, tardigrades in their hydrated state are able to withstand temperatures as low as –196 °C. This displayed extremotolerance has led scientists to speculate that tardigrades could theoretically survive on Mars, where temperatures regularly fluctuate between –123° and 25 °C, as well as even possibly the near absolute zero of interplanetary space. The tardigrade's ability to withstand extremely cold temperatures as a tun is a form of cryptobiosis called cryobiosis. Although the high temperature endurance of tardigrades has been significantly less studied, their cryobiotic response to low temperatures has been well-documented. Tardigrades are able to withstand such cold temperatures not by avoiding freezing using antifreeze proteins as a freeze avoidance organism would, but rather by tolerating ice formation in the extracellular body water, activated by ice nucleating proteins.\n\nIn addition to other organisms, plants (Plantae) can be either stenothermic or eurythermic. Plants inhabiting the boreal and polar climates generally tend to be cold-eurythermic, enduring temperatures as cold as –85°, and as warm as at least 20 °C, such as boreal deciduous conifers. This is in direct contrast to plants that typically inhabit more tropical or montane regions, where plants may have purely tolerable range between only about 10° and 25 °C, such as the banyan tree.\nThe tolerance for extreme body temperatures in a given eurythermic organism is largely due to an increased temperature tolerance by the respective organism's homologous proteins. In particular, the proteins of a warm-adapted species may be inherently more eurythermal than a cold-adapted species, with warm-adapted species' proteins withstanding higher temperatures before beginning to denature, therefore avoiding possible cell death. Eurythermal species also have shown adaptations in protein synthesis rates compared to non-eurythermal similar species. Rainbow trout\"(Salmo gairdneri\") have shown constant protein synthesis rates formula_1 over temperatures ranging from 5° to 20 °C, after acclimating to any temperature in this range for 1 month. In contrast, carp (C\"yprinus carpio\"\")\" have shown significantly higher protein synthesis rates after acclimating to higher water temperatures (25 °C) than after acclimating to lower water temperatures (10 °C). This type of experiment is common throughout fish. A similar example is given by the Senegalese sole (\"Solea senegalensis\"), which, when acclimated to temperatures of 26 °C, produced a significantly higher amount of taurine, glutamate, GABA and glycine compared to acclimation to 12 °C. This may mean that the aforementioned compounds aid in antioxidant defense, osmoregulatory processes, or energetic purposes at these temperatures.\n"}
{"id": "50407308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50407308", "title": "Fog House", "text": "Fog House\n\nFog Houses are a special type of pleasure or summer house popular in Scotland and at one time commonly found on many country estates as a feature in the pleasure gardens. The name 'Fog' derives from the Scots word for the moss that was a major feature of the building, mainly used to line the walls and roof.\n\nOne definition states that 'Fog Houses' were 'Pleasure Houses', small shelters lined with mossy turf. They were often thatched with materials such as heather. Contents typically included a curved bench placed against the walls with other features such as the example at Bonnington Isle that had its table and bench neatly covered with moss, and the one at Ballochmyle in Ayrshire that had the verses of a Robert Burns song hanging from the walls.\n\n\nBallochmyle lies near Mauchline and Robert Burns' Mossgeil Farm where Robert lived for a time. Whilst walking in the private estate he saw Wilhelmina Alexander, sister of the owner, walking alone and this inspired him to compose a romantic song. Burns wrote to her, enclosing the song, seeking her permission to allow him to publish it. Wilhelmina was 30 years old at the time and no great beauty, so thinking that Robert was teasing her and being aware of his reputation she never replied. The correspondence was however in later life one of her most prized possessions and, as stated, the Ballochmyle Fog House was built in honour of the occasion.\n\nThese verses were hung on the walls of the fog house\n\n\"The Lass o'Ballochmyle\"\n</div>\n</div>\n\nCuthbertson visited in the 1940s and comments on the winding mossy paths by which the 'heather house' was reached, confirming that it was built on the site where the poet first espied Wilhelmina Alexander. He goes on to mention the rarely visited 'Poet's Seat', a vantage point where Burns would sit and think over his poems and songs. The seat was the branch of an oak that grew horizontally at this point. \n\nThe building that overlooked Gaans Holm was octagonal and nine feet wide. It was originally open on three sides however it was later altered to have a doorway and two windows. It had symbols such as hearts and cupid's arrows in addition to the aforementioned verses. The board with the verses was stolen and only recovered twenty years later from an address in Glasgow.\n\nDouglas refers to the fog house as a rustic grotto and states that the two verses were recorded on a tablet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12448", "title": "Ganges", "text": "Ganges\n\nThe Ganges ( ), or Ganga (; ), is a trans-boundary river of the Indian subcontinent which flows through the nations of India and Bangladesh. The river rises in the western Himalayas in the Indian state of Uttarakhand, and flows south and east through the Gangetic Plain of North India. After entering West Bengal, it divides into two rivers: the Hooghly River and the Padma River. The Hooghly, or Adi Ganga, flows through several districts of West Bengal and into the Bay of Bengal near Sagar Island. The other, the Padma, also flows into and through Bangladesh, and also empties into the Bay of Bengal. \n\nThe Ganga is one of the most sacred rivers to Hindus. It is also a lifeline to millions of Indians who live along its course and depend on it for their daily needs. It is worshipped in Hinduism and personified as the goddess Gaṅgā. It has also been important historically, with many former provincial or imperial capitals (such as Kannauj, Kampilya, Kara, Prayag or Allahabad, Kashi, Pataliputra or Patna, Hajipur, Munger, Bhagalpur, Murshidabad, Baharampur, Nabadwip, Saptagram, Kolkata and Dhaka) located on its banks.\n\nThe Ganges is highly polluted. Pollution threatens not only humans, but also more than 140 fish species, 90 amphibian species and the endangered Ganges river dolphin. The levels of fecal coliform bacteria from human waste in the waters of the river near Varanasi are more than 100 times the Indian government's official limit. The Ganga Action Plan, an environmental initiative to clean up the river, has been a major failure thus far, due to rampant corruption, lack of will on behalf of the government and its bureaucracy, lack of technical expertise, poor environmental planning, and lack of support from religious authorities.\n\nThe main stream of the Ganges begins at the confluence of the Bhagirathi and Alaknanda rivers in the town of Devprayag in the Garhwal division of the Indian state of Uttarakhand. The Bhagirathi is considered to be the source in Hindu culture and mythology, although the Alaknanda is longer, and, therefore, hydrologically the source stream. The headwaters of the Alakananda are formed by snowmelt from peaks such as Nanda Devi, Trisul, and Kamet. The Bhagirathi rises at the foot of Gangotri Glacier, at Gomukh, at an elevation of , being mythologically referred to as, residing in the matted locks of Shiva, symbolically Tapovan, being a meadow of ethereal beauty at the feet of Mount Shivling, just away.\n\nAlthough many small streams comprise the headwaters of the Ganges, the six longest and their five confluences are considered sacred. The six headstreams are the Alaknanda, Dhauliganga, Nandakini, Pindar, Mandakini, and Bhagirathi rivers. The five confluences, known as the Panch Prayag, are all along the Alaknanda. They are, in downstream order, Vishnuprayag, where the Dhauliganga joins the Alaknanda; Nandprayag, where the Nandakini joins; Karnaprayag, where the Pindar joins, Rudraprayag, where the Mandakini joins; and finally, Devprayag, where the Bhagirathi joins the Alaknanda to form the Ganges River proper.\n\nAfter flowing 250 km (155.343 mi) through its narrow Himalayan valley, the Ganges emerges from the mountains at Rishikesh, then debouches onto the Gangetic Plain at the pilgrimage town of Haridwar. At Haridwar, a dam diverts some of its waters into the Ganges Canal, which irrigates the \"Doab\" region of Uttar Pradesh, whereas the river, whose course has been roughly southwest until this point, now begins to flow southeast through the plains of northern India.\n\nThe Ganges follows an arching course passing through the cities of Kannauj, Farukhabad, and Kanpur. Along the way it is joined by the Ramganga, which contributes an average annual flow of about . The Ganges joins the Yamuna at the Triveni Sangam at Allahabad, a holy confluence in Hinduism. At their confluence the Yamuna is larger than the Ganges, contributing about , or about 58.5% of the combined flow.\n\nNow flowing east, the river meets the Tamsa River (also called \"Tons\"), which flows north from the Kaimur Range and contributes an average flow of about . After the Tamsa the Gomti River joins, flowing south from the Himalayas. The Gomti contributes an average annual flow of about . Then the Ghaghara River (Karnali River), also flowing south from the Himalayas of Nepal, joins. The Ghaghara (Karnali), with its average annual flow of about , is the largest tributary of the Ganges. After the Ghaghara (Karnali) confluence the Ganges is joined from the south by the Son River, contributing about . The Gandaki River, then the Kosi River, join from the north flowing from Nepal, contributing about and , respectively. The Kosi is the third largest tributary of the Ganges, after the Ghaghara (Karnali) and Yamuna.The Kosi merges into the Ganges near Kursela in Bihar.\n\nAlong the way between Allahabad and Malda, West Bengal, the Ganges passes the towns of Chunar, Mirzapur, Varanasi, Ghazipur, Patna, Hajipur, Chapra, Bhagalpur, Ballia, Buxar, Simaria, Sultanganj, and Saidpur. At Bhagalpur, the river begins to flow south-southeast and at Pakur, it begins its attrition with the branching away of its first distributary, the Bhāgirathi-Hooghly, which goes on to become the Hooghly River. Just before the border with Bangladesh the Farakka Barrage controls the flow of the Ganges, diverting some of the water into a feeder canal linked to the Hooghly for the purpose of keeping it relatively silt-free. The Hooghly River is formed by the confluence of the Bhagirathi River and Jalangi River at Nabadwip, and Hooghly has a number of tributaries of its own. The largest is the Damodar River, which is long, with a drainage basin of . The Hooghly River empties into the Bay of Bengal near Sagar Island. Between Malda and the Bay of Bengal, the Hooghly river passes the towns and cities of Murshidabad, Nabadwip, Kolkata and Howrah.\n\nAfter entering Bangladesh, the main branch of the Ganges is known as the Padma. The Padma is joined by the Jamuna River, the largest distributary of the Brahmaputra. Further downstream, the Padma joins the Meghna River, the second largest distributary of the Brahmaputra, and takes on the Meghna's name as it enters the Meghna Estuary, which empties into the Bay of Bengal. Here it forms the Bengal Fan, the world's largest submarine fan, which alone accounts for 10–20% of the global burial of organic carbon.\n\nThe Ganges Delta, formed mainly by the large, sediment-laden flows of the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers, is the world's largest delta, at about . It stretches along the Bay of Bengal.\n\nOnly the Amazon and Congo rivers have a greater average discharge than the combined flow of the Ganges, the Brahmaputra, and the Surma-Meghna river system. In full flood only the Amazon is larger.\n\nThe Indian subcontinent lies atop the Indian tectonic plate, a minor plate within the Indo-Australian Plate. Its defining geological processes commenced seventy-five million years ago, when, as a part of the southern supercontinent Gondwana, it began a northeastwards drift—lasting fifty million years—across the then unformed Indian Ocean. The subcontinent's subsequent collision with the Eurasian Plate and subduction under it, gave rise to the Himalayas, the planet's highest mountain ranges. In the former seabed immediately south of the emerging Himalayas, plate movement created a vast trough, which, having gradually been filled with sediment borne by the Indus and its tributaries and the Ganges and its tributaries, now forms the Indo-Gangetic Plain.\n\nThe Indo-Gangetic Plain is geologically known as a foredeep or foreland basin.\n\nThe hydrology of the Ganges River is very complicated, especially in the Ganges Delta region. One result is different ways to determine the river's length, its discharge, and the size of its drainage basin.\n\nThe name \"Ganges\" is used for the river between the confluence of the Bhagirathi and Alaknanda rivers, in the Himalayas, and the India-Bangladesh border, near the Farakka Barrage and the first bifurcation of the river. The length of the Ganges is frequently said to be slightly over long, about , to , or perhaps . In these cases the river's source is usually assumed to be the source of the Bhagirathi River, Gangotri Glacier at Gomukh, and its mouth being the mouth of the Meghna River on the Bay of Bengal. Sometimes the source of the Ganges is considered to be at Haridwar, where its Himalayan headwater streams debouch onto the Gangetic Plain.\n\nIn some cases, the length of the Ganges is given for its Hooghly River distributary, which is longer than its main outlet via the Meghna River, resulting in a total length of about , from the source of the Bhagirathi, or , from Haridwar to the Hooghly's mouth. In other cases the length is said to be about , from the source of the Bhagirathi to the Bangladesh border, where its name changes to \"Padma\".\n\nFor similar reasons, sources differ over the size of the river's drainage basin. The basin covers parts of four countries, India, Nepal, China, and Bangladesh; eleven Indian states, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, West Bengal, and the Union Territory of Delhi. The Ganges basin, including the delta but not the Brahmaputra or Meghna basins, is about , of which are in India (about 80%), in Nepal (13%), in Bangladesh (4%), and in China (3%). Sometimes the Ganges and Brahmaputra–Meghna drainage basins are combined for a total of about , or . The combined Ganges-Brahmaputra-Meghna basin (abbreviated GBM or GMB) drainage basin is spread across Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, and China.\n\nThe Ganges basin ranges from the Himalaya and the Transhimalaya in the north, to the northern slopes of the Vindhya range in the south, from the eastern slopes of the Aravalli in the west to the Chota Nagpur plateau and the Sunderbans delta in the east. A significant portion of the discharge from the Ganges comes from the Himalayan mountain system. Within the Himalaya, the Ganges basin spreads almost 1,200 km from the Yamuna-Satluj divide along the Simla ridge forming the boundary with the Indus basin in the west to the Singalila Ridge along the Nepal-Sikkim border forming the boundary with the Brahmaputra basin in the east. This section of the Himalaya contains 9 of the 14 highest peaks in the world over 8,000m in height, including Mount Everest which is the high point of the Ganges basin. The other peaks over 8,000m in the basin are Kangchenjunga, Lhotse, Makalu, Cho Oyu, Dhaulagiri, Manaslu, Annapurna and Shishapangma. The Himalayan portion of the basin includes the south-eastern portion of the state of Himachal Pradesh, the entire state of Uttarakhand, the entire country of Nepal and the extreme north-western portion of the state of West Bengal.\n\nThe discharge of the Ganges also differs by source. Frequently, discharge is described for the mouth of the Meghna River, thus combining the Ganges with the Brahmaputra and Meghna. This results in a total average annual discharge of about , or . In other cases the average annual discharges of the Ganges, Brahmaputra, and Meghna are given separately, at about for the Ganges, about for the Brahmaputra, and about for the Meghna.\nThe maximum peak discharge of the Ganges, as recorded at Hardinge Bridge in Bangladesh, exceeded . The minimum recorded at the same place was about , in 1997.\n\nThe hydrologic cycle in the Ganges basin is governed by the Southwest Monsoon. About 84% of the total rainfall occurs in the monsoon from June to September. Consequently, streamflow in the Ganges is highly seasonal. The average dry season to monsoon discharge ratio is about 1:6, as measured at Hardinge Bridge. This strong seasonal variation underlies many problems of land and water resource development in the region. The seasonality of flow is so acute it can cause both drought and floods. Bangladesh, in particular, frequently experiences drought during the dry season and regularly suffers extreme floods during the monsoon.\n\nIn the Ganges Delta many large rivers come together, both merging and bifurcating in a complicated network of channels. The two largest rivers, the Ganges and Brahmaputra, both split into distributary channels, the largest of which merge with other large rivers before themselves joining. This current channel pattern was not always the case. Over time the rivers in Ganges Delta have changed course, sometimes altering the network of channels in significant ways.\n\nBefore the late 12th century the Bhagirathi-Hooghly distributary was the main channel of the Ganges and the Padma was only a minor spill-channel. The main flow of the river reached the sea not via the modern Hooghly River but rather by the Adi Ganga. Between the 12th and 16th centuries the Bhagirathi-Hooghly and Padma channels were more or less equally significant. After the 16th century the Padma grew to become the main channel of the Ganges. It is thought that the Bhagirathi-Hooghly became increasingly choked with silt, causing the main flow of the Ganges to shift to the southeast and the Padma River. By the end of the 18th century the Padma had become the main distributary of the Ganges. One result of this shift to the Padma was that the Ganges joined the Meghna and Brahmaputra rivers before emptying into the Bay of Bengal, together instead of separately. The present confluence of the Ganges and Meghna formed about 150 years ago.\n\nAlso near the end of the 18th century, the course of the lower Brahmaputra changed dramatically, altering its relationship with the Ganges. In 1787 there was a great flood on the Teesta River, which at the time was a tributary of the Ganges-Padma River. The flood of 1787 caused the Teesta to undergo a sudden change course (an avulsion), shifting east to join the Brahmaputra and causing the Brahmaputra to shift its course south, cutting a new channel. This new main channel of the Brahmaputra is called the Jamuna River. It flows south to join the Ganges-Padma. Since ancient times the main flow of the Brahmaputra was more easterly, passing by the city of Mymensingh and joining the Meghna River. Today this channel is a small distributary but retains the name Brahmaputra, sometimes Old Brahmaputra. The site of the old Brahmaputra-Meghna confluence, in the locality of Langalbandh, is still considered sacred by Hindus. Near the confluence is a major early historic site called Wari-Bateshwar.\n\nThe Late Harappan period, about 1900–1300 BCE, saw the spread of Harappan settlement eastward from the Indus River basin to the Ganges-Yamuna doab, although none crossed the Ganges to settle its eastern bank. The disintegration of the Harappan civilisation, in the early 2nd millennium BC, marks the point when the centre of Indian civilisation shifted from the Indus basin to the Ganges basin. There may be links between the Late Harappan settlement of the Ganges basin and the archaeological culture known as \"Cemetery H\", the Indo-Aryan people, and the Vedic period.\n\nThis river is the longest in India. During the early Vedic Age of the \"Rigveda\", the Indus and the Sarasvati River were the major sacred rivers, not the Ganges. But the later three Vedas gave much more importance to the Ganges. The Gangetic Plain became the centre of successive powerful states, from the Maurya Empire to the Mughal Empire.\n\nThe first European traveller to mention the Ganges was Megasthenes (ca. 350–290 BCE). He did so several times in his work Indica: \"India, again, possesses many rivers both large and navigable, which, having their sources in the mountains which stretch along the northern frontier, traverse the level country, and not a few of these, after uniting with each other, fall into the river called the Ganges. Now this river, which at its source is 30 stadia broad, flows from north to south, and empties its waters into the ocean forming the eastern boundary of the Gangaridai, a nation which possesses a vast force of the largest-sized elephants.\" (Diodorus II.37)\nIn the rainy season of 1809, the lower channel of the Bhagirathi, leading to Kolkata, had been entirely shut; but in the following year it opened again, and was nearly of the same size with the upper channel; both however suffered a considerable diminution, owing probably to the new communication opened below the Jalanggi on the upper channel.\n\nIn 1951 a water sharing dispute arose between India and East Pakistan (now Bangladesh), after India declared its intention to build the Farakka Barrage. The original purpose of the barrage, which was completed in 1975, was to divert up to of water from the Ganges to the Bhagirathi-Hooghly distributary in order to restore navigability at the Port of Kolkata. It was assumed that during the worst dry season the Ganges flow would be around , thus leaving for the then East Pakistan. East Pakistan objected and a protracted dispute ensued. In 1996 a 30-year treaty was signed with Bangladesh. The terms of the agreement are complicated, but in essence they state that if the Ganges flow at Farakka was less than then India and Bangladesh would each receive 50% of the water, with each receiving at least for alternating ten-day periods. However, within a year the flow at Farakka fell to levels far below the historic average, making it impossible to implement the guaranteed sharing of water. In March 1997, flow of the Ganges in Bangladesh dropped to its lowest ever, . Dry season flows returned to normal levels in the years following, but efforts were made to address the problem. One plan is for another barrage to be built in Bangladesh at Pangsha, west of Dhaka. This barrage would help Bangladesh better utilise its share of the waters of the Ganges.\n\nThe Ganges is a sacred river to Hindus along every fragment of its length. All along its course, Hindus bathe in its waters, paying homage to their ancestors and to their gods by cupping the water in their hands, lifting it and letting it fall back into the river; they offer flowers and rose petals and float shallow clay dishes filled with oil and lit with wicks (diyas). On the journey back home from the Ganges, they carry small quantities of river water with them for use in rituals (Ganga jal, literally water of the Ganges).\n\nThe Ganges is the embodiment of all sacred waters in Hindu mythology. Local rivers are said to be \"like\" the Ganges, and are sometimes called the local Ganges (Ganga). The Kaveri river of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in Southern India is called the Ganges of the South; the Godavari, is the Ganges that was led by the sage Gautama to flow through Central India. The Ganges is invoked whenever water is used in Hindu ritual, and is therefore present in all sacred waters. In spite of this, nothing is more stirring for a Hindu than a dip in the actual river, which is thought to remit sins, especially at one of the famous tirthas such as Gangotri, Haridwar, Prayag, or Varanasi. The symbolic and religious importance of the Ganges is one of the few things that Hindu India, even its skeptics, are agreed upon. Jawaharlal Nehru, a religious iconoclast himself, asked for a handful of his ashes to be thrown into the Ganges. \"The Ganga,\" he wrote in his will, \"is the river of India, beloved of her people, round which are intertwined her racial memories, her hopes and fears, her songs of triumph, her victories and her defeats. She has been a symbol of India's age-long culture and civilization, ever-changing, ever-flowing, and yet ever the same Ganga.\"\n\nIn late May or early June every year, Hindus celebrate the \"karunasiri\" and rise of the Ganges from earth to heaven. The day of the celebration, \"Ganga Dashahara\", the \"dashami\" (tenth day) of the waxing moon of the Hindu calendar month Jyestha, brings throngs of bathers to the banks of the river. A dip in the Ganges on this day is said to rid the bather of ten sins (dasha = Sanskrit \"ten\"; hara = to destroy) or alternatively, ten lifetimes of sins. Those who cannot journey to the river, however, can achieve the same results by bathing in any nearby body of water, which, for the true believer, in the Hindu tradition, takes on all the attributes of the Ganges.\n\nThe \"karunasiri\" is an old theme in Hinduism with a number of different versions of the story. In the Vedic version, Indra, the Lord of Svarga (Heaven) slays the celestial serpent, Vritra, releasing the celestial liquid, the \"soma\", or the nectar of the gods which then plunges to the earth and waters it with sustenance.\n\nIn the Vaishnava version of the myth, the heavenly waters are now a river called \"Vishnupadi\" (\"padi\": Skt. \"from the foot of\"). As Lord Vishnu completes his celebrated three strides—of earth, sky, and heaven—Vishnu as Vamana stubs his toe on the vault of heaven, punches open a hole, and releases the \"Vishnupadi\", which until now had been circling around the cosmic egg within. Flowing out of the vault, she plummets down to Indra's heaven, where she is received by Dhruva, the once steadfast worshipper of Vishnu, now fixed in the sky as the polestar. Next, she streams across the sky forming the Milky Way and arrives on the moon. She then flows down earthwards to Brahma's realm, a divine lotus atop Mount Meru, whose petals form the earthly continents. There, the divine waters break up, with one stream, the Alaknanda, flowing down one petal into Bharatvarsha (India) as the Ganges.\n\nIt is Shiva, however, among the major deities of the Hindu pantheon, who appears in the most widely known version of the \"avatarana\" story. Told and retold in the Ramayana, the Mahabharata and several Puranas, the story begins with a sage, Kapila, whose intense meditation has been disturbed by the sixty thousand sons of King Sagara. Livid at being disturbed, Kapila sears them with his angry gaze, reduces them to ashes, and dispatches them to the netherworld. Only the waters of the Ganges, then in heaven, can bring the dead sons their salvation. A descendant of these sons, King Bhagiratha, anxious to restore his ancestors, undertakes rigorous penance and is eventually granted the prize of Ganga's descent from heaven. However, since her turbulent force would also shatter the earth, Bhagiratha persuades Shiva in his abode on Mount Kailash to receive Ganga in the coils of his tangled hair and break her fall. Ganga descends, is tamed in Shiva's locks, and arrives in the Himalayas. She is then led by the waiting Bhagiratha down into the plains at Haridwar, across the plains first to the confluence with the Yamuna at Prayag and then to Varanasi, and eventually to Ganga Sagar, where she meets the ocean, sinks to the netherworld, and saves the sons of Sagara. In honour of Bhagirath's pivotal role in the \"avatarana\", the source stream of the Ganges in the Himalayas is named Bhagirathi, (Sanskrit, \"of Bhagiratha\").\n\nSince Ganga had descended from heaven to earth, she is also the vehicle of \"ascent\", from earth to heaven. As the \"Triloka-patha-gamini\", (Skt. \"triloka\"= \"three worlds\", \"patha\" = \"road\", \"gamini\" = \"one who travels\") of the Hindu tradition, she flows in heaven, earth, and the netherworld, and, consequently, is a \"tirtha,\" or crossing point of all beings, the living as well as the dead. It is for this reason that the story of the \"avatarana\" is told at \"Shraddha\" ceremonies for the deceased in Hinduism, and Ganges water is used in Vedic rituals after death. Among all hymns devoted to the Ganges, there are none more popular than the ones expressing the worshipers wish to breathe his last surrounded by her waters. The \"Gangashtakam\" expresses this longing fervently: O Mother! ... Necklace adorning the worlds! <br> Banner rising to heaven! <br> I ask that I may leave of this body on your banks,<br> Drinking your water, rolling in your waves, <br> Remembering your name, bestowing my gaze upon you.\nNo place along her banks is more longed for at the moment of death by Hindus than Varanasi, the Great Cremation Ground, or \"Mahashmshana\". Those who are lucky enough to die in Varanasi, are cremated on the banks of the Ganges, and are granted instant salvation. If the death has occurred elsewhere, salvation can be achieved by immersing the ashes in the Ganges. If the ashes have been immersed in another body of water, a relative can still gain salvation for the deceased by journeying to the Ganges, if possible during the lunar \"fortnight of the ancestors\" in the Hindu calendar month of Ashwin (September or October), and performing the \"Shraddha\" rites.\n\nHindus also perform \"pinda pradana\", a rite for the dead, in which balls of rice and sesame seed are offered to the Ganges while the names of the deceased relatives are recited. Every sesame seed in every ball thus offered, according to one story, assures a thousand years of heavenly salvation for the each relative. Indeed, the Ganges is so important in the rituals after death that the \"Mahabharata\", in one of its popular \"ślokas\", says, \"If only (one) bone of a (deceased) person should touch the water of the Ganges, that person shall dwell honoured in heaven.\" As if to illustrate this truism, the \"Kashi Khanda\" (Varanasi Chapter) of the Skanda Purana recounts the remarkable story of \"Vahika\", a profligate and unrepentant sinner, who is killed by a tiger in the forest. His soul arrives before Yama, the Lord of Death, to be judged for the hereafter. Having no compensating virtue, Vahika's soul is at once dispatched to hell. While this is happening, his body on earth, however, is being picked at by vultures, one of whom flies away with a foot bone. Another bird comes after the vulture, and in fighting him off, the vulture accidentally drops the bone into the Ganges below. Blessed by this happenstance, Vahika, on his way to hell, is rescued by a celestial chariot which takes him instead to heaven.\n\nHindus consider the waters of the Ganges to be both pure and purifying. Nothing reclaims order from disorder more than the waters of the Ganges. Moving water, as in a river, is considered purifying in Hindu culture because it is thought to both absorb impurities and take them away. The swiftly moving Ganges, especially in its upper reaches, where a bather has to grasp an anchored chain in order to not be carried away, is considered especially purifying. What the Ganges removes, however, is not necessarily physical dirt, but symbolic dirt; it wipes away the sins of the bather, not just of the present, but of a lifetime.\n\nA popular paean to the Ganges is the \"Ganga Lahiri\" composed by a seventeenth century poet Jagannatha who, legend has it, was turned out of his Hindu Brahmin caste for carrying on an affair with a Muslim woman. Having attempted futilely to be rehabilitated within the Hindu fold, the poet finally appeals to Ganga, the hope of the hopeless, and the comforter of last resort. Along with his beloved, Jagannatha sits at the top of the flight of steps leading to the water at the famous \"Panchganga\" Ghat in Varanasi. As he recites each verse of the poem, the water of the Ganges rises up one step, until in the end it envelops the lovers and carry them away. \"I come to you as a child to his mother,\" begins the \"Ganga Lahiri\". I come as an orphan to you, moist with love. <br> I come without refuge to you, giver of sacred rest. <br> I come a fallen man to you, uplifter of all. <br> I come undone by disease to you, the perfect physician. <br> I come, my heart dry with thirst, to you, ocean of sweet wine. <br> Do with me whatever you will.\n\nGanga is a consort to all three major male deities of Hinduism. As Brahma's partner she always travels with him in the form of water in his kamandalu (water-pot). She is also Vishnu's consort. Not only does she emanate from his foot as \"Vishnupadi\" in the \"avatarana\" story, but is also, with Sarasvati and Lakshmi, one of his co-wives. In one popular story, envious of being outdone by each other, the co-wives begin to quarrel. While Lakshmi attempts to mediate the quarrel, Ganga and Sarasvati, heap misfortune on each other. They curse each other to become rivers, and to carry within them, by washing, the sins of their human worshippers. Soon their husband, Vishnu, arrives and decides to calm the situation by separating the goddesses. He orders Sarasvati to become the wife of Brahma, Ganga to become the wife of Shiva, and Lakshmi, as the blameless conciliator, to remain as his own wife. Ganga and Sarasvati, however, are so distraught at this dispensation, and wail so loudly, that Vishnu is forced to take back his words. Consequently, in their lives as rivers they are still thought to be with him.\nIt is Shiva's relationship with Ganga, that is the best-known in Ganges mythology. Her descent, the \"avatarana\" is not a one time event, but a continuously occurring one in which she is forever falling from heaven into his locks and being forever tamed. Shiva, is depicted in Hindu iconography as \"Gangadhara\", the \"Bearer of the Ganga,\" with Ganga, shown as spout of water, rising from his hair. The Shiva-Ganga relationship is both perpetual and intimate. Shiva is sometimes called \"Uma-Ganga-Patiswara\" (\"Husband and Lord of Uma (Parvati) and Ganga\"), and Ganga often arouses the jealousy of Shiva's better-known consort Parvati.\n\nGanga is the \"shakti\" or the moving, restless, rolling energy in the form of which the otherwise recluse and unapproachable Shiva appears on earth. As water, this moving energy can be felt, tasted, and absorbed. The war-god Skanda addresses the sage Agastya in the \"Kashi Khand\" of the \"Skanda Purana\" in these words: One should not be amazed ... that this Ganges is really Power, for is she not the Supreme Shakti of the Eternal Shiva, taken in the form of water?<br> This Ganges, filled with the sweet wine of compassion, was sent out for the salvation of the world by Shiva, the Lord of the Lords. <br> Good people should not think this Triple-Pathed River to be like the thousand other earthly rivers, filled with water. \n\nThe Ganges is also the mother, the \"Ganga Mata\" (\"mata\"=\"mother\") of Hindu worship and culture, accepting all and forgiving all. Unlike other goddesses, she has no destructive or fearsome aspect, destructive though she might be as a river in nature. She is also a mother to other gods. She accepts Shiva's incandescent seed from the fire-god Agni, which is too hot for this world, and cools it in her waters. This union produces Skanda, or Kartikeya, the god of war. In the \"Mahabharata\", she is the wife of Shantanu, and the mother of heroic warrior-patriarch, Bhishma. When Bhishma is mortally wounded in battle, Ganga comes out of the water in human form and weeps uncontrollably over his body.\n\nThe Ganges is the distilled lifeblood of the Hindu tradition, of its divinities, holy books, and enlightenment. As such, her worship does not require the usual rites of invocation (\"avahana\") at the beginning and dismissal (\"visarjana\") at the end, required in the worship of other gods. Her divinity is immediate and everlasting.\n\nEarly in ancient Indian culture, the river Ganges was associated with fecundity, its redeeming waters and its rich silt providing sustenance to all who lived along its banks. A counterpoise to the dazzling heat of the Indian summer, the Ganges came to be imbued with magical qualities and to be revered in anthropomorphic form. By the 5th century CE, an elaborate mythology surrounded the Ganges, now a goddess in her own right, and a symbol for all rivers of India. Hindu temples all over India had statues and reliefs of the goddess carved at their entrances, symbolically washing the sins of arriving worshippers and guarding the gods within. As protector of the sanctum sanctorum, the goddess soon came to depicted with several characteristic accessories: the \"makara\" (a crocodile-like undersea monster, often shown with an elephant-like trunk), the \"kumbha\" (an overfull vase), various overhead parasol-like coverings, and a gradually increasing retinue of humans.\n\nCentral to the goddess's visual identification is the \"makara\", which is also her \"vahana\", or mount. An ancient symbol in India, it pre-dates all appearances of the goddess Ganga in art. The \"makara\" has a dual symbolism. On the one hand, it represents the life-affirming waters and plants of its environment; on the other, it represents fear, both fear of the unknown it elicits by lurking in those waters and real fear it instils by appearing in sight. The earliest extant unambiguous pairing of the \"makara\" with Ganga is at Udayagiri Caves in Central India (circa 400 CE). Here, in Cave V, flanking the main figure of Vishnu shown in his boar incarnation, two river goddesses, Ganga and Yamuna appear atop their respective mounts, \"makara\" and \"kurma\" (a turtle or tortoise).\n\nThe \"makara\" is often accompanied by a \"gana\", a small boy or child, near its mouth, as, for example, shown in the Gupta period relief from Besnagar, Central India, in the left-most frame above. The \"gana\" represents both posterity and development (\"udbhava\"). The pairing of the fearsome, life-destroying \"makara\" with the youthful, life-affirming \"gana\" speaks to two aspects of the Ganges herself. Although she has provided sustenance to millions, she has also brought hardship, injury, and death by causing major floods along her banks. The goddess Ganga is also accompanied by a dwarf attendant, who carries a cosmetic bag, and on whom she sometimes leans, as if for support. (See, for example, frames 1, 2, and 4 above.)\n\nThe \"purna kumbha\" or full pot of water is the second most discernible element of the Ganga iconography. Appearing first also in the relief in Udayagiri Caves (5th century), it gradually appeared more frequently as the theme of the goddess matured. By the seventh century it had become an established feature, as seen, for example, the Dashavatara temple, Deogarh, Uttar Pradesh (seventh century), the Trimurti temple, Badoli, Chittorgarh, Rajasthan, and at the Lakshmaneshwar temple, Kharod, Bilaspur, Chhattisgarh, (ninth or tenth century), and seen very clearly in frame 3 above and less clearly in the remaining frames. Worshipped even today, the full pot is emblematic of the formless Brahman, as well as of woman, of the womb, and of birth. Furthermore, The river goddesses Ganga and Saraswati were both born from Brahma's pot, containing the celestial waters.\n\nIn her earliest depictions at temple entrances, the goddess Ganga appeared standing beneath the overhanging branch of a tree, as seen as well in the Udayagiri caves. However, soon the tree cover had evolved into a \"chatra\" or parasol held by an attendant, for example, in the seventh-century Dasavatara temple at Deogarh. (The parasol can be clearly seen in frame 3 above; its stem can be seen in frame 4, but the rest has broken off.) The cover undergoes another transformation in the temple at Kharod, Bilaspur (ninth or tenth century), where the parasol is lotus-shaped, and yet another at the Trimurti temple at Badoli where the parasol has been replaced entirely by a lotus.\n\nAs the iconography evolved, sculptors in the central India especially were producing animated scenes of the goddess, replete with an entourage and suggestive of a queen en route to a river to bathe. A relief similar to the depiction in frame 4 above, is described in as follows: A typical relief of about the ninth century that once stood at the entrance of a temple, the river goddess Ganga is shown as a voluptuously endowed lady with a retinue. Following the iconographic prescription, she stands gracefully on her composite \"makara\" mount and holds a water pot. The dwarf attendant carries her cosmetic bag, and a ... female holds the stem of a giant lotus leaf that serves as her mistress's parasol. The fourth figure is a male guardian. Often in such reliefs the \"makara\"'s tail is extended with great flourish into a scrolling design symbolizing both vegetation and water.\n\nKumbh Mela is a mass Hindu pilgrimage in which Hindus gather at the Ganges River. The normal Kumbh Mela is celebrated every 3 years, the \"Ardh\" (half) Kumbh is celebrated every six years at Haridwar and Prayag, the \"Purna\" (complete) Kumbh takes place every twelve years at four places (Prayag (Allahabad), Haridwar, Ujjain, and Nashik). The \"Maha\" (great) Kumbh Mela which comes after 12 'Purna Kumbh Melas', or 144 years, is held at Prayag (Allahabad).\n\nThe major event of the festival is ritual bathing at the banks of the river. Other activities include religious discussions, devotional singing, mass feeding of holy men and women and the poor, and religious assemblies where doctrines are debated and standardized. Kumbh Mela is the most sacred of all the pilgrimages. Thousands of holy men and women attend, and the auspiciousness of the festival is in part attributable to this. The sadhus are seen clad in saffron sheets with ashes and powder dabbed on their skin per the requirements of ancient traditions. Some, called \"naga sanyasis\", may not wear any clothes.\n\nThe Ganges and its all tributaries, especially the Yamuna, have been used for irrigation since ancient times. Dams and canals were common in gangetic plain by fourth century BCE. The Ganges-Brahmaputra-Meghna basin has a huge hydroelectric potential, on the order of 200,000 to 250,000 megawatts, nearly half of which could be easily harnessed. As of 1999, India tapped about 12% of the hydroelectric potential of the Ganges and just 1% of the vast potential of the Brahmaputra.\n\nMegasthenes, a Greek ethnographer who visited India during third century BCE when Mauryans ruled India described the existence of canals in the gangetic plain. Kautilya (also known as Chanakya), an advisor to Chandragupta Maurya, the founder of Maurya Empire, included the destruction of dams and levees as a strategy during war. Firuz Shah Tughlaq had many canals built, the longest of which, , was built in 1356 on the Yamuna River. Now known as the Western Yamuna Canal, it has fallen into disrepair and been restored several times. The Mughal emperor Shah Jahan built an irrigation canal on the Yamuna River in the early 17th century. It fell into disuse until 1830, when it was reopened as the Eastern Yamuna Canal, under British control. The reopened canal became a model for the Upper Ganges Canal and all following canal projects.\n\nThe first British canal in India—with no Indian antecedents—was the Ganges Canal built between 1842 and 1854.\nContemplated first by Col. John Russell Colvin in 1836, it did not at first elicit much enthusiasm from its eventual architect Sir Proby Thomas Cautley, who balked at idea of cutting a canal through extensive low-lying land in order to reach the drier upland destination. However, after the Agra famine of 1837–38, during which the East India Company's administration spent Rs. 2,300,000 on famine relief, the idea of a canal became more attractive to the Company's budget-conscious Court of Directors. In 1839, the Governor General of India, Lord Auckland, with the Court's assent, granted funds to Cautley for a full survey of the swath of land that underlay and fringed the projected course of the canal. The Court of Directors, moreover, considerably enlarged the scope of the projected canal, which, in consequence of the severity and geographical extent of the famine, they now deemed to be the entire Doab region.\n\nThe enthusiasm, however, proved to be short lived. Auckland's successor as Governor General, Lord Ellenborough, appeared less receptive to large-scale public works, and for the duration of his tenure, withheld major funds for the project. Only in 1844, when a new Governor-General, Lord Hardinge, was appointed, did official enthusiasm and funds return to the Ganges canal project. Although the intervening impasse had seemingly affected Cautley's health and required him to return to Britain in 1845 for recuperation, his European sojourn gave him an opportunity to study contemporary hydraulic works in the United Kingdom and Italy. By the time of his return to India even more supportive men were at the helm, both in the North-Western Provinces, with James Thomason as Lt. Governor, and in British India with Lord Dalhousie as Governor-General. Canal construction, under Cautley's supervision, now went into full swing. A long canal, with another of branch lines, eventually stretched between the headworks in Haridwar, splitting into two branches below Aligarh, and its two confluences with the Yamuna (Jumna in map) mainstem in Etawah and the Ganges in Kanpur (Cawnpore in map). The Ganges Canal, which required a total capital outlay of £2.15 million, was officially opened in 1854 by Lord Dalhousie. According to historian Ian Stone: It was the largest canal ever attempted in the world, five times greater in its length than all the main irrigation lines of Lombardy and Egypt put together, and longer by a third than even the largest USA navigation canal, the Pennsylvania Canal.\n\nA major barrage at Farakka was opened on 21 April 1975, It is located close to the point where the main flow of the river enters Bangladesh, and the tributary Hooghly (also known as Bhagirathi) continues in West Bengal past\nKolkata. This barrage, which feeds the Hooghly branch of the river by a long feeder canal, and its water flow management has been a long-lingering source of dispute with Bangladesh. Indo-Bangladesh Ganges Water Treaty signed in December 1996 addressed some of the water sharing issues between India and Bangladesh.\n\nTehri Dam was constructed on Bhagirathi River, tributary of the Ganges. It is located 1.5 km downstream of Ganesh Prayag, the place where Bhilangana meets Bhagirathi. Bhagirathi is called Ganges after Devprayag. Construction of the dam in an earthquake prone area was controversial.\n\nBansagar Dam was built on the Son River, a tributary of the Ganges for both irrigation and hydroelectric power generation. Ganga flood waters along with Brahmaputra waters can be supplied to most of its right side basin area along with central and south India by constructing a coastal reservoir to store water on the Bay of Bengal sea area.\n\nThe Ganges Basin with its fertile soil is instrumental to the agricultural economies of India and Bangladesh. The Ganges and its tributaries provide a perennial source of irrigation to a large area. Chief crops cultivated in the area include rice, sugarcane, lentils, oil seeds, potatoes, and wheat. Along the banks of the river, the presence of swamps and lakes provide a rich growing area for crops such as legumes, chillies, mustard, sesame, sugarcane, and jute. There are also many fishing opportunities along the river, though it remains highly polluted. Also the major industrial towns of Unnao, Kanpur, situated on the banks of the river with the predominance of tanning industries add to the pollution.\n\nTourism is another related activity. Three towns holy to Hinduism—Haridwar, Prayag (Allahabad), and Varanasi—attract thousands of pilgrims to its waters to take a dip in the Ganges, which is believed to cleanse oneself of sins and help attain salvation. The rapids of the Ganges also are popular for river rafting, attracting adventure seekers in the summer months. Also, several cities such as Kanpur, Kolkata and Patna have developed riverfront walkways along the banks to attract tourists.\n\nHuman development, mostly agriculture, has replaced nearly all of the original natural vegetation of the Ganges basin. More than 95% of the upper Gangetic Plain has been degraded or converted to agriculture or urban areas. Only one large block of relatively intact habitat remains, running along the Himalayan foothills and including Rajaji National Park, Jim Corbett National Park, and Dudhwa National Park. As recently as the 16th and 17th centuries the upper Gangetic Plain harboured impressive populations of wild Asian elephants (\"Elephas maximus\"), Bengal tigers (\"Panthera t. tigris\"), Indian rhinoceros (\"Rhinoceros unicornis\"), gaurs (\"Bos gaurus\"), barasinghas (\"Rucervus duvaucelii\"), sloth bears (\"Melursus ursinus\") and Indian lions (\"Panthera leo persica\"). In the 21st century there are few large wild animals, mostly deer, wild boars, wildcats, and small numbers of Indian wolves, golden jackals, and red and Bengal foxes. Bengal tigers survive only in the Sundarbans area of the Ganges Delta. The Sundarbands freshwater swamp ecoregion, however, is nearly extinct. Threatened mammals in the upper Gangetic Plain include the tiger, elephant, sloth bear, and four-horned antelope (\"Tetracerus quadricornis\").\n\nMany types of birds are found throughout the basin, such as myna, \"Psittacula\" parakeets, crows, kites, partridges, and fowls. Ducks and snipes migrate across the Himalayas during the winter, attracted in large numbers to wetland areas. There are no endemic birds in the upper Gangetic Plain. The great Indian bustard (\"Ardeotis nigriceps\") and lesser florican (\"Sypheotides indicus\") are considered globally threatened.\n\nThe natural forest of the upper Gangetic Plain has been so thoroughly eliminated it is difficult to assign a natural vegetation type with certainty. There are a few small patches of forest left, and they suggest that much of the upper plains may have supported a tropical moist deciduous forest with sal (\"Shorea robusta\") as a climax species.\n\nA similar situation is found in the lower Gangetic Plain, which includes the lower Brahmaputra River. The lower plains contain more open forests, which tend to be dominated by \"Bombax ceiba\" in association with \"Albizzia procera\", \"Duabanga grandiflora\", and \"Sterculia vilosa\". There are early seral forest communities that would eventually become dominated by the climax species sal (\"Shorea robusta\"), if forest succession was allowed to proceed. In most places forests fail to reach climax conditions due to human causes. The forests of the lower Gangetic Plain, despite thousands of years of human settlement, remained largely intact until the early 20th century. Today only about 3% of the ecoregion is under natural forest and only one large block, south of Varanasi, remains. There are over forty protected areas in the ecoregion, but over half of these are less than . The fauna of the lower Gangetic Plain is similar to the upper plains, with the addition of a number of other species such as the smooth-coated otter (\"Lutrogale perspicillata\") and the large Indian civet (\"Viverra zibetha\").\n\nIt has been estimated that about 350 fish species live in the entire Ganges drainage, including several endemics. In a major 2007–2009 study of fish in the Ganges basin (including the river itself and its tributaries, but excluding the Brahmaputra and Meghna basins), a total of 143 fish species were recorded, including 10 non-native introduced species. The most diverse orders are Cypriniformes (barbs and allies), Siluriformes (catfish) and Perciformes (perciform fish), each comprising about 50%, 23% and 14% of the total fish species in the drainage.\n\nThere are distinct differences between the different sections of the river basin, but Cyprinidae is the most diverse throughout. In the upper section (roughly equalling the basin parts in Uttarakhand) more than 50 species have been recorded and Cyprinidae alone accounts for almost 80% those, followed by Balitoridae (about 15.6%) and Sisoridae (about 12.2%). Sections of the Ganges basin at altitudes above above sea level are generally without fish. Typical genera approaching this altitude are \"Schizothorax\", \"Tor\", \"Barilius\", \"Nemacheilus\" and \"Glyptothorax\". About 100 species have been recorded from the middle section of the basin (roughly equalling the sections in Uttar Pradesh and parts of Bihar) and more than 55% of these are in family Cyprinidae, followed by Schilbeidae (about 10.6%) and Clupeidae (about 8.6%). The lower section (roughly equalling the basin in parts of Bihar and West Bengal) includes major floodplains and is home to almost 100 species. About 46% of these are in the family Cyprinidae, followed by Schilbeidae (about 11.4%) and Bagridae (about 9%).\n\nThe Ganges basin supports major fisheries, but these have declined in recent decades. In the Allahabad region in the middle section of the basin, catches of carp fell from 424.91 metric tons in 1961–1968 to 38.58 metric tons in 2001–2006, and catches of catfish fell from 201.35 metric tons in 1961–1968 to 40.56 metric tons in 2001–2006. In the Patna region in the lower section of the basin, catches of carp fell from 383.2 metric tons to 118, and catfish from 373.8 metric tons to 194.48. Some of the fish commonly caught in fisheries include catla (\"Catla catla\"), golden mahseer (\"Tor putitora\"), tor mahseer (\"Tor tor\"), rohu (\"Labeo rohita\"), walking catfish (\"Clarias batrachus\"), pangas catfish (\"Pangasius pangasius\"), goonch catfish (\"Bagarius\"), snakeheads (\"Channa\"), bronze featherback (\"Notopterus notopterus\") and milkfish (\"Chanos chanos\").\n\nThe Ganges basin is home to about 30 fish species that are listed as threatened with the primary issues being overfishing (sometimes illegal), pollution, water abstraction, siltation and invasive species. Among the threatened species is the critically endangered Ganges shark (\"Glyphis gangeticus\"). Several fish species migrate between different sections of the river, but these movements may be prevented by the building of dams.\n\nThe main sections of the Ganges River are home to the gharial (\"Gavialis gangeticus\") and mugger crocodile (\"Crocodylus palustris\"), and the delta is home to the saltwater crocodile (\"C. porosus\"). Among the numerous aquatic and semi-aquatic turtles in the Ganges basin are the northern river terrapin (\"Batagur baska\"; only in the lowermost section of the basin), three-striped roofed turtle (\"B. dhongoka\"), red-crowned roofed turtle (\"B. kachuga\"), black pond turtle (\"Geoclemys hamiltonii\"), Brahminy river turtle (\"Hardella thurjii\"), Indian black turtle (\"Melanochelys trijuga\"), Indian eyed turtle (\"Morenia petersi\"), brown roofed turtle (\"Pangshura smithii\"), Indian roofed turtle (\"Pangshura tecta\"), Indian tent turtle (\"Pangshura tentoria\"), Indian flapshell turtle (\"Lissemys punctata\"), Indian narrow-headed softshell turtle (\"Chitra indica\"), Indian softshell turtle (\"Nilssonia gangetica\"), Indian peacock softshell turtle (\"N. hurum\") and Cantor's giant softshell turtle (\"Pelochelys cantorii\"; only in the lowermost section of Ganges basin). Most of these are seriously threatened.\n\nThe river's most famed fauna is the freshwater Ganges river dolphin (\"Platanista gangetica gangetica\"), which has been declared India's national aquatic animal.\n\nThis dolphin used to exist in large schools near to urban centres in both the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers, but is now seriously threatened by pollution and dam construction. Their numbers have now dwindled to a quarter of their numbers of fifteen years before, and they have become extinct in the Ganges' main tributaries. A recent survey by the World Wildlife Fund found only 3,000 left in the water catchment of both river systems.\n\nThe Ganges river dolphin is one of only five true freshwater dolphins in the world. The other four are the baiji (\"Lipotes vexillifer\") of the Yangtze River in China, now likely extinct; the Indus river dolphin of the Indus River in Pakistan; the Amazon river dolphin of the Amazon River in South America; and the Araguaian river dolphin (not considered a separate species until 2014) of the Araguaia–Tocantins basin in Brazil. There are several marine dolphins whose ranges include some freshwater habitats, but these five are the only dolphins who live only in freshwater rivers and lakes.\n\nThe Tibetan Plateau contains the world's third-largest store of ice. Qin Dahe, the former head of the China Meteorological Administration, said that the recent fast pace of melting and warmer temperatures will be good for agriculture and tourism in the short term; but issued a strong warning:\n\nIn 2007, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), in its Fourth Report, stated that the Himalayan glaciers which feed the river, were at risk of melting by 2035. The IPCC has now withdrawn that prediction, as the original source admitted that it was speculative and the cited source was not a peer reviewed finding. In its statement, the IPCC stands by its general findings relating to the Himalayan glaciers being at risk from global warming (with consequent risks to water flow into the Gangetic basin). Many studies have suggested that the climate change will affect the water resources in the Ganges river basin including increased summer (monsoon) flow, and peak runoff could result in an increased risk of flooding.\n\nThe Ganges suffers from extreme pollution levels, caused by the 400 million people who live close to the river. Sewage from many cities along the river's course, industrial waste and religious offerings wrapped in non-degradable plastics add large amounts of pollutants to the river as it flows through densely populated areas. The problem is exacerbated by the fact that many poorer people rely on the river on a daily basis for bathing, washing, and cooking. The World Bank estimates that the health costs of water pollution in India equal three percent of India's GDP. It has also been suggested that eighty percent of all illnesses in India and one-third of deaths can be attributed to water-borne diseases.\n\nVaranasi, a city of one million people that many pilgrims visit to take a \"holy dip\" in the Ganges, releases around 200 million litres of untreated human sewage into the river each day, leading to large concentrations of faecal coliform bacteria. According to official standards, water safe for bathing should not contain more than 500 faecal coliforms per 100ml, yet upstream of Varanasi's ghats the river water already contains 120 times as much, 60,000 faecal coliform bacteria per 100 ml.\n\nAfter the cremation of the deceased at Varanasi's ghats the bones and ashes are thrown into the Ganges. However, in the past thousands of uncremated bodies were thrown into the Ganges during cholera epidemics, spreading the disease. Even today, holy men, pregnant women, people with leprosy/chicken pox, people who have been bitten by snakes, people who have committed suicide, the poor, and children under 5 are not cremated at the ghats but are left to float free, in order to decompose in the waters. In addition, those who cannot afford the large amount of wood needed to incinerate the entire body, leave behind a lot of half burned body parts.\n\nAfter passing through Varanasi, and receiving 32 streams of raw sewage from the city, the concentration of fecal coliforms in the river's waters rises from 60,000 to 1.5 million, with observed peak values of 100 million per 100 ml. Drinking and bathing in its waters therefore carries a high risk of infection.\n\nBetween 1985 and 2000, Rs. 10 billion, around US$226 million, or less than 4 cents per person per year, were spent on the Ganga Action Plan, an environmental initiative that was \"the largest single attempt to clean up a polluted river anywhere in the world.\" The Ganga Action Plan has been described variously as a \"failure\", a \"major failure\".\n\nAccording to one study, \nThe Ganga Action Plan, which was taken on priority and with much enthusiasm, was delayed for two years. The expenditure was almost doubled. But the result was not very appreciable. Much expenditure was done over the political propaganda. The concerning governments and the related agencies were not very prompt to make it a success. The public of the areas was not taken into consideration. The releasing of urban and industrial wastes in the river was not controlled fully. The flowing of dirty water through drains and sewers were not adequately diverted. The continuing customs of burning dead bodies, throwing carcasses, washing of dirty clothes by washermen, and immersion of idols and cattle wallowing were not checked. Very little provision of public latrines was made and the open defecation of lakhs of people continued along the riverside. All these made the Action Plan a failure.\n\nThe failure of the Ganga Action Plan, has also been variously attributed to \"environmental planning without proper understanding of the human–environment interactions,\" Indian \"traditions and beliefs,\" \"corruption and a lack of technical knowledge\" and \"lack of support from religious authorities.\"\n\nIn December 2009 the World Bank agreed to loan India US$1 billion over the next five years to help save the river. According to 2010 Planning Commission estimates, an investment of almost Rs. 70 billion (Rs. 70 billion, approximately US$1.5 billion) is needed to clean up the river.\n\nIn November 2008, the Ganges, alone among India's rivers, was declared a \"National River\", facilitating the formation of a National Ganga River Basin Authority that would have greater powers to plan, implement and monitor measures aimed at protecting the river.\n\nIn July 2014, the Government of India announced an integrated Ganges-development project titled \"Namami Ganga\" and allocated 2,037 crore for this purpose.\n\nIn March 2017 the High Court of Uttarakhand declared the Ganges River a legal \"person\", in a move that according to one newspaper, \"could help in efforts to clean the pollution-choked rivers.\" , the ruling has been commented on in Indian newspapers to be hard to enforce, that experts do not anticipate immediate benefits, that the ruling is \"hardly game changing,\" that experts believe \"any follow-up action is unlikely,\" and that the \"judgment is deficient to the extent it acted without hearing others (in states outside Uttarakhand) who have stakes in the matter.\"\n\nThe incidence of water-borne and enteric diseases—such as gastrointestinal disease, cholera, dysentery, hepatitis A and typhoid—among people who use the river's waters for bathing, washing dishes and brushing teeth is high, at an estimated 66% per year.\n\nRecent studies by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) say that the river is so full of killer pollutants that those living along its banks in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Bengal are more prone to cancer than anywhere else in the country. Conducted by the National Cancer Registry Programme under the ICMR, the study throws up shocking findings indicating that the river is thick with heavy metals and lethal chemicals that cause cancer. According to Deputy Director General of NCRP A. Nandkumar, the incidence of cancer was highest in the country in areas drained by the Ganges and stated that the problem would be studied deeply and with the findings presented in a report to the health ministry.\n\nApart from that, many NGOs have came forward to rejuvenate river Ganga. Vikrant Tongad, an Environmental specialist from SAFE Green filed a petition against Simbhaoli Sugar Mill (Hapur UP) to NGT. NGT slapped a fine of Rs. 5 crore to Sugar Mill also, a fine of 25 Lakhs to Gopaljee Dairy for discharging untreated effluents into the Simbhaoli drain.\n\nAlong with ever-increasing pollution, water shortages are getting noticeably worse. Some sections of the river are already completely dry. Around Varanasi, the river once had an average depth of , but in some places, it is now only .\n\nIllegal mining in the Ganges river bed for stones and sand for construction work has long been a problem in Haridwar district, Uttarakhand, where it touches the plains for the first time. This is despite the fact that quarrying has been banned in Kumbh Mela area zone covering 140 km area in Haridwar.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8032596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8032596", "title": "Gasoline and diesel usage and pricing", "text": "Gasoline and diesel usage and pricing\n\nThe usage and pricing of gasoline (or \"petrol\") results from factors such as crude oil prices, processing and distribution costs, local demand, the strength of local currencies, local taxation, and the availability of local sources of gasoline (supply). Since fuels are traded worldwide, the trade prices are similar. The price paid by consumers largely reflects national pricing policy. Some regions, such as Europe and Japan, impose high taxes on gasoline (petrol); others, such as Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, subsidize the cost. Western countries have among the highest usage rates per person. The largest consumer is the United States, which used an average of 368 million US gallons (1.46 gigalitres) each day in 2011.\n\nIn 2008 a report by Cambridge Energy Research Associates stated that 2007 had been the year of peak gasoline usage in the United States, and that record energy prices would cause an \"enduring shift\" in energy consumption practices. According to the report, in April fuel consumption had been lower than a year before for the sixth straight month, suggesting 2008 would be the first year US usage declined in 17 years. The total annual distance driven in the US began declining in 2006.\n\nThe average price per US gallon in 2012 () was $3.618 (96¢/L), the highest ever for a year. , the average price of gasoline was $3.298/gal (87¢/L), with New York at $3.70/gal (98¢/L) for the highest in the US, and Colorado at $2.987/gal (79¢/L) for the lowest.\n\nFinished motor gasoline amounts to 44% of the total US consumption of petroleum products. This corresponds to 18.5 exajoules per year. , the cost of crude oil accounted for 62% of the cost of a gallon of gasoline in the United State while refining accounted for just 12%. Taxes and distribution/marketing accounted for 12% and 14% respectively.\n\nAfter Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita, gas prices started rising. They became record high levels. In terms of the aggregate economy, increases in crude oil prices significantly predict the growth of real gross domestic product (GDP), but increases in natural gas prices do not.\nAfter the damages from the hurricanes ran up gas prices. By 30 August, a day after Katrina’s landfall, prices in the spot market, which typically include a premium above the wellhead price, had surged past $11 per gigajoule ($12 per million British thermal units), and on 22 September 2005, the day before Rita’s landfall, the spot price had risen to $14/GJ ($15 per million BTU).\n\nIn the fifteen years prior to the 1973 oil crisis, gasoline prices in the U.S. had lagged well behind inflation.\n\nCrude oil is the greatest contributing factor when it comes to the price of gasoline. This includes the resources it takes for exploration, to remove it from the ground, and transport it. Between 2004 and 2008, there was an increase in fuel costs due in large part to a worldwide increase in demand for crude oil. Prices leapt from , causing a corresponding increase in gas prices. On the supply side, OPEC (or the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries) has a great deal to do with the price of gasoline, both in the United States and around the world. The speculation of oil commodities can also affect the gasoline market.\n\nTaxes are the next biggest contributor to gasoline prices at around 12%. In the United States, both state and federal taxes apply to gasoline. In addition, other taxes may be placed on gas including applicable state sales taxes, gross receipts taxes, oil inspection fees, underground storage tank fees and other miscellaneous environmental fees.\n\nDistribution and marketing makes up the remaining 5%. The price of transporting crude oil to a refinery then gasoline to a point of distribution is passed on to the consumer. In addition the price to market the fuel brand is passed on.\n\nAside from this breakdown, many other factors affect gasoline prices. Extreme weather, war or natural disaster in areas where oil is produced can also in turn raise the price of a gallon of gasoline. Legislation by several states for cleaner burning fuel also affects certain areas' prices of gasoline.\n\nBalance between supply and demand directly affects the price of gasoline. U.S. consumption of gasoline follows a seasonal pattern, where every year it is more expensive during the summer months when more people are driving. The long-term trend of consumption has been to increase year over year since 1950, with dips around the introduction of corporate average fuel economy standards and the 1979 energy crisis, the early 1990s recession and Gulf War, and the Great Depression.\n\nMost European countries have high fuel taxes. The prices have traditionally been three to four times the price in the United States, with prices during 2000–2005 of €1.00/litre (about US$1.42/L or $5.40/US gallon) while the US had prices around $1.50/gal or $0.40/L.\nAfter a large increase until the summer of 2008, the end of 2008 experienced a strong decline linked with a sharp economic downturn, with the average price of fuel in the US at $1.613/gal (29 December 2008). However, the price of fuel in Europe is still more than double the US price at $1.85/litre. Russia and some neighboring countries have a much smaller tax, with fuel prices similar to the US.\n\nCompetitive petrol pricing in the UK is led by supermarkets with their own forecourts. Generally each supermarket tends to match the other's prices; the lead players being Asda, Tesco, Sainsbury's and Morrisons. In recent years the AA has criticized the speculators as being the prime reason for fuel fluctuations in the UK.\n\nA number of countries subsidize the cost of petrol/gasoline and other petroleum products. Subsidies make transport of people and goods cheaper, but discourage fuel efficiency. In some countries, the soaring cost of crude oil since 2003 has led to these subsidies being cut, moving inflation from the government debt to the general populace, sometimes resulting in political unrest.\n\nFuel subsidies are common in oil-rich nations. Countries with subsidized fuel include United States of America, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Egypt, Burma, Kuwait, Bahrain, Trinidad and Tobago, Brunei and Bolivia.\n\nIn February 2010, the Iranian government implemented an energy price reform by which the energy subsidies were to be removed in five years; the most important price hike was in gasoline, as the price went up from 100 rials ($0.10 US) to 400 rials ($0.40 US) per litre, with a ration of 100 litres per month for private passenger cars (later reduced to 60 litres per month).\n\nOn 26 December 2010, the Bolivian government issued a decree removing subsidies which had fixed petrol/gasoline and diesel prices for the past seven years. Arguing that illegal exports (contraband) of gasoline and diesel fuel to neighboring countries by individuals for personal profit was harming the economy, Bolivia eliminated the subsidies and raised gasoline prices as much as 83%. After widespread labor strikes, the Bolivian government canceled all future planned price hikes.\n\nVenezuela used to have the cheapest gasoline in the world for decades, however on 19 February 2016 president Nicolás Maduro used decree powers to raise fuel prices by 6000%. This was the first rise in petrol prices in 20 years and he also set in place a sharp devaluation of the currency which he said aimed to shore up the country's failing economy, hard hit by falling oil prices which make up 95% of foreign income. Prices at the pump in Venezuela jumped as much as 6,086% for 95 octane gasoline, from 0.097 bolivars to 6 bolivars.\n\nThe Iranian government introduced an energy price reform in February 2010. The reform was brought forward by the government and approved with some changes by the parliament. The major aim of the policy was to slow down the increasing trend of energy consumption in Iran by removing the energy subsidies. The plan included electricity, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel subsidies. According to the plan, all energy prices were to increase by 20 percent annually. The price reform was particularly important in gasoline, as consumption had been increasing dramatically creating a huge burden on government budget. Furthermore, to meet demand, Iran had to import gasoline from other countries, which made the country vulnerable to possible sanctions by the US and European countries. The gas price prior to reform was $0.10 US per liter with the quota of 100 liters per month per passenger car. The reform raised the price to $0.40 US per liter and later reduced the ration to 60 liters per month. The price for over-quota consumption and the imported cars were $0.70 US per liter. The energy price reform included a cash-rebate program through which each person received 455,000 rials ($15 US) per month from the government. The overall consumption of gasoline after the reform decreased from about 65 million liters per day to about 54 million liters per day.\n\nThe price of gasoline based on the official USD to IRR rate is 0.29 USD/Litre in 2018 which is the second cheapest price in the world after Venezuela. \n\nOn 1 January 2012, the Nigerian government headed by president Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, tried to cease the subsidy on petrol and deregulate the oil prices by announcing the new price for petrol as USD 0.88/litre from the old subsidised price of USD 0.406/litre (LAGOS), which in areas distant from Lagos petrol was priced at USD 1.25/litre. This led to the longest general strike (eight days), riots, Arab spring like protests and on 16 January 2012 the government capitulated by announcing a new price of USD 0.60/litre with an envisaged price of USD 2.0/litre in distant areas. In May 2016 the Buhari administration increased fuel prices again to NGN 145 per litre ($0.43 at black market rates for the currency).\n\nPEMEX, a government company in charge of selling oil in Mexico is subsidized by the Mexican government. This serves to quell inflationary pressures in Mexico. Mexico buys much of its gasoline and diesel from the United States and resells it at US$98 per barrel. Many residents of US border communities cross the border to buy fuel in Mexico, thereby enjoying a cheaper fuel subsidy at the expense of Mexican taxpayers. This has caused frequent supply shortages at a number of filling stations along the border for Mexican drivers, especially truck and bus drivers who use diesel.\n\nIn 2017, Mexico ended its oil industry subsidies, leading to increased prices and widespread protests throughout the country.\n\nTrinidad and Tobago through its national energy agencies Petrotrin and Trinidad and Tobago National Petroleum Marketing Company Limited (NP) offers petroleum fuels at varying subsidised prices to the users within the country. Unleaded Gasoline is offered at two grades - Ron 91 at US$0.43/Litre and Ron 95 at US$0.91/Litre. Diesel is offered at US$0.24/Litre making this fuel some of the cheapest in the world.\n\nThere are an estimated 791,086 cars in the country as at February 2015 and they consume 1.2 billion litres of liquid fuel annually\nThe Government of Trinidad and Tobago spent an estimated US$173.2 million in subsidies for gasoline and diesel in half year period October 2014 - March 2015.\n\nThe oil industry receives subsidies through the United States tax code, which include Percentage Depletion Allowance, Domestic Manufacturing Tax Deduction, the Foreign Tax Credit and Expensing Intangible Drilling Costs. It is estimated that these tax deductions are worth $4 billion annually and are currently being debated by the government for reform. Although such subsidies exist, the sale of fuel is also taxed at rates that far exceed the sales tax rates for other goods, to help pay for bridge and road repair. It is thus unclear whether the tax impact on fuel is a net subsidy or not.\n\nToday, PDVSA, Venezuelan state-owned company, spends US$1.7 billion in direct costs of importation of gasoline, and subsidizes all sales of gasoline in the internal Venezuelan market. The sale price of gasoline is US$0.015 per liter, on a fixed price in the local currency that has been in effect since 1997. Given the low price of gasoline, it is distributed free of charge to gas stations.\n\nIn March 2005, Indonesia increased the price of gasoline and diesel by 29%, causing widespread protests. The price of gasoline was raised from Rp (US$0.20) per litre to Rp 2,400 (US$0.25) per litre, while diesel rose from Rp 1,650 (US$0.18) to Rp 2,100 (US$0.23). Prices were increased again in October to Rp (US$0.48) a litre, for gasoline, while diesel was increased to Rp 4,300 (US$0.46), and kerosene, used for cooking, increased from Rp 700 (US$0.08) to Rp 2,000 (US$0.22) per litre. The price increases came as oil prices threatened to increase the government's oil subsidy to US$14 billion per year, and caused further protests.\n\nWith oil reaching over US$145 a barrel, Indonesia further increased prices on 24 May 2008 to Rp 6,000 (approx. US$0.65) per litre, and diesel to Rp 5,500 (approx. US$0.60) per litre, while kerosene was raised to Rp 2,500 (approx. US$0.28), moves which caused widespread protests. In addition, it was suggested that private car owners, who are wealthy in Indonesian terms, would eventually be excluded from subsidies entirely, with the cheap fuel limited to public transport and motorcycles.\n\nIn June 2013, the government raised the price of low-octane gasoline 44% to 6,500 rupiah ($0.66) per liter and of diesel 22% to 5,500 rupiah per liter to help close a widening budget deficit. The move caused violent protest in some areas.\n\nFurthermore, in November 18, 2014, the new government led by President Joko Widodo reallocated the government subsidy for gasoline and diesel into nation's infrastructure, education and health budget, hence raised the price of subsidized gasoline and diesel by Rp 2,000 each, so the price of gasoline and diesel became Rp 8,500 and Rp 7,500 respectively. This decision created inflation and protest throughout the archipelago.\n\nPeople have been encouraged to switch to LPG for cooking, as Indonesia is the world's largest exporter, whereas its oil industry is in decline, and it is now a net importer.\n\nMalaysia had been subsidising gasoline since 1983 and recently had been spending US$6.7 billion on subsidising gasoline, diesel and gas each year. On 5 June 2008 gasoline prices increased by 40% to MYR2.70/litre (US$3.30 a gallon), from MYR1.92/litre (US$2.32 a gallon). Diesel prices rose by MYR1.00/litre to MYR2.58 (US$3.04 per gallon), a 63% increase. It was announced that price increases were planned to bring fuel prices in line with global market cost, suggesting that it may hit US$3.80 per gallon by August. The Malaysian government has also announced a one-off cash rebate of MYR625 per year to Malaysian citizens who own cars with an engine capacity of 3,000 cc or less and MYR200 tax rebate to cars with an engine capacity of 3,000 cc and above to offset the increased costs. The government introduced a temporary ban on buying fuel within 50 km of the country border, but the ban was suspended following a price increase on 7 June 2008 for petrol of 41% (to MYR2.70 a litre) and for diesel of 63% (to MYR2.58).\n\nOn 22 June 2008, the Malaysian government announced plans to set up separate pumps at its border petrol stations to sell fuel to foreigners at market rates so that only locals can benefit from subsidised petrol. The new pumps will target Singaporeans and Thais who make day trips across the border to fill their tanks with cheaper fuel there, although Singapore-registered cars must have their tanks at least three-quarters full before they will be permitted to leave Singapore in any case. Petrol stations within of the country's northern border with Thailand or southern border with Singapore would be affected. Recently, the fuel price has dropped to MYR 2.45 and it has dropped for the second time. A further reduction was made on 1 November 2008. RON97 petrol was reduced from MYR2.30 per litre (MYR8.7/US gal) to MYR2.15 a litre, RON92 petrol from MYR2.20 to MYR2.05 a litre (MYR8.3/US gal to MYR7.8/US gal), and diesel from MYR2.20 to MYR2.05 per litre The Government revealed that it had ceased subsidizing petrol as of 1 November 2008 when the price of oil dipped below US$65 per barrel. However subsidies were still being paid for diesel and natural gas.\n\nOn 18 November 2008, the Malaysian government made further reductions in the price of gasoline cut pump prices by seven per cent to MYR2.00 ringgit per litre and diesel by 15 sen to MYR1.90 per litre. The government said that at current prices they were making about 30 sen per litre in sales. Then again on 3 December, petrol prices were reduced further. Gasoline prices were reduced 10 sen to MYR 1.90 per litre and as for diesel, they were reduced 10 sen to MYR 1.80 per litre. On 16 December 2008 the price of RON97 petrol was reduced further to MYR1.80, while RON92 is selling at MYR1.70 per litre (MYR6.4/US gal). The pump price of diesel was also reduced to MYR1.70 a litre.\n\nFrom 1 September 2009 however, the price for RON97 increased to MYR2.05, while RON92 has been discontinued and replaced with RON95, at a price of MYR1.80. On 16 July 2010, petrol prices across the board was raised by 5 sen, which brought the prices of RON95, RON97 and diesel to MYR1.85, MYR2.10 and MYR1.75 per litre respectively. Since then, RON97 floats with government controlled revision reflecting the global crude oil prices. only Malaysian-registered petrol vehicles may purchase RON95 fuel; foreign-registered vehicles (mainly from Singapore and Thailand) by law can only purchase RON97 (or diesel) at Malaysian service stations.\n\nOn 1 April 2011, RON97 increased from MYR2.50 to MYR2.70. In May 2011, RON97 further increased to MYR2.90, another record high for RON97 in Malaysia. A drop of MYR0.10 in June 2011 brings it to MYR2.80 per litre, the first price reduction since RON97 was floated at market rates.\n\nOn 3 September 2013, the price for RON 95 increased from MYR1.90 to MYR2.10, RON97 from MYR2.70 to MYR2.85, and diesel from MYR1.80 to MYR2.00. This was further increased on 2 October 2014, whereby RON 95 would cost MYR2.30 and diesel would cost MYR2.20 per litre. Starting on 1 December 2014, Malaysia abolished fuel subsidies and began using a managed float system, in order to control the country's large current account deficit.\n\nSee fuel tax for tax information by country.\n\nThe Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (German Agency for International Cooperation) (GIZ) has published a list of worldwide gasoline prices by country every year since 1991. The results for 2010/2011 can be seen in this document. Two week updates for European countries can be consulted at the website of the Touring Club Switzerland.\n\nUp to date prices for gasoline (unleaded) are available at http://www.globalpetrolprices.com/gasoline_prices/\n\nWide protests on petrol price hikes have been frequent in the last 4–5 years. On 24 May 2012 the petrol price was hiked by ₹7.50, resulting prices in the range of ₹73 - 82 all over the country.\nOpposition had declared a bandh on 31 May 2012 across the country to protest against the price hike, which evoked mixed response, amid incidents of stone pelting, arson and road blockades in some parts of the country.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "62140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62140", "title": "Geography of Somalia", "text": "Geography of Somalia\n\nSomalia is a country located in the Horn of Africa. It is bordered by Ethiopia to the west, Djibouti to the northwest, the Gulf of Aden to the north, the Indian Ocean and Guardafui Channel to the east, and Kenya to the southwest. With a land area of 637,657 square kilometers, Somalia's terrain consists mainly of plateaus, plains and highlands. Its coastline is more than 3,333 kilometers in length, the longest of mainland Africa and the Middle East. It has been described as being roughly shaped \"like a tilted number seven\".\n\nIn the far north, the rugged east-west ranges of the Ogo Mountains lie at varying distances from the Gulf of Aden coast. Hot conditions prevail year-round, along with periodic monsoon winds and irregular rainfall. Geology suggests the presence of valuable mineral deposits.\n\nDue to Somalia's proximity to the equator, there is not much seasonal variation in its climate. However, there are some very unpredictable rainfalls that occur sometimes. Hot conditions prevail year-round along with monsoon (periodic seasonal reversing wind accompanied by corresponding changes in precipitation) winds and irregular rainfall. Mean daily maximum temperatures range from , except at higher elevations and along the eastern seaboard, where the effects of a cold offshore current can be felt. In Mogadishu, for instance, average afternoon highs range from to in April. Some of the highest mean annual temperatures in the world have been recorded in the country; Berbera on the northwestern coast has an afternoon high that averages more than from June through September. Nationally, mean daily minimums usually vary from about . The greatest range in climate occurs in northern Somalia, where temperatures sometimes surpass in July on the littoral plains and drop below the freezing point during December in the highlands. In this region, relative humidity ranges from about 40 percent in the mid-afternoon to 85 percent at night, changing somewhat according to the season.\n\nUnlike the climates of most other countries at this latitude, conditions in Somalia range from arid in the northeastern and central regions to semiarid in the northwest and south. In the northeast, annual rainfall is less than ; in the central plateaus, it is about . The northwestern and southwestern parts of the nation, however, receive considerably more rain, with an average of falling per year. Although the coastal regions are hot and humid throughout the year, the hinterland is typically dry and hot.\n\nMost of the country receives less than of rain annually, and a large area encompassing the northeast and much of northern Somalia receives as little as . Certain higher areas in the north, however, record more than a year, as do some coastal sites. The southwest receives . Generally, rainfall takes the form of showers or localized torrential rains and is extremely variable. Mean daily maximum temperatures throughout the country range from , except at higher elevations and along the Indian Ocean coast. Mean daily minimum temperatures vary from to more than . Northern Somalia experiences the greatest temperature extremes, with readings ranging from below freezing in the highlands in December to more than in July in the coastal plain skirting the Gulf of Aden. The north's relative humidity ranges from about 40 percent in midafternoon to 85 percent at night, varying somewhat with the season. During the colder months, December to February, visibility at higher elevations is often restricted by fog. Temperatures in the south are less extreme, ranging from about . The hottest months are February through April. Coastal readings are usually five to ten degrees cooler than those inland. The coastal zone's relative humidity usually remains about 70 percent even during the dry seasons.\n\nThere are four main seasons around which pastoral and agricultural life revolve, and these are dictated by shifts in the wind patterns. From December to March is the \"Jilal\", the harshest dry season of the year. The main rainy season, referred to as the \"Gu\", lasts from April to June. This period is characterized by the southwest monsoons, which rejuvenate the pasture land, especially the central plateau, and briefly transform the desert into lush vegetation. From July to September is the second dry season, the \"Xagaa\" (pronounced \"Hagaa\"). The \"Dayr\", which is the shortest rainy season, lasts from October to December. The \"tangambili\" periods that intervene between the two monsoons (October–November and March–May) are hot and humid.\n\nPhysio-graphically, Somalia is a land of limited contrast. In the north, a maritime semidesert plain parallels the Gulf of Aden coast, varying in width from roughly twelve kilometers in the west to as little as two kilometers in the east. Scrub-covered, this plain, known as the Guban (scrub land), is crossed by broad, shallow watercourses that are beds of dry sand except in the rainy seasons. When the rains arrive, the vegetation, which is a combination of low bushes and grass clumps, is quickly renewed, and for a time the guban provides some grazing for nomad livestock. This coastal strip is part of the Ethiopian xeric grasslands and shrublands ecoregion.\n\nInland from the gulf coast, the plain rises to the precipitous northward-facing cliffs of the dissected highlands. These form the rugged Karkaar mountain ranges that extend from the northwestern border with Ethiopia eastward to the tip of the Horn of Africa, where they end in sheer cliffs at Caseyr. The general elevation along the crest of these mountains averages about 1,800 meters above sea level south of the port town of Berbera, and eastward from that area it continues at 1,800 to 2,100 meters almost to Caseyr. The country's highest point, Shimber Berris, which rises to 2,460 meters, is located near the town of Erigavo.\n\nSouthward the mountains descend, often in scarped ledges, to an elevated plateau devoid of perennial rivers. This region of broken mountain terrain, shallow plateau valleys, and usually dry watercourses is known to the Somalis as the Ogo.\n\nIn the Ogo's especially arid eastern part, the plateau—broken by several isolated mountain ranges—gradually slopes toward the Indian Ocean and in central Somalia constitutes the Mudug Plain. A major feature of this eastern section is the long and broad Nugaal Valley, with its extensive network of intermittent seasonal watercourses. The Nugaal river enters the Indian Ocean at Eyl. The eastern area's population consists mainly of pastoral nomads eking a living in a zone of low and erratic rainfall.\n\nThe western part of the Ogo plateau region is crossed by numerous shallow valleys and dry watercourses. Annual rainfall is greater than in the east, and there are flat areas of arable land that provide a home for dryland cultivators. Most important, the western area has permanent wells to which the predominantly nomadic population returns during the dry seasons. The western plateau slopes gently southward and merges imperceptibly into an area known as the Haud, a broad, undulating terrain that constitutes some of the best grazing lands for Somali nomads, despite the lack of appreciable rainfall more than half the year. Enhancing the value of the Haud are the natural depressions that during periods of rain become temporary lakes and ponds.\n\nThe Haud zone continues for more than sixty kilometers into Ethiopia, and the vast Somali Plateau, which lies between the northern Somali mountains and the highlands of southeast Ethiopia, extends south and eastward through Ethiopia into central and southwest Somalia. The portion of the Haud lying within Ethiopia was the subject of an agreement made during the colonial era. In 1948, under pressure from their World War II allies and to the dismay of the Somalis, the British \"returned\" the Haud (an important Somali grazing area that was presumably 'protected' by British treaties with the Somalis in 1884 and 1886) and the Ogaden to Ethiopia, based on an 1897 treaty in which the British ceded Somali territory to the Ethiopian Emperor Menelik in exchange for his help against plundering by Somali clans. Britain included the proviso that the Somali nomads would retain their autonomy, but Ethiopia immediately claimed sovereignty over them. This prompted an unsuccessful bid by Britain in 1956 to buy back the Somali lands it had turned over. The stretch of land has since been a considerable source of regional strife.\n\nSouthwestern Somalia is dominated by the country's only two permanent rivers, the Jubba and the Shabeelle. With their sources in the Ethiopian highlands, these rivers flow in a generally southerly direction, cutting wide valleys in the Somali Plateau as it descends toward the sea; the plateau's elevation falls off rapidly in this area. The adjacent coastal zone, which includes the lower reaches of the rivers and extends from the Mudug Plain to the Kenyan border, averages 180 meters above sea level.\n\nThe Jubba River enters the Indian Ocean at Kismaayo. Although the Shabeelle River at one time apparently also reached the sea near Merca, its course is thought to have changed in prehistoric times. The Shabeelle now turns southwestward near Balcad (about thirty kilometers north of Mogadishu) and parallels the coast for more than eighty-five kilometers. The river is perennial only to a point southwest of Mogadishu; thereafter it consists of swampy areas and dry reaches and is finally lost in the sand east of Jilib, not far from the Jubba River. During the flood seasons, the Shabeelle River may fill its bed to a point near Jilib and occasionally may even break through to the Jubba River farther south. Favorable rainfall and soil conditions make the entire riverine region a fertile agricultural area and the center of the country's largest sedentary population.\n\nIn most of northern, northeastern, and north-central Somalia, where rainfall is low, the vegetation consists of scattered low trees, including various acacias, and widely scattered patches of grass. This vegetation gives way to a combination of low bushes and grass clumps in the highly arid areas of the northeast and along the Gulf of Aden.\n\nAs elevations and rainfall increase in the maritime ranges of the north, the vegetation becomes denser. Aloes are common, and on the higher plateau areas of the Ogo are woodlands. At a few places above 1,500 meters, the remnants of juniper forests (protected by the state) and areas of Euphorbia candelabrum (a chandelier-type spiny plant) occur. In the more arid highlands of the northeast, \"Boswellia\" and \"Commiphora\" trees are sources, respectively, of the frankincense and myrrh for which Somalia has been known since ancient times.\n\nA broad plateau encompassing the northern city of Hargeysa, which receives comparatively heavy rainfall, is covered naturally by woodland (much of which has been degraded by overgrazing) and in places by extensive grasslands. Parts of this area have been under cultivation since the 1930s, producing sorghum and maize; in the 1990s it constituted the only significant region of sedentary cultivation outside southwestern Somalia.\n\nThe Haud south of Hargeysa is covered mostly by a semiarid woodland of scattered trees, mainly acacias, underlain by grasses that include species especially favored by livestock as forage. There vegetation forms spatially periodic patterns reminiscent of a tiger skin when viewed from above and therefore knowns as \"tiger bush\". As the Haud merges into the Mudug Plain in central Somalia, the aridity increases and the vegetation takes on a subdesert character. Farther southward the terrain gradually changes to semiarid woodlands and grasslands as the annual precipitation increases.\n\nThe region encompassing the Shabeelle and Jubba rivers is relatively well watered and constitutes the country's most arable zone. The lowland between the rivers supports rich pasturage. It features arid to subarid savanna, open woodland, and thickets that include frequently abundant underlying grasses. There are areas of grassland, and in the far southwest, near the Kenyan border, some dry evergreen forests are found.\n\nAlong the Indian Ocean from Hobyo southwestward to near Mogadishu lies a stretch of dry coastal sand dunes, the Hobyo grasslands and shrublands ecoregion. This area is covered with scattered scrub and grass clumps where rainfall is sufficient although unpredictable. Much of this coast is thinly populated but overgrazing, particularly south of Mogadishu, has resulted in the destruction of the protective vegetation cover and the gradual movement of the once-stationary dunes inland. The original flora of this coast contains a number of endemic species and beginning in the early 1970s, efforts were made to stabilize these dunes by replanting. Endemic mammals are the silver dik-dik (\"Madoqua piacentinii\"), one of the world's smallest antelopes, and the Somali golden mole (\"Calcochloris tytonis\"). Other endemic species include two reptiles, a skink\" Haackgreerius miopus\" and a lizard \"Latastia cherchii\" and two birds, Ash's lark (\"Mirafra ashi\") and the Obbia lark (\"Spizocorys obbiensis\"). The long-term political strife in Somalia has meant the coast is poorly studied and the state of the habitat unknown.\n\nOther vegetation includes plants and grasses found in the swamps into which the Shabeelle River empties most of the year and in other large swamps in the course of the lower Jubba River. Swamps of East African mangroves are found at points along the coast, particularly from Kismaayo to near the Kenyan border. Uncontrolled exploitation appears to have caused some damage to forests in that area. Other mangroves are located near Mogadishu and at a number of places along the northeastern and northern coasts.\n\nLocation:\nHorn of Africa\n\nGeographic coordinates:\nMap references:\nAfrica\n\nArea:\n\"total:\"\n637,657 km (246,600 sq mi)\n\"land:\"\n627,337 km (242,216 sq mi)\n\"water:\"\n10,320 km (3,984 sq mi)\n\nArea - comparative:\nslightly smaller than Texas\n\nLand boundaries:\n\"total:\"\n2,366 km (1,470 mi)\n\"border countries:\"\nDjibouti 60 km (36 mi), Ethiopia 1,626 km (1,010 mi), and Kenya for 682 km (423 mi)\n\nCoastline:\n3,333 km (1,879 mi)\n\nMaritime claims:\n\"territorial sea:\"\nClimate:\nprincipally desert; December to February - northeast monsoon, moderate temperatures in north and very hot in south; May to October - southwest monsoon, torrid in the north and hot in the south, irregular rainfall, hot and humid periods (tangambili) between monsoons\n\nTerrain:\nmostly flat to undulating plateau rising to hills in north\n\nElevation extremes:\n\"lowest point:\"\nIndian Ocean 0 m (0 ft)\n\"highest point:\"\nShimbiris 2,460 m (8,070.9 ft)\n\nNatural resources:\nuranium and largely unexploited reserves of iron ore, tin, gypsum, bauxite, copper, salt, natural gas\n\nLand use:\n\"arable land:\" 1.64%\n\"permanent crops:\" 0.04%\n\"other:\" 98.32% (2005)\n\nIrrigated land: 2,000 km (772 sq mi) (2003)\n\nNatural hazards:\nrecurring droughts; frequent dust storms over eastern plains in summer; floods during rainy season\n\nMan-made hazards:\ndesertification; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; waste dumping; overfishing\n\nInternational environment agreements:\n\"party to:\" Biodiversity, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection\n\"signed, but not ratified:\"\nMarine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban\n\nGeography - note:\nStrategic location on Horn of Africa along southern approaches to Bab el Mandeb and route through Red Sea and Suez Canal. The Provisional Administrative Line forms the \"de facto\" southern border between Somalia and Ethiopia.\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Somalia, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n\n\nSomalia has the longest sea in Africa\n"}
{"id": "18077896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18077896", "title": "Global Energy and Water Cycle Experiment", "text": "Global Energy and Water Cycle Experiment\n\nThe Global Energy and Water Cycle Experiment (GEWEX) is a research program of the World Climate Research Programme intended to observe, comprehend and model the Earth's water cycle. The experiment also observes how much energy the Earth receives, studies how much of that energy reaches surfaces of the Earth and how that energy is transformed. Sunlight's energy evaporates water to produce clouds and rain, and dries out land masses after rain. Rain that falls on land becomes the water budget which can be used by people for agricultural and other processes.\n\nGEWEX is a collaboration of researchers worldwide to find better ways of studying the water cycle and how it transforms energy through the atmosphere. If the Earth's climates were identical from year to year, then people could predict when, where and what crops to plant. However, instability created by solar variation, weather trends, and chaotic events create weather that is unpredictable on seasonal scales. Through weather patterns such as droughts and higher rainfall these cycles impact ecosystems and human activities. GEWEX is designed to collect a much greater amount of data, and see if better models of that data can forecast weather and climate change into the future.\n\nGEWEX is organized into several structures. As GEWEX was conceived projects were organized by participating factions, this task is now done by the International GEWEX Project Office (IGPO). IGPO oversees major initiatives and coordinates between national projects in an effort to bring about communication of researchers. IGPO claims to support communication exchange between 2000 scientist and is the instrument for publication of major reports. The Scientific Steering Group organizes the projects and assigns them to panels, which oversee progress and provide critique. The Coordinated Energy and Water Cycle Observations Project (CEOP) the 'Hydrology Project' is a major instrument in GEWEX. This panel includes geographic study areas such as the Climate Prediction Program for the Americas operated by NOAA, but also examines several types of climate zones (e.g. high altitude and semi-arid). Another panel, the GEWEX Radiation Panel oversees the coordinated use of satellites and ground-based observation to better estimate energy and water fluxes. One recent result GEWEX's Radiation panel has assessed data on rainfall for the last 25 years and determined that global rainfall is 2.61 mm/day with a small statistical variation. While the study period is short, after 25 years of measurement regional trends are beginning to appear. The GEWEX Modeling and Prediction Panel takes current models and analyzes the models when climate forcing phenomena occur (global warming as an example of a 'climate forcing' event). GEWEX is now the core project of WCRP.\n\nPredicting weather change requires accurate data that is collected over many years, and the application of models. GEWEX was conceived to respond to the need for observations of the Earth's radiation budget and clouds. Many preexisting techniques were limited to observations taken from land and populated areas. This ignored the large amount of weather that occurs over the oceans and unpopulated regions, with key data missing from these areas. Since satellites orbiting the earth cover large areas in small time frames, they can better estimate climate where measurements are infrequently taken. GEWEX was initiated by World Climate Research Programme (WCRP) to take advantage of environmental satellites such as TRMM, but now uses information from newer satellites as well as collections land based instruments, such as BSRN. These land based instruments can be used to verify information interpreted from satellite. GEWEX studies the long-term and regional changes in climate with a goal of predicting important seasonal weather patterns and climate changes that occurs over a few years.\n\nThe research interest of GEWEX is to study fluxes of radiation at the Earth's surface, predict seasonal hydration levels of soils and develop accurate models of predicting energy and water budgets around the world. The project sets its goal as to improve, by an order of magnitude, the ability to model and therefore prediction hydration (rainfall and evaporation) patterns GEWEX is linked to other WCRP projects such as Stratospheric Processes and their Role in Climate (SPARC) Project, and the Climate and Cryosphere Project through WCRP. and thus shares information and goals with other WCRP projects. The goal becomes more important with the newer WCRP project, the Coordinated Observation and Prediction of the Earth System.\n\nAside from fluctuations of solar radiation, the sunlight that is transformed by the earth can vary greatly, some have concluded for instance, that ice-ages self-perpetuate once enough ice has accumulated in the polar regions to reflect enough radiation at high elevations to lower the global average temperature, whereas it takes an unusually warm period to reverse this state. Water usage by plants, herbivore activities can change albedo in the temperate and tropical zones. These trends in reflection are subject to change. Some have proposed extrapolating pre-GEWEX information using new information and measurements taken with pre-GEWEX technology. Natural fires, volcanism, and man-made aerosols can alter the amount of radiation reaching the earth. There are oscillations in oceanic currents, such as El-Niño and North Atlantic Oscillation, which alter the parts of the Earth's ice mass and land water availability. The experiment takes a sampling of climate, with some trends lasting a million years, and as paleo-climatology shows, can abruptly change.\n\nGEWEX is being implemented in phases. The first phase comprises information gathering, modeling, predictions, and advancement of observation techniques and is complete. The second phase addresses several scientific questions such as prediction capacity, changes in Earth's water cycle, and impact on water resources.\n\nPhase I (1990–2002), also called the \"Build-Up Phase\", was designed to determine the hydrological cycle and energy fluxes by means of global measurements of atmospheric and surface properties. GEWEX was also designed to model the global hydrological cycle and its impact on the atmosphere, oceans and land surfaces. Phase I processes were to develop the ability to predict the variations of global and regional hydrological processes & water resources, and their response to environmental change. It was also to advance the development of observing techniques, data management, and assimilation systems for operational application to long-range weather forecasts, hydrology, and climate predictions.\n\nDuring Phase I GEWEX projects were divided into the three overlapping sectors.\nCEOP projects interacted with other non-GEWEX projects like CLIVAR and CLiC\n\nThe results of the build-up phase include 15 to 25 years of study, measured the indirect effects of aerosols, compiled a correlated data set, some reductions in uncertainty GEWEX claims the following accomplishments: A long period data set of clouds, rain fall, water vapor, surface radiation, and aerosols with no indication of large global trends, but with evidence of regional variability, models showing increased precipitation, and showed the importance of regional factors, such as water and soil conservation in regional climate change. The Phase I also claims to have produced over 200 publications and 15 review articles.\n\nThe Mississippi watershed was part of the GEWEX Continental scale International Projects and as a result was well situated for the analysis of the Great Flood of 1993 (Mississippi River and Red River water sheds). The coordination between ground sensing observations and satellite information allowed more thorough analysis of events that led up to the flood. Researchers at the Center for Ocean-Land-Atmosphere Studies (COLA) found that upstream soil moisture and a multifold increase of moist air flow from the Gulf of Mexico to the flooded regions was a major factor in excessive rainfall. The Global Land/Atmosphere System Study (GLASS) gave GEWEX investigators the ability to observe soil wetness over much of the worlds surface by correlating observations on the ground with information obtained by satellites. While the ability to show cause is important, the different conditions (soil wetness, global patterns) that were permissive for weather anomalies are the focus of Phase I, gathering information and learning how to use satellite information better.\n\nOne of the biggest impact of the Aerosol analysis has been the demonstration of the fairly large impact of anthropogenic aerosols, smoke patterns, even daily ripples of aerosols can be observed off the coasts of some developing nations and extend hundreds of miles over surrounding oceans. Some have questioned whether this aerosol pollution is partly to blame for long-term drought in places like the African Sahel.\n\nOne critique of the Build-up Phase data and predictions is that there needs to be better error descriptions. The global estimate of rainfall indicates that the confidence range is large relative to possible trends. The number of ground sensing stations (currently around 40) in the BSRN is rather limited for global observation this affected the measurement of aerosols which are regionally dominant. The best measurements of aerosol pollution are obtained when cloud types are identified properly by satellite observation, therefore better cloud sensing strategies and models are need to provide the clearest real time data. Certain projects like GCIP allow have focused on continental scale observations provide better prediction for project areas; however, areas outside these project areas may lag in receiving forecasting improvements. Many of the deficiencies in Phase I are improvement areas within the objectives of Phase II of the project. Currently scientist use NASA Aqua's Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer (AMSR-E) to evaluation soil moisture from space. However, except for focused observations the satellites data is not useful for global weather prediction. The proposed Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity satellite would provide the detail of soil moisture information on a daily basis may provide the data needed for real time forecasting.\n\nPhase II, \"Full Implementation\" (2003–2012) of GEWEX is to \"exploit new capabities\" developed during phase I such as new satellite information and, increasingly, new models. These include changes in the Earth's energy budget and water cycle, contribution of processes in climate feedback, causes of natural variability, predicting changes on a seasonal or annual timescales, and how changes impact water resources. Phase II of is designed to be active models that have use to regional resource managers in real time. Some phases, such as the GAME (GEWEX Asia Monsoon Experiment) are already completed . GEWEX has become an umbrella program for the coordination of studies and experiments around the world. Reports from the phase I are still being produced and it will be some time before the results of the second phase are available. The experiment is still in progress.\n\nThere are three panels in GEWEX: The Coordinated Energy and Water Cycle Observations Project(CEOP), GEWEX Radiation Panel(GRP), and GEWEX Modeling and Prediction Panel(GMPP)\n\nThe Coordinated Energy and Water Cycle Observations Project (CEOP) is the largest of the panel projects. There are several regional project areas most of these are now covered by CEOP\n\nFor CEOP which survey the hydroclimate for southern African (AMMA), Baltic Sea area (BALTEX), North America (CPPA), Eastern Amazonia (LBA), La Plate Basin (LBB), Asia (MAHASRI), Australia (MDB), and Northern Eurasia (NEEPSI). In addition, CEOP coordinates the study of region types, such as cold, high altitude, monsoon, and semiarid climates and collects and formulates modeling on global, regional scale including land surface and surface hydrology modeling. Since GEWEX is an international cooperation it can utilize information from existing and planned satellites.\n\nThe CEOP project has a number of energy budget and water cycle objectives. First is to produce more consistent research with better error definitions. Second is to better determine how energy flux and water cycles involve in feedback mechanisms. Third is to the predictability of important variables and improved parametric analysis to better model these processes. Forth, to collaborate with other hydrological science projects to create tools for assessing the water-system consequences of predictions and global climate change.\n\nGEWEX Radiation panel (GRP) is a collaborative organization with a goal of reviewing theoretical and experimental knowledge of radiative processes within the climate system. Sixty percent of the energy that comes to Earth from the Sun is transformed by the earth. The goals of this collaboration is to determine how energy is transformed as it inevitably is radiated back into space.\n\nGPCP task was to estimate precipitation using satellites that was global including places where people were not present to take measurements. Secondarily the project was tasked with studying regional precipitation on seasonal to between year time scales. As the study period of the project increased past 25 years a third objective was added analyze long-term variation, such as that caused by global warming. Also, in a renewed effort for better data and with more observation satellites, the GPCP, hopes to gain insights to rainfall variation on 'weather'-scale, or 4-hour periods to daily time scales.\n\nThe Precipitation Assessment Group was assigned by the panel to evaluate data on precipitation emphasizing data in the Global Precipitation Climatology Project (GPCP) product (GRP project). The GRP prepares to assimilate data from GPCP diurnal variation data for better estimation of the global precipitation products. The result of 25 years of measurement the global average precipitation rate is 2.61 mm per/day (about 0.1 inch/day) with about 1% uncertainty. The finding suggests there is no significant variation in mean annual rainfall. Regional variation was separated from land and ocean and the land variation of received precipitation was greater than the ocean. Satellites used to train the dataset analysis have the flaw of not having inaccurate measurements of drizzle and snow, and lack measurements in isolated places and over oceans. The rainfall maps show the greatest absolute rainfall error over the tropical oceans in regions with the highest estimated rainfall. The report self-critiques two aspects: the lack of polar-crossing satellites at the beginning of the study and the inability to correlate new information and older information (ground-based measurements). The noticeable trends in the dataset were deemed insignificant with regard to issues like global warming, but some stand-out positive trends over the Indopacific region were notable (Bay of Bengal and Indochina) and negative trends over South Central Africa.\nThe SRB project under NASA/GEWEX took global radiation measurements to determine radiative energy fluxes. The energy that comes from the sun strikes the atmosphere and scatters, clouds and is reflected, the earth or water where heat and light are radiated back into the atmosphere or space. When water is struck heated surface water can evaporate carrying energy back into space through cloud formation and rain. The SRB project measured these processes by measuring fluxes at the Earth's surface, top-of-atmosphere with shortwave (SW) and longwave (LW) radiation.\n\nAt the onset of GEWEX there was inadequate information on how radiation redistributed, both horizontally and vertically.\n\nBSRN is a global system of less than 40 widely spread radiation measuring devices designed to measure changes in radiation at the Earth's surface. The information obtained is stored at the World Radiation Monitoring Center (WRMC) at the ETH (Zurich).\n\nEstablished by Radiation Sciences Program(NASA) and GEWEX in 1998 to analyze satellite and field data to determine the distribution of aerosols, how they are formed, transformed and transported.\n\nThe GEWEX cloud assessment was initiated by the GEWEX Radiation Panel (GRP) in 2005 to evaluate the reliability of available, global, long-term cloud data products, with a special emphasis on ISCCP. \nThe GEWEX modeling and prediction panel (GMPP) is charged with the task of finding better ways to use the data by other projects and other agencies. It oversees GEWEX Atmospheric Boundary Layer Study (GABLS), GEWEX Cloud System Study (GCSS), and Global Land/Atmosphere System Study(GLASS). Climate forcing is a process of study which observes the contribution of irregular events, such a volcano eruption, greenhouse warming, solar variation, fluctuations in the Earth's orbit, long-term variation in the oceans circulation. The GMPP exploits these natural perturbations to test models developed that should predict what happens to global energy and water budgets with the perturbations.\n\nGEWEX Atmospheric Boundary Layer Study (GABLS) is a more recent addition to GEWEX. The study is tasked with understanding the physical properties of the atmospheric boundary layers for better models which include representation of boundary layers.\n\nGEWEX Cloud System Study (GCSS) task is to individualize modeling for different types of cloud systems. GCSS identifies 5 types of cloud systems:boundary layer, cirrus, extra tropical layer, precipitating convective, and polar. These cloud systems are generally too small to be rationalized in large scale climate modeling, this results in inadequate development of equations resulting in greater statistical uncertainty in results. In order to rationalize these process the study observes cloud systems at single fixed positions on earth in order to better estimate their parameters. These four areas are: Azores and Madeira Islands, Barbados, Equatorial Western Pacific, and Atlantic Tropics. The initial data collection is complete, methods developed for land and aircraft based observations can be compared with satellite observations to that better models of cloud system identification can be made at smaller scales.\n\nGlobal Land/Atmosphere System Study(GLASS) tries to understand the impact on land surface parameters on atmosphere. Changes in land as a result of natural and man-made activities results in the ability to alter local climate and affect wind and cloud formation.\n\nThe study period for GEWEX is 22 years, and while some climate oscillations are short, such as El-Nino, some climate oscillations last for decades, such as the North Atlantic Oscillation. Some have proposed extrapolating pre-GEWEX information using new information and measurements taken with pre-GEWEX technology. The MAGS project, located in Northwestern Canada utilized indigenous peoples traditional experiences. In addition, in other parts of the GEWEX study, these oscillations are an aspect of climate forcing, which allow testing of predictions and models. This modeling may be complicated by the fact that the North Atlantic Oscillation in switching state (see graph) as the effects of global warming are becoming more prominent. For example, 2006 and 2007 saw one of the most dramatic declines in Arctic Sea ice, a decline that was largely unpredicted and can shift the late summer albedo in the northern hemisphere. In 2008, sea ice extent decline has backed off from the previous years' trend, and researchers had forecast a strong La Nina event for late 2007 and 2008. However, unexpectedly the surface temperatures in the Eastern Pacific have already begun to rise to El-Nino temperature ranges, indicating the La Nina event may terminate unexpectedly. With this the loss of Northern Polar sea ice has begun to accelerate back toward the earlier trend. Such rapid and unexpected changes in climate-forcing events eventually suggest that modelers need to include parameters such as ocean temperature thermoclines, energy accumulation in the tropical oceans, sea ice extents in the polar regions, land glacial ice retraction in Greenland, and sheet ice and shelf ice remodeling in Antarctica. When multiple climate-forcing influences are acting simultaneously in which one of the events will eventually take dominance, lack of precedents from the past study of similar confluences of events, as well as knowledge of the uncertainty of sensitive 'switches' in the oceanic/atmospheric switches may affect the ability to provide accurate models and predictions. In addition, sampling points may be spread to monitor leading indicators in one common scenario may be useless during an oscillation where the pool of energy shifts to an unmonitored region so that the magnitude of the shift avoids computation.\nAn example of climate-forcing anomalies might be used to describe the events of 1998 to 2002, a strong El-Nino/La Nina cycle. The onset of the cycle can be influenced by global warming, which facilitated a larger increase of warm water in the tropics, rapidly enough that the thermocline was tolerant. A thermocline is a sharp temperature drop at depth; it varies during the year, with location, and over long periods of time. As the thermocline depth increases El-Nino events are more likely; however, during the peak of the event energy is dissipated and the thermocline decreases depth, possibly to below normal levels so the a strong La-Nina event can results. The world's oceans, particularly the depths of the Atlantic, are believed to be a sink for that is adsorbed at the polar regions, as this builds into the Pacific the upwelling and warming of water can bring -rich waters trapped in the cold pressurized bottom layers to the surface. Local increases of occur which allow more heat trapping; the La-Nina may be mild or aborted early in the process. However, if the return of the thermocline has enough momentum it could propel a strong La-Nina event that last for a few years. However, rapid cooling in the Arctic can allow for more trapping and offset release of during La-Nina in a specific area. The Pacific Decadal Anomaly (PDA See image) may influence the source, direction or momentum of rise of the cold water component of the thermocline.\n\nThe critiques at GEWEX can only be thrust at current results, which have added much more information about climate modeling that have created critiques, the major thrust of modeling was originally intended to be part of Phase II which will, after 4 years, produce its results. One of the major critiques of GEWEX phase I was land based measurements, which are now increasing. The other major critique is the inability to capture decadal rainfall events, events that frequently occur over a few hours. Therefore, more measurements documenting shorter time frames may provide essential data for almost continuous data set. Therefore, Phase II is mainly modeling with addition of more data as deemed lacking in Phase I. Many of the critiques above may be compensated for with better data requiring better models including insolation and changes in reflection. The problem with variation in ocean currents, particular with respect to thermocline depths requires more oceanography as part of the project, as with losses of ice and changes of climate on the ice edges.\n\n"}
{"id": "1538307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1538307", "title": "Highveld", "text": "Highveld\n\nThe Highveld (Afrikaans: \"Hoëveld\") is the portion of the South African inland plateau which has an altitude above roughly 1500 m, but below 2100 m, thus excluding the Lesotho mountain regions to the south-east of the Highveld. It is home to some of the country's most important commercial farming areas, as well as its largest concentration of metropolitan centres, especially the Gauteng conurbation, which accommodates one-third of South Africa's population.\n\nThe Highveld constitutes almost the whole of the Free State, and Gauteng Provinces, and portions of the surrounding areas: the western rim of Lesotho, and portions of the Eastern Cape, Northern Cape, North West, Limpopo, and Mpumalanga Provinces of South Africa. The highest part of the Highveld, around 2100 m, is its northeastern well-defined boundary, where the plateau escarpment (the Mpumalanga Drakensberg) separates it from the Mpumalanga Lowveld, (containing, amongst others, the Kruger National Park).Another well defined boundary is to its north where the Magaliesberg separates the Highveld from the Bushveld. The continuation of the Great Escarpment to the south separates the Highveld from KwaZulu-Natal. The south-eastern portion of the Great Escarpment (that portion of the Great Escarpment most commonly referred to as \"the\" Drakensberg) rises to over 3000 m and forms the boundary between KwaZulu-Natal and Lesotho. The latter mountainous region is, however, not generally referred to as Highveld, whose boundary at this point runs just inside the Lesotho-Free State border, about 2000 m. From its eastern boundary, the Highveld slopes gently downwards to be bounded by the Great Karoo to the south, the Kalahari desert to the west, the Bushveld to the north, the Mpumalanga Lowveld to the northeast, KwaZulu-Natal to the east, and the Lesotho Highlands, or Mountains, to the southeast. The Highveld covers an area of almost 400,000 km, or roughly 30% of South Africa's land area.\n\nThe Highveld terrain is generally devoid of mountains, consisting of rolling plains, especially in the Free State, sometimes interrupted by rocky ridges such as the Witwatersrand, the Magaliesberg, and Vredefort Dome. The Vaal River and its tributaries form the main water drainage system of the Highveld. Tributaries of the Orange River drain the most southerly regions of the Highveld.\n\nThe Highveld rainy season occurs in summer, with substantial afternoon thunderstorms being typical occurrences in November, December, and January. Frost occurs in winter.\n\nCities located on the Highveld include Johannesburg, Pretoria, Bloemfontein, Vereeniging, Welkom, Carletonville, and the cities of the West Rand and East Rand. The diamond-mining city of Kimberley lies on the border of the Highveld and the southeastern Kalahari.\n\nAbout half of the gold ever produced in the world has been mined on the Highveld since 1880. The largest deposits are located in the Witwatersrand, which centres on Johannesburg, with smaller deposits in the northern Free State near Welkom and Virginia. The Highveld is also exceedingly rich in diamonds, coal, vanadium, and manganese.\n\nAgriculture on the Highveld is generally dominated by extensive grain production and the grazing of beef cattle, with more intensive production of maize, wheat, sorghum, citrus fruits, groundnuts, sunflowers, and vegetables, occurring in irrigated areas and farmland closer to urban areas. The peat base of the grassland acts as a natural filter, providing sources of clean water.\n\nNaturally occurring vegetation in the Highveld consists of different types of well-established grassland depending on the varying amounts of rainfall across the area: subtropical and temperate grassland, with true savannah not dominating the ecosystem until more tropical latitudes. The major grass species are \"Hyparrhenia hirta\" and \"Sporobolus pyramidalis\" and among these are other grasses and herbs. Trees and shrubs never thrived due to the frequent fires that occurred in the dry season and the heavy grazing (once by wild animals and now by livestock).\n\nThe Highveld is home to a number of endangered animals, including straw-coloured fruit bats; Africa's largest snake, the African rock python (\"Python sebae\"); mountain zebras; and South Africa's national bird, the blue crane (\"Anthropoides paradiseus\"). The only endemic bird species is Botha's lark (\"Spizocorys fringillaris\") and the two endemic mammals - the Free State pygmy mouse (\"Mus orangiae\") and the rough-haired golden mole (\"Chrysospalax villosa\"). As well as the python, other reptiles include the Nile crocodile (\"Crocodylus niloticus\"), Nile monitor (\"Varanus niloticus\"), rock monitor (\"Varanus albigularis\"), and giant girdled lizard or sungazer (\"Smaug giganteus\").\n\nLike so many areas of grassland all over the world, the Highveld is excellent agricultural land and most of the area has been converted for farming. The grassland areas now remaining in the natural state are in various nature reserves, which, although a small portion of the Highveld, are still the largest areas of remaining . The protected areas include Suikerbosrand Nature Reserve, Verloren Valei Nature Reserve, Nooitgedacht Dam Nature Reserve, Bronkhorstspruit Dam Nature Reserve, Vaal Dam Nature Reserve, and Koppies Dam Nature Reserves and Willem Pretorius Game Reserve.\n\n"}
{"id": "29977625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29977625", "title": "History of baptism", "text": "History of baptism\n\nJohn the Baptist, who is considered a forerunner to Christianity, used baptism as the central sacrament of his messianic movement. Christians consider Jesus to have instituted the sacrament of baptism. The earliest Christian baptisms were probably normally by immersion, though other modes may have also been used. By the third and fourth centuries, baptism involved catechetical instruction as well as chrismation, exorcisms, laying on of hands, and recitation of a creed. In the West, Affusion became the normal mode of baptism between the twelfth and fourteenth centuries, though immersion was still practiced into the sixteenth. In the sixteenth century, Martin Luther retained baptism as a sacrament, but Swiss reformer Huldrych Zwingli considered baptism and the Lord's supper to be symbolic. Anabaptists denied the validity of infant baptism, which was the normal practice when their movement started and practiced believer's baptism instead. Several Anabaptist groups, notably the Baptists and Dunkards, have always practiced baptism by immersion as following the Biblical example.\n\nAlthough the term \"baptism\" is not used to describe the Jewish rituals, the purification rites in Jewish laws and tradition, called \"Tvilah\", have some similarity to baptism, and the two have been linked. The \"Tvilah\" is the act of immersion in natural sourced water, called a \"Mikva\" In the Jewish Bible and other Jewish texts, immersion in water for ritual purification was established for restoration to a condition of \"ritual purity\" in specific circumstances. For example, Jews who (according to the Law of Moses) became ritually defiled by contact with a corpse had to use the mikvah before being allowed to participate in the Holy Temple. Immersion is required for converts to Judaism as part of their conversion. Immersion in the mikvah represents a change in status in regards to purification, restoration, and qualification for full religious participation in the life of the community, ensuring that the cleansed person will not impose uncleanness on property or its owners. It did not become customary, however, to immerse converts to Judaism until after the Babylonian Captivity. This change of status by the mikvah could be obtained repeatedly, while Christian baptism, like circumcision, is, in the general view of Christians, unique and not repeatable. Even the so-called rebaptism by some Christian denominations is not seen by them as a repetition of an earlier valid baptism and is viewed by them as not itself repeatable.\n\nDuring the Second Temple period the Greek noun \"baptmos\" was used to refer to ritual washing in Hellenistic Judaism.\n\nJohn the Baptist adopted baptism as the central sacrament in his messianic movement, seen as a forerunner of Christianity.\n\nBaptism has been part of Christianity from the start, as shown by the many mentions in the Acts of the Apostles and the Pauline epistles. Christians consider Jesus to have instituted the sacrament of baptism. How explicit Jesus' intentions were and whether he envisioned a continuing, organized Church is a matter of dispute among scholars.\n\nThere is a scholarly consensus that the earliest Christian baptism was normally by immersion, or at least that this is probable. Some interpret this as meaning total immersion or submersion beneath the water. Among those who take this view are Thomas Schreiner, Everett Ferguson, Di Berardino, Tischler, and Lang Others understand immersion as not necessarily implying submersion beneath the water. Kirsten Marie Hartvigsen distinguishes between immersion and submersion and considers both as possible early-Christian forms of baptism, as does Christian Strecker. Laurie Guy says: \"The church most likely practiced full immersion, partial immersion and affusion at various times and places in the early centuries, with sprinkling being practiced rarely (and probably only for medical reasons) during that time period.\" Robin M. Jensen describes the early Christian baptismal ritual as having for basis \"immersion in water (or a thorough soaking by pouring)\", and describes the primitive, first-century ritual as having encompassed both \"application of water (whether by immersion or by some other means) and an imposition of hands\", adding that \"'Baptism' originally conveyed the sense of water's application (if not also immersion) in its very definition\". Other recent studies that see total immersion (submersion) as not the only form of baptism utilized by early Christians include Steven J. Schloeder, Charles Thomas, Stanley J. Grenz, and also the \"Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church\", and the \"Oxford Dictionary of the Bible\".\n\nThe theology of baptism attained precision in the 3rd and 4th centuries. While instruction was at first given after baptism, believers were given increasingly specific instructions before being baptized, especially in the face of heresies in the 4th century. By the fourth and fifth centuries, baptism had become a several-week-long rite leading up to the actual baptismal washing on Easter. During this time, catechumens attended several meetings of intensive catechetical instruction, often by the bishop himself, and often accompanied by special prayers, exorcisms, and other rites. Catechumens recited the Creed on Holy Saturday to show that they had completed their catechetical instruction. At dawn following the Paschal Vigil starting the night of Holy Saturday, they were taken to the baptistry where the bishop consecrated the water with a long prayer recounting the types of baptisms. The catechumens disrobed, were anointed with oil, renounced the devil and his works, confessed their faith in the Trinity, and were immersed in the font. They were then anointed with chrism, received the laying on of hands, clothed in white, and led to join the congregation in the Easter celebration. By then, postponement of baptism had become general, and a large proportion of believers were merely catechumens (Constantine was not baptized until he was dying); but as baptisms of the children of Christians, using an adaptation of the rite intended for adults, became more common than baptisms of adult converts, the number of catechumens decreased.\n\nAs baptism was believed to forgive sins, the issue of sins committed after baptism arose. Some insisted that apostasy, even under threat of death, and other grievous sins cut one off forever from the Church. As indicated in the writings of Saint Cyprian, others favoured readmitting the \"lapsi\" easily. The rule that prevailed was that they were readmitted only after undergoing a period of penance that demonstrated sincere repentance.\n\nWhat is now generally called the Nicene Creed, longer than the text adopted by the First Council of Nicaea of 325, and known also as the Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed because of its adoption in that form by the First Council of Constantinople in 381, was probably the baptismal creed then in use in Constantinople, the venue of the 381 Council.\n\nWhether the earliest Christians practiced infant baptism, and thus whether modern Christians should do so, has remained a subject of debate between Christian scholars at least since the earliest clear reference to the practice by Tertullian in the early third century. Some claim that Biblical baptism can be interpreted and thus relative, others support the Biblical literal baptism as a public and personal testimony, without intermediaries, in the case of infants that cannot talk for themselves yet.\n\nAgainst Pelagius, Augustine insisted that baptism was necessary for salvation even for virtuous people and for children. The baptismal rite was significantly simplified during the sixth, seventh, and eighth centuries as fewer and fewer of those baptized were converts from paganism. The rite became much less important and was conducted very quickly. Prebaptismal catechesis was abandoned, and baptism was usually conducted shortly after birth.\n\nIn 895, the provincial Council of Tribur commented on the traditional teaching that the triple immersion in baptism was an imitation of Christ for the three days he spent in the tomb, and the rising from the water an imitation of the resurrection of Jesus. The linking of the baptismal immersion in and rising from the water with the burial and resurrection of Jesus arguably goes back to Saint Paul, and the linking of the triple immersion with the three days in the tomb is found in Cyril of Jerusalem (c. 313–86) and Gregory of Nyssa (c. 335 – after 394).\nThe 12th century saw the meaning of the word \"sacrament\" narrowed down and restricted to seven rites, among them that of baptism, while other symbolic rites came to be called \"sacramentals\".\n\nIn the period between the 12th and the 14th centuries, affusion became the usual manner of administering baptism in Western Europe, though immersion continued to be found in some places even as late as the 16th century. Throughout the Middle Ages, there was therefore considerable variation in the kind of facility required for baptism, from the baptismal pool large enough to immerse several adults simultaneously of the 13th century Baptistery at Pisa, to the half-metre deep basin in the 6th century baptistery of the old Cologne Cathedral.\n\nBoth East and West considered washing with water and the Trinitarian baptismal formula necessary for administering the rite. Scholasticism referred to these two elements as the matter and the form of the sacrament, employing terms taken from the then prevailing Aristotelian philosophy. The Catechism of the Catholic Church, while teaching the necessity of both elements, nowhere uses these philosophical terms when speaking of any of the sacraments.\n\nIn the 16th century, Martin Luther considered baptism to be a sacrament. For the Lutherans, baptism is a \"means of grace\" through which God creates and strengthens \"saving faith\" as the \"washing of regeneration\" in which infants and adults are reborn. Since the creation of faith is exclusively God's work, it does not depend on the actions of the one baptized, whether infant or adult. Even though baptized infants cannot articulate that faith, Lutherans believe that it is present all the same. Because it is faith alone that receives these divine gifts, Lutherans confess that baptism \"works forgiveness of sins, delivers from death and the devil, and gives eternal salvation to all who believe this, as the words and promises of God declare.\" In the special section on infant baptism in his Large Catechism, Luther argues that infant baptism pleases God because persons so baptized were reborn and sanctified by the Holy Spirit.\n\nSwiss Reformer Huldrych Zwingli differed with the Lutherans by denying that baptism conveys grace to the baptized. Zwingli identified baptism and the Lord's supper as sacraments, but in the sense of an initiatory ceremony.\nAnabaptists (a word that means \"rebaptizers\") rejected so thoroughly the tradition maintained by Lutherans as well as Catholics that they denied the validity of baptism outside their group. They \"rebaptized\" converts on the grounds that one cannot be baptized without wishing it, and an infant, who does not understand what happens in a baptism ceremony and who has no knowledge of the concepts of Christianity, is not really baptized. They saw as non-biblical the baptism of infants, who cannot confess their faith and who, not having yet committed any sins, are not in the same need of salvation. Anabaptists and other Baptist groups do not consider that they \"re\"baptize those who have been baptized as infants, since, in their view, infant baptism is without effect. The Amish, Restoration churches (Churches of Christ/Christian Church), Hutterites, Baptists, Mennonites and other groups descend from this tradition. Pentecostal, charismatic and most non-denominational churches share this view as well.\n\nIn Reformed baptismal theology, starting with John Calvin, baptism is seen as primarily God's offer of union with Christ and all his benefits to the baptized. This offer is believed to be intact even when it is not received in faith by the person baptized. Baptism also initiates one into the visible church and the covenant of grace.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13471", "title": "Holocene", "text": "Holocene\n\nThe Holocene () is the current geological epoch. It began approximately 11,650 cal years before present, after the last glacial period, which concluded with the Holocene glacial retreat. The Holocene and the preceding Pleistocene together form the Quaternary period. The Holocene has been identified with the current warm period, known as MIS 1. It is considered by some to be an interglacial period within the Pleistocene Epoch.\n\nThe Holocene has seen the growth and impacts of the human species worldwide, including all its written history, development of major civilizations, and overall significant transition toward urban living in the present. Human impacts on modern-era Earth and its ecosystems may be considered of global significance for future evolution of living species, including approximately synchronous lithospheric evidence, or more recently hydrospheric and atmospheric evidence of human impacts. In July 2018, International Union of Geological Sciences split Holocene into three distinct subsections, Greenlandian (11,700 years ago to 8,326 years ago), Northgrippian (8,326 years ago to 4,200 years ago) and Meghalayan (4,200 years ago to the present), as proposed by International Commission on Stratigraphy. The boundary stratotype of Meghalayan is a speleothem in Mawmluh cave in India, and the global auxiliary stratotype is an ice core from Mount Logan in Canada.\n\nThe name \"Holocene\" comes from the Ancient Greek words (\"holos\", whole or entire) and (\"kainos\", new), meaning \"entirely recent\".\n\nIt is accepted by the International Commission on Stratigraphy that the Holocene started approximately 11,650 cal years BP. The Subcommission on Quaternary Stratigraphy quotes Gibbard and van Kolfschoten in Gradstein Ogg and Smith in stating the term 'Recent' as an alternative to Holocene is invalid and should not be used and also observe that the term Flandrian, derived from marine transgression sediments on the Flanders coast of Belgium has been used as a synonym for Holocene by authors who consider the last 10,000 years should have the same stage-status as previous interglacial events and thus be included in the Pleistocene. The International Commission on Stratigraphy, however, considers the Holocene an epoch following the Pleistocene and specifically the last glacial period. Local names for the last glacial period include the Wisconsinan in North America, the Weichselian in Europe, the Devensian in Britain, the Llanquihue in Chile and the Otiran in New Zealand.\n\nThe Holocene can be subdivided into five time intervals, or chronozones, based on climatic fluctuations:\n\nThe Blytt–Sernander classification of climatic periods initially defined by plant remains in peat mosses, is currently being explored. Geologists working in different regions are studying sea levels, peat bogs and ice core samples by a variety of methods, with a view toward further verifying and refining the Blytt–Sernander sequence. They find a general correspondence across Eurasia and North America, though the method was once thought to be of no interest. The scheme was defined for Northern Europe, but the climate changes were claimed to occur more widely. The periods of the scheme include a few of the final pre-Holocene oscillations of the last glacial period and then classify climates of more recent prehistory.\n\nPaleontologists have not defined any faunal stages for the Holocene. If subdivision is necessary, periods of human technological development, such as the Mesolithic, Neolithic, and Bronze Age, are usually used. However, the time periods referenced by these terms vary with the emergence of those technologies in different parts of the world.\n\nClimatically, the Holocene may be divided evenly into the Hypsithermal and Neoglacial periods; the boundary coincides with the start of the Bronze Age in Europe. According to some scholars, a third division, the Anthropocene, has now begun. The International Commission on Stratigraphy Subcommission on Quaternary Stratigraphy’s working group on the 'Anthropocene' (a term coined by Paul Crutzen and Eugene Stoermer in 2000) note this term is used to denote the present time interval in which many geologically significant conditions and processes have been profoundly altered by human activities. The 'Anthropocene' is not a formally defined geological unit.\n\nContinental motions due to plate tectonics are less than a kilometre over a span of only 10,000 years. However, ice melt caused world sea levels to rise about in the early part of the Holocene. In addition, many areas above about 40 degrees north latitude had been depressed by the weight of the Pleistocene glaciers and rose as much as due to post-glacial rebound over the late Pleistocene and Holocene, and are still rising today.\n\nThe sea level rise and temporary land depression allowed temporary marine incursions into areas that are now far from the sea. Holocene marine fossils are known, for example, from Vermont and Michigan. Other than higher-latitude temporary marine incursions associated with glacial depression, Holocene fossils are found primarily in lakebed, floodplain, and cave deposits. Holocene marine deposits along low-latitude coastlines are rare because the rise in sea levels during the period exceeds any likely tectonic uplift of non-glacial origin.\n\nPost-glacial rebound in the Scandinavia region resulted in the formation of the Baltic Sea. The region continues to rise, still causing weak earthquakes across Northern Europe. The equivalent event in North America was the rebound of Hudson Bay, as it shrank from its larger, immediate post-glacial Tyrrell Sea phase, to near its present boundaries.\n\nClimate has been fairly stable over the Holocene. Ice core records show that before the Holocene there was global warming after the end of the last ice age and cooling periods, but climate changes became more regional at the start of the Younger Dryas. During the transition from the last glacial to the Holocene, the Huelmo–Mascardi Cold Reversal in the Southern Hemisphere began before the Younger Dryas, and the maximum warmth flowed south to north from 11,000 to 7,000 years ago. It appears that this was influenced by the residual glacial ice remaining in the Northern Hemisphere until the later date.\n\nThe Holocene climatic optimum (HCO) was a period of warming in which the global climate became warmer. However, the warming was probably not uniform across the world. This period of warmth ended about 5,500 years ago with the descent into the Neoglacial and concomitant Neopluvial. At that time, the climate was not unlike today's, but there was a slightly warmer period from the 10th–14th centuries known as the Medieval Warm Period. This was followed by the Little Ice Age, from the 13th or 14th century to the mid-19th century, which was a period of cooling.\n\nCompared to glacial conditions, habitable zones have expanded northwards, reaching their northernmost point during the HCO. Greater moisture in the polar regions has caused the disappearance of steppe-tundra.\n\nThe temporal and spatial extent of Holocene climate change is an area of considerable uncertainty, with radiative forcing recently proposed to be the origin of cycles identified in the North Atlantic region. Climate cyclicity through the Holocene (Bond events) has been observed in or near marine settings and is strongly controlled by glacial input to the North Atlantic. Periodicities of ≈2500, ≈1500, and ≈1000 years are generally observed in the North Atlantic. At the same time spectral analyses of the continental record, which is remote from oceanic influence, reveal persistent periodicities of 1,000 and 500 years that may correspond to solar activity variations during the Holocene epoch. A 1,500-year cycle corresponding to the North Atlantic oceanic circulation may have had widespread global distribution in the Late Holocene.\n\nAnimal and plant life have not evolved much during the relatively short Holocene, but there have been major shifts in the distributions of plants and animals. A number of large animals including mammoths and mastodons, saber-toothed cats like \"Smilodon\" and \"Homotherium\", and giant sloths disappeared in the late Pleistocene and early Holocene—especially in North America, where animals that survived elsewhere (including horses and camels) became extinct. This extinction of American megafauna has been explained as caused by the arrival of the ancestors of Amerindians; though most scientists assert that climatic change also contributed. In addition, a controversial bolide impact over North America has been hypothesized to have triggered the Younger Dryas.\n\nThroughout the world, ecosystems in cooler climates that were previously regional have been isolated in higher altitude ecological \"islands\".\n\nThe \"8.2 ka event\", an abrupt cold spell recorded as a negative excursion in the record lasting 400 years, is the most prominent climatic event occurring in the Holocene epoch, and may have marked a resurgence of ice cover. It has been suggested that this event was caused by the final drainage of Lake Agassiz, which had been confined by the glaciers, disrupting the thermohaline circulation of the Atlantic. Subsequent research, however, suggested that the discharge was probably superimposed upon a longer episode of cooler climate lasting up to 600 years and observed that the extent of the area affected was unclear.\n\nThe beginning of the Holocene corresponds with the beginning of the Mesolithic age in most of Europe, but in regions such as the Middle East and Anatolia with a very early neolithisation, Epipaleolithic is preferred in place of Mesolithic. Cultures in this period include Hamburgian, Federmesser, and the Natufian culture, during which the oldest inhabited places still existing on Earth were first settled, such as Jericho in the Middle East. There is also evolving archeological evidence of proto-religion at locations such as Göbekli Tepe, as long ago as the 9th millennium BCE.\n\nBoth are followed by the aceramic Neolithic (Pre-Pottery Neolithic A and Pre-Pottery Neolithic B) and the pottery Neolithic. The Late Holocene brought advancements such as the bow and arrow and saw new methods of warfare in North America. Spear throwers and their large points were replaced by the bow and arrow with its small narrow points beginning in Oregon and Washington. Villages built on defensive bluffs indicate increased warfare, leading to food gathering in communal groups for protection rather than individual hunting. In Mesoamerica, transformations of natural environments have been a common feature at least since the mid-Holocene, mostly through the exploitation of wild plants and the establishment of crops.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13022920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13022920", "title": "Laimosphere", "text": "Laimosphere\n\nThe laimosphere is the microbiologically enriched zone of soil that surrounds below-ground portions of plant stems; the laimosphere is analogous to the rhizosphere and spermosphere. The combining form laim- from laimos (Greek: λαιμός) denotes a connecting organ (neck) while -sphere indicates a zone of influence. Topographically, the \"laimosphere\" includes the soil around any portion of subterranean plant organs other than roots where exuded nutrients (especially sugars and amino acids) stimulate microbial activities. Subterranean plant organs with a laimosphere include hypocotyls, epicotyls, stems, stolons, corms, bulbs, and leaves. Propagules of soil-borne plant pathogens, whose germination is stimulated by a plant exudates in the laimosphere, can initiate hypocotyl and stem rots leading to \"damping-off\". Pathogens commonly found to cause such diseases are species of \"Fusarium\", \"Phoma\", \"Phytopthora\", \"Pythium\", \"Rhizoctonia\" and \"Sclerotinia\".\nFig. 1. A diagram denoting the location of the \"laimosphere, rhizosphere,\" and \"spermosphere\" of the subterranean organs of a plant (\"Plant and Soil\" 37:187-190, 1972).\n\nFig. 2. Chlamydospores of \"Fusarium solani f. sp. cucurbitae\" forming in the laimosphere of a squash hypocotyl, Magyarosy 1973.\n\nFig. 3 & 4. Early lesion development in the epidermis of a squash hypocotyl caused by \"Fusarium\" solani stained with tetrazolium salt, Magyarosy 1973.\n\nFig. 5. Diagram of hypocotyl stem rot leading to \"damping-off\" caused by \"Rhizoctonia solani\" (Univ.Calif. Agr. Exp. Sta. Service Manual 23, 1957).\n\n"}
{"id": "1745978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1745978", "title": "Lamproite", "text": "Lamproite\n\nLamproite is an ultrapotassic mantle-derived volcanic or subvolcanic rock. It has low CaO, AlO, NaO, high KO/AlO, a relatively high MgO content and extreme enrichment in incompatible elements.\n\nLamproites are geographically widespread yet are volumetrically insignificant. Unlike kimberlites, which are found exclusively in Archaean cratons, lamproites are found in terrains of varying age, ranging from Archaean in Western Australia, to Palaeozoic and Mesozoic in southern Spain. They also vary widely in age, from Proterozoic to Pleistocene, the youngest known example being 56,000 ± 5,000 years old.\n\nLamproite volcanology is varied, with both diatreme styles and cinder cone or cone edifices known.\n\nLamproites form from partially melted mantle at depths exceeding 150 km. The molten material is forced to the surface in volcanic pipes, bringing with it xenoliths and diamonds from the harzburgitic peridotite or eclogite mantle regions where diamond formation is stabilized.\n\nRecent research, for example on the lamproites at Gaussberg in Antarctica, and lead-lead isotope geochemistry have revealed that the source of lamproites may be transition zone melts of subducted lithosphere which has become trapped at the base of the lithospheric mantle. This observation also reconciles the depth of melting with the peculiar geochemistry, which is most easily explained by melting of already felsic material under deep mantle conditions.\n\nThe mineralogy of lamproites is controlled by their peculiar geochemistry, with a predominance of rare silica-deficient mineral species and rare, mantle-derived minerals predominating.\n\nMinerals typical of lamproites include: \nforsteritic olivine; high iron leucite; titanium-rich aluminium-poor phlogopite; potassium- and titanium-rich richterite; low aluminium diopside; and iron-rich sanidine. A variety of rare trace minerals occur. The rocks are high in potassium with 6 to 8% potassium oxide. High chromium and nickel content is typical. The rocks commonly are altered to talc with carbonate or serpentine, chlorite, and magnetite. Zeolites and quartz may also occur.\n\nLamproites are characterized by the presence of widely varying amounts (5-90 vol.%) of the following primary phases (Mitchell & Bergman, 1991):\n\nThe presence of all the above phases is not required in order to classify a rock as a lamproite. Any one mineral may be dominant, and this, together with the two or three other major minerals present, suffices to determine the petrographic name.\n\nThe presence of the following minerals precludes a rock from being classified as a lamproite: primary plagioclase, melilite, monticellite, kalsilite, nepheline, Na-rich alkali feldspar, sodalite, nosean, hauyne, melanite, schorlomite or kimzeyite.\n\nLamproites conform to the following chemical characteristics:\n\n\nThe economic significance of lamproite became known with the 1979 discovery of the Argyle diamond pipe in Western Australia. This discovery led to the intense study and re-evaluation of other known lamproite occurrences worldwide; previously only kimberlite pipes were considered economically viable sources of diamonds.\n\nThe Argyle diamond mine remains the only economically viable source of lamproite diamonds. This deposit differs markedly by having a high content of diamonds but low quality of most stones. Research at Argyle diamond have shown that most stones are of E-type; they originate from eclogite source rocks and were formed under high temperature ~. The Argyle diamond mine is the main source of rare pink diamonds.\n\nOlivine lamproite pyroclastic rocks and dikes are sometimes hosts for diamonds. The diamonds occur as xenocrysts that have been carried to the surface or to shallow depths by the lamproite diapiric intrusions.\n\nThe diamonds of Crater of Diamonds State Park near Murfreesboro, Arkansas are found in a lamproite host.\n\nLamproites, as a group, were known by a variety of localised names due to the fact their mineralogy is quite variable and because of their rarity often few examples of the following lamproite variants were known. Modern terminology classes all as lamproites but modifies this term with the mineral abundances as per the standard IUGS rules.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3000623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3000623", "title": "List of Banksia species", "text": "List of Banksia species\n\nThis is an alphabetically ordered list of \"Banksia\" species, as of 2007. This list includes all species recognised as current by the Australian Plant Name Index, and also contains all species transferred to \"Banksia\" from \"Dryandra\" by Austin Mast and Kevin Thiele in 2007. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "46176983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46176983", "title": "List of Cyperus species", "text": "List of Cyperus species\n\nThe genus \"Cyperus\" contains the following species recognised by \"The Plant List\".\n"}
{"id": "9012939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9012939", "title": "List of anemone diseases", "text": "List of anemone diseases\n\nThis article is a list of diseases of anemones (\"Anemone coronaria\").\n\n"}
{"id": "44985323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44985323", "title": "List of forests in India", "text": "List of forests in India\n\nThis is an incomplete list of forests in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "9291127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9291127", "title": "List of glaciers in Switzerland", "text": "List of glaciers in Switzerland\n\nThis is a non-exhaustive list of the major glaciers in Switzerland. It contains their surface area, their lengths since the start of measurement and the most current year, their height and their outflow. Most of them are retreating and many will vanish.\n\nAll glaciers are located within the Swiss Alps. Most of them are situated in the Pennine and Bernese Alps. The Jungfrau-Aletsch protected area includes the largest glaciers of the Alps.\n\nThere are glaciers in the four major drainage basins of Switzerland. The Rhine and Rhône basins are located on the northern side of the Alps while the Po basin is located on the south side of the Alps. The Danube basin is located on the east side of the Alps. There are no glaciers in the Swiss portion of the Adige basin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47720729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47720729", "title": "List of hills of the Schönbuch", "text": "List of hills of the Schönbuch\n\nThis list of hills of the Schönbuch contains an almost complete selection of the hills, high points and spurs or subpeaks of the Schönbuch, a forest region in the south German Keuper Uplands, and of the \"Schönbuch Nature Park\" within the German state of Baden-Württemberg.\n\nThe table below is organised in order of height in metres above sea level (NHN), but some of the columns are sortable by clicking on the symbol in the respective header.\n\nThe abbreviations used in the table are explained below.\n\nThe abbreviations used in the table (alphabetically sorted) mean:\n\nThe \"Part of\" column usually gives details of the local nature reserve, which is almost never on the hilltop, but on its sides or at its foot. The area in hectares, height in metres (m) above Normalhöhennull (NHN) and the date of foundation are given.\n\n"}
{"id": "6600189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6600189", "title": "List of stars in Andromeda", "text": "List of stars in Andromeda\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Andromeda, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n"}
{"id": "4593395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4593395", "title": "List of state soil science associations", "text": "List of state soil science associations\n\nThis is a comprehensive list of state-level professional soil science associations in the United States. There is a US Consortium of Soil Science Associations that strives to increase work, communication and corporation between these associations and other soil scientist associations.lun\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nUnited States Consortium of Soil Science Associations\n"}
{"id": "26429211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26429211", "title": "List of the most prominent summits of the United States", "text": "List of the most prominent summits of the United States\n\nThe following sortable table comprises the 200 most topographically prominent mountain peaks of the United States of America.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nDenali is one of only three summits on Earth with more than 6000 meters (19,685 feet) of topographic prominence. Three summits of the United States exceed 4000 meters (13,123 feet), six exceed 3500 meters (11,483 feet), ten exceed 3000 meters (9843 feet), 19 exceed 2500 meters (8202 feet), 45 exceed 2000 meters (6562 feet), 128 ultra-prominent summits exceed 1500 meters (4921 feet), and 264 major summits exceed 1000 meters (3281 feet) of topographic prominence.\n\nOf these 200 most prominent summits of the United States, 84 are located in Alaska, 17 in California, 17 in Nevada, 14 in Washington, 12 in Montana, 11 in Utah, eight in Colorado, seven in Hawaii, seven in Arizona, six in Oregon, four in Wyoming, four in Idaho, three in New Mexico, two in North Carolina, and one each in New Hampshire, New York, Tennessee, and Maine. Four of these peaks lie on the international border between Alaska and British Columbia, four lie on the international border between Alaska and Yukon, and one lies on the state border between Tennessee and North Carolina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25663044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25663044", "title": "List of tidal power stations", "text": "List of tidal power stations\n\nThis page lists most power stations that run on tidal power. Since tidal stream generators are an immature technology, no technology has yet emerged as the clear standard. A large variety of designs are being experimented with, with some very close to large scale deployment. Hence, the following page lists stations of different technologies. \n\nThe following table lists tidal power stations that are in operation as of August 2011.\nThe following table lists tidal power stations that are currently under construction as of the date in each cited source.\nThere are many stations in proposal at the moment. The following table lists tidal power stations that are only at a \"proposal\" stage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2442244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2442244", "title": "Lopingian", "text": "Lopingian\n\nThe Lopingian is the uppermost series/epoch of the Permian. It is the last epoch of the Paleozoic. The Lopingian was preceded by the Guadalupian and followed by the Early Triassic. \n\nThe name was introduced by Amadeus William Grabau in 1931 and derives from Leping, Jiangxi in the then Republic of China. It consists of two stages/ages. The earlier is the Wuchiapingian and the later is the Changhsingian. \n\nThe International Chronostratigraphic Chart (v2018/07) provides a numerical age of 259.1 ±0.5 Ma. If a Global Boundary Stratotype Section and Point (GSSP) has been approved, the lower boundary of the earliest stage determines numerical age of an epoch. The GSSP for the Wuchiapingian has a numerical age of 259.8 ± 0.4 Ma.\n\nThe Lopingian ended with the Permian–Triassic extinction event.\n\n"}
{"id": "7473698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7473698", "title": "Multipoint ground", "text": "Multipoint ground\n\nA multipoint ground is an alternate type of electrical installation that attempts to solve the ground loop and mains hum problem by creating many alternate paths for electrical energy to find its way back to ground. The distinguishing characteristic of a multipoint ground is the use of many interconnected grounding conductors into a loose grid configuration. There will be many paths between any two points in a multipoint grounding system, rather than the single path found in a star topology ground. This type of ground may also be known as a Signal Reference Grid or Ground (SRG) or an Equipotential Ground.\n\nIf installed correctly, it can maintain reference ground potential much better than a star topology in a similar application across a wider range of frequencies and currents.\n\nA multipoint ground system is more complicated to install and maintain over the long term, and can be more expensive to install.\n\nStar topology systems can be converted to multipoint systems by installing new conductors between old existing ones. However, this should be done with care as it can inadvertently introduce noise onto signal lines during the conversion process. The noise can be diminished over time as noisy and failed components are removed and repaired, but some isolation of high current (e.g. motors and lighting) and sensitive low current (e.g. amplifiers and radios) equipment may always be necessary.\n\nA multipoint grounding system can solve several problems, but they must all be addressed in turn. The size of the conductors must be designed to meet the expected load in operations and in lightning protection. The amount of cross bonding, and the topology of the grids, is determined by the expected frequencies in the signals to be carried and the uses the installation will be put to.\n\nA ground grid is provided primarily for safety, and the size of the conductors is probably governed by local building or electrical code. One factor to keep in mind is that since the final grid will have multiple paths to ground, the final system resistance to ground will likely be lower than for a typical star ground. But this does not change the need for adequate conductor size to any given piece of equipment in case of a fault.\n\nLightning protection is provided by bonding the multipoint ground grid to one or more grounding rods under or at the perimeter of the building, and then up to the lightning rods. If the building has significant metal framing elements, these should be bonded to the lightning rods and grounding rods as well.\n\nIf the building has large motors, driving such things as fans, pumps, elevators, etc., these should also be on the multipoint grid. However, they should not be on segments of the grid that will service equipment such as audio amplifiers, small signal radio circuits, computer networks, sensitive electrical instrumentation, etc. Since building two grids into the same building may be prohibitively expensive, a good compromise is to connect the low frequency, high current equipment to the grid at or near the ground rods and entrance transformers, in such a way that their load \nwill not flow across the segment of the grid connected to the low current equipment. Thus the system is still an electrically continuous unit, but motor noise does not impinge directly into signal paths.\n\nThe cross bonding is governed by the frequencies and wavelengths to be protected against. A multipoint ground is at its best when it allows currents of many different frequencies to find a path to ground. If the system is expected to always have no more than main current present, the wavelengths involved at 50 or 60 Hz will cause the system design to become a star topology. But if higher frequencies are present, they need to be closer. In general, the spacing between nodes should be less than 1/8 of the shortest wavelength present. This will guarantee that current can always flow no matter which path it tries to take. If less than 1/8 wavelength node spacing cannot be achieved, then at least include as many cross connects as possible, as closely spaced as possible.\n\n"}
{"id": "50497831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50497831", "title": "Nurali Yusifbayli", "text": "Nurali Yusifbayli\n\nYusifbayli Nurali Adil is deputy chairman of The State Agency on Alternative and Renewable Energy Sources.\n\nYusifbayli Nurali Adil was born on 28 March 1963 in Azerbaijan Republic. In 1980 he joined the Electroenergetics faculty of Kiev Polytechnic Institute (currently Kiev Technical Academy)and graduated in 1986 from that university's \"Electric Systems Cybernetics\" specialty. \nFrom 1986 to 1989 he worked as an electrical engineer in Thermal Power Plant No.1 in Sumgait, heading the electrical department and power plant; from 1989 to 1993 he worked as head dispatcher at \"Azerenergy\" JSC. He continued his activities as a chief, head dispatcher, deputy of chief engineer at \"Azerenergy\" JSC from 1993 to 2001. In 2001–02 he worked as deputy of Head director of \"Azerenergy\" JSC \"Energy transmission\" Production Association. In 2002–09 worked as a chief of Central Dispatch Department.\nIn 2009–12 worked as a director of \"Azerenergy\" JSC \" Azerbaijan Scientific-Research and Design Institute of Power Engineering\". Within this time was chief of dissertation council on \"05.14.02 - Electric power plant and electroenergy systems\" EAC specialty under the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan.\n\nSince 2012 was head advisor of the Ministry of Economy and Industry of the Republic of Azerbaijan, Counselor of the Minister, since 2014 was chief of Strategic Planning Department of the Ministry of Economy and Industry of the Republic of Azerbaijan.\n\nBy decree of the president of the Republic of Azerbaijan on 13 March 2015 was appointed deputy chairman of The State Agency on Alternative and Renewable Energy Sources.\n\nBy decree of CIS Member countries of the president of Electroenergetics Council, dated 20 October 2004, he was given the honorary title \"CIS Honored power engineer\".\n\nBy decree of the president of the Republic of Azerbaijan, dated 19 October 2005, he was given the honorary title -\"honored engineer” of the Republic of Azerbaijan.\n\nHe was awarded with \"Golden Buta\" prize for the activity of the electric power system and the development and improvement of the application of scientific and project issues in 2011.\n\nBy decree of the president of the Republic of Azerbaijan, dated 21 October 2014, he was given the honorary title \"honored scientist\".\n\nHe received his degrees of Candidate of Technical Sciences in 1995 and Doctor of Technical Sciences in Azerbaijan Scientific-Research and Design-Prospecting Power Engineering Institute in 2004.\n\nDoctor of Technical Sciences, professor, author of six books, three Azerbaijan Standard and more than 120 scientific works. Chief editor of International Scientific - production \"ELECTRO-energetics-tecnnics-mechanics+control\" journal. \nHe is deputy chairman of Board on Energy problem of Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences and member of Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), and editorial staff “Power engineering” and \"Applied Mathematics\" journals and other scientific councils of research institutions. Since 1998, engaged in pedagogical activity, since 2003 is Professor of \"Management and Automation\" Chair of Azerbaijan Technical University, and chairman of SAC. \nHis research interests include: reliability and security of power systems, development of national and interstate power grids, SCADA, Smart Grid technology, energy efficiency and safety, renewable energy.\n\nYusifbayli Nurali Adil is married and has two children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17023160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17023160", "title": "Orpheus (ballet)", "text": "Orpheus (ballet)\n\nOrpheus is a thirty-minute neoclassical ballet in three tableaux composed by Igor Stravinsky in collaboration with choreographer George Balanchine in Hollywood, California in 1947. The work was commissioned by the Ballet Society, which Balanchine founded together with Lincoln Kirstein and of which he was Artistic Director. Sets and costumes were created by Isamu Noguchi.\n\nThe original cast consisted of 30 dancers: Orpheus; Eurydice; the Dark Angel of Death; Apollo; the leader of the Furies; the leader of the Bacchantes; eight women Bacchantes; nine women in various roles (Friends to Orpheus, Furies, Pluto, Satyr, and Nature Spirits); and seven men as Lost Souls.\n\nThe action is divided into three tableaux and twelve dance episodes: \n(I. Tableau): Orpheus Weeps for Eurydice; Air de Danse; Dance of the Angel of Death; Interlude. (II. Tableau): Pas des furies; Air de danse (Orphée)/Interlude/Air de danse, conclusion; Pas d’action; Pas de deux; Interlude; Pas d’action. \n(III. Tableau): Apothéose d'Orphée. \n\nThe score is among Stravinsky's most melodious. There is a wide dynamic range (reaching fortississimo, \"fff\", at the moment when the Bacchantes dismember Orpheus); but mostly the orchestra plays quietly, seldom rising above mezzoforte.\n\nThe size of the orchestra is very much \"neo-classical\"; like Beethoven, Stravinsky has scored for double woodwinds (except that, like Beethoven in his 5th Symphony, he has added a piccolo to the two flutes). This economy in the scoring is, like the quiet dynamics that predominate in \"Orpheus\", in stark contrast to the composer's \"The Rite of Spring\" of 35 years before. Beethoven deployed three trombones in his 5th and 9th Symphonies, importing them from the world of operatic music; the use of three trombones then became the normal orchestral practice in the 19th century and up through the present day, but in \"Orpheus\" Stravinsky needs only two. The tuba is missing entirely. Also strikingly different from \"The Rite of Spring\" is the absence of a percussion section and the use of only one timpanist.\n\nThere is an important role for the harp in \"Orpheus\". This has a long tradition in classical music, in which the character of Orpheus is associated with that instrument, by analogy with the Ancient Greek lyre. Two important examples of this may be mentioned: Gluck’s opera \"Orfeo ed Euridice\" and Liszt’s symphonic poem \"Orpheus. \n\nStravinsky's Neoclassicism occasionally extends to parody; one of the most extended examples in his work is to be found in the Air de Danse (Orphée) of the second tableau, in which an elegant \"Siciliana\" for reduced forces of harp, timpani, strings, and oboe duet (with cor anglais replacing one of the oboes after the interlude) evokes a late Baroque concerto. It is interesting to note that Stravinsky also creates a neo-Baroque parody – for a scene that also takes place in Hades – in his \"Perséphone\" of 1934.\n\nThe premiere took place on April 28, 1948, at City Center of Music and Drama, New York, and directly resulted in City Center's chairman, Morton Baum, inviting Balanchine and Kirstein to establish a resident company. The new company was named (or Ballet Society renamed) New York City Ballet and Balanchine remained its ballet master until his death.\n\nThe program for City Ballet's first performance at City Center, conducted by the composer, consisted of \"Orpheus\", \"Concerto Barocco\" and \"Symphony in C\" on October 11, 1948.\n\nNoguchi's rendition of Orpheus' lyre was adopted as – and remains – City Ballet's official symbol.\n\n\n...plus eight women Bacchantes, nine women in various roles (Furies, Pluto, Satyr, Nature Spirits, Friends to Orpheus), and seven men as Lost Souls.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42092389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42092389", "title": "Pandacan oil depot", "text": "Pandacan oil depot\n\nThe Pandacan Oil Depot was a 33-hectare compound in Pandacan, Manila, Philippines. It housed the storage facilities and distribution terminals of three major players in the country's petroleum industry, namely Caltex (a petroleum brand name of Chevron Corporation), Petron, and Shell. The oil depot took its roots from separate establishments by these oil companies.\n\nThe continued operation of the oil depot in a densely populated major city was a subject of various concerns, including its environmental and health impact to the residents of Manila.\n\nShell established facilities in 1914. Caltex began using the Pandacan warehouse depot in 1917, when it started marketing its products in the Philippines. Eleven years later, its Pandacan warehouse depot was converted into a key distribution terminal to bring products to nearby provinces. Petron followed suit in 1922.\n\nThe continued operation of the oil depot in a densely populated major city has been a subject of various concerns, including its environmental and health impact to the residents of the adjacent community surrounding the compound, as well as to the larger Manila population. International standards allow oil depots to operate within a 20-kilometer radius buffer zone, away from residential and commercial establishments which would be directly affected by the facility’s everyday operations and impending accidents in the future.\n\nIn 1997, two Shell oil tankers exploded inside the oil depot complex. In 1999, a pipeline leak was the source of fires in Muntinlupa City, killing one. In January 2008, a tanker burst into flames at the foot of the Nagtahan fly-over. In 2005, the UP College of Medicine at the University of the Philippines Manila conducted the cross-sectional study which found that the number of cases of neurophysical disorders in the area surrounding the area have been progressively increasing. In the same year, a health survey proved that the air surrounding the oil depot contains high levels of benzene, a chemical compound known to increase risks of cancer.\n\nIn July 2010, the leak of the underground pipeline of the First Philippine Industrial Corporation (FPIC), which carries oil from the oil refineries in the province of Batangas to Pandacan, caused the contamination of water bed table at the basement of West Tower Condominium in Bangkal in Makati City.\n\nIn 2013, the Laguna Lake Development Authority (LLDA) General Manager Nereus Acosta fined the operator of the depot with P200,000 daily due to environmental violations in the Pasig River, which runs thru Laguna Lake.\n\nThe Malacañang Palace, the official residence of the President of the Philippines, is only two kilometers away from the depot.\n\nThe Polytechnic University of the Philippines is located directly across from the depots on the banks of the Pasig River.\n\nIn 2001, the Manila City Council passed Ordinance No. 8027 that changed the classification of Pandacan from an industrial to a commercial area. It gave the oil depot six months to cease operating in the area. In 2006, Ordinance No. 8119 ordered the phasing out of hazardous industries in the city, including the depot. In 2009, Ordinance 8027 was upheld by the Supreme Court of the Philippines; while the City Council passed Ordinance No. 8187 to negate the first ordinance. This time, Pandacan was re-classified as a heavy industrial zone, allowing the depot to operate. The ordinance was later ruled by the Supreme Court as invalid.\n\nIn 2012, Ordinance No. 8283 re-classified the area as a high-intensity commercial zone, thus giving the oil depot until 2016 to relocate, but was vetoed by then Mayor Alfredo Lim. The proposal instead was to transfer the facilities to the North Harbor, still in Manila.\n\nShell started dismantling the oil depot in July 2015.By the following month, at least three tanks has been dismantled. The oil depot was later dismantled completely.\n\nIn January 2017, Petron announced that it plans to establish a public market in a property within the site of the former oil depot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11021015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11021015", "title": "Petroleum Administration for Defense Districts", "text": "Petroleum Administration for Defense Districts\n\nThe United States is divided into five Petroleum Administration for Defense Districts, or PADDs. These were created during World War II under the Petroleum Administration for War to help organize the allocation of fuels derived from petroleum products, including gasoline and diesel (or \"distillate\") fuel. Today, these regions are still used for data collection purposes.\n\nThe Petroleum Administration for War was established in 1942 by executive order, and abolished in 1946. The districts are now named for the later Petroleum Administration for Defense which existed during the Korean War. It was established by the Defense Production Act of 1950, then abolished in 1954, with its role taken over by the U.S. Department of Interior's Oil and Gas Division.\n\nFor administrative purposes the US government divides the US into five Petroleum Administration for Defense Districts (PADDs). These were created during World War II to help organize the allocation of fuels, including gasoline and diesel fuel. Today, these regions are still used for data collection purposes.\n\nPADD 1 covers the East Coast of the United States. Due to their location, refineries in the central US have enjoyed cheap domestic tight oil and discounted oil sands production from Canada. Meanwhile, refineries on the East Coast have been forced to buy oil from overseas at higher world prices due to North American pipeline bottlenecks. Five refineries on the US East Coast have been forced to close since 2010, and three more were threatened with closure before they sold at discounted prices. Pipelines are the cheapest and safest method of oil transportation in North America. However, due to the lack of pipelines, East Coast refineries must bring in domestic North Dakota Bakken oil and imported Western Canadian oil sands production by rail. Imports account for the vast majority of PADD 1 refinery feedstock, but only a small portion of it comes from Canada, mostly Canadian Atlantic offshore production. Very little comes from the Canadian oil sands. Most of the refineries can handle only sweet, light crude oil, so even heavy, sour Western Canadian Select would not be a good feedstock. Imports of heavy oil from Western Canada could rise in the next few years via deliveries by rail, but it is unlikely that much oil sands production will be processed there.\n\nPADD 2 covers the Midwestern United States. In recent years, many of the refiners in PADD 2 added coker units to handle heavier Canadian feedstocks to replace declining domestic oil production. Canadian oil was readily available since Canadian oil pipelines from Alberta to Ontario ran through the US Midwest, and it has almost completely backed out competing sources of imported oil due to its lower cost. US Midwest refiners have become by far the largest refiners of Canadian oil sands production. Unexpectedly, North Dakota production also increased because of hydraulic fracturing in the Bakken formation, making ND the second largest US producing state after Texas. Oil production from ND was delivered through the Canadian pipeline system, so the glut of new oil forced feedstock prices to US refineries on the Canadian pipelines down and made them much more profitable than refineries elsewhere in the US or Europe.\n\nPADD 3 (United States Gulf Coast) has half of the oil refining capacity in the US. The vast majority of the refineries are in Texas and Louisiana. Crude oil demand by Gulf Coast refineries was almost in 2012, of which was imported heavy oil.\n\nMost of the Gulf Coast refineries have the capacity to process very heavy crude oils from Venezuela and Mexico. However, exports from those countries has been declining in recent years, and more of Venezuela's exports are going to other countries, notably China. US domestic oil production has been increasing since 2010 due to horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing in tight oil fields, notably the Eagle Ford Formation of Texas. Some Gulf Coast refineries have completely replaced imported light and medium oil with new Texas tight oil. Unfortunately, most of it is too light for the Gulf refineries. Much new US tight oil is being exported to Canada for use as oil sands diluent and returning in blends which are a better feedstock for heavy oil refineries.\n\nFor Canadian oil sands producers this is a chance to back Venezuelan, Mexican, and Arabian heavy oil out of the Gulf Coast market and help achieve North American energy independence. The main problem has been pipeline capacity. As a result of delays in US government approval of the Keystone XL system and other pipelines, only of Canadian crude reached the Gulf Coast in 2012. Since Canadian heavy oil and bitumen was much lower in price than heavy oil from other countries, oil companies started buying up and reversing idle pipelines which used to carry imported oil from the Gulf Coast to the Midwest to carry Canadian oil in the other direction. Canadian exports of oil by rail increased 900% from early 2012 to late 2013. This was more expensive and arguably more hazardous than moving oil by pipeline, but cost-effective for refineries given the lower cost of heavy oil imports from Canada versus other countries.\n\nPADD 4 covers the Rocky Mountain States of the US. Refineries in the region have been in a similar position to Midwest refineries, having access to cheap Canadian imports. Recent increases in North Dakota production has also flooded the market with domestic oil and reduced prices. Although their market volumes have been much less than in other regions, refineries in the Rocky Mountains have generally sold fuel at the lowest prices in the US due to their lower feedstock costs. If Canadian heavy oil continues to be priced at an attractive discount, refineries are expected to continue to take large volumes despite the light crude oil surplus in the region.\n\nPADD 5 (West Coast of the United States) is a large potential market for increasing Canadian oil sands output as production of oil from its historic sources in Alaska and California has declined steeply in recent decades, and it has no pipeline access to new US production in North Dakota or Texas. Imports from countries outside North America have been increasing in volume although most of it is significantly more expensive than Canadian or domestic American oil. Many of the refineries in California and Washington State are capable of processing heavy oil because much of the oil production in California is heavy, as is much imported oil. They have also noted that a mix of 55% North Dakota Bakken oil and 45% Western Canadian Select is a reasonable substitute for badly diminished supplies of Alaska North Slope oil. PADD V is physically disconnected from the pipeline systems of the rest of the United States, but the Trans Mountain Pipeline delivers oil of all types from Alberta across British Columbia to refineries in Washington, which in 2012 processed of imported oil, 60% of which came from Canada. If the Trans Mountain Expansion and Northern Gateway pipelines are completed, total capacity from Western Canada to the West Coast could exceed by 2018.\n\nCalifornia has no pipeline connections that could deliver oil from other producing states or Canada, and in 2012 imported of oil, only 5% of which came from Canada and two-thirds from Saudi Arabia. Canadian (and North Dakota) oil has been much cheaper than Arabian oil so potential exists for delivering oil sands production to California from the West Coasts of British Columbia and Washington by tanker. However, a big question mark hanging over the California refining market is the California Low Carbon Fuel Standard.\n\n"}
{"id": "34317494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34317494", "title": "QED vacuum", "text": "QED vacuum\n\nThe Quantum Electrodynamic Vacuum or QED vacuum is the field-theoretic vacuum of quantum electrodynamics. It is the lowest energy state (the ground state) of the electromagnetic field when the fields are quantized. When Planck's constant is hypothetically allowed to approach zero, QED vacuum is converted to classical vacuum, which is to say, the vacuum of classical electromagnetism.\n\nAnother field-theoretic vacuum is the QCD vacuum of the Standard Model.\n\nThe QED vacuum is subject to fluctuations about a dormant zero average-field condition: Here is a description of the quantum vacuum:\n\nIt is sometimes attempted to provide an intuitive picture of virtual particles based upon the Heisenberg energy-time uncertainty principle:\n(where and are energy and time variations, and the Planck constant divided by 2) arguing along the lines that the short lifetime of virtual particles allows the \"borrowing\" of large energies from the vacuum and thus permits particle generation for short times.\n\nThis interpretation of the energy-time uncertainty relation is not universally accepted, however. One issue is the use of an uncertainty relation limiting measurement accuracy as though a time uncertainty determines a \"budget\" for borrowing energy . Another issue is the meaning of \"time\" in this relation, because energy and time (unlike position and momentum , for example) do not satisfy a canonical commutation relation (such as ). Various schemes have been advanced to construct an observable that has some kind of time interpretation, and yet does satisfy a canonical commutation relation with energy. The many approaches to the energy-time uncertainty principle are a continuing subject of study.\n\nThe Heisenberg uncertainty principle does not allow a particle to exist in a state in which the particle is simultaneously at a fixed location, say the origin of coordinates, and has also zero momentum. Instead the particle has a range of momentum and spread in location attributable to quantum fluctuations; if confined, it has a zero-point energy.\n\nAn uncertainty principle applies to all quantum mechanical operators that do not commute. In particular, it applies also to the electromagnetic field. A digression follows to flesh out the role of commutators for the electromagnetic field.\n\nBecause of the non-commutation of field variables, the variances of the fields cannot be zero, although their averages are zero. The electromagnetic field has therefore a zero-point energy, and a lowest quantum state. The interaction of an excited atom with this lowest quantum state of the electromagnetic field is what leads to spontaneous emission, the transition of an excited atom to a state of lower energy by emission of a photon even when no external perturbation of the atom is present.\n\nAs a result of quantization, the quantum electrodynamic vacuum can be considered as a material medium. It is capable of vacuum polarization. In particular, the force law between charged particles is affected. The electrical permittivity of quantum electrodynamic vacuum can be calculated, and it differs slightly from the simple of the classical vacuum. Likewise, its permeability can be calculated and differs slightly from . This medium is a dielectric with relative dielectric constant > 1, and is diamagnetic, with relative magnetic permeability < 1. Under some extreme circumstances in which the field exceeds the Schwinger limit (for example, in the very high fields found in the exterior regions of pulsars), the quantum electrodynamic vacuum is thought to exhibit nonlinearity in the fields. Calculations also indicate birefringence and dichroism at high fields. Many of electromagnetic effects of the vacuum are small, and only recently have experiments been designed to enable the observation of nonlinear effects. PVLAS and other teams are working towards the needed sensitivity to detect QED effects.\n\nA perfect vacuum is itself only attainable in principle. It is an idealization, like absolute zero for temperature, that can be approached, but never actually realized:\nVirtual particles make a \"perfect\" vacuum unrealizable, but leave open the question of attainability of a \"quantum electrodynamic vacuum\" or QED vacuum. Predictions of QED vacuum such as spontaneous emission, the Casimir effect and the Lamb shift have been experimentally verified, suggesting QED vacuum is a good model for a high quality realizable vacuum. There are competing theoretical models for vacuum, however. For example, quantum chromodynamic vacuum includes many virtual particles not treated in quantum electrodynamics. The vacuum of quantum gravity treats gravitational effects not included in the Standard Model. It remains an open question whether further refinements in experimental technique ultimately will support another model for realizable vacuum.\n\n \\ , </math>\nwhere is the unit vector of , . For a discussion see, \n</ref>\n\n"}
{"id": "12990673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12990673", "title": "SAOCOM", "text": "SAOCOM\n\nSAOCOM (Satélite Argentino de Observación COn Microondas, Spanish for Argentine Microwaves Observation Satellite) is an Earth observation satellite constellation of Argentina's space agency CONAE. The first of two satellites is already orbiting the Earth in a polar orbit, while the second one is planned to be launched in 2019.\n\nThe Argentine microwave observation satellite SAOCOM 1A has been designed, produced, tested and operated by Argentinians within the framework of the National Space Plan. The mission will bring into space a complex Earth observation technology and is one of the most challenging technological projects ever developed in the country.\n\nThe two satellites, SAOCOM 1A and SAOCOM 1B, both are equipped with an L band (about 1.275 GHz) full polarimetric Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) to help predict and monitor the mitigation of natural disasters. Each satellite has a mass of .\n\nThe SAOCOM mission consists of putting into orbit two constellations, SAOCOM 1 and SAOCOM 2, the second series of which will incorporate certain technological advances resulting from the experience of the first. Each constellation is composed of two satellites, called A and B respectively, which are basically similar, due to the need to obtain an adequate revisit of the monitored Earth surface.\nThe SAOCOM satellites, together with four satellites of the Italian Constellation COSMO-SkyMed, belonging to the Italian Space Agency (ASI, in Italian), make up the Italian-Argentine Satellite System for Emergency Management (SIASGE, in Spanish), created by the National Commission for Space Activities (CONAE, in Spanish) and ASI for the benefit of society, emergency management and economic development., but due to delays in the satellites' development, both launches were postponed for 2012 and 2013. Further delays pushed the launch dates back tentatively towards 2014 and 2015. By 2016, SAOCOM 1A was scheduled for launch in December 2016, and SAOCOM 1B in December 2017. In April 2016, the launch dates for 1A and 1B were further pushed back to October 2017 and October 2018. In August 2018, SAOCOM 1A was scheduled for launch on 7 October 2018 and SAOCOM 1B some time in 2019. Both satellites were to be launched on Falcon 9 rockets together with additional secondary payloads.\n\nSAOCOM 1A was launched on 8 October 2018, 02:21 UTC (7 October, 19:21 PDT). The satellite was deployed into a Sun-synchronous orbit. The same orbit is planned to be used for SAOCOM 1B on a 2019 launch.\n\nThe Falcon 9 rocket booster landed as planned at Landing Zone 4 at the Vandenberg Air Force Base, making it SpaceX's first land landing for a launch occurring on the Pacific coast. \n\nThe two satellites, also carry four X band (~9.6 GHz) SAR-equipped COSMO-SkyMed satellites from the Italian Space Agency (ASI), that will form the \"Italian-Argentine System of Satellites for Emergency Management\" (SIASGE) constellation. A successful design review was held at the Argentinian space centre Teófilo Tabanera near the Cordoba City on 16 and 17 October 2012. In May 2015, the two agencies decided to expand the SIAGSE system by adding two additional COSMO-SkyMed satellites and two additional SAOCOM satellites, 2A and 2B. This would raise the SIAGSE constellation total number of satellites to 10.\n\n"}
{"id": "58451979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58451979", "title": "Sea balls", "text": "Sea balls\n\nSea balls are balls of fibrous marine material recorded from the seashore. They vary in size but are all tightly packed balls of up to 7 cm in size. They may occur in hundreds and are composed of plant material probably \"Ammophila arenaria\" (L.) Link along with pieces of plastic, pebbles and sand all rolled together into a ball.\nRecent records are from Dingle Bay in Ireland.\n"}
{"id": "2430727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2430727", "title": "Subsolar point", "text": "Subsolar point\n\nThe subsolar point on a planet is the point at which its sun is perceived to be directly overhead (at the zenith); that is, where the sun's rays strike the planet exactly perpendicular to its surface. It can also mean the point closest to the sun on an astronomical object, even though the sun might not be visible.\nTo an observer on a planet with an orientation and rotation similar to those of Earth, the subsolar point will appear to move westward, completing one circuit around the globe each day, approximately moving along the equator. However, it will also move north and south between the tropics over the course of a year, so it is spiraling like a helix.\n\nThe subsolar point contacts the Tropic of Cancer on the June solstice and the Tropic of Capricorn on the December solstice. The subsolar point crosses the Equator on the March and September equinoxes. \nWhen the point passes through Hawaii, the only U.S. state in which this happens, it is known as Lahaina Noon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1712172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1712172", "title": "Tenorite", "text": "Tenorite\n\nTenorite is a copper oxide mineral with the simple formula CuO. \n\nTenorite occurs in the weathered or oxidized zone associated with deeper primary copper sulfide orebodies. Tenorite commonly occurs with chrysocolla and the copper carbonates, azurite and malachite. The dull grey-black color of tenorite contrasts sharply with the often intergrown blue chrysocolla. Cuprite, native copper and Fe–Mn oxides also occur in this environment.\n\nIn addition to the hydrothermal, tenorite also occurs as a volcanic sublimate from Vesuvius, Campania, and Etna, Sicily, Italy. As a sublimate it occurs with copper chlorides, alkali chlorides and cotunnite. The Vesuvian sublimate occurrence was originally named \"melaconise\" or \"melaconite\" by F. S. Beudant in 1832. \n\nTenorite was named in 1841 after the Italian botanist Michele Tenore (1780–1861).\n\n"}
{"id": "26766978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26766978", "title": "The Life of Vertebrates", "text": "The Life of Vertebrates\n\nThe Life of Vertebrates is a noted biology textbook by John Zachary Young. \n\nThe book grew out of the author's attempt to define what is meant by the life of vertebrates and by the evolution of that life. It combined an account of the embryology, anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, palaeontology, and ecology of all vertebrates and, the author argued, he has attempted via a documentation of the \"central fact of biology, that life goes on\", and to combine the results of the studies of these into a single work in which this continuity is maintained. It has been listed as the Book of A Lifetime by Colin Tudge who argues that the book might help humanity recover its humility and reverence in the face of nature rather than simply inspiring \"awe\".\n"}
{"id": "127368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=127368", "title": "Thomas Cavendish", "text": "Thomas Cavendish\n\nSir Thomas Cavendish (19 September 1560 – May 1592) was an English explorer and a privateer known as \"The Navigator\" because he was the first who deliberately tried to emulate Sir Francis Drake and raid the Spanish towns and ships in the Pacific and return by circumnavigating the globe. While members of Magellan's, Loaisa's, Drake's, and Loyola's expeditions had preceded Cavendish in circumnavigating the globe, it had not been their intent at the outset. His first trip and successful circumnavigation made him rich from captured Spanish gold, silk and treasure from the Pacific and the Philippines. His richest prize was the captured 600 ton sailing ship the Manila Galleon \"Santa Ana\" (also called \"Santa Anna\"). He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth I of England after his return. He later set out for a second raiding and circumnavigation trip but was not as fortunate and died at sea at the age of 31.\n\nCavendish was born in 1560 at Trimley St Martin near Ipswich, Suffolk, England. His father was William Cavendish, a descendant of Roger Cavendish, brother to Sir John Cavendish from whom the Dukes of Devonshire and the Dukes of Newcastle derive their family name of Cavendish.\n\nWhen Thomas Cavendish was 12 he inherited a fortune from his father's estate. At the age of 15 he entered Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, remaining for two years, but did not take a degree. After leaving school at age 17, he spent most of the next 8 years or so in luxurious living. He was a Member of Parliament for Shaftesbury, Dorset, in 1584. In 1585 he sailed with Sir Richard Grenville to aid in the colonization of Roanoke, gaining much valuable experience but losing money on his investments. He was a member of Parliament for Wilton, 1586.\n\nBy July 1586 Spain and England were in a war which would culminate with the Spanish Armada and its threatened invasion of England in 1588. Cavendish determined to follow Sir Francis Drake by raiding the Spanish ports and ships in the Pacific and circumnavigating the globe. After getting permission for his proposed raids, Cavendish built a 120-ton sailing ship, with 18 cannons, named the \"Desire\". He was joined by the 60 ton, 10 cannon, ship \"Content\", and the 40 ton ship \"Hugh Gallant\".\n\nWith his three ships and 123 men he set out from Plymouth, England on 21 July 1586 and reached the Strait of Magellan on 6 January 1587.\n\nHe anchored first at the island of Santa Magdalena near present-day Punta Arenas, Chile. There, in two hours, they killed and salted two barrelfuls of penguins for food. After extensive exploration of the many inlets, labyrinths, and intricate channels of the islands and broken lands of Tierra del Fuego and its environs they emerged from the strait into the Pacific on 24 February and sailed up the coast of South America.\n\nThere on the Pacific coast he sank or captured 9 Spanish ships and looted several towns of quantities of fresh food, supplies and treasure while intentionally sinking the ship \"Hugh Gallant\" to use her crew to replace crew members lost on his other ships. According to Hakluyt's 'Voyages' he raided an island on the coast of Ecuador (probably Isla Puna) but was repulsed with loss by local forces.\n\nA pilot from one of the captured Spanish ships revealed that a Manila galleon was expected in October or November 1587 and usually stopped at Cape San Lucas on the Baja California peninsula before going on to Acapulco. The Manila galleons were restricted by the Spanish Monarch to one or two ships/year and typically carried all the goods accumulated in the Philippines in a year's worth of trading silver, from the Mints in Peru and Mexico, with the Chinese and others, for spices, silk, gold and other expensive goods. In 1587 there were two Manila galleons: the \"San Francisco\" and the \"Santa Ana\". Unfortunately both encountered a typhoon on leaving the Philippines and were wrecked on the coast of Japan. Only the \"Santa Ana\" was salvageable and after repairs resumed her voyage.\nUpon reaching the Gulf of California in October 1587 Cavendish and his two ships put in at an island above Mazatlan where they careened their ships to clean their bottoms and made general repairs. They had to dig wells for water. They sailed for Cape San Lucas on the Baja Peninsula and set up patrols to see if they could spot the Manila galleon. Early on 4 November 1587 one of Cavendish's lookouts spotted the 600 ton galleon manned with over 200 men. After a several hour chase the English ships overhauled the \"Santa Ana\"—which conveniently had no cannons on board, in order to carry the added cargo. After several hours of battle during which Cavendish used his cannon to fire ball and grape shot into the galleon while the Spanish tried to fight back with small arms, the \"Santa Ana\", now starting to sink, finally struck her colours and surrendered.\n\nBecause of the great disparity in size the \"Content\" and \"Desire\" had to pick and choose what rich cargo they wanted to transfer to their ships from the much larger \"Santa Ana\". One hundred and ninety Spaniards (including Sebastián Vizcaíno (1548–1624), later explorer of the California coast), and Filipino crewmen, were set ashore with food and some weapons in a location where they had water and food available. Cavendish kept with him two Japanese sailors, three boys from Manila, a Portuguese traveler familiar with China, and a Spanish pilot (navigator). They loaded all the gold (about 100 troy pounds or 122,000 pesos worth) and then picked through the silks, damasks, musks (used in perfume manufacture), spices, wines, and ship's supplies for what they could carry. Some in Mexico claimed that the total value of the cargo was about 2,000,000 pesos. After setting fire to the \"Santa Ana\", the \"Desire\" and \"Content\" sailed away on 17 November 1587 to begin their voyage across the Pacific Ocean.\n\nWhile burning, the \"Santa Ana\" drifted onto the coast where the Spanish survivors extinguished the flames, re-floated the ship and limped into Acapulco.\n\nThe \"Content\" was never heard from again. The \"Desire\" tried to avoid conflict for the rest of her voyage.\n\nAfter crossing the Pacific Ocean, Cavendish and the \"Desire\" arrived at the island of Guam on 3 January 1588. There he traded iron tools for fresh supplies, water and wood, supplied by the natives. On further landings in the Philippines, Java and other islands, he traded some of his captured linen and other goods for fresh supplies, water and wood, and collected information about the Chinese and Japanese coasts. He hoped to use this information to augment existing English knowledge of the area and for a possible second voyage. His crew of about 48 men replaced their worn out clothing and bedding with uniforms made out of silken damask.\nCavendish attacked Arevalo, the capital of the Spanish settlement in Iloilo at the time in 1587 with the raid giving the town the distinction of being the first Spanish settlement in the Philippines to be attacked by a British pirate. It was also the first recorded British incursion into Philippine waters.\n\nBy 14 May 1588 Cavendish reached the coast of Africa and returned to England by way of the Cape of Good Hope, stopping at the island of Saint Helena for supplies.\n\nOn 9 September 1588 the \"Desire\" sailed into the harbor at Plymouth, England. Later she paraded up the River Thames through London, displaying her new sails of blue damask.\n\nCavendish's first voyage was a huge success both financially and otherwise; Cavendish was not yet 28 at his return. The circumnavigation of the globe had been completed in two years and 49 days, nine months faster than Drake, although, like Drake, Cavendish returned with only one of his ships—the \"Desire\" with a crew of about 48 men. He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth I of England, who was invited to a dinner aboard the \"Desire\". England celebrated both the return of the \"Desire\" and the defeat of the Spanish Armada earlier that year.\n\nCavendish sailed on a second expedition in August 1591, accompanied by the navigator John Davis. They went further south to the Strait of Magellan and then returned to Brazil, where they hid and reprovisioned in Ilhabela and looted Santos and São Vicente. Going further north, they lost most of the crew in a battle against the Portuguese at the Village of Vitória today the capital of the State of Espirito Santo. One abandoned sailor, Anthony Knivet, later wrote about his adventures in Brazil. Cavendish set off across the Atlantic towards Saint Helena with the remainder of the crew, but died of unknown causes at age 31, possibly off Ascension Island in the South Atlantic in 1592. The last letter of Cavendish, written to his executor a few days before his death, accuses John Davis of being a \"villain\" who caused the \"decay of the whole action\". John Davis continued on with Cavendish's crew and ships and discovered the Falkland Islands, before returning to England with most of his crew lost to starvation and illness.\n\nCavendish is the central figure in the historical novel \"Captain for Elizabeth\" by Jan Westcott, which follows the events of his first circumnavigation.\n\nCavendish tobacco, a popular pipe tobacco, is named after Sir Thomas Cavendish\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5584334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5584334", "title": "Vacuum flange", "text": "Vacuum flange\n\nA vacuum flange is a flange at the end of a tube used to connect vacuum chambers, tubing and vacuum pumps to each other. Vacuum flanges are used for scientific and industrial applications to allow various pieces of equipment to interact via physical connections and for vacuum maintenance, monitoring, and manipulation from outside a vacuum's chamber. Several flange standards exist with differences in ultimate attainable pressure, size, and ease of attachment.\n\nThe ISO standard quick release flange is known by the names Quick Flange (QF), Klein Flange (KF) or NW, sometimes also as DN. The KF designation has been adopted by ISO, DIN, and Pneurop. KF flanges are made with a chamfered back surface that are attached with a circular clamp and an elastomeric o-ring that is mounted in a metal centering ring. Standard sizes are indicated by the nominal inner diameter in millimeters for flanges 10 through 50 mm in diameter. Sizes 10, 20 and 32 are less common sizes (see Reynard numbers). Some sizes share their flange dimensions with their respective larger neighbor and use the same clamp size. This means a DN10KF can mate to a DN16KF by using an adaptive centering ring. The same applies for DN20KF to DN25KF and DN32KF to DN40KF.\n\nThe ISO large flange standard is known as LF, LFB, MF or sometimes just ISO flange. As in KF-flanges, the flanges are joined by a centering ring and an elastomeric o-ring. An extra spring-loaded circular clamp is often used around the large-diameter o-rings to prevent them from rolling off from the centering ring during mounting.\n\nThe ISO large flanges come in two varieties. The ISO-K (or ISO LF) flanges are joined with double-claw clamps, which clamp to a circular groove on the tubing side of the flange. The ISO-F (or ISO LFB) flanges have holes for attaching the two flanges with bolts. Two tubes with ISO-K and ISO-F flanges can be joined together by clamping the ISO-K side with single-claw clamps, which are then bolted to the holes on the ISO-F side.\n\nISO large flanges are available in sizes from 63 to 500 mm nominal tube diameter:\n\nSeveral vacuum flange standards exist, and the same flange types are called by different names by different manufacturers and standards organizations.\nCF (ConFlat) flanges use a copper gasket and knife-edge flange to achieve an ultrahigh vacuum seal. The term \"ConFlat\" is a registered trademark of Varian, Inc., so \"CF\" is commonly used by other flange manufacturers. Each face of the two mating CF flanges has a knife edge, which cuts into the softer metal gasket, providing an extremely leak-tight, metal-to-metal seal. Deformation of the metal gasket fills small defects in the flange, allowing Conflat flanges operate down to 10 Torr (10 Pa) pressure. The knife edge is recessed in a groove in each flange. In addition to protecting the knife edge, the groove helps hold the gasket in place, which aligns the two flanges and also reduces gasket expansion during bake-out. For stainless-steel conflat flanges, baking temperatures of 450 °C can be achieved; the temperature is limited by the choice of gasket material. CF flanges are sexless and interchangeable. In North America, flange sizes are given by flange outer diameter in inches, while in Europe and Asia, sizes are given by tube inner diameter in millimeters. Despite the different naming conventions, the actual flanges are the same.\nConFlat gaskets were originally invented by William Wheeler and other engineers at Varian in an attempt to build a flange that would not leak after baking.\n\nA Wheeler flange is a large wire-seal flange often used on large vacuum chambers.\n\nANSI has a flange standard called ASA. These flanges are elastomeric o-ring seal and can be used for both vacuum and pressure applications. Flange sizes are indicated by tube nominal inner diameter or by flange outer diameter (in inches): 1 (4.25 O.D.), 1.5 (5.00 O.D.), 2 (6.00 O.D.), 3 (7.50 O.D.), 4 (9.00 O.D.), 6 (11.00 O.D.), 8 (13.5 O.D.), 10 (16.00 O.D.).\n\nTo achieve a vacuum seal, a gasket is required. An elastomeric o-ring gasket can be made of Buna rubber, viton fluoropolymer, silicone rubber or teflon. O-rings can be placed in a groove or may be used in combination with a centering ring or as a \"captured\" o-ring that is held in place by separate metal rings. Metal gaskets are used in ultra-high vacuum systems where the outgassing of the elastomer could be a significant gas load. A copper ring gasket is used with conflat flanges. Metal wire gaskets made of copper, gold or indium can be used.\n\nA vacuum feedthrough is a flange that contains a vacuum-tight electrical, physical or mechanical connection to the vacuum chamber. An electrical feedthrough allows voltages to be applied to components under vacuum, for example a filament or heater. An example of a physical feedthrough is a vacuum-tight connection for cooling water. A mechanical feedthrough is used for rotation and translation of components under vacuum. A wobble stick is a mechanical feedthrough device that can be used to pick up, move and otherwise manipulate objects in the vacuum chamber.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2839597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2839597", "title": "Xiaoman", "text": "Xiaoman\n\nThe traditional East Asian calendars divide a year into 24 solar terms. Xiǎomǎn, \"Shōman\", \"Soman\", or \"Tiểu mãn\" is the 8th solar term. It begins when the Sun reaches the celestial longitude of 60° and ends when it reaches the longitude of 75°. It more often refers in particular to the day when the Sun is exactly at the celestial longitude of 60°. In the Gregorian calendar, it usually begins around 21 May and ends around 5 June (6 June East Asia time).\n"}
{"id": "50842320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50842320", "title": "Çilingoz Nature Park", "text": "Çilingoz Nature Park\n\nÇilingoz Nature Park () is a nature park located in Çatalca district of Istanbul Province, Turkey.\n\nSituated at Binkılıç town of Çatalca, northwest of Istanbul on the Black Sea coast, it covers an area of . It was established in 2011. The region incorporating the nature park was declared a Wildlife Protection Area for its rich flora and fauna in 2005. Therefore, hunting is continuously forbidden in the region.\n\nThe nature park is on a bay featuring the combination of beach, forest, lake and reedy. The park has a -long and -wide beach with fine sand at its north. The Çilingoz Creek flows towards north into the Black Sea creating a sandy-alluvial mouth, which is narrow. There, it forms a large lake surrounded by reedy.\n\nThe nature park offers outdoor recreational activities such as camping, angling, hiking and picnicing for visitors. A restaurant and a snack bar serve the visitors. 60 tents are available for rent. Camping season continues until mid September. There is a RV park for recreational vehicles. The 30 wooden bungalows in the park area are for the use of personnel of the Forestry Administration, and can not be rented by visitors. Nearest comfortable lodging opportunity is available in Yalıköy.\n\n\nThe nature park is habitat of diverse vegetation. Plants of the wood area are mainly Oriental beech (\"Fagus orientalis\"), Oriental alder (\"Alnus orientalis\"), European hornbeam (\"Carpinus betulus\") and Turkey oak (\"Quercus cerris\"). Shrubs present are common rhododendron (\"Rhododendron ponticum\"), butcher's-broom (\"Ruscus aculeatus\"), myrtle, (\"Myrtus communis\"), laurel (\"Laurus nobilis\"), heather (\"Erica arborea\"), strawberry tree (\"Arbutus unedo\"), blackberry (\"Rubus\"), pampas grass (\"Cortaderia selloana\"). Observed plants in sandy areas are species such as field eryngo (\"Eryngium campestre\"), alkanet (\"Alkanna tinctoria\") and golden-flowered Onosma (\"Onosma taurica\"). \n\nThe nature park has a population of diverse bird species. Some of them are quail, cormorant, Eurasian woodcock, hawk, eagle-owl, woodpecker, common blackbird, stork, magpie, European goldfinch and passer. Mammals of the park are deer, roe deer, fox, European pine marten, wolf, jackal, squirrel, porcupine, hare, mole and tortoise. Fish species found in the waters of coastal area are red mullet, jack mackerel, grey mullet, bonito and thornback ray. Fish species inhabited in the sweet waters are trout, carp, European chub and eel.\n\nThe nature park can be reached from two directions. When coming from south, Çatalca or Saray on the state road , it is at a distance of on forest road from Binkılıç. The other route is in the east-west direction, coming from the Lake Terkos and passing through the towns Ormanlı, Karacaköy and Yalıköy. The distance from Yalıköy is . Binkılıç and Yalıköy are served by city bus line from Istanbul. A taxi ride is needed to reach the nature park from Binkılıç. There are dolmuş service from Yalıköy.\n\nAdmission to the nature park and to the beach is charged for visitors and vehicles. Camping is charged for tents on the overnight basis.\n"}
