{"id": "5114143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5114143", "title": "Attempts to ban football games", "text": "Attempts to ban football games\n\nThere have been many attempts to ban football, from the middle ages through to the modern day. The first such law was passed in England in 1314; it was followed by more than 30 in England alone between 1314 and 1667. Football faced armed opposition in the 18th Century when used as a cover for violent protest against the enclosure act. Women were banned from playing at English and Scottish Football League grounds in 1921, a ban that was only lifted in the 1970s. Female footballers still face similar problems in some parts of the world.\n\nMass or mob football was popular in medieval and early modern Europe. It involved an unlimited number of players and very few rules; the game often caused damage to people and property and was seen as a distraction from more desirable work which led to many attempts at banning the game in Britain and France.\n\nComplaints by London merchants led King Edward II of England to issue a proclamation banning football in London on 13 April 1314 because, \"...there is great noise in the city caused by hustling over large balls from which many evils may arise which God forbid; we command and forbid, on behalf of the King, on pain of imprisonment, such game to be used in the city in the future.\"\n\nPlaying football was seen as a distraction from practising archery, which was a mandatory occupation for every Englishman for much of the Middle Ages because archers were so valuable in battle at that time. This led Edward III and Edward IV of England to ban football in 1349 and 1477 respectively; the latter stated that, \"No person shall practice...football and such games, but every strong and able bodied person shall practice with the bow for the reason that the national defence depends upon such bowmen.\" Richard II also tried to outlaw the sport in 1389, as did Henry IV in 1401.\n\nDespite ordering the first known pair of football boots, Henry VIII of England attempted a ban in 1540. As with the other laws, this was only a partial success.\n\nBy 1608, the local authorities in Manchester were complaining that: \"With the ffotebale...[there] hath beene greate disorder in our towne of Manchester we are told, and glasse windowes broken yearlye and spoyled by a companie of lewd and disordered persons ...\" That same year, the word\n\"football\" was used disapprovingly by William Shakespeare. Shakespeare's play \"King Lear\" contains the line: \"Nor tripped neither, you base football player\" (Act I, Scene 4).\nShakespeare also mentions the game in \"A Comedy of Errors\" (Act II, Scene 1):\n\n\"Spurn\" literally means \"to kick away\", thus implying that the game involved kicking a ball between players.\n\nKing James I of England's \"Book of Sports\" (1618) however, instructs Christians to play at football every Sunday afternoon after worship. The book's aim appears to be an attempt to offset the strictness of the Puritans regarding the keeping of the Sabbath.\n\nThe Puritans had some success in suppressing \"disorderly\" sports including football after the English Civil War. Players were fined or sentenced to public humiliation in the stocks. The Mayor of York fined 11 players 20 shillings each when their game resulted in a smashed church window in the winter of 1659-60. The prosecution triggered a violent protest and resulted in over 100 armed men breaking into the Mayor's house; the ringleader was later fined 10 pounds or 400 shillings, a very large sum of money at the time. Football became even more popular following the Restoration in 1660.\n\nThe annual Shrove Tuesday game was first played in 1762 in the streets of Alnwick, and similar games were popular in many towns and villages at the time. The games were typically played in the streets which caused damage to property. A law was passed in 1818 banning street football. This law was ignored in Alnwick until 1827 when the Duke of Northumberland provided a field for the game to be played on legitimately.\n\nJames I of Scotland decreed that \"Na man play at the fut ball,\" in the Football Act of 1424; a further act of parliament was passed under the rule of James II in 1457 which banned both football and golf.\n\nThe French game La soule is another mass participation ball game similar to the English and Scottish mob football. It was banned by Phillippe V in 1319, and again by Charles V in 1369.\n\nIn 1440 the bishop of Tréguier threatened players with excommunication and a fine of 100 sol, saying that \"these dangerous and pernicious games must be prohibited because of hatred, grudges and enmities which, under the veil of recreational fun, accumulate in many hearts\".\n\nThe Enclosure Acts placed common land into individual ownership and removed the rights of local people to use the land as they had previously. Football was used as a means to protest this enclosure, and the supposed football game was often a pretext to organise a riot. One such event in Deeping Level, north of Peterborough, led to the sherriff of Lincolnshire raising the posse comitatus to quell the riots. In 1740, \"a match of futtball was cried at Kettering, of 500 men a side, but the design was to, \"Pull Down Lady Betey Jesmaine's Mill's.\" In 1764, of land was enclosed at West Haddon, Northamptonshire. A game of football was advertised in a local newspaper and after the kick off the mob set about tearing down and burning the fences amounting to £1,500 worth of damage.\n\nThe British Highway Act of 1835 banned the playing of football on public highways, and gave a maximum penalty of forty shillings to anyone who \"shall play at Football or any other Game on any Part of the said Highways, to the Annoyance of any Passenger or Passengers.\"\n\nEnglish women's football matches began in 1895 but following the first international match in 1920, women were banned from all affiliated FA grounds from 1921-71 on the grounds that, \"the game of football is quite unsuitable for females and ought not to be encouraged.\" The Scottish Football Association did not formally recognise women's football until 1973 after pressure from UEFA.\n\nIn 1931 the women's team from Fløya in Tromsø wrote to the Norwegian Football Association seeking permission to stage a series of fundraising matches. They played the first match before receiving a response: \"Ladies should not play football... the ladies could also get injuries that destroyed their reproductive organs. Fløya should therefore not allow or let ladies enter the football field.\" Further fundraising matches had to be abandoned. Women continued to play football in Norway despite the lack of official recognition, and were accepted into the Norwegian FA in 1976.\n\nThe Iran women's football team forfeited an Olympic qualifying match because the team's dress code mandated wearing of the maghnaeh to cover their heads. FIFA ruled that the kit broke one of their rules and did not let Iran participate, which meant Jordan were awarded a 3-0 result for the forfeit.\nIn July 2013 Libya's women's football team was banned from playing in an international tournament in Berlin, despite initially being given permission to attend. The Libyan Football Association gave concerns about the need for fasting during Ramadan as the reason for this ban.\n"}
{"id": "23772284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23772284", "title": "Botswana–Harvard AIDS Institute Partnership", "text": "Botswana–Harvard AIDS Institute Partnership\n\nThe Botswana–Harvard AIDS Institute Partnership (BHP) is an HIV/AIDS research and training organization. It was established in 1996. It is a partnership between the Government of Botswana and the Harvard AIDS Initiative. Its goal is to further HIV/AIDS research.\n\n"}
{"id": "7256112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7256112", "title": "CRS Robotics", "text": "CRS Robotics\n\nCRS Robotics Corporation (currently operating as Thermo CRS Limited) was a robotics company based out of Burlington, Ontario, Canada. CRS Robotics designed, manufactured, distributed, and serviced human scale articulated robots Articulated robot and laboratory automation systems. Human scale robots have approximately the same reach, speed, the range of motion, the degree of articulation and lifting capacity as a human being and are designed specifically to perform tasks that are hazardous, highly repetitive or generally unsuited for humans. Laboratory Automation applications are used to speed the effort of drug discovery for pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers.\n\nCRS Robotics was notable in the field of automated lab systems due to their developments in high throughput and ultra high throughput automated systems. Among other things, these developments included their advanced scheduling software, called POLARA, which was an open and extensible platform for the management and control of complex automated systems. As an example, a \"good portion of the work\" for \"the preliminary map of the human genetic code was performed on CRS Automated Lab Systems\".\n\nThe company commenced operations in 1982 as an engineering firm providing consulting services to Canadian machine tool manufacturers in the area of machine controls. The company sold its first robot, the M1 small robot system, in 1985. The company shipped its first laboratory automation system in 1997.\n\nThe company changed its name to CRS Robotics Corporation in 1994. In 1995, the company completed an initial public offering. The company was listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.\n\nIn May 2002, the company was acquired 100% by the Thermo Electron Corporation, (NYSE: TMO), and its name was subsequently changed to Thermo CRS. After the acquisition, the company still continues to develop laboratory automation systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "49965092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49965092", "title": "Camera eats first", "text": "Camera eats first\n\n‘Camera Eats First’ is the behavior and global phenomenon of people taking photos of their meals with digital or smartphone cameras before they eat, mostly followed by uploading the photos to the social media. The term refers to how people feed their cameras first by taking photos of their food before feeding themselves. It derives from professional food photography while the behavior of the ‘Camera Eats First’ is generally for personal use such as keeping photographic food diaries instead of commercial purposes. It can also be referred as online food photography, food porn and photogenic food.\n\nOne reason for the rise of ‘Camera Eats First’ is the rise of digital convenience. The global participation in social media is on continual surge with the advancement in technology and commonness of digital devices that serve as mediums for social media. The veteran food photographer of The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and Saveur magazine Dave Hagerman mentioned that Instagram, contains the most examples of ‘Camera Eats First’ photos. This platform provides a way for people to share and indulge in their common obsession of food globally, thus encouraging taking pictures of food for personal use. More importantly, keeping a photogenic food diary is being treated as a form of self representation, showing who they are from what they eat in accordance to the quote of “Tell me what you eat, and I will tell you what you are,” by the French philosopher and gourmand Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin, 1825.\n\nThe 'Camera Eats First' phenomenon is becoming more common all over the world with the emergence of smartphone and social media. After taking photos of their food, people will usually share the photos on social media such as Instagram, Facebook, Twitter and Pinterest. According to Webstagram, there are more than 180 million photos with the hashtag #food currently on Instagram. Other hashtags such as #foodporn and #foodie are often added to these photos. It is estimated that 90 new photos hash-tagged #foodporn are uploaded to Instagram every minute. The phenomenon is especially more prevalent among the younger generation. According to a survey done by News Limited, “54 per cent of 18-24 year olds have taken a photo of their food while eating out, while 39 per cent have posted it somewhere online. This compares with only 5 per cent of over-50s who say they share food snaps on forums such as Facebook and Twitter.”\n\nThrough sharing food photos on social media, users can form connections with other people and strengthen interpersonal bonds. Food is always a community event and a bonding experience which can bridge the gap between people and share joy. Thus, sharing food photos also acts as a \"social glue\" to gather people together to participate in each other's eating experiences. Through the sharing, a private dining experience is turned into a communal bonding activity. People can communicate and share their emotions with others, for example, happiness in a party. In addition, people can satisfy the psychological needs of “belongingness and love” and “esteem” according to the Maslow's hierarchy of needs as they can share their experiences and show off to the world what they are eating.\n\nSharing food photos can facilitate people’s obsession with food, but it can also help promote restaurants. Sharing of food photo can be a visual pull that will subconsciously alert people to check out new restaurants. Carmel Winery, a restaurant in Israel, gained $400,000 from free promotion by food photos on social media and successfully boosted its sales by 13% owing to the help of “Camera Eats First”. On the other hand, some chefs in Hong Kong would take \"food porn\" photos and post them on social media because they thought that the \"Camera Eats First\" phenomenon served as a channel for them to collect feedback from customers which is a vital information for them to make improvements to their dishes.\n\nAccording to a study mentioned on Bit of News, taking photos of pleasurable food, such as cakes, before eating it can increase the savoring — \"the increased anticipation built up from taking photos of the food made it taste better.\" If people don't take a photo, they may even feel something is missing from the savoring experience.\n\nThe 'Camera Eats First' behavior was banned in some French restaurants, as diners may infringe upon chefs' intellectual property. Some French chefs criticized that this behavior would ruin the surprise of future diners, as they might have seen the photos of dishes shared on the internet before coming to the restaurant. Diners posting the photos on social media may give rise to intellectual property disputes about other chefs copying the ideas and presentation of the plates, which are the creative elements contributed by the original chefs.\n\nThe \"Camera Eats First\" behavior may be considered as an impolite table manner. When diners photograph the food, they may place too much emphasis on the appearance of the food and try to capture the food at its best angle by rearranging tables. It may disrupt other people dining and spoil the enjoyment of their meal. They may also leave their partners in a state of hunger and impatience. \n\nOn the other hand, while people are busy photographing their food and sharing it online, they will have less time to communicate with their friends and family. One of the functions of eating—enabling families and friends to gather together and enhance intimacy—is lost. The 'Camera Eats First\" behavior may result in worsening relationships and weakening connection with others in contrast with the positive effect mentioned.\n"}
{"id": "15236927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15236927", "title": "Center for Telehealth and E-Health Law", "text": "Center for Telehealth and E-Health Law\n\nThe Center for Telehealth & E-Health Law (CTeL), established in 1995 by a consortium including the Mayo Foundation, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Texas Children's Hospital, and the Mid-West Rural Telemedicine Consortium, is a non-profit organization committed to overcoming legal and regulatory barriers to the utilization of telehealth and related e-health services. CTeL, based in Washington, D.C., specializes in compiling, analyzing and disseminating information on legal and regulatory issues information associated with telemedicine. It also handles underlying issues such as licensure and reimbursement. \nCTeL briefs public policymakers, writes reports, and provides testimony in support of telehealth. In its materials, CTeL argues that expanding the use of telehealth can improve patient safety, reduce medical errors, and increase patient access to primary and specialty care in both rural and urban settings. CTeL offers a variety of services, including involvement in public policy. CTeL activities include:\n\n"}
{"id": "56967815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56967815", "title": "Christian Langton", "text": "Christian Langton\n\nChristian Langton (born 6 August 1957) is a British researcher in medical physics. He is Adjunct Professor of Medical Physics, Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Australia.\n\nLangton is notable for his development of an early detection system for osteoporosis using ultrasonic waves.\n\nLangton was awarded a Doctor of Science (DSc) in Medical Physics from the University of Hull (the first to be awarded in a decade) for his work on the measurement of broadband ultrasonic attenuation in cancellous bone. In 2015 he received an Honorary Doctorate from the University of Eastern Finland. In 2006 Langton's work was listed by EurekaUK as one of the top 100 UK university discoveries to come out of the UK in the past 50 years. In 2008, the UK Department of Health recognised Langton in a publication highlighting eleven projects that had contributed to ‘60 years of NHS research benefiting patients’. His work is listed under the 'Hull Firsts' at the Carnegie Heritage Centre in Kingston-upon-Hull \n"}
{"id": "19822982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19822982", "title": "Clinical associates", "text": "Clinical associates\n\nClinical Associates are a category of health professional found in South Africa. They assess patients, make diagnoses, prescribe treatment and perform minor surgery under the supervision of a physician.\n\nRegistration with the Medical and Dentists Board requires a Bachelor of Clinical Medical Practice degree - a three-year program offered at the Walter Sisulu University since January 2008 and now also offered at the University of Witwatersrand, University of Pretoria and the University of Limpopo (Medunsa Campus).\n\nSimilar health workers are called clinical officers in other parts of Africa, physician assistants in the US and feldshers in parts of the former Soviet Union - all grouped under “paramedical practitioners” in the International Standard Classification of Occupations, 2008 revision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44318934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44318934", "title": "Clinical mental health counseling", "text": "Clinical mental health counseling\n\nClinical mental health counseling is a distinct profession with national standards for education, training, and clinical practice. Clinical mental health counselors operate from a wellness perspective, which emphasizes moving toward optimal human functioning in mind, body, and spirit, and away from distress, dysfunction, and mental illness. Counselors also view wellness and pathology as developmental in nature, and take into consideration all levels of a client's environment when conducting assessment and treatment. Counselors also frequently take a team approach, collaborating with other mental health professionals to provide the most comprehensive care possible for the client.\n\nEarly Greek philosophy provides some of the earliest views of mental health and illness. Hippocrates, who is considered the father of medicine, related behavioral tendencies and a person's temperament to the relative balance of their body fluids. He believed that imbalances of these fluids led to aberrant behaviors. Other Greek philosophers such as Plato theorized that aberrant behaviors stemmed from societal issues that required a community response. Promoting happiness and wellness was also a major theme for the early Greeks and Romans. The founder of hedonism, Epicurus, advocated for the hedonistic lifestyle, but he also warned that there was a risk of pain if the pleasures were withdrawn. Epictetus, on the other hand, believed that people were not disturbed by things, but by the view they took of those things, so he advocated for peace of mind to treat these disturbances.\n\nThere were both cruel and humane treatments developed in the Middle Ages for the mentally ill. Most behaviors that could not be explained were attributed to supernatural causes and that humans innately had a battle between good and evil happening inside of them all the time. People were tested to see if they were evil or with the devil using “water tests”. In Baghdad and Damascus, however, in the ninth and tenth centuries, humane treatments were being developed in which centers of care for the mentally ill were based in love and kindness. Humanity regressed again in the 16th century when hospitals known as asylums were developed to provide a place for people who were unable to care for themselves. These institutions were terrible and people were often kept in restraints and left there in their own waste. In the late 1700s, there were people who began to reform the system and developed something known as moral treatment at the time. Moral treatment included organized schedules of productive behavior, socializing, entertainment, education, exercise, and nutrition.\n\nIn the early 1900s, counseling had not yet developed into treatment of mental health issues and was more focused in education. Frank Parsons, known as the father of guidance, developed a plan to educate counselors and began the Vocational Guidance Movement. He was concerned with the problems of youth as youth unemployment became a major concern for adolescents as urbanization occurred and sustainable work and family income generated on family farms was not as prevalent. At this time, counselors were considered vocational counselors and this initiated the approach that began to form the more contemporary counseling process. Around the same time, Clifford Beers, a former patient of mental health hospitals, wrote a book exposing the terrible conditions of mental health institutions and he advocated for reform. Beers later founded the National Committee for Mental Hygiene, which later became the National Mental Health Association. Jessie B. Davis was the first individual to make guidance a regular part of the school curriculum. He was a superintendent or administrator and advocated for what became school guidance and counseling.\n\nDuring the great depression, counseling methods and strategies for employment grew as it was greatly needed at the time. In 1932, Brewer wrote a book entitled “Education as Guidance”, which promoted the broadening of counseling beyond just occupation. He suggested that every teacher share the implementation of counseling and that guidance needed to be in every school curriculum. In the 1940s, Carl Rogers began the development of counseling and psychotherapy. He believed that the client knows best and that only they could explain what their needs are and what direction to go in counseling based on what problems were crucial and needed attention. Rogers clearly indicated that he was not doing psychology and the courses he taught were based in the department of education.\n\nWorld War II brought to the forefront the importance of testing and placement as there was a strong need for selection and training of specialists for the military and industry. Counselors and Psychologists had the necessary skills to fill this much needed role. At the same time, thousands of soldiers were in need as a result of their combat experiences. The veterans administration provided professional counseling services to soldiers after their discharge and in 1945, the VA granted stipends and internships for students in counseling and psychology, boosting the support and training available to counselors. This time marked the beginning of government spending on counselor preparation as we know it today. Clinical psychologists were trained to treat and diagnose individuals with chronic disorders, and counseling psychologists were trained to deal with issues presented by people with high levels of mental health. This led to a new division or category of psychologists and the Division of Counseling and Guidance of the American Psychological Association changed the title to the Division of Counseling Psychology.\n\nIn the 1950s, flaws in the existing mental health system were being exposed and clinically effective pharmacological treatments were also being developed that could be provided in outpatient settings. This led to a need for community based clinics, but access to these services were very limited. The Community Mental Health Act of 1963 was very important in the development of the counseling profession. After the government analyzed the problems with mental illness and effective treatments, President John F. Kennedy believed that high quality treatment centers located in the patients community could lead to the phasing out of state mental hospitals and drastically improve the mental health system in the United States. The national network of community mental health centers created a demand for counselors and the profession began to expand and increase numbers of counselors.\n\nAs the counseling helping profession grew, there became a need to regulate the quality of services being provided by professionals via state licensure. In 1974, a special committee was appointed by the American Personnel and Guidance Association that focused on counselor licensure. This began the steps towards the first counselor licensure law in Virginia in 1976. In the 1980s mental health counseling had clearly established itself as a profession with a distinct set of regulations and methods to providing services. According to Gerig & Gerig (2014), distinct professional are characterized by “role statements, codes of ethics, accreditation guidelines, competency standards, licensure, certification, and other standards of excellence”. The counseling profession as we know it today has established all of these facets of a distinct profession and is being recognized more and more as a valuable and much needed helping profession in our society.\n\nCounselor licensure is established by state law and is the most powerful type of credential. Receiving a license in counseling indicates that one has met the minimum standards to practice counseling in that state. State laws vary in the requirements that must be met to obtain a license. Candidates must have at least received a master's degree, have had post-master's supervised practice, and have passed a national exam. From state to state, the number of credit hours to be completed varies, as do the number of supervised hours that must be completed and the counselor titles used. Some counselors may find that if they are licensed in one state, and then move to another state, they may have to take additional courses in order to receive licensure in that state. Below, the standards for licensure in North Carolina are described. In order to explore licensure requirement for other states, please refer to the National Board of Certified Counselor’s state licensure board directory and locate the information for the licensure board in your particular state.\nAccording to the North Carolina Board of Licensed Professional Counselors, prior to completing licensure requirements, a graduate of a master's program is known as a Licensed Professional Counselor Associate (LPCA). After being licensed by the state, the counselor is known as a Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC).\n\nAccording to the North Carolina Board of Licensed Professional Counselors, applicants must submit a completed application, along with verification of the completion of the following:\n\nIn order to become licensed as a Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC) in North Carolina, graduate students need to complete 60 semester hours of graduate course work in nine specific areas of study. These include:\n\nThe LPC applicant must obtain a passing score on a national exam, such as the National Counselor Exam (NCE), the National Clinical Mental Health Counseling Exam (NCMHCE), or the Certified Rehabilitation Counselor Exam (CRC). The first two exams are offered by the National Board for Certified Counselors (NBCC) and the third exam is offered by the [Commission on Rehabilitation Counselor Certification (CRCC). In addition to the national exam, applicants must complete a no-fail Jurisprudence Exam, which covers information on laws and ethical codes.\n\nApplicants must have completed 3,000 hours of supervised counseling practice. Supervisees should receive one hour of live supervision per forty hours of practice. Of the 3,000 hours, 2,000 hours must involve direct client contact.\n\nCertification is a voluntary credential that can be acquired by counselors as well. According to Remley and Herlihy, there are two national certification agencies for the counseling profession. These are the [National Board for Certified Counselors] (NBCC) and the [Commission on Rehabilitation Counselor Certification (CRCC)]. The NBCC also offers specialty certifications. The information regarding the certifications provided by the NBCC is outlined below.\n\nAccording to Remley and Herlihy, this certification is granted by the National Board of Certified Counselors (NBCC) after an individual has met certain requirements. These include:\n\nAccording to Gerig, counselors seeking the CCMHC specialty credential must meet the following requirements:\n\nAccording to Gerig, the Master Addictions Counselor (MAC) specialty certification is intended for counselors treating substance abuse and dependence. Counselors seeking this credential must complete the following requirements:\n\nProfessional organizations exist to serve many different functions. They provide an assembly for professionals to gather to discuss issues and problems that exist within the profession. Organizations allow the members of a profession to address issues as a group rather than facing these issues independently. Professional organizations provide an outlet for legislative activity and leadership regarding particular issues that affect the profession at all levels. Continuing education is a critical requirement for members of a profession as it ensures that all professionals’ skills and expertise are continuously updated to reflect the most current research and recommendations; professional organizations provide this continuing education to its members. These organizations also assist in keeping professionals up-to-date by providing scholarly journals, books, and media resources to its members. Lastly, professional organizations publish and enforce a code of ethics for its members.\n\nThe following professional organizations are the primary ones available to those within the clinical mental health counseling profession.\n\nAmerican Counseling Association is “a not-for-profit, professional and education organization that is dedicated to the growth and enhancement of the counseling profession”. Headquartered in Alexandria, VA, with 56 chartered branches in the United States, Europe, and Latin America, it was founded in 1952 and is noted to be the world's largest association that exclusively represents professional counselors in a variety of practice settings. ACA is divided into 20 divisions that are tailored to specialized areas and/or principles of counseling. ACA has membership available for all stages of the counseling profession from student to retirees. In addition to the professional and advocacy benefits, ACA also offers its members discounts on malpractice liability, auto, home, and personal insurance products; prescription, lab, and imaging services, and discounts from industry leaders in hotel, travel, credit cards, as well many other consumer services. Members can choose to additionally join one or more of the 20 divisions, which offer their own unique professional benefits. One of these divisions, American Mental Health Counselors Association, is integral to the field of clinical mental health counseling.\n\nAmerican Mental Health Counselors Association is made up of more than 7,000 clinical mental health counselors. Its mission is “to enhance the profession of clinical mental health counseling through licensing, advocacy, education, and professional development”. Like ACA, clinical mental health counselors at all stages of their professional journey, including students, are eligible to join AMHCA. Member benefits also include professional liability insurance plan discounts, continuing education opportunities, networking via AMHCA's annual conference, and a quarterly journal with the latest clinical mental health counseling research.\n\nNational Board for Certified Counselors is a not-for-profit, independent certification organization that was established in 1982. Its primary purposes are “to establish and monitor a national certification system, to identify those counselors who have voluntarily sought and obtained certification, and to maintain a register of those counselors”. NBCC has four voluntary certifications, the National Certified Counselor (NCC), Certified Clinical Mental Health Counselor (CCMHC), National Certified School Counselor (NCSC), and Master Addictions Counselor (MAC). The NCC and MAC are both accredited by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA). Obtaining National Counselor Certification (NCC) through NBCC, though not required, has many professional benefits including showing the public and employers that you have voluntarily met high national standards for the practice of counseling. Additionally, NCCs receive a number of other benefits including access to low-cost liability insurance, the ability to market oneself using the certification, a free six-month listing in the Therapy Directory, continuing education credit, among others. The fees that are paid for certification go towards supporting NBCC's advocacy efforts for the counseling profession.\n\nThis type of counseling setting generally provides a wide array of services, especially depending on particular populations served, as well as geographical setting. Services may include, but are not limited to: individual, family, and group outpatient talk therapy; twenty-four-hour crisis intervention, or mobile crisis management; rape, sexual abuse, and domestic violence services; testing and assessment for career interests, and broader mental health issues; community psychoeducation and outreach; day treatment (for mentally ill and/or developmentally disabled); intensive in-home treatment; jail diversion programs; and case management.\nIn terms of insurance, some agencies are able to take both private (Blue Cross/Blue Shield, United Healthcare, etc.) and governmental (Medicaid, Tricare) policies. Regarding governmental insurance, this type of coverage is dependent on whether or not the specific agency is approved for federal and/or state funding. When it comes to serving Medicare-covered clients, counselors in the U.S. are still exempt from the list of acceptable providers, thus it is a current issue of great concern in our community. For private policies, such as Blue Cross/Blue Shield, the agency must secure a placement on the insurance company's provider panel, again no small task. It is also common for community agencies to respect uninsured clients, or clients facing financial hardship, by operating on a sliding scale, or payment plan.\n\nAlthough private practices are common in the American mental health counseling community, a licensed counselor often enters this kind of setting after several formative, professional years have passed, following completion of a master's degree program. Before making the transition into the private setting, many therapists work for a larger community-based agency, hospital, or treatment facility. The advantages certainly include, but are not limited to: an independence in providing therapy; the ability to be more selective when it comes to the clientele and population(s) served; and incorporating unique skills and special training, such as play therapy, EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing), etc.\nHowever, the act of operating a private practice is akin to running a small business. In order to prosper, it is crucial for the counselor to have proper business and public representation skills. In deciding to hang a shingle, one must be prepared to establish and maintain a respectable presence in his or her community, oftentimes promoting awareness (and thus one's business) on one's own time. Awareness activities include visiting places of worship, community centers, local businesses, etc. to perform psychoeducation workshops.\nAs described in the previous section of Community Mental Health Agencies, the same standards of insurance coverage, as well as sliding scale payment, apply to private practice settings. A big difference, however, independent counselors are often responsible for processing their own billing, if they do not have an administrative assistant.\n\nIn this mental health setting, there are many commonalities shared with the more overarching community agencies. Both environments encompass similar services, such as: individual, family, and group outpatient counseling; twenty-four hour crisis intervention; day treatment for mentally ill and/or developmentally disabled clients; and case management. Although alcohol/substance abuse programs have an obvious focus on recovery and rehabilitation, counseling services also apply to assisting in comorbidity, or dual diagnoses (e.g. bipolar disorder and alcohol dependence). Recovery programs provide specialized group counseling sessions for clients dealing with comorbidity, for gender-specific clientele, and for clients receiving methadone treatment.\nClients may enter treatment through self- or family-referral. More often than not, the majority are ordered to participate in a recovery program by a judge in Drug Court, on account of criminal charges pertaining to drunk driving, possession of illegal substances, etc. The majority of clients receive funding through Medicaid or the state, but private insurance can also be accepted. Both outpatient and residential services last an average of thirty to ninety days. Due to this seemingly brief span of time for treatment, counselors strongly encourage their clients struggling with addiction(s) to become regular attendees of local AA and/or NA meetings, and to obtain a sponsor as soon as possible.\n\nThis counseling setting is typically based within a school's wellness or health center, directly on campus. Ordinarily, there are an average of eight to ten free sessions allocated to every student for each academic year, with each session lasting roughly one hour. It is not uncommon for a client's appointments to occur once every two to three weeks, as the counseling staff serve hundreds to even thousands of students per semester. That being said, therapists in this type of employment setting can enjoy, but should be prepared for, an extreme variety of mental health concerns.\nThe clientele are principally both traditional young adult, and adult students. College and university counseling staff assist students within a broad scope of subject matter, “such as depression, anxiety, self-mutilation, eating disorders, posttraumatic disorders, and self-esteem issues”. The strictly designated number of sessions for each student is designed to make the therapy process temporary and brief. However, if a client reveals a more severe mental disorder, the staff are responsible for referring the individual to specialized services in the community.\n\nCounseling theories are interrelated principles that describe, explain, predict, and guide the actions of the counselors within different situations. The use of theory provides a tool for counselors to use in order to identify important aspects of and clearly organize a client's story or narrative. These integrated systems are evaluated by multiple criteria: precision and clarity, comprehensiveness, testability, utility, and heuristic value. Counseling theories can be classified into four distinct categories: analytic, humanistic-existential, action-based, and postmodern/multicultural approaches.\n\n\n\n\n\nA code of ethics contains standards of behavior or practice that are agreed upon as acceptable by professionals within a given field. There are multiple ethical codes within the field of counseling that counselors are expected to abide by within their work and professional role. These codes are then enforced by ethics committees and licensure boards. A violation of code may lead to a number of consequences, dependent upon the severity of the violation, and varying in such: one might be placed on probation, suspended, or even have their license revoked.\n\nWhile law clarifies a profession's scope of practice, ethics are important to each profession for a number of reasons. Not only do codes of ethics provide standards to which members of the profession are held accountable, but they also aid in the improvement of provided services. Ethical codes promote professionalism, and provide evidence of the intent of members within a profession to regulate and moderate their behavior. They assist in identifying appropriate courses of action for situations that arise without clear and easy resolution. Also, while ethical codes cannot be entirely preventative, they protect consumers from dangerous and/or inappropriate practice. Different professional organizations within each field may have their own personal code of ethics as well, such as the American Counseling Association and the American Mental Health Counselors Association in the profession of counseling.\n\nIt has been concluded that ethics encompasses five different features: possessing adequate knowledge, skills, and judgment to produce effective interventions; respecting the dignity, freedom, and rights of the client; using power inherent in the counselor's role judiciously and responsibly; conducting oneself in such a way that promotes the public's confidence in the profession; maintaining the client's welfare as the highest priority of the mental health professional,î. Similarly, six different principle ethics are often considered as crucial to take into account when faced with an ethical decision: the principle of autonomy, which relates to the client's right to control their own life, decisions, future, etc.; nonmaleficence, which translates to doing no harm to the client; somewhat oppositely, beneficence, which means doing good for or promoting the welfare of your client; justice, referring to fairness and equality on the part of the professional; fidelity, which requires the professional to fulfill a responsibility of faithfulness and trust; and veracity, which means being truthful and honest with clients.\n\nThe newest 2014 edition of the American Counseling Association's Code of Ethics contains nine sections that each address a separate area of ethical conduct: the counseling relationship; confidentiality and privacy; professional responsibility; relationships with other professionals; evaluation, assessment, and interpretation; supervision, training, and teaching; research and publication; distance counseling, technology, and social media; and resolving ethical issues. A brief description of some of these predominant realms follows.\n\nConfidentiality refers to the respect of a client's privacy. Any information that a client reveals during counseling is protected. The client's consent is required for the reveal of information to a third party. Laws of privileged communication within applicable states also further protect the privacy of clients. Where privileged communication is present, confidential information does not need to be disclosed in court without the client's permission. Confidentiality is crucial to create the safety, trust, and honesty required in an effective, beneficial counseling relationship. Outside of privileged communication, there are generally four instances in which confidential information may be released to a third party: if the client allows the counselor to do so with a signed release of information, if the client discloses or is suspected to be an imminent threat of safety or danger to self or others, if current abuse or the intent of abuse of another is disclosed, or if a court order or subpoena requires the release of client records or testimony of the counselor.\n\nThis concept of competence requires proof of minimum competency for a professional, while also striving to practice in an ideal manner. For each credential that a counselor earns, such as a degree and licensure, there are minimum prerequisites of performance that must be met. A counselor may also be competent or incompetent in different types of counseling, working with different populations, or specializing in different theoretical orientations. Competency also needs to be maintained over time and should be self-monitored. Counselors should continue to access and review current research, and continuing education credits can be earned through workshops, seminars, webinars, etc. When this ethical concept is not maintained, a counselor may be risking professional misconduct, and may even face trial for malpractice.\n\nInformed consent is typically addressed through a form at the beginning of a counseling relationship, and pertains to the client's right to be aware of the nature of that relationship and the counseling process itself. Informed consent should be present throughout the entire period that a client is receiving services. This information should be presented both in written form, and discussed verbally with the client. A professional disclosure statement is typically provided to the client, which should include but is not limited to: counselor credentials, issues of confidentiality, the use of tests and inventories, diagnosis, reports, billing, and therapeutic process,î.\n\nThere are multiple boundaries that could be crossed between a client and a counselor, including physical, psychological, emotional, and social boundaries. Some of these boundary lines may be blurry. For example, there are differing opinions on whether touch is ever appropriate between a counselor and their client. Sexual intercourse, however, is generally uniformly disagreed upon. Dual relationships, where a counselor holds two or more different roles within a client's life at the same time, are also typically avoided, as well as the acceptance of gifts of significant monetary value.\n\nFor a full copy of the 2014 ACA Code of Ethics, see the link Code of Ethics at: 2014 ACA Code of Ethics\n\nMany Community mental health (CMH) specialists operate under the holistic philosophy that in order to reach optimal health and wellness Mental health professionals must look not only at the individual but also at the interacting communities and environment that surrounds that individual. The principal philosophy is no longer removing the disordered person from normal family, social and community settings into a sheltered institutionalized environment but rather to a community-based treatment center for support and rehabilitation.\n\nImportant dates and figures such as Dorothea Dix in 1843 and the National Mental Health Act of 1946 brought attention to the living situations of the mentally ill and the need for financial funding and more appropriate programs. In 1963 the Community Mental Health Act provided federal funding for CMH services. Thanks to the development of available economic resources, a supply of mental health professionals and multidisciplinary team approaches mental health has been deinstitutionalized.\n\nCMH is now in the era of post deinstitutionalization. The rates of psychiatric patients treated in inpatient facilities have declined and the shift has turned to more cost-effective alternatives. New techniques and models are used to provide care for people that formerly would have been sent to in patient treatment.\n\nThe idea behind the least restrictive treatment environment is to match the treatment's intensity with the severity of the client's condition so that restrictions to client personal freedom are minimal. This has been achieved by decreasing the clients’ average lengths of stay in hospitals and emphasizing stabilization instead of intense therapy. Once stabilized, clients are released to the care of community-based agencies and practitioners for outpatient treatment plans. However, a phenomenon revolving door occurs when patients are admitted, stabilized, released and then readmitted many times over a short period. Strong communication networks between mental health providers and the hospital must be utilized to help with the revolving–door phenomenon.\n\nCase management models help clients coordinate their schedule while integrating various community services. One of the most comprehensive case management model approaches is the Assertive community treatment approach.\n\nIn the ACT approach, a team of professional counselors, social workers, nurses, rehabilitators and psychiatrists provide comprehensive, community-based treatment and support to clients. The team's caseload is small and the responsibility is shared among team members. Services may include medication delivery, rehabilitation, and behavioral training in basic adaptive living skills, problems of nonattendance and transportation needs. It also includes 24-hour emergency services, medication management, money management, and assistance with daily living .\n\nThis is the belief that mental health consumers should be able to develop control of treatment and end oppressive stigmas. Results of this movement include consumer-developed systems of care, self-help groups, consumer advocacy organizations and the recovery perspective.\n\nSupport groups like Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) have increased from around 50 in 1942 to well over 58,000 in 2012. Parents without Partners (PWP) started in 1957 with one group of two women and is now the world's largest nonprofit membership organization. Formed in 1976, the National Self-Help Clearinghouse now communicates information about the activities of more than 500,000 self-help groups that now exist in the United States.\n\nThe National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) is a self-help support group and advocacy organization that consists of over 1,000 local affiliates and 50 state organizations. NAMI advocates for increased funding for research, housing, jobs, rehabilitation, and suitable health insurance.\n\nThe rise of the recovery perspective in community mental health is changing the underlying philosophy of what is means to be mentally ill. The U.S. government's Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) defines recovery as “a journey of healing and transformation enabling a person with a mental health problem to live a meaningful life in a community of his or her choice with striving to achieve his or her full potential.” The ten fundamental components of recover philosophy are: 1) Self-Direction\", 2)\" Person-Centered\", 3) \"Empowerment\", 4) \"Holistic\", 5) \"Non-linear\", 6) \"Strength-based\", 7) \"Peer Support\", 8) \"Respect\", \n9) \"Responsibility\", and 10) \"Hope\".\n\nUnder the recovery consumers of mental health care are viewed as capable and responsible persons who can take charge and manage his or her condition. Wellness strategies are implemented in recovery work such as journaling, visiting friends, exercising, nutritious eating, praying, meditation, doing acts of kindness, and practicing gratitude. Consumers in recovery that offer service to their peers in mental health treatment are called Peer support specialist. They often help connect consumers with mental help professionals and are usually trained to counsel.\n\nMany health professionals argue that counseling is as much art as it is science. Though some might find science-based outcome studies to be not particularly helpful evidence-based treatments are sometimes mandated. This is because professional organizations, third party reimbursers and consumers want more attention given to quality control and accountability .\n\nEvidence based treatment is typically a study in which a particular treatment produce change, which was evident in randomized controlled trials, in comparison with another approach or not treatment at all. SAMHSA has developed the National Registry of Evidence-based Programs and Practices. This database provides summaries, target populations, types of outcomes achieved, costs, and expert ratings. Other Evidence-based practice studies and research are used in community counseling to ensure treatment is effective.\n\n"}
{"id": "34911133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34911133", "title": "Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education", "text": "Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education\n\nThe Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE) is the agency recognized by the United States Department of Education for granting accreditation status to entry-level education programs for physical therapists and physical therapist assistants. The stated mission of CAPTE includes \"establishing and applying standards that assure quality and continuous improvement in the entry-level preparation of physical therapists and physical therapist assistants and that reflect the evolving nature of education, research, and practice\".\n\nIt is based in Alexandria, Virginia.\n\nAs of 16 December, 2011, CAPTE recognizes 200 educational institutions supporting 210 accredited programs for PTs and 259 institutions supporting 280 accredited programs for PTAs.\n\n"}
{"id": "52244299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52244299", "title": "Consultative Council on Medical and Allied Services", "text": "Consultative Council on Medical and Allied Services\n\nThe Consultative Council on Medical and Allied Services was established under the Ministry of Health Act 1919 along with the Consultative Council on National Health Insurance.\n\nBertrand Dawson, 1st Viscount Dawson of Penn was the first chair.\n\nThere were disagreements in the council about finance matters, and whether health authorities should be statutory committees of existing local authorities, or bodies established purely to manage health services. \n\nIt produced an Interim Report on the Future Provision of Medical and Allied Services in 1920 which was influential in later debates about the future of the National Health Service\n\nRecords of the Councils and their subcommittees are held in the National Archives.\n"}
{"id": "29127862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29127862", "title": "DXY.cn", "text": "DXY.cn\n\nDXY.cn () is an online community for physicians, health care professionals, pharmacies and facilities, established on July 23, 2000 by Tiantian Li.\n\nDXY is more of a vertical community (a type of virtual community) than a traditional social network service, where physicians can gain insight from colleagues, discuss new clinical findings, report usual events and more. The company's Chinese name is 丁香园 (meaning \"lilac garden\"). The site is one of the largest physicians online community worldwide, with more than 3.2 million members.\n\nIt also publishes news on clinical progress and industry news, reports conference and prepares professional material for physicians' continue education. The commercial business covers Biomart (platform for biomedical e-commerce), JobMD (platform for healthcare job searching and matching and headhunt service), DXY survey (market research related service).\n\n"}
{"id": "3428855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3428855", "title": "Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa", "text": "Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa\n\nThe Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa (DENOSA) is a trade union in South Africa that describes itself as \"a voluntary organisation for South African nurses and midwifery professionals\".\n\nDENOSA was established in its current form on 5 December 1996.\n\nDENOSA is an affiliate of the Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU) and became a full member of the International Council of Nurses on 15 June 1997. The union suspended its participation in the leadership structures of COSATU on 10 November 2014 as a result of the federations expulsion of the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (NUMSA) on 7 November 2014.\n\nAt its 2010 congress, DENOSA passed a resolution that the DENOSA National Executive Committee should proceed with the merger with the South African Democratic Nurses' Union (SADNU).\n\nDENOSA has set up numerous projects with the aim of improving healthcare in South Africa. These mainly consist of workshops to educate nurses on HIV/AIDS and multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis\n\nThe following list is of the national leadership:\n\nThe following list is of the Provincial Chairpersons.\n"}
{"id": "8430501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8430501", "title": "Disseminated disease", "text": "Disseminated disease\n\nDisseminated disease refers to a diffuse disease-process, generally either infectious or neoplastic. The term may sometimes also characterize connective tissue disease.\n\nA disseminated infection,for example, has extended beyond its origin or nidus and involved the bloodstream to \"seed\" other areas of the body. Similarly, one can view metastatic cancer as a disseminated infection in that it has extended into the bloodstream or into the lymphatic system and thus \"seeded\" distant sites (a process known as metastasis).\n\nDisseminated disease is often contrasted with localized disease.\n"}
{"id": "23489489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23489489", "title": "Early postnatal hospital discharge", "text": "Early postnatal hospital discharge\n\nEarly postnatal hospital discharge is typically defined as the discharge of the mother and newborn from the hospital within 48 hours of birth.\n\nThe length of stay in a hospital after childbirth decreased gradually over several decades in the U.S., initially because of consumer desire for a less medical interventions related to childbirth, and later in an effort to reduce costs. A similar gradual shortening of postnatal hospital stays occurred in Canada. Early discharge has also occurred in the U.K. and Australia.\n\nThere has been controversy over the practice and its relationship with follow-up care, cost, and maternal and newborn health may be complex. A 1995 review found that available studies were insufficient to shed much light on the consequences. A study concluded that early discharge is safe if it is part of a program involving postnatal care outside the hospital.\n"}
{"id": "54360116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54360116", "title": "Eaton Township Weis Markets shooting", "text": "Eaton Township Weis Markets shooting\n\nIn the early hours on the morning of June 8, 2017, employees at a Weis Markets supermarket in Eaton Township, Pennsylvania, were stocking and closing the store for the night. Shortly before 1:00 a.m., 24-year-old Randy Stair barricaded the exits of the store and proceeded to shoot and kill three of his co-workers before shooting himself.\n\nRandy Stair, 24, arrived for his late-night shift at Weis Markets in Eaton Township, Pennsylvania (just south of Tunkhannock), on the evening of June 7, 2017, during closing time at approximately 11:00 p.m. Stair went to the back of the store to the crew area and blocked an emergency exit at the far back of the store. He then continued with his duties, stocking shelves and cleaning up from the previous day. At 12:10 a.m., he sent out links to multiple files and videos which detailed his plans via his Twitter account; these files were labeled \"Journal\", \"Suicide Tapes\", and \"Digital set\".\n\nStair then went back to the crew area in the rear of the store, blocked the remaining exits, then locked the automatic doors at the main entrance to the store. He then pulled out two pistol grip pump-action shotguns and walked around the store and killed three employees—Victoria Brong, Brian Hayes, and Terry Lee Sterling. He then approached another coworker, Kristan Newell, who had not heard the shooting due to her listening to music with headphones on while she was labeling items and stocking shelves near the rear of the store. Stair was seen on CCTV surveillance camera footage standing behind Newell as she worked for about five seconds before she proceeded to the next aisle.\n\nAfter this, Stair proceeded to fire at a glass and other merchandise in the store and shot multiple small portable propane tanks, which failed to explode. Around this time, Newell took off her headphones; hearing the gunshots, she hid in the crew room and called 9-1-1. After a short time, Stair finished shooting items. Stair went to the deli section of the store, placed the shotgun in his mouth, and committed suicide. A total of 59 shots were fired. All shotgun rounds came from only one of the shotguns. Randy stated in his fifth \"Suicide Tape\" that the second shotgun was only for backup in case the first one \"breaks down on [him] or jams, and [he has] no way of fixing it\". He said he needed at least one of the shotguns to be functional in order to commit suicide.\n\n\nRandy Robert Stair (September 17, 1992 – June 8, 2017), who called himself Andrew Blaze, worked at Weis Markets for seven years prior to the shootings. He had kept detailed videos, recordings, and journals leading up to the shooting, most of which he uploaded to online forums and social media profiles just prior. In these writings and videos, he expressed his willingness to commit suicide, addressed the personal tragedies and other misfortunes he experienced which led him to a state of depression, described coming to the conclusion that he was transgender after years of secretly cross-dressing, and explained his plans on carrying out the shooting in detail. Stair also had a fascination with multiple mass shootings, specifically school shootings (particularly the Columbine High School massacre and its perpetrators). In his writings, Stair even called the Columbine shooters his heroes and wished he could have met them.\n\nSince 2007, Stair had a presence on YouTube with his channel Pioneers Productions, which featured short sketches and collaborations he did with other content creators. By 2014, however, he announced that he was going in a different direction with his content, citing numerous unfortunate events that had occurred in his life during the previous year; this led to the creation of \"Ember's Ghost Squad\" (EGS), an animated series focused on a fictional organization based on the character of Ember McLain from the Nickelodeon animated series \"Danny Phantom\".\n\nIn the evening before the shooting, Stair uploaded a final video titled \"The Westborough High Massacre\". In it, he describes his hatred towards the people involved with the series through an angry prologue. It then featured a crudely animated sequence depicting him and one of the characters from EGS murdering students at a fictional high school, before ending with montages of previous videos explaining the motives behind the shooting. He also managed nine Twitter accounts based on his characters, where he left links to journals and videos he uploaded on MediaFire. He was living in nearby Dallas, Pennsylvania, with his parents and had lived in Pennsylvania all of his life.\n\nThe shooting did not receive much attention outside of local news outlets, but multiple Pennsylvania public leaders expressed their sadness and condemned the shooter's actions. Nevertheless, in reaction to the shooting, the Weis Markets store closed until July 13. A Weis Markets spokesperson said, \"We are deeply saddened by the events of this morning. The safety of our associates, our customers, and the surrounding community is our top priority.\"\n\nBecki Hayes, the sister-in-law of victim Brian Hayes, set up a GoFundMe campaign to pay for immediate expenses. Hayes was also featured on Nancy Grace's podcast \"Crime Stories with Nancy Grace\".\n\nOn June 14, 2017, Weis Markets announced the store would be reopened. The original store front stayed intact but the interior was gutted and remodeled with a new floor layout. On July 13, 2017, the store was reopened.\n\nMany people who lived in the area questioned why Weis decided to not relocate the store. In an interview with WNEP, some even said they will not even enter the remodeled store due to what occurred there. However, some in the community accepted the supermarket chain's decision. One man said that it would have played into Stair's hands if the store had left. He explained, \"The evil man who did this would have wanted them to move and would have wanted people to be scared and not want to go to the store after what he did.\"\n"}
{"id": "6524650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6524650", "title": "Edible ink printing", "text": "Edible ink printing\n\nEdible ink printing is the process of creating preprinted images with edible food colors onto various confectionery products such as cookies, cakes, or pastries. Designs made with edible ink can either be preprinted or created with an edible ink printer, a specialty device which transfers an image onto a thin, edible paper. Edible paper is made of starches and sugars and printed on with edible food colors. Some edible inks and paper materials have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration and carry its generally recognized as safe certification.\n\nThe first papers of this process used rice paper, while modern versions use frosting sheets. The first U.S. patent for food printing, as it applied to edible ink printing, was filed by George J. Krubert of the Keebler Company and granted in 1981. Such paper may be consumed without harmful effects. Most edible paper has no significant flavor and limited texture. Edible paper may be printed on by a standard printer and, upon application to a moist surface, dissolves while maintaining a high resolution. The end effect is that the image (usually a photograph) on the paper appears to be printed on the icing.\n\nEdible printer inks have now become prevalent and are used in conjunction with special ink printers. Ink that is not specifically marketed as being edible may be harmful or fatal if swallowed. Edible toner for laser printers is not currently available. Any inkjet or bubblejet printer can be used to print, although resolution may be poor, and care should be taken to avoid contaminating the edible inks with previously used inks. Inkjet or bubblejet printers can be converted to print using edible ink, and cartridges of edible ink are commercially available.\n\nSome edible inks are powdered, but if they are easily soluble in water they can also be used as any other edible ink without reducing quality. Edible paper is used on cakes, cookies, cupcakes and marshmallows.\n"}
{"id": "19345222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19345222", "title": "Federico Andahazi", "text": "Federico Andahazi\n\nFederico Andahazi (born June 6, 1963) is an Argentine writer and psychologist.\n\nFederico Andahazi was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, at Congreso, a very central neighborhood of the city. He is the son of Bela Andahazi, an aristoratic Hungarian poet and psychoanalyst, and Juana Merlín, of Russian-Jewish ancestry. \nHe obtained a bachelor's degree in Psychology (University of Buenos Aires); he practiced psychoanalysis a few years, while he was working on his short stories.\n\nIn 1996, while Andahazi was the finalist of the Planeta Awards, his novel \"The Anatomist\" won the First Prize of the \"Fundación Fortabat\". However, the mentor and financial supporter of the contest, María Amalia Lacroze de Fortabat, announced her \"disagreement\" with the decision of the jury, through a request published in most newspapers of Buenos Aires, in which she stated that the novel \"does not contribute to [the] exalt[ation of] the most high values of the human spirit\".\n\nThe \"Fundación\" respected and implemented the decision of the jury, which included María Angélica Bosco, Raúl Castagnino, José María Castiñeira de Dios, María Granata and Eduardo Gudiño Kieffer, but the jury was subsequently dismissed by Amalia Lacroze de Fortabat and the literary competitions organized by the \"Fundación Fortabat\" have not been held again.\n\n\"The Anatomist\" was published by Editorial Planeta in 1997, translated into over thirty languages, and has sold millions of copies worldwide.\n\nHis second novel, \"Las piadosas\" (The Merciful Women), a Gothic fantasy set in Geneva, exploring the relationship between Lord Byron, his secretary Polidori and Mary Shelley, was published in 1998.\n\nIn 1998 the publishing house Temas published \"El árbol de las tentaciones\", a small volume containing short stories that obtained awards. The three short stories begin in the same way and are located in similar settings of nineteenth-century Argentina.\n\nIn 2000 he published \"El príncipe\" and in 2002 \"El secreto de los flamencos\".\n\n\"Errante en la sombra\" was published in 2004; Andahazi wrote more than forty tangos for this story, in which singer Carlos Gardel takes part.\n\nThe novel \"La ciudad de los herejes\" was published in 2005.\n\nAlso during the summer of 2005, Andahazi and his readers collectively wrote a newspaper series called \"Mapas del fin del mundo\" (Maps from the End of the World) published by the newspaper Clarín. The author wrote the beginning of a text, asking the readers to continue the story, create characters, propose plots, solve riddles, to be sent by e-mail. Therefore, in an unprecedented work, reading and answering thousands of e-mails per week, Andahazi built the story with the various inputs and points of view. Every Saturday a new chapter was added to the novel, increasing the participation and the expectation of readers turned co-authors.\n\nIn 2006, Federico Andahazi was awarded the Planeta Prize for his novel \"El conquistador\" (\"The Conqueror\"). There he narrates the story of Quetza, the brilliant son of Tenochtitlan, who discovers the European continent.\n\nIn 2008, Andahazi published his first non-fiction book, \"Pecar como Dios manda\", a sexual history of Argentines.\n\nHe took part in numerous anthologies, among others: \"Las palabras pueden: Los escritores y la infancia\" (2007, dedicated to UNICEF and World Food Program, with authors like José Saramago, Carlos Fuentes, Ernesto Sábato, Juan Gelman, Mario Benedetti and Mario Vargas Llosa; \"Líneas aéreas\" (1999, published by Lengua de trapo, Spain) with writers such as Jorge Volpi, Santiago Gamboa and Edmundo Paz Soldán; \"A Whistler in the Nightworld\", collection of short fiction from Latin America (2002, published by Plume, USA) with Laura Restrepo and Ángeles Mastretta among others; \"La Selección Argentina\" (2000, published by Tusquets); \"El libro de los nuevos pecados capitales\" (2001, Norma Publishing Group). He also took part in the book \"Homage to Diego Maradona\" (2001, SAF) together with Roberto Fontanarrosa and Pacho O'Donnell.\n\nHis books have been translated to many languages. In the United States, he has been published by Doubleday, in England by Transworld, in France by Laffont, in Italy by Frassinelli, in China by China Times, in Japan by Kadokawa, in Germany by Krüger.\n\nHe has delivered lectures in the Faculty of Journalism and Communication Sciences of the University of Moscow, Russia, and the University of Santos Ossa of Antofagasta, Chile. He has also given talks in Stockholm, London, Paris, Istanbul and other cities of Europe, Latin America, and The United States.\n\nHe has participated in literary congresses in France, Finland, and several cities in Spain among others. He has been invited to book fairs in Guadalajara, Moscow, Pula, Istanbul, Madrid, Barcelona, Buenos Aires and other cities of Argentina.\n\nHe has written articles published by \"Clarín\", \"La Nación\", \"Perfil\", \"Noticias\", \"Veintitrés\", \"Lamujerdemivida\", \"Brando\", \"V de Vian\", and others in Argentina, USA, Portugal, Colombia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24717965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24717965", "title": "Food in occupied Germany", "text": "Food in occupied Germany\n\nAmerican food policy in occupied Germany refers to the food supply policies enacted by the U.S., and to some extent its dependent Allies, in the western occupation zones of Germany in the first two years of the ten-year occupation of Western Germany following World War II.\n\nShortly before the outbreak of World War II the German government instituted rationing which resulted in the restricted availability of food. Occasional shortages of food occurred during the war, and a black market developed. However, supplies were generally adequate, especially in comparison to the situation in some other European countries. In part, this was due to the ruthless exploitation of occupied countries by the German government. These policies included the \"Hunger Plan\", which resulted in the deaths of millions of people in German-occupied areas of the Soviet Union when food supplies were redirected to Germany and the German military units operating in the USSR. Inadequate food rations also formed part of The Holocaust, resulting in tens of thousands of deaths in Warsaw alone, and around two million Soviet prisoners of war were starved to death by German forces over the winter of 1941/42.\n\nWidespread food shortages first began to occur in Germany following the end of the war in May 1945. The production of food was disrupted by the effects of the war, including the destruction of farmland, livestock, and machinery. In addition, labour shortages developed when the slave labourers who had been forced to work on German farms returned to their homes. The situation was worsened by a period of poor weather. As a result, the output of German farms was sufficient to provide city residents with only 1,000 calories of nutrition per day. At this time, food supplies were limited across much of Europe, including the United Kingdom and France, resulting in continued rationing.\n\nDuring the planning for the occupation of Germany, the Allies were faced with the issue of whether food allocations for the country should be set at either the minimum needed to avoid disease and political disorder, or levels sufficient to fully meet the population's needs. A principle of ensuring that Germans had no better access to food than the worst-affected Allied country was adopted, but not applied in practice. The Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force initially set the ration scale for Germans at 2,600 calories per day, the same as levels in Belgium and France and at the top of the scale considered adequate by the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration.\n\nOnce the occupation of Germany commenced, it proved impossible to deliver the intended levels of food. The Allied planners underestimated the extent of the damage to German infrastructure, and overestimated the ability of Germans to grow their own food. As a result, once supplies which had been stockpiled by the German government during the war ran out, the ration scales were reduced to 1,000 to 1,250 calories per day. Most German civilians were able to supplement these rations, however. Displaced persons, including Holocaust survivors, were allocated more generous rations. These averaged only between 1,600 and 2,000 calories per day, and few of the displaced persons were able to access other sources of food.\n\nAfter the German surrender the U.S. chose to designate large numbers of German prisoners as Disarmed Enemy Forces (DEF) instead of using the Prisoner of War status under which the captives would have been under the protection of the Geneva convention and, therefore, would have been entitled to the same quantities of food as U.S. troops.\n\nThe conditions these prisoners had to endure were often harsh. A number of the camps in Western Germany, especially initially, were huge wired-in enclosures lacking sufficient shelter and other necessities. (see Rheinwiesenlager) Since there was no longer a danger of German retaliation against Allied POWs, \"less effort was put into finding ways of procuring scarce food and shelter than would otherwise have been the case, and, consequently, tens of thousands of prisoners died from hunger and disease who might have been saved\".\n\nThe International Red Cross was never permitted to fully involve itself in the situation in DEF or SEP camps, and even though conditions in them gradually improved, even the most conservative estimates put the death toll in French camps alone at over 16,500 in 1945.\n\nAfter the German surrender, the International Red Cross was prohibited from providing aid such as food or visiting the prisoner camps. However, after making approaches to the Allies in the autumn of 1945 it was allowed to investigate the camps in the UK and French occupation zones of Germany, as well as to provide relief to the prisoners held there.\n\nOn February 4, 1946, the Red Cross was permitted to visit and assist prisoners also in the U.S. occupation zone of Germany, although only with very small quantities of food. During their visits, the delegates observed that German prisoners of war were often detained in appalling conditions. They drew the attention of the authorities to this fact, and gradually succeeded in getting some improvements made.\n\nThe German Red Cross, which during the war had become thoroughly Nazified with its head Ernst Grawitz a major figure in medical experiments on Jews and \"enemies of the state\", was dissolved, and the International Red Cross and the few other allowed international relief agencies were kept from helping Germans through strict controls on supplies and on travel.\n\nDuring 1945 it was estimated that the average German civilian in the U.S. and the United Kingdom occupation zones received 1,200 calories a day. Meanwhile, non-German Displaced Persons were receiving 2,300 calories through emergency food imports and Red Cross help.\n\nFearing a Nazi uprising, U.S. occupation forces were under strict orders not to share their food with the German population, and this also applied to their wives when they arrived later in the occupation. The women were under orders not to allow their German maids to get hold of any leftovers; \"the food was to be destroyed or made inedible\", although in view of the starving German population facing them many housewives chose to disregard these official orders. Nevertheless, according to a U.S. intelligence survey a German university professor reportedly said: \"Your soldiers are good-natured, good ambassadors; but they create unnecessary ill will to pour twenty litres of left-over cocoa in the gutter when it is badly needed in our clinics. It makes it hard for me to defend American democracy amongst my countrymen.\"\n\nIn early 1946 U.S. President Harry S. Truman allowed foreign relief organizations to enter Germany in order to review the food situation. In mid-1946 non-German relief organizations were permitted to help starving German children. The German food situation became worst during the very cold winter of 1946–47, when German calorie intake ranged from 1,000 to 1,500 calories per day, a situation made worse by severe lack of fuel for heating. Average adult calorie intake in the U.S was 3,200–3,300, in the UK 2,900 and in the U.S. Army 4,000.\n\nThe precise effect of the food crisis on German health and mortality has been a matter of some contention. Speaking of the Anglo-American zones, Herbert Hoover reported that in the fall of 1946, starvation produced a 40 percent increase in mortality among Germans over 70. However, John Farquharson cites statistics indicating that the incidence of hunger oedema was low in 1946–1947. According to the British Medical Journal, mortality in the British zone was above its pre-war level until June, 1946, when the death rate fell below that of 1938. Also, once it became clear there would be no rising, as threatened by the Nazis during the war, food controls were relaxed.\n\nThe historian Nicholas Balabkins notes that the Allied restrictions placed on German steel production, and their control over where the produced coal and steel was delivered, meant that offers by Western European nations to trade food for desperately needed German coal and machinery were rejected. Neither the Italians nor the Dutch could sell the vegetables that they had previously sold in Germany, with the consequence that the Dutch had to destroy considerable proportions of their crop. Denmark offered 150 tons of lard a month; Turkey offered hazelnuts; Norway offered fish and fish oil; Sweden offered considerable amounts of fats. The Allies were however not willing to let the Germans trade.\n\nAnother consequence of the Allied policy of \"Industrial Disarmament\" (see The industrial plans for Germany) was that there was a drastic fall in fertilizer available for German agriculture, further decreasing the food production.\n\nThe German infant mortality rate was twice that of other nations in Western Europe until the close of 1948.\n\nThe adequate feeding of the German population in occupied Germany was an Allied legal obligation under Article 43 of The 1907 Hague Rules of Land Warfare.\n\nA Handbook for Military Government in Germany was ready in August 1944, it was an occupation document which advocated a quick restoration of normal life for the German people and reconstruction of Germany. The secretary of the U.S. Treasury Henry Morgenthau, Jr., author of the Morgenthau Plan for partition and deindustrialization of postwar Germany, brought it to the attention of President Franklin D. Roosevelt who after reading it rejected it with the words:\n\nToo many people here and in England hold the view that the German people as a whole are not responsible for what has taken place – that only a few Nazis are responsible. That unfortunately is not based on fact. The German people must have it driven home to them that the whole nation has been engaged in a lawless conspiracy against the decencies of modern civilization.\n\nA new document was drafted, the Joint Chiefs of Staff directive 1067 (JCS 1067). Here the military government of occupation was ordered to \"...take no steps looking toward the economic rehabilitation of Germany [or] designed to maintain or strengthen the German economy\" and it was also ordered that starvation, disease and civil unrest were to be kept below such levels where they would pose a danger to the troops of occupation.\n\nOn March 20, 1945, President Roosevelt was warned that the JCS 1067 was not workable: it would let the Germans \"stew in their own juice\". Roosevelt's response was \"Let them have soup kitchens! Let their economy sink!\" Asked if he wanted the German people to starve, he replied, \"Why not?\"\n\nBy August 1945 General Clay was becoming increasingly concerned about the humanitarian and political situation in the area under his responsibility. He stated \"There is no choice between being a communist on 1,500 calories a day and a believer in democracy on 1000 calories\".\n\nTwo years later, in July 1947, JCS 1067 was scrapped and replaced by JCS 1779 which noted that \"an orderly, prosperous Europe requires the economic contributions of a stable and productive Germany.\" \n\nGeneral Clay would later remark in his memoirs that \"there was no doubt that JCS 1067 contemplated the Carthaginian peace which dominated our operations in Germany during the early months of occupation.\"\n\nNicholas Balabkins takes a favorable view of Allied policy, asserting that American food shipments saved the lives of \"millions of Germans\", although shortages persisted into 1948. Balabkins also notes that the distributed food rations were of poor composition and \"considerably below minimum nutrition standards\"; without access to additional food from alternative sources recipients would eventually fall prey to starvation. Balabkins also cites an authority who stated that the rations \"represented a fairly rapid starvation level\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13214434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13214434", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Australia", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Australia\n\nThe history of HIV/AIDS in Australia is distinctive, as Australian government bodies recognised and responded to the AIDS pandemic relatively swiftly, with the implementation of successful disease prevention and public health programs, such as needle and syringe programs (NSPs). As a result, despite significant numbers of at-risk group members contracting the disease in the early period following its discovery, the country achieved and has maintained a low rate of HIV infection in comparison to the rest of the world.\n\nAt the end of 2017, 27 545 people were estimated to be living with HIV in Australia. 20 922 infections were attributable to male‐to‐male sex exposure, 6 245 to heterosexual sex, 605 to injecting drug use, and 168 to ‘other’ exposures (vertical transmission to newborn, blood/tissue recipient, healthcare setting, haemophilia/coagulation disorder). AIDS is no longer considered an epidemic or a public health issue in Australia, due to the success of anti-retroviral drugs and extremely low HIV-to-AIDS progression rates.\nThe first recorded case of HIV/AIDS in Australia was in Sydney in October 1982, and the first Australian death from AIDS occurred in Melbourne in July 1983.<ref name=\"26 years of HIV/AIDS\"></ref>\n\nSpurred to action both by the emergence of the disease amongst their social networks and by public hysteria and vilification, gay, lesbian and sex worker communities and organisations were instrumental in the rapid creation of AIDS councils (though their names varied), sex worker organisations, drug user organisations and positive people's groups. The AIDS councils were formed in South Australia, Victoria and Western Australia in 1983, and in New South Wales, Queensland, Tasmania and the Australian Capital Territory in 1985. The state and territory AIDS councils, along with the other national peak organisations representing at-risk groups Australian Injecting & Illicit Drug Users League (AIVL), National Association of People with HIV Australia (NAPWHA), Anwernekenhe National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander HIV/AIDS Alliance (ANA), the Scarlet Alliance, and the Australian Federation of AIDS Organisations, all contribute to Australia's response to HIV.\n\nNon-governmental organisations formed swiftly and have remained prominent in addressing AIDS in Australia. The most notable include the AIDS Trust of Australia, formed in 1987, The Victorian AIDS Council (VAC), formed in July 1983, and the Bobby Goldsmith Foundation, founded in mid 1984. The Bobby Goldsmith Foundation is one of Australia's oldest HIV/AIDS charities. The Foundation is named in honour of Bobby Goldsmith, one of Australia's early victims of the disease, who was an athlete and active gay community member, who won 17 medals in swimming at the first Gay Olympics, in San Francisco in 1982. The Foundation had its origins in a network of friends who organised care for Goldsmith to allow him to live independently during his illness, until his death in June 1984. This approach to supporting care and independent living in the community is the basis of the Foundation's work, but is also an approach reflected in the activities and priorities of many HIV/AIDS organisations in Australia.\n\nIn 1985, Eve van Grafhorst was ostracised since she had contracted HIV/AIDS caused by a transfusion of infected blood. The family moved to New Zealand where she died at the age of 11.\n\nThe Australian health policy response to HIV/AIDS has been characterised as emerging from the grassroots rather than top-down, and as involving a high degree of partnership between government and non-government stakeholders. The capacity of these groups to respond early and effectively was instrumental in lowering infection rates before government-funded prevention programs were operational. The response of both governments and NGOs was also based on recognition that social action would be central to controlling the disease epidemic.\n\nIn 1987, a well-known advertising program was launched, including television advertisements that featured the grim reaper rolling a ten-pin bowling ball toward a group of people standing in the place of the pins. These advertisements garnered a lot of attention: controversial when released, and continuing to be regarded as effective as well as pioneering television advertising.\n\nThe willingness of the Australian government to use mainstream media to deliver a blunt message through advertising was credited as contributing to Australia's success in managing HIV. However the campaign also contributed to stigma for those living with the disease, particularly in the gay community, an impact one of the advertising scheme's architects later regretted.\n\nAustralian Governments began in the mid-1980s to pilot or support programs involving needle exchange for intravenous drug users. These remain occasionally controversial, but are reported to have been crucial in keeping the incidence of the disease low, as well as being extremely cost-effective.\n\nHIV/AIDS quickly became a more severe problem for several countries in the region around Australia, notably Papua New Guinea and Thailand, than it was within Australia itself. This led Australian governments and non-government organisations to place an increasing emphasis on international initiatives, particularly aimed at limiting the spread of the disease. In 2000, the Australian government introduced a $200 million HIV/AIDS prevention program that was targeted at south-east Asia. In 2004, this was increased to $600 million over the six years to 2010 for the government's international HIV/AIDS response program, called \"Meeting the Challenge\". Australian non-government organisations such as the AIDS Trust are also involved in international efforts to combat the illness.\n\nIn response to the risks of HIV transmission, some governments (e.g. Denmark) passed legislation designed specifically to criminalise intentional transmission of HIV. Australia has not enacted specific laws, there have been a small number of prosecutions under existing state laws, with four convictions recorded between 2004 and 2006.\n\nThe case of Andre Chad Parenzee, convicted in 2006 and unsuccessfully appealed in 2007, secured widespread media attention as a result of expert testimony given by a Western Australian medical physicist that HIV did not lead to AIDS.\n\nIn February 2008, Hector Smith, aged 41, a male prostitute in the Australian Capital Territory who is HIV-positive, pleaded guilty in the ACT Magistrates Court to providing a commercial sexual service while knowing he was infected with a sexually-transmitted disease (STD) and failing to register as a sex worker. Under ACT law it is illegal to provide or receive commercial sexual services if the person knows, or could reasonably be expected to know, that he or she is infected with a sexually transmitted infection (STI).\n\nIn January 2009 Melbourne man Michael Neal was jailed for 18 years (with a minimum term of thirteen years, nine months) for deliberately infecting and trying to infect sexual partners with HIV without their knowledge, despite multiple warnings from the Victorian Department of Human Services.\n\nAustralian governments have made it illegal to discriminate against a person on the grounds of their health status, including having HIV/AIDS; for example, see . However HIV positive individuals may still be denied immigration visas on the grounds that their treatment takes up limited resources and is a burden for taxpayers. To end HIV discrimination in Queensland and Australia in general, there is a plan to raise awareness and educate local people on HIV by 2020. This program is supported by government, as well as by many educational and volunteer organizations. The main aim of the program is to educate people about HIV as it will help to prevent it and stop HIV discrimination in the area.\n\nAustralia was one of the first countries to screen all blood donors for HIV antibodies, with screening in place for all transfused blood since March 1985. This was not before infection was spread through contaminated blood, resulting in legal cases in the 1980s around whether screening had been appropriately implemented. One issue highlighted in the course of those actions was the challenge of medical litigation under statutes of limitation. A medical condition such as HIV that can lie latent or undiagnosed for a long period of time may only emerge after the time period for litigation has elapsed, preventing examination of medical liability. Concerns about the integrity of the blood supply resurfaced following a case of the contraction of HIV by transfusion in Victoria in 1999. This led to the introduction of new blood screening tests, which also improved screening in relation to Hepatitis C.\n\nGay men have sought to donate blood to help increase Australia's blood supply stock, saying this volunteering would, in turn, help reduce discrimination towards LGBT people. The Australian Red Cross Blood Service have indicated their concern regarding the possible transmission of HIV and noting they are receptive to a reduction in the current deferral period from 12 to 6 months, but the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration, has rejected their submission on this issue.\n\nBy the end of 2017, there were estimated to be 3,349 women diagnosed with HIV comprising 13.8% of all infections. In 2013, the median age of diagnosis for women is at 30 years of age. The reasons for acquiring the HIV blood test is spread across three circumstances. Firstly, 30.2% of people become physically ill, 17.1% of peoples partner had tested positive therefore they accessed medical assistance and thirdly, 12.9% of people acquired testing due to exposure to a large risk episode.\n\nThe most common form of transmissions of HIV is through blood, semen, pre-ejaculation, rectal mucus, vaginal fluids and breast milk. Therefore, women need to be extremely cautious when engaging in sexual activity as well as if and when falling pregnant. Often, behaviours that lead to women contracting the HIV virus include engagement in sexual intercourse within a heterosexual relation with someone who already has HIV/AIDS, using drugs intravenously or receiving infected blood products.\n\nRisks of passing on the HIV virus to an unborn child is extremely high for women whom have been diagnosed with HIV/AIDS. In Australia, it is a part of routine antenatal testing that mothers undergo a blood test to check for HIV/AIDS. HIV transmission to an unborn child is often called Perinatal HIV transmission, Vertical Transmission or Mother-To-Child-Transmission (MTCT). There are three main ways a mother can risk passing on the HIV virus to her child and that is during the pregnancy via crossing of the placenta, during birth if the baby comes in contact with the mothers bodily fluids and through the practice of breastfeeding. \nTherefore, when falling pregnant it is important for a mother to access additional Antenatal care. Visitation to an infectious disease physician, experienced obstetrician, paediatrician and midwife is recommended. As well as accessing additional psycho-social support such as a counselor and support worker.\n\nTo reduce the risks of MTCT the mother can start preparing prenatally with a series of anti-retroviral medications. Using other means of conception practices such as the method of 'sperm washing'. This is where the sperm cells are separated from the seminal fluid and used to fertilise a woman's eggs via the use of a catheter or in vitro fertilisation (IVF) methods. Seeking additional medical checkups to observe clinical markers determining disease progression along with regular observations of baby's development can also help in monitoring the health of the baby.\n\nIn addition, the postnatal care taken to reduce risks of MTCT include avoiding procedures where the baby's skin may be cut or electing to have a cesarean section to reduce the risk of contact with body fluids. Ensuring the baby's eyes and head are cleaned, the umbilical cord is clamped as soon as possible and placing an absorption pack (towel or sponge) over the umbilical cord when cut to prevent blood spurting will also reduce the risk of the baby coming in contact with any contaminated fluids. Bottle feeding the baby also removes any chance of coming in contact with infected body fluids. Along with the mother taking anti-retroviral medication, giving the baby a course of this until it is 4–6 weeks of age also drastically reduces its risk of transmission. Medical practitioners also require the infant undergo regular blood tests at 1 week, 6 weeks, 12 weeks, 6 months, 12 months and 18 months to test for any evidence of the HIV virus.\n\nAssociation with HIV/AIDS within Australia is largely absent from the mainstream population. Therefore, in 2009, 73.6% of women diagnosed with HIV/AIDS reported unwanted disclosure of their health status due to a lack of awareness and knowledge about the disease. This was due to the large amount of stigma associated with a HIV diagnosis. The emotional and psychological problems for pregnant mothers within Australia are extremely high. 42% of women diagnosed with HIV/AIDS are also diagnosed with a mental health condition due to the harsh effects of the arising stigma around such circumstances. The stigma associated with HIV diagnosis in women often involves evoked assumptions that these women are considered a part of the sex trade industry, are homosexual or are intravenous drug users. These women are often viewed as contagious and are assumed to have devious traits and behaviours. In western society, socially specific roles expected of women, such as motherhood, create automatic discrimination when diagnosed with HIV/AIDS. Those women diagnosed with HIV/AIDS who express the idea of wanting to become pregnant are often discriminated against as being selfish, inconsiderate, uncaring and immoral. Healthcare professionals and practitioners are often reported as having negative attitudes towards women who openly identify with having HIV/AIDS and being pregnant or wanting to become pregnant.\n\nThe Sydney Mardi Gras, one of the largest street parades and gay and lesbian events in the world, has HIV/AIDS as a significant theme, and is one of a number of pathways through which the non-government sector in Australia continues to address the disease.\n\nAustralian researchers have been active in HIV/AIDS research since the early 1980s. The most prominent research organisation is the Kirby Institute (formerly National Centre in HIV Epidemiology & Clinical Research), based at the University of New South Wales, regarded as a leading research institution internationally, and a recipient of one of the first grants of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation outside the United States. The Centre focusses on epidemiology, clinical research and clinical trials. It also prepares the annual national surveillance reports on the disease. In 2006 the Centre received just under 4 million in Commonwealth government funding, as well as several million dollars of funding from both public and pharmaceutical industry sources. Three other research centres are also directly Commonwealth funded to investigate different facets of HIV/AIDS: the National Centre in HIV Social Research (NCHSR); the Australian Centre for HIV and Hepatitis Virology Research (ACH) (formerly the National Centre for HIV Virology Research); and the Australian Research Centre in Sex, Health and Society (ARCSHS).\n\nResearch has identified anal mucus as a significant carrier of the HIV virus, with the risk of HIV infection after one act of unprotected receptive anal sex being approximately 20 times greater than after one act of unprotected vaginal sex. Anal sex, risk-reduction strategies have been identified and promoted to reduce the likelihood of transmission of HIV/AIDS.\n\nWhile the spread of the disease has been limited with some success, HIV/AIDS continues to present challenges in Australia. The Bobby Goldsmith Foundation reports that nearly a third of people with HIV/AIDS in New South Wales (the state with the largest infected population) are living below the poverty line. Living with HIV/AIDS is associated with significant changes in employment and accommodation circumstances.\n\nSurvival time for people with HIV has improved over time, in part through the introduction of antiretroviral drug treatments with post-exposure prophylaxis treatments reducing the possibility of seroconversion and minimising the likelihood of HIV progression to AIDS. However, HIV does have its own health issues.\n\nAfter the initial success in limiting the spread of HIV, infection rates began to rise again in Australia, though they remained low by global standards. After dropping to 656 new reported cases in 2000, the rate rose to 930 in 2005. Transmission continued to be predominantly through sexual contact between men, in contrast to many high-prevalence countries in which it was increasingly spread through heterosexual sex. Indeed, the majority of new Australian cases of HIV/AIDS resulting from heterosexual contact have arisen through contact with a partner from a high-prevalence country (particularly from sub-Saharan Africa or parts of south-east Asia).\n\nThe new trend toward an increase in HIV infections prompted the government to indicate it was considering a return to highly visible advertising. Reflecting this concern with the rise in new cases, Australia's fifth National HIV/AIDS Strategy (for the period 2005–2008) was titled \"Revitalising Australia's Response\", and placed an emphasis on education and the prevention of transmission.\n\nOn 19 October 2010, \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" reported that 21,171 Australians have HIV, with 1,050 new cases diagnosed in 2009. \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" also reported that 63% of Australians living with HIV were men who have sex with men (MSM), and 3% were injecting drug users.\n\nAs the end of 2011, there had been 31,364 diagnosed HIV infections in Australia, and just around 24,731 people were living with HIV/AIDS.\n\nOn 17 October 2012, \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported that up to 35,000 Australians have HIV, with 1,137 new cases diagnosed in 2011. The Kirby Institute data shows 85% of people infected from 2009–2013 were MSM, while heterosexual contact accounted for 9% and 1% from injecting drug use.\n\nIn 2012, between 12,500 and 15,000 people were living with HIV in NSW, while the estimated number of people living with HIV in Australia was 25,708. On 5 July 2013, the NSW Ministry of Health reported that 409 new cases of HIV infection were recorded in NSW in 2012—this compares with 330 new cases in 2011. The data showed that of the 409 diagnoses in 2012, 81% was acquired by MSM, 14% by heterosexually active persons and 2% through unsterile injecting equipment. Nationally, 1,253 cases of newly diagnosed HIV infections were registered in Australia and, of these, 88% were MSM, 9% involved heterosexual contact and 1% were injecting drug users.\n\nAccording to an annual surveillance report, around 30,000 Australians knew they had the HIV virus in 2013, with the biggest HIV increase occurring within the 25 years-and-under age group. The director of the UNSW Centre for Social Research in Health, John de Wit, said in October 2013 that about 10% of gay men were HIV positive at the time. In February 2014, de Wit stated that there are \"many human and economic reasons\" to revitalise HIV prevention efforts in Australia.\n\nIn 2013, around 10,500 people are living with diagnosed HIV in NSW. The NSW Ministry of Health reported that 357 new cases of HIV infection were recorded in NSW in 2013 (compared with 409 new cases in 2012, a 13% reduction). It is estimated that another 10–20% have undiagnosed HIV. At least 7,887 people living with HIV in NSW are on antiretroviral treatment. Of the 357 new HIV cases, most infections reported were in gay and homosexually active men (78%), with heterosexual contact accounting for 17%, injecting drug use 3% and aboriginal people 2% of notifications.\n\nFollowing a 32% increase (from the same period in 2013) in HIV diagnosis in NSW for the first three months of 2014, with similar results in other states, the US ambassador to Australia, John Berry stressed people remain vigilant against HIV/AIDS.\n\nIn Queensland, in 2014 there was a 34% increase in HIV notifications over the previous-year same period with the majority of the notifications being amongst Australian-born MSM. The Queensland Aids Council expressed its concern, but said it could be the result of increased testing.\n\nIn Victoria, HIV notifications have increased over the past three years. This rise is partially explained by the introduction of rapid HIV testing. While approximately 90% of people living with HIV in Victoria are MSM, 20% of the new diagnoses are outside that group.\n\nIn 2014, the Kirby Institute reported for Australia 1,235 new HIV cases were diagnosed in 2013, with more than 26,000 people living with the virus, and one in seven with HIV not knowing they have the virus. It was reported that the prevalence of HIV in Australia has increased to a 20-year high largely attributable to gay men abandoning condom use.\n\nIn November 2014 an 18m high pink condom was erected on the Sydney Hyde Park Obelisk which was intended to raise awareness for gay men of HIV/AIDS. Concerns were expressed that, \"children need to be able to retain their innocence\" and \"parents do not want to be forced into a situation where they have to explain something that's not relevant\".\n\nIn September 2015 an Australia-wide study has shown that the rate of HIV infections has stabilised at about 1,000 new cases annually, while the number of gay men having condomless casual anal sex is at an all-time high.\n\nAfter peaking at 1,084 new diagnosed cases in 2014, the rate has dropped each year to reach 963 in 2017. While there has been a dramatic decrease in MSM with an 11% decline in the past five years, this has been partially offset by a 19% increase in case attributed to heterosexual sex during the same period.\n\nFrom 20 to 25 July 2014, Melbourne, Australia hosted the XX International AIDS Conference. Speakers included Michael Kirby, Richard Branson and Bill Clinton. Clinton's focus was HIV treatment and he called for a greater levels of treatment provision worldwide; in an interview during the conference, Kirby focused on legal issues and their relationship to medication costs and vulnerable groups—Kirby concluded by calling for an international inquiry:\nAnd what is needed, as the Global Commission on HIV and the Law pointed out, is a new inquiry at international level – inaugurated by the secretary-general of the United Nations – to investigate a reconciliation between the right to health and the right of authors to proper protection for their inventions. At the moment, all the eggs are in the basket of the authors, and it's not really a proportionate balance. And that's why the Global Commission suggested that there should be a high level of investigation.\n\nBranson, Global Drug Commissioner at the time of the conference, stressed the importance of decriminalising illicit injecting drug use to the prevention of HIV and, speaking in global terms, stated that \"we're using too much money and far too many precious resources on incarceration\". The Open Society Foundation launched the \"To Protect and Serve\nHow Police, Sex Workers, and People Who Use Drugs Are Joining Forces to Improve Health and Human Rights\" report at the conference.\n\nThe International AIDS Society (IAS) confirmed that six passengers on board the Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 shot down over Ukraine, while unofficial reports claim that up to 100 conference delegates were killed on the flight. The six delegates were acknowledged during the conference at the AIDS 2014 Candlelight Vigil event.\n\nHIV infection is now treatable for those with HIV expecting to live near-normal lifespans, providing they continue taking a regimen of antiretroviral drugs. Post-exposure prophylaxis drugs are generally available in Australia at a subsidised cost through the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS). 84% of (the 24,000) HIV positive gay men were on antiretroviral treatments in 2014.\n\nPre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) drugs are used as a means of reducing HIV risk for people who do not have HIV, with some advocates saying it will allow condomless safe-sex. Currently it costs $750 per month to import the drug from overseas. In Australia, PrEP drugs are available, at \"about $1,200 per month\", following the May 2016 approval of the Therapeutic Goods Administration. Despite the lobbying to have these PrEP drugs subsidised under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, in August 2016 it was announced that the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee had rejected the proposal for this drug to be PBS-subsidised.\nOn 9 February 2018, the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC) has announced that PrEP will be subsidised by the Australian Government through the Pharmaceutical Benefit Scheme (PBS)\n\n\n\nAustralian government official information source on HIV/AIDS:\n\nThe national peak organisations representing people living with or affected by HIV:\n\nThe National Federation of AIDS organisations:\n\nThe AIDS councils:\n\nCommonwealth government-funded research centres:\n\nOther HIV/AIDS organisations:\n\nHIV/AIDS initiatives in Australia:\n"}
{"id": "12632319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12632319", "title": "Harlene Anderson", "text": "Harlene Anderson\n\nHarlene Anderson (born 1942) is an American psychologist. Along with Dr. Harold A. Goolishian (1924–1991), she developed a postmodern collaborative approach to therapy. She is recognized as a leader in the field of marriage and family therapy for her contributions to theory development, as well as innovative practices and training. The collaborative approach, first developed for use with families and mental health delivery systems, has proven (Anderson, 1997; Anderson & Gehart, 2007) effective with a variety of human systems and professional practices, including: organizations, businesses, higher education, and research.\n\nIn the 80s, she was one of the founders of the systemic family therapy studies in Germany, and a co-founder of the Houston Galveston Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "6229578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6229578", "title": "Hazards Campaign", "text": "Hazards Campaign\n\nThe Hazards Campaign is a UK national network established in 1988 to campaign for improved workplace health, safety and welfare, and a reduction in the incidence of work-related injury, ill-health and death. It brings together Hazards Centres, Occupational Health Projects, trade unions, health and safety groups, specific campaigns and individual health and safety activists. Specific campaign groups include the Construction Safety Campaign, the Centre for Corporate Accountability (CCA), the UK WorkStress Network, Families Against Corporate Killers (FACK), asbestos victims' support groups, and RSI Action. \n\nThe campaign works by: sharing information and skills; campaigning on specific issues; acting as a national voice; issuing press releases; holding conferences; establishing national initiatives, including Workers Memorial Day; lobbying MPs, MEPs and statutory bodies like the Health & Safety Commission and the Health & Safety Executive, and organising demonstrations and protests. \n\nThe Campaign is a worker-oriented organisation, and promotes trade union organisation in workplaces, increased worker involvement and participation in decision-making, and a radial perspective on the issues. It currently (2006) promotes and supports a number of emerging safety representative networks in different parts of the UK. It meets about four or five times a year; these meetings are open to anyone sharing the aims of the campaign. Its highest profile event is the annual Hazards Conference, the largest regular rank-and-file event in Europe, which attracts around 600 delegates every year.\n\n"}
{"id": "39378676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39378676", "title": "Human vaginal size", "text": "Human vaginal size\n\nThe dimensions and shape of the human vagina are of great importance in medicine and surgery; there appears to be no one way, however, to characterize the vagina's size and shape. In addition to variations in size and shape from individual to individual, a single woman's vagina can vary substantially in size and shape during sexual arousal and sexual intercourse. Parity is associated with a significant increase in the length of the vaginal fornix. The potential effect of parity may be via stretching and elongation of the birth canal at the time of vaginal birth.\n\nAlthough the dimensions of the human vagina have not been the subject of intensive research to the same extent as research into human penis size, a number of research studies have been made of the dimensions of the human vagina.\n\nA 1996 study by Pendergrass et al., using vinyl polysiloxane castings taken from the vaginas of 39 Caucasian women, found the following ranges of dimensions:\n\nA second study by the same group showed significant variations in size and shape between the vaginas of women of different ethnic groups. Both studies showed a wide range of vaginal shapes, described by the researchers as \"Parallel sided, conical, heart, [...] slug\" and \"pumpkin seed\" shapes. Barnhart et al., however, weren't find any correlation amongst the race and the size of vagina. They were also unable to characterize the vaginal shape as a \"heart, slug, pumpkin seed or parallel sides\" as suggested by the previous studies.\nA 2003 study by the group of Pendergrass et al. also using castings as a measurement method, measured vaginal surface areas ranging from with a mean of and a standard deviation of \n\nResearch published in 2006 by Barnhart et al., gave the following mean dimensions, based on MRI scans of 28 women:\n\n\nLawrence, citing Masters and Johnson's \"Human Sexual Response\" (1966), states that pages 73 and 74 of that book show that typical vaginal depth in Masters and Johnson's participants ranged from 7–8 cm (2.8–3.1 in) in an unstimulated state, to 11–12 cm (4.3–4.7 in) during sexual arousal with a speculum in place.\n\nThere does not appear to be large variation in the dimensions of the vagina within the same woman. Given the large range in the dimensions noted, it is most likely that one size for a vaginal device will not fit all vaginas.\n\nThe depth of the typical neovagina created by male-to-female sex reassignment surgery is generally limited by the length of Denonvilliers' fascia, and is reported to be between 11 and 12 cm (4.3-4.7 in), within the range of the natural female vagina.\n\n"}
{"id": "6459677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6459677", "title": "Hunting tournament", "text": "Hunting tournament\n\nA hunting tournament is a live kill competition where individuals or teams try to kill the largest animal for sport. There are many types of hunting tournaments and they are all scored differently. Some organizations that endorse hunting tournaments are the National Rifle Association and Safari Club International.\n\n"}
{"id": "33065537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33065537", "title": "Infectious Disease Research Institute", "text": "Infectious Disease Research Institute\n\nThe Infectious Disease Research Institute (IDRI) is a non-profit organization based in Seattle, in the United States, and which conducts global health research on infectious diseases.\n\nIDRI was founded in 1993.\n\nIDRI is collaborating with the United States Agency for International Development to develop a malaria vaccine with the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research using Walter Reed's CelTOS malaria antigen in conjunction with IDRI's GLA-SE adjuvant.\n\nOn February 2012, IDRI launched the world’s first clinical trial of the visceral leishmaniasis vaccine. The vaccine is a recombinant form of two fused Leishmania parasite proteins with an adjuvant. Two phase 1 clinical trials with healthy volunteers are to be conducted. The first one takes place in Washington and is followed by a trial in India. The trials are funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "23954859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23954859", "title": "Jewish views on suicide", "text": "Jewish views on suicide\n\nJewish views on suicide are mixed. In Orthodox Judaism, suicide is forbidden by Jewish law, and viewed as a sin. Non-Orthodox forms of Judaism may instead recognize the act as more akin to a death by a disease or disorder (except in cases of purposeful assisted suicide). Rabbinical scholars (certainly in the reformed movements) command compassion both for the deceased and the survivors.\n\nAssisting in suicide and requesting such assistance (thereby creating an accomplice to a sinful act) is also forbidden, a minimal violation of Leviticus 19:14, \"Do not put a stumbling block before the blind\", for the Rabbis interpreted that verse to prohibit any type of stumbling block: theological (e. g., persuading people to believe in false doctrine), economic (e. g., giving bad financial advice), or in this case moral stumbling blocks, as well as physical ones.\n\nThe prohibition against suicide is mentioned in the Talmud in Tractate Bava Kama 91b. Semahot (Evel Rabbati) 2:1–5 serves as the basis for most of later Jewish law on suicide, together with Genesis Rabbah 34:13, which bases the biblical prohibition on Genesis 9:5: \"And surely your blood of your lives, will I require.\"\n\nThe Committee on Jewish Law and Standards, the body of scholars of Jewish law in Conservative Judaism, has published a responsa on suicide and assisted suicide in the Summer 1998 issue of \"Conservative Judaism\", Vol. L, No. 4. It affirms the prohibition, then addresses the growing trend of Americans and Europeans to seek assistance with suicide. The Conservative \"teshuva\" notes that while many people get sick, often with terminal illnesses, most people do not try to kill themselves. The committee believes we are obliged to determine why some seek help with suicide and to ameliorate those circumstances.\n\nThe Conservative response states:\n\nThe paper says the proper response to severe pain is not suicide, but better pain control and more pain medication. Many doctors, it asserts, are deliberately keeping such patients in pain by refusing to administer sufficient pain medications: some out of ignorance; others to avoid possible drug addiction; others from a misguided sense of stoicism. Conservative Judaism holds that such forms of reasoning are \"bizarre\" and cruel, that with today's medications there is no reason for people to be in perpetual torture.\n\nJudaism has many teachings about peace and compromise that present physical violence as one of the last possible options. Although killing oneself is forbidden under normal Jewish law as being a denial of God's goodness in the world, under extreme circumstances, when there has seemed no choice but to either be killed or forced to betray their religion, Jews have committed suicide or mass suicide (see Masada, First French persecution of the Jews, and York Castle for examples). \n\nAs a grim reminder of those times, there is even a prayer in the Jewish liturgy for \"when the knife is at the throat\", for those dying \"to sanctify God's Name\". (See: \"martyrdom\"). These acts have received mixed responses by Jewish authorities; some regard them as examples of heroic martyrdom, and others saying that while Jews should always be willing to face martyrdom if necessary, it was wrong for them to have taken their own lives.\n\nBecause Judaism focuses on this life, many questions to do with survival and conflict (such as the classic moral dilemma of two people in a desert with only enough water for one to survive) were analysed in great depth by the rabbis within the Talmud, in the attempt to understand the principles a godly person should draw upon in such a circumstance.\n"}
{"id": "21005253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21005253", "title": "Job Accommodation Network", "text": "Job Accommodation Network\n\nThe Job Accommodation Network (JAN) is a service provided by the United States Department of Labor's Office of Disability Employment Policy (ODEP). JAN is one of several ODEP technical assistance centers. JAN facilitates the employment and retention of workers with disabilities by providing employers, employment providers, people with disabilities, their family members, and other interested parties with information on job accommodations, entrepreneurship, and related subjects. JAN's efforts are in support of the employment, including self-employment and small business ownership, of people with disabilities.\n\nThe network has been located on the campus of West Virginia University since its inception in 1983. It began with two consultants providing accommodation information over two telephone lines with no computers. At that time, JAN served only employers seeking accommodation information. Because of additional demand for its confidential, direct, and no-cost service, JAN quickly expanded beyond providing information to employers to include rehabilitation and educational professionals, individuals with disabilities, and anyone else interested in workplace accommodations.\n\nInitially, JAN consulted primarily on sensory disabilities, those involving hearing, vision, touch, or speech impairments. Until the early 1990s, about 30 percent of JAN’s requests addressed these disability areas. As computers, office machines, cell phones, wireless communication, and similar technology became common in workplaces, employees with all types of impairments needed to be able to use the technology. As caller questions became more technical, JAN consultants changed to a team approach, dividing into motor / mobility, sensory, and cognitive / neurological teams. A team approach allowed consultants to handle increasing case loads, yet stay current and knowledgeable about rapidly changing technology and products.\n\nWith the implementation of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) in 1992, more individuals began calling JAN and more cases focused on accommodating individuals with motor / mobility impairments. Prior to 1992, JAN averaged 630 accommodation inquiries per month. In 1992, cases soared to over 1,600 per month and continued to steadily rise throughout the 1990s, ending with an average of almost 3,000 per month. JAN now averages 53,000+ inquiries and 5,000,000 Website customers annually.\n\nIn 2000, the JAN staff was evaluated by WESTAT, an employee-owned research corporation serving agencies of the U.S. Government, as well as businesses, foundations, and state and local governments. JAN achieved recognition for achieving the highest score ever awarded by an outside evaluator.\n\nJAN's consultants, each with at least a master's degree in a specialized field, provide information on accommodations for all types of impairments, including sensory, motor, cognitive, and psychiatric conditions. Information is also available about rights and responsibilities under the Americans with Disabilities Act and related legislation. JAN continues to provide resources for veterans and returning wounded and injured military, including support for America's Heroes at Work.\n\nJAN also offers information about entrepreneurship for people with disabilities. JAN consultants handle each inquiry on a case-by-case basis offering self-employment and small business development expertise and referrals regarding business planning, financing strategies, marketing research, disability-specific programs, income supports and benefits planning, e-commerce, independent contracting, home-based business options, and small business initiatives for disabled veterans. JAN customers can expect to receive a resource packet tailored to their specific entrepreneurial goals with consultants available throughout all stages of the process who can provide ongoing supports.\n\nThis technical assistance is provided in English and Spanish and is free of charge via telephone, email, chat, and postal mail. All communications are confidential and available to employers, medical, and rehabilitation professionals, people with disabilities as well as anyone else who is interested in workplace accommodations.\n\nJAN consultants also provide information through other media. JAN produces monthly webcasts on various subjects on concerns related to disabilities or limitations in the workplace. Consultants frequently present at various conferences. Interested parties can also submit requests for local, distant, and remote training events.\n\nJAN supports private employers by providing JAN’s customized Webcasts, Second Life training, online application systems and Website accessibility assessments, and other technical assistance materials designed specifically for their industries' workforce.\n\nJAN has either a partnership or collaboration with the: \n\n"}
{"id": "34633805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34633805", "title": "Kings Cross ER: St Vincent's Hospital", "text": "Kings Cross ER: St Vincent's Hospital\n\nKings Cross ER: St Vincent's Hospital is an Australian factual television show that looks at the work of the Emergency Department at St Vincent's Hospital in Darlinghurst, New South Wales. This observational documentary series began on the Crime and Investigation Network on 2 February 2012. A second season began on 14 February 2013. A third season began in 2015 on the free-to-air Nine Network and currently airs 7:30 pm Thursdays.\n\nThe show was created and produced by John McAvoy. It is narrated by Australian actress Sacha Horler.\n\nSt Vincent's Hospital's emergency department, located in Darlinghurst is one of the busiest in NSW with 42,000 patients presenting each year. It is a level one trauma centre with a catchment area that includes many of Sydney's nightlife precincts including Kings Cross, Sydney's CBD, Rose Bay, Surry Hills, Paddington, Woollahra, Bondi Junction and Double Bay. The hospital's location in Australia's most populous city makes for a diverse catchment area. The program observes the fast-paced work of the emergency department's dedicated doctors and nurses and their interactions with patients and each other.\n\n\n\nKings Cross ER: St Vincent's Hospital has been praised by critics. Graeme Blundell of The Australian applauded the program, writing \"It is thoughtful, thorough, emotional and professional and, rare for reality TV, leaves us with more questions than answers and more hope than despair.\" \n\nIn its first two seasons on the CI Network, Kings Cross ER became the highest rating documentary series in Australian subscription television history. It was subsequently acquired by the Nine Network and its ratings increased on the free-to-air channel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30447879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30447879", "title": "List of The Asylum monsters", "text": "List of The Asylum monsters\n\nThe list containing many of the prehistoric animals, genetic mutations, invading aliens, robots, supernatural entities and other monsters created in various films from The Asylum in various years.\n\nBloody Bill (portrayed by Jeremy Bouvet) appeared in the 2004 movie \"\" and is based on real life Confederate soldier William T. Anderson. Before the events of the movie, he was a notorious for slaying members of the Union and those of African descent. After his sister was killed by vigilantes, he made a pact with Satan that caused the village of Sunset Valley to stand still in a limbo where time stood still and became extremely hard to kill.\n\nUp until the end of the movie, he accumulated one hundred five zombie-like minions that are possessed humans that died by Bloody Bill and his minions, each one having a resistance to pain that allows them to survive otherwise painful injuries like getting shot in the heart and can infect the living by biting them. Bloody Bill himself is strong enough to crush human skulls with his bare hands, is tough enough to withstand grenades at close range, and is equipped with his Confederate saber, the only weapon effective against him. Although not confirmed, his saber is most likely an 1858 Light Cavalry Saber.\n\nThe Martians appear in the 2005 film \"War of the Worlds\" (a.k.a. \"Invasion\"), an adaptation of the novel by H. G. Wells, and its 2008 sequel \"\". They invaded Earth in massive walking war-machines called Squid Walkers to massacre and farm the human populace. They presumably migrated to Earth for the same reason as their novel counterparts - to escape the harsh environment of Mars which was leading them to extinction. After humanity failed to defeat them with conventional weapons, the aliens died due to lack of immunity to earthly bacteria. In the sequel, another race of Martians, a race of biomechanical Tripods, attempt another invasion only to be defeated by George Herbert.\n\nIn the first film, the aliens (not directly stated to be Martians) appear as insectoid creatures rather than the bulkish octopi of Wells' novel. They stand upon four legs, from which they can secrete a corrosive acid. Upon death they are seen to stand erect and paralyzed.\n\nRoger Laforge is an undead pirate who appeared in the 2005 film \"\" portrayed by Rhett Giles. Jolly was killed in 1719 when his disgusted crew rebelled after he murdered the priests and nuns aboard a ship during a raid. Jolly's head was then severed, stuck in a chest, and dumped in the sea. The mutinous crew subsequently used their former captain's treasure to give up their pirate ways and found the town of Cutter's Cove, which the chest containing Jolly's head washed up on the shore of after a hurricane in the modern day. His vengeful spirit released when the chest was opened, Jolly set about murdering the seventeen descendants of his crew, having made a deal with the Devil that will allow him to reclaim his stolen treasure once he acquires the heads of all the descendants.\n\nA demonic being, Roger Laforge can teleport, produce flames from his fingers, possesses superhuman strength, and can sense who his targets are and their exact location. While he usually beheads his victims with a cutlass, Blackbeard also wields both a blunderbuss and spiked chains as weapons.\n\nA list of creatures from a Lost World deep in the Venezuela Plateau appearing in the 2005 movie \"King of the Lost World\".\n\nThe Gigantopithecus is a giant ape that appeared in the 2005 movie \"King of the Lost World\" (a loose adaptation of The Lost World by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle). It is estimated to be 9.8 feet high and has an interest in attacking intruders as it threw a flight attendant in the beginning of the movie. It eventually got intimidated when a plane chases it with a torch. The Gigantopithecus was killed when a nuclear bomb was detonated in the crashed airplane.\n\nThe creature is clearly inspired by the King Kong character, since no such giant ape appears in Conan Doyle's \"The Lost World\".\n\nThe Giant Amazon Spiders appeared in the 2005 movie \"King of the Lost World\". These behemoth spiders live high up in trees and create giant webs to trap prey and cocoon them.\n\nThe Carnivorous Plants appeared in the 2005 movie \"King of the Lost World\". Despite looking very similar to ordinary plants in jungles, these plants are able to blend along as harmless-looking vines but they have a taste for human flesh. Their vines are strong enough to carry an ordinary human being.\n\nThe Giant Amazon Scorpions appeared in the 2005 movie \"King of the Lost World\". Very similar to their real world counterparts, they live in caves and aggressively attack with their stingers on their tails. These creatures also seem to be afraid of sudden, bright flashes made by a camera due to their habitat being dark caves.\n\nThe Amazon Dragons appeared in the 2005 movie \"King of the Lost World\". They are carnivorous reptilian lizard-like creatures with bat wings and serve as Lost World Ape's rivals for food, these dragons attack in huge numbers and are easily killed by the Amazon Ape. They appear to be slightly larger than a normal human being.\n\nAneh-Tet appeared in the 2005 movie \"Legion of the Dead\". An ancient pharaoh that once ruled Giza with an iron fist, she uses her minions of mummified cats to assist her wherever she goes. She is portrayed by Claudia Lynx while her mummies are played by Eddie Beasley, Elissa McKee, and Feldo Nartapura with Mark Heller portrays their field commander, General Alose.\n\nVelku appeared in the 2005 movie \"Shape Shifter\". Hailing from Romania, this satanic werewolf-like entity serves as a crime lord's body guard and the plot of the movie involves Velku trying to save him from prison while killing everyone else. Most of Velku's body is invulnerable, but can be killed if stabbed in the heart. His human form is portrayed by Vaz Andreas while the costume actors were Thomas Downet and Joel Hebner.\n\nAlma appeared in the 2006 movie \"Snakes on a Train\". She was a Spanish woman given an Aztec curse that caused her to spit several corn snakes until she spat venom. After doing so, her head and neck will become that of a King Cobra. Her human form is portrayed by Julia Ruiz.\n\nThe Necromancer Fire Dragon appears in the 2006 movie \"Dragon\". It is a wyvern created by the necromancer Freyja that grew out of control and became a predatory forest monster. It is estimated to be 10 feet tall, 35 feet long, a 30-foot wingspan, and for powers it can fly, exhale flames, and has a bladed tail that is ideal for countering swords. It is eventually killed when a pair of arrows strikes it as it is about to unleash its flames.\n\nThe Kirill Flaming Dragon appeared in the 2009 movie \"Dragonquest\". It is a wyrm created from a volcano by the dark wizard Kirill used to do his bidding.\n\nPowers include flight, encasing itself in flames that can set entire villages aflame by flying fast enough near them, mouth flames, and can telepathically communicate and mind rape using Kirill's messages to humans.\n\nThe Maxim Light Dragon appeared in the 2009 movie \"Dragonquest\". It is a dragon designed to counter Kirill Flaming Dragon from the six Stones of Virtue after they are placed in Maxim's medallion. Although it has no fire-based powers, it has more physical strength.\n\nThe Hillside Cannibals appear in the 2006 film \"Hillside Cannibals\".\n\nApparently descendants of Sawney Bean (portrayed by Leigh Scott), the cannibals live in the caves of the Mojave desert and survive by eating and scavenging off of travelers where the Hillside Cannibals are aided by the local sheriff Lachlan (portrayed by Louis Graham) who is also a cannibal. The \"Sawney Bean\" name is given to the current chief of the cannibals.\n\nThe cannibals (whose weapons include axes, knives, hatchets, shears and machetes) have their own language (though they seem to understand English) and, presumably due to inbreeding, most of them are deformed. Their members include Callum (portrayed by Vaz Andreas), Magnus (portrayed by Frank Pachecho), Rhian (portrayed by Erica Kessler), Tog (portrayed by Marie Westbrook), Towart (portrayed by Thomas Downey), Tearlach (portrayed by Crystal Napoles), Balloch (portrayed by Brian J. Garland), and the unnamed first chief.\n\nOver the course of the film, several of the cannibals (including the current Sawney Bean and his immediate predecessor) are killed by their latest prey and a man hunting them where he was convinced that they either killed or assimilated his daughters. Some of the Hillside Cannibals managed to survive and kill all their assailants with the sole survivor Linda being recaptured and returned to them by Sheriff Lachlan when she manages to escape. The final scene shows the current \"Sawney Bean\" wearing Linda's face and having sex with one of the female cannibals as Linda's corpse rots in the nearby corner.\n\nChristopher \"Chris\" Vale appears in the 2006 film \"Halloween Night\" where his monstrous adult form is played by Scot Nery and his child form is played by Sam Stone. On Halloween in 1982, Chris witnessed two masked men rape and murder his mother, having been hired to do so by his father, who hid his wife's body behind a wall and committed suicide afterward. Institutionalized after this tragedy, Chris, left nearly mute and resembling a charred zombie due to burns inflicted by a steam pipe ruptured during the attack on his mother, escapes exactly ten years after his parents' deaths via murdering two sadistic orderlies playing a Halloween prank and taking one's uniform and Halloween mask.\n\nAcquiring a medieval executioner costume and weapon accessories, specifically an axe, sword and a dagger, by killing a man named Todd and his girlfriend at a gas station, Chris makes his way to his childhood home where a Halloween party is being held after stealing their car. Upon arriving at his former home, Chris murders a number of party guests before uncovering his mother's skeleton and escaping, putting the executioner costume on the party's host, who is mistakenly shot to death by his girlfriend. The next day, Chris is seen walking down a stretch highway, where an oblivious motorist picks him up.\n\nSupercroc appeared in the 2007 movie \"Supercroc\". Roughly 75 feet long, this giant mother crocodile is a descendant of her large ancestors and guarded a nest in California. She had armor thick enough to withstand two bunker buster missiles and was eventually killed when C4 was detonated at her throat.\n\nThe Z-Bots appeared in the 2007 movie \"Transmorphers\" and its prequel \"\". The Primates are robots that originate from an extraterrestrial planet and come in a variety of shapes and sizes. Most z-bots are roughly human-sized while one was several hundred feet tall.\n\nIn the prequel, they produced an oxygen-rich wave that caused Earth's machinery to be turned into hominid-sized rogue agents. The most notable was a truck that used its axles as machine guns, flamethrowers and rocket launchers. This particular zbot agent is affectionately referred to by fans as \"Axlebot\". The robots are known more commonly in the films as \"The Machines\".\n\nThe Nemo Mechanical Squids are pair of robotic squids in the 2007 movie \"30,000 Leagues Under the Sea\". They are estimated to be around 75 feet long, can move extremely fast, are armed with clamps at the ends of their tentacles, and were designed by Captain Nemo to defend the Nautilus. One of them was destroyed by a sea wolf-type submarine while the other was repelled by the Aquanaut 3 emitting an interference signal.\n\nThe Viral Mutants appeared in the 2007 movie \"I Am Omega\". These creatures are mutants created by a flesh-eating virus that evolved to give its host infectious properties and turned them into zombie-like hunters. The virus slowly eats away at their flesh, exposing their spines and other bones structures. They have a hive mind and their teeth, claws and blood are highly infectious.\n\nThe film is based on the novel \"I Am Legend\" by Richard Matheson.\n\nThe Spideroid Aliens appeared in the 2007 movie \"\". Two of these half-humanoid half-spider hybrid creatures arrived via meteorite. The Hunter tracked them down and slayed one, while the other escaped and began killing humans for food. It was killed when humans used the Hunter technology against it.\n\nThe Spideroid Aliens are noted for their deliberate resemblance to the Xenomorphs from the \"Alien\" franchise, though they are green rather than black. They can travel at great speeds on their spider legs. The creature was criticized for the poor CGI animation.\n\nThe Hunter appeared in the 2007 movie \"AVH: Alien vs. Hunter\". This masked human is obsessed with hunting lower species, including human like Xenons and the bull Xenon. Despite being promoted to looking like a Predator from the \"Predator franchise\", the armor appears far similar to the titular monster from \"Zeiram\". Hunter is portrayed by Rob Filson.\n\nMizuchi appeared in the 2008 movie \"Monster\". Very little is known about this creature other than its name meaning \"Dead Water\". Only three tentacles are ever seen. It moves fast enough underground to cause earthquakes.\n\nA list of prehistoric creatures from the Mesozoic Era appearing in the 2008 movie \"100 Million BC\".\n\nBig Red appeared in the 2008 movie \"100 Million BC\". A 60 foot long and 20 foot tall theropod from 70 Million BC, Big Red was accidentally brought into the present day, going on a rampage through Los Angeles. He was eventually teleported back to his own time where he was trapped in a cliff and died. Stock footage of Big Red is used in \"Journey to the Center of the Earth.\" The creature is likely a Tyrannosaurus-like dinosaur due to the presence of Pteranodons and raptors.\n\nThe Dromaeosaurs appeared in the 2008 movie \"100 Million BC\". These killers lived at 112 Million BC and were strong enough to deliver fatal attacks. They were also highly coordinated.\n\nThe Cretactious Dino-Croc appeared in the 2008 movie \"100 Million BC\". It is a crocodile-like creature that survived in the ancient swamps and moved very little.\n\nThe Acid-Spewing Plants appeared in the 2008 movie \"100 Million BC\". These plants resemble plant buds on long stalks. They can spew acid from their buds if threatened.\n\nThe Sauropod appeared in the 2008 movie \"100 Million BC\". These massive sauropods peaceful and herbivorous and are the first prehistoric creature the Navy Seals encounter. It could be an Alamosaurus because it was shown living 70 millions ago.\n\nThe Pteranodon appeared in the 2008 movie \"100 Million BC\". These vicious flying reptiles roam the skies and feed on small creatures.\n\nA list of prehistoric creatures that appeared in the 2008 Asylum film version of Jules Verne's \"Journey to the Center of the Earth.\"\n\nThe Tyrannosaurus is one of the largest land predators ever to exist on Earth. they seem to hunt alone. A Tyrannosaurus ambushes one of the soldiers in the beginning of the film.\n\nThis Trapdoor Spider lives in a chamber which it makes in the desert . Like \nTrapdoor spiders, they feed parts of their kill to the spiderlings in the form of saliva. The spider uses the trip lines of its trapdoor to sense for any small-to-medium-sized creatures that disturb them, and pounces on its victim.\n\nLike ordinary Pteranodons of the same name, these flying reptiles are no threat to the soldiers and probably catch fish in their jaws. Stock footage from 100 Million BC was used for the Pteranodon.\n\nThese Raptors move with surprising speed and seem to hunt alone. One of these vicious beasts tries to hunt the team of soldiers but is killed and cooked by them to be eaten.\n\nThe Lava Worms are unusual creatures that live in the volcano. These enormous worm-like organisms dwell in volcanos and hunt in groups.\n\nThe Man-Eating Plants have snapping jaws held on stem-like bodies, they spray some kind of knock-out gas so that they can consume their prey.\n\nThe Unspecified Sauropod resembles a Diplodocus. It was spotted feeding on leaves by the one of the soldiers from her binoculars. Stock footage from \"100 Million BC\" was used for the sauropod.\n\nThe Unspecified Theropod resembles an Allosaurus. It was spotted feeding on an unknown carcass by one of the soldiers on her binoculars. It has a small row of spines on its back and also has an unusual red pigmentation. Stock footage from \"100 Million BC\" was used for the creature.\n\nThe Giant Chameleon appeared in the 2013 movie called \"\". It's a huge lizard about the size of a Triceratops and yes it is being worshiped by a tribe of invisible-humanoids.\n\nThe MechaBee appeared in the 2013 movie called \"\". It´s a hybrid machine that´s half jet plus it resembles a Giant Bee.\n\nThe Giant Termites appeared in the 2013 movie called \".\"\n\nThe Megaliths are from the 2008 \"The Day the Earth Stopped\". They are extraterrestrial robots, 666 in all, who land in every major capital in the world. In one shot one is standing next to the Eiffel Tower in Paris, presumably making them roughly 1,060 feet tall. They do not start attacking, though. Instead, the benevolent, though hostile aliens controlling the robots present humanity with an ultimatum: Prove the value of human life before the end of the day, or they will destroy the world. The robots spend most of the film standing in the same spot, and lethal force on armed humans is only used twice. They are armed with a device in the right hand which reduces targets into dust. They are also invulnerable to nuclear weapons, as one which was hit by a nuclear rocket emerges seemingly untouched; this scene may be an homage to a similar scene in the 1953 film \"The War of the Worlds\". They are armed with a laser in each palm, a pair of laser cannons in the \"neck\", and an electric beam in the head.\n\nDue to the film's similarities to \"The Day the Earth Stood Still\" and its 2008 remake, it is assumed the Megalists are loosely based on the character Gort, a robot which similarly provokes humanity's fear.\n\nMike Watson appeared in the 2008 movie \"100 Feet\" (not technically an Asylum film as it was distributed by the company). Before the events of the movie, Mike Watson was a violent police officer for the NYPD before he was killed by his wife Marine in self-defense. During the events of the movie, he haunts his apartment as a ghost to ruin his wife's house-arrest sentence and tries to retrieve his stash of stolen money. Mike Watson has typical ghost powers such as invisibility, intangibility, and telekinesis as well as superhuman strength. At the end of the movie, Marine takes off her wedding ring and tells Mike to go away causing him to finally rest in peace.\n\nHe was portrayed by Michael Paré.\n\nThe Giant Octopus appeared in the 2009 movie \"Mega Shark Versus Giant Octopus\". In similar size to Mega Shark, Giant Octopus has a similar history except it roamed the western half of the Pacific, primarily attacking Japan. It died in the final battle with the Mega Shark, presumably through loss of blood. It had notably less screen time than its co-star.\nThe Giant Octopus is briefly mentioned in the sequel \"Mega Shark Versus Crocosaurus\".\n\nThe Capronains are various ancient animals from the island of Caprona in the 2009 film \"The Land That Time Forgot\" (an adaptation of the novel of the same name by Edgar Rice Burroughs).\n\nThe Tyrannosaurus is a ferocious man-eating dinosaur that serve as the apex predator on the island. Only two are seen in the movie, the first is killed off with a grenade while the other is warded off with a petroleum fueled explosion.\n\nThe River Octopus is an octopus that lives near the river shore.\n\nThe Meganeura are giant dragonflies that live near the river's banks; they are completely harmless.\n\nThe Pteranodons are huge flying reptiles that roam the skies of Caprona, they fly in flocks and appear to have a taste for human flesh as they ate one of the survivors of the island.\n\nMaron appeared in the 2009 movie \"Paranormal Entity\". It is an invisible negative presence with its name literally translating to \"nightmare\" in Germanic. Maron haunted the Finley house for nearly three weeks using the guise of David Finley, Ellen Finley's dead husband, to enter the real world due to attraction to her daughter, Samantha. After killing a paranormal investigator and raping Sam, Maron hides all footage of his documentation in the house's attic and his acts are blamed on her brother, Thomas. Said documentation is found one year later and was released publicly.\n\nThe Spiderlinks appeared in the 2009 movie \"Princess of Mars\" (an adaptation of \"A Princess of Mars\", the first in the \"John Carter\" book series by Edgar Rice Burroughs). They are ten foot long spiders that prey on all life in the deserts of the fourth planet of the Alpha Centauri. There is another version living on the planet Mars. Scout variations have wings and locust-like traits. They are heavily inspired by the hopper bugs from Starship Troopers. Infants are about a foot long and many also possess wings.\n\nSpring-Heeled Jack's Monsters appeared in the 2010 film \"Sherlock Holmes\", a film based on the character created by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. These steampunk creatures were created by the film's antagonist Thorpe Holmes (Dominic Keating), Sherlock's estranged and vengeful brother, also known as Spring-Heeled Jack. The three monsters, an octopus, a dinosaur, and a pterosaur were built in Thorpe's attempt to decimate much of southern England and assassinate Queen Victoria in 1882.\n\nThe \"Sea Monster\" is a gigantic octopus appears briefly at the beginning, taking down a Royal Navy treasury ship. It appears only once more towards the end of the film, on display in Spring-Heeled Jack's fortress.\n\nAlso known as the \"Monster of Whitechapel\", the \"Dinosaur\" is a small Tyrannosaurus that is first seen terrorizing Whitechapel and then spends most of the film stealing materials from factories around Whitechapel for further inventions. The creature is revealed to be artificial when Sherlock Holmes discovers that its skin is made from rubber. It is roughly the size than an average man and is noted for its intelligence and speed. Its snout is more similar to that of a Baryonyx than a Tyrannosaurus.\n\nThe \"Dragon\" appears in the climactic battle scene of the film. Thorpe Holmes/Spring-Heeled Jack created a huge mechanical dragon to set fire to London and frame Inspector Lestrade for committing his crimes. Unlike his other inventions, Jack pilots this monster from inside and it is armour-plated instead of featuring synthetic skin. The dragon is destroyed when Sherlock Holmes collides another flying machine directly into it, crashing to the gardens of Buckingham Palace.\n\nThorpe Holmes also created a mechanical female accomplice named Anesidora Ivory. She appears as an attractive middle-class Victorian human but has ice-cold skin and clockwork interiors, similar to the Clockwork Robots of the \"Doctor Who\" universe. She is programmed to pose as the niece of Thorpe's cover identity, and is given the job of destroying Buckingham Palace. Ivory is defeated by Watson, but is seen before the credits in 1940. A pheasant wandering outside Thorpe's hideout is later revealed to be robotic as well, as it malfunctions and deactivates briefly as Thorpe activates his dragon.\n\nThorpe himself, who is an original character, creates a bio-mechanical suit, vaguely resembling a Cyberman from \"Doctor Who\", with 19th-century steampunk touches. This copper suit allows him to overcome his paralysation (caused by being shot in the spine seven years earlier) and with this alter-ego he was affectionately named by the film's producers as Spring-Heeled Jack (named after the mythical creature of the same name). After Holmes solves the case and defeats Thorpe, it is unknown what happens to his creatures. They are likely to have been hidden by Scotland Yard in an attempt to cover up the conspiracy. The mask of Thorpe's suit can be seen in the final shot that features Holmes and Watson together.\n\nThe Mega Piranha appeared in the 2010 movie \"Mega Piranha\". Genetically mutated killing machines, these fish double in size every 72 hours. They are extremely carnivorous, to the point of cannibalism. However, they have little intelligence as they often throw themselves onto dry land in attempts to eat smaller organisms. Once they reached the size of nuclear submarines they are inexplicably invulnerable to nuclear weapons. They are defeated when they are tricked into eating each other.\n\nThe Mega Shark appeared in the 2009 movie \"Mega Shark Versus Giant Octopus\" and three sequels: \"Mega Shark Versus Crocosaurus\", \"Mega Shark Versus Mecha Shark\" and \"Mega Shark vs. Kolossus\". This 1500-foot megalodon was fighting with a Giant Octopus until they were flash-frozen in an iceberg. After being released from the ice the shark rampages across the Pacific. It fought the Giant Octopus and, in the sequels, the Crocosaurus, Mecha Shark, and Kolossus.\n\nIn the second movie, the Megalodon is revealed to be female and in \"Mega Shark Versus Mecha Shark\", the Megalodon was male. She has a difficult time using her senses in low light areas, due to the tumor in her brain. The Megalodon is criticized for its rapid stress changes throughout the films, as well as the films' outlandish plots.\n\nThe 2-Headed Great White Shark appeared in the 2012 movie \"2-Headed Shark Attack\". It is a naturally mutated great white shark with two heads that lived to its adult stage estimated around 40 feet in length. The 2-Headed Great White Shark feeds on the likes of giant squids and megamouths. It also possesses great strength as it used its body to sink an atoll on a coral reef and survived a dynamite sized explosion that took off its left head. This shark is noted to not only have twice the sensory power of a normal great white, but also can maneuver in waters as shallow as four feet deep and presumably has an extremely high metabolism as it consumed twenty-one humans within the course of several hours.\n\nThe design for the 2-Headed Great White Shark was created by Cleve Hall and his family as seen in the \"Monster Man\" episode \"Seeing Double.\" It was originally supposed to have the heads on top of each other, but Cleve Hall pushed to change the design.\n\nThe 3-Headed Great White Shark is an advanced version of the above creature in the 2015 sequel \"3-Headed Shark Attack\" where it sports three heads.\n\nThe 5-Headed Great White Shark is another advanced version of the 2-Headed Great White Shark in the film \"5-Headed Shark Attack\" where it sports five heads in the front and a sixth head at the tip of its tail.\n\nThe \"Cursed Island Monsters\"' appeared in \"The 7 Adventures of Sinbad\". These various mystical creatures originate from an island in another dimension with the portal lying at the top of the Bay of Bengal.\n\nThe Sirens are seductive she-demons that can put their prey into a trance after looking into their eyes that have hypnotising powers, so that they can consume their flesh.\n\nThe Giant Whale is a gigantic whale which the top part of its body resembles a huge island. Sinbad and the others were stranded on the \"island\" and it reveals itself by raising its tail, causing Sinbad and the others to fall into the sea.\n\nThe Colossal Squid is an enormous deep sea monster that is estimated to be over 45 feet long. Although seen at the beginning of the movie attacking an oil rig, it is later discovered to be just a curious animal. It serves as the portal's guardian.\n\nThe Giant Dungeness Crab is a large crab encountered by Sinbad. It steals Sinbad's briefcase filled with money after being irritated by the pistol shots fired by him.\n\nThe Wyverns resemble giant versions of the Rhamphorhynchus. These animals capture Sinbad and his crew to feed to their young only for them to fight them off and flee into a cave.\n\nThe Cave Cyclops is a twelve-foot cyclops armed with a club that lives in a cave. It encounters Sinbad's crew and tries to fight them off until it is stabbed in the eye with a torch and dies by impalement on a stalagmite.\n\nThe Winged Fire Demon is a winged pyrokinetic demon Sinbad encounters in an underground tunnel. Before it can do any real harm to Sinbad, it is destroyed when Sinbad blows up a mountain using C4.\n\nThe Crocosaurus is from \"Mega Shark Versus Crocosaurus\". This giant monster's size is very inconsistent throughout the movie, ranging from 50 to 1500 feet long in various scenes. Originating in Africa, she is capable of producing hundreds of eggs at a time, can burrow underground, and has armor thick enough to withstand bites from Mega Shark with no visible damage. Along with Mega Shark, Crocosaurus and her offspring are killed by volcanic activity while battling off the coast of Hawaii.\n\nAccording to game hunter Nigel Putman, her young are roughly 2–3 feet long when at birth, but 3 year old crocosaurs can be from 13 feet upwards, indicating that some can grow to full adulthood within years in order to keep the species alive.\n\nMoby Dick appeared in the 2010 movie \"Moby Dick\", a very loose adaptation of the novel by Herman Melville. Roughly 57 feet long and swimming up to 36 kilometers an hour, this gigantic, white \"Leviathan melvillei\" primarily lived in polar waters and existed as far back as 1869. According to the photographs and Michelle's estimates, Moby Dick is around 57 feet in length and can swim at amazing speeds. Moby Dick also possesses the ability to breach quickly for a short period of time and in the beginning of the movie he was able to use echolocation to stun objects. This is later proved useless against echolocation-proof submarines. Although hunted by the USS Pequod, it was eventually able to take out the entire crew, sustaining little damage in the process.\n\nMega Pythons appeared in the 2011 movie \"Mega Python vs. Gatoroid\". These pythons actually resemble boa constrictors and grew to at least 20 feet in length, thanks to experimental pheromones. Eventually Mega Pythons are seen to be over 120 feet long with their offspring already the size of normal Burmese Pythons.\n\nThe Giant Alligator appeared in the 2011 movie \"Mega Python vs. Gatoroid\". Unlike the gatoroids that were the result of being fed steroid-injected chickens, this giant American alligator was around long before the beginning of the story. It is estimated to be over 20 feet long. Hunters planned to shoot it, but it was attacked and killed by a Mega Python instead.\n\nGatoroids appeared in the 2011 movie \"Mega Python vs. Gatoroid\". They are American alligators mutated by illegally being fed steroid-injected chickens so they can be used to hunt Mega Pythons. Although usually around 20 feet long, they can grow to over 150 feet and their offspring are the size of normal American alligators. Their attack on Miami used footage from the Miami, Panama Canal, and Hawaii attacks from \"Mega Shark Versus Crocosaurus\" and their attack on Coloumbia used footage from the Yuccatan, Gulf of Mexico, and Hawaii attacks from \"Mega Shark Versus Crocosaurus\".\n\nThe Sauceroid Aliens appear in the 2011 movie \"Battle of Los Angeles\". They use a variety of technologies such as saucers, turrets, and even time travel to invade Earth.\n\nThe MJ12 Sentries are pair of cyborgs that heavily resemble humans. Powers include heavy armor that can withstand point blank machine gun fire, extendable arms that are ideal for impalement, sonic screams, and a floating gyroscope in the head that can cut through obstacles and enemies alike.\n\nThe Hibernation Chamber Guardian is 40 foot mollusk-like organism that guards the sauceroid aliens in their hibernation chamber and is armed with four tentacles. It is eventually destroyed when a grenade is tossed into its mouth.\n\nThe Muspelheim Inhabitants are mystical entities from Muspelheim that are in the 2011 movie \"Almighty Thor\".\n\nThe Muspelheim Jackals are giant jackals commanded by Loki. Despite being very fast and have some armor plating they are easily taken out by close range weapons and have a rather bad sense of smell. They are estimated to be eight feet tall and eleven feet long.\n\nAlso commanded by Loki, the Muspelheim Land Worm is large lizard-like creatures with a head like a hammerhead shark and lacking legs while having arms to move around. Although stronger than the jackals, they too are taken out by close range weapons. They are estimated to be ten feet tall and twenty-five feet long.\n\nThe VM2 Zombies are various infected entities that appeared in the 2011 movie \"Zombie Apocalypse\". The VM2 viral strain originated in Europe and managed to become a global pandemic within the course of the month of its creation. The virus can be transmitted by physical contact and will infect within the course of a minute; during this time the veins and arteries will convulse and the eyes will change before the brain is fully infected.\n\nThe Standard VM2 Zombies are primary infected entities designed to carry the plague, although are easily distracted by loud noises. Loners are referred to as Stragglers used to scout for potential food. These zombies can survive minor brain damage such as arrow impalement as long as there is enough blood flowing into it.\n\nJulian's Dog is a stray dog that followed the survivors because Julian tried to feed it and it became infected with the VM2 strain. Its only know capability is the ability to jump far.\n\nThe Runners are the faster and more predatory versions of the standard VM2 zombie.\n\nThe VM2 Tigers are two infected tigers that hunt the survivors at the end of the movie. They were able to withstand multiple arrows being struck into it, being assaulted by a katana, and a sledge hammer to the face.\n\nRobo Hitler appeared in the 2012 movie \"Nazis at the Center of the Earth\". After Adolf Hitler's head was recovered by Dr. Josef Mengele, it was preserved deep under Antarctica until the year 2005 where his brain was reactivated by stem cells and a 12-foot-tall robotic suit of armor. With this suit, Robo Hitler commanded the Nazi flying saucer to fire missiles armed with flesh eating bacteria until his saucer crashed by a suicide attempt by one of the doctors held hostage. Robo Hitler met his end when flesh-eating bacteria was inserted into his brain and upon falling into the Antarctic Ocean.\n\nRobo Hitler is armed with a spear-like blade in each arm, a machine gun in the right arm, a fire extinguisher in his right index finger, and a torso laser designed to take down aircraft such as jets. This robotic suit could also easily jump around 30 feet in the air.\n\nThe Floater Bug Aliens appear in the 2012 movie \"American Warships\". They are cockroach-like aliens capable of hovering and are armed with a trigger-less flamethrower that launches radioactive fire balls. Using wreckage from sunken ships, they use a stealth ship with an LCD screen for camouflage armed with EMP missiles. The aliens thrive in radioactive environments and have a set of jaws on their abdomen that can chomp a human in half with little effort and have an exoskeleton strong enough to survive bazooka shells. They were eventually defeated by the crew of the USS \"Iowa\".\n\nBigfoot appears in the 2012 movie \"Bigfoot\". It is a 20 foot tall carnivorous ape that roamed the forests of South Dakota. As it tried to hibernate one winter, a combination of construction equipment and a rock festival prevented it from going to sleep. This caused Bigfoot to attack in order to correct its biological imbalance of sense of time. Bigfoot is noted to have a short resistance to pain as it almost withstood having half his face burned off and barely flinched. It was killed by a barrage of missiles while it was on top of Mount Rushmore.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2965208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2965208", "title": "List of medical organizations", "text": "List of medical organizations\n\nThe following is a list of medical organizations:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50733936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50733936", "title": "Louise Stevens Bryant", "text": "Louise Stevens Bryant\n\nLouise Stevens Bryant (1885–1956) was an American public health specialist, writer, editor and publicist. She was especially involved in the fields of human sexuality and maternal health, and was the executive secretary of Robert Latou Dickinson's Committee on Maternal Health from 1927 to 1935.\n\nBryant attended Smith College and graduated with a Bachelor of Science in 1908. She then worked at the Russell Sage Foundation, where she worked in school reform, followed by the University of Pennsylvania, where she worked in Lightner Witmer's clinical psychology clinic for children and simultaneously studied for a PhD in medical science which she received in 1914. After completing her PhD, she worked at the Philadelphia Municipal Court, first as chief of the criminal department's division for women, and then, during the war, as a statistician for the chief of staff. From 1919 to 1923 she worked for the Girl Scouts of the USA as the educational and publications secretary.\n\nIn 1923, Bryant joined the public health field as an employee of the New York-based Committee on Dispensary Development. In 1927 she was hired by Robert Latou Dickinson as the executive secretary of the National Committee on Maternal Health (CMH). During Bryant's time as secretary, she edited numerous CMH publications, including \"Control of Conception\", a 1931 handbook of contraceptive techniques, and other academic studies on sexology, contraception, abortion and sterility. She left the CMH in 1935 after a disagreement with Dickinson.\n\nBryant served as the American representative of the English sexologist Havelock Ellis and helped him to negotiate the second American publication of his seven-volume work \"Studies in the Psychology of Sex\" in 1933. She worked as a publicist for the American Association of University Women from 1938 to 1952.\n\nLouise Stevens Bryant married Arthur Bryant in 1909; they divorced in 1912. Her romantic partner for almost 35 years was Lura Beam, a writer and teacher. They met in the 1920s while both were working for the CMH. After Bryant's death in 1956, Beam published a biography about her titled \"Bequest From a Life; a Biography of Louise Stevens Bryant\" (1963).\n\n"}
{"id": "55561445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55561445", "title": "Mae Brown", "text": "Mae Brown\n\nMae Brown (1935-1973) was the second deaf-blind woman and the first deaf-blind Canadian to earn a university degree. She graduated from the University of Toronto Scarborough in 1972.\n\nBrown was born in Thunder Bay in 1935. Her sight and hearing deteriorated throughout her childhood; by high school her vision had deteriorated to the point where she could not read a blackboard, and she dropped out. An operation performed on Brown later in her teens to remove a brain tumor led to the complete loss of her hearing as well.\n\nBrown registered with the Canadian National Institute for the Blind, who provided her with training in communication methods such as Braille, and employment. CNIB also provided Brown with a tutor to help her complete her high school education. When Brown enrolled at the University of Toronto, the CNIB found an interpreter for her, Joan Mactavish, as well as a team of 35 volunteers who translated Brown's textbooks into Braille. Mactavish translated lectures and exams for Brown using finger-spelling into Brown's hand. Brown was able to give her responses orally. Some exams took multiple days to complete using this process, and Brown's degree in history and psychology ultimately took 5 years for her to earn.\n\nAfter graduating, Brown returned to employment with CNIB, becoming their head of deaf-blind affairs and implementing networks and services for deaf-blind people in Canada. These included social groups, publications, and testing of technological devices.\n\nBrown died suddenly in 1973 of another brain tumor. An autopsy revealed that it and the numerous other tumors within her body were caused by neurofibromatosis. Her college tutor, Joan Mactavish, continued to implement her ideas for deaf-blind interventions after Brown's death. Their joint work was recognized by their induction into the Terry Fox Hall of Fame in 2002.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "14000810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14000810", "title": "Maledictology", "text": "Maledictology\n\nMaledictology (from Latin \"maledicere\", \"to say [something] (\"dicere\") bad (\"male\")\" and Greek \"logia\", \"study of\") is a branch of psychology that does research into cursing and swearing. It is influenced by American psychologist Timothy Jay (Massachusetts College of Liberal Arts) and the philologist and researcher in swearwords Reinhold Aman (California). They assume that swearing is part of human life and can even act as a passive self-defense, since it prevents palpable argument.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "965553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=965553", "title": "Medical malpractice in the United States", "text": "Medical malpractice in the United States\n\nMedical malpractice is professional negligence by act or omission by a health care provider in which the treatment provided falls below the accepted standard of practice in the medical community and causes injury or death to the patient, with most cases involving medical error. Claims of medical malpractice, when pursued in US courts, are processed as civil torts. Sometimes an act of medical malpractice will also constitute a criminal act, as in the case of the death of Michael Jackson.\n\nMedical professionals may obtain professional liability insurances to offset the costs of lawsuits based on medical malpractice. Further establishment of conditions of intention or malice may be applied where applicable.\n\nBack in 1984, the extrapolated statistics from relatively few records in only several states of the United States estimated that between 44,000-98,000 people annually die in hospitals because of medical errors. Much work has been done since then, including work by the author of that study who moved on from those low estimates back in the 1990s. For example, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention currently says that 75,000 patients die annually, in hospitals alone, from infections alone - just one cause of harm in just one kind of care setting. From all causes there have been numerous other studies, including \"A New, Evidence-based Estimate of Patient Harms Associated with Hospital Care\" by John T. James, PhD that estimates 400,000 unnecessary deaths annually in hospitals alone. Using these numbers, medical malpractice is the third leading cause of death in the United States, only behind heart disease and cancer. Less than one quarter of care takes place in hospitals. Across all care settings the numbers are higher.\n\nAnother study notes that about 1.14 million patient-safety incidents occurred among the 37 million hospitalizations in the Medicare population over the years 2000-2002. Hospital costs associated with such medical errors were estimated at $324 million in October 2008 alone.\n\nApproximately 17,000 malpractice cases are filed in the U.S. each year.\n\nThe plaintiff is/ was the patient, or a legally designated party acting on behalf of the patient, orin the case of a wrongful death suitthe executor or administrator of a deceased patient's estate.\n\nThe defendant is the health care provider. Although a 'health care provider' usually refers to a physician, the term includes any medical care provider, including dentists, nurses, and therapists. As illustrated in \"Columbia Medical Center of Las Colinas v Bush\", 122 S.W. 3d 835 (Tex. 2003), \"following orders\" may not protect nurses and other non-physicians from liability when committing negligent acts. Relying on vicarious liability or direct corporate negligence, claims may also be brought against hospitals, clinics, managed care organizations or medical corporations for the mistakes of their employees and contractors.\n\nIn 2013, BMJ Open performed a study in which they found that \"failure to diagnose\" accounted for the largest portion of medical malpractice claims brought against health professionals. Furthermore, the study found that the most common result of this negligence was death of the patient. The other most common categories of malpractice include negligent treatment and failure to warn.\n\nThus, when a patient claims injury as the result of a medical professional's care, a malpractice case will most often be based upon one of three theories:\n\n\nA plaintiff must establish all five elements of the tort of negligence for a successful medical malpractice claim.\n\nIn cases involving suicide, physicians and particularly psychiatrists may be to a different standard than other defendants in a tort claim. In most tort cases, suicide is legally viewed as an act which terminates a chain of causality. Although the defendant may be held negligent for another's suicide, he or she is not responsible for damages which occur after the act. An exception is made for physicians who are found to have committed malpractice that results in a suicide, with damages assessed based on losses that are proved likely to accrue after the act of suicide.\n\nLike all other tort cases, the plaintiff or their attorney files a lawsuit in a court with appropriate jurisdiction. However, unlike other tort cases, many states require that a plaintiff take specific steps before a medical malpractice lawsuit can be filed, such as providing the defendant with advance notice of intent to sue, obtaining and filing with the court a \"certificate of merit\" from a qualified medical expert who attests to the validity of the plaintiff's cause of action, submitting the claim to a panel of legal and medical experts for evaluation, or participating in mediation in an attempt to resolve the claim without litigation.\n\nBetween the filing of suit and the trial, the parties are required to share information through discovery. Such information includes interrogatories, requests for documents and deposition. If both parties agree, the case may be settled pre-trial on negotiated terms. If the parties cannot agree, the case will proceed to trial.\n\nThe plaintiff has the burden of proof to prove all the elements by a preponderance of evidence. At trial, both parties will usually present experts to testify as to the standard of care required, and other technical issues. The fact-finder (judge or jury) must then weigh all the evidence and determine which side is the most credible.\n\nThe fact-finder will render a verdict for the prevailing party. If the plaintiff prevails, the fact-finder will assess damages within the parameters of the judge's instructions. The verdict is then reduced to the judgment of the court. The losing party may move for a new trial. In a few jurisdictions, a plaintiff who is dissatisfied by a small judgment may move for additur. In most jurisdictions, a defendant who is dissatisfied with a large judgment may move for remittitur. Either side may take an appeal from the judgment.\n\nExpert witnesses must be qualified by the Court, based on the prospective experts qualifications and the standards set from legal precedent. To be qualified as an expert in a medical malpractice case, a person must have a sufficient knowledge, education, training, or experience regarding the specific issue before the court to qualify the expert to give a reliable opinion on a relevant issue. The qualifications of the expert are not the deciding factors as to whether the individual will be qualified, although they are certainly important considerations. Expert testimony is not qualified \"just because somebody with a diploma says it is so\" (\"United States v. Ingham\", 42 M.J. 218, 226 [A.C.M.R. 1995]). In addition to appropriate qualifications of the expert, the proposed testimony must meet certain criteria for reliability. In the United States, two models for evaluating the proposed testimony are used:\n\nThe more common (and some believe more reliable) approach used by all federal courts and most state courts is the 'gatekeeper' model, which is a test formulated from the US Supreme Court cases \"Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals\" (509 U.S. 579 [1993]), \"General Electric Co. v. Joiner\" (522 U.S. 136 [1997]), and \"Kumho Tire Co. v. Carmichael\" (526 U.S. 137 [1999]). Before the trial, a Daubert hearing will take place before the judge (without the jury). The trial court judge must consider evidence presented to determine whether an expert's \"testimony rests on a reliable foundation and is relevant to the task at hand.\" (Daubert, 509 U.S. at 597).\nThe Daubert hearing considers 4 questions about the testimony the prospective expert proposes:\n\nSome state courts still use the Frye test that relies on scientific consensus to assess the admissibility of novel scientific evidence. Daubert expressly rejected the earlier federal rule's incorporation of the Frye test. (Daubert, 509 U.S. at 593-594) Expert testimony that would have passed the Frye test is now excluded under the more stringent requirements of Federal Rules of Evidence as construed by Daubert.\n\nIn view of Daubert and Kuhmo, the pre trial preparation of expert witnesses is critical. A problem with Daubert is that the presiding judge may admit testimony which derives from highly contested data. The judge may expand the limits contained in the \"school of thought\" precedent. Papers that are self-published may be admiited as the basis for expert testimony. Non-peer reviewed journals may also be admitted in similar fashion. The only criterion is the opinion of a single judge who, in all likelihood, has no relevant scientific or medical training.\n\nMany states also require that a certificate of merit before a malpractice lawsuit be filed which requires a report from a medical physician that the physician accused of negligence breached the standard of care and caused injury to the patient.\n\nThe plaintiff's damages may include compensatory and, in some states and under qualifying circumstances, punitive damages.\n\nCompensatory damages are both economic and non-economic. \n\nThere is only a limited time during which a medical malpractice lawsuit can be filed. In the United States, these time limits are set by statute. In civil law systems, similar provisions are usually part of the civil code or criminal code and are often known collectively as \"periods of prescription\" or \"prescriptive periods.\" The length of the time period and when that period begins vary per jurisdiction and type of malpractice. Therefore, each state has different time limits set.\nFor example, in Pennsylvania, there is a two-year statute of limitation, but in other states the limitations period may be longer. Most states have special provisions for minors that may potentially extend the statute of limitations for a minor who has been injured as the result of medical malpractice.\n\nA 2011 study in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" reported that 75% of physicians in \"low-risk\" specialties and virtually 100% of physicians in \"high-risk\" specialties could expect to face a malpractice claim during their careers. However, the authors also noted that the vast majority of malpractice claims did not lead to any indemnity payments.\n\nMost (73%) settled malpractice claims involve medical error. A 2006 study concluded that claims without evidence of error \"are not uncommon, but most [72%] are denied compensation. The vast majority of expenditures [54%] go toward litigation over errors and payment of them. The overhead costs of malpractice litigation are exorbitant.\" Physicians examined the records of 1452 closed malpractice claims. Ninety-seven percent were associated with injury; of them, 73% got compensation. Three percent of the claims were not associated with injuries; of them, 16% got compensation. 63% were associated with errors; of them, 73% got compensation (average $521,560). Thirty-seven percent were not associated with errors; of them, 28% got compensation (average $313,205). Claims not associated with errors accounted for 13 to 16% percent of the total costs. For every dollar spent on compensation, 54 cents went to administrative expenses (including lawyers, experts, and courts). Claims involving errors accounted for 78 percent of administrative costs.\n\nA 2004 study of medical malpractice claims in the United States examining primary care malpractice found that though incidence of negligence in hospitals produced a greater proportion of severe outcomes, the total number of errors and deaths due to errors were greater for outpatient settings. No single medical condition was associated with more than five percent of all negligence claims, and one-third of all claims were the result of misdiagnosis.\n\nMale doctors have nearly two and half times increased odds of having medico-legal action taken against them than female doctors, a result consistent across many years and found internationally.\n\nDoctors' groups, patients, and insurance companies have criticized medical malpractice litigation as expensive, adversarial, unpredictable, and inefficient. They claim that the cost of medical malpractice litigation in the United States has steadily increased at almost 12 percent annually since 1975. More recent research from the same source has found that tort costs as a percentage of GDP dropped between 2001 and 2009, and are now at their lowest level since 1984. Jury Verdict Research, a database of plaintiff and defense verdicts, says awards in medical liability cases increased 43 percent in 1999, from $700,000 to $1,000,000. However, more recent research from the U.S. Department of Justice has found that median medical malpractice awards in states range from $109,000 to $195,000.\n\nThese critics assert that these rate increases are causing doctors to go out of business or move to states with more favorable tort systems. Not everyone agrees, though, that medical malpractice lawsuits are solely causing these rate increases. A 2003 report from the General Accounting Office found multiple reasons for these rate increases, with medical malpractice lawsuits being the primary driver. Despite noting multiple reasons for rate increases, the report goes on to state that the \"GAO found that losses on medical malpractice claims-which make up the largest part of insurers’ costs-appear to be the primary driver of rate increases in the long run.\" More recent data has indicated that medical malpractice rates are generally no longer rising. In 2011, data pooled from the industry by the publication Medical Liability Monitor indicated that medical malpractice insurance rates had declined for four straight years. The decrease was seen in both states that had enacted tort reform and in states that had not, leading actuaries familiar with the data to suggest that patient safety and risk management campaigns had had a more significant effect.\n\nThe major tort reform proposals have been:\n\nThe majority of the American public supports reforms to the malpractice system. However, surveys show that the majority of the American public also vastly underestimate the extent of medical errors.\nRecent research has shown that while both health consumers and health producers are concerned about some of the adverse consequences of healthcare litigation, health consumers perceive that increased healthcare litigation can reduce the incentives for negligence on the part of healthcare providers.\n\nAt the same time, studies of these claims have found that there is no problem of increasing malpractice verdicts and insurance costs driving doctors out of business.\n\nThe traditional approach to liability reform is to limit the amount of damages that can be recovered by a plaintiff (as noted above). Several new approaches to addressing medical malpractice have been investigated.\n\nCommunication and Resolution Programs: When a medical error is identified, the patient is approached by the physician and/or health care system and they mutually arrive at a settlement. Several laws have been passed to facilitate communication and resolution (Mandatory presuit notification laws, apology laws and State-facilitated dispute resolution laws).\n\nSafe Harbors for Adherence to Practice Guidelines: This approach provides a defense for physicians if they follow pre approved clinical practice guidelines.\n\nJudge-directed compensation: A group of judges with expertise in medical malpractice meet with each sides attorneys and negotiates a settlement between the parties.\n\nAdministrative Compensation:Sweden and New Zealand created health courts. Claims are sent to these courts that have the authority to settle a claim. Attorneys are not required and the claims are settled based the opinions of neutral experts. Compensation is awarded based on preset schedules and are based on the degree of injury.\n\nMany jurisdictions placed non-economic damages caps that limit the amount that victims of medical malpractice can recover from negligent physicians, purportedly in an effort to decrease hospital and physician costs.\n\nIn California, for example, recovery for non-economic damages are limited to $250,000. According to the Supreme Court of California, \"noneconomic damages compensate the plaintiff for 'pain, suffering, inconvenience, physical impairment, disfigurement and other nonpecuniary damage [as per Cal.Civ.Code section 3333.2, subdivision (a)].' Section 1431.2, subdivision (b)(2) similarly defines noneconomic damages as 'subjective, non-monetary losses including, but not limited to, pain, suffering, inconvenience, mental suffering, emotional distress, loss of society and companionship, loss of consortium, injury to reputation and humiliation.'” Tort reform supporters argue that states have enacted such laws in order to keep health care costs low, in addition to helping curb medical malpractice litigation. However, according to the Supreme Court of California, the state's non-economic damages caps are \"not a legislative attempt to estimate the true damages suffered by plaintiffs, but rather an attempt to control and reduce medical malpractice insurance costs by placing a predictable, uniform limit on the defendant's liability for noneconomic damages.\"\n\nTexas law creates the most difficult \"hurdles\" in the United States for a plaintiff to succeed in recovering damages for any medical malpractice, even for such objective cases such as an emergency room exposure to the Ebola virus disease.\n\nTexas passed a \"tort reform\" law taking effect on September 1, 2003. The act limited non-economic damages (e.g., damages for pain and suffering) in most malpractice cases to $250,000 across all healthcare providers and $250,000 for healthcare facilities, with a limit of two facilities per claim. As of 2013, Texas was one of 31 states to cap non-economic damages.\n\nFollowing 2003, medical malpractice insurance rates were reduced in Texas. However, the Center for Justice & Democracy at New York Law School reports that rate reductions are likely attributable not to tort laws, but because of broader trends, such as \"political pressure, the size of prior rate hikes, and the impact of the industry's economic cycle, causing rates to drop everywhere in the country.\" States which do not impose caps on malpractice damages, such as Connecticut, Pennsylvania, and Washington, have experienced reductions or stabilization in malpractice rates as well.\n\nVarious studies have shown that the Texas tort-reform law has had no effect on healthcare costs or the number of physicians practicing in the state. A February 2014 study found \"no evidence to support\" the claim that \"there had been a dramatic increase in physicians moving to Texas due to the improved liability climate.\" The study found that this is true \"for all patient care physicians in Texas, high-malpractice-risk specialties, primary care physicians, and rural physicians.\n\nPlaintiffs' lawyers say that the Texas law prevents patients from getting compensation or damages even in cases where the patient clearly deserves it. In particular, the “willful and wanton” negligence standard for emergency care, which requires that the harm to the patient be intentional, makes it impossible to win a case where the harm is clearly negligent but not willful.\n\nAn August 2003 National Bureau of Economic Research paper by Katherine Baicker and Amitabh Chandra found that (1) \"increases in malpractice payments made on behalf of physicians do not seem to be the driving force behind increases in premiums\"; (2) \"increases in malpractice costs (both premiums overall and the subcomponent factors) do not seem to affect the overall size of the physician workforce, although they may deter marginal entry, increase marginal exit, and reduce the rural physician workforce\"; and (3) \"there is little evidence of increased use of many treatments in response to malpractice liability at the state level, although there may be some increase in screening procedures such as mammography.\"\n\nA 1996 study by Daniel P. Kessler and Mark McClellan analyzing data on elderly Medicare beneficiaries treated for two serious cardiac diseases in 1984, 1987, and 1990 determined that \"malpractice reforms that directly reduce provider liability pressure lead to reductions of 5 to 9 percent in medical expenditures without substantial effects on mortality or medical complications.\"\n\nA a 2004 Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report using data from a private actuarial firm and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) found that malpractice costs (excluding \"defensive medicine\") account for less than 2 percent of health care spending. A 2006 PriceWaterhouseCoopers report for America's Health Insurance Plans (a health-insurer trade association) used the 2 percent figure and an extrapolation from the Kessler and McClellan report to estimate that the combined cost of insurance and defensive medicine accounts for 10 percent of total health care costs in the U.S.\n\nIn 2009, the CBO \"concluded that implementing a package of five malpractice reforms would reduce national health spending by about 0.5 percent.\"\n\nA study by Michelle M. Mello and others published in the journal \"Health Affairs\" in 2010 estimated that the total annual cost of the medical liability system, including \"defensive medicine,\" was about 2.4 percent of total U.S. health care spending. The authors noted that \"this is less than some imaginative estimates put forward in the health reform debate, and it represents a small fraction of total health care spending,\" although it was not \"trivial\" in absolute terms.\n\nA study by RAND Corp. researchers published in October 2014 in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" concluded that laws restricting medical-malpractice suits do not reduce the amount of \"defensive medicine\" or reduce health-care costs. The researchers, led by Daniel A. Waxman, examined 3.8 million Medicare patient records from hospital emergency departments from 1997 to 2011, comparing care in three states that enacted strict malpractice reform laws about a decade earlier (Georgia, Texas and South Carolina) to care in neighboring states that did not enact such laws. The study found that the laws had no effect on whether doctors ordered resource-intensive care (e.g., CT or MRI scans and hospitalization).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19991299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19991299", "title": "Olainfarm", "text": "Olainfarm\n\nOlainfarm AS is a Latvian leading manufacturer in the chemical and pharmaceutical sector of the Baltic States.\n\nThe company was founded in 1972 as state enterprise \"Olaines ķīmiski – farmaceitiskā rūpnīca\" (Olaine Chemical-Pharmaceutical Plant). The main goal of founding the company was to ensure pharmaceutical substances and semiproducts to several finished drug form manufacturing plants in the Soviet Union. As a result of privatization in 1997, the company was reorganized into a joint stock company, and its shares were listed on stock exchange.\n\nOlainfarm produces over 60 final dosage forms, 25 active pharmaceutical ingredients and 20 intermediates. The product portfolio is well diversified with the main emphasis on branded products, historically unique to Olainfarm. The key areas of specialization in final dosage forms include neurology (cholinesterase inhibitors, anxiolytics, psychostimulants, nootropics), cardiology (antiarrhythmics, energy metabolism enhancers), infectology (original nitrofurantoine derivatives and antivirals) and allergology (fast acting antihistamines).\n\nOlainfarm is certified in accordance with the requirements of the EU GMP for APIs and FDFs, the U.S. cGMP for certain APIs (FDA), TGA for FDFs (Australia), CEP for certain APIs, ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and ISO 17025 Laboratory Management System.\n\nProof of the high quality of the Olainfarm products is cooperation with such global and regionally acknowledged companies as Novartis, Dr. Reddy’s, Glenmark Generics, Sigma AU, Almirall Ranke, UQUIFA, MIAT, Actavis, Teva, Egis, PHF and many others. Since 2011 Olainfarm supplies anti-tuberculosis medication to the World Health Organization.\n\nRepresentative offices in Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Tajikistan, Albania, Armenia, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Uzbekistan and Mongolia, subsidiaries in Latvia, Lithuania, Belarus, Russia, Turkey, Azerbaijan and Kyrgyzstan, and contracted agents in the USA, Serbia, Turkmenistan, Moldova, Sweden and Southeast Asia.\n\nOlainfarm exports to more than 40 countries worldwide, export share is near 85%. Main export markets are Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, The Netherlands, Kazakhstan, UK and Poland. Farthest export market – Australia.\n\nOn 4 December 1965, the Council of Ministers of the Latvian Soviet Socialist Republic adopted a decision on construction of a chemical-pharmaceutical factory in the town of Olaine.\n\nIn 1968, construction of the factory was commenced.\n\nThe first operation of furagin synthesis was carried out on 10 October 1972. That day is considered as the day of commencement of the operation of the Company, which at that time was named Olaines ķīmiski-farmaceitiskā rūpnīca (Olaine Chemical-Pharmaceutical Plant).\n\nIn 1976, Olaine Chemical-Pharmaceutical Plant became the leading manufacturer in Latvbiofarm association. The production capacity of the enterprise made it possible to supply all the existing factories-manufacturers in the territory of the Soviet Union with active chemical ingredients and semiproducts of corresponding groups.\n\nIn 1980, synthesis of 15 products was developed. After a while, the management of the enterprise made a decision to produce also finished forms of medicaments.\n\nIn 1991, historical changes occurred in the political and economic situation in all the former USSR countries, including Latvia. These changes affected also the operation of Olaine Chemical-Pharmaceutical Plant; therefore, a decision was made to develop the strongest lines of synthesis (adamantine, quinuclidinone, and other derivatives) for selling products to Western countries.\n\nState enterprise Olaine Chemical-Pharmaceutical Plant was privatized in 1997. As a result of the privatization, the enterprise was reorganized into the joint stock company Olainfarm, and its shares were listed on the secondary list of Riga Stock Exchange.\n\nIn 2001, after successful audits conducted by such well-known companies as Cilag (Switzerland), Johnson & Johnson (USA) and Sanofi (France), the Company entered the global market as its actual participant in production of active chemical ingredients.\n\nIn 2002, certificate was obtained according to the inspection requirements of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).\n\nFrom 2003 to 2004 grandiose reconstruction of the manufacturing plant was finished in compliance with the requirements of Good Manufacturing Practice of the European Union.\n\nOn 30 July 2004, JSC Olainfarm obtained a Good Manufacturing Practice certificate of compliance. This certificate symbolized the start of a new period in the Company’s history.\n\nIn 2005, Shareholders of JSC Olainfarm decided on increasing the fixed capital of the Company by 3 million Lats, to 13.25 million Lats.\n\nIn 2006, Considering the positive development dynamics of the Company and the quality of investor relations, shares of the Company were transferred to the most prestigious Main List of the Baltics. Popular anti-virus preparation Remantadīns® (Remantadine) was registered as the first of the Company’s manufactured medicaments in Poland.\n\nIn 2007, JSC Olainfarm received the Baltic Stock Exchange award for the best investor relations on the Internet in 2007.\n\nIn 2008, JSC Olainfarm opened a representation office in Vietnam and started an ambitious sale promotion programme in important sales markets.\n\nAt the award ceremony of newspaper Dienas bizness for Top 500 most successful companies in Latvia, in 2009 JSC Olainfarm received the special award from NASDAQ OMX Riga as the company of the stock exchange with the highest share price increase from early 2009 to 1 November. The Company’s share price in 2009 increased by 160%.\n\nIn 2010, The Company registered its representation offices in Serbia and Tajikistan. The first registered product in Serbia was anti-virus preparation Remavir®.\n\nIn 2011, When the sales promotion programme, which started in 2008, showed significant results, the Company set even higher new records of profit and turnover. For the first time in its history, the Company’s shareholders decided to pay dividends in the amount of 10% from the previous year profit. Olainfarm started building its own chain of pharmacies Latvijas aptieka.\n\nIn 2013, Olainfarm acquired controlling stake in the leading Latvian food supplement company Silvanols.\n\nIn 2014, Olainfarm won the Export Champion 2014 Award at the competition is organized by the Latvian Economics Ministry and the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia (LIAA).\n\nOn 13 January 2015, JSC Olainfarm opened the new finished drug manufacturing plant, which was created with investments of 9.6 million. It consists of a nitrofurane production facility, a production facility of small finished drug series, and a laboratory for the development of finished drug forms.\n\nOn 20 January 2016, JSC Olainfarm concludes an agreement on the purchase of 100% of capital shares of the manufacturer of organic cosmetics Kiwi Cosmetics Ltd.\nOn 28 January, JSC Olainfarm receives an award in the decade nomination \"Best 10-year performance\" for the biggest share price growth and an increase the Baltic Market Awards ranking. On 12 May 2016, JSC Olainfarm signed an agreement about acquiring 100% shares in Tonus Elast Ltd., producer of elastic medical products.\n\nIn 2017, Longgo, a subsidiary of JSC Olainfarm, offering modern natural products for health and well-being was founded on July 13.\n\nOn 21 July, JSC Olainfarm was registered in the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia as the only owner of LLC Olaines veselības centrs. Olaines veselības centrs (the name was changed to OlainMed in January 2018) provides outpatient healthcare services in Olaine.\n\nJSC Olainfarm receives the award from the Employers’ Confederation of Latvia (LDDK) as the best employer in the Riga region in 2017. The company also received this award in 2015.\n\nValērijs Maligins, long-term Chairman of the Board and main shareholder of JSC Olainfarm, passed away on December 9.\n\n\nSupervisory Council \n\nManagement Board \n"}
{"id": "31324043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31324043", "title": "Orphan Drug Act of 1983", "text": "Orphan Drug Act of 1983\n\nThe Orphan Drug Act of 1983 is a law passed in the United States to facilitate development of orphan drugs — drugs for rare diseases such as Huntington's disease, myoclonus, ALS, Tourette syndrome and muscular dystrophy which affect small numbers of individuals residing in the United States.\n\nOrphan drug designation does not indicate that the therapeutic is either safe and effective or legal to manufacture and market in the United States. That process is handled through other offices in the US Food and Drug Administration. Instead, the designation means only that the sponsor qualifies for certain benefits from the federal government, such as reduced taxes.\n\nIn 1982 an informal coalition of supporters and families of patients with rare diseases who formed National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD) and others, called for change to legislation to support development of orphan drugs, or drugs for treating rare diseases. They succeeded in getting the United States Congress to pass the Orphan Drug Act (ODA) in early 1983. Only thirty-eight orphan drugs had been approved prior to the 1983 Act; by 2014 \"468 indication designations covering 373 drugs have been approved.\" Partly as a result of the 1983 US Orphan Drug Act, Japan adopted it in 1993 as did the European Union in 2000.\n\nIn response to incidents such as difficulties with thalidomide the Kefauver-Harris Amendment was passed in 1962 as an amendment to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Kefauver-Harris required that all drugs approved for sale be proven safe and effective via rigorous scientific studies. While this legislation improved drug safety, it also dramatically increased the costs associated with developing new medicines. Pharmaceutical companies responded by focusing on developing treatments for common diseases in order to maximize the possibility of recouping research and development costs and generating significant profits. As a result, rare diseases were largely ignored due to poor economic potential and were thus said to be \"orphaned.\" The gap between drugs for common versus rare diseases eventually widened to the point where few or no treatments were available for some rare conditions such as Crohn's disease, Hansen's disease, etc.\n\nOrphan drugs generally follow the same regulatory development path as any other pharmaceutical product, in which testing focuses on \npharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, dosing, stability, safety and efficacy. However, some statistical burdens are lessened in an effort to maintain development momentum. For example, orphan drug regulations generally acknowledge the fact that it may not be possible to test 1,000 patients in a phase III clinical trial, as fewer than that number may be afflicted with the disease in question.\n\nSince the market for any drug with such a limited application scope would, by definition, be small and thus largely unprofitable, government intervention is often required to motivate a manufacturer to address the need for an orphan drug.\n\nThe intervention by government on behalf of orphan drug development can take a variety of forms:\n\nThe plight of patients suffering from rare diseases became an important political issue in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The US government was subject to pressure from activist groups such as NORD and many others.\n\nThe chief sponsor of the bill (H.R. 5238) was Henry Waxman (sometimes referred to as the author of the Act), chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. It passed the House of Representatives on 14 December 1982, and was similarly approved by voice vote in the Senate on 17 December. On 4 January 1983, President Ronald Reagan signed the ODA into law. Under the ODA drugs, vaccines, and diagnostic agents would qualify for orphan status if they were intended to treat a disease affecting less than 200,000 American citizens. In order to encourage the development of drugs for orphan diseases, the ODA included a number of incentives including seven-year market exclusivity for companies that developed orphan drug, tax credits equal to half of the development costs, later changed to a fifteen-year carry-forward provision and a three-year carry-back that can be applied in profitable year, grants for drug development, fast-track approvals of drugs indicated for rare diseases, and expanded access to the Investigational New Drug Program. The law was also later amended to waive user fees charged under PDUFA.\n\nMarket exclusivity is particularly appealing to pharmaceutical firms as an incentive to pursue orphan drug development. The seven-year market exclusivity period differs from traditional patent law in that it does not begin until the drug is granted FDA approval and is independent of the drug's current patent status. Furthermore, if a market competitor wishes to introduce a drug for the same indication, the onus is on the competitor to prove that their drug is therapeutically superior (e.g. increased efficacy, less toxicity, etc.) when compared to the present drug indicated for the rare disease of interest. This incentive creates an attractive monopolistic market for companies interested in developing a product for any given rare disease.\n\nTelevision historian and Allmovie contributor Hal Erickson credits two episodes of the television series \"Quincy, M.E.\" for helping the ODA pass in the USA: \"Seldom Silent, Never Heard\" (1981) and \"Give Me Your Weak\" (1982). The show's star, Jack Klugman, even testified before Congress concerning the orphan drug issue.\n\nDrug companies nearly universally believe the ODA to be a success. Before Congress enacted the ODA in 1983 only 38 drugs were approved in the USA specifically to treat orphan diseases. In the USA, from January 1983 to June 2004, a total of 1,129 different orphan drug designations have been granted by the Office of Orphan Products Development (OOPD) and 249 orphan drugs have received marketing authorization. In contrast, the decade prior to 1983 saw fewer than ten such products come to market. From the passage of the ODA in 1983 until May 2010, the FDA approved 353 orphan drugs and granted orphan designations to 2,116 compounds. As of 2010, 200 of the roughly 7,000 officially designated orphan diseases have become treatable. In 2010, drugmaker Pfizer established a division to focus specifically on the development of orphan drugs as other large pharmaceutical companies focused greater efforts on the orphan drug research.\n\nSome critics have questioned whether orphan drug legislation was the real cause of this increase (claiming that many of the new drugs were for disorders that were already being researched anyway, and would have had drugs developed regardless of the legislation), and whether the ODA has really stimulated the production of truly non-profitable drugs; the act also received some criticism for allowing some pharmaceutical companies to make a large profit off of drugs that have a small market but still sell for a high price. While orphan drug status is given to drugs with \"no reasonable expectation\" of profitability, some orphan drugs have gone on to net large profits and/or receive widespread use. The topic of profit in the aftermath of the ODA was addressed in November 2013 in the \"Seattle Times\" where the following quote appeared: \n\nThe list of designated orphan drugs includes such blockbuster drugs as Abilify, Provigil, Vioxx, Botox, and Cialis\n\nIn an effort to reduce the burden on manufacturers applying for orphan drug status, the FDA and EMA agreed in late 2007 to utilize a common application process for both agencies. However, the two agencies will continue to maintain separate approval processes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1048095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1048095", "title": "Orthokeratology", "text": "Orthokeratology\n\nOrthokeratology (also referred to as Ortho-K, Overnight Vision Correction, Corneal Refractive Therapy and CRT), refers to the creation of gas permeable contact lenses that temporarily reshape the cornea to reduce refractive errors such as myopia, hyperopia and astigmatism. This method can be used as an alternative to eyeglasses, refractive surgery, or for those who prefer not to wear contact lenses during the day. Orthokeratology is most often used for candidates with up to -6.00 diopters of myopia, though exceptions may be made if the prescription is only slightly lower (e.g. -6.25).\n\nDoctors discovered the reshaping phenomena of glass lenses as early as the 1940s. This history of orthokeratology includes contributions made by multiple authors to the use of contact lenses for myopia reduction.\n\nGeorge Jessen created what was probably the first orthokeratology design in the 1960s made from PMMA material, which he marketed as \"Orthofocus\". These early designs had generally unpredictable results, leading to the belief that applied orthokeratology was more art or luck than science. Many groups and individuals claim to have been the first to develop modern orthokeratology solutions. However, Dr. Richard Wlodyga, Dr. Philip B. Hanisch and Nick Stoyan, in particular, are generally credited with developing the first reverse zone lens design in the 1980s.\n\nHowever, it was not until computerized corneal topography became available during the 1990s that it became possible to apply the theory to create designs with repeatable results through being able to accurately map the surface curvature of the cornea using a non-invasive, painless imaging procedure. Additionally, the development of new base materials for rigid gas permeable lenses which provided much higher levels of oxygen permeability opened up the possibility of orthokeratology becoming an overnight procedure rather than being used for daytime wear alone. Finally, the introduction of computer-controlled precision lathes meant that lens designs could be manufactured to sub-micrometer levels of accuracy thereby offering the prospect of high volume production becoming commercially viable.\n\nNightwear ortho-k solutions were available to consumers in many countries outside the US much earlier than within the US, due to international differences between regulatory controls and bodies. In 1994, the FDA granted the first ever daily wear approval for a lens indicated for Orthokeratology to a type of lens called the Contex OK-Lens. In June 2002, the FDA granted approval for overnight wear of a type of corneal reshaping called \"Corneal Refractive Therapy\" (CRT), more than fifteen years after Europe.\n\nIn the summer of 2000, at an educational meeting of optometrists in Toronto, the Orthokeratology Academy of America (OAA) was formed to support, promote and advance orthokeratology. In parallel, the British Orthokeratology Society (BOKS) was established in the UK with similar objectives to promote orthokeratology as a new procedure to correct myopia. The OSO, formerly known as the OSA, is an Australian-based association of orthokeratology optometrists and researchers representing Australia and the South Pacific region.\n\nIn 2006 and 2007, papers presented at the British Contact Lens Association and the Global Orthokeratology Symposium indicated the possibility of orthokeratology slowing or stopping myopic progression. This was found to be effective in children in Hong Kong and is the subject of wider study to verify this data. More recently, the first year results from the SMART Study (Stabilizing Myopia by Accelerated Reshaping Technique) – a five-year longitudinal study currently underway in the Chicago area – show a statistically significant difference for children in the treatment group wearing orthokeratology lenses who exhibited no overall prescription change against children in the control group wearing conventional soft contact lenses for whom there was a mean increase in myopia of 0.40 diopters. In Australia, the Research in Orthokeratology Group at the University of NSW conducts ongoing research into various aspects of orthokeratology including myopia control.\n\nTissue growth and propagation studies indicate that epithelial cells adjust growth in response to presence of a foreign material. CRT lens proximity to the cells therefore is thought to stimulate cell growth where less proximity coincides with added growth and more proximity coincides with growth repression thereby creating a 'proximal pressure' on the epithelial cells.\n\nThe orthokeratology website \"ortho-k.net\" explains in lay-terms that the mechanism behind ortho-k is that around 60% of the eye's focusing power is provided by the cornea, and this is extremely sensitive to very small changes: 6 µm flattening of corneal thickness (around 5% of the thickness of a human hair) results in 1 diopter of changed vision in myopia. Therefore a specially shaped lens can be used to lightly press the cornea, causing it gradually to be reshaped to the correct shape for focused vision. The corrective effect lasts up to 72 hours once initially acclimatized, which is long enough to be a practical means of eyesight correction. There is some evidence (see above) that unlike other eyesight correction mechanisms, Ortho-K may also reduce future or ongoing eyesight changes or increased myopia, although this is still being researched.\n\nRisks are comparable to or safer than ordinary contact lenses, since they are typically worn for much shorter periods (6–8 hours rather than daytime or 24/7) and while asleep rather than while active. They also compare favorably to surgical correction since no surgery is involved, corrections to the eye's shape can be handled over time (surgery corrects vision at a single point in time, but post-operative ongoing changes to eyesight will continue to occur during the patient's lifetime), and it is considered generally safe for younger patients. In addition, Ortho-K is broadly not 'new' from a safety viewpoint; contact lens safety generally speaking is considered to be well understood. However it is important, as with all contact lenses, to maintain good cleaning and hygiene discipline.\n\nRigid lenses are generally considered to be not as comfortable as soft lenses, but Ortho-K is claimed to avoid the feeling during waking hours of the eyelids moving over the lens edges while blinking. When Ortho-K lenses are worn, the eyes are closed for sleep, although the same issues that accompany wearing contact lenses during sleep (rapid eye movements and lower tear production) remain.\n\nThe cornea experiences a significant degree of adaptation within hours to days, although full adaptation often requiring 2 – 3 weeks. During this initial period vision may be affected for some people. Once adapted, FDA trials showed over 65% of patients achieved 20/20 eyesight and over 90% achieved 20/40 or better (the typical US requirement for driving without glasses).\n\nThe corrective effect is stable but not permanent. Left to itself, the eye will slowly lose its adjusted shape, taking around something of the region of 3 days to return to its former vision. The Ortho-K lenses must therefore be worn regularly so the corrected corneal shape is preserved and maintained. Usually they are worn only for part of the day (typically only when asleep at night); some users may only need to use them one night out of every two or three nights.\n\nThe US FDA overnight orthokeratology is approved up to -6.00 diopters of myopia and a maximum of 1.75 diopters of astigmatism.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the procedure is offered primarily for myopic correction up to −5.00 diopters and up to −1.50 diopters of astigmatism. Fitting evidence for the leading lens designs indicates that procedures undertaken within these parameters have the highest probability of success. Some patients with higher degrees of myopia are successfully treated by specialist practitioners with \"off-label\" uses of these same lenses.\n\nIn countries such as South Africa, Australia and Taiwan, practitioners using the GOV orthokeratology system have achieved successful fits as high as −10.00D of myopia and +5.00D of hyperopia. Not every patient within these parameters will be suitable for the procedure and conditions such as flat or steep corneas may result in the procedure being less successful.\n\nCounter-indications may include:\n\nDuring the first month of lens wear when the treatment zone on the surface of the cornea is in the process of becoming fully formed, some users may experience vision issues such as ghosting, double vision, contrast problems and/or starbursting, especially at night. These issues are generally resolved by the end of the first month of lens wear. If these issues persist beyond this initial period, the cause may be due to lack of centration of the lens on the eye and/or overly large pupil size (in light or dark). Resolution may be possible through redesign, material changes, better eye moisture retention (night eye masks, duct blocking, etc.) or other techniques.\n\nOrthokeratology showed few severe side-effects, according to a March 2004 report of a very small sample of cases in China where supply of lenses at that time was not subject to any regulatory regime covering safety and efficacy. More typically, complications can occur due to the patient's failure to follow appropriate hygiene recommendations when handling or cleaning the lenses. One common issue being the use of tap water to rinse (although some systems allow for or suggest the use of \"clean\" tap water) or store as this may cause unwanted buildup of minerals on the contact as well as other issues. Complications may also be due to relative corneal hypoxia (lack of oxygen) with prolonged or overnight contact lens wear in lenses made from the wrong material. However, the use of high or hyper oxygen-permeable materials as approved by the US Food and Drug Administration significantly reduces hypoxia, and these are the materials that are normally used in orthokeratology.\n\nSafety advice applicable to most modes of contact lens wear, also applies to ortho-k night-time lenses. An article in the January 2005 issue of \"Eye & Contact Lens: Science & Clinical Practice\" discusses two case reports of children who developed corneal ulcers when fit with Paragon CRT contact lenses, which were worn nightly. Each patient presented with a bacterial corneal ulcer after wearing CRT contact lenses for less than 6 months. In the first patient, \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" was identified as the causative organism. In the second patient, \"Haemophilus influenza\" was cultured from the ulcer. Both patients were treated with antibiotics, resulting in a rapid resolution of the corneal ulcers and preservation of vision. The writers conclude that \"Paragon CRT lenses have been approved for use in patients of all ages. When used in children, these lenses may present unique problems. The absolute incidence of bacterial corneal ulcers in patients with CRT lenses are unknown. Severe caution should be used before prescribing CRT lenses for children and informed consent should include potential sight-threatening corneal ulcers.\" Although sight threatening corneal ulcers are rare, informed consent should routinely be obtained for all new contact lens wearers, whether worn overnight or not.\n\n\"The Globe and Mail\" reported two cases in Canada in which Acanthamoeba infections during ortho-k treatment, possibly related to rinsing the lenses in tap water, led to temporary or permanent blindness.\n\nOrthokeratology lenses are made by a number of companies globally. All use special gas permeable contact lenses to reshape the cornea. The lens material – and especially its oxygen permeability measured by its 'Dk' rating (the higher the value, the greater the degree of oxygen permeability) – is important for maintaining eye-health during the treatment.\n\nMaterials and methods vary globally, as does individual country approval. Menicon Z Night is used overnight in other countries, but is FDA-approved for only 30-day wear, limited to regular GP schedule. It uses fenestrations in the reverse curve to maximize fluid flow while maintaining centration with a high Dk material.\n\nSome practitioners have also designed their own orthokeratology lenses typically by using various software packages which combine corneal topographical data with the practitioners' own knowledge and experience to determine the appropriate lens parameters for individual patient prescriptions. These practitioners are obviously doing so \"off-label\" since their designs are not approved for safety by the FDA. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3105620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3105620", "title": "Osteochondritis", "text": "Osteochondritis\n\nOsteochondritis is a painful type of osteochondrosis where the cartilage or bone in a joint is inflamed.\n\nIt often refers to osteochondritis dissecans (sometimes spelt \"dessecans\", and abbreviated OCD). The term \"dissecans\" refers to the \"creation of a flap of cartilage that further dissects away from its underlying subchondral attachments (dissecans)\".\n\nThe other recognized types of osteochondritis are osteochondritis deformans juvenilis (osteochondritis of the capitular head of the epiphysis of the femur) and osteochondritis deformans juvenilis dorsi (osteochondrosis of the spinal vertebrae, also known as Scheuermann's disease).\n\nOsteochondritis, and especially osteochondritis dissecans, can manifest in animals as a primary cause of elbow dysplasia, a chronic condition in some species and breeds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24509", "title": "Pierre Curie", "text": "Pierre Curie\n\nPierre Curie (; ; 15 May 1859 – 19 April 1906) was a French physicist, a pioneer in crystallography, magnetism, piezoelectricity and radioactivity. In 1903, he received the Nobel Prize in Physics with his wife, Marie Skłodowska-Curie, and Henri Becquerel, \"in recognition of the extraordinary services they have rendered by their joint researches on the radiation phenomena discovered by Professor Henri Becquerel\".\n\nBorn in Paris on 15 May 1859, Pierre Curie was the son of Eugene Curie (28 August 1827 – 25 February 1910), a doctor of Alsatian Protestant origin, and Sophie-Claire Depouilly Curie (15 January 1832 – 27 September 1897). He was educated by his father and in his early teens showed a strong aptitude for mathematics and geometry. When he was 16, he earned his math degree. By the age of 18, he had completed the equivalent of a higher degree, but did not proceed immediately to a doctorate due to lack of money. Instead he worked as a laboratory instructor. When Pierre Curie was preparing for his bachelor of science degree, he worked in the laboratory of Jean-Gustave Bourbouze in the Faculty of Science.\n\nIn 1880, Pierre and his older brother Jacques (1856–1941) demonstrated that an electric potential was generated when crystals were compressed, i.e. piezoelectricity. To provide accurate measurements needed for their work, Pierre Curie created a highly sensitive instrument called the Curie scale. He used weights, microscopic meter readers, and pneumatic dampeners to create the scale. Also, to aid their work, they invented the piezoelectric quartz electrometer. Shortly afterwards, in 1881, they demonstrated the reverse effect: that crystals could be made to deform when subject to an electric field. Almost all digital electronic circuits now rely on this in the form of crystal oscillators.\n\nPierre Curie was introduced to Maria Skłodowska by their friend, physicist Józef Wierusz-Kowalski. Curie took her into his laboratory as his student. His admiration for her grew when he realized that she would not inhibit his research. He began to regard Sklodowska as his muse. She refused his initial proposal, but finally agreed to marry him on 26 July 1895.\n\nThe Curies had a happy, affectionate marriage, and they were known for their devotion to each other. \n\nPrior to his famous doctoral studies on magnetism, he designed and perfected an extremely sensitive torsion balance for measuring magnetic coefficients. Variations on this equipment were commonly used by future workers in that area. Pierre Curie studied ferromagnetism, paramagnetism, and diamagnetism for his doctoral thesis, and discovered the effect of temperature on paramagnetism which is now known as Curie's law. The material constant in Curie's law is known as the Curie constant. He also discovered that ferromagnetic substances exhibited a critical temperature transition, above which the substances lost their ferromagnetic behavior. This is now known as the Curie temperature. The Curie temperature is used to study plate tectonics, treat hypothermia, measure caffeine, and to understand extraterrestrial magnetic fields.\n\nPierre Curie formulated what is now known as the \"Curie Dissymmetry Principle\": a physical effect cannot have a dissymmetry absent from its efficient cause. For example, a random mixture of sand in zero gravity has no dissymmetry (it is isotropic). Introduce a gravitational field, and there is a dissymmetry because of the direction of the field. Then the sand grains can 'self-sort' with the density increasing with depth. But this new arrangement, with the directional arrangement of sand grains, actually reflects the dissymmetry of the gravitational field that causes the separation.\n\nCurie worked with his wife in isolating polonium and radium. They were the first to use the term \"radioactivity\", and were pioneers in its study. Their work, including Marie Curie's celebrated doctoral work, made use of a sensitive piezoelectric electrometer constructed by Pierre and his brother Jacques Curie. Pierre Curie's 1898 publication with his wife Mme. Curie and also with M. G. Bémont for their discovery of radium and polonium was honored by a Citation for Chemical Breakthrough Award from the Division of History of Chemistry of the American Chemical Society presented to the ESPCI ParisTech (officially the École supérieure de physique et de chimie industrielles de la Ville de Paris) in 2015.\n\nCurie and one of his students, Albert Laborde, made the first discovery of nuclear energy, by identifying the continuous emission of heat from radium particles. Curie also investigated the radiation emissions of radioactive substances, and through the use of magnetic fields was able to show that some of the emissions were positively charged, some were negative and some were neutral. These correspond to alpha, beta and gamma radiation.\n\nThe curie is a unit of radioactivity (3.7 × 10 decays per second or 37 gigabecquerels) originally named in honor of Curie by the Radiology Congress in 1910, after his death. Subsequently, there has been some controversy over whether the naming was in honor of Pierre, Marie, or both.\n\nIn the late nineteenth century, Pierre Curie was investigating the mysteries of ordinary magnetism when he became aware of the spiritualist experiments of other European scientists, such as Charles Richet and Camille Flammarion. Pierre Curie initially thought systematic investigation into the paranormal could help with some unanswered questions about magnetism. He wrote to his fiancée Marie: \"I must admit that those spiritual phenomena intensely interest me. I think in them are questions that deal with physics.\" Pierre Curie's notebooks from this period show he read many books on spiritualism. He did not attend séances such as those of Eusapia Palladino in Paris in 1905–6 as a mere spectator, and his goal certainly was not to communicate with spirits. He saw the séances as scientific experiments, tried to monitor different parameters, and took detailed notes of every observation. Despite studying spiritualism, Curie was an atheist.\n\nPierre and Marie Curie's daughter, Irène, and their son-in-law, Frédéric Joliot-Curie, were also physicists involved in the study of radioactivity, and each received Nobel prizes for their work as well. The Curies' other daughter, Ève, wrote a noted biography of her mother. She was the only member of the Curie family to not become a physicist. Ève married Henry Richardson Labouisse, Jr., who received a Nobel Peace Prize on behalf of Unicef in 1965. Pierre and Marie Curie's granddaughter, Hélène Langevin-Joliot, is a professor of nuclear physics at the University of Paris, and their grandson, Pierre Joliot, who was named after Pierre Curie, is a noted biochemist.\n\nPierre Curie died in a street accident in Paris on 19 April 1906. Crossing the busy Rue Dauphine in the rain at the Quai de Conti, he slipped and fell under a heavy horse-drawn cart. He died instantly when one of the wheels ran over his head, fracturing his skull. Statements made by his father and lab assistant imply that Curie's characteristic absent-minded preoccupation with his thoughts contributed to his death.\n\nBoth the Curies experienced radium burns, both accidentally and voluntarily, and were exposed to extensive doses of radiation while conducting their research. They experienced radiation sickness and Marie Curie died of aplastic anemia in 1934. Even now, all their papers from the 1890s, even her cookbooks, are too dangerous to touch. Their laboratory books are kept in special lead boxes and people who want to see them have to wear protective clothing. Had Pierre Curie not been killed as he was, it is likely that he would have eventually died of the effects of radiation, as did his wife, their daughter, Irène, and her husband, Frédéric Joliot.\n\nIn April 1995, Pierre and Marie Curie were moved from their original resting place, a family cemetery, and enshrined in the crypt of the Panthéon in Paris. Marie Curie was the first woman to be honored in this way \"for her own merits\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24217648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24217648", "title": "Quality use of medicines", "text": "Quality use of medicines\n\nThe term Quality use of medicines is used by the Australian government as part of their policies on effective and correct uses of medicine and access to appropriate medicines.\n\nQuality Use of Medicines (abbreviated to QUM) is one of the four policy pillars in the Australian Government’s National Medicines Policy first developed in 2000, and involves the safe and judicious use of medicines by the general public.\n\nIn the documentation of the National Medicines Policy, the four tenets of Quality Use of Medicines involve medicines being used:\nQuality Use of Medicines is primarily a patient-oriented movement, with the documentation stressing the importance of patient-professional communication along with patient knowledge and understanding their medicines. The term has begun to enter consumer-oriented Australian media in both journalistic and corporate contexts, while the concepts are becoming increasingly central to general pharmaceutical practice.\n\nIn the 1997-1998 Australian federal budget, the Government allocated funds towards creation of the National Prescribing Service (NPS MedicineWise), a body tasked with undertaking and promoting Quality Use of Medicines work. The organisation’s services such as the \"Medicine Name Finder\" and \"Medicines Line\" are the most apparent representations of governmental QUM policy at work. Medicines Line, for example, provides a hotline for patients to call with questions about their medicines, furthering the QUM goal of ensuring medicine safety through improved patient knowledge.\n\nThe Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC) provides advice and recommendations on whether or not to include medicines on Australia’s Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS). The PBAC takes a number of QUM-related factors into account, including those not traditionally looked at by doctors like cost-effectiveness, course length and alternative therapies. The body has been praised for its improvements to the PBS system, most particularly in the area of cost-effectiveness.\n\n"}
{"id": "28015367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28015367", "title": "Queen Ingrid's Hospital", "text": "Queen Ingrid's Hospital\n\nQueen Ingrid's Hospital () is a hospital in Nuuk, Greenland. The hospital not only serves as the main hospital for the municipality but is the central hospital in all of Greenland. The hospital has 185 beds. There is a 12 bed psychiatric ward. Some forensic patients have to be transferred to a special ward in Denmark.\n\nThe hospital was established in 1953 and initially was a sanatorium for pulmonary diseases.\n\nThe current hospital complex dates from 1980 but is currently being expanded and rejuvenated according to a plan by C. F. Møller Architects.\n\nThe first phase which consists of a health centre and pharmacy opened on 3 February 2011. It take the form of sunken angular blocks and is clad in copper both on the facades and roof. The design is inspired by the ice floes that float in Godthåbsfjord and the image of Sermitsiaq, a 1210 meters high mountain and local landmark, symbol for Nuuk municipality before municipal mergers in 2009, however Sermitsiaq is not Greenland’s highest mountain, (Gunnbjørn Fjeldet, 3694 meter high in Eastgreenland is the highest in Greenland).\n\nAlso planned are a psychiatric building, rural pharmacy and a new medical clinic for general practitioners as well a circular patient ‘hotel’ with additional beds.\n\n"}
{"id": "46781512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46781512", "title": "Ramón Villeda Bermúdez", "text": "Ramón Villeda Bermúdez\n\n(1998-2000) and Vice President of the Congreso Nacional de Honduras (2004-2005) and President of the Banco Central de Honduras from 2010 until his death in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "30212625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30212625", "title": "Riddle scale", "text": "Riddle scale\n\nThe Riddle scale (also known as \"Riddle homophobia scale\" or \"Riddle scale of homophobia\") was a psychometric scale that measured the degree to which a person is or is not homophobic. The scale was frequently used in tolerance education about anti-discriminatory attitudes regarding sexual orientation. It is named after its creator, psychologist Dorothy Riddle.\n\nThe Riddle homophobia scale was developed by Dorothy Riddle in 1973–74 while she was overseeing research for the American Psychological Association Task Force on Gays and Lesbians. The scale was distributed at talks and workshops but was not formally published for a long time; it is cited in the literature either as an (unpublished) conference presentation from 1985 or as an article from 1994. At the time it was developed, Riddle's analysis was one of the first modern classifications of attitudes towards homosexuality.\n\nIn that respect, the scale has served the purpose that Riddle originally had in mind: she devised the scale to explicate the continuum of attitudes toward gays and lesbians and to assess the current and desired institutional culture of an organization or a work place.\n\nThe Riddle scale is an eight-term uni-dimensional Likert-type interval scale with nominal labels and no explicit zero point. Each term is associated with a set of attributes and beliefs; individuals are assigned a position on the scale based on the attributes they exhibit and beliefs they hold.\n\nThe scale is frequently divided into two parts, the 'homophobic levels of attitude' (first four terms) and the 'positive levels of attitude' (last four terms).\n\n\nRiddle's analysis has been credited for pointing out that although 'tolerance' and 'acceptance' can be seen as positive attitudes, they should actually be treated as negative because they can mask underlying fear or hatred (somebody can tolerate a baby crying on an airplane while at the same time wishing that it would stop) or indicate that there is indeed something that we need to accept, and that we are the ones with the power to reject or to accept. This observation generalizes to attitude evaluations in other areas besides sexual orientation and is one of the strengths of Riddle's study.\n\nAlthough it deals mostly with adult attitudes towards difference, the model has been positioned in the cognitive developmental tradition of Piaget and Kohlberg's stages of moral development.\n\nAs a psychometric scale, the Riddle scale has been considered to have acceptable face validity but its exact psychometric properties are unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "57555564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57555564", "title": "RockMyRun", "text": "RockMyRun\n\nRock My Run (stylized as RockMyRun; trademarked slogan: \"The Best Running Music in the World™\") is a mobile running/fitness app and an online music website service owned by Rock My World, Inc., a technology company based in San Diego, California that provides running and workout music in the form of DJ mixes. The app allows users to listen to these professional DJ mixes on their smartphone while running or working out to enhance and motivate their performance.\n\nSome of RockMyRun's notable DJ/producers include David Guetta, Steve Aoki, Major Lazer, Zedd, Afrojack, Cash Cash, R3hab, Robin Schulz, Arty, Gorgon City, StoneBridge, Icona Pop, Dave Audé, DJ Dan, DJ Scene, Miguel Migs and Mobin Master.\n\nThe RockMyRun app contains thousands of mixes or \"stations\" produced by its DJs intended to increase enjoyment and performance during exercise. All of the music can be personalized based on the user's steps per minute, heart rate or ideal cadence allowing the user to \"always hear the right music at the right time at the right tempo\".\n\nAll RockMyRun mixes are organized into stations to help users discover music that suits their needs. RockMyRun contains mixes of all genres and each station is categorized into their respective genres and displays tags to let users know the type of music contained in the mix.\n\nRockMyRun has two membership types; it is free as a standard member, but for uninterrupted listening and additional features, users can upgrade to a paid \"Rockstar\" membership.\n\nRockMyRun has been featured on \"The Today Show\" on several occasions, as well as on \"The Rachael Ray Show\", and in publications such as \"TIME\", \"The Huffington Post\", \"Men's Fitness\", \"The New York Times\", \"Real Simple\", \"The L.A. Times\", \"Glamour\" and Yahoo! Tech.\n\nRockMyRun is partnered with the following brands/companies:\n\n"}
{"id": "22160181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22160181", "title": "Situ Gintung", "text": "Situ Gintung\n\nSitu Gintung (Sundanese, \"Lake Gintung\") was an artificial lake near to the town of Cirendeu (pronounced ) in Tangerang District, Indonesia. It was formed by a dam up to high which was built by Dutch colonial authorities in 1933. The dam failed on 27 March 2009, draining the lake, with resulting floods killing at least 100 people.\n\nThe lake and dam are located in the suburb of Cirendeu, Ciputat in Tangerang District. The dam was originally built of earth by Dutch colonial authorities in 1933 and was up to high. It was made from earth compacted into a wall high and the reservoir held at least of water. The original use of the dam had been to retain water for irrigation of rice paddies which were then replaced by urban development. People living near the dam had made complaints about leaks in the past and the dam actually breached in November 2008 but no damage was done. It is thought that little maintenance had been carried out since the dam was built.\n\nThe area experienced several hours of heavy rain on the night of 26–27 March 2009 which caused the dam level to rise, apparently because the gate leading to the spillway was too small. The dam was overtopped, eroding the dam surface and resulting in a breach wide at around 2 am on 27 March local time (7 pm 26 March GMT).\n\nThe government of Indonesia evacuated people to higher ground at a nearby university campus. Troops of the Indonesian Army were brought in to rescue survivors and to move bodies to a nearby makeshift morgue. The site of the disaster was visited by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, Vice-President Yusuf Kalla and Welfare Minister Aburizal Bakrie; and the government stated that it would pay for repairs to houses damaged by the flood. Emergency repairs to the dam structure were carried out and the government began inspections of similar dam structures. President Yudhoyono promised that the cause of the disaster would be investigated, and any dam staff found to have been negligent in their duties would face court charges. Six officials have since been cited for negligence by the Indonesian Forum for the Environment.\n\nAccording to the BBC the area has \"an ageing, poorly maintained drainage system which struggles to cope with heavy rainfall\". Floods in 2007 in the nearby capital Jakarta killed more than 50 people. Yudhoyono vowed to rebuild the dam \"in a proper way so that it will not cause any further public concern\".\n"}
{"id": "28279805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28279805", "title": "The National Council for Human Resource in Health in India", "text": "The National Council for Human Resource in Health in India\n\nThere will be new regulatory agency in India to regulate health education by enforcement of a new bill being tabled in the Parliament of India in the monsoon session of August 2010 for the formation of an agency called the \"National Council for Human Resource in Health in India –NCHRH”. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has approved the revised draft for the proposed NCHRH Bill which will be an overarching body for the health sector.\n\nBecoming a doctor in India will be more difficult once the said regulatory authority starts functioning, which is expected to be at any time from August 2010 onwards. The agency will also bring about overall transparency, eliminating the present, allegedly corrupt admission formalities in the field of medical education. From the next academic year, i.e. 2011, onwards there will be a common MBBS entrance test (single PMT)National Eligibility and Entrance Test -UG replacing the over 17 All India Pre Medical Test(PMTs) conducted all over the country for over 35,000 undergraduate seats. But Tamil Nadu has moved the Supreme Court challenging this decision of single common test for all India. The second major change will be the National Exit Examination National Eligibility and Entrance Test PG for students graduating from Indian medical colleges.\n\nThe new draft proposes a National Committee for Accreditation and a National Medical Education and Training Board that will register and accredit medical colleges and prepare curricula for all streams of education in the health sector. The powers of the existing councils, including the Medical Council of India, will be substantially reduced and they will deal only with licensing, continuing education and ethics. These bodies, though under the general supervision of the NCHRH, will be entirely independent in their structure and functioning, and will consist of senior professional, selected or nominated through a rigorous process. The NCHRH will be a 15-member body. The original NCHRH Bill was re-drafted after several States raised objections on the ground that the body was highly centralized and would usurp the powers of the States. The re-constituted task force on NCHRH held several rounds of consultations in New Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata and Mumbai before coming up with the revised version.\n\nDetails of the NCHRH council bill:(0ld 0ne)\nThere shall be established seven administrative departments under the Council for\nregulation of each category of health professionals:\nThe draft bill, which was finalized by the union health ministry, for the establishment of the NCHRH as an overarching regulatory body for health and allied sectors, has received the approval from the PMO. Now that it has received the PMO approval, it will be put up before the Union Cabinet and will finally be introduced in Parliament for its final nod, sources said.\nThe NCHRH is proposed to be established by the health ministry as an overarching regulatory authority in the country to reform the current regulatory framework in medical education and enhance the supply of skilled personnel to the healthcare sector in the country. Once in place, the NCHRH will be the overarching regulatory body for all the premier medical educational institutions and autonomous regulatory bodies like Medical Council of India (MCI), Pharmacy Council of India (PCI), Nursing Council of India (NCI), Dental Council of India (DCI) and the proposed Central Councils for Paramedical and Allied Medical Sciences Education.\nIt will prescribe standards with a view to have proper planning and co-coordinated development of medical and allied health education throughout the country and maintain national live electronic register of medical and allied health professionals.\nThe expert group of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the task force of the Ministry of Human Resource Development (HRD) broadly agreed to settle their turf war over the jurisdiction of medical education. The National Commission for Human Resources in Health (NCHRH) will get tolay down the minimum standards of medical education, while all health-related research will comeunder the purview of the National Commission for Higher Education and Research (NCHER), promoted by the HRD Ministry. The NCHRH and the NCHER draft Bills — proposed as regulatory bodies — have been pending for the past several months as the two ministries were involved in a tussle over the jurisdiction of medical education\nAs per the draft bill, the administration of the Council will consist of a Secretariat headed by a Secretary-General who will be appointed by the Council for a fixed term of three years. Under this secretariat, seven departments, each for separate categories like Medicine, Pharmacy, Nursing, Dentistry, Rehabilitation & Physiotherapy, Public Health & Hospital Management and Allied Health Sciences, will be established and headed by a director for regulatory purposes.\nIn every state, there will be separate bodies constituted by the Council for each administrative department which will be known as Registration and Ethics Board with name of the state in front and the department's name in the end. These bodies will replace the existing State Councils. These boards have to maintain a live electronic register of professionals in the state of the respective Department to be known as 'State Register of (name of the Department) and which will be linked to the National Register of Human Resources in Health maintained by the Council.\nEach Board will comprise a president, a vice-president and not less than 10 members out of which three will be women candidates. There will be a nominee of the state government also.\n\nIn the new proposed bill Department of Rehabilitation and Physiotherapy; & Department of Public Health and Hospital Management has been removed and a common para medical council has been suggested by committee.\n\nwhich is totally unacceptable by 'Indian Association of Physiotherapist\".They are in demand for their separate council from almost 40 years.But still, government has not formed a separate council for them.Still government job comes on diploma degree in Physiotherapy, but in this field education has reached up to PhD level.\n\nAccording to WHO, it has been declared as separate profession apart from medical or paramedical.\n\nDue to lack of effective council, this profession is unable to control above 65000 professional and quality of education & patient care in on risk.Further social and educational importance are going down.\n\n\n[[Category:Proposed laws of India]"}
{"id": "56819394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56819394", "title": "Thomas Clarion", "text": "Thomas Clarion\n\nThomas Clarion (born 15 March 1982) is a French male visually impaired cross-country skier and biathlete who is also well known as a physiotherapist. He has competed at the Winter Paralympics in 2010, 2014 and 2018.\n\nThomas Clarion competed in his first Paralympic event in 2010 and went medalless during the competition. He claimed 2 bronze medals at the 2014 Winter Paralympics in the men's 10km cross-country skiing event and 4 x 2.5 km relay open event.\n\nHe went onto represent France at the 2018 Winter Paralympics, his third Paralympic event and managed to claim a bronze medal in the men's 20km free visually impaired cross-country skiing event which was also his third Paralympic medal. He claimed his first Paralympic gold medal during the 2018 Winter Paralympics after winning the men's 4 x 2.5 km relay open team event for France along with other members including Benjamin Daviet and Anthony Chalençon.\n"}
{"id": "56262516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56262516", "title": "Timothy Cloughesy", "text": "Timothy Cloughesy\n\nTimothy Frances Cloughesy is a Clinical Professor and Director of the Neuro-Oncology Program at the University of California, Los Angeles. He is an expert on the treatment of brain cancer.\n\nHe completed his MD at Tulane University School of Medicine in 1987. He has an h-index of 93.\n"}
{"id": "46355870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46355870", "title": "Traditional food", "text": "Traditional food\n\nTraditional foods are foods and dishes that are passed through generations or which have been consumed many generations. Traditional foods and dishes are traditional in nature, and may have a historic precedent in a national dish, regional cuisine or local cuisine. Traditional foods and beverages may be produced as homemade, by restaurants and small manufacturers, and by large food processing plant facilities.\n\nSome traditional foods have geographical indications and traditional specialities in the European Union designations per European Union schemes of geographical indications and traditional specialties: Protected designation of origin (PDO), Protected geographical indication (PGI) and Traditional specialities guaranteed (TSG). These standards serve to promote and protect names of quality agricultural products and foodstuffs.\n\nThis article also includes information about traditional beverages.\n\n\nTraditional food products have been described as playing \"an important part of European culture, identity, and heritage\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n •{khichdi} — national food of India\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTraditional beverages in Jordan include \"sous\" (also referred to as \"<nowiki>'</nowiki>irqsus\"), a drink prepared using the dried root of \"Glycyrrhiza glabra\" (liquorice), \"tamr hindi\", a drink prepared from an infusion of the dried pulp of \"Tamarindus indica\" (tamarind), and \"laban\" (\"labneh\"), a drink prepared with yogurt and water. A significant amount of labneh in Jordan and nearby countries continues to be prepared using the traditional method of \"straining set yogurt in cloth bags\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTraditional foods of the Eastern Mediterranean region include falafel, fuul, halawa, hummus, kanafeh, labaneh, medammis and tahini. among others. The most popular traditional foods in the region are those prepared from legumes, specifically, falafel, fuul, hummus and medammis.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21268238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21268238", "title": "Traité des fardemens", "text": "Traité des fardemens\n\nNostradamus's Traité des fardemens et confitures, variously entitled \"Moult utile opuscule...\" and \"Le vrai et parfaict embellissement de la face...\", was first published in 1555, even though it contained a \"Proem\", or prologue, dated 1552. Clearly the work of an apothecary, it contained recipes for preparing cosmetics and preserves, the latter based largely on sugar, which was controlled at the time by the apothecaries' guilds.\n\nAmong the topics covered (which include removing spots from the face \"with mercury\") were:\n\nA. THE COSMETICS MANUAL\n\nB. THE COOKBOOK\n\nThe book was translated into German in 1574, then the German was revised in 1994, and finally the \"German\" was translated into English under the title \"The Elixirs of Nostradamus\" (Moyer Bell, 1996). Needless to say, the fourth-hand results of this process were unreliable, if not downright dangerous: the term \"roses rouges incarnées\", for example, was routinely translated as 'black orchids', and \"urines\" (urine) came out as 'drinking wells'.\n\n\n"}
