{"id": "10605670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10605670", "title": "1946 Turin Grand Prix", "text": "1946 Turin Grand Prix\n\nThe 1946 Turin Grand Prix was a Grand Prix motor race held at Valentino Park on 1 September 1946. It is the first ever Formula 1 race in history.\n"}
{"id": "47957544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47957544", "title": "2016 Warsaw summit", "text": "2016 Warsaw summit\n\nThe 2016 Warsaw Summit of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) was the 27th formal meeting of the heads of state and heads of government of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, held at the National Stadium in Warsaw, Poland, on 8 and 9 July 2016.\n\nPolish president Andrzej Duda announced in August 2015 that NATO bases in Central Europe were a priority for the Warsaw Summit.\n\n\nNormally NATO summits take place every two years, but after the Warsaw summit it was announced that the next alliance summit (28th) would take place in 2017 in Brussels to inaugurate the new €1 billion NATO headquarters building.\n\nThe next major summit (28th) took place in Brussels in 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9711100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9711100", "title": "8th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "8th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 8th World Science Fiction Convention, also known as NorWesCon, was held September 1–4, 1950, at the Multnomah Hotel in Portland, Oregon, United States. The supporting organization was the Portland Science-Fantasy Society. The chairman was Donald B. Day.\n\nThe guest of honor was Anthony Boucher. The toastmaster, listed as the \"Entertainment Master of Ceremonies\", was Theodore Sturgeon. Total attendance was approximately 400. Special note: an advance preview screening of George Pal's science fiction film \"Destination Moon\" was held at a nearby local theater for NorWesCon members. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "45284685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45284685", "title": "Algerian Assembly election, 1954", "text": "Algerian Assembly election, 1954\n\nElections to the Algerian Assembly were held in Algeria in February 1954. Like other post-1948 elections in French Algeria, it was rigged by the authorities to ensure the defeat of Algerian nationalists.\n\nThe Assembly was elected by two colleges, each of which elected 60 seats; the First College consisted of Europeans and évolués, whilst the Second College was composed of the remainder of the Algerian population.\n"}
{"id": "1792585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1792585", "title": "Apollonia (Illyria)", "text": "Apollonia (Illyria)\n\nApollonia (; or Ἀπολλωνία πρὸς Ἐπίδαμνον, \"Apollonia kat' Epidamnon\" or \"Apollonia pros Epidamnon\") was an ancient Greek city located on the right bank of the Aous river (modern-day Vjosë). Its ruins are situated in the Fier region, near the village of Pojani (Polina), in modern-day Albania. Apollonia was founded in 588 BCE by Greek colonists from Corfu and Corinth, on a site where native Illyrian tribes lived, and was perhaps the most important of the several classical towns known as \"Apollonia\". Apollonia flourished in the Roman period and was home to a renowned school of philosophy, but began to decline in the 3rd century AD when its harbor started silting up as a result of an earthquake. It was abandoned by the end of Late Antiquity.\n\nThe name of the city is mentioned among the modern bishoprics of the Orthodox Autocephalous Church of Albania (\"Apollonia and Fier\"). Apollonia is also a titular see of the Latin Church.\n\nThe site of Apollonia lay on the territory of the Taulantii, a cluster of Illyrian tribes that remained closely involved with the settlement for centuries and lived alongside the Greek colonists. The city was said to have originally been named \"Gylakeia\" after its founder, Gylax, but the name was later changed to honor the god Apollo. Although this wasn't the only city named by the god Apollo. There were 24 other cities named Apollo, but Illyria's Apollo was the most important and played a major role as a trading intermediary between the Hellenists and the Illyrians. It is estimated that the city had about 60,000 inhabitants. \n\nIt is mentioned by Strabo in his \"Geographica\" as \"an exceedingly well-governed city\". Aristotle considered Apollonia an important example of an oligarchic system, as the descendants of the Greek colonists controlled the city and helped Illyrians to learn how to govern. The city grew rich on the slave trade and local agriculture, as well as its large harbour, said to have been able to hold a hundred ships at a time. The city also benefited from the local supply of asphalt which was a valuable commodity in ancient times, for example for caulking ships. The remains of a late sixth-century temple, located just outside the city, were reported in 2006; it is only the fifth known stone temple found in present-day Albania. \n\nApollonia, like Dyrrachium further north, was an important port on the Illyrian coast as the most convenient link between Brundusium and northern Greece, and as one of the western starting points of the Via Egnatia leading east to Thessaloniki and Byzantium in Thrace. It had its own mint, stamping coins showing a cow suckling her calf on the obverse and a double stellate pattern on the reverse, which have been found as far away as the basin of the Danube.\n\nThe city was for a time included among the dominions of Pyrrhus of Epirus. In 229 BC, it came under the control of the Roman Republic, to which it was firmly loyal; it was rewarded in 168 BC with booty seized from Gentius, the defeated king of Illyria. In 148 BC, Apollonia became part of the Roman province of Macedonia, specifically of Epirus Nova. In the Roman Civil War between Pompey and Julius Caesar, it supported the latter, but fell to Marcus Iunius Brutus in 48 BC. The later Roman emperor Augustus studied in Apollonia in 44 BC under the tutelage of Athenodorus of Tarsus; it was there that he received news of Caesar's murder.\n\nApollonia flourished under Roman rule and was noted by Cicero in his \"Philippicae\" as \"magna urbs et gravis\", a great and important city. Christianity was established in the city at an early stage, and bishops from Apollonia were present during the First Council of Ephesus (431) and the Council of Chalcedon (451). Its decline, however, began in the 3rd century AD, when an earthquake changed the path of the Aoös, causing the harbour to silt up and the inland area to become a malaria-ridden swamp. The city became increasingly uninhabitable as the inland swamp expanded, and the nearby settlement of Avlona (modern-day Vlorë) became dominant. By the end of antiquity, the city was largely depopulated, hosting only a small Christian community. This community (which probably is part of the site of the old city) built on a nearby hill the church of the Dormition of the Theotokos, (), part of the Ardenica Monastery.\n\nThe city seems to have sunk with the rise of Vlora. It was \"rediscovered\" by European classicists in the 18th century, though it was not until the Austrian occupation of 1916–1918 that the site was investigated by archaeologists. Their work was continued by a French team between 1924–1938. Parts of the site were damaged during the Second World War. After the war, an Albanian team undertook further work from 1948 onwards, although much of the site remains unexcavated to this day. Some of the team's archeological discoveries are on display within the monastery, known as the Museum of Apollonia (opened in 1958) and other artifacts from Apollonia are in the capital Tirana. Unfortunately, during the anarchy that followed the collapse of the communist party in 1990 and reversion to capitalism, the archeological collection was plundered and the museum was temporarily closed. The ruins were also frequently dug up by plunderers for relics to be sold to collectors abroad.\nIn December 2011, a new museum opened, under the directorship of Marin Haxhimihali. It replaced an older museum dating from 1985, and was funded by UNESCO's MDG-F Joint Programme ”Culture and Heritage for Social and Economic Development”.\n\nIn 2006, archaeologists discovered a Greek temple which dates back to the 6th century B.C. just outside of the Apollonia.\n\nIn August 2010, a French-Albanian team of archaeologists unearthed a bust of a Roman soldier, 50 years after the discoveries of other full body statues in the 1958-1960 period expeditions, led by Albanian scholar Selim Islami and Russian Professor Blavatski.\n\nA German-Albanian team has been working on the Hellenistic theatre at Albania, throwing light on the development of Greek theatres and also local variants\n\nA bishopric was founded there circa 400 AD but usspressed around 599.\nOne of the participants in the Council of Ephesus in 431 was a Felix who signed once as Bishop of Apollonia and Byllis, at another time as Bishop of Apollonia. Some assume that the two towns formed a single episcopal see, others suppose he was, strictly speaking, Bishop only of Apollonia, but was temporarily in charge also of Byllis during a vacancy of that see (apostolic administrator). One of the participants at a council held in Constantinople in 448 signed as \"Paulus Episcopus Apolloniada al. Apolloniatarum, civitatis sanctae ecclesiae\", but it is uncertain whether he was associated with this Apollonia. At the Council of Chalcedon in 451, Eusebius subscribed simply as Bishop of Apollonia. In the letter of the bishops of Epirus Nova to the Byzantine Emperor Leo I in 458, Philocharis subscribes as Bishop of what the manuscripts call \"Vallidus\", and which editors think should be corrected to \"Byllis\". Whether Philocharis is to be considered Bishop also of Apollonia depends on the interpretation of the position of Felix in 431.\n\nThe \"Annuario Pontificio\" lists Apollonia as a titular see, thus recognizing that it was once a residential diocese, a suffragan of the archbishopric of Dyrrachium, It grants no such recognition to Byllis. Metropolitan of the Roman province of Epirus Novus.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18086935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18086935", "title": "April shower", "text": "April shower\n\nIn the United Kingdom and Ireland, an April shower is rain during the month of April. One of the major causes of the often heavy downpours is the position of the jet stream. In early spring, the jet stream starts to move northwards, allowing large depressions to bring strong winds and rain in from the Atlantic. In one day the weather can change from springtime sunshine to winter sleet and snow. The track of these depressions can often be across Ireland and Scotland bringing bands of rain followed by heavy showers (often of hail or snow) and strong blustery winds.\n\nThe proverb \"March winds and April showers bring forth May flowers\", first recorded in 1886, or the shorter, trochaic version \"April showers bring May flowers\" (originally \"Sweet April showers/Do spring May flowers\", part of a poem recorded in 1610) are common expressions in English speaking countries. The phrase is referenced in the General Prologue of The Canterbury Tales: \n\"Whan that Aprill, with his shoures soote \nThe droghte of March hath perced to the roote\".\n"}
{"id": "24592039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24592039", "title": "Asia Song Festival", "text": "Asia Song Festival\n\nAsia Song Festival, A-Song-Fe or ASF, is an annual Asian pop music festival held in South Korea, since 2004. It is hosted by Korea Foundation for International Culture Exchange (KOFICE) and features artists from Asian countries. This festival is recorded and broadcast on Seoul Broadcasting System in Korea and Fuji TV in Japan; and other major broadcasting stations around the world including United States, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Brunei, Philippines, Finland, Bulgaria, Vietnam and Singapore.\nParticipating artists are awarded a plaque of appreciation by the Korean Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism and \"Best Asian Artist\" by the chairman of Korea Foundation for International Culture and Exchange (KOFICE). South Korean boy band TVXQ is the only act to have participated for five consecutive years, since the 1st festival in 2004.\n\nThe theme song for the 2011 Festival \"Dreams Come True\", a duet by Lee Donghae of Super Junior and Seohyun of Girls' Generation was released on 11 October 2011 as a digital single. The proceeds from the sale were donated to Unicef to help children in African countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32315386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32315386", "title": "Atlantis of the Sands", "text": "Atlantis of the Sands\n\nAtlantis of the Sands is the fictional name of a legendary lost city in the southern Arabian sands, claimed to have been destroyed by a natural disaster or as a punishment by God. The search for it was popularised by the 1992 book \"Atlantis of the Sands – The Search for the Lost City of Ubar\" by Ranulph Fiennes. Various names have been given to this city, the most common being Ubar, Wabar and Iram.\n\nIn modern times, the mystery of the lost city of Atlantis has generated a number of books, films, articles, web pages, and two Disney features. On a smaller scale, Arabia has its own legend of a lost city, the so-called \"Atlantis of the Sands\", which has been the source of debate among historians, archaeologists and explorers, and a degree of controversy that continues to this day.\n\nIn February 1992, the \"New York Times\" announced a major archaeological discovery in the following terms: \"Guided by ancient maps and sharp-eyed surveys from space, archaeologists and explorers have discovered a lost city deep in the sands of Arabia, and they are virtually sure it is Ubar, the fabled entrepôt of the rich frankincense trade thousands of years ago.\" When news of this discovery spread quickly around the newspapers of the world, there seemed few people willing or able to challenge the dramatic findings, apart from the Saudi Arabian press.\n\nThe discovery was the result of the work of a team of archaeologists led by Nicholas Clapp, which had visited and excavated the site of a Bedouin well at Shisr in Dhofar province, Oman. The conclusion they reached, based on site excavations and an inspection of satellite photographs, was that this was the site of Ubar, or Iram of the Pillars, a name found in the Quran which may be a lost city, a tribe or an area. Sir Ranulph Fiennes, another member of the expedition, declared that this was Omanum Emporium of Ptolemy's famous map of Arabia Felix.\n\nA contemporary notice at the entrance to an archaeological site at Shisr in the province of Dhofar, Oman, proclaims: \"Welcome to Ubar, the Lost City of Bedouin Legend\". However, scholars are divided over whether this really is the site of a legendary lost city of the sands.\n\nIn 1930, the explorer Bertram Thomas had been approaching the southern edge of the Rub' al Khali (\"The Empty Quarter\"). It was Thomas' ambition to be the first European to cross the great sands but, as he began his camel journey, he was told by his Bedouin escorts of a lost city whose wicked people had attracted the wrath of God and had been destroyed. He found no trace of a lost city in the sands, but Thomas later related the story to T.E. Lawrence (\"Lawrence of Arabia\"), who regarded Ubar as the \"Atlantis of the Sands\". Thomas marked on a map the location of track that was said to lead to the legendary lost city of Ubar and, although he intended to return to follow it, he was never able to.\n\nThe story of a lost city in the sands became an explorer's fascination; a few wrote accounts of their travels that perpetuated the tale. T. E. Lawrence planned to search for the location of a lost city somewhere in the sands, telling a fellow traveller that he was convinced that the remains of an Arab civilization were to be found in the desert. He had been told that the Bedu had seen the ruins of the castles of King Ad in the region of Wabar. In his view the best way to explore the sands was by airship, but his plans never came to fruition.\n\nThe English explorer Wilfred Thesiger visited the well at Shisr in the spring of 1946, \"where the ruins of a crude stone fort on a rocky eminence marks the position of this famous well.\" He noted that some shards found there were possibly early Islamic. The well was the only permanent watering place in those parts and, being a necessary watering place for Bedouin raiders, had been the scene of many fierce encounters in the past,\n\nIn March 1948 a geological party from Petroleum Development (Oman and Dhofar) Ltd, an associate company of the Iraq Petroleum Company, carried out a camel-borne survey of Dhofar province. Like Thesiger, the party approached Shisr from the south, along the Wadi Ghudun. Their first sight of Ash Shisur was a white cliff in the distance. As they drew closer, they could see that the cliff was in fact the wall of a ruined fort built above a large quarry-like cave, the entrance of which was obscured by a sand dune.\n\nThe fort had been built from the same white rock as the overhanging cliff, giving the impression of a single structure. One of the geologists noted: “There are no houses, tents or people here: only the tumble-down ruin of this pre-Islamic fort.” The geologists, without the benefit of modern satellite analysis or archaeological equipment, were unimpressed by the ruin. Shisur, like Ma Shedid a few days before, was a simply ‘difficult water’ and their escorts spent the best part of their 3-day stay trying to extract water for their camels from the well.\n\nIn 1953, oil man and philanthropist Wendell Phillips set out to discover Thomas' track but was unable to follow it because of the heavy sands which made further travel by motor transport impossible.\n\nSome 35 years later, Clapp and his team reported uncovering what they described as a large octagonal fortress dating back some 2,000 years beneath the crumbling fort, and described a vast limestone table that lay beneath the main gate which had collapsed into a massive sinkhole around the well. This, some concluded, was the fabled city of Ubar, which was also known as Iram, or at least a city in the region of Ubar, once an important trading post on the incense route from Dhofar to the Mediterranean region.\n\nSome pointed to religious texts to support the theory that the city was destroyed as a punishment by God. Iram, for example, was described in the Qur'an as follows: \"Have you not considered how your Lord dealt with 'Aad - [with] Iram - who had lofty pillars, The like of which were not produced in (all) the land?\" (Surat al-Fajr: 6–8)\n\nBertram Thomas' guide pointed to wide tracks between the dunes and said: “Look, Sahib, there is the way to Ubar. It was great in treasure, with date gardens and a fort of red silver. It now lies beneath the sands of the Ramlat Shu’ait.” Thomas also wrote, \"on my previous journeys I had heard from other Arabs of\nthe name of this Atlantis of the Sands, but none could tell me of even an approximate location.\"\n\nMost tales of the lost city locate it somewhere in the Rub' al Khali desert, also known as the Empty Quarter. This covers most of the southern third of the Arabian Peninsula, including most of Saudi Arabia and areas of Oman, the United Arab Emirates, and Yemen. St. John Philby (who preferred the name \"Wabar\") was an English adviser to Emir Aziz bin Saud in Riyadh. He first heard the story of Ubar from his Bedouin guide who told him about a place of ruined castles where King Ad had stabled his horses and housed his women before being punished for his sinful ways by being destroyed by fire from heaven.\n\nAnxious to seal his reputation as a great explorer, Philby went in search of the lost city of Wabar but, instead of finding ruins, discovered what he described as extinct volcano half-buried in the sands or, possibly, the remnants of a meteorite impact. Modern research has revealed this latter event to have been the cause of the depression in the sands.\nGeologist H. Stewart Edgell observed that for the \"last six thousand years the Empty Quarter has been continuously a sand-dune desert, presenting a hostile environment where no city could have been built.\"\n\nNicholas Clapp claimed that the discovery of the remains of towers at the excavation site supported the theory that this was the site of Ubar, the city of 'Ad with \"lofty pillars\" described in the Qur'an. Thomas dismissed the ruins at the well of Ash Shisur as a 'rude' fort which he took to be only a few hundred years old.\n\nRanulph Fiennes, explorer and adventurer, was a member of Clapp's expedition and speculated that Ubar was identified on ancient maps as \"Omanum Emporium\". This was a place marked on a map of Arabia compiled by Claudius Ptolemy in about 150 AD.\n\nWhen the explorer Freya Stark consulted the works of Arab geographers, she found a wide range of opinions as to the location of Wabar: “Yaqut says: \"In Yemen is the qaria of Wabar.\" El-Laith, quoted by Yaqut, puts it between the sands of Yabrin and Yemen. Ibn Ishaq… places it between \"Sabub (unknown to Yaqut and Hamdani) and the Hadhramaut. Hamdani, a very reliable man, places it between Najran, Hadhramaut, Shihr and Mahra. Yaqut, presumably citing Hamdani, puts it between the boundaries of Shihr and San'a, and then, on the authority of Abu Mundhir between the sands of B.Sa'd (near Yabrin) and Shihr and Mahra. Abu Mundhir puts it between Hadhramaut and Najran.”\n\n“With such evidence,” Stark concluded, “it seems quite possible for Mr. Thomas and Mr. Philby each to find Wabar in an opposite corner of Arabia.”\n\nNicholas Clapp's search for Ubar began after he read Thomas' book \"Arabia Felix\". Clapp had just returned from Oman, having helped to stock an oryx sanctuary on the Jiddat al Harassis, and was inspired by Thomas' references to the lost city of Ubar.\nHe began his search for Ubar in the library of the University of California in Los Angeles, and found a 2nd-century AD map by the Alexandrian geographer Claudius Ptolemy which showed a place called \"Omanum Emporium\". He speculated that this might be the location of Ubar, situated on the incense route between Dhofar and the Mediterranean region. Aware that Mayan remains had been identified from aerial photographs, Clapp contacted NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory and obtained satellite images of Dhofar. These helped to identify ancient camel tracks hidden beneath the shifting sands of the desert which in turn might identify places of convergence such as wells and ancient cities.\n\nAfter Clapp's team had visited a number of possible sites for Ubar, they found themselves drawn back to the crumbling ruin at Shisr. Although the fort had been written off as being no more than a few hundred years old by the earlier explorers, Clapp's team began to speculate that the fort had been rebuilt in the 1500s on the remains of a far more ancient site.\n\nUnder the direction of Dr. Juris Zarins, the team began excavation, and within weeks had unearthed the wall and towers of a fortress dating back more than 2,000 years. Clapp suggested that the evidence was \"a convincing match\" for the legendary lost city of Ubar. The city's destruction, he postulated, happened between A.D. 300 and 500 as the result of an earthquake which precipitated the collapse of the limestone table; but it was the decline of the incense trade, which led to the decline of the caravan routes through Shisr, that sealed Ubar's fate.\n\nZarins himself concluded that Shisr did not represent a city called Ubar. In a 1996 interview, on the subject of Ubar, he said: “There's a lot of confusion about that word. If you look at the classical texts and the Arab historical sources, Ubar refers to a region and a group of people, not to a specific town. People always overlook that. It's very clear on Ptolemy’s second century map of the area. It says in big letters \"Iobaritae\" And in his text that accompanied the maps, he's very clear about that. It was only the late medieval version of \"One Thousand and One Nights\", in the fourteenth or fifteenth century, that romanticised Ubar and turned it into a city, rather than a region or a people.\"\n\nIn a more recent paper he suggested that modern Habarut may be the site of Ubar.\n\nBy 2007, following further research and excavation, their findings could be summarised as follows:\n\n\nThe Saudi Arabian press was generally sceptical about the discovery of Ubar in Oman, with Dr. Abdullah al Masri, Assistant Under-Secretary of Archaeological Affairs stating that similar sites had been found in Saudi Arabia over the past 15 years. In \"Ashawq al Awsat\" he explained: “The best of these sites was when, in 1975, we uncovered more than one city on the edge of the Empty Quarter, in particular the oasis on Jabreen. Also the name of Ubar is similar to that of Obar, an oasis in eastern Saudi Arabia. We must await further details but so far we have far more important discoveries at Jabreen or Najran.” However, Professor Mohammed Bakalla of King Saud University wrote that he would not be surprised if Ad’s nation cities were found underneath the Shisr excavation or in the close vicinity.\n\nMore recent academic opinion is less than convinced about the accuracy of Clapp’s findings. One reviewer noted that Clapp himself did not help matters by including a speculative chapter about the king of Ubar in his book, \"The Road to Ubar\", which in his view undermined his narrative authority: “its fictional drama pales next to the gripping real-life story of the Ubar expedition recounted in earlier portions of this volume.”\n\nThe case for Shisr being Omanum Emporium has been questioned by recent research. Nigel Groom commented in an article “Oman and the Emirates in Ptolemy's Map” published in 2007, that Ptolemy’s map of Arabia contained many wild distortions. The word “Emporium” in the original Greek meant a place for wholesale trade of commodities carried by sea, and was sometimes an inland city where taxes were collected and trade conducted. Thus the term could be applied to a town that was some distance from the coast. This, Groom suggests, may have been the case with Ptolemy’s ’Omanum Emporium’. He suggested that the Hormanus River, the source of which is marked on Ptolemy’s map as being north-east of Omanus Emporium, was in fact the Wadi Halfrain which rises some 20 kilometres north east of Izki in modern-day central Oman. Thus, Groom concludes, Omanum Emprorium was likely to have been located at Izki, possibly Nizwa, or in their vicinity.\n\nH. Stewart Edgell contended that Ubar is essentially mythical and makes arguments against any significant historical role for Shisr beyond that of a small caravansary. Edgell suggested that the building was small and used by a few families at most. He believed that all the “discovery” of Ubar showed was how easily scientists can succumb to wishful thinking.\n\nIn an article on the Shisr excavations entitled \"On the Incense Trail: The Empty Quarter to the Indian Ocean, In Search of the City of 'Ubar'\", Professor Barri Jones wrote: \"The archaeological integrity of the site should not be allowed to be affected by possible disputes regarding its name.\" A 2001 report for UNESCO states: \"The Oasis of Shisr and the entrepots of Khor Rori and Al-Balid are outstanding examples of medieval fortified settlements in the Persian Gulf region.\" \n\nWriting about 'Wabbar', Michael Macdonald expressed doubts about the \"discovery\" since the site was known for decades and Sir Ranulph was stationed there.\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "21236041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21236041", "title": "Best in the Desert", "text": "Best in the Desert\n\nThe Best In The Desert (BITD) Racing Association is an American desert off-road racing association. It is operated by Casey Folks and it is based out of Las Vegas, Nevada. BITD runs the Vegas To Reno, the longest off-road race in the United States, and since 2012 is the sanctioning body of the Mint 400.\n\nIt has 9 events scheduled for the 2015 season (2015 Schedule).\n\n\n\nEvents are nationally televised on MavTV, its website, and the America One Sports Network.\n\nThe Best In The Desert has classes of Trick Trucks (aka Trophy Truck), buggies, motorcycles, Quads. Various events have different classes of racing vehicles.\n\n(Marc Stein) Class Champion 10 times www.aceuniforms.com Ford Expedition Ford F150 Ford Explorer Winner of the Nevada 2000 and 30 other BITD Races\n\n"}
{"id": "56441694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56441694", "title": "Cam Ne incident", "text": "Cam Ne incident\n\nThe Cam Ne incident was a Vietnam War incident involving U.S. military and South Vietnamese civilians that occurred at the village of Cam Ne in Quảng Nam Province, South Vietnam, and became one of the top news stories in the United States about the war. \n\nIn the summer of 1965, U.S. Marines were patrolling southwest of the city of Da Nang. Units of the 1st Battalion, 9th Marines were operating around Cam Ne. On July 12, the Marines received fire from a Viet Cong (VC) force coming from the hamlet of Cam Ne 4 (numbered in order to identify it in the complex of six villages of the same name). Patrolling in the area continued during July and into August. The Americans claimed Cam Ne to be a VC stronghold and its residents Communist sympathizers. Commonplace military procedure for US forces when villages or areas were generally uncooperative or hostile were to burn down the villages and rounding up civilians for deportation to refugee camps in urban areas or RVN-controlled areas.\n\nOn 3 August 1965, Company D, 1/9 Marines was sent to Cam Ne in support of Operation Blastout with orders to destroy the VC forces and their fortifications, including any structures from which they received fire. As the Marines moved into Cam Ne they were met with sporadic fire, wounding one Marine, but the VC withdrew, refusing to stand and fight. The entire village was extensively entrenched and fortified and the Marines found 267 Punji stick traps, 3 grenade booby traps and 6 anti-personnel mines. The Marines then proceeded to destroy 51 huts and 38 trenches, tunnels and fighting positions. With dusk approaching the Marines began to withdraw and again came under fire from the VC, the Marines then called in an artillery and mortar barrage and 4 105mm shells and 21 81mm mortar rounds hit the VC positions.\n\nCBS news correspondent Morley Safer was in Da Nang to report on Marine activities. On 3 August Safer joined the Marines headed for Cam Ne. Safer was accompanied by a South Vietnamese cameraman, Ha Tue Can. The operation at Cam Ne was filmed by Can and narrated by Safer. The film showed a Marine, armed with a rifle, lighting a hut with his cigarette lighter. No opposition was evident. According to Safer's report the Marines were under orders to burn to the ground any hamlet from which they receive even a single burst of sniper fire. Old men and women who were pleading for the Marines to spare their houses were ignored. The houses and personal belongings were burned. Pleas from the villagers to delay while their possessions were removed were ignored. All rice stores were burned. The day's operation netted four prisoners, all of whom were old men.\n\nCBS realized they had an important and powerful story as soon as it was received in New York. CBS News President Fred Friendly confirmed the validity of the story with Safer. The images were shocking, but the network felt the story was important and should be shown. The incident was broadcast on CBS Evening News on August 5, 1965.\n\nReaction to the Cam Ne report was immediate and powerful. CBS was inundated with calls and letters critical of this negative portrayal of American military personnel. The day after the film was broadcast, U. S. President Lyndon Johnson telephoned CBS President Frank Stanton to complain the report insulted the American flag. The President ordered a background investigation on Safer, certain he was working for the Communists. No such affiliation was found. LBJ next ordered an investigation of the Marine officer in charge of the Cam Ne operation, certain Safer must have bribed the Marine to burn Cam Ne. Nothing came of this either. The Pentagon asked CBS to replace Safer as Vietnam correspondent. The Department of Defense began monitoring the evening television newscasts. Safer followed up his initial report with additional broadcasts critical of Marine operations in the area. The commander of the Marines in Vietnam, Major General Lew Walt, banned Safer from all of I Corps, the Marine Corps area of responsibility in South Vietnam (the order was later rescinded).\n\nIn the days that followed, the U.S. media carried additional stories of the impact of Marine operations on South Vietnamese civilians around Da Nang.\n\nThe huts were burned to ensure they would not be reused by VC forces after the Americans moved on. The Viet Cong force estimated to be between 30 and 100 strong had fired upon the Marines as they withdrew from the village. Four Marines were wounded and one Vietnamese child were killed in the fighting. No enemy bodies were found; the Marines assumed they carried off their dead. The Marines used great force on August 3 at Cam Ne because they expected it to be occupied by Viet Cong soldiers. They had taken casualties there the previous month. They felt the CBS report was distorted and were critical of CBS for telling only part of the story.\n\nOn 9 August, another Marine unit operating near Cam Ne came under enemy fire: two Marines were killed and more than twenty were wounded. The Marines decided to complete the job of securing the area. On 18 August the Marines returned in force, but this time, the villagers were given full warning. In addition to searching Cam Ne, the Marines built shelters for Vietnamese civilians. The entire village was cleared. No VC were found in Cam Ne and there were no casualties.\n\nAlthough American military commanders considered Safer's report both distorted and incomplete, they were not unresponsive to it. They realized killing civilians and destruction of village property had serious consequences in a struggle where winning hearts and minds was an essential component of military victory.\n\nOver a year later during two Operation County Fair a joint US-ARVN sweep of the village complex (not necessarily the same village as Cam Ne refers to a set of six villages) on 17 March 1966, 3rd Battalion, 3rd Marines claiming to have killed 2 VC in the village and captured a suspected VC nurse and held 13 others for questioning an found two ARVN deserters.\n\nIn order to balance its initial, critical reports, subsequent CBS reports presented positive aspects of Marine operations in the Cam Ne area. COMUSMACV General William Westmoreland ordered the preparation of new guidelines concerning contact between U.S. military forces and Vietnamese civilians. Published in September 1968 nearly 3 years after the event, the rules forbade indiscriminate destruction of populated areas . When possible, villagers were to receive advance warning of upcoming assaults. South Vietnamese troops would accompany the American forces to assist in searching dwellings and communicating with civilians. Although the Pentagon considered censoring American journalists reporting from Vietnam, the plans were never adopted.\n"}
{"id": "53730306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53730306", "title": "Caymanian general election, 1984", "text": "Caymanian general election, 1984\n\nGeneral elections were held in the Cayman Islands in November 1984. The ruling Unity Team led by Jim Bodden lost all eight seats due to a scandal over Caymanian banks being used to launder drug money. The opposition Dignity Team of Benson Ebanks won three seats in the Legislative Assembly, but the majority (nine) were won by independents. Ebanks subsequently became Chief Minister after forming a coalition.\n"}
{"id": "5291381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5291381", "title": "Charles Leale", "text": "Charles Leale\n\nCharles Augustus Leale (March 26, 1842 – June 13, 1932) was a surgeon in the Union Army during the American Civil War.\nHe was the first doctor to arrive at the presidential box at Ford's Theatre on April 14, 1865 after John Wilkes Booth\nfatally shot President Abraham Lincoln in the back of the head with a Philadelphia Deringer pistol. His quick efforts temporarily saved President Lincoln's life, which allowed Lincoln to live until the next morning. Charles Leale continued to serve in the army until 1866. He then returned to his home town of New York City where he established a successful private practice and became involved in charitable medical care. One of the last surviving witnesses to Lincoln’s death, Dr. Charles A. Leale died in 1932 at the age of 90.\n\nAt the time, Leale was a 23-year-old surgeon in charge of the Wounded Commissioned Officers' Ward at the United States Army General Hospital in Armory Square, Washington, DC. Just six weeks earlier, he'd graduated in medicine from Bellevue Hospital Medical College in New York City. He married a daughter of Yonkers, New York, industrialist John Copcutt (1805–1895) at the historic John Copcutt Mansion.\n\nA few days before Lincoln's assassination, Leale took a brief break from his exhausting job and took a walk down Pennsylvania Avenue for some fresh air. He noticed a crowd of people heading towards the White House. He discovered Lincoln giving his last public address to the public and was intrigued by the president's facial features. Soon after, Leale learned that Lincoln was going to Ford's Theatre to see the play \"Our American Cousin\". \"After completing his duties...Leale changed to civilian clothes and rushed to the Theater, not to see the play, but to study President Lincoln's face and facial expressions.\" He asked for a seat in the orchestra so he would have an unhindered view, but arrived late and was given a seat in the dress circle (near the front, same side and 40 ft away from the president's box).\n\nThere was an interruption in the play when Lincoln arrived. The orchestra played \"Hail to the Chief\" and the audience gave a standing ovation. Leale could see the full face of the president as he stood only a few aisles behind him. What was to be a short observation of the president's face would turn into nine hours of close doctoring for Charles Leale. When John Wilkes Booth jumped down from the presidential box to the stage. Leale stated that Booth \"ran to the opposite side of the stage, flourishing in his hand a drawn dagger and vanishing behind the scene.\" Leale's statement of Booth running across the stage is an enforcer of Michael Kauffman's idea in \"American Brutus,\" that Booth did not break his leg from the fall from the banister, but rather from a fall off his horse as he fled. Leale, seeing this, immediately rushed to the president's box. When he arrived, he saw Lincoln slumped in his armchair supported by Mrs. Lincoln, who was weeping frantically. Leale received permission to take charge. He found the President unresponsive, barely breathing and with no detectable pulse: \"His eyes were closed and he was in a profoundly comatose condition, while his breathing was intermittent and exceedingly stertorous.\" He laid the president down on the floor and initially thinking that Lincoln had been stabbed in the shoulder, searched for wounds. Finding none, he further detected that Lincoln's eyes were dilated and finally found \"a large clot of blood about one inch below the superior curved line and an inch and a half to the left of the median line of the occipital bone in the back of the skull,\" that showed that he had been shot. Leale attempted to remove the bullet, but the bullet was too deep in his head and instead Leale dislodged a clot of blood in the wound. Consequently, Lincoln's breathing improved. Leale learned that if he continued to release more blood clots at a specific time, Lincoln would breathe more naturally. He allowed actress Laura Keene to cradle the president's head in her lap. His assessment of the dire condition of the president (\"his wound is mortal; it is impossible for him to recover\") was announced to the entire country.\n\nArmy surgeon Dr. Charles S. Taft and Dr. Albert F. A. King of Washington then joined Leale and conceded that Lincoln would not survive a carriage ride back to the White House. Leale ordered that Lincoln be moved to the Petersen House across the street so that he could rest in comfort. Leale gave control over the president to the Lincoln family physician, Robert K. Stone, and the commander of the Armory Square Hospital, D. W. Bliss. Lincoln was placed on a bed diagonally, for his 6'4\" body was too long to fit lengthwise. He remained in a coma for approximately nine hours before passing away at 7:22 the next morning. Lincoln never regained consciousness. For most of the night, Leale held the comatose president's hand with a firm grip, \"to let him know that he was in touch with humanity and had a friend.\" According to some accounts, at his last drawn breath, on the morning after the assassination, he smiled broadly and then expired.\n\nThough some experts have disagreed, Dr. Leale's treatment of Lincoln has been considered good for its time. He was honored for his efforts to save the president by being allowed to participate in various capacities during the funeral ceremonies.\nAlthough Leale submitted a report in 1867 to Representative Benjamin F. Butler's House commission investigating the assassination, Leale's account of Lincoln's death was not publicly revealed until the 100th anniversary of Lincoln's birth in 1909. In that year Leale spoke on \"Lincoln's Last Hour\" to the New York commandery of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States. His 1865 written report to the Surgeon General of the United States was thought lost until 2008, when a 22-page photocopy was found in the Georgetown University Library and published.\nSeemingly written just hours after the assassination, a second copy was found in the National Archives in June 2012.\n\nLeale was one of the last surviving attendees of Lincoln's assassination upon his death in 1932 at the age of 90.\n\nThe cuff of the shirt that Leale wore the night of the assassination, stained with Lincoln's blood, was later donated by his granddaughter to the National Museum of American History.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063834", "title": "Charles P. Cabell", "text": "Charles P. Cabell\n\nCharles Pearre Cabell (October 11, 1903 – May 25, 1971) was a United States Air Force General and Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (1953–1962).\n\nHe was the son of Ben E. (son of Confederate general William L. Cabell) and Sadie E. (Pearre) Cabell and attended Oak Cliff High School in Dallas, Texas. He graduated from West Point in 1925. He was initially commissioned as an artillery lieutenant and served in the field artillery until 1931, when he went to flying school, and was transferred to the Air Corps. He served in a variety of aviation roles as a staff officer and squadron commander throughout the pre-war years, primarily in observation and pursuit squadrons. His observation roles led naturally to his later involvement in photographic and intelligence roles.\n\nCabell achieved the rank of colonel in 1942 and brigadier general in 1944, serving both at air force headquarters at the Pentagon and in the European Theater. During the late 1940s and early 1950s, he held a variety of staff headquarters positions, including chief of Air Force Intelligence 1948-1951, and director of the staff for the Joint Chiefs of Staff from 1951-1953.\n\nIn 1949, Cabell set up Project Grudge to \"make a study reviewing the UFO situation for AF HQ.\" However, Grudge quickly became all but moribund, while simultaneously reporting that all UFO cases were being closely investigated. When Cabell learned of this, he ordered Grudge dissolved and ordered that the \"open minded\" Project Blue Book be created.\n\nIn November 1951, he was named director of the Joint Staff for the Joint Chiefs of Staff. During this time, he was promoted to Lieutenant General.\n\nIn 1952, he was an enthusiastic promoter of the U-2 spy plane, along with Allen Welsh Dulles and John Foster Dulles.\n\nOn April 23, 1953, while still an active air force officer, he was appointed Deputy Director of the CIA under Allen Dulles. In 1956, along with the CIA's Richard Bissell, he flew to Bonn, to brief the West German Chancellor, Konrad Adenauer, on the U-2 program. Adenauer allowed U-2 planes, pilots, and support teams to be based at Wiesbaden. He was promoted to full general in 1958.\n\nCabell was forced to resign as Deputy Director by President Kennedy on January 31, 1962, following the failure of the Bay of Pigs Invasion. Cabell's brother, Earle Cabell, was Mayor of Dallas when Kennedy visited that city and was assassinated, on November 22, 1963.\n\nGeneral Cabell died in 1971, four years before his brother Earle.\n\nOne hypothesis regarding the assassination of U.S. President John F. Kennedy, has to do with the so-called Renegade CIA Clique\", where one attempts to implicate Cabell and several other CIA officials, including James Jesus Angleton and William King Harvey, as well as the \"three tramps\", and Cabell's brother Earle Cabell.\n\nDuring Jim Garrison's 1973 bribery trial, tape recordings from March 1971 revealed that Garrison considered publicly implicating Cabell of conspiracy in the assassination after learning he was the brother of the Dallas mayor. Theorizing that a plot to kill the President was masterminded out of New Orleans in conjunction with the CIA with cooperation from the Dallas police department and city government, Garrison tasked his chief investigator, Pershing Gervais, of looking into the possibility that Cabell had stayed in the city's Fontainebleau Motel at the time of the assassination. \"The Washington Post\" reported that there was no evidence that Gervais ever followed through with the request and that there was no further mention of Cabell in Garrison's investigation.\n\nCabell was married to Jacklyn DeHymel in 1934; they had two sons, Charles P. Cabell, Jr. and Benjamin Cabell IV, and one daughter, Catharine C. Bennett. He left an autobiography \"A Man of Intelligence: Memoirs of War, Peace and the CIA\" published in 1997. His oldest son Charles was also an Air Force officer and West Point graduate (Class of 1958), achieving the rank of brigadier general.\n\nHe was a tenth-generation descendant of Pocahontas and a third cousin of Navy four-star admiral Richard H. Jackson.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21589515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21589515", "title": "Chennai Sangamam", "text": "Chennai Sangamam\n\nChennai Sangamam (Tamil: சென்னை சங்கமம்) is a large annual open Tamil cultural festival held in the city of Chennai. The festival is organized by the Tamil Maiyam and Department of Tourism and Culture of the Government of Tamil Nadu with the intention of rejuvenating the old village festivals, art and artists. The festival is centered on the occasion of Tamil harvest festival of Pongal, and takes place for a week-long period. The festival is conceived to be the longest and biggest open Festival in India.\n\nThe idea of organizing a festival during Pongal showcasing the culture of Tamil Nadu was conceived by Kanimozhi, Member of Parliament from Tamil Nadu and daughter of M Karunanidhi and Rev.Fr. Jegath Gaspar Raj, founder of Tamil Maiyam, in September 2006. The festival was rolled out in 2007, with patronization of the Government of Tamil Nadu.\n\nThe festival is organized at various places in Chennai city including beaches, parks, corporation grounds, college / school grounds and shopping malls. The idea to have it in the open parks, beaches and streets was an inspiration from the Bengaluru Habba celebrations. The events that mark the festival include traditional and folk music shows folk dances, martial arts, classical music and dance performances, street plays, drama / theater, etc. Apart from these, food component got added in the second edition of Chennai Sangamam in 2008 where food outlets catering traditional Tamil cuisine also became part of the celebrations. More than 2,000 performers take part in the event which accommodates around 4,000 performances annually.\n"}
{"id": "417262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=417262", "title": "Christmas truce", "text": "Christmas truce\n\nThe Christmas truce (; ) was a series of widespread but unofficial ceasefires along the Western Front of World War I around Christmas 1914.\n\nThe Christmas truce occurred during the relatively early period of the war (month 5 of 51). Hostilities had entered somewhat of a lull as leadership on both sides reconsidered their strategies following the stalemate of the Race to the Sea and the indecisive result of the First Battle of Ypres. In the week leading up to the 25th, French, German, and British soldiers crossed trenches to exchange seasonal greetings and talk. In some areas, men from both sides ventured into no man's land on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day to mingle and exchange food and souvenirs. There were joint burial ceremonies and prisoner swaps, while several meetings ended in carol-singing. Men played games of football with one another, giving one of the most memorable images of the truce. Peaceful behaviour was not ubiquitous; fighting continued in some sectors, while in others the sides settled on little more than arrangements to recover bodies.\n\nThe following year, a few units arranged ceasefires but the truces were not nearly as widespread as in 1914; this was, in part, due to strongly worded orders from the high commands of both sides prohibiting truces. Soldiers were no longer amenable to truce by 1916. The war had become increasingly bitter after devastating human losses suffered during the battles of the Somme and Verdun, and the use of poison gas.\n\nThe truces were not unique to the Christmas period, and reflected a mood of \"live and let live\", where infantry close together would stop overtly aggressive behaviour and often engage in small-scale fraternisation, engaging in conversation or bartering for cigarettes. In some sectors, there would be occasional ceasefires to allow soldiers to go between the lines and recover wounded or dead comrades, while in others, there would be a tacit agreement not to shoot while men rested, exercised or worked in full view of the enemy. The Christmas truces were particularly significant due to the number of men involved and the level of their participation — even in very peaceful sectors, dozens of men openly congregating in daylight was remarkable — and are often seen as a symbolic moment of peace and humanity amidst one of the most violent events of human history.\n\nDuring the first five months of World War I, the German attack through Belgium into France had been repelled outside Paris by French and British troops at the Battle of the Marne in early September 1914. The Germans fell back to the Aisne valley, where they prepared defensive positions. In the subsequent Battle of the Aisne, the Allied forces were unable to push through the German line, and the fighting quickly degenerated into a stalemate; neither side was willing to give ground, and both started to develop fortified systems of trenches. To the north, on the right of the German army, there had been no defined front line, and both sides quickly began to try to use this gap to outflank one another. In the ensuing \"Race to the Sea\", the two sides repeatedly clashed, each trying to push forward and threaten the end of the other's line. After several months of fighting, during which the British forces were withdrawn from the Aisne and sent north into Flanders, the northern flank had developed into a similar stalemate. By November, there was a continuous front line running from the North Sea to the Swiss frontier, occupied on both sides by armies in prepared defensive positions.\n\nIn the lead up to Christmas 1914, there were several peace initiatives. The Open Christmas Letter was a public message for peace addressed \"To the Women of Germany and Austria\", signed by a group of 101 British women suffragettes at the end of 1914 as the first Christmas of World War I approached. Pope Benedict XV, on 7 December 1914, had begged for an official truce between the warring governments. He asked \"that the guns may fall silent at least upon the night the angels sang.\" This attempt was officially rebuffed.\n\nFraternisation—peaceful and sometimes friendly interactions between opposing forces—was a regular feature in quiet front-line sectors of the Western Front. In some areas, it manifested as a passive inactivity, where both sides would refrain from overtly aggressive or threatening behaviour, while in other cases it extended to regular conversation or even visits from one trench to another.\n\nTruces between British and German units can be dated to early November 1914, around the time opposing armies had begun static trench warfare. At this time, both sides' rations were brought up to the front line after dusk, and soldiers on both sides noted a period of peace while they collected their food. By 1 December, a British soldier could record a friendly visit from a German sergeant one morning \"to see how we were getting on\". Relations between French and German units were generally more tense, but the same phenomenon began to emerge. In early December, a German surgeon recorded a regular half-hourly truce each evening to recover dead soldiers for burial, during which French and German soldiers exchanged newspapers. This behaviour was often challenged by junior and senior officers; the young Charles de Gaulle wrote on 7 December of the \"lamentable\" desire of French infantrymen to leave the enemy in peace, while the commander of 10th Army, Victor d'Urbal, wrote of the \"unfortunate consequences\" when men \"become familiar with their neighbours opposite\". Other truces could be enforced on both sides by weather conditions, especially when trench lines flooded in low-lying areas, though these often lasted after the weather had cleared. On the Eastern Front, Fritz Kreisler reported incidents of spontaneous truces and fraternisation between the Austro-Hungarians and Russians in the first few weeks of the war.\n\nThe proximity of trench lines made it easy for soldiers to shout greetings to each other, and this may have been the most common method of arranging informal truces during 1914. Men would frequently exchange news or greetings, helped by a common language; many German soldiers had lived in England, particularly London, and were familiar with the language and the culture. Several British soldiers recorded instances of Germans asking about news from the football leagues, while other conversations could be as banal as discussions of the weather or as plaintive as messages for a sweetheart. One unusual phenomenon that grew in intensity was music; in peaceful sectors, it was not uncommon for units to sing in the evenings, sometimes deliberately with an eye towards entertaining or gently taunting their opposite numbers. This shaded gently into more festive activity; in early December, Sir Edward Hulse of the Scots Guards wrote that he was planning to organise a concert party for Christmas Day, which would \"give the enemy every conceivable form of song in harmony\" in response to frequent choruses of \"Deutschland Über Alles\".\n\nRoughly 100,000 British and German troops were involved in the unofficial cessations of hostility along the Western Front. The first truce started on Christmas Eve 1914, when German troops decorated the area around their trenches in the region of Ypres, Belgium and particularly in Saint-Yvon (called Saint-Yves, in Plugstreet/Ploegsteert – Comines-Warneton), where Capt. Bruce Bairnsfather described the truce.\n\nThe Germans placed candles on their trenches and on Christmas trees, then continued the celebration by singing Christmas carols. The British responded by singing carols of their own. The two sides continued by shouting Christmas greetings to each other. Soon thereafter, there were excursions across No Man's Land, where small gifts were exchanged, such as food, tobacco and alcohol, and souvenirs such as buttons and hats. The artillery in the region fell silent. The truce also allowed a breathing spell where recently killed soldiers could be brought back behind their lines by burial parties. Joint services were held. In many sectors, the truce lasted through Christmas night, continuing until New Year's Day in others.\n\nOn Christmas Day, Brigadier-General Walter Congreve, then commanding 18 Infantry Brigade, stationed near Neuve Chapelle, wrote a letter recalling the Germans initiated by calling a truce for the day. One of his brigade's men bravely lifted his head above the parapet and others from both sides walked onto no man's land. Officers and men shook hands and exchanged cigarettes and cigars, one of his captains \"smoked a cigar with the best shot in the German army\", the latter no more than 18 years old. Congreve admitted he was reluctant to personally witness the scene of the truce for fear he would be a prime target for German snipers.\n\nBruce Bairnsfather, who served throughout the war, wrote:\nFuture nature writer Henry Williamson, then a nineteen-year-old private in the London Rifle Brigade, wrote to his mother on Boxing Day: \nCaptain Sir Edward Hulse reported how the first interpreter he met from the German lines was from Suffolk where he had left his girlfriend and a 3.5 hp motorcycle. Hulse went on to describe a sing-song which \"ended up with 'Auld lang syne' which we all, English, Scots, Irish, Prussians, Württenbergers, etc, joined in. It was absolutely astounding, and if I had seen it on a cinematograph film I should have sworn that it was faked!\"\n\nCaptain Robert Patrick Miles, King's Shropshire Light Infantry, who was attached to the Royal Irish Rifles recalled in an edited letter that was published in both the \"Daily Mail\" and the \"Wellington Journal & Shrewsbury News\" in January 1915, following his death in action on 30 December 1914: \nOf the Germans he wrote: \"They are distinctly bored with the war... In fact, one of them wanted to know what on earth we were doing here fighting them.\" The truce in that sector continued into Boxing Day; he commented about the Germans, \"The beggars simply disregard all our warnings to get down from off their parapet, so things are at a deadlock. We can't shoot them in cold blood... I cannot see how we can get them to return to business.\"\n\nOn Christmas Eve and Christmas Day (24 and 25 December) 1914, Alfred Anderson’s unit of the 1st/5th Battalion of the Black Watch was billeted in a farmhouse away from the front line. In a later interview (2003), Anderson, the last known surviving Scottish veteran of the war, vividly recalled Christmas Day and said:\nNor were the observations confined to the British. German Lieutenant Johannes Niemann wrote: \"grabbed my binoculars and looking cautiously over the parapet saw the incredible sight of our soldiers exchanging cigarettes, schnapps and chocolate with the enemy.\"\n\nGeneral Sir Horace Smith-Dorrien, commander of the British II Corps, issued orders forbidding friendly communication with the opposing German troops. Adolf Hitler, then a young corporal of the 16th Bavarian Reserve Infantry, was also an opponent of the truce.\nIn the Comines sector of the front there was an early fraternization between German and French soldiers in December 1914, during a short truce, and there are at least two other testimonials, from French soldiers, of similar behaviours in sectors where German and French companies opposed each other. Gervais Morillon wrote to his parents: ‘The Boches waved a white flag and shouted \"Kamarades, Kamarades, rendez-vous.\" When we didn’t move they came towards us unarmed, led by an officer. Although we are not clean they are disgustingly filthy. I am telling you this but don’t speak of it to anyone. We must not mention it even to other soldiers.’ Gustave Berthier wrote: ‘On Christmas day the Boches made a sign showing they wished to speak to us. They said they didn’t want to shoot... They were tired of making war, they were married like me, they didn’t have any differences with the French but with the English.’\n\nIn sections of the front where German and Belgian troops faced each other in December 1914, there was at least one such instance when a truce was achieved at the request of Belgian soldiers who wished to send letters back to their families, over the German-occupied parts of their own country.\n\nRichard Schirrmann, who was in a German regiment holding a position on the Bernhardstein, one of the mountains of the Vosges, wrote an account of events in December 1915: \"When the Christmas bells sounded in the villages of the Vosges behind the lines... something fantastically unmilitary occurred. German and French troops spontaneously made peace and ceased hostilities; they visited each other through disused trench tunnels, and exchanged wine, cognac and cigarettes for Westphalian black bread, biscuits and ham. This suited them so well that they remained good friends even after Christmas was over.\" He was separated from the French troops by a narrow No Man's Land and described the landscape as: \"Strewn with shattered trees, the ground ploughed up by shellfire, a wilderness of earth, tree-roots and tattered uniforms.\" Military discipline was soon restored, but Schirrmann pondered over the incident, and whether \"thoughtful young people of all countries could be provided with suitable meeting places where they could get to know each other.\" He went on to found the German Youth Hostel Association in 1919.\n\nMany accounts of the truce involve one or more football matches played in no-man's land. This was mentioned in some of the earliest reports, with a letter written by a doctor attached to the Rifle Brigade, published in \"The Times\" on 1 January 1915, reported \"a football match... played between them and us in front of the trench\". A wide range of similar stories have been told over the years, often naming specific units or a precise score. Some accounts of the game bring in elements of fiction by Robert Graves, a British poet and writer (and an officer on the front at the time) who reconstructed the encounter in a story published in 1962; in Graves's version, the score was 3–2 to the Germans.\n\nHowever, the truth of the accounts has been disputed by some historians; in 1984, Malcolm Brown and Shirley Seaton concluded that there were probably attempts to play organised matches which failed due to the state of the ground, but that the contemporary reports were either hearsay or refer to \"kick-about\" matches with \"made-up footballs\" such as a bully-beef tin. Chris Baker, former chairman of The Western Front Association and author of \"The Truce: The Day the War Stopped\" is also sceptical, but says that although there is little hard evidence, the most likely place that an organised match could have taken place was near the village of Messines: \"There are two references to a game being played on the British side, but nothing from the Germans. If somebody one day found a letter from a German soldier who was in that area, then we would have something credible.\" In fact, there is a German reference. Lieutenant Kurt Zehmisch of Germany's 134th Saxons Infantry Regiment said that the English \"brought a soccer ball from their trenches, and pretty soon a lively game ensued. How marvelously wonderful, yet how strange it was\". In 2011, Mike Dash concluded that \"there is plenty of evidence that football was played that Christmas Day—mostly by men of the same nationality, but in at least three or four places between troops from the opposing armies\".\n\nA wide variety of units were reported in contemporary accounts to have taken part in games; Dash listed the 133rd Royal Saxon Regiment pitched against \"Scottish troops\"; the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders against unidentified Germans (with the Scots reported to have won 4–1); the Royal Field Artillery against \"Prussians and Hanovers\" near Ypres; and the Lancashire Fusiliers, based near Le Touquet, with the specific detail of a bully beef ration tin as the \"ball\". One recent writer has identified 29 separate reports of football, though does not give substantive details. Colonel J. E. B. Seely recorded in his diary for Christmas Day that he had been \"Invited to football match between Saxons and English on New Year's Day\", but this does not appear to have taken place.\n\nA separate manifestation of the Christmas truce in December 1914 occurred on the Eastern front, where the first move originated from the Austro-Hungarian commanders, at some uncertain level of the military hierarchy. The Russians responded positively and soldiers eventually met in no man’s land.\n\nThe events of the truce were not reported for a week, in an unofficial press embargo which was eventually broken by \"The New York Times\", published in the then-neutral United States, on 31 December. The British papers quickly followed, printing numerous first-hand accounts from soldiers in the field, taken from letters home to their families, and editorials on \"one of the greatest surprises of a surprising war\". By 8 January pictures had made their way to the press, and both the \"Mirror\" and \"Sketch\" printed front-page photographs of British and German troops mingling and singing between the lines. The tone of the reporting was strongly positive, with the \"Times\" endorsing the \"lack of malice\" felt by both sides and the \"Mirror\" regretting that the \"absurdity and the tragedy\" would begin again.\n\nCoverage in Germany was more muted, with some newspapers strongly criticising those who had taken part, and no pictures published. In France, meanwhile, the greater level of press censorship ensured that the only word that spread of the truce came from soldiers at the front or first-hand accounts told by wounded men in hospitals. The press was eventually forced to respond to the growing rumours by reprinting a government notice that fraternising with the enemy constituted treason, and in early January an official statement on the truce was published, claiming it had happened on restricted sectors of the \"British\" front, and amounted to little more than an exchange of songs which quickly degenerated into shooting.\n\nThe press of then-neutral Italy published a few articles on the events of the truce, usually reporting the articles of the foreign press. On 30 December 1914, \"Corriere della Sera\" printed a report about a fraternization between the opposing trenches. The Florentine newspaper \"La Nazione\" published a first-hand account about a football match played in the no man's land. In Italy, the lack of interest in the truce probably depended on the occurrence of other events, such as the Italian occupation of Vlorë, the debut of the Garibaldi Legion on the front of the Argonne and, finally, the earthquake in Avezzano.\n\nAfter Christmas 1914, sporadic attempts were made at seasonal truces; a German unit attempted to leave their trenches under a flag of truce on Easter Sunday 1915, but were warned off by the British opposite them, and later in the year, in November, a Saxon unit briefly fraternised with a Liverpool battalion. In December 1915, there were explicit orders by the Allied commanders to forestall any repeat of the previous Christmas truce. Individual units were encouraged to mount raids and harass the enemy line, whilst communicating with the enemy was discouraged by artillery barrages along the front line throughout the day. The prohibition was not completely effective, however, and a small number of brief truces occurred.\n\nAn eyewitness account of one truce, by Llewelyn Wyn Griffith, recorded that after a night of exchanging carols, dawn on Christmas Day saw a \"rush of men from both sides... [and] a feverish exchange of souvenirs\" before the men were quickly called back by their officers, with offers to hold a ceasefire for the day and to play a football match. It came to nothing, as the brigade commander threatened repercussions for the lack of discipline, and insisted on a resumption of firing in the afternoon. Nevertheless, another member of Griffith's battalion, Bertie Felstead, later recalled that one man had produced a football, resulting in \"a free-for-all; there could have been 50 on each side\", before they were ordered back. Another unnamed participant reported in a letter home: \"The Germans seem to be very nice chaps, and said they were awfully sick of the war.\" In the evening, according to Robert Keating, another eyewitness, \"The Germans were sending up star lights and singing – they stopped, so we cheered them & we began singing Land of Hope and Glory – Men of Harlech et cetera – we stopped and they cheered us. So we went on till the early hours of the morning.\"\n\nIn an adjacent sector, a short truce to bury the dead between the lines led to official repercussions; a company commander, Sir Iain Colquhoun of the Scots Guards, was court-martialled for defying standing orders to the contrary. While he was found guilty and reprimanded, the punishment was annulled by General Haig and Colquhoun remained in his position; the official leniency may perhaps have been because his wife's uncle was H. H. Asquith, the Prime Minister.\n\nIn the Decembers of 1916 and 1917, German overtures to the British for truces were recorded without any success. In some French sectors, singing and an exchange of thrown gifts was occasionally recorded, though these may simply have reflected a seasonal extension of the live-and-let-live approach common in the trenches.\n\nAt Easter 1915 there were recorded instances of truces between Orthodox troops of opposing sides on the Eastern front. The Bulgarian writer Yordan Yovkov, serving as an officer near the Greek border at the Mesta river, witnessed one such truce. It inspired his short story \"Holy Night\", translated into English in 2013 by Krastu Banaev.\n\nAlthough the popular tendency has been to see the December 1914 Christmas Truces as unique and therefore of romantic rather than political significance, they have also been interpreted as part of the widespread non-co-operation with the war spirit and conduct by serving soldiers. In his book on trench warfare, historian Tony Ashworth describes what he calls the 'live and let live system'. Complicated local truces and agreements not to fire at each other were developed by men along the front throughout the war. These often began with agreement not to attack each other at tea, meal or washing times, and in some places became so developed that whole sections of the front would see few casualties for extended periods of time. This system, Ashworth argues, 'gave soldiers some control over the conditions of their existence.' The December 1914 Christmas Truces then can be seen as not unique, but as the most dramatic example of non-co-operation with the war spirit that included refusal to fight, unofficial truces, mutinies, strikes, and peace protests.\n\n\nA Christmas truce memorial was unveiled in Frelinghien, France, on 11 November 2008. Also on that day, at the spot where, on Christmas Day 1914, their regimental ancestors came out from their trenches to play football, men from the 1st Battalion, The Royal Welch Fusiliers played a football match with the German Battalion 371. The Germans won 2–1.\n\nOn 12 December 2014, a memorial was unveiled at the National Memorial Arboretum in Staffordshire, England by Prince William, Duke of Cambridge and the England national football team manager Roy Hodgson. The \"Football Remembers\" memorial was designed by a ten-year-old schoolboy, Spencer Turner, after a UK-wide competition.\n\nThe Midway Village in Rockford, Illinois has hosted re-enactments of the Christmas Truce.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198261", "title": "Edwin Walker", "text": "Edwin Walker\n\nEdwin Anderson Walker (November 10, 1909 – October 31, 1993) — known as Ted Walker — was a United States Army officer who served in World War II and the Korean War. He became known for his staunch conservative political opinions and was criticized by U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower for promoting a personal political opinion while in uniform. Walker resigned his commission during 1959, but Eisenhower refused to accept his resignation and gave Walker a new command of the 24th Infantry Division in Augsburg, Germany. Walker again resigned his commission during 1961 after being publicly and formally admonished by the Joint Chiefs of Staff for allegedly referring to Eleanor Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman as \"pink\" in print (a charge made by a leftist newspaper named the \"Overseas Weekly\" and never substantiated) and for violating the Hatch Act of 1939 by attempting to influence the votes of his troops. President John F. Kennedy accepted his resignation, making Walker the USA's only general to resign during the 20th century.\n\nDuring early 1962, Walker campaigned for governor of Texas and lost the Democratic primary election to the eventual winner, John Connally. During October 1962, Walker was arrested for promoting riots at the University of Mississippi in protest against admitting a black student, James Meredith, into the all-white university. Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy ordered Walker committed to a mental asylum for a 90-day evaluation in response to his role in the Ole Miss riot of 1962, but psychiatrist Thomas Szasz protested and Walker was released in five days. Attorney Robert Morris convinced a Mississippi grand jury not to indict Walker.\n\nWalker was the target of an assassination attempt in his home on April 10, 1963, but escaped serious injury by the attack when a bullet fired from outside hit a window frame and fragmented. After its investigation into the assassination of John F. Kennedy, the Warren Commission concluded that Walker's assailant had been Lee Harvey Oswald.\n\nWalker was born in Texas in Kerr County in the community of Center Point, in the Texas Hill Country. He graduated during 1927 from the New Mexico Military Institute. He attended the United States Military Academy at West Point, where he graduated in 1931.\n\nWalker's experience was as an artilleryman, but during World War II, he commanded a sub-unit of the Canadian-American First Special Service Force. Walker began command of one of the force's three regiments while still in the United States, and commanded the 3rd Regiment throughout its time in Italy. Their first combat actions began during December 1943, and after battling through the Winter Line, the Force was withdrawn for redeployment to the Anzio beachhead during early 1944. After the fight for Rome during June 1944, the force was withdrawn again to prepare for Operation Dragoon. During August 1944, Walker succeeded Robert T. Frederick as the unit's second, and last, commanding officer. The FSSF landed on the Islands of Hyeres off of the French Riviera during the autumn of 1944, defeating a strong German garrison. Walker commanded the FSSF when it was disbanded during early 1945.\n\nWalker experienced combat during the Korean War, commanding the Third Infantry Division's 7th Infantry Regiment and serving as a senior advisor to the Army of the Republic of Korea.\n\nNext Walker was assigned as commander of the Arkansas Military District in Little Rock, Arkansas. During his years in Arkansas, he implemented an order from President Eisenhower during 1957 to quell civil disturbances during the desegregation of Little Rock's Central High School. Osro Cobb, the US Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas, recalls that Walker \n\n\"made it clear from the outset ... that he would do any and everything necessary to see that the black students attended Central High School as ordered by the federal court... he would arrange protection for them and their families, if necessary, and also supervise their transportation to and from the school for their safety.\"\nDuring that time, Walker repeatedly protested to President Eisenhower that using Federal troops to enforce racial integration was against his conscience. Although he obeyed orders and successfully integrated Little Rock High School, he began listening to segregationist preacher Billy James Hargis and oil tycoon H. L. Hunt, whose anti-communist radio program \"Life Line\" was funded by conservative activist and publisher Dan Smoot. Anti-Communist activists (during 1957-1959) claimed that Communists controlled important parts of the U.S. government and the United Nations; some Soviet spies and agents occupied prominent jobs within the U.S. Federal government, e.g. some of the Silvermaster group.\n\nDuring 1959, Walker met publisher Robert Welch. The latter man had just initiated the John Birch Society to promote his anti-communist opinions, one of which was that President Eisenhower was a communist. This assertion surprised General Walker because it coincided with the segregationist argument of Reverend Billy James Hargis that the Civil Rights Movement was a communist plot.\n\nOn August 4, 1959, Walker submitted his resignation to the U.S. Army. President Eisenhower denied Walker's request for resignation and offered him command over more than 10,000 troops in Augsburg, Germany, specifically the 24th Infantry Division. Walker accepted that command. He began promoting his \"Pro-Blue\" indoctrination program for troops, which included a reading list of materials from Billy James Hargis and the John Birch Society.\n\nThe name \"Pro-Blue,\" said Walker, was intended to suggest \"anti-Red.\" He later wrote that the Pro-Blue program was based upon his experiences in Korea, where he saw \"hastily mobilized and deployed soldiers 'bug out' in the face of Communist units with inferior equipment and often smaller numbers. American soldiers, unprepared for the psychological battlefield, needed to know why they had to beat the enemy as well as the how.\"\n\nPromoting the Pro-Blue program brought General Walker into conflict with the \"Overseas Weekly\", a tabloid newspaper. On April 16, 1961, the \"Weekly\" published an article accusing Walker of indoctrinating his troops with John Birch Society materials.\n\nBecause the John Birch Society regularly claimed that all U.S. presidents from Franklin D. Roosevelt onward had been communists, its opinions were considered too controversial politically for a U.S. general to advocate; military officers were not supposed to engage in politics at all. Walker was quoted by the \"Overseas Weekly\" as saying that Harry S. Truman, Eleanor Roosevelt, and Secretary of State Dean Acheson were \"definitely pink.\" Additionally, a number of soldiers had complained that Walker was instructing them how to vote in the forthcoming American election by using the \"Conservative Voting Index\", which was biased toward the Republican Party. According to Walker, his alleged instruction to soldiers as how to vote would later be disproved. The allegation was based on an article in the division newspaper that provided information as to how to fill out absentee ballots.\n\nThe day after the \"Overseas Weekly\" story was published, Walker was relieved of his command by Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara, while an inquiry was conducted. During October, Walker was reassigned to Hawaii to become assistant chief of staff for training and operations in the Pacific region.\n\nWalker chose to resign from the Army a second time. Because the investigation had not found any evidence of wrongdoing by Walker, the Secretary of the Army chose to admonish the officer, which could not be appealed by the general. The Secretary also stated that Walker would not be permitted to command VIII Corps, as the President had withdrawn his name for promotion. In protest, Walker, preferring political activism to his 30-year military career, did not retire but resigned, thereby forfeiting his pension. This time, President Kennedy accepted his resignation. \nWalker said: \"It will be my purpose now, as a civilian, to attempt to do what I have found it no longer possible to do in uniform.\"\n\nDuring December 1961, as a civilian, Walker began a career of political speeches along with Hargis. Walker enjoyed enthusiastic crowds all over the United States. His message of anti-communism was popular. He also promoted the McCarthyist belief that communists were \"inside\" the United States government. Walker's home base was Dallas, Texas, considered a conservative city . Walker received considerable assistance from the citizens of Dallas, in particular from oil billionaire, publisher and radio host H. L. Hunt, who assisted Walker's first election campaign for governor of Texas. A Newsweek cover proclaimed General Walker the public face of the anti-communist conservative movement.\n\nDuring February 1962, Walker began the campaign, but finished last among six candidates in a Democratic primary election. It was won in a runoff election by John B. Connally, Jr., the choice of Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson. Other contenders were the Governor Price Daniel, Highway Commissioner Marshall Formby of Plainview, Attorney General of Texas Will Wilson, and Houston lawyer Don Yarborough, the favorite of liberals and organized labor. Due to disfranchisement of minorities in Texas since the beginning of the century, the Democratic Party primaries were the only strongly competitive political contests in the state at that time. In the course of his campaign, Walker assaulted journalist Thomas V. Kelly (father of New York Times editor Michael Kelly), who asked him for a response to praise of Walker made by American Nazi Party leader George Lincoln Rockwell; Walker's response was to strike Kelly in the left eye. This assault was widely reported in press headlines.\n\nThough Walker had obeyed orders in achieving desegregation of Central High School in Little Rock, he acted privately in organizing protests during September 1962 against the enrollment of James Meredith, an African-American veteran, at the all-caucasian University of Mississippi at Oxford, Mississippi.\n\nOn September 26, 1962, Walker broadcast this message by several radio stations:\n\nMississippi: It is time to move. We have talked, listened and been pushed around far too much by the anti-Christ Supreme Court! Rise...to a stand beside Governor Ross Barnett at Jackson, Mississippi! Now is the time to be heard! Thousands strong from every State in the Union! Rally to the cause of freedom! The Battle Cry of the Republic! Barnett yes! Castro no! Bring your flag, your tent and your skillet. It's now or never! The time is when the President of the United States commits or uses any troops, Federal or State, in Mississippi! The last time in such a situation I was on the wrong side. That was in Little Rock, Arkansas in 1957-1958. This time -- out of uniform -- I am on the right side! I will be there! \nOn September 29, 1962, he issued a televised statement:\n\nThis is Edwin A. Walker. I am in Mississippi beside Governor Ross Barnett. I call for a national protest against the conspiracy from within. Rally to the cause of freedom in righteous indignation, violent vocal protest, and bitter silence under the flag of Mississippi at the use of Federal troops. This today is a disgrace to the nation in 'dire peril,' a disgrace beyond the capacity of anyone except its enemies. This is the conspiracy of the crucifixion by anti-Christ conspirators of the Supreme Court in their denial of prayer and their betrayal of a nation.\nWhite segregationists from around the state joined students and locals in a violent, 15-hour riot on the campus on September 30, in which two people were killed execution style, hundreds were wounded, and six federal marshals were shot. Walker was arrested for four federal charges, including sedition and insurrection against the United States. He was temporarily detained in a mental institution on orders from Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy. Kennedy demanded that Walker receive a 90-day psychiatric examination.\n\nThe attorney general's decision was challenged by noted psychiatrist Thomas Szasz, who insisted that psychiatry must never become used for political rivalry. The American Civil Liberties Union joined Szasz in a protest against the attorney general, completing this coalition of liberal and conservative leaders. The attorney general had to relent, and Walker spent only five days in the asylum.\n\nWalker posted bond and returned home to Dallas, where he was greeted by a crowd of some two hundred devotees. After a federal grand jury adjourned during January 1963 without indicting him, the charges were dismissed. Because the dismissal of the charges was without prejudice, the charges could have been reinstated within five years.\n\nDuring February 1963, Walker joined Billy Hargis in an anti-communist tour named \"Operation Midnight Ride\". In a speech Walker made on March 5, reported in the \"Dallas Times Herald\", he called on the United States military to \"liquidate the [communist] scourge that has descended upon the island of Cuba.\" Seven days later, Lee Harvey Oswald ordered by mail a Carcano rifle, using the alias \"A. Hidell.\"\n\nAccording to the Warren Commission, Oswald began to put Walker under surveillance, photographing the general's Dallas home on the weekend of March 9–10. Oswald's friend, 51-year-old Russian émigré and petroleum geologist George de Mohrenschildt, would later tell the Warren Commission that he \"knew that Oswald disliked General Walker\".\n\nOn April 10, 1963, as Walker was sitting at a desk in his dining room, a bullet struck the wooden frame of his dining room window. Walker was injured in the forearm by fragments. Marina Oswald later testified that her husband told her that he traveled by bus to General Walker's house and shot at Walker with his rifle. Marina said that Oswald considered Walker to be the leader of a \"fascist organization\".\n\nBefore the Kennedy assassination, the Dallas police did not have any suspects for the Walker shooting, but Oswald's involvement was suspected within hours of his arrest after the assassination. A note Oswald left for Marina on the night of the attempt, telling her what to do if he did not return, was not found until ten days after the Kennedy assassination. The bullet was too badly damaged to provide conclusive ballistics tests, but neutron activation tests later determined that it was \"extremely likely\" the bullet was a Carcano bullet manufactured by the Western Cartridge Company, the same ammunition used in the Kennedy assassination.\n\nPolice Detective D. E. McElroy commented, \"Whoever shot at the general was playing for keeps. The sniper wasn't trying to scare him. He was shooting to kill.\" Marina Oswald stated later that she had seen Oswald burn most of his plans in the bathtub, though she hid the note he left her in a cookbook, with the intention of bringing it to the police should Oswald again attempt to kill Walker or anyone else. Marina later quoted her husband as saying, \"Well, what would you say if somebody got rid of Hitler at the right time? So if you don't know about General Walker, how can you speak up on his behalf?\"\n\nOswald later wrote to Arnold Johnson of the Communist Party USA that on the evening of October 23, 1963, he had attended an \"ultra right\" meeting directed by Walker.\n\nOn November 29, 1963, one week following the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, an article appeared in a German newspaper,\"Deutsche Soldaten-Zeitung\" that accused reputed JFK assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald, of having committed the attack on Walker. Oswald's widow, Marina Oswald was asked about the report during a two-week-long detention for interrogation by federal investigators, and she said she believed the report was true. There is some question among skeptics of the Warren Commission's investigation into the JFK assassination, about how a European newspaper with no significant presence in the United States was able to receive information about a rather obscure crime that occurred on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean. By the time the connection between Oswald and Walker came to light, however, Lee Harvey Oswald had died while in police custody, so no charges were ever filed for the crime.\n\nWalker organized a verbal attack in Dallas, Texas, on Adlai Stevenson, US Ambassador to the United Nations, on \"UN Day,\" October 24, 1963. During mid-October 1963, Walker rented the same Dallas Memorial Auditorium in which Stevenson would speak. He advertised his opposing event as \"US Day\" and he invited members of the John Birch Society, the National Indignation Convention, the Minutemen and other organizations opposed to communism and the United Nations.\n\nOn the night before Stevenson's speech, Walker had his \"US Day\" rally and instructed his audience to \"buy all the tickets\" they could afford to the Stevenson speech, and to fill the auditorium. Walker instructed his audience to heckle Stevenson, bring Halloween noisemakers, and recite their own speeches in the hallways in order to disrupt Stevenson's speech in any way that they could.\n\nWalker also told his devotees to fix a banner to the ceiling, to be unfurled at the appropriate moment. It was to be printed with \"US out of UN!,\" and on the other side, \"UN out of US!\" Walker did not attend Stevenson's speech, nor did he take credit for the orchestration. The audience was so disruptive that Stevenson quit speaking before finishing his presentation and went quickly out to his limousine. On his way, a protester spat at him and one struck him in the head with her placard. Both were arrested. Walker was not charged, although his role was well known at the time.\n\nThe verbal attacks on United Nations Ambassador Adlai Stevenson on October 24, 1963 were traced to plans organized by Edwin Walker and his devotees among the John Birch Society, according to the November issue of the magazine \"Texas Observer\". One month later, the black-bordered advertisement and the \"Wanted for Treason: JFK\" handbills of November 22, 1963, appeared on the streets of Dallas. They were traced to Edwin Walker and his associate Robert Surrey by the Warren Commission. After President Kennedy's assassination, Walker wrote and spoke publicly about his belief that there were two assassins at the \"April Crime\" - Oswald and another person that was never found.\n\nImmediately after the Warren Commission released their report during September 1964, Walker described it as a \"farcical whitewash\". Although he accepted their finding that it was Oswald who shot at him the previous year, Walker claimed that the Commission was attempting to hide \"some sort of conspiracy\" that included an association between Jack Ruby and Oswald.\n\nAngered by negative publicity, Walker began to file libel lawsuits against various media outlets. One suit responded to negative coverage of his role in the riot at the University of Mississippi protesting Meredith's admission. The Associated Press reported that Walker had \"led a charge of students against federal marshals\" and that he had \"assumed command of the crowd.\" Several newspapers were named in the lawsuit. If Walker and his lawyers were successful, he could have won tens of millions of dollars.\n\nA Texas trial court during 1964 found the statements false and defamatory.\nBy that time, Walker and his lawyers had already won more than $3 million in lawsuits.\n\nThe Associated Press appealed the decision, as \"Associated Press v. Walker\", eventually to the United States Supreme Court. During 1967, the Supreme Court ruled against Walker, finding that, although the statements may have been false, the Associated Press was not guilty of reckless disregard in their reporting about Walker. The Court, which had previously said that public \"officials\" could not recover damages unless they could prove malice, extended this to public \"figures\" as well.\n\nBy resigning instead of retiring, Walker was ineligible for an army pension. He made statements at the time to the \"Dallas Morning News\" that he had \"refused\" his pension. However, he had made several previous requests for his pension dating back to 1973. The army restored his pension rights during 1982.\n\nWalker, then 66, was arrested on June 23, 1976, for public lewdness in a restroom at a Dallas park. He was accused of fondling and propositioning a male undercover police officer. He was arrested again in Dallas for public lewdness on March 16, 1977. He pleaded Nolo contendere (no contest) to one of the two misdemeanor charges, was given a suspended and a 30-day jail sentence and fined $1,000.\n\nWalker died of lung cancer at his home in Dallas during 1993, one week and three days before his 84th birthday. He was never married and did not have any children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50406244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50406244", "title": "Global news flow", "text": "Global news flow\n\nGlobal news flow (also referred to as international news flow) is a field of study that deals with the news coverage of events in foreign countries. It describes and explains the flow of news from one country to another.\n\nStudies on global news flow typically attempt to understand why certain countries are more newsworthy than others.. Along the years it has been found that the economic power of countries plays a particularly crucial role in their news prominence as well as the presence of international news agencies. Thus, the US has been found to be very prominent in news mentions around the world (18%), followed by China, Western European and Middle Eastern countries (about 3-5% each).\n\nThe unequal representation of the world and the under-representation of developing countries have been already of a great concern at least since the 1950s, since they influence the way people perceive the world and the image of countries. This problem was later addressed in the MacBride report, and his set of recommendations for a New World Information and Communication Order. The unequal representation of the world has been also linked to the World System Theory, and the unequal economic structure of the world.\n\nRecent empirical studies show that among online news websites and news aggregators the unequal representation of the world has been perpetuated and even further intensified. Economically powerful countries, as well as their opponent countries (mainly in the Middle East and Asia) get the most news coverage around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "22771741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22771741", "title": "Green shoots", "text": "Green shoots\n\nGreen shoots is a term used colloquially and propagandistically to indicate signs of economic recovery during an economic downturn. It was first used in this sense by Norman Lamont, the then Chancellor of the Exchequer of the United Kingdom, during the 1991 Recession. At the time, Chancellor Lamont was criticized for \"insensitivity\". The phrase was used again by Baroness Vadera, former Business Minister of the UK in January, 2009 to refer to signs of economic recovery during the late-2000s recession, again to criticism from the media and opposition politicians. The U.S. media started to use the phrase to describe domestic economic conditions in February 2009 when in New York Times quoted Bruce Kasman, chief economist at JPMorgan Chase as saying, \"It's too early to get excited, but I think there are a couple of green shoots that say we're not going down as heavily in the first quarter [of 2009] as we were in the fourth quarter [of 2008].\" The Federal Reserve Chairman, Ben Bernanke, made the first public use of the phrase by a Fed official in a March 15, 2009 interview with CBS 60 Minutes. Since February and March 2009, it has been used increasingly in the media and by a number of commentators to refer to positive economic data and statistics during the late-2000s (decade) recession.\n\n"}
{"id": "51086566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51086566", "title": "Hugh Jackman: in Concert", "text": "Hugh Jackman: in Concert\n\nHugh Jackman: in Concert is a music concert by Australian actor, musician and dancer Hugh Jackman.\n\nJackman performs Broadway and Hollywood musical numbers backed by a 17-piece orchestra and directed by Warren Carlyle.\n\n\n“... at every turn, Jackman seems to make it abundantly clear that in this moment — whether he’s riffing on the golden days of the movie musical, or feeling his way through a deeply memorable rendition of Carousel’s ‘Soliloquy,’ or reprising lesser-known Allen songs such as ‘Tenterfield Saddler’ or ‘Once Before I Go’ — there is nowhere else he would rather be. And no one else for whom he would rather be doing it. In the face of such open-hearted generosity, there’s probably not a single person in his audience who doesn’t know exactly how he feels.”\n— CANOE\n\n“Hugh Jackman in Concert doesn’t feel like a career move – it feels like fun, the work of a talented performer unexpectedly given the chance to do what he loves just for the hell of it. But where another star might have let that opportunity sour into a statement of ego, Jackman lets the audience share in his passion and his fun. It’s hard to imagine him ever having a better role.”\n— THE GLOBE AND MAIL\n"}
{"id": "54821895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54821895", "title": "Iqbal F. Qadir", "text": "Iqbal F. Qadir\n\nVice-Admiral Iqbal Fazl Quadir (Urdu:اقبال فضل قادر) , is a retired three-star rank admiral in the Pakistan Navy, former diplomat, and a defence analyst. He is renowned for his participation in second war with India when he was part of the flotilla that attacked the radar station in Dwarka, India.\n\nHaving joined the Pakistan Navy in 1947, he progressed well in the Navy and was trained in signals in Britannia Royal Naval College in England before returning to Pakistan in 1954 where he served in the PNS \"Shamsher\" as Lieutenant. \n\nIn 1965, Commander Iqbal F. Quadir was among the commanding officer who were chosen to be a part of the flotilla led under Cdre. S.M. Anwar to attacked the radar station in Dwarka, India, where he commanded the PNS \"Alamgir\". Cdr. Quadir was in charge of the signals eventually helping to identify the targets for flotilla to launch the attack.\n\nAccording to Cdr. Quadir, the Indian Navy's reconnaissance plane had flown over his ship and observed flight path of the plane in the radar, as it flown over his ship, \"Babur\" and \"Badr\" but was unable to detect due to clouds covering the area. Upon returning to Pakistan, he was decorated with the gallantry award. \n\nIn 1971, Cdr. Quadir was stationed in East, and was taken as war prisoner by the Indian Army and was repatriated back to Pakistan in 1974. Upon returning to Pakistan, he continued to served in the Navy and eventually promoted at the commanding ranks in the Navy. In 1970s, Capt. Quadir served in the Navy NHQ as Chief of Staff (COS) for Commander of Pakistan Fleet (COMPAK). In 1978, Rear-Admiral Quadir was appointed as Commander of Karachi (COMKAR). In 1980, he was promoted to three-star rank, Vice-Admiral, in the Pakistan Navy and tenured as the Vice-Chief of Naval Staff under Adm. Karamat Rahman Niazi, the chief of naval staff. \n\nIn 1983, Vice-Admiral Quadir was superseded by junior Rear-Admiral T.K. Khan for the four-star rank promotion, since the Rear-Admiral Khan had been known to be close to President Zia and had experience in military administration in civil affairs from the East Pakistan, that may have been a factor for his appointment to the four-star appointment. After his appointment was announced, Rear-Admiral Tariq Kamal Khan was appointed as four-star rank admiral in the Navy.\n\nAfter his seeking retirement in 1983, Quadir was appointed as ambassador and serve on various countries as a diplomat. He has been a prolific contributor in Defence Journal. Since 2015, he has appeared in television news media to euologize the events in 1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "39074677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39074677", "title": "Karabakh movement", "text": "Karabakh movement\n\nThe Karabakh movement (, also the Artsakh Movement Արցախյան շարժում) was a mass nationalist movement in Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh from 1988 to 1992 that advocated for the transfer of the mainly Armenian-populated Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast of neighboring Azerbaijan to the jurisdiction of Armenia.\n\nInitially, the movement was entirely devoid of any anti-Soviet sentiment and did not call for independence of Armenia. The Karabakh Committee, a group of intellectuals, led the movement from 1988 to 1989. It transformed into the Pan-Armenian National Movement (HHSh) by 1989 and won majority in the 1990 parliamentary election. In 1991, both Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh declared independence. The intense fighting known as the Nagorno-Karabakh War turned into a full-scale war by 1992.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55588949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55588949", "title": "Latvian Operation of the NKVD", "text": "Latvian Operation of the NKVD\n\nThe so-called Latvian Operation () of the People's Commissariat for Internal Affairs (NKVD) was a mass arrest and execution of persons of Latvian origin in the Soviet Union during the period of Great Purge (1937–1938).\n\nMore than 500 Latvian peasant colonies originated from the 19th century after the abolition of serfdom near St. Petersburg, Novgorod and in Siberia. As the front line of Courland was approaching in the First World War, extensive forced evacuations were carried out, so that the number of Latvians living in Russia doubled to up to 500,000 people. Many of the Latvian Riflemen were the early supporters of the Bolsheviks in 1917. With the end of the World War and the Russian Civil War, many of the refugees were able to return to an independent Latvia. The Riga peace treaty explicitly foresaw the departure of former Latvian riflemen and refugees. According to the 1926 census, about 150,000 Latvians lived in the Soviet Union. They cultivated a lively cultural life with the schools, newspapers and theaters. Since the 1905 Revolution, there has been a strong Latvian faction in the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party. Persons of Latvian descent temporarily held the high positions in the State apparatus of Soviet Russia. Of 70 Commissioners of the Cheka were in the year 1918 38 were of Latvian origin. However, with the increasing Russification of the State organs, members of non-Russian minorities were largely ousted from the management positions. In the party leadership of Josef Stalin, Latvia was regarded as a so-called \"enemy nation\" and Latvians were generally regarded as counter-revolutionary and suspicious. The resistance of peasant colonists to the forced collectivization at the end of the 1920s seemed to confirm to this image. Through targeted deportations in the Gulag, these colonies were eliminated by 1933. From this time, a rigorous \"purge\" of the party and state apparatus of non-Russians took place. The Latvian Communist Party was dissolved in 1936, its members persecuted and murdered as \"nationalists\" and \"people's enemies\". One aspect of Stalin's Great Purge was state-directed xenophobia. In July 1937 the closure of the publishing house and cultural association \"Prometejs\" and the arrest of its employees took place. The Red Latvian Riflemen were removed from the history and school books and their veteran associations were dissolved.\n\nOn November 23, 1937, Nikolai Yezhov ordered the NKVD services to pool all the information gathered about Latvians in cultural and political life, the military and other institutions to be able to arrest them \"just as during the Polish operation\". On 30 November, the Order No. 49990 was the mass arrest of ethnic Latvians throughout the Soviet Union. The lawsuits were streamlined by forms with pre-printed accusations and confessions, which then condemned judicial victims to criminal work or shooting. Through torture, the NKVD constructed the existence of a Latvian espionage circle, which allegedly belonged to all Latvian officials from the Politburo to the school directors. The last Latvian Chekists were now also executed by their colleagues. Due to the large number of detainees, despite the so-called album proceedings, the courts were unable to impose convictions quickly enough. Therefore, the finish date of the action was extended until August 1938. In October 1938, special Troikas were then set up to work out the backlog of unedited cases. When the successor of Yezhov, Lavrenty Beria issued the command No. 00762 on November 26, 1938, the Latvian operation ended with the conclusion of the Great Purge. The liquidation of the Latvian party officials gave the Soviet authorities certain difficulties in establishing a party and administrative apparatus in the occupation of Latvia 1940.\n\nIn particular, 22,369 convictions of Latvians were known, of which 16,573 or 74% were shot. Various estimates are based on 73,000 Latvian casualties. Exact victim numbers are also not available because many other people were murdered under the pretext of \"Latvians\". Women who were sent to the gulag because of a marriage with the ethnic enemies and their children who came to orphanages were not included in the statistics. The operation led to the abandonment of their own culture among the remaining Latvians, so descendants of Latvian colonists barely speak Latvian today. A rehabilitation of the victims took place under Khrushchev. Information about the specific death and date could only be obtained after the end of the communist rule after 1990. The perpetrators and performers of the action, often known by name, have never been held accountable. Larger groups of victims were shot at the practice places Butovo and Kommunarka near Moscow, Levaschovo near Leningrad or Kurapaty near Minsk. However, the tortures and murders were carried out throughout the territory of the State.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29724166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29724166", "title": "List of events held in the Arena Stožice", "text": "List of events held in the Arena Stožice\n\nThis is the complete list of all entertainment events held, cancelled and announced to be held in the Arena Stožice.\n"}
{"id": "38024913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38024913", "title": "Lone Tree Monument", "text": "Lone Tree Monument\n\nThe Lone Tree Monument is on the site once occupied by a large tree in central Nebraska.\nNative Americans held council under it,\nearly pioneers used it as a landmark, and it was the first official name of the county seat of Merrick county.\nIt is marked as a historical location by the Nebraska State Historical Society.\n\nLone Tree was a solitary cottonwood tree, which stood on the north side of the Platte River about three miles southwest of where Central City is located. The trunk of the tree was about in circumference at the base and was about tall. It was a landmark, it was claimed, which could be seen for across the prairie by early travelers.\n\nNative Americans knew the tree and named it (though the name is not known) before the pioneers came. Legend has it that Native American chiefs held council under its shade.\n\nIt was a landmark for pioneers as early as 1833. In 1858, it was selected by Western Stage Co. as the site for the Lone Tree Station. From 1860 to 1861, the Western Stage Company station was built and operating. The huge cottonwood tree marked its location, which was operated by Mary Hilton from 1860 to 1861.\n\nIn 1858, the Nebraska Territorial Legislature established Merrick County and designated \"Elvira\" as its mythical county seat located under Lone Tree near present day Central City.\n\nIn 1865, a great storm blew the tree over. The tree had died in 1863 and this was thought the consequence of two factors. First, as pioneers passed along the Overland Trail and Mormon Trail, they made carvings in its bark, thereby gradually destroying it. Second, pioneers often built campfires at the base of the tree, which may have further weakened it. Part of its trunk was taken to Lone Tree station (which later became Central City) and placed on the depot platform. Over time, fragments of it were carried away by tourists until it disappeared.\n\nIn 1866, the mythical Merrick county seat of Elvira was given an actual location in a town called \"Lone Tree,\" which, in 1875, would be renamed \"Central City.\"\n\nAlthough the original Lone Tree had long disappeared, the people of Merrick county had not forgotten its historical significance. In 1911, they erected a granite monument. Thirty years later, another cottonwood tree was planted at the original tree's location next to the granite monument. In 1911, there were also two dedications of the monument, one on August 9, 1911 and a second rededication of it on July 3, 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "26505885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26505885", "title": "Mesh conference", "text": "Mesh conference\n\nmesh conference is a Web 2.0 conference hosted in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It is held annually in May, at the MaRS Centre in downtown Toronto. The conference, founded in 2006, has featured several prominent keynote speakers, including Om Malik (2006), Michael Arrington (2007), Michael Geist (2006, 2008), and David Miller (2009).\n\n"}
{"id": "4602640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4602640", "title": "Mozart!", "text": "Mozart!\n\nMozart! is an Austrian musical, originally written in German. The original book and lyrics were written by Michael Kunze and the music and arrangements were composed by Sylvester Levay. The show is a new imagining of the struggles of the famous composer.\n\nThe original production was directed by the opera director Harry Kupfer. It premiered on October 2, 1999, in the Theater an der Wien, and the final performance was on 7 May 2001. It ran for 419 performances, showing to approximately 420,000 patrons.\n\nThe production appealed especially to younger Viennese audiences. Subsequent productions have been mounted in:\n\n\nThe Vienna and Budapest productions released cast albums, as well as the Japanese and Korean productions. In addition to that, the Korean production released two DVDs with a different cast on each. A DVD and a cast album have been released based on the 2015 Vienna production.\n"}
{"id": "11101081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11101081", "title": "Nat Tate: An American Artist 1928–1960", "text": "Nat Tate: An American Artist 1928–1960\n\nNat Tate: An American Artist 1928–1960 is a 1998 novel, presented as a biography, by the Scottish writer William Boyd. Nat Tate was an imaginary person, invented by Boyd and created as \"an abstract expressionist who destroyed '99%' of his work and leapt to his death from the Staten Island ferry. His body was never found.\" At the time of the novel's launch, Boyd went some way to encourage the belief that Tate had really existed.\n\nBoyd published the book as a hoax, presented as a real biography. Gore Vidal, John Richardson (Picasso's biographer), Karen Wright (then editor of the influential \"Modern Painters\" magazine) and David Bowie (a board member of \"Modern Painters\" and co-director with Karen Wright of 21 Publishing, which published the book) were all participants in the hoax. \"Nat Tate\" is a combination of the names of two London art galleries, the National Gallery and the Tate Gallery. Boyd and his conspirators set about convincing the New York glitterati (social elites) that the reputation of this influential abstract expressionist needed to be re-evaluated.\n\nBowie held a launch party on April Fool's Day eve, 1998, and read extracts from the book, while Richardson talked about Tate's friendships with both Picasso and Braque.\n\nAbout a week later, journalist David Lister, who was at the New York launch, reported in \"The Independent\" of London that \"some of the biggest names in the art world have been the victims of a literary hoax\", and the story was picked up by other newspapers, including \"The New York Times\". He said that no one he spoke to claimed to know Tate well, but no one claimed not to have heard of him. He said he sniffed something fishy, since he appeared to be the only person in the room who had never heard of Tate. His suspicions were confirmed when he discovered that none of the galleries mentioned in the book actually existed. By January 2016, Lister had become \"The Independent\"s Arts Editor.\n\nIn reality, it appears that few were fooled and most of the big names in the arts world (including artists, collectors, art historian, art dealers, New York based writers like Paul Auster, and editors of literary journals) quickly realized that Nat Tate was a complete fake and that they had been the victims of an elaborate setup. Some of the paintings featured in the book were reportedly painted by Boyd and the hoax was made more believable by Gore Vidal's endorsement on the book's dust cover. Also, the photographs of Nat Tate that feature in the 'biography' are of unknown people from Boyd's own photographic collection.\n\nKaren Wright, one of Bowie's co-directors at 21 Publishing, said the hoax was not meant to be malicious: \"Part of it was, we were very amused that people kept saying 'Yes, I've heard of him.' There is a willingness not to appear foolish. Critics are too proud for that.\" Boyd, the main perpetrator of the hoax, agreed, saying \"the doubts were meant to set in very quickly.\"\n\nAccording to his inventor's fictitious biography, Nathwell \"Nat\" Tate was born \"probably\" in Union Beach, New Jersey on March 7, 1928. His father, for whom he was named, deserted the family before Tate's birth. From the age of 3, Tate, an only child, lived in Peconic, Long Island, New York, with his mother Mary, who worked as a kitchen maid for a wealthy family. Mary was killed in a traffic accident in February, 1936, shortly before Tate's eighth birthday, and Tate was subsequently adopted by the family with whom he and his mother had been living.\n\nAlways interested in painting and drawing, Tate studied painting with Hans Hofmann in Provincetown, Massachusetts from 1947 until 1950, and began showing his work in exhibitions of abstract art in New York City in 1952. His adoptive family supported Tate, paying for his lessons and also buying much of his artwork. Tate became a respected, albeit minor, figure in the New York art scene, appreciated by his peers, if somewhat obscure to the general public. A recurring motif in his works was the representation of bridges, which was partly inspired by his readings of the works of Hart Crane.\n\nAn alcoholic, Tate became increasingly irrational towards the end of the decade. After a trip to Europe in 1959, he became overwhelmed by the quality of art he saw there (especially that of Georges Braque, whom Tate briefly visited). On his return to America, Tate insisted on borrowing or buying back his paintings from their owners, so he could \"improve\" them. Apparently unhappy with his work, he then simply destroyed all of the paintings he reacquired—about 99% of his collected works, according to one estimate. Emulating the death of Hart Crane, Tate committed suicide on January 12, 1960, by jumping off the Staten Island ferry.\n\nWilliam Boyd included Nat Tate as a minor character in his novel \"Any Human Heart\", and in its TV adaptation.\n\nIn 2011, a painting by \"Nat Tate\" entitled \"Bridge no. 114\" was auctioned at Sotheby's in London. The winning bid for the painting (which was actually by William Boyd) was £7,250, well above the expected price, with the purchaser later revealed to be English television personality Anthony McPartlin. The money was given to the Artists' General Benevolent Institution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24804722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24804722", "title": "National Panorama Competition (UK)", "text": "National Panorama Competition (UK)\n\nThe UK National Panorama Competition, a Saturday evening event that immediately precedes the Notting Hill Carnival, is a major showcase for Trinidad and Tobago Steel Pan, or (Steel Band), music. Held at Emslie Horniman's Pleasance park in the London Borough of Kensington and Chelsea it typically involves approximately 1,000 performers, and attracts almost 5,000 spectators. Steel Bands from around the UK prepare a music performance, arranged to last for up to 10 minutes, and compete for the \"Panorama Championship\".\n\nEbony Steel Band Trust has dominated this competition over the years winning nineteen times; although the crown has been passed on to Mangrove Steel Orchestra for 2011\n\nFrom 2007-2009 the event was held at London's Hyde Park, and broadcast by BBC radio.\n\n"}
{"id": "9036558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9036558", "title": "Night of the Proms", "text": "Night of the Proms\n\nNight of the Proms is a series of concerts held annually in Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Luxembourg, Denmark, Poland and the United States. Regularly there are also shows in France, Spain, Austria, Switzerland and Sweden. The concerts consist of pop music and popular classical music (often combined) and various well-known musicians and groups usually participate (see below).\n\nNight of the Proms is the biggest annually organised indoor event in Europe.\n\nNight of the Proms is based on the Last Night of the Proms, the last concert of the BBC Proms, a series of seventy or so classical concerts held yearly in the Royal Albert Hall in London, but it is organised independently. Though its inclusion of large portions of pop music does not match its British counterpart and originator, it did share certain elements for a time, such as the tradition of ending the performance with the British patriotic song Land of Hope and Glory. The closing song has varied every year since 2011.\n\nNight of the Proms was created by two Belgian students, Jan Vereecke and Jan Van Esbroeck in 1985. The first NotP took place at the Antwerp Sportpaleis in Belgium on 19 October 1985. Nowadays the event is organized by PSE Belgium (Promotion for Special Events), still managed by Vereecke and Van Esbroeck. PSE co-operates with local promoters (Mojo in the Netherlands, Dirk Hohmeyer in Germany, Niels Estrup in Scandinavia, Music Events Poland, etc.).\n\nMusicians who have participated in The Night of the Proms:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27009990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27009990", "title": "Opéra de Nice", "text": "Opéra de Nice\n\nThe Opéra de Nice is the principal opera venue in Nice, France.\n\nIt offers three types of performances: operas, ballets and classical concerts ; and houses the Ballet Nice Méditerrannée and the Nice Philharmonic Orchestra.\n\nThe “petit théâtre en bois” (wooden theatre) was first created in 1776 by Marquess Alli-Maccarani. Sold in 1787 to a group of gentry, it reopened in 1790 under the name “Théâtre Royal”.\n\nIn 1826, the city of Nice, encouraged by King Charles Félix, bought it from its owners and had it demolished and rebuilt. It was inaugurated in 1828 with Giovanni Pacini's \"Il Barone di Bolsheim\".\n\nIn 1856, a great ball was organized in the honour of King Victor Emmanuel II.\n\nIn 1860, Napoleon III was invited to attend an evening at the Théâtre Royal. For this special occasion, Johann Strauss led the orchestra. The same year, the theatre became the “Théâtre Impérial”. In 1864, Napoleon III returned, accompanied by Tsar Alexander II of Russia. In 1868, Louis II, Duke of Bavaria attended a performance of \"Cendrillon\". The Théâtre Royal was renamed “Théâtre Municipal” in 1870.\n\nOn Wednesday, March 23rd 1881, as the opera \"Lucia di Lammermoor\" began, a gas leak started a huge fire. The fire was controlled the next day but there was nothing left of the theatre. Three siblings of Marjory Kennedy-Fraser died in the fire: Lizzie, Kate and James (soprano, contralto and baritone respectively).\nThe city of Nice immediately decided to rebuild another theatre on the same site. It was designed by architect François Aune with the apparent approval of Charles Garnier, the architect of the Paris Opera. On February 7th 1885, the Théâtre Municipal re-opened with Verdi’s \"Aida\". Over the following years it hosted the French stage premieres of operas such as \"A Life for the Tsar\", \"Eugene Onegin\", \"La Gioconda\", \"Manon Lescaut\", \"Marie-Magdeleine\", \"Katerina Ismailova\" and \"Elegy for Young Lovers\". Artistic directors included Edoardo Sonzogno (1887-88), Raoul Gunsbourg (1889-91) and Ferdinand Aymé (1950-82). Musical directors included Alexandre Luigini (1888-89 and 1897-98), Albert Wolff (1930-32 and 1934-37), Antonio de Almeida (1976-78) and Pierre Dervaux (1978-82).\n\nIn 1902, it was named Opéra de Nice and is today referred to as Opéra Nice Côte d’Azur.\n\nWith the support of the Médecin family of Nice, the house flourished, attracting major singers and directors in opera, but despite the efforts of Jean-Albert Cartier from 1994-1997, the importance of the house declined.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2009 the director-general was the Belgian producer Paul-Émile Fourny. He was succeeded by Jacques Hédouin, with a policy of closer working with the Opéra de Monte-Carlo, as well as closer collaboration with the two regional orchestras, the Orchestre Philharmonique de Nice and the Orchestre régional de Cannes-Provence-Alpes-Côte-d’Azur.\n\nIn November 2012, Marc Adam became the new artistic director of the opera. The same month tenor Jonas Kaufmann performed there. Adam departed in 2015 to be replaced by Eric Chevalier.\n\nThe Diacosmie is the workshop of the Opéra de Nice, where everything from costumes to sets is created. The building also houses rehearsal rooms for the Nice Philharmonic Orchestra and the Ballet Nice Méditerrannée.\n"}
{"id": "44744604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44744604", "title": "Piece of My Heart: The Bert Berns Story", "text": "Piece of My Heart: The Bert Berns Story\n\nPiece of My Heart: The Bert Berns Story is a jukebox musical with a book by Daniel Goldfarb and music and lyrics by Bert Berns. Based on the life and music of songwriter and record producer Bert Berns, the musical made its world premiere Off Broadway at the Pershing Square Signature Center on July 21, 2014.\n\nBert Berns is a vastly influential figure in the history of American music, yet his extraordinary impact went widely unknown. \"Rolling Stone\" called Berns \"one of the great untold stories of rock and roll.\" He is responsible for some of the most enduring classics of sixties pop and R&B, and has been credited with bringing Latin rhythms into rock and roll and the creation of New York Uptown Soul. Berns died in 1967 at the young age of 38 due to a rheumatic heart condition, and his children Brett Berns and Cassandra Berns conceived of the musical as part of a concerted effort to champion his legacy. With his autobiographical body of work and dramatic life story, the musical's creators used Berns' canon to tell his story through his own songs.\n\n\"Piece of My Heart\" follows the story of Berns' rise in the music business, and his daughter's search for the father she never knew. Berns died from heart failure when his daughter was an infant, and she comes to know him through his music over the course of the play.\n\nMusic and lyrics were written by Bert Berns, either alone or with a variety of co-writers. The songs range from Berns' greatest hits (\"Twist and Shout,\" \"Piece of My Heart,\" \"Tell Him,\" \"Hang On Sloopy\", \"Cry Baby,\" \"I Want Candy,\" \"Cry To Me,\" \"Here Comes the Night,\" \"Everybody Needs Somebody to Love\") to some of his more obscure work (\"Show Me Your Monkey,\" \"Let the Water Run Down,\" \"Heart Be Still\").\n\n\"Piece of My Heart\" debuted Off-Broadway at the Irene Diamond Stage at The Pershing Square Signature Center during the summer of 2014. The production received a positive review from The New York Times and the limited run was extended by popular demand. Directed and choreographed by Denis Jones, it starred Zak Resnick as Bert Berns alongside Broadway veterans Linda Hart, De'Adre Aziza, Leslie Kritzer, Joseph Siravo and Derrick Baskin. Bert Berns' longtime arranger / conductor Garry Sherman came out of retirement to do the musical's arrangements and orchestrations; Lon Hoyt prepared additional arrangements and was the show's music director. The design team included scenic design by Alexander Dodge, costume design by David Woolard, lighting design by Ben Stanton and sound design by Carl Casella. \"Piece of My Heart\" played its last performance Off-Broadway on September 14, 2014. Producers announced plans to transfer the show to Broadway in the 2015-16 Season.\n\nEarly development began at New York Theatre Workshop in the East Village of Manhattan in 2008, where a number of readings took place over the next two years. The musical received a month-long workshop production at New York Stage and Film's Powerhouse Season at Vassar College during the summer of 2011. The New York Stage and Film production was directed by Leigh Silverman and choreographed by Denis Jones and starred Jarrod Spector as Bert, Jenn Colella as Jessie, Linda Hart as Ilene, and De'Adre Aziza as Candace.\n\nLaura Collins-Hughes, in her review for \"The New York Times\", wrote: \"Filling that gap in our rock 'n' roll awareness is the mission behind the gorgeously tuneful, new jukebox musical \"Piece of My Heart: The Bert Berns Story - and if your first response to that title is \"Bert who?,\" well, that's exactly the point...When Bert Berns died at 38 in 1967, he left a voluminous catalog, and \"Piece of My Heart\" taps it expertly. \"Twist and Shout,\" \"I Want Candy,\" \"Hang On Sloopy\" and \"Everybody Needs Somebody to Love\" are among the many familiar songs that the show's stellar singers and splendid eight-piece orchestra may lodge in your brain.\n\nJeremy Gerard of \"Deadline Hollywood\" wrote: \"Jukebox musicals are the guilty pleasures of Broadway, and ever more frequently, off-Broadway, offering well-heeled patrons the joys of nostalgia and the reassuring sense that the songs we grew up on were classics worthy of revisiting. How else to account for the extraordinary popularity of \"Jersey Boys\", \"Beautiful: The Carole King Musical\", \"Motown: The Musical\", \"The Million Dollar Quartet\", \"Smokey Joe's Cafe\", \"Mamma Mia!\" and \"Rock of Ages\"? \"Piece of My Heart: The Bert Berns Story\", which opened Sunday night on 42nd Street, is a bargain-basement jukebox musical as entertaining as the best of those shows... So: Bert Who?...That's the point of \"Piece of My Heart\", the irresistible show with a weird but effective book by Daniel Goldfarb, songs by Berns performed by a cast that goes into overdrive to win our sympathy (they succeed) and a production directed and choreographed by Denis Jones that manages to embrace every cliche of the jukebox genre, and still hold us rapt.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "38697489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38697489", "title": "Pompeii (song)", "text": "Pompeii (song)\n\n\"Pompeii\" is a song by English indie rock band Bastille. It is the fourth single from their debut studio album \"Bad Blood\" and was released on 12 January 2013. The song's title and lyrics refer to the Roman town of the same name that was destroyed and buried in the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in AD 79.\n\n\"Pompeii\" became the band's breakthrough hit, peaking at number two on the UK Singles Chart and became the eleventh best selling song that year and, until June 2014, was the country's most streamed single of all time. It was also successful worldwide, reaching the top ten in fifteen countries worldwide, including the United States where it peaked at number five on the Billboard Hot 100, becoming their most successful single to date, until \"Happier\" reached number three in November 2018.\n\nThe song was nominated for British Single of the Year at the 2014 BRIT Awards. A mashup of the song with Rudimental and Ella Eyre's \"Waiting All Night\" was performed live by Rudimental, Eyre and Bastille at the aforementioned ceremony, which reached number 21 in the UK.\n\nAccording to the sheet music on Musicnotes.com, the song has a tempo of 128 beats per minute and is written in the key of A major with a chord progression of D-A-F#m-E.\n\nThe official music video was filmed in Los Angeles and Palm Springs, California. It was directed by Jesse John Jenkins and produced by Tova Dann. The video was first released onto YouTube on 20 January 2013 at a total length of three minutes and fifty-two seconds.\n\nThe video follows Bastille frontman Dan Smith, as he wanders about an empty-looking Los Angeles, before realizing the few people around all have unnatural vacant black eyes. He steals a car and drives into the desert to escape them, but the car breaks down and he soon realizes he's been infected as well. He climbs a mountain and looks out at the view, before turning around to reveal his own eyes meanwhile have turned black as well. The story is an allegory for the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in Pompeii.\n\nA popular dance remix of the track by Audien was nominated for Best Remixed Recording, Non-Classic at the 57th Annual Grammy Awards. It lost to Tiesto's remix of John Legend's \"All of Me\".\n\n\n\n\nThe song reached number one in Ireland, and peaked at number two in Italy and the UK. Previously, the single also held the record (now belonging to Clean Bandit's \"Rather Be\") for the longest time at number one on the Official Streaming Chart, remaining at the peak for seven weeks, and was the second most streamed track of 2013 in the UK. \"Pompeii\" spent the anniversary of its debut at number 30, having re-entered the top 40 the previous week following a live performance (a mash-up with Rudimental's \"Waiting All Night\") at the 2014 BRIT Awards.It spent a record 92 consecutive weeks in the top 100 (since matched by \"Happy\" by Pharrell Williams). With over 26 million streams by June 2014, \"Pompeii\" became the most streamed song of all time in the UK at that time and has sold 895,000 copies there. The B-side track \"Poet\" has also managed to chart in the UK at #121.\n\nThe song reached number one on the \"Billboard\" Alternative Songs chart in October 2013 and began climbing the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart. It peaked at number 5 in the Hot 100 in March 2014 and reached a million in sales in the US. By March 2014, the song had reached top 5 in the Hot 100 in its 29th week, and has sold over two million digital copies. By the end of its US run, Pompeii had managed to chart for a total of 53 weeks in the top 100 as well as sell 3 million digital sales mark by June 2014. As of December 2014, the song has sold 3.4 million copies in the US.\n\nCredits adapted from \"Bad Blood\".\n\n\nThe arcade machine featured in the cover art is \"\".\n\nThe song is featured in the trailer for the 2014 animated film \"Mr. Peabody & Sherman\". The Kat Krazy remix is featured in the 2013 video game \"Need for Speed Rivals\". It was also featured in the British soap opera \"Hollyoaks\" and the TV series \"Reign\" in the third episode of the first season, \"Kissed\". The song also features in the official soundtrack of First Touch game, \"First Touch Soccer 15\" as no.1 and Konami game, \"Pro Evolution Soccer 2015\" as no.3. The song is performed by the cast of \"Glee\" as the closing number of the season 5 finale.\n\nThe song is featured in the official trailer of the Earth Hour 2015.\n\nBelgian singer Heleen Uytterhoeven recorded a cover version in Latin, the original language of Pompeii. The YouTube video became inundated with commenters arguing in Latin over whether Uytterhoeven's translation was grammatically correct or not. The band Pompeii covered this song on their album Pompeii. \n\n!scope=\"col\" colspan=\"3\"| Streaming\n\n"}
{"id": "8138461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8138461", "title": "Prohibition in the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union", "text": "Prohibition in the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union\n\nProhibition in the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union existed during 1914–25. The Russian term is \"сухой закон\" (\"sukhoy zakon\", literally \"dry law\").\n\nProhibition as introduced in the Russian Empire in 1914 permitted the sale of hard liquor only in restaurants. It was introduced at the beginning of World War I under the premise that it would prevent the army from dealing with drunken soldiers. Other warring countries (e.g. the United Kingdom, France, and Germany) imposed certain restrictions on alcoholic drinks, but only Russia completely stopped the retail sale of vodka.\n\nProhibition continued through the turmoil of the Russian Revolution of 1917 and the Russian Civil War, into the period of Soviet Russia and the Soviet Union until 1925.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, there were three major anti-alcohol campaigns: started in 1958, 1972, and 1985.\n\nDuring 1985–87, Mikhail Gorbachev carried out an anti-alcohol campaign with partial prohibition, colloquially known as the \"dry law\". Prices of vodka, wine and beer were raised, and their sales were restricted in amount and time of day. People who were caught drunk at work or in public were prosecuted.\n\nThe reform had an effect on alcoholism in the country, as evident from statistics showing some fall in criminality and rise in life expectancy, but economically it was a serious blow to the state budget (a loss of approximately 100 billion rubles to the exchequer according to Alexander Yakovlev) after alcohol production migrated to the black market economy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "176943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176943", "title": "Richard Reid", "text": "Richard Reid\n\nRichard Colvin Reid (born 12 August 1973), also known as the Shoe Bomber, is a British terrorist who attempted to detonate an explosive device packed into his shoes while on American Airlines Flight 63 from Paris to Miami in 2001. Born to a father who was a career criminal, Reid converted to Islam as a young man in prison after years as a petty criminal. Later he became radicalized and went to Pakistan and Afghanistan, where he trained and became a member of al-Qaeda.\n\nOn 22 December 2001, he boarded American Airlines Flight 63 between Paris and Miami, wearing shoes packed with explosives, which he unsuccessfully tried to detonate. Passengers subdued him on the plane, which landed at Logan International Airport in Boston, Massachusetts, the closest US airport. He was subsequently arrested and indicted. In 2002, Reid pleaded guilty in U.S. federal court to eight federal criminal counts of terrorism, based on his attempt to destroy a commercial aircraft in flight. He was sentenced to 3 life terms plus 110 years in prison without parole and is currently being held at ADX Florence, a super maximum security prison in the United States.\n\nReid was born in Bromley, London, to Lesley Hughes, who was of native English descent, and Colvin Robin Reid, a man of mixed race whose father was a Jamaican immigrant. When Reid was born, his father, a career criminal, was in prison for stealing a car. Reid attended Thomas Tallis School in Kidbrooke, leaving at age 16 and becoming a graffiti writer who was in and out of jail. He began writing graffiti under the name \"Enrol\" as part of the FRF crew, and ultimately accumulated more than 10 convictions for crimes against persons and property. He served sentences at Feltham Young Offenders Institution and at Maidstone Prison.\n\nThe next time Reid was incarcerated (in 1992 for various street robberies for 3 years), he converted to Islam.\n\nUpon his release from prison in 1995, he joined the Brixton Mosque. He later began attending the Finsbury Park Mosque in North London, headed at that time by the anti-American cleric Abu Hamza al-Masri and described as \"the heart of the extremist Islamic culture\" in Britain. By 1998 Reid was voicing extremist views. At the Finsbury Park Mosque he fell under the sway of \"terrorist talent spotters and handlers\" allied with al-Qaeda, including Djamal Beghal, one of the leaders of the foiled plan for a 2001 suicide bombing of the American Embassy in Paris.\n\nHe spent 1999 and 2000 in Pakistan and trained at a terrorist camp in Afghanistan, according to several informants. He may also have attended an anti-American religious training centre in Lahore as a follower of Mubarak Ali Gilani.\n\nAfter his return to Britain, Reid worked to obtain duplicate passports from British government consulates abroad. He lived and travelled in several places in Europe, communicating via an address in Peshawar, Pakistan. In July 2001, Reid flew to Israel.\n\nReid and Saajid Badat, another British man preparing as a terrorist, returned to Pakistan in November 2001, and reportedly travelled overland to Afghanistan. They were given \"shoe bombs\", casual footwear adapted to be covertly smuggled onto aircraft before being used to destroy them. Later forensic analysis of both bombs showed that they contained the same plastic explosive and that the respective lengths of detonator cord had come from the same batch: the cut mark on Badat's cord exactly matched that on Reid's. The pair returned separately to the United Kingdom in early December 2001. Reid went to Belgium for 10 days before catching a train to Paris on 16 December.\n\nOn 21 December 2001, Reid attempted to board a flight from Paris to Miami, Florida. His boarding was delayed because his dishevelled physical appearance aroused the suspicions of the airline passenger screeners. In addition, Reid did not answer all of their questions, and had not checked any luggage for the transatlantic flight. Additional screening by the French National Police resulted in Reid's being re-issued a ticket for a flight on the following day. He returned to the Paris airport on 22 December 2001, and boarded American Airlines Flight 63 from Paris to Miami, wearing his special shoes packed with plastic explosives in their hollowed-out bottoms.\n\nOn 22 December 2001, a passenger on Flight 63 from Paris to Miami complained of a smoke smell in the cabin shortly after a meal service. One flight attendant, Hermis Moutardier, thinking she smelled a burnt match, walked along the aisles of the plane, trying to assess the source. A passenger pointed to Reid, who was sitting alone near a window and attempting to light a match. Moutardier warned him that smoking was not allowed on the airplane. Reid promised to stop.\n\nA few minutes later, Moutardier found Reid leaned over in his seat. Her attempts to get his attention failed. After asking \"What are you doing?\" Reid grabbed at her, revealing one shoe in his lap, a fuse which led into the shoe, and a lit match. She tried grabbing Reid twice, but he pushed her to the floor each time, and she yelled for help, and ran to get water. When another flight attendant, Cristina Jones, arrived to try to subdue him, he fought her, biting her thumb, and Moutardier threw water in his face. Several passengers worked together to subdue the 6 foot 4 inch (193 cm) tall, 200+ pound (90+ kg) Reid. They restrained him using plastic handcuffs, seatbelt extensions, leather waist belts and headphone cords. A doctor on board administered a tranquilizer to him which he found in the emergency medical kit of the airliner. The flight was immediately diverted to Logan International Airport in Boston, Massachusetts, the closest US airport.\n\nThe explosive apparently did not detonate due to the delay in the take-off of Reid's flight. The rainy weather, perhaps along with Reid's foot perspiration, caused the fuse to be too damp to ignite.\n\nReid was immediately arrested at Logan International Airport after the incident. Two days later, he was charged before a federal court in Boston with \"interfering with the performance of duties of flight crew members by assault or intimidation\", a crime which carries a penalty of up to 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. (Additional charges were added when he was formally indicted by a grand jury.) The judge ordered Reid held in jail without bail, pending trial due to the gravity of the crimes and the perceived high risk that he would try to flee. Officials at the time indicated that Reid's shoes contained 10 ounces (283 g) of explosive material characteristic of C-4—enough to blow a hole in the fuselage and cause the plane to crash.\n\nDuring a preliminary hearing on 28 December, an FBI agent testified that forensic analysis had identified the chemicals as PETN, the primary explosive, and TATP (triacetone triperoxide), a chemical needed to detonate the bomb with a fuse and match. The prosecutor obtained a grand jury indictment and on 16 January 2002, Reid was charged with nine criminal counts related to terrorism, namely: \n\nThe ninth charge, attempted wrecking of a mass transportation vehicle, was dismissed on June 11, 2002, because the Congressional definition of 'vehicle' did not include aircraft.\n\nReid pleaded guilty to the remaining eight counts on 4 October 2002. On 31 January 2003, he was sentenced by Judge William Young to the maximum of three consecutive life sentences and 110 years with no possibility of parole. Reid was also fined the maximum of $250,000 on each count, a total of $2 million.\n\nDuring the sentencing hearing, Reid said he was an enemy of the United States and in league with al-Qaeda. When Reid said he was a soldier of God under the command of Osama bin Laden, Judge Young responded: \n\n\"You are not an enemy combatant, you are a terrorist\" ... \"You are not a soldier in any army, you are a terrorist. To call you a soldier gives you far too much stature. (points to U.S. flag) You see that flag, Mr. Reid? That is the flag of the United States of America. That flag will be here long after you are forgotten.\"\n\nReid reportedly demonstrated a lack of remorse and a combative nature during the hearing, and said that \"the flag will come down on the day of judgment.\" He is serving his sentence at the United States Penitentiary, Florence ADX in Colorado, a supermax facility which holds the most dangerous prisoners in the federal system.\n\nAlthough Reid had insisted that he had acted alone and had built the bombs himself, forensic evidence included material from another person. In 2005, a British man, Saajid Badat from Gloucester, England, admitted that he had conspired with Richard Reid and a Tunisian man (Nizar Trabelsi, who is in jail in Belgium), in a plot to blow up two airliners bound for the United States, using their shoe bombs. Badat has said that he had been instructed to board a flight from Amsterdam to the United States. Badat never boarded and withdrew from his part of the conspiracy. Badat did not warn criminal or aviation authorities about Reid.\n\nBadat confessed immediately after being arrested by the British police. The detonator cord in Badat's bomb was found by experts to be an exact match for the cord on Reid's bomb, and their explosive chemicals were essentially identical. He had received the bomb-making materials from an Arab in Afghanistan. Badat was sentenced to 13 years in prison by a British judge and has since been released.\n\nAs a result of these events, airlines required passengers departing from an airport in the United States to pass through airport security in socks or bare feet while their shoes are scanned for bombs. Scanners do not find PETN in shoes or strapped to a person. A chemical test is needed. However, even if the X-ray scanners cannot detect all explosives, it is an effective way to see if the shoe has been altered to hold a bomb.\n\nIn 2011, the rules were relaxed to allow children 12 and younger and adults 75 and older to keep their shoes on during security screenings.\n\nCaptured al-Qaeda terrorist conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui, stated at his sentencing hearing in 2006 that Reid was a co-conspirator in the 11 September 2001, terrorist attacks on the United States, and that Moussaoui and Reid had intended to hijack a fifth aircraft and crash it into the White House in Washington, D.C., as part of the attacks that took place that day. Department of Justice investigators and the federal prosecutors were skeptical of Moussaoui's claim that Reid was involved in the plot.\n\nReid filed a lawsuit against the restrictions placed on him in prison which controlled his communications with lawyers and other non-prisoners, limited his access to Muslim clerics, and prevented him from joining in group prayer at the prison. In 2009, Reid went on a hunger strike and was force-fed and hydrated for several weeks. It was unknown whether Reid's hunger strike was related to his lawsuit. The Department of Justice, after consulting with its Counterterrorism Section, the prosecuting US Attorney's office, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, allowed these prison restrictions on Reid to expire during 2009, making his lawsuit moot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "88567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88567", "title": "Savoy Theatre", "text": "Savoy Theatre\n\nThe Savoy Theatre is a West End theatre in the Strand in the City of Westminster, London, England. The theatre opened on 10 October 1881 and was built by Richard D'Oyly Carte on the site of the old Savoy Palace as a showcase for the popular series of comic operas of Gilbert and Sullivan, which became known as the Savoy operas as a result.\n\nThe theatre was the first public building in the world to be lit entirely by electricity. For many years, the Savoy Theatre was the home of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company, which continued to be run by the Carte family for over a century. Richard's son Rupert D'Oyly Carte rebuilt and modernised the theatre in 1929, and it was rebuilt again in 1993 following a fire. It is a Grade II* listed building.\n\nIn addition to \"The Mikado\" and other famous Gilbert and Sullivan premières, the theatre has hosted such premières as the first public performance in England of Oscar Wilde's \"Salome\" (1931) and Noël Coward's \"Blithe Spirit\" (1941). In recent years it has presented opera, Shakespeare and other non-musical plays, and musicals.\n\nThe House of Savoy was the ruling family of Savoy descended from Humbert I, Count of Sabaudia (or \"Maurienne\"), who became count in 1032. The name Sabaudia evolved into \"Savoy\" (or \"Savoie\"). Count Peter (or \"Piers\" or \"Piero\") of Savoy (d. 1268) was the maternal uncle of Eleanor of Provence, queen-consort of Henry III of England, and came with her to London.\nKing Henry made Peter Earl of Richmond and, in 1246, gave him the land between The Strand and the Thames where Peter built the Savoy Palace in 1263. On Peter's death, the Savoy was given to Edmund, 1st Earl of Lancaster, by his mother, Queen Eleanor. Edmund's great-granddaughter, Blanche, inherited the site. Her husband, John of Gaunt, 1st Duke of Lancaster, built a magnificent palace that was burned down by Wat Tyler's followers in the Peasants' Revolt of 1381. King Richard II was still a child, and his uncle John of Gaunt was the power behind the throne and so a main target of the rebels.\n\nIn about 1505 Henry VII planned a great hospital for \"pouer, nedie people\", leaving money and instructions for it in his will. The hospital was built in the palace ruins and was licensed in 1512. Drawings show that it was a magnificent building, with a dormitory, dining hall and three chapels. Henry VII's hospital lasted for two centuries but suffered from poor management. The sixteenth-century historian John Stow noted that the hospital was being misused by \"loiterers, vagabonds and strumpets\". In 1702 the hospital was dissolved, and the hospital buildings were used for other purposes. Part of the old palace was used for a military prison in the eighteenth century. In the nineteenth century, the old hospital buildings were demolished and new buildings erected.\n\nIn 1864 a fire burned everything except the stone walls and the Savoy Chapel, and the property sat empty until Richard D'Oyly Carte bought it in 1880 to build the Savoy Theatre specifically for the production of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas that he was producing. The new theatre was built speedily, and accounts noted that it \"was situated on a site which, though rich in historical associations, was also rich in the olfactory sense, Mr Rimmel's scent factory being close by as was Burgess's Noted Fish-Sauce Shop.\"\n\nCarte bought the freehold of the site, then known as \"Beaufort Buildings\", early in 1880 for £11,000, but had begun planning his theatre several years before. In 1877 he engaged Walter Emden, an architect whose work includes the Garrick and the Duke of York's theatres. Before completing the site purchase, city officials had assured Carte that they would open a new street on the south side of the plot, provided he paid half the cost. He paid his half in March 1880, but the officials caused lengthy delays. Carte told \"The Times\", \"I am struggling in the meshes of red tape\". He finally received the necessary agreement in June. At the same time he ran into another obstacle: Emden suddenly revised his estimate of building costs upward from £12,000 to £18,000. Carte dismissed Emden, who successfully sued for £1,790 for services to date and £3,000 for wrongful dismissal.\n\nDesign of the theatre was given to C. J. Phipps. The builders were Patman and Fotheringham. Plans were drawn up and executed with speed and efficiency. Nonetheless, the advertised opening date had to be put back several times while the innovative electrical work was completed. The Savoy finally opened on 10 October 1881. Carte had at one time intended to call it the Beaufort Theatre, but he announced in a letter to \"The Daily Telegraph\" in 1881, \"On the Savoy Manor there was formerly a theatre. I have used the ancient name as an appropriate title for the present one.\" The exterior of the building was made from red brick and Portland stone. The interior decoration, by Collinson and Locke, was \"in the manner of the Italian Renaissance\", with white, pale yellow and gold predominating, including a gold satin curtain (instead of the usual printed act-drop), red boxes and dark blue seats. There were none of the cherubs, deities and mythical creatures familiar from the décor of rival theatres. Carte wanted nothing that would appear too garish or gaudy to his target, middle-class audience.\nOn the opening night Phipps took curtain calls along with Gilbert, Sullivan and Carte. \"The Times\" commented, \"A perfect view of the stage can be had from every seat in the house.\" Exits on all four sides of the theatre were provided, and fireproof materials were used to ensure maximum safety. There were three tiers with four levels: stalls and pit, balcony, circle, and amphitheatre and gallery at the top. The total seating capacity was 1,292. The proscenium arch was high by wide, and the stage was deep from the proscenium to the back wall. The theatre originally had its main entrance on the Embankment. The parcel on which it was built is steep, stretching from the Strand down to the Embankment along Beaufort Street. After Carte built the Savoy Hotel in 1889, the theatre entrance was moved to its present location at the hotel's courtyard off the Strand.\n\nThe Savoy was a state-of-the-art theatre and the first public building in the world to be lit entirely by electricity. In 1881, Sir Joseph Swan, inventor of the incandescent light bulb, supplied about 1,200 Swan incandescent lamps, and the lights were powered by a generator on open land near the theatre. Carte explained why he had introduced electric light: \"The greatest drawbacks to the enjoyment of the theatrical performances are, undoubtedly, the foul air and heat which pervade all theatres. As everyone knows, each gas-burner consumes as much oxygen as many people, and causes great heat beside. The incandescent lamps consume no oxygen, and cause no perceptible heat.\" The first generator proved too small to power the whole building, and though the entire front-of-house was electrically lit, the stage was lit by gas until 28 December 1881. At that performance, Carte stepped onstage and broke a glowing lightbulb before the audience to demonstrate the safety of the new technology. \"The Times\" described the electric lighting as superior, visually, to gaslight. Gaslights were installed as a backup, but they rarely had to be used. \"The Times\" concluded that the theatre \"is admirably adapted for its purpose, its acoustic qualities are excellent, and all reasonable demands of comfort and taste are complied with.\" Carte and his manager, George Edwardes (later famous as manager of the Gaiety Theatre), introduced several innovations including numbered seating, free programme booklets, good quality whisky in the bars, the \"queue\" system for the pit and gallery (an American idea) and a policy of no tipping for cloakroom or other services. Daily expenses at the theatre were about half the possible takings from ticket sales.\nThe work that opened the new theatre was Gilbert and Sullivan's comic opera \"Patience\", which had been running since April 1881 at the smaller Opera Comique. The last eight of Gilbert and Sullivan's comic operas were premièred at the Savoy: \"Iolanthe\" (1882), \"Princess Ida\" (1884), \"The Mikado\" (1885), \"Ruddigore\" (1887), \"The Yeomen of the Guard\" (1888) \"The Gondoliers\" (1889), \"Utopia, Limited\" (1893), and \"The Grand Duke\" (1896), and the term Savoy opera has come to be associated with all their joint works. After the end of the Gilbert and Sullivan partnership, Carte, and later his widow, Helen (and her manager from 1901–1903, William Greet), staged other comic operas at the theatre by Arthur Sullivan and others, notably Ivan Caryll, Sydney Grundy, Basil Hood and Edward German. The Savoy Operas of the 1890s, however, were far less successful than those of the Gilbert and Sullivan heyday. After Carte's production of \"The Chieftain\" ended in March 1895, the Theatre briefly hosted the Carl Rosa Opera Company and then closed until late 1895, when Carte resumed productions at the theatre. Sullivan died in 1900, and Richard D'Oyly Carte died in 1901.\n\nThe Savoy Theatre closed in 1903, and was reopened under the management of John Leigh and Edward Laurillard from February 1904 (beginning with a musical, \"The Love Birds\") to December 1906. The D'Oyly Carte Opera Company returned to the Savoy for repertory seasons between 1906 and 1909, in which year C. H. Workman took over the management of the theatre. He produced, among other works, Gilbert's final opera, with music by German, \"Fallen Fairies\" in 1909–10, which ran for only 51 performances. He also produced \"Two Merry Monarchs\" and \"Orpheus and Eurydice\" in 1910, the latter of which starred Marie Brema and Viola Tree in the title roles. The D'Oyly Carte Opera Company did not play in the theatre from 1909 until 1929, instead touring throughout Britain and playing London seasons in other theatres; other works held the stage of the Savoy. George Augustus Richardson managed the theatre from November 1911 to February 1915. \"The Mikado's\" record as the Savoy's longest-running production was broken by the comedy \"Paddy the Next Best Thing\", which played for 867 performances from April 1920.\n\nIn 1915 Richard D'Oyly Carte's son, Rupert D'Oyly Carte, took over management of the theatre. After serving in the navy in World War I, Carte decided to bring the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company back to London in first-rate style. He began to mount seasons of updated and refreshed Gilbert and Sullivan productions at first at the Prince's Theatre in 1919. J. B. Fagan's adaptation of \"Treasure Island\" first played in December 1922 at the Savoy Theatre with Arthur Bourchier as Long John Silver. It was so popular that it was revived every Christmas until the outbreak of World War II.\nOn 3 June 1929 Carte closed the Savoy Theatre, and the interior was completely rebuilt to designs by Frank A. Tugwell with elaborate décor by Basil Ionides. The ceiling was painted to resemble an April sky; the walls, translucent gold on silver; the rows of stalls were all richly upholstered in different colours, and the curtain repeated the tones of the seating. Ionides said that he took the colour scheme from a bed of zinnias in Hyde Park. The entire floor space had been replanned: the old cloakrooms and bar at the back of the theatre were relocated to the side, and instead of 18 boxes there was now only one. The new auditorium had two tiers leaving three levels: stalls, dress, and upper circle. The capacity of the old house, originally 1,292, had been reduced to 986 by 1912, and the new theatre restored the capacity almost completely, with 1,200 seats. The new stage was 29.3 feet wide, by 29.5 feet deep.\n\nThe theatre reopened on 21 October 1929 with a new production of \"The Gondoliers\" designed by Charles Ricketts and conducted by Malcolm Sargent. In the only box sat Lady Gilbert, the librettist's widow. There were Gilbert and Sullivan seasons at the Savoy Theatre in 1929–30, 1932–33, 1951, 1954, 1961–62, 1975, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003. Other famous works presented at the Savoy included the première of Noël Coward's \"Blithe Spirit\" (1941, which ran 1,997 consecutive performances, setting a new record for non-musical theatre runs), Robert Morley in \"The Man Who Came to Dinner\", and several comedies by William Douglas-Home starring, among others, Ralph Richardson, Peggy Ashcroft, and John Mills. The long-delayed first public performance in England of Oscar Wilde's \"Salome\" played at the theatre in 1931.\n\nAfter Rupert D'Oyly Carte died in 1948 his daughter, Bridget D'Oyly Carte, succeeded to the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company and became a director and later president of the Savoy Hotel group, which controlled the theatre. Management of the theatre was assumed in 1948 by Sir Hugh Wontner, chairman of the Savoy hotel group. The theatre was designated a Grade II* listed building in 1973. The D'Oyly Carte Opera Company closed in 1982, and Dame Bridget died childless in 1985, bringing the family line to an end. Wontner continued as chairman of the theatre until his death in 1992.\n\nWhile the theatre was being renovated in February 1990, a fire gutted the building, except for the stage and backstage areas. A proposal to build a new theatre in late 20th-century style was overruled by the Savoy's insurers and by English Heritage, the government body with oversight of listed buildings. It was decided to restore the building as faithfully as possible to the 1929 designs. Tugwell's and Ionides's working designs had been preserved, allowing accurate restoration of the theatre under the direction of the architect Sir William Whitfield, Sir Hugh Wontner and the theatre's manager, Kevin Chapple. It reopened on 19 July 1993, with a royal gala that included a specially commissioned ballet, \"Savoy Suite\", by Wayne Sleep to a score based on Sullivan's music. The present theatre has a capacity of 1,158. During the renovation, an extra storey was added above the theatre that includes a health club for the hotel and a swimming pool above the stage. The reopened theatre was the venue for the World Chess Championship in 1993, won by Garry Kasparov.\n\nIn 1993 Noël Coward's \"Relative Values\", played at the theatre, having premièred there in 1951, an original run of 477 performances. Tom Stoppard's \"Travesties\", with Antony Sher was next, and in 1994 the musical \"She Loves Me\" played, with Ruthie Henshall and John Gordon Sinclair. These were followed by Terry Johnson's \"Dead Funny\"; Alan Ayckbourn's \"Communicating Doors\" (which transferred to the theatre in 1996), with Angela Thorne; J. B. Priestley's \"When We Are Married\", with Dawn French, Alison Steadman, and Leo McKern; and Ben Travers' \"Plunder\", with Griff Rhys Jones and Kevin McNally. In 1997 a group led by Sir Stephen Waley-Cohen was given management of the theatre by The Savoy Group. Productions that followed included Simon Callow in \"The Importance of Being Oscar\"; Pet Shop Boys in concert; Ian Richardson in Pinero's \"The Magistrate\"; Edward Fox in \"A Letter of Resignation\"; the Royal Shakespeare Company's production of \"Richard III\", with Robert Lindsay; and Coward's \"Hay Fever\", with Geraldine McEwan in 1999.\nIn 2000 the briefly reconstituted D'Oyly Carte Opera Company produced \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" at the theatre. Donald Sutherland then starred in \"Enigmatic Variations\", followed by a second D'Oyly Carte season, playing \"The Pirates of Penzance\". In 2002, a season of \"Return to the Forbidden Planet\" was followed by the D'Oyly Carte productions of \"Iolanthe\", \"The Yeomen of the Guard\" and \"The Mikado\", and then a revival of Yasmina Reza's \"Life x 3\". In 2003, the company revived \"Pinafore\", followed by \"Bea Arthur at The Savoy\", John Steinbeck's \"Of Mice and Men\", \"Peter Pan\" and \"Pirates\". These were followed by \"The Marriage of Figaro\" and \"The Barber of Seville\" performed by The Savoy Opera Company in 2004. Next were seasons of Lorna Luft starring in \"Songs My Mother Taught Me\" and the new salsa musical \"Murderous Instincts\". Coward's \"Blithe Spirit\" was revived in 2004–05.\n\nThe Savoy Hotel group, including the theatre, was sold in 2004 to Quinlan Private which, in turn, sold the theatre in 2005 to the Ambassador Theatre Group (ATG) and the Tulbart Group (selling the Savoy Hotel to Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal). Productions since then have been mostly revivals and transfers of modern musicals; major productions have included \"\" and a new musical theatre version of \"Porgy and Bess\", directed by Trevor Nunn (both in 2006), \"Fiddler on the Roof\" (2007–08), \"Carousel\" (2008–09), \"Legally Blonde\" (2010–12), \"Let It Be\" (2013–14), \"Dirty Rotten Scoundrels\" (2014–15), \"Gypsy\" (2015), \"Funny Girl\" (2016) and \"Dreamgirls\" (2016–).\n\nIn December 2013, ATG acquired sole ownership of the Savoy.\n\n"}
{"id": "20198436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20198436", "title": "Second Persian invasion of Greece", "text": "Second Persian invasion of Greece\n\nThe second Persian invasion of Greece (480–479 BC) occurred during the Greco-Persian Wars, as King Xerxes I of Persia sought to conquer all of Greece. The invasion was a direct, if delayed, response to the defeat of the first Persian invasion of Greece (492–490 BC) at the Battle of Marathon, which ended Darius I's attempts to subjugate Greece. After Darius's death, his son Xerxes spent several years planning for the second invasion, mustering an enormous army and navy. The Athenians and Spartans led the Greek resistance. About a tenth of the Greek city-states joined the 'Allied' effort; most remained neutral or submitted to Xerxes.\n\nThe invasion began in spring 480 BC, when the Persian army crossed the Hellespont and marched through Thrace and Macedon to Thessaly. The Persian advance was blocked at the pass of Thermopylae by a small Allied force under King Leonidas I of Sparta; simultaneously, the Persian fleet was blocked by an Allied fleet at the straits of Artemisium. At the famous Battle of Thermopylae, the Allied army held back the Persian army for three days, before they were outflanked by a mountain path and the Allied rearguard was trapped and annihilated. The Allied fleet had also withstood two days of Persian attacks at the Battle of Artemisium, but when news reached them of the disaster at Thermopylae, they withdrew to Salamis.\n\nAfter Thermopylae, all of Euboea, Phocis, Boeotia and Attica fell to the Persian army, which captured and burnt Athens. However, a larger Allied army fortified the narrow Isthmus of Corinth, protecting the Peloponnesus from Persian conquest. Both sides thus sought a naval victory that might decisively alter the course of the war. The Athenian general Themistocles succeeded in luring the Persian navy into the narrow Straits of Salamis, where the huge number of Persian ships became disorganised, and were soundly beaten by the Allied fleet. The Allied victory at Salamis prevented a quick conclusion to the invasion, and fearing becoming trapped in Europe, Xerxes retreated to Asia leaving his general Mardonius to finish the conquest with the elite of the army.\n\nThe following spring, the Allies assembled the largest ever hoplite army, and marched north from the isthmus to confront Mardonius. At the ensuing Battle of Plataea, the Greek infantry again proved its superiority, inflicting a severe defeat on the Persians and killing Mardonius in the process. On the same day, across the Aegean Sea an Allied navy destroyed the remnants of the Persian navy at the Battle of Mycale. With this double defeat, the invasion was ended, and Persian power in the Aegean severely dented. The Greeks would now move to the offensive, eventually expelling the Persians from Europe, the Aegean islands and Ionia before the war finally came to an end in 479 BC.\n\nThe main source for the Great Greco-Persian Wars is the Greek historian Herodotus. Herodotus, who has been called the 'Father of History', was born in 484 BC in Halicarnassus, Asia Minor (then under Persian overlordship). He wrote his 'Enquiries' (Greek—\"Historia\"; English—\"(The) Histories\") around 440–430 BC, trying to trace the origins of the Greco-Persian Wars, which would still have been relatively recent history (the wars finally ending in 450 BC). Herodotus's approach was entirely novel, and at least in Western society, he does seem to have invented 'history' as we know it. As Holland has it: \"For the first time, a chronicler set himself to trace the origins of a conflict not to a past so remote so as to be utterly fabulous, nor to the whims and wishes of some god, nor to a people's claim to manifest destiny, but rather explanations he could verify personally.\"\n\nSome subsequent ancient historians, despite following in his footsteps, criticised Herodotus, starting with Thucydides. Nevertheless, Thucydides chose to begin his history where Herodotus left off (at the Siege of Sestos), and therefore evidently felt that Herodotus's history was accurate enough not to need re-writing or correcting. Plutarch criticised Herodotus in his essay \"On The Malignity of Herodotus\", describing Herodotus as \"Philobarbaros\" (barbarian-lover), for not being pro-Greek enough, which suggests that Herodotus might actually have done a reasonable job of being even-handed. A negative view of Herodotus was passed on to Renaissance Europe, though he remained well read. However, since the 19th century his reputation has been dramatically rehabilitated by archaeological finds that have repeatedly confirmed his version of events. The prevailing modern view is that Herodotus generally did a remarkable job in his \"Historia\", but that some of his specific details (particularly troop numbers and dates) should be viewed with skepticism. Nevertheless, there are still some historians who believe Herodotus made up much of his story.\n\nThe Greek historian Diodorus Siculus from Sicily, writing in the 1st century BC in his \"Bibliotheca Historica\", also provides an account of the Greco-Persian wars, partially derived from the earlier Greek historian Ephorus. This account is fairly consistent with Herodotus's. The Greco-Persian wars are also described in less detail by a number of other ancient historians including Plutarch, Ctesias, and are alluded by other authors, such as the playwright Aeschylus. Archaeological evidence, such as the Serpent Column, also supports some of Herodotus's specific claims.\n\nThe Greek city-states of Athens and Eretria had supported the unsuccessful Ionian Revolt against the Persian Empire of Darius I in 499–494 BC. The Persian Empire was still relatively young, and prone to revolts among its subject peoples. Moreover, Darius was a usurper, and had spent considerable time extinguishing revolts against his rule. The Ionian revolt threatened the integrity of his empire, and Darius thus vowed to punish those involved (especially those not already part of the empire). Darius also saw the opportunity to expand his empire into the fractious world of Ancient Greece. A preliminary expedition under Mardonius, in 492 BC, to secure the land approaches to Greece ended with the re-conquest of Thrace and forced Macedon to become a fully subordinate kingdom part of Persia. It had previously been a vassal as early as the late 6th century BC, but remained having autonomy and not fully subordinate yet.\n\nIn 491 BC, Darius sent emissaries to all the Greek city-states, asking for a gift of 'earth and water' in token of their submission to him. Having had a demonstration of his power the previous year, the majority of Greek cities duly obliged. In Athens, however, the ambassadors were put on trial and then executed; in Sparta, they were simply thrown down a well. This meant that Sparta was also now effectively at war with Persia.\n\nDarius thus put together an ambitious task force under Datis and Artaphernes in 490 BC, which attacked Naxos, before receiving the submission of the other Cycladic Islands. The task force then moved on Eretria, which it besieged and destroyed. Finally, it moved to attack Athens, landing at the bay of Marathon, where it was met by a heavily outnumbered Athenian army. At the ensuing Battle of Marathon, the Athenians won a remarkable victory, which resulted in the withdrawal of the Persian army to Asia.\n\nDarius therefore began raising a huge new army with which he meant to completely subjugate Greece; however, in 486 BC, his Egyptian subjects revolted, indefinitely postponing any Greek expedition. Darius then died while preparing to march on Egypt, and the throne of Persia passed to his son Xerxes I. Xerxes crushed the Egyptian revolt, and very quickly restarted the preparations for the invasion of Greece.\n\nSince this was to be a full-scale invasion, it required long-term planning, stock-piling and conscription. It was decided that Xerxes' Pontoon Bridges were to be set up to allow his army to cross the Hellespont to Europe, and that a canal should be dug across the isthmus of Mount Athos (rounding which headland, a Persian fleet had been destroyed in 492 BC). These were both feats of exceptional ambition, which would have been beyond any contemporary state. However, the campaign was delayed one year because of another revolt in Egypt and Babylonia.\n\nIn 481 BC, after roughly four years of preparation, Xerxes began to muster the troops for the invasion of Europe. Herodotus gives the names of 46 nations from which troops were drafted. The Persian army was gathered in Asia Minor in the summer and autumn of 481 BC. The armies from the Eastern satrapies was gathered in Kritala, Cappadocia and were led by Xerxes to Sardis where they passed the winter. Early in spring it moved to Abydos where it was joined with the armies of the western satrapies. Then the army that Xerxes had mustered marched towards Europe, crossing the Hellespont on two pontoon bridges.\n\nThe numbers of troops that Xerxes mustered for the second invasion of Greece have been the subject of endless dispute, because the numbers given in ancient sources are very large indeed. Herodotus claimed that there were, in total, 2.5 million military personnel, accompanied by an equivalent number of support personnel. The poet Simonides, who was a contemporary, talks of four million; Ctesias, based on Persian records, gave 800,000 as the total number of the army (without the support personnel) that was assembled by Xerxes. While it has been suggested that Herodotus or his sources had access to official Persian Empire records of the forces involved in the expedition, modern scholars tend to reject these figures based on knowledge of the Persian military systems, their logistical capabilities, the Greek countryside, and supplies available along the army's route.\n\nModern scholars thus generally attribute the numbers given in the ancient sources to the result of miscalculations or exaggerations on the part of the victors, or disinformation by the Persians in the run up to the war. The topic has been hotly debated but the modern consensus revolves around the figure of 300,000–500,000. Nevertheless, whatever the real numbers were, it is clear that Xerxes was eager to ensure a successful expedition by mustering overwhelming numerical superiority by land and by sea, and also that much of the army died of starvation and disease, never returning to Asia.\n\nHerodotus tells us that the army and navy, while moving through Thrace, was halted at Doriskos for an inspection by Xerxes, and he recounts the numbers of troops found to be present:\n\nHerodotus doubles this number to account for support personnel and thus he reports that the whole army numbered 5,283,220 men. Other ancient sources give similarly large numbers. The poet Simonides, who was a near-contemporary, talks of four million; Ctesias gave 800,000 as the total number of the army that assembled in Doriskos.\nAn early and very influential modern historian, George Grote, set the tone by expressing incredulity at the numbers given by Herodotus: \"To admit this overwhelming total, or anything near to it, is obviously impossible.\" Grote's main objection is the supply problem, though he does not analyse the problem in detail. He did not reject Herodotus's account altogether, citing the latter's reporting of the Persians' careful methods of accounting and their stockpiling of supply caches for three years, but drew attention to the contradictions in the ancient sources. A later influential historian, J. B. Bury, calls Herodotus's numbers \"wholly fabulous\" and judges that the Persian land forces may have been 180,000. A major limiting factor for the size of the Persian army, first suggested by Sir Frederick Maurice (a British transport officer) is the supply of water. Maurice suggested in the region of 200,000 men and 70,000 animals could have been supported by the rivers in that region of Greece. He further suggested that Herodotus may have confused the Persian terms for chiliarchy (1,000) and myriarchy (10,000), leading to an exaggeration by a factor of ten. Other early modern scholars estimated that the land forces participating in the invasion at 100,000 soldiers or less, based on the logistical systems available to the Ancients.\n\nMunro and Macan note Herodotus giving the names of six major commanders and 29 myriarchs (leaders of a baivabaram, the basic unit of the Persian infantry, which numbered about 10,000-strong); this would give a land force of roughly 300,000 men. Other proponents of larger numbers suggest figures from 250,000 to 700,000.\n\nThe size of the Persian fleet is also disputed, though perhaps less so. According to Herodotus the Persian fleet numbered 1,207 triremes and 3,000 transport and supply ships, including 50-oared galleys (\"Penteconters\") (πεντηκοντήρ). Herodotus gives a detailed breakdown of the Persian triremes:\n\nHerodotus also records that this was the number at the Battle of Salamis, despite the losses earlier in storms off Sepia and Euboea, and at the battle of Artemisium. He claims that the losses were replenished with reinforcements, though he only records 120 triremes from the Greeks of Thrace and an unspecified number of ships from the Greek islands. Aeschylus, who fought at Salamis, also claims that he faced 1,207 warships there, of which 1,000 were triremes and 207 fast ships. Diodorus and Lysias independently claim there were 1,200 at Doriskos. The number of 1,207 (for the outset only) is also given by Ephorus, while his teacher Isocrates claims there were 1,300 at Doriskos and 1,200 at Salamis. Ctesias gives another number, 1,000 ships, while Plato, speaking in general terms refers to 1,000 ships and more.\n\nThese numbers are (by ancient standards) consistent, and this could be interpreted that a number around 1,200 is correct. Among modern scholars some have accepted this number, although suggesting that the number must have been lower by the Battle of Salamis. Other recent works on the Persian Wars reject this number—1,207 being seen as more of a reference to the combined Greek fleet in the Iliad—and generally claim that the Persians could have launched no more than around 600 warships into the Aegean.\n\nThe Athenians had been preparing for war with the Persians since the mid-480s BC, and in 482 BC the decision was taken, under the guidance of the politician Themistocles, to build a massive fleet of triremes that would be necessary for the Greeks to fight the Persians. The Athenians did not have the man-power to fight on land and sea; therefore combatting the Persians would require an alliance of several Greek city states. In 481 BC Xerxes sent ambassadors around Greece asking for earth and water, but making the very deliberate omission of Athens and Sparta. Support thus began to coalesce around these two states.\n\nA congress of states met at Corinth in late autumn of 481 BC, and a confederate alliance of Greek city-states was formed. This confederation had the power to send envoys asking for assistance and to dispatch troops from the member states to defensive points after joint consultation. Herodotus does not formulate an abstract name for the union but simply calls them \"οἱ Ἕλληνες\" (the Greeks) and \"the Greeks who had sworn alliance\" (Godley translation) or \"the Greeks who had banded themselves together\" (Rawlinson translation). Hereafter, they will be referred to as the 'Allies'. Sparta and Athens had a leading role in the congress but interests of all the states played a part in determining defensive strategy. Little is known about the internal workings of the congress or the discussions during its meetings. Only 70 of the approximately 700 Greek cities sent representatives. Nevertheless, this was remarkable for the disjointed Greek world, especially since many of the city-states in attendance were still technically at war with each other.\n\nThe majority of other city-states remained more-or-less neutral, awaiting the outcome of the confrontation. Thebes was a major absentee, and was suspected of being willing to aid the Persians once the invasion force arrived. Not all Thebans agreed with this policy, and 400 \"loyalist\" hoplites joined the Allied force at Thermopylae (at least according to one possible interpretation). The most notable city actively siding with the Persians (\"Medised\") was Argos, in the otherwise Spartan-dominated Peloponnese. However, the Argives had been severely weakened in 494 BC, when a Spartan-force led by Cleomenes I had annihilated the Argive army in Battle of Sepeia and then massacred the fugitives.\n\nThe allies had no 'standing army', nor was there any requirement to form one; since they were fighting on home territory, they could muster armies as and when required. Different-sized allied forces thus appeared throughout the campaign. These numbers are discussed fully in the article for each battle.\n\nHaving crossed into Europe in April 480 BC, the Persian army began its march to Greece. Five major food depots had been set up along the path: at White Headland on the Thracian side of the Hellespont, at Tyrodiza in Perinthian territory, at Doriskos at the Evros river estuary where the Asian army was linked up with the Balkan allies, at Eion on the Strymon river, and at Therme, modern-day Thessaloniki. There, food had been sent from Asia for several years in preparation for the campaign. Animals had been bought and fattened, while the local populations had, for several months, been ordered to grind the grains into flour. The Persian army took roughly three months to travel unopposed from the Hellespont to Therme, a journey of about 600 km (360 mi). It paused at Doriskos where it was joined by the fleet. Xerxes reorganized the troops into tactical units replacing the national formations used earlier for the march.\n\nThe Allied 'congress' met again in the spring of 480 BC. A Thessalian delegation suggested that the allies could muster in the narrow Vale of Tempe, on the borders of Thessaly, and thereby block Xerxes's advance. A force of 10,000 Allies led by the Spartan polemarch Euenetus and Themistocles was thus despatched to the pass. However, once there, they were warned by Alexander I of Macedon that the vale could be bypassed by at least two other passes, and that the army of Xerxes was overwhelming; the Allies therefore retreated. Shortly afterwards, they received the news that Xerxes had crossed the Hellespont. The abandonment of Tempe meant that all of Thessaly submitted to the Persians, as did many cities to the north of the pass of Thermopylae when it seemed help was not forthcoming.\n\nA second strategy was therefore suggested to the Allies by Themistocles. The route to southern Greece (Boeotia, Attica and the Peloponnesus) would require the army of Xerxes to travel through the very narrow pass of Thermopylae. This could easily be blocked by the Allies, despite the overwhelming number of Persians. Furthermore, to prevent the Persians bypassing Thermopylae by sea, the allied navy could block the straits of Artemisium. This dual strategy was adopted by the congress. However, the Peloponnesian cities made fall-back plans to defend the Isthmus of Corinth should it come to it, while the women and children of Athens were evacuated \"en masse\" to the Peloponnesian city of Troezen.\n\nWhen the Allies received the news that Xerxes was clearing paths around Mount Olympus, and thus intending to march towards Thermopylae, it was both the period of truce that accompanied the Olympic games, and the Spartan festival of Carneia, during both of which warfare was considered sacrilegious. Nevertheless, the Spartans considered the threat so grave that they despatched their king Leonidas I with his personal bodyguard (the \"Hippeis\") of 300 men (in this case, the elite young soldiers in the Hippeis were replaced by veterans who already had sons). Leonidas was supported by contingents from the Peloponnesian cities allied to Sparta, and other forces that were picked up \"en route\" to Thermopylae. The Allies proceeded to occupy the pass, rebuilt the wall the Phocians had built at the narrowest point of the pass, and waited for Xerxes's arrival.\n\nWhen the Persians arrived at Thermopylae in mid-August, they initially waited for three days for the Allies to disperse. When Xerxes was eventually persuaded that the Allies intended to contest the pass, he sent his troops to attack. However, the Greek position was ideally suited to hoplite warfare, the Persian contingents being forced to attack the phalanx head on. The Allies thus withstood two full days of battle and everything Xerxes could throw at them. However, at the end of the second day, they were betrayed by a local resident named Ephialtes who revealed to Xerxes a mountain path that led behind the Allied lines. Xerxes then sent his elite guards, the Immortals on a night march to outflank the Allied. When he was made aware of this maneuver (while the Immortals were still \"en route\"), Leonidas dismissed the bulk of the Allied army, remaining to guard the rear with 300 Spartans, 700 Thespians, 400 Thebians and perhaps a few hundred others. On the third day of the battle, the remaining Allies sallied forth from the wall to meet the Persians and slaughter as many as they could. Ultimately, however, the Allied rearguard was annihilated, and the pass of Thermopylae opened to the Persians.\n\nSimultaneous with the battle at Thermopylae, an Allied naval force of 271 triremes defended the Straits of Artemisium against the Persians. Directly before Artemisium, the Persian fleet had been caught in a gale off the coast of Magnesia, losing many ships, but could still probably muster over 800 ships at the start of the battle. On the first day (also the first of the Battle of Thermopylae), the Persians detached 200 seaworthy ships, which were sent to sail around the eastern coast of Euboea. These ships were to round Euboea and block the line of retreat for the Allied fleet. Meanwhile, the Allies and the remaining Persians engaged in the late afternoon, the Allies having the better of the engagement and capturing 30 vessels. That evening, another storm occurred, wrecking the majority of the Persian detachment which had been sent around Euboea.\n\nOn the second day of the battle, news reached the Allies that their lines of retreat were no longer threatened; they therefore resolved to maintain their position. They staged a hit-and-run attack on some Cilician ships, capturing and destroying them. On the third day, however, the Persian fleet attacked the Allies lines in full force. In a day of savage fighting, the Allies held on to their position, but suffered severe losses (half the Athenian fleet was damaged); nevertheless, the Allies inflicted equal losses on the Persian fleet. That evening, the Allies received news of the fate of Leonidas and the Allies at Thermopylae. Since the Allied fleet was badly damaged, and since it no longer needed to defend the flank of Thermopylae, they retreated from Artemisium to the island of Salamis.\n\nVictory at Thermopylae meant that all Boeotia fell to Xerxes; the two cities that had resisted him, Thespiae and Plataea, were captured and razed. Attica was also left open to invasion, and the remaining population of Athens was thus evacuated, with the aid of the Allied fleet, to Salamis. The Peloponnesian Allies began to prepare a defensive line across the Isthmus of Corinth, building a wall, and demolishing the road from Megara, thereby abandoning Athens to the Persians. \n\nAthens fell a first time in September 480 BC. The small number of Athenians who had barricaded themselves on the Acropolis were eventually defeated, and Xerxes then ordered Athens to be torched. The Acropolis was razed and the Older Parthenon destroyed.\n\nThe Persians had now captured most of Greece, but Xerxes had perhaps not expected such defiance from the Greeks; his priority was now to complete the war as quickly as possible; the huge invasion force could not be supplied indefinitely, and probably Xerxes did not wish to be at the fringe of his empire for so long. Thermopylae had shown that a frontal assault against a well defended Greek position had little chance of success; with the Allies now dug in across the isthmus, there was therefore little chance of the Persians conquering the rest of Greece by land. However, if the isthmus's defensive line could be outflanked, the Allies could be defeated. Such an outflanking of the isthmus required the use of the Persian navy, and thus the neutralisation of the Allied navy. In summary, if Xerxes could destroy the Allied navy, he would be in a strong position to force a Greek surrender; this seemed the only hope of concluding the campaign in that season. Conversely by avoiding destruction, or as Themistocles hoped, by destroying the Persian fleet, the Greeks could avoid conquest. In the final reckoning, both sides were prepared to stake everything on a naval battle, in the hope of decisively altering the course of the war.\n\nThus it was that the Allied fleet remained off the coast of Salamis into September, despite the imminent arrival of the Persians. Even after Athens fell to the advancing Persian army, the Allied fleet still remained off the coast of Salamis, trying to lure the Persian fleet to battle. Partly as a result of subterfuge on the part of Themistocles, the navies finally engaged in the cramped Straits of Salamis. There, the large Persian numbers were an active hindrance, as ships struggled to manoeuvre and became disorganised. Seizing the opportunity, the Greek fleet attacked, and scored a decisive victory, sinking or capturing at least 200 Persian ships, and thus ensuring the Peloponnesus would not be outflanked.\n\nAccording to Herodotus, after this loss Xerxes attempted to build a causeway across the straits to attack Salamis (although Strabo and Ctesias place this attempt before the battle). In any case this project was soon abandoned. With the Persians' naval superiority removed, Xerxes feared that the Greeks might sail to the Hellespont and destroy the pontoon bridges. According to Herodotus, Mardonius volunteered to remain in Greece and complete the conquest with a hand-picked group of troops, while advising Xerxes to retreat to Asia with the bulk of the army. All of the Persian forces abandoned Attica, with Mardonius over-wintering in Boeotia and Thessaly. \n\nSome Athenians were thus able to return to their burnt-out city for the winter. They would have to evacuate again in front of a second advance by Mardonius in June 479 BC.\n\nHerodotus tells us that a Persian general, Artabazus, having escorted Xerxes to the Hellespont with 60,000 men, began the return journey to Mardonius in Thessaly. However, as he neared Pallene, \"he thought it right that he should enslave the people of Potidaea, whom he found in revolt.\" Despite attempts to capture the Greek city by treachery, the Persians were forced to keep up the siege for three months. Then, attempting to use an unusually low tide to attack the town from sea, the Persian army was caught by the returning tide, many drowning and the survivors being attacked by the Potideans in boats. Artabazus was thus forced to lift the siege, and return to Mardonius with the remnants of his men.\n\nWhile besieging Potidea, Artabazus also decided to besiege Olynthus, which was also in revolt. The town was held by the Bottiaean tribe, who had been driven out of Macedon. Having taken the town, he massacred the defenders, and handed over the town to the Chalcidian people.\n\nOver the winter, there seems to have been some tension between the Allies. In particular, the Athenians, who were not protected by the isthmus, but whose fleet were the key to the security of the Peloponnesus, felt hard done by. They demanded an Allied army march north the following year. When the other Allies failed to commit to this, the Athenian fleet probably refused to join the Allied navy in the spring. The navy, now under the command of the Spartan king Leotychides, thus skulked off Delos, while the remnants of the Persian fleet skulked off Samos, both sides unwilling to risk battle. Similarly, Mardonius remained in Thessaly, knowing an attack on the isthmus was pointless, while the Allies refused to send an army outside the Peloponessus.\n\nMardonius moved to break the stalemate, by offering peace, self-government and territorial expansion to the Athenians (with the aim of thereby removing their fleet from the Allied forces), using Alexander I of Macedon as an intermediary. The Athenians made sure that a Spartan delegation was on hand to hear the offer, but rejected it. Athens was thus evacuated again, and the Persians marched south and re-took possession of it. Mardonius brought even more thorough destruction to the city. According to Herodotus, Mardonius \"burnt Athens and utterly overthrew or demolished whatever wall or house or temple was left standing\".\n\nMardonius now repeated his offer of peace to the Athenian refugees on Salamis. Athens, along with Megara and Plataea, sent emissaries to Sparta demanding assistance, and threatening to accept the Persian terms if not. The Spartans, who were at that time celebrating the festival of Hyacinthus, delayed making a decision for 10 days. However, when the Athenian emissaries then delivered an ultimatum to the Spartans, they were amazed to hear that a task force was in fact already marching to meet the Persians.\n\nWhen Mardonius heard that the Allied army was on the march, he retreated into Boeotia, near Plataea, trying to draw the Allies into open terrain where he could use his cavalry. The Allied army however, under the command of the Spartan regent Pausanias, stayed on high ground above Plataea to protect themselves against such tactics. Mardonius ordered a hit-and-run cavalry attack on the Greek lines, but the attack was unsuccessful and the cavalry commander killed. The outcome prompted the Allies to move to a position nearer the Persian camp, still on high ground. As a result, the Allied lines of communication were exposed. The Persian cavalry began to intercept food deliveries and finally managed to destroy the only spring of water available to the Allies. The Allied position now undermined, Pausanias ordered a night-time retreat towards their original positions. This went awry, leaving the Athenians, and Spartans and Tegeans isolated on separate hills, with the other contingents scattered further away, near Plataea itself. Seeing that he might never have a better opportunity to attack, Mardonius ordered his whole army forward. However, as at Thermopylae, the Persian infantry proved no match for the heavily armoured Greek hoplites, and the Spartans broke through to Mardonius's bodyguard and killed him. The Persian force thus dissolved in rout; 40,000 troops managed to escape via the road to Thessaly, but the rest fled to the Persian camp where they were trapped and slaughtered by the Allies, thus finalising their victory.\n\nOn the afternoon of the Battle of Plataea, Herodotus tells us that rumour of the Allied victory reached the Allied navy, at that time off the coast of Mount Mycale in Ionia. Their morale boosted, the Allied marines fought and won a decisive victory at the Battle of Mycale that same day, destroying the remnants of the Persian fleet. As soon as the Peloponnesians had marched north of the isthmus, the Athenian fleet under Xanthippus had joined up with the rest of the Allied fleet. The fleet, now able to match the Persians, had first sailed to Samos, where the Persian fleet was based. The Persians, whose ships were in a poor state of repair, had decided not to risk fighting, and instead drew their ships up on the beach under Mycale. An army of 60,000 men had been left there by Xerxes, and the fleet joined with them, building a palisade around the camp to protect the ships. However, Leotychides decided to attack the camp with the Allied fleet's marines. Seeing the small size of the Allied force, the Persians emerged from the camp, but the hoplites again proved superior, and destroyed much of the Persian force. The ships were abandoned to the Allies, who burnt them, crippling Xerxes' sea power, and marking the ascendancy of the Allied fleet.\n\nWith the twin victories of Plataea and Mycale, the second Persian invasion of Greece was over. Moreover, the threat of future invasion was abated; although the Greeks remained worried that Xerxes would try again, over time it became apparent that the Persian desire to conquer Greece was much diminished.\n\nIn many ways Mycale represents the start of a new phase of the conflict, the Greek counterattack. After the victory at Mycale, the Allied fleet sailed to the Hellespont to break down the pontoon bridges, but found that this was already done. The Peloponnesians sailed home, but the Athenians remained to attack the Chersonesos, still held by the Persians. The Persians in the region, and their allies made for Sestos, the strongest town in the region, which the Athenians then laid siege to; after a protracted siege, it fell to the Athenians. Herodotus ended his \"Historia\" after the Siege of Sestos. Over the next 30 years, the Greeks, primarily the Athenian-dominated Delian League, would expel the Persians from Macedon, Thrace, the Aegean islands and Ionia. Peace with Persia came in 449 BC with the Peace of Callias, finally ending the half-century of warfare.\n\nThe Greek style of warfare had been honed over the preceding centuries. It revolved around the hoplite, members of the middle-classes (the \"zeugites\") who could afford the armour necessary to fight in this manner. The hoplite was, by the standards of the time, heavily armoured, with a breastplate (originally bronze, but probably by this stage a more flexible leather version), greaves, a full helmet, and a large round shield (the \"aspis\"). Hoplites were armed with a long spear (the \"doru\"), which was evidently significantly longer than Persian spears, and a sword (the \"xiphos\"). Hoplites fought in the phalanx formation; the exact details are not completely clear, but it was a close-knit formation, presenting a uniform front of overlapping shields, and spears, to the enemy. Properly assembled, the phalanx was a formidable offensive and defensive weapon; on occasions when it is recorded to have happened, it took a huge number of light infantry to defeat a relatively small phalanx. The phalanx was vulnerable to being outflanked by cavalry, if caught on the wrong terrain, however. The hoplite's heavy armour and long spears made them excellent troops in hand-to-hand combat and gave them significant protection against ranged attacks by light troops and skirmishers. Even if the shield did not stop a missile, there was a reasonable chance the armour would.\n\nThe Persian infantry used in the invasion were a heterogeneous group drawn from across the empire. However, according to Herodotus, there was at least a general conformity in the type of armour and style of fighting. The troops were, generally speaking, armed with a bow, 'short spear' and sword, carried a wicker shield, and wore at most a leather jerkin. The one exception to this may have been the ethnic Persian troops, who may have worn a corslet of scaled armour. Some of the contingents may have been armed somewhat differently; for instance, the Saka were renowned axemen. The 'elite' contingents of the Persian infantry seem to have been the ethnic Persians, Medians, Cissians and the Saka. The foremost of the infantry were the royal guards, the Immortals, although they were still armed in the aforementioned style. Cavalry was provided by the Persians, Bactrians, Medes, Cissians and Saka; most of these probably fought as lightly armed missile cavalry. The style of fighting used by the Persians was probably to stand off from an enemy, using their bows (or equivalent) to wear down the enemy before closing in to deliver the \"coup de grace\" with spear and sword.\n\nThe Persians had encountered hoplites in battle before at Ephesus, where their cavalry had easily routed the (probably exhausted) Greeks. However, at the battle of Marathon, the Athenian hoplites had shown their superiority over the Persian infantry, albeit in the absence of any cavalry. It is therefore slightly surprising that the Persians did not bring any hoplites from the Greek regions, especially Ionia, under their control in Asia. Equally, Herodotus tells us that the Egyptian marines serving in the navy were well armed, and performed well against the Greek marines; yet no Egyptian contingent served in the army. The Persians may not have completely trusted the Ionians and Egyptians, since both had recently revolted against Persian rule. However, if this is the case, then it must be questioned why there were Greek and Egyptian contingents in the navy. The Allies evidently tried to play on the Persian fears about the reliability of the Ionians in Persian service; but, as far as we can tell, both the Ionians and Egyptians performed particularly well for the Persian navy. It may therefore simply be that neither the Ionians nor Egyptians were included in the army because they were serving in the fleet — none of the coastal regions of the Persian empire appear to have sent contingents with the army.\n\nIn the two major land battles of the invasion, the Allies clearly adjusted their tactics to nullify the Persian advantage in numbers and cavalry, by occupying the pass at Thermopylae, and by staying on high ground at Plataea. At Thermopylae, until the path outflanking the Allied position was revealed, the Persians signally failed to adjust their tactics to the situation, although the position was well chosen to limit the Persian options. At Plataea, the harassing of the Allied positions by cavalry was a successful tactic, forcing the precipitous (and nearly disastrous) retreat; however, Mardonius then brought about a general melee between the infantry, which resulted in the Persian defeat. The events at Mycale reveal a similar story; Persian infantry committing themselves to a melee with hoplites, with disastrous results. It has been suggested that there is little evidence of complex tactics in the Greco-Persian wars. However, as simple as the Greek tactics were, they played to their strengths; the Persians however, may have seriously underestimated the strength of the hoplite, and their failure to adapt to facing the Allied infantry contributed to the eventual Persian defeat.\n\nAt the beginning of the invasion, it is clear that the Persians held most advantages. Regardless of its actual size, it is clear that the Persians had brought an overwhelming number of troops and ships to Greece. The Persians had a unified command system, and everyone was answerable to the king. They had a hugely efficient bureaucracy, which allowed them to undertake remarkable feats of planning. The Persian generals had significant experience of warfare over the 80 years in which the Persian empire had been established. Furthermore, the Persians excelled in the use of intelligence and diplomacy in warfare, as shown by their (nearly successful) attempts to divide-and-conquer the Greeks. The Greeks, by comparison, were fragmented, with only 30 or so city-states actively opposing the Persian invasion; even those were prone to quarrel with each other. They had little experience of large-scale warfare, being largely restricted to small-scale local warfare, and their commanders were chosen primarily on the basis of the political and social standing, rather than because of any experience or expertise. As Lazenby therefore asks: \"So why did the Persians fail?\"\n\nThe Persian strategy for 480 BC was probably to simply progress through Greece in overwhelming force. The cities in any territory that the army passed through would be forced to submit or risk destruction; and indeed this happened with the Thessalian, Locrian and Phocian cities who initially resisted the Persians but then were forced to submit as the Persians advanced. Conversely, the Allied strategy was probably to try and stop the Persian advance as far north as possible, and thus prevent the submission of as many potential Allies as possible. Beyond this, the Allies seem to have realised that given the Persians' overwhelming numbers, they had little chance in open battle, and thus they opted to try to defend geographical bottle-necks, where the Persian numbers would count for less. The whole Allied campaign for 480 BC can be seen in this context. Initially they attempted to defend the Tempe pass to prevent the loss of Thessaly. After they realised that they could not defend this position, they chose the next-most northerly position, the Thermopylae/Artemisium axis. The Allied performance at Thermopylae was initially effective; however, the failure to properly guard the path that outflanked Thermopylae undermined their strategy, and led to defeat. At Artemisium the fleet also scored some successes, but withdrew due to the losses they had sustained, and since the defeat of Thermopylae made the position irrelevant. Thus far, the Persian strategy had succeeded, while the Allied strategy, though not a disaster, had failed.\nThe defence of the Isthmus of Corinth by the Allies changed the nature of the war. The Persians did not attempt to attack the isthmus by land, realising they probably could not breach it. This essentially reduced the conflict to a naval one. Themistocles now proposed what was in hindsight the strategic masterstroke in the Allied campaign; to lure the Persian fleet to battle in the straits of Salamis. However, as successful as this was, there was no need for the Persians to fight at Salamis to win the war; it has been suggested that the Persians were either overconfident, or overeager to finish the campaign. Thus, the Allied victory at Salamis must at least partially be ascribed to a Persian strategic blunder. After Salamis, the Persian strategy changed. Mardonius sought to exploit dissensions between the Allies in order to fracture the alliance. In particular, he sought to win over the Athenians, which would leave the Allied fleet unable to oppose Persian landings on the Peloponnesus. Although Herodotus tells us that Mardonius was keen to fight a decisive battle, his actions in the run-up to Plataea are not particularly consistent with this. He seems to have been willing to accept battle on his terms, but he waited either for the Allies to attack, or for the alliance to collapse ignominiously. The Allied strategy for 479 BC was something of a mess; the Peloponnesians only agreed to march north in order to save the alliance, and it appears that the Allied leadership had little idea how to force a battle that they could win. It was the botched attempt to retreat from Plataea that finally delivered the Allies battle on their terms. Mardonius may have been overeager for victory; there was no need to attack the Allies, and by doing so he played to the main Allied tactical strength, combat in the melee. The Allied victory at Plataea can also therefore be seen as partially the result of a Persian mistake.\n\nThus, the Persian failure may be seen partly as a result of two strategic mistakes that handed the Allies tactical advantages, and resulted in decisive defeats for the Persians. The Allied success is often seen as the result of \"free men fighting for their freedom\". This may have played a part, and certainly the Greeks seem to have interpreted their victory in those terms. One crucial factor in the Allied success was that, having formed an alliance, however fractious, they remained true to it, despite the odds. There appear to have been many occasions when the alliance seemed in doubt, but ultimately it withstood; and while this alone did not defeat the Persians, it meant that even after the occupation of most of Greece, the Allies were not themselves defeated. This is exemplified by the remarkable fact that the citizens of Athens, Thespiae and Plataea chose to carry on fighting from exile rather than submit to the Persians. Ultimately, the Allies succeeded because they avoided catastrophic defeats, stuck to their alliance, took advantage of Persian mistakes, and because in the hoplite they possessed an advantage (perhaps their only real advantage at the start of the conflict), which, at Plataea, allowed them to destroy the Persian invasion force.\n\nThe second Persian invasion of Greece was an event of major significance in European history. A large number of historians hold that, had Greece been conquered, the Ancient Greek culture that lies at the basis of Western civilization would have never developed (and by extension Western civilization itself). While this may be an exaggeration, it is clear that even at the time the Greeks understood that something very significant had happened.\n\nMilitarily, there was not much in the way of tactical or strategic innovation during the Persian invasion, one commentator suggesting it was something of \"a soldier's war\" (i.e., it was the soldiers rather than generals that won the war). Thermopylae is often used as a good example of the use of terrain as a force multiplier, while Themistocles's ruse before Salamis is a good example of the use of deception in warfare. The major lesson of the invasion, reaffirming the events at the Battle of Marathon, was the superiority of the hoplite in close-quarters fighting over the more-lightly armed Persian infantry. Taking on this lesson, the Persian empire would later, after the Peloponnesian War, start recruiting and relying on Greek mercenaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135288", "title": "Seoul International Cartoon and Animation Festival", "text": "Seoul International Cartoon and Animation Festival\n\nThe Seoul International Cartoon and Animation Festival (SICAF, ) is an annual showcase festival of animation, cartoon and related art genres held in Seoul, South Korea since 1995. It is sponsored by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, and the city of Seoul. The main mascots are \"Bummy\" (버미) the tiger (after the original Korean word \"bum(범)\", which means tiger), and \"Tanko\" (땡고추, very hot chili pepper).\n\nThe festival has exhibitions, showing of animation films, promotion booths and various special events. There are an official competition section and invited guest section. Awards are given to the categories of long animation, short animation, TV & commissioned works, and internet animation. Online popularity votes are held as well. Grand prix winning animations include Hungary's \"The District!\" (2005), Japan's \"Tokyo Marble Chocolate\" (2008), and the Irish-Belgian-French \"The Secret of Kells\" (2009).\n\nAmong notable SICAF events was a 2003 performance by Ferenc Cakó, a Hungarian sand animation artist, which has been widely distributed online.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9161501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9161501", "title": "Soundwave (Australian music festival)", "text": "Soundwave (Australian music festival)\n\nSoundwave was an annual music festival held in major cities around Australia. The festival originated in Perth, Western Australia and began travelling to the other Australian capital cities in 2007. It features a number of international and Australian music acts, from various genres including rock, metal and punk. The festival has been headlined by Deftones, The Offspring, Incubus, Alice in Chains, Bloodhound Gang, Nine Inch Nails, Faith No More, Jimmy Eat World, Jane's Addiction, Soundgarden, Iron Maiden, Queens of the Stone Age, Smashing Pumpkins, System of a Down, Slipknot, Green Day, Avenged Sevenfold, Linkin Park, Blink-182 and Metallica. The festival was run and promoted by Soundwave Touring, who also run Harvest Festival and promote tours for bands and musicians each year.\n\nOn 17 December 2015, the Soundwave founder, music promoter AJ Maddah, announced that the 2016 Soundwave festival was cancelled due to poor ticket sales. This was announced two days after the announcement that 2016 would be the final Soundwave festival.\n\nThe Soundwave festival originated in Perth, as a smaller festival known as Gravity Soundwave within the Gravity Games. The Gravity Games were held in South Perth along the Swan River, being based mainly on water-based and action sports. The event was sponsored by Vodafone in its first year, with the company reportedly committing one million dollars to the event. Gravity Soundwave provided the music side of the festival, which took place at McCallum Park alongside the Swan River.\n\nGravity Soundwave was first introduced in the festival's first year, which was held on 14 and 15 October 2004. American pop punk band Good Charlotte effectively became the first headline act of Soundwave, when they performed in the festival's first night along with Gyroscope and One Dollar Short. The following night featured Unwritten Law, Regurgitator, MxPx, Lagwagon and Last Year's Hero.\n\nThe 2005 festival was again presented by Vodafone, being held on the night of 8 October. Gravity Soundwave was headlined by Grinspoon, with it also featuring American acts Unwritten Law, Reel Big Fish, and Goldfinger.\n\nThe third and final year of the Gravity Games festival in Perth was moved to December 2006, instead of October. Gravity Soundwave featured American act Aiden, local Australian bands Gyroscope, Kisschasy, Parkway Drive, The Getaway Plan and New Zealanders Goodnight Nurse.\n\nIn 2007 the festival expanded to include Sydney and Brisbane, and increased the number of bands performing. A number of the artists featured in the 2007 Festival had previously played at the Soundwave Festival in Perth, including Unwritten Law, MxPx and Parkway Drive.\n\nLocations\n\nLineup\n\n\n<br>\nLocal acts\n\"Brisbane\"\n\n\"Sydney\"\n\n\"Perth\"\n\n<br>\nNotes\n\nThe 2008 Soundwave festival was headlined by The Offspring, along with Incubus and Killswitch Engage and was expanded to include dates in Melbourne and Adelaide, increasing the number of dates from three to five. The expanded Festival featured five stages compared to three the previous year.\n\nLocations\n\nLineup\n\n\nLocal acts\n\"Brisbane\"\n\n\"Sydney\"\n\n\"Melbourne\"\n\n\"Adelaide\"\n\n\"Perth\"\n\nNotes\n\nThe lineup for the 2009 festival was announced on 24 September 2008, the headliners were Nine Inch Nails and sub-headliners were Alice in Chains and Bloodhound Gang.\n\nPresenters of British reality stunt TV show \"Dirty Sanchez\" and Finnish stuntmen \"The Dudesons\" were masters of ceremonies at Soundwave 2009.\n\nThis festival featured 55 acts across six stages.\n\nLocations\n\nLineup\n\n\nLocal acts\n\"Brisbane\"\n\n\"Sydney\"\n\n\"Melbourne\"\n\n\"Adelaide\"\n\n\"Perth\"\nNotes\n\nThe first lineup announcement for the 2010 festival was made on 13 August 2009, the headliners were Faith No More, Jane's Addiction and Placebo, the lineup also featured Paramore, AFI, Jimmy Eat World (who replaced My Chemical Romance) and HIM.\n\nThis festival featured 46 acts across six stages.\n\nLocations\n\nLineup\n\n\nLocal acts\n\"Brisbane\"\n\n\"Sydney\"\n\n\"Melbourne\"\n\n\"Adelaide\"\n\n\"Perth\"\n\n<br>\nNotes\n\nThe first lineup announcement for the 2011 festival was made on 5 August 2010, the headliners were Iron Maiden and Queens Of The Stone Age. The lineup also included The Starting Line, who reunited for the festival.\n\nThis festival featured 71 acts across eight stages.\n\nLocations\n\nLineup\n\n\nLocal acts\n\"Brisbane\"\n\n\"Sydney\"\n\n\"Melbourne\"\n\n\"Adelaide\"\n\n\"Perth\"\nNotes\n\n\n<br>\n\nThe lineup for the 2012 festival was first announced on 7 October 2011. The 2012 Soundwave lineup featured System of a Down, Slipknot, Limp Bizkit and Marilyn Manson.\n\nThis was the first time Limp Bizkit had toured Australia in eleven years. Their previous tour was the 2001 Big Day Out festival, which was marred by the death of 16-year-old Jessica Michalik during their performance at the Sydney show. Limp Bizkit singer Fred Durst paid tribute to Michalik at each Soundwave date and openly criticised Big Day Out organisers.\n\nThe festival also featured a reunited Coal Chamber, who played their first shows since 2003, and also marked the final shows of emo group Thursday.\n\nThis festival featured 95 acts across eleven stages.\n\nLocations\n\nLineup\n\n\nLocal acts\n\"Brisbane\"\n\n\"Sydney\"\n\n\"Melbourne\"\n\n\"Adelaide\"\n\n\"Perth\"\nNotes\n\nThe lineup for the 2013 Soundwave Festival was first announced on 8 August 2012. featuring headliners Metallica, Linkin Park and Blink-182, along with sub headliners A Perfect Circle, The Offspring, Garbage, Paramore, Tomahawk, Cypress Hill and Killswitch Engage\n\nThis edition of Soundwave was noted for its \"drummers' curse\", where several bands lost members in the week leading up to the festival:\n\n\nThere was also controversy regarding bands such as Pierce the Veil and The Amity Affliction having their sets cut short in Perth due to complaints from local residents - after this Maddah doubted the festival's future in Western Australia.\n\nThis festival featured 72 acts across nine stages (eight stages in Perth).\n\nLocations\n\nLineup\n\n\nLocal acts\n\"Brisbane\"\n\n\"Sydney\"\n\n\"Melbourne\"\n\n\"Adelaide\"\n\n<br>\nNotes\n\nThe lineup for the 2014 festival was first announced on 23 August 2013. The lineup containing 94 bands, featured Green Day, Avenged Sevenfold, Korn and Alice In Chains\n\nThe Perth festival was relocated from Claremont Showground to Arena Joondalup, 25 km north of Perth, two weeks before the beginning of the festival due to Soundwave's ongoing conflict with the Claremont Council. Following a similar situation at the Perth leg of Big Day Out in January of that year, which was also relocated from Claremont Showground to Arena Joondalup, AJ Maddah confirmed that 2014 would be the last Soundwave held in Perth, where the festival originated.\n\nLocations\n\nLineup\n\nLocal acts\n\"Brisbane\"\n\n\"Sydney\"\n\n\"Melbourne\"\n\n\"Adelaide\"\n\n\"Perth\"\nNotes\nOn 28 June 2014, Soundwave announced that it will become a two-day festival, held over two consecutive weekends, with half the bands announced playing day one and the other half playing day two, criss-crossing between Adelaide and Melbourne, then Sydney and Brisbane. AJ Maddah stated on Twitter \"Putting the line-up across [two] days enables us to minimise clashes; give bands longer sets, better staging, production [and] infrastructure. I am also hoping that this will give fans better value for money and a less stressful day.\" AJ Maddah later confirmed that 2015 was the last Soundwave for Adelaide in the foreseeable future as it made a $300,000 loss in 2014, but with the $1,400,000 loss in 2015 due to lackluster ticket sales being to large to subsidise out of the other cities.\n\nLocations\n\nDay One Lineup\n\n\nDay Two Lineup\n\n\nLocal acts\n\"Brisbane\"\n\n\"Sydney\"\n\n\"Melbourne\"\n\n\"Adelaide\"\nNotes\nOn 20 March 2015, AJ Maddah stated that Soundwave 2016 would return to the one-day format and would be held in January instead of the usual late February/early March dates. He also later stated that the 2016 lineup would be announced via \"drip-feeding\" and would also be smaller in order to achieve longer set times for bands.\n\nBullet for My Valentine was announced as the first act of Soundwave 2016 via the band's social media accounts and the official Soundwave website on 14 August 2015, and over the next four months, Disturbed was announced as the headliner and 24 other bands were added for a total of 26 bands.\n\nOn 15 December 2015, Maddah tweeted that 2016 would be the final ever Soundwave, stating it was due to \"stress and haters\", and two days later he tweeted that the festival had been officially cancelled.\n\nVarious problems contributed to its cancellation, including:\n\nLocations\n\nLineup\n\n\nNotes\n\n\nOfficial compilation CDs featuring artists who performed at the festival were released through Shock Records.\n\n"}
{"id": "34606468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34606468", "title": "Students Against Destructive Decisions", "text": "Students Against Destructive Decisions\n\nStudents Against Destructive Decisions, formerly Students Against Driving Drunk (SADD) is an organization whose aim is to prevent accidents from students taking potentially destructive decisions.\n\nThe mission of the SADD chapter is to help people avoid the dangers of drinking and driving. Today, their mission has expanded to deal with underage drinking, other drug use, risky and impaired driving, discrimination, bullying, and other destructive decisions.\n\nSADD's approach involves young people presenting education and prevention messages to their peers through school and community activities. Projects include peer-led classes and forums, teen workshops, conferences and rallies, prevention education and leadership training, awareness-raising activities and legislative work.\n\nAs of 2012, there are nearly 10,000 Middle school, high school, and college chapters with SADD advisors. There are 350,000 students actively participating (\"members\") in SADD chapters.\n\nSADD was founded by Robert Anastas at Wayland High School in Massachusetts in 1981. He and a group of 15 students developed the SADD concept and the Contract for Life. In 1982, SADD went national with offices founded throughout Massachusetts, Arizona, Ohio, North Carolina, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Florida, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Maine. In 1984, Dear Abby and Ann Landers printed the Contract for Life, suggesting to all readers that they request a copy from SADD. The SADD National office was inundated with 8,000 requests per week for six weeks. Also that year, \"Contract for Life: The SADD Story\" aired on CBS as a CBS Schoolbreak Special, and Carl Olsen, the first SADD president at Wayland High School, was appointed by the Director of Health and Human Services as the only student to a three-year panel studying the alcoholism in America.\n\nThe following year, SADD offices were established in Germany and Guam. Also in 1985, SADD had its first presidential moment when President Reagan met with SADD students of River Dell High School in New Jersey.\n\nIn 1989, SADD offices were established in schools in the Soviet Union. Also that year, the SADD National Board of Directors voted to cease accepting contributions from the alcohol industry.\n\nIn 1990, The American College of Physicians awarded the Edward G. Loveland Memorial Award to SADD for its contributions to the health field.\n\nIn 1992. William Cullinane became Executive Director of SADD.\n\nThe following year, the SADD Board of Directors voted not to accept funds from the alcohol industry.\n\nIn 1995, SADD received a letter of commendation from President Bill Clinton. The next year,\nMargaret Altstaetter, SADD Student of the Year 1995-1996, was invited to participate in the White House Leadership Conference on Youth, Drug Use and Violence.\n\nA new name was adopted in 1997: Students Against Destructive Decisions.\n\nIn 1999, three Student Leadership Council members, Lynsey Ross, Jereme McBride, and Carrie LeBlanc, were appointed to the National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy Leadership Team.\n\nSADD's Board of Directors appointed Penny Wells as its new President and Executive Director in 2000.\n\nSADD launched its National Scholarship Program in 2002, awarding its first two scholarships the following year.\n\nIn 2004, Jacqueline Hackett, Executive Committee member of the 2003-2004 SADD National SLC, testified before the Congressional Subcommittee on Education Reform at the hearing \"Preventing Underage Drinking: What Works?\"\n\nIn 2007, SADD attended a special White House event during which President George W. Bush highlighted a decline in youth drug use from 2001 to 2007.\n\nIn 2008, SADD partnered with the White House's National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign to raise awareness about the link between stress and drug use among teens and about prescription drug use.\n\nBy 2009, the SADDvocate, SADD's monthly e-newsletter for students and advisors, had reached more than 11,000 subscribers.\n\nIn 2010 SADD successfully lobbied for the introduction of the STARS (Students Taking Action for Road Safety) Act. In October, SADD received an international drug abuse prevention award from the Queen of Sweden. Also, The Mentor International Foundation presented SADD with the 2010 Youth Initiative Award for \"Mobilizing the Community: Youth Taking the Lead.\" SADD also took part in the Oprah Winfrey led \"No phone zone day.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "59092693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59092693", "title": "TaLC", "text": "TaLC\n\nTeaching and Language Corpora (TaLC) is the name of a biennial conference that focusses on data-driven learning (DDL), an approach to language teaching and learning.\n\nThese conferences aim to promote classroom applications of language corpora, data-driven learning, as well as the creation of corpus-informed teaching materials and other resources, and foster discussion between practitioners, researchers and theorists from all over the world.\n\nThe use of corpora in language teaching has been growing steadily since Tim Johns's pioneering work at Birmingham University in the last two decades of the 20th century.\n\nTaLC has been held at various European universities since the 1990s.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17716611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17716611", "title": "The Merchants of Bollywood", "text": "The Merchants of Bollywood\n\nThe Merchants of Bollywood is an Australian musical written and directed by Toby Gough. The show is about the history of the Bollywood film industry, and it is named after Hiralalji Merchant and his grand daughter Vaibhavi Merchant, two notable Indian choreographers. The set and lighting design was by Liz Berry and the costumes were designed by Falguni Thakore and Bipin. The musical has been described as \"an Indian version of the Billy Elliot story\" and is choreographed by Vaibhavi Merchant. It was the first ever Bollywood production to tour straight from Film City in Mumbai. When the show reached Australia in February 2008, there had been 400 performances seen by 500,000 patrons. The show toured the United Kingdom, various parts of Europe, the United States, Australia, Canada and various parts of Asia.\n\nThe English music and arts promoter Harvey Goldsmith presented a three-month tour of \"The Merchants Of Bollywood\" in UK during 2006. The show's Premier was at the Alexandra Theatre Birmingham on 24 October 2006 and the final show of the UK tour took place at the Apollo Theatre, London on 21 December 2006. A six-month tour of Europe followed in 2007.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30736579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30736579", "title": "The September Concert", "text": "The September Concert\n\nThe September Concert is a charity which organises free public concerts on the anniversaries of 9/11. It was founded by Haruko Smith, following the events of that day in 2001.\n\nFollowing the events of September 11th 2001, Haruko Smith had the idea to fill the skies of NYC with music, inspired by the words of Aldous Huxley:\n\nThe September Concert started out as a local grassroots charity and has grown to have a worldwide presence involving 10,000 volunteers and 15,000 musicians.\n\nThe September Concert Foundation was incorporated in April 2002 as a 501(c)(3) public charity, inspired a small army of volunteers, and on September 11th 2002 the first September Concert was born. To date this organization has functioned solely through the efforts of volunteers.\n\nIn addition to the Board of Directors that included artists Jacques d'Amboise and Robert Rauschenberg, The September Concert Foundation's Advisory Board was set up in 2002 with entertainers such as Quincy Jones, Ravi Shankar and Christy Turlington Burns. Business leaders such as Tom Freston also joined in to help the foundation.\n\nIn 2010, 200 concerts were held all over the world on or near September 11. In New York City 58 concerts were held, joined by another 30 U.S. cities and 45 international cities including Edinburgh London, Rome, Tamale (Ghana), Cap-Haïtien and Tokyo.\n\nThe mission of the September Concert Foundation is to bring communities together, to reaffirm the hope for peace, and to celebrate our universal humanity.\nThe foundation accomplishes this by inviting musicians of every age and genre to bring their gift of music anywhere space is available on the days surrounding the anniversary of September 11. Concerts are held in parks, gardens, schools, libraries, churches, restaurants, cafes, galleries, office buildings, stores, senior centers, community centers.\n\nThere are three principles behind the September Concert:\n\nMore news coverage of The September Concert\n\nVideo of September 2009 concerts around the world\n\nHaruko Smith, Founder and Chair, Taro Patrick Smith, Ph.D., Jacques d'Amboise, Robert Benezra, Ph.D., Milagros del Corral, Ph.D., John Daly Goodwin, Darryl Pottorf, Rebecca Seawright, Sundaram Tagore, Randy Wayne White\n\nRobert Rauschenberg\n\nMarisa Berenson, Christy Turlington Burns, John Campi, Tom Freston, Quincy Jones, Dorothy Lichtenstein, Milton Moskowitz, David Ng, Todd Oldham, Nancy Ploeger, Howard J. Rubenstein, Susan Rudin, William C. Rudin, Ravi Shankar, Steven Spinola, Scott M. Stringer, Dennis Swanson\n\nCamilla G. Hellman, Rosario Velasco Lino, Ludovica Rossi Purini, Mayo Shono, Koji Yoshikawa.\n\n"}
{"id": "58585039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58585039", "title": "Theatre Royal, Barnwell, Cambridge", "text": "Theatre Royal, Barnwell, Cambridge\n\nThe Theatre Royal was built in the Barnwell suburb of Cambridge, England, in 1816. It closed later that century but reopened as the Cambridge Festival Theatre from 1926 until 1935. The building, in which part of the interior of the theatre survives, is Grade II* listed.\n\nWilliam Wilkins (1751–1815), a building contractor, was proprietor of a chain of theatres in East Anglia known as the Norwich circuit. Performers included the Norwich Company of Comedians, and performances had been given since the late 18th century on Stourbridge Common, north of the city of Cambridge, at the annual Stourbridge fair. Wilkins and his son, also William (1778–1839), built a theatre in 1807 at Sun Street, Barnwell. The younger Wilkins – a prominent architect who had designed Downing College and went on to work at other colleges and the National Gallery – designed a new theatre nearby to replace the 1807 building.\n\nThe building is on the south side of the Newmarket Road in the northeastern Cambridge suburb of Barnwell. Completed in 1816, the theatre was sited outside the boundary of the town owing to prohibition of theatrical entertainment by the University authorities (a 1737 act \"for the More Effectual Preventing the Unlawful Playing of Interludes within the Precincts of the Two Universities ...\" forbade the performance of all plays and operas within five miles of the town).\n\nOn his father's death in 1815, Wilkins inherited the leases of the new site and six other theatres – Norwich, Bury St Edmunds, Colchester, Yarmouth, Ipswich and King's Lynn – and continued to run them. Proprietorship passed to his son, W Bushby Wilkins, and a succession of lessees, but the Norwich circuit declined. The theatre closed in 1878 and became a nonconformist chapel.\n\nTerence Gray (1895–1986) leased the building in 1926 and reopened it as the Cambridge Festival Theatre. The alleyway between the street and the building was enclosed to form a foyer. The interior was modernised, with the proscenium arch widened by the removal of the private boxes, and the introduction of electric lighting, a brick cyclorama and an early example of a revolving stage. The theatre was the country's \"first permanent indoor performing space to be based on the design of a Greek open-air theatre\".\n\nThe 'Festival' name reflected Grey's intention (unfulfilled) to promote summer festivals. The opening production on 22 November 1926 was \"Oresteia\", with choreography by Ninette de Valois.\n\nGrey retired from the theatre in 1933 and went on to write on Taoism under the pseudonym \"Wei Wu Wei\". Norman Marshall worked at the theatre from 1926 and was its director from 1932 to 1933.\n\nFrom 1927, Joseph Macleod was an actor and producer at the theatre, and in 1933 he became the theatre's director and lessee. Five of Macleod's plays were staged there, including \"Overture to Cambridge\" (1933) and \"A Woman Turned to Stone\" (1934). Under Macleod, the theatre became known for its avant-garde productions, and staging of lesser known works by great playwrights. Macleod staged some of Ezra Pound's Noh plays, and also some Ibsen and Chekhov (his company, The Cambridge Festival Players, was one of the first in the UK to stage Chekhov's play \"The Seagull\"). The theatre was obliged to close due to financial difficulties in June 1935.\n\nThe building was recorded as Grade II* listed in 1950. From 1962 it was used by the Arts Theatre as a workshop and store.\n\nThe building is in use as a Buddhist centre.\n\nHistoric England describe the interior as \"a virtually complete example of a Georgian theatre with a three-tiered horsehoe auditorium with the galleries supported on cast iron columns.\" and state that a painting of the Royal Arms remains above the proscenium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32774554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32774554", "title": "Théâtre des Folies-Marigny", "text": "Théâtre des Folies-Marigny\n\nThe Théâtre des Folies-Marigny, a former Parisian theatre with a capacity of only 300 spectators, was built in 1848 by the City of Paris for a magician named Lacaze and was originally known as the Salle Lacaze. It was located at the east end of the Carré Marigny of the Champs-Élysées, close to the Avenue Marigny, but faced west toward the Cirque National on the other side of the square.\n\nIn 1855 the Salle Lacaze became the home of Jacques Offenbach's Théâtre des Bouffes-Parisiens, where he first built his reputation as a theatre composer. It was subsequently used unsuccessfully by several companies until 1864, when it again became a profitable operetta theatre called the Folies-Marigny. When this company diminished in popularity, the theatre was closed. It was demolished in 1881 and replaced with the Panorama Marigny which was converted into the Théâtre Marigny in 1893.\n\nThe first recorded entertainment use of the site dates to 1835, when a showman set up attractions at the Marigny junction. After the French Revolution of 1848 a small theatre called the Salle Lacaze was built for a magician named Lacaze.\nIt was a summer theatre, and in it he presented \"legerdemain and amusing physical representations.\" His theatre was also known as the Château d'Enfer (Castle of the Underworld).\nLacaze began losing money, and sometime after 1852 he closed down.\n\nIn the spring of 1855 the composer Jacques Offenbach decided that the position of this modest wooden theatre was perfectly situated on the Carré Marigny to catch overspill traffic from the Universal Exposition of 1855; after some modifications to the site he opened the Théâtre des Bouffes-Parisiens on 5 July 1855. The theatre had a capacity of only 300 spectators. At the inaugural performance, Offenbach conducted four of his own works, the last of which was \"Les deux aveugles\", a one-act \"bouffonerie musicale\" about two swindling \"blind\" Parisian beggars. This little piece soon acquired an international reputation due to visitors from the Exposition and due to some controversy over its subject matter. Another notable premiere that summer was \"Le violoneux\". Further performances in the summer of 1855 were primarily of satirical sketches which only included a few musical numbers. The season, however, was so successful that Offenbach was able to resign his position as conductor of the Théâtre Français. This theatre was soon renamed Bouffes d'Été, as during the winter Offenbach directed the Bouffes d'Hiver in the Salle Choiseul on the rue Monsigny. The company also used the Salle Lacaze for the 1856, 1857, and 1859 summer seasons, and a total of 16 Offenbach pieces were premiered here by the Bouffes-Parisiens.\n\nOffenbach sublet the hall to the mime Charles Deburau in 1858 for one unsuccessful summer season (5 June to 14 October), when it was known as the Théâtre Deburau or the Bouffes-Deburau. Deburau's season included the premieres of three 1-act pieces with music by Hervé: \"Le voiturier\" (3 September), \"La belle espagnole\" (22 September), and \"Simple histoire\" (10 October).\n\nAfter Deburau, the theatre was again used by the Bouffes-Parisiens (1859). During the summer of 1860 Offenbach's company performed in Brusssels in June, while Offenbach himself went to Berlin to conduct the Berlin premiere of \"Orphée aux enfers\", and from July to early August the company performed in Lyon, leaving the Salle Lacaze empty. Legislation enacted in March 1861 prevented the Bouffes-Parisiens from continuing to use both theatres, and their appearances at the Salle Lacaze were discontinued.\n\nOn 1 January 1861 Raignard, inventor of a novel system of décors and tricks, applied for permission to use the theatre for presentations between 2 and 5 p.m. at reduced prices targeted at the \"numerous persons of a variable population\", whose occupations and limited means kept them from attending the theatre in the evening. He also intended it to help young authors, composers, and actors. By a ministerial order of 5 February his repertory was limited to one- and two-act \"comédies-vaudevilles\" and operettas (with at most 5 characters) and one- and two-act \"féeries\" (melodramas with magic) with tableaus, choruses, and dances. Performances were given under the name Théâtre Féerique des Champs-Élysées or Petit Théâtre Féerique des Champs-Élysées. After the failure of this enterprise, the director was dismissed by a decree of 3 August 1861, and on 7 August a second decree authorized the artists to continue performances as a society under the direction of Octave Guillier. This effort was abandoned, however, by 31 August.\n\nThe theatre was next used by Charles Bridault, who brought his Théâtre du Châlet des Îles in. This troupe had previously performed in the Bois de Boulogne from 13 June to 31 August. Their run of performances on the Champs-Élysées was short, however, only lasting from 3 to 10 September.\n\nThe theatre was next acquired by Céleste Mogador (Mme Lionel de Chabrillan), who had it renovated and rechristened as the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées (not to be confused with the later Théâtre des Champs-Élysées on the avenue Montaigne). She gave its direction to Eugène Audray-Deshorties, who received his authorization on 20 January 1862 and reopened the theatre on 19 April. His repertory was confined to one-, two-, and three-act \"comédies\" and \"vaudevilles\" (with \"intermèdes\" of song and dance) and operettas of one act, and was mainly borrowed from the Folies-Dramatiques (from the Boulevard du Temple), the Bouffes-Parisiens, and the Variétés. Due to poor management, he retired in September, and the theatre was rented to the troupe of the Folies-Dramatiques from 14 September to 6 November. Mme Chabrillan took over again in 1863. She applied for permission to open a café, with vocal concerts inside and instrumental concerts outside on the terrace, and provisionally entrusted its direction to Auguste Armand Bourgoin, who began on 22 June 1863. The theatre was sold to Louis-Émile Hesnard (the actor known as Montrouge) on 27 February 1864.\n\nMontrouge and his future wife Mlle Macé, turned it into a popular success as the Théâtre des Folies-Marigny (26 March 1864).\nSeveral early operettas of Charles Lecocq were performed here. The tenor Achille-Félix Montaubry, who had formerly performed at the Opéra-Comique but had experienced a decline in the allure of his voice, purchased the Folies-Marigny in 1868, and produced an operetta of his own composition called \"Horace\".\nIn April 1870 the theatre was taken over by Leduc.\nThe last performance was in April 1881, and shortly thereafter it was demolished, to be replaced with a panorama designed by the architect Charles Garnier. In 1893 Garnier's panorama was converted by the architect Édouard Niermans into a new theatre, which opened on 22 January 1896 under the name Folies-Marigny, but this was soon shortened to Marigny-Théâtre or Théâtre Marigny.\n\n"}
{"id": "178751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=178751", "title": "Toronto International Film Festival", "text": "Toronto International Film Festival\n\nThe Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF, often stylized as tiff) is one of the largest publicly attended film festivals in the world, attracting over 480,000 people annually. Since its founding in 1976, TIFF has grown to become a permanent destination for film culture operating out of the TIFF Bell Lightbox, located in downtown Toronto.\n\nYear-round, the TIFF Bell Lightbox offers screenings, lectures, discussions, festivals, workshops, industry support, and the chance to meet filmmakers from Canada and around the world. TIFF Bell Lightbox is located on the north west corner of King Street and John Street in downtown Toronto.\n\nIn 2016, 397 films from 83 countries were screened at 28 screens in downtown Toronto venues, welcoming an estimated 480,000 attendees, over 5,000 of whom were industry professionals. TIFF starts the Thursday night after Labour Day (the first Monday in September in Canada) and lasts for eleven days.\n\nFounded in 1976, TIFF is now one of the largest and most prestigious events of its kind in the world. In 1998, \"Variety\" magazine acknowledged that TIFF \"is second only to Cannes in terms of high-profile pics, stars, and market activity\". In 2007, \"Time\" noted that TIFF had \"grown from its place as the most influential fall film festival to the most influential film festival, period\". This is partially the result of the festival's ability and reputation for generating \"Oscar buzz\".\n\nThe festival's People's Choice Award—which is based on audience balloting—has emerged as an indicator of success in awards season, especially at the Academy Awards. Past recipients of this award include Oscar-winning films, such as: \"Life Is Beautiful\", \"American Beauty\", \"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon\", \"Slumdog Millionaire\", \"The King's Speech\", \"12 Years a Slave\", \"The Imitation Game\", \"Room\", \"La La Land\", and \"Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri\".\n\nThe festival's current executive director is Piers Handling, who is slated to be succeeded by Joana Vicente in November 2018. The festival's artistic director is Cameron Bailey.\n\nThe Toronto International Film Festival was first launched as the Toronto Festival of Festivals, collecting the best films from other film festivals around the world and showing them to eager audiences in Toronto. Founded by Bill Marshall, Dusty Cohl, and Henk Van der Kolk, the inaugural event took place from October 18 through 24, 1976. That first year, 35,000 filmgoers watched 127 films from 30 countries presented in ten programmes. Piers Handling has been the festival's director and CEO since 1994, while Noah Cowan became co-director of TIFF in 2004. In late 2007, Cowan became the artistic director of TIFF Bell Lightbox, while longtime programmer Cameron Bailey succeeded as co-director. As of 2013, Bailey is now the artistic director of the Toronto International Film Festival, as well as TIFF Bell Lightbox's year round programming.\n\nTIFF was once centred on the Yorkville neighbourhood, but the Toronto Entertainment District later gained a greater level of prominence. TIFF is known for the celebrity buzz it brings to the area with international media setting up near its restaurants and stores for photos and interviews with the stars. In 2010, TIFF opened its permanent headquarters, TIFF Bell Lightbox, a year-round home for the appreciation of film in the heart of downtown Toronto.\n\nTIFF has grown, steadily adding initiatives throughout the years. TIFF Cinematheque (formerly Cinematheque Ontario) and the Film Reference Library (FRL) opened in 1990. The TIFF Kids International Film Festival (formerly Sprockets) launched in 1998. Film Circuit began exhibiting independent and Canadian films in under-serviced cities across Canada in 1994.\n\nKey dates\n\nThe festival was founded in 1976 at the Windsor Arms Hotel by Bill Marshall, Henk Van der Kolk and Dusty Cohl. Beginning as a collection of the best-regarded films from film festivals around the world, it had an inaugural attendance of 35,000. Ironically, however, Hollywood studios withdrew their submissions from TIFF due to concerns that Toronto audiences would be too parochial for their products. In the years following, TIFF continued to concentrate on bringing the best films from around the world. Through consistent investment and promotion by its organisers and sponsors, the Toronto International Film Festival has also grown to become a vital component of Hollywood's marketing machine.\n\nIn 1994, the decision was made to replace the name \"Festival of Festivals\" with \"Toronto International Film Festival\". From 1994 to 2009, the umbrella organization running TIFF was named \"Toronto International Film Festival Group\" (TIFFG). In 2009, the umbrella organization TIFFG was renamed to TIFF.\n\nIn 2001, Perspective Canada, the programme that had focused on Canadian films since 1984, was replaced by two programmes:\n\nIn 2004, TIFF was featured as the site of murder mystery in the film \"Jiminy Glick in Lalawood\", a comedy film starring Martin Short.\n\nIn 2007, it was announced that the organization generates an estimated annual impact of $67 million CAD. By 2011, that benefit had grown to $170 million CAD.\n\nIn 2008, Rose McGowan caused controversy at a TIFF press conference for her film \"Fifty Dead Men Walking\", when she noted that \"I imagine, had I grown up in Belfast, I would 100% have been in the IRA.\"\n\nIn 2009, TIFF's decision to spotlight films from Tel Aviv created a controversy with protesters, saying it was part of an attempt to re-brand Israel in a positive light after the January 2009 Gaza War.\n\nIn 2017, TIFF reduced the number of films screened compared to the 2016 festival with 255 feature-length films in 2017 vs about 400 films in 2016, and also eliminate two venues that had been used in prior years.\n\nFilms such as \"American Beauty\", \"Ray\", \"Mr. Nobody\", \"127 Hours\", \"Black Swan\", \"The Five Obstructions\", \"Singapore Sling\", and \"I Am Love\" have premiered at TIFF. Jamie Foxx's portrayal of Ray Charles ultimately won him the Academy Award for Best Actor while \"Slumdog Millionaire\" went on to win eight Oscars at the 2009 Academy Awards. \"Precious\", which won the 2009 TIFF People's Choice Award, went on to win two Oscars at the 82nd Academy Awards. \"The King's Speech\", the winner of the 2010 TIFF People's Choice Award, won four Oscars at the 83rd Academy Awards, while \"Silver Linings Playbook\", the winner of the 2012 TIFF People's Choice Award, went on to win the Academy Award for Best Actress for Jennifer Lawrence.\n\nMany Hollywood studios premiere their films in Toronto due to TIFF's easy-going non-competitive nature, relatively inexpensive costs (when compared to European festivals), eager film-fluent audiences and convenient timing.\n\nIn 2007, the Festival Group began construction on TIFF Bell Lightbox, a new facility at the corner of King and John Streets in downtown Toronto, on land donated by Ivan Reitman and family. The $181 million facility is named for founding sponsor Bell Canada, with additional support from the Government of Ontario and Government of Canada.\n\nIn 2010, the organization opened its new headquarters at TIFF Bell Lightbox. The facility, designed by local firm KPMB Architects, provides extensive year-round galleries, cinemas, archives and activities for cinephiles. The five-storey facility contains five cinemas, two gallery spaces, film archives and an extensive reference library, study spaces, film lab facility, and a research centre. There is also a gift shop, two restaurants, a lounge, a cafe, and a three-storey atrium. Cooperatively with Daniels Corporation, there is a 46-storey condominium atop, called the Festival Tower.\n\nThe first film screening was Bruce McDonald's \"Trigger\". The first exhibition was a retrospective on Tim Burton, organized by the Museum of Modern Art (New York). Subsequent exhibitions include Fellini: Spectacular Obsessions, Grace Kelly: From Movie Star to Princess, Designing 007: 50 Years of Bond Style, and Stanley Kubrick: The Exhibition, all of which were organized by TIFF, as well as one called \"Essential Cinema\", featuring posters, images and props from TIFF's \"The Essential 100\" list of films.\n\nThe Film Reference Library (FRL) is a large Canadian film research collection. The library is a free resource for film lovers, filmmakers, students, scholars, and journalists, and is located on the fourth floor of the TIFF Bell Lightbox. An affiliate member of the International Federation of Film Archives (FIAF), the FRL promotes Canadian and global film scholarship by collecting, preserving, and providing access to a comprehensive collection of film prints, and film-related reference resources (including books, periodicals, scripts, research files, movies, press kits, and about 80 special collections.\n\nIn 2016, the festival received a donation of 1,400 film prints, and launched a campaign to raise money for the preservation and storage of the films.\n\nEach year, TIFF also releases a list of the films selected by festival programmers as the ten best Canadian feature and short films of the year, regardless of whether or not they were screened at TIFF. The films selected are announced in December each year, and are screened at a smaller follow-up festival at the Lightbox the following January; a People's Choice Award is then presented for that minifestival as well.\n\nSince 1984, every decade TIFF has also produced a Top 10 Canadian Films of All Time list. This list is produced from a wider poll of film industry professionals and academics throughout Canada, separately from the annual top-ten list.\n\nThe festival's major prize, the People's Choice Award, is given to a feature-length film. It is not a juried prize, but is given to the film with the highest ratings as voted by the TIFF-going populace. It is presently referred to as the \"Grolsch People's Choice Award\"; past sponsors of the award have included Cadillac. The winners of this award have often later earned Academy Award nominations. People's Choice Awards are also presented for and films. Each of the People's Choice Awards names first and second runners-up in addition to the winners.\n\nHowever, TIFF does present juried awards in some other categories. The festival presents three major awards for Canadian films: Best Canadian Film, Best Canadian First Feature Film, and Best Canadian Short Film, as well as international awards for Best Short Film, two FIPRESCI-sponsored Special Presentation and Discovery awards for international films, and a NETPAC-sponsored award for the best film from Asia having its world premiere at the festival.\n\nIn 2015, the festival introduced Platform, a juried programme that champions director’s cinema from around the world; one film from the stream is selected as the winner of the Platform Prize.\n\nFor all of the juried awards, honorable mentions may also be given, although the juries are expected to select one overall winner.\n\nThe hundreds of films screened at the annual festival are divided into sections (referred to by TIFF as \"Programmes\") based on genre (e.g. documentary, children's films), format (e.g. short films, television episodes), the status of filmmaker (e.g. \"masters\", first-time directors), and so forth. Up until the early 2010s there were sections reserved for Canadian films, but beginning in 2015 all Canadian films are integrated in sections with films from outside Canada.\n\nCurrently the festival's 14 sections are as follows:\n\nIn previous years, sections at TIFF have included Canada First!, City to City (2009 to 2016), Future Projections, Vanguard (up to 2016), and Visions (up to 2011).\n\nIn 2016, TIFF hosted 1,800 members of the press and print media outlets such as the \"Toronto Star\", \"The Globe and Mail\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Times of India\", \"Los Angeles Times\", \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\", \"Miami Herald\", and the \"Toronto Sun\" have published a significant amount of festival coverage. Also, the major industry trade magazines \"Variety\", \"The Hollywood Reporter\" and \"Screen International\" all produce daily editions during TIFF. TIFF reports also appear in weekly news magazines; American, Canadian and international entertainment shows; news services; and a wide range of film and celebrity blogs.\n\n"}
{"id": "9484632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9484632", "title": "Umanità Nova", "text": "Umanità Nova\n\nUmanità Nova is an Italian anarchist newspaper founded in 1920.\n\nIt was published daily until 1922, when it was shut down by the fascist regime. In some places its circulation exceeded that of the socialist paper \"Avanti!\". Upon the fall of the regime in 1945, publication began again, this time as a weekly.\n\nThe paper continues today and \"Umanità Nova\" is the mouthpiece of the Italian Anarchist Federation.\n\nContributors to \"Umanità Nova\" include its founders, Errico Malatesta and Antonio Cieri; Camillo Berneri, Armando Borghi, and Carlo Frigerio.\n\nThe paper was begun in 1909, by Ettore Molinari and Nella Giacomelli, who thought to turn the pamphlet \"Human Protest\" (La Protesta Umana) into a daily journal. During a national convention in 1911, the Rome Anarchist Communist Group proposed a national outlet to reach the movement outside the country, and in turn reinforce it within Italy. In April 1919, a large gathering of Italian anarchists, both organizationalists and individualists, attended a national convention in Florence, and agreed upon the need to close ranks and form a union together: the Italian Anarchist Communist Union. One of the main resolutions was to print a paper, and when Molinari and Giacomelli proposed it be published as a national daily, they and Emilio Spinaci were given the responsibility of determining whether it was possible to accomplish the feat of getting all the anarchists together, and began gathering the funds.\n\nNella Giacomelli gave the paper its present name, saying,\nDue to a blockade of the funds, delays in the post and a decree placing a quota on paper, to the downfall of new journals, publication was only possible thanks to an intervention by the workers of the lignite caves of Valdarno who supplied the energy for paper-mills, sending word that they would refuse to make any more deliveries until there was a guarantee to supply paper to \"Umanità Nova\". October 9, 1919 a notice was printed that the daily paper would be prepared, and funds began to arrive: about 200,000 lira were dedicated to bring it to life. So, on February 26, 1920 the first issue of \"Umanità Nova\" was released, an evening edition of four pages, ten cents cover price. 9,000 copies of the first edition grew to 40,000 within a month, and 50,000 in a heated moment, and if more weren't printed it was only because of the lack of paper. Its cash pool exceeded a million lira.\n\nThe enormous success reflected not only on the anarchist movement, but on a vast segment of the left which was now contiguous with the movement and would remain so for several months, until the failure of the factory occupations, which happened to turn it away. The bold, political line the anarchists held in their struggle helped them grow in terms of numbers and importance. If the Congress of Florence in 1919 had 145 in attendance in July 1920, the meeting in Bologna attracted about 700. In the syndicalist camp, the Italian Syndicalist Union (USI) went from 58,000 members by the end of 1919 to more than 180,000 in the first half of 1919 and to 300,000 the following year. Among the Confederation, the anarchists succeeded in taking the key administrative reformists such as the FIOM of Turin, with Pietro Ferrero and Maurizio Garino. It was a magical moment for Italian anarchism, to which the daily contributed more than a bit. This great efficacy was shown furthermore in the course of the imposing \"factory occupation\" movement among the workers. Just scroll through the pages of the newspaper in September 1920, to get an idea of how active anarchists were in the occupied factories and workshops, managed by their workers. Repression was not long in coming, and in October, almost the entire editorship of \"Umanità Nova\" was arrested, in the hundreds of arrests and searches carried out all across Italy, against anarchists and revolutionary syndicalists. Immediately following that, the USI was beheaded by the arrest of the entire General Council.\n\nThe police, however, could not figure out how the newspaper was still issued every day, with its editors in jail. The dragnet had not captured Gigi Damiani, who contacted individuals who had gone underground and avoided the wave of repression, and who had created a network which allowed it to move continuously. The newspaper was compiled this way, eventually reaching Milan where it was published regularly.\n\nOn February 29, 1920 there was a rally in Milan, in the Porta Romana school gym, organized by the Proletarian League of injured and disabled veterans. Leftists and trade unionists took part, including the anarchist Errico Malatesta, and Pasquale Binazzi and Armando Borghi's Italian Syndicalist Union (USI). The peaceful demonstration turned out to be a tragic anticipation of the fascist attack squads in the two years which followed. Protesters were repeatedly charged by the police, who fired on a train carrying demonstrators and killed two, wounding five others. With fascists supporting the ordinary police forces, the number of leaders in the anarchist movement shrank from 28 in 1921 to 3 in 1926. The history of \"Umanità Nova\" — its daily publication in Milan interrupted by the Diana event, moving to Rome where it became weekly and irregular until its final closure in 1922 — is thoroughly documented in a special dossier of the Directorate-General of Public Security. It began as an ambitious publishing accomplishment led by Malatesta, having a hugely successful subscription drive leading up to its first issue (135,000 lira of \"funds collected in the Kingdom\" by January 1920), and copies reserved in advance (6 lira for 100 copies), then the promotion, lotteries and house parties, and the establishment of \"Committees for Umanità Nova\" everywhere. The final act came when the police headquarters in Rome filed a complaint against twenty former editors, correspondents, and members of the board of directors of \"Umanità Nova\". A large pile of correspondence, pamphlets and propaganda were seized, and the newspaper's assets taken: 5,700 lira, 300 marks, 20,000 crowns and a checking account at Credito Italiano with 71,328 lira available, plus all their records. A similar situation took place in La Spezia, where the Blackshirts had destroyed the printing press and burned the offices of \"Il Libertario\", and with \"L'Avvenire Anarchico\" in Pisa. On October 28, 1922, the king Vittorio Emanuele III entrusted Benito Mussolini with the \"task of forming a new government\". \"Umanità Nova\" has this to say about his decision to give power to the executive head of the blackshirts:\n\n\"Umanità Nova\" also places responsibility on the socialists for helping the fascists' political ascent:\n\nImmediately following the fascist occupation of Rome, on October 30, 1922, the offices on Via Santa Croce in Milan were invaded and destroyed. After three weeks of forced silence, on November 22 they found a printer willing to publish the paper, and while the devastating fury of the blackshirts raged, issue number 196 of \"Umanità Nova\" was released. It would be the last.\n\nThe Italian experiment ended by force, \"Umanità Nova\" was reborn in Brooklyn, USA between 1924-25 Eighteen issues were published under the new editor Maris Baldini, a publicist. There are passionate articles about the fight against fascism, and the campaign to free Sacco and Vanzetti. Many interventions and analyses appeared on the Italian situation and on the role of anarchists in this phase: some important and interesting writings by Camillo da Lodi (a pseudonym of Camillo Berneri), A. Borghi, Luigi Fabbri, and others. The American edition of the journal immediately found a large following among exile communities, and the first issues sold out completely. Two special issues of \"Umanità Nova\" were published in Buenos Aires in 1930 and 1932. From October 20, 1932 to April 15, 1933, ten issues were published from Puteaux: Camillo Berneri and Antonio Cieri, and a number of free exiles, are the architects of the journal's rebirth as a biweekly, and its trajectory is a history of repression by French authorities. The international scope of \"Umanità Nova\" reaches Russia and Spain in particular, in its new social environment the paper entered a new phase, its authors desired that it become a paper with international horizons, opening a window onto workers' struggles in each country. The first months of 1933 are full of events of international importance. In January there was an anarchist uprising in Spain, which ended in the arrest, torture, and assassination of rebels in the Iberian Anarchist Federation, and in Germany, Hitler came to power, resulting in censorship of the press, restriction of the freedom of association, and repression of the Nazi's opponents. At this moment of critical social importance to the exiles, France ordered \"Umanità Nova\" to be shut down again. Only three issues of \"La Protesta\" exist, the last is dated March 28, 1933. The newspaper appeared again, illegally, in Italy in 1943, fulfilling the dream of Camillo Berneri.\n\nAfter ten years of forced silence, \"Umanità Nova\" was published by the underground once again, under the title \"Risorgiamo\" (Resurrection), on September 10, 1943. Between September 1943 and October 1944, articles were written not simple with only the intention of forming solidarity with oppressed subjects, but with the political purpose of urging a fight against fascism. The warning to \"concede nothing\" in the partisan fight came from this open letter to women, almost a political manifesto:\n\nReestablishment of political parties, demonstrations, and freedom of the press continued to be banned and repressed. The mood engendered by these circumstances and the growing demands of workers returning from the war, in the great strikes that had closed factories in Naples from August 17–20, 1943, just before the city successfully resisted the Nazi occupation, can be read in anti-fascist papers, from the communist \"l'Unità\" to the socialist \"Avanti!\", from the actionist \"L'Italia libera\" to the anarchist \"Umanità Nova\". Additional concrete suggestions and analysis appears in the article \"Fascists and Nazis at work\", interesting because it turns the favorite formula of treason used by Nazi propaganda on its head:\n\nAfter the collapse of Fascism in July 1943, and the Armistice that September, the Italian Anarchist Federation (FAI) took over management and publication of the paper, and it took on many of the characteristics of that group's libertarian philosophy: internal organization is not absolute and rigid, but is shaped by the mandates of a congress, who also establish the editorial motifs; an extensive network of frequent collaborators is recognized, any of its readers can have an exchange with the paper, with the effect that a substantial number of articles are published by very occasional collaborators; there is absolute freedom to choose the topic to be covered; distribution is left largely to the talents of militants. The circulation data is interesting, although quite difficult to reconstruct. The paper's spread was closely related to the native anarchist movement in each area, and to the different phases of the evolving Italian political and social situation. With some guesswork, we see that circulation rose from 13,000 in 1944, to an average of 15-16,000 copies per issue, up to a peak of 18,000, reached in 1946, then gradually decreasing to 10,000-10,500 copies in the early 1950s. Approximately 60% of revenue was from direct sales, while subscriptions accounted for at most 15%. The range of its greatest distribution were historically more consolidated: Tuscany, Lazio, and Emilia-Romagna.\n\nThe editorship and management are currently appointed by a congress of the FAI, and its members rotate every three years unless there are exceptional circumstances. The rotation of offices, used for every post in the FAI, helps prevent any concentration of power. \"Umanità Nova\" is printed weekly at a shop in self-managed Carrara, and distributed throughout Italy, among anarchist groups and headquarters, libraries, community centers, newsstands and bookstores, and also abroad. A complete list of outlets can be found on the magazine's website. It is also distributed in pdf format.\n\nThe newspaper is a weekly issue and publishes around 35 issues per year. Its articles covers the themes of workers struggles, antimilitarism, feminism, social-ecologism, antispecism and internationalism. Umanità Nova also publishes translations from foreign anarchist websites and newspaper, most notably from Le Monde Libertaire (France), LibCom.org, Crimethinc.org, Tierra y Libertad (Spain) and Meydan (Turkey). On the occasion of international anarchist and anarcho-sindacalists meetings and congress the newspaper covers the events with long-form articles and interviews of members of others organizations.\n\nIt hosts thematic debates which are developed in a number of issues, about political and more theoretical question. The editorial board is known, in Italian anarchist milieu, for its hardcore scientific, classist, internationalist and anti-primitivist wiews, which lead to a number of polemics with \"anarcho\"-primitivist and \"post anarchist\" groups and individuals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4357001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4357001", "title": "Vintage Computer Festival", "text": "Vintage Computer Festival\n\nThe Vintage Computer Festival (VCF) is an international event celebrating the history of computing. It is held annually in various locations around the United States and various countries internationally. It was founded by Sellam Ismail in 1997. As of February 2015, most rights to the Vintage Computer Festival franchise are owned by the Vintage Computer Federation Inc., a 501(c)(3) educational non-profit organization.\n\nThe Vintage Computer Festival promotes the preservation of \"obsolete\" computers by offering the public a chance to experience the technologies, people and stories that embody the remarkable tale of the computer revolution. VCF events include hands-on exhibit halls, VIP keynote speeches, consignment, technical classes, and other attractions depending on venue. It is consequently one of the premiere physical markets for antique computer hardware.\n\nThe Vintage Computer Federation owns VCF East (Wall Township, New Jersey), VCF Pacific Northwest (Seattle, Washington), VCF West (Mountain View, California), and future editions. Independent editions include the VCF Midwest (metro Chicago, Illinois), VCF Europa (Munich and Berlin, Germany; Vintage Computer Festival Zürich, Switzerland), Vintage Computer Festival GB, and VCF Southeast (Atlanta, Georgia).\n\n"}
{"id": "32645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32645", "title": "Voyeurism", "text": "Voyeurism\n\nVoyeurism is the sexual interest in or practice of spying on people engaged in intimate behaviours, such as undressing, sexual activity, or other actions usually considered to be of a private nature.\n\nThe term comes from the French \"voir\" which means \"to see\". A male voyeur is commonly labelled as \"Peeping Tom\" or a \"Jags\", a term which originates from the Lady Godiva legend. However, that term is usually applied to a male who observes somebody secretly and, generally, not in a public place.\n\nThe American Psychiatric Association has classified certain voyeuristic fantasies, urges and behaviour patterns as a paraphilia in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual\" (DSM-IV) if the person has acted on these urges, or the sexual urges or fantasies cause marked distress or interpersonal difficulty. It is described as a disorder of sexual preference in the ICD-10. The DSM-IV defines voyeurism as the act of looking at \"unsuspecting individuals, usually strangers, who are naked, in the process of disrobing, or engaging in sexual activity\". The diagnosis would not be given to people who experience typical sexual arousal simply by seeing nudity or sexual activity. In order to be diagnosed with voyeuristic disorder the symptoms must persist for over six months and the person in question must be over the age of 18.\n\nThere is relatively little academic research regarding voyeurism. When a review was published in 1976 there were only 15 available resources. Voyeurs were well-paying hole-lookers in especially Parisian brothels, a commercial innovation described as far back as 1857 but not gaining much notoriety until the 1880s, and not attracting formal medical-forensic recognition until the early 1890s. Society has accepted the use of the term voyeur as a description of anyone who views the intimate lives of others, even outside of a sexual context. This term is specifically used regarding reality television and other media which allow people to view the personal lives of others. This is a reversal from the historical perspective, moving from a term which describes a specific population in detail, to one which describes the general population vaguely.\n\nOne of the few historical theories on the causes of voyeurism comes from psychoanalytic theory. Psychoanalytic theory proposes that voyeurism results from a failure to accept castration anxiety and as a result a failure to identify with the father.\n\nVoyeurism has high prevalence rates in most studied populations. Voyeurism was initially believed to only be present in a small portion of the population. This perception changed when Alfred Kinsey discovered that 30% of men prefer coitus with the lights on. This behaviour is not considered voyeurism by today's diagnostic standards, but there was little differentiation between normal and pathological behaviour at the time. Subsequent research showed that 65% of men had engaged in peeping, which suggests that this behaviour is widely spread throughout the population. Congruent with this, research found voyeurism to be the most common sexual law-breaking behaviour in both clinical and general populations. In the same study it was found that 42% of college males who had never been convicted of a crime had watched others in sexual situations. An earlier study indicates that 54% of men have voyeuristic fantasies, and that 42% have tried voyeurism. In a national study of Sweden it was found that 7.7% of the population (both men and women) had engaged in voyeurism at some point. It is also believed that voyeurism occurs up to 150 times more frequently than police reports indicate. This same study also indicates that there are high levels of co-occurrence between voyeurism and exhibitionism, finding that 63% of voyeurs also report exhibitionist behaviour.\nDue to the prevalence of voyeurism in society, the people who engage in voyeuristic behaviours are diverse. However, there are some trends regarding who is likely to engage in voyeurism. These statistics apply only to those who qualify as voyeurs under the definition of the DSM, and not the broader modern concept of voyeurism as discussed earlier in this article.\n\nEarly research indicated that voyeurs were more mentally healthy than other groups with paraphilias. Compared to the other groups studied, it was found that voyeurs were unlikely to be alcoholics or drug users. More recent research shows that, compared to the general population, voyeurs were moderately more likely to have psychological problems, use alcohol and drugs, and have higher sexual interest generally. This study also shows that voyeurs have a greater number of sexual partners per year, and are more likely to have had a same-sex partner than general populations. Both older and newer research found that voyeurs typically have a later age of first sexual intercourse. However, other research found no difference in sexual history between voyeurs and non-voyeurs. Voyeurs who are not also exhibitionists tend to be from a higher socioeconomic status than those who do show exhibitionist behaviour.\n\nResearch shows that, like almost all paraphilias, voyeurism is more common in men than in women. However, research has found that men and women both report roughly the same likelihood that they would hypothetically engage in voyeurism. There appears to be a greater gender difference when actually presented with the opportunity to perform voyeurism. There is very little research done on voyeurism in women, so very little is known on the subject. One of the few studies deals with a case study of a woman who also had schizophrenia. This limits the degree to which it can generalise to normal populations.\n\nLovemap theory suggests that voyeurism exists because looking at naked others shifts from an ancillary sexual behaviour, to a primary sexual act. This results in a displacement of sexual desire making the act of watching someone the primary means of sexual satisfaction.\n\nVoyeurism has also been linked with obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD). When treated by the same approach as OCD, voyeuristic behaviours significantly decrease.\n\nHistorically voyeurism has been treated in a variety of ways. Psychoanalytic, group psychotherapy and shock aversion approaches have all been attempted with limited success. There is some evidence that shows that pornography can be used as a form of treatment for voyeurism. This is based on the idea that countries with pornography censorship have high amounts of voyeurism. Additionally shifting voyeurs from voyeuristic behaviour, to looking at graphic pornography, to looking at the nudes in Playboy has been successfully used as a treatment. These studies show that pornography can be used as a means of satisfying voyeuristic desires without breaking the law.\n\nVoyeurism has also been successfully treated with a mix of anti-psychotics and antidepressants. However the patient in this case study had a multitude of other mental health problems. Intense pharmaceutical treatment may not be required for most voyeurs.\n\nThere has also been success in treating voyeurism through using treatment methods for obsessive compulsive disorder. There have been multiple instances of successful treatment of voyeurism through putting patients on fluoxetine and treating their voyeuristic behaviour as a compulsion.\n\nAlthough small spy cameras had existed for decades, advances in miniaturisation and electronics since the 1950s have greatly aided the ability to conceal miniature cameras, and the quality and affordability of tiny cameras (often called \"spy cameras\" or subminiature cameras) has greatly increased. Some consumer digital cameras are now so small that in previous decades they would have qualified as \"spy cameras\", and digital cameras of twenty megapixels or more are now being embedded in some mobile camera phones. The vast majority of mobile phones in use are camera phones.\n\nCertain image capturing devices are capable of producing images through materials that are opaque to visible light, including clothing. These devices form images by using electromagnetic radiation outside the visible range. Infrared and terahertz-wave cameras are capable of creating images through clothing, though these images differ from what would be created with visible light.\n\nCandaulism is a sexual practice or fantasy in which a man exposes his female partner, or images of her, to other people for their voyeuristic pleasure. The term may also be applied to the practice of undressing or otherwise exposing a female partner to others, or urging or forcing her to engage in sexual relations with a third person, such as during a swinging activity. Similarly, the term may also be applied to the posting of personal images of a female partner on the internet or urging or forcing her to wear clothing which reveals her physical attractiveness to others, such as by wearing very brief clothing, such as a microskirt, tight-fitting or see-through clothing or a low-cut top. Candaulism can be viewed as both voyeuristic and exhibitionist.\n\nNon-consensual voyeurism is considered to be a form of sexual abuse. When the interest in a particular subject is obsessive, the behaviour may be described as stalking.\n\nThe United States FBI assert that some individuals who engage in \"nuisance\" offences (such as voyeurism) may also have a propensity for violence based on behaviours of serious sex offenders. An FBI researcher has suggested that voyeurs are likely to demonstrate some characteristics that are common, but not universal, among serious sexual offenders who invest considerable time and effort in the capturing of a victim (or image of a victim); careful, methodical planning devoted to the selection and preparation of equipment; and often meticulous attention to detail.\n\nLittle to no research has been done into the demographics of voyeurs.\n\nVoyeurism is not a crime at common law. In common law countries it is only a crime if made so by legislation. In Canada, for example, voyeurism was not a crime when the case \"Frey v. Fedoruk et al.\" arose in 1947. In that case, in 1950, the Supreme Court of Canada held that courts could not criminalise voyeurism by classifying it as a breach of the peace and that Parliament would have to specifically outlaw it. On November 1, 2005, this was done when section 162 was added to the Canadian \"Criminal Code\", declaring voyeurism to be a sexual offence.\n\nIn some countries voyeurism is considered to be a sex crime. In the United Kingdom, for example, non-consensual voyeurism became a criminal offence on May 1, 2004. In the English case of \"R v Turner\" (2006), the manager of a sports centre filmed four women taking showers. There was no indication that the footage had been shown to anyone else or distributed in any way. The defendant pleaded guilty. The Court of Appeal confirmed a sentence of nine months' imprisonment to reflect the seriousness of the abuse of trust and the traumatic effect on the victims.\n\nAnother English case in 2009, \"R v Wilkins\" (2010), resulted in a man who filmed his intercourse with five of his lovers for his own private viewing, being sentenced to imprisonment for eight months and ordered to sign the Sex Offenders Register, where his name would remain for ten years.\n\nIn a more recent English case in 2013, Mark Lancaster was found guilty and jailed for voyeurism, after having tricked an 18-year-old student into traveling to a rented flat in Milton Keynes, where he filmed her with four secret cameras dressing up as a schoolgirl and posing for photographs before he had sex with her.\n\nIn the United States, video voyeurism is an offence in nine states and may require the convicted person to register as a sex offender. The original case that led to the criminalisation of voyeurism has been made into a television movie called \"Video Voyeur\" and documents the criminalisation of secret photography. Criminal voyeurism statutes are related to invasion of privacy laws but are specific to unlawful surreptitious surveillance without consent and unlawful recordings including the broadcast, dissemination, publication, or selling of recordings involving places and times when a person has a reasonable expectation of privacy and a reasonable supposition they are not being photographed or filmed by \"any mechanical, digital or electronic viewing device, camera or any other instrument capable of recording, storing or transmitting visual images that can be utilised to observe a person.\"\n\nSaudi Arabia banned the sale of camera phones nationwide in April 2004, but reversed the ban in December 2004. Some countries, such as South Korea and Japan, require all camera phones sold in their country to make a clearly audible sound whenever a picture is being taken.\n\nIn 2013, the Indian Parliament made amendments to the Indian Penal Code, introducing voyeurism as a criminal offence. A man committing the offence of voyeurism would be liable for imprisonment not less than one year and which may extend up to three years for the first offence, and shall also be liable to fine and for any subsequent conviction would be liable for imprisonment for not less than three years and which may extend up to seven years and with fine.\n\nVoyeurism is generally deemed illegal in Singapore. Singapore sentences technologically-enabled voyeurs to a maximum punishment of one year's jail and a fine under the context of insulting a woman's modesty. Recent cases in 2016 include the sentencing of church facility manager Kenneth Yeo Jia Chuan who filmed women in toilets by planting pinhole cameras in a handicapped toilet at the Church of Singapore (Bukit Timah) at Hindhede Road, and in the unisex toilet of the church's office at Bukit Timah Shopping Centre.\n\nSecret photography by law enforcement authorities is called surveillance and is not considered to be voyeurism, though it may be unlawful or regulated in some countries.\n\n\n\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "1038684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1038684", "title": "World Animal Day", "text": "World Animal Day\n\nWorld Animal Day is an international day of action for animal rights and welfare celebrated annually on October 4, the feast day of Francis of Assisi, the patron saint of animals.\n\nThe mission of World Animal Day, is \"To raise the status of animals in order to improve welfare standards around the globe. Building the celebration of World Animal Day unites the animal welfare movement, mobilising it into a global force to make the world a better place for all animals. It's celebrated in different ways in every country, irrespective of nationality, religion, faith or political ideology. Through increased awareness and education we can create a world where animals are always recognised as sentient beings and full regard is always paid to their welfare.\"\n\nWorld Animal Day was originated by Heinrich Zimmermann. He organized the first World Animal Day on 24 March 1925 at the Sport Palace in Berlin, Germany. Over 5,000 people attended this first event. The event was originally scheduled for 4 October, to align with the feast day of Saint Francis of Assisi, patron saint of ecology, however the venue was not available on that day. The event was moved to 4 October for the first time in 1929. Initially he found a following only in Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Czechoslovakia. Every year Zimmermann worked tirelessly on the promotion of World Animal Day. Finally, in May 1931 at a congress of the International Animal Protection Congress in Florence Italy, his proposal to make 4 October World Animal Day universal, was unanimously accepted and adopted as a resolution.\n\nIt is sometimes cited, incorrectly, that World Animal Day started in 1931 at the convention of ecologists in Florence, Italy who wished to highlight the plight of endangered species.\n\nToday, World Animal Day is a global event uniting the animal protection movement, led and sponsored by UK-based animal welfare charity, Naturewatch Foundation since 2003.\n"}
{"id": "48815716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48815716", "title": "World Rakı Festival", "text": "World Rakı Festival\n\nWorld Rakı Festival, \"()\", is an overnight street festival in Adana that emerged from a hundred year long entertainment in the Kazancılar Bazaar where kebab, liver and rakı are accompanied with the street music and dances.\n\nRakı Festival is held every year on the second Saturday night of December. The dinner tables are placed on more than 10 streets around Büyüksaat. Besides the kebab restaurants of the area, kebap and liver vendors settle on the streets and serve food. Street musicians, playing drums and zurna visit the tables and entertain visitors. Night long music, dancing, eating and drinking ends with the sunrise on Sunday.\nThe Islamist media targeted and took hardline on the festival in 2015, months before taking place. At an interview with the Adana Governor of the national government, the Governor stated that he would not permit the festival where rakı is consumed at the streets. To avoid the ban, the festival organisers renamed the festival as Adana Kebap and Şalgam Festival, though the festival of 2015 happened no different than the ones in the previous years and the festival continued to be called the Rakı Festival by public.\n\nThe visitors of the live bird market that used to set up very early on Sundays at the Kazancılar area, had liver kebab breakfasts here together with the men that get out from the payvon \"()\". Thus, Kazancılar became the core of the kebab and liver dining culture in Adana for more than hundred years. Besides serving kebab to the businesses in the old town during the days, the kebab restaurants of Kazancılar are open late every night for food and entertainment and are frequented by Adana locals. Saturday overnight entertainment is accompanied by the liver breakfast tradition, that starts around 5am on Sunday lasting until noon. In 2010, Group of frequenters of Kazancılar designated the second Saturday of December as the World Rakı Day, to celebrate the popular national alcoholic beverage that combines well with kebab and şalgam. People initiated World Rakı Day was first celebrated on December 10, 2011. As years pass, the rakı celebration took attention not only from Adana locals, but by the kebab and rakı lovers from the Çukurova region and from all over Turkey. In year 2014, the festival is visited by more than 20 thousand people and took wide coverage on national media.\n\nThe festival in 2015, gathered a record of visitors, despite the banning requests by the Islamist media and supporting statements from the Adana Governor. At around 22:00, at the time the people were dining at the tables on the streets, a group of four Islamist attacked the festival with a pump rifle, gun, sticks and döner knife. After shooting twice to the air, the group attack the tables with sticks and döner knife, chanting anti-alcohol slogans. After a short chase, the civil police caught all the attackers and took them to the police station. The attack did not cause any injury or death and the entertainment continued afterwards until the early morning.\n"}
