{"id": "41750388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41750388", "title": "Abd al-Razzaq Maymandi", "text": "Abd al-Razzaq Maymandi\n\nAbd al-Razzaq Maymandi (; died 11th-century) was a Persian \"vizier\" of the Ghaznavid Sultan Maw'dud Ghaznavi and Abd al-Rashid.\n\nAbd al-Razzaq was the son of Ahmad Maymandi, a prominent Persian nobleman who served as the vizier of the Ghaznavid Sultan Mahmud of Ghazni and the latter's son Mas'ud I of Ghazni. During his early life, Abd al-Razzaq, along with his brothers were tutored by Abu Sahl Zawzani.\n\nHe started his career during the reign of Mahmud of Ghazni, but when his father fell into disgrace in 1024, he along with Abd al-Razzaq were imprisoned at Nandana in Punjab. Mahmud died six years later, which threw the Ghaznavid Empire into a civil war; Mahmud's two sons Mas'ud I and Mohammad Ghaznavi both claimed the Ghaznavid throne. However, it was Mas'ud who managed to emerge victorious during the civil war. He then ordered the release of Abd al-Razzaq and Ahmad.\n\nAbd al-Razzaq later participated in the battle of Dandanaqan against the Seljuq Turks. The Ghaznavid army, was, however, defeated and thus the Ghaznavid Empire lost all of Khorasan. During the reign of Ma'sud's successor, Maw'dud Ghaznavi, Abd al-Razzaq became a prominent figure in the Ghaznavid Empire and was appointed as his vizier in 1043. Abd al-Razzaq then served as the vizier of the Empire over seven years until the death of Mawdud in 1050. After the death of Maw'dud, civil war began once again. During the civil war, Abd al-Razzaq freed Abd al-Rashid from prison and proclaimed him as the Sultan of the Ghaznavid Empire.\n\nIn 1052, Toghrul of Ghazna, a Turkish slave general, deposed Abd al-Rashid and proclaimed himself as the Sultan of the Ghaznavid Empire. One year later, Farrukh-Zad of Ghazna, a Ghaznavid prince, defeated Toghrul and made order in the Ghaznavid Empire. Abd al-Razzaq also occupied high officies during the reign of Farrukh-Zad, but not as a vizier. Not much more is known about Abd al-Razzaq, he is last mentioned in 1058, and probably died a few years later. He had a nephew named Mansur ibn Sa'id, who also continued to occupy high offices under Ghaznavids.\n\n"}
{"id": "22296187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22296187", "title": "Absolution of the dead", "text": "Absolution of the dead\n\nThe Absolution of the dead (or Absoute from the French) is a series of prayers for pardon and remission of sins that are a practice observed in some Christian religions over the body of a deceased believer before disposition. The practice is found in the Eastern Orthodox Church as well as the Roman Catholic Church. Both religions use this practice to ask God not to have the deceased suffer for transgressions during life that they have repented or have been forgiven.\n\nIn the Catholic Church the \"Absolute\" are said over a deceased Catholic following a Requiem Mass and before burial. The absolution of the dead does not forgive sins or confer the sacramental absolution of the Sacrament of Penance. Rather, it is a series of prayers to God that the person's soul will not have to suffer the temporal punishment in purgatory due for sins which were forgiven during the person's life.\n\nThe absolution of the dead is only performed in context of the Extraordinary or Tridentine form Mass, but is absent from the funeral liturgy of the renewed Ordinary form Mass.\n\nAfter the Requiem Mass has concluded, the celebrant removes the chasuble and puts on the black cope. The subdeacon, bearing the processional cross and accompanied by the acolytes, goes to the head of the coffin (i.e. facing the altar in the case of a layman, but between the coffin and the altar in the case of a priest), while the celebrant stands opposite at the foot. The assisting clergy are grouped around and the celebrant, who at once begin the prayer \"Non intres in judicium cum servo tuo\", praying that the deceased \"may deserve to escape the avenging judgment, who, whilst he lived, was marked with the seal of the holy Trinity\". This is followed by the responsory \"Libera me Domine\", which is sung by the choir.\n\nThen the celebrant says the \"Kyrie eleison\" aloud followed by the Our Father. While the Our Father is repeated in silence by all, the celebrant walks around the coffin, sprinkling it with holy water and bowing profoundly before the processional cross when he passes it. He then takes the thurible and incenses the coffin. Finally after finishing the Our Father and repeating one or two short versicles to which answer is made by the clergy, the celebrant pronounces the prayer of absolution, most commonly in the following form:\n\n\"O God, Whose attribute it is always to have mercy and to spare, we humbly present our prayers to Thee for the soul of Thy servant N. which Thou has this day called out of this world, beseeching Thee not to deliver it into the hands of the enemy, nor to forget it for ever, but to command Thy holy angels to receive it, and to bear it into paradise; that as it has believed and hoped in Thee it may be delivered from the pains of hell and inherit eternal life through Christ our Lord. Amen.\"\n\nFollowing the absolution, the body is taken out of the church while the choir sings the \"In paradisum\".\n\nIf the body is not present, or on other occasions such as All Souls' Day or Requiem Masses on the anniversary of death, a catafalque or bier covered by a black pall may stand in the place of the body for the absolution. If a catafalque is not available, a black pall may be laid on the floor to stand in place the body.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church the \"Prayer of Absolution\" is written out on a piece of paper. After the singing of Memory eternal at the end of an Orthodox funeral, the prayer is read by the bishop or priest presiding over the funeral, or by the deceased's spiritual father. He stands near the coffin and, facing the deceased, reads the prayer:\n\nThe paper is then rolled up and placed in the hand of the departed.\n\nThe Prayer of Absolution is understood as the means by which \"the Church remits all the departed's transgressions, absolves him from all obligations, all pledges or oaths, and sends him off in peace into life everlasting.\" However, as is clear from the text of the prayer, it is intended only to forgive those sins which the departed had repented of during his or her lifetime.\n\nThe reading of the Prayer of Absolution is a more recent practice and replaces the older (and shorter) \"Parting Prayer\":\n\nThe Prayer of Absolution is not read in the Funeral for a Child (a special funeral used for children under the age of seven), since such young children are not generally held to be morally responsible for their sins, but is replaced by the following prayer:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2494366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2494366", "title": "Akrasia", "text": "Akrasia\n\nAkrasia (; Greek , \"lacking command\"), occasionally transliterated as acrasia or Anglicised as acrasy or acracy, is described as a lack of self-control or the state of acting against one's better judgment. The adjectival form is \"akratic\".\n\nThe problem goes back at least as far as Plato. In Plato's \"Protagoras\" Socrates asks precisely how it is possible that, \"if\" one judges action A to be the best course of action, one would do anything other than A?\n\nIn the dialogue \"Protagoras\", Socrates attests that akrasia does not exist, claiming \"No one goes willingly toward the bad\" (358d). If a person examines a situation and decides to act in the way he determines to be best, he will pursue this action, as the best course is also the good course, i.e. man's natural goal. An all-things-considered assessment of the situation will bring full knowledge of a decision's outcome and worth linked to well-developed principles of the good. A person, according to Socrates, never chooses to act poorly or against his better judgment; and, therefore, actions that go against what is best are simply a product of being ignorant of facts or knowledge of what is best or good.\n\nAristotle, on the other hand, took a more empirical approach to the question, acknowledging that we intuitively believe in akrasia. He distances himself from the Socratic position by locating the breakdown of reasoning in an agent’s opinion, not his appetition. Now, without recourse to appetitive desires, Aristotle reasons that akrasia occurs as a result of opinion. Opinion is formulated mentally in a way that may or may not imitate truth, while appetites are merely desires of the body. Thus, opinion is only incidentally aligned with or opposed to the good, making an akratic action the product of opinion instead of reason. For Aristotle, the antonym of \"akrasia\" is \"enkrateia\", which means \"in power\" (over oneself).\n\nThe word \"akrasia\" occurs twice in the Koine Greek New Testament. In Jesus uses it to describe hypocritical religious leaders, translated \"self-indulgence\" in several translations, including the English Standard version. Paul the Apostle also gives the threat of temptation through akrasia as a reason for a husband and wife to not deprive each other of sex (). In another passage (Rom. 7:15–25) Paul, without actually using the term \"akrasia\", seems to reference the same psychological phenomenon in discussing the internal conflict between, on the one hand, \"the law of God,\" which he equates with \"the law of my mind\"; and \"another law in my members,\" identified with \"the flesh, the law of sin.\" \"For the good that I would do, I do not; but the evil which I would not, that I do.\" (v.19)\n\nIn Edmund Spenser's \"The Faerie Queene\", book II, Acrasia, the embodiment of intemperance dwelling in the \"Bower of Bliss\", had the Circe-like capacity of transforming her lovers into monstrous animal shapes.\n\nDonald Davidson (1969–1980) attempted to solve the problem by first criticizing earlier thinkers who wanted to limit the scope of akrasia to agents who despite having reached a rational decision were somehow swerved off their \"desired\" tracks. Indeed, Davidson expands akrasia to include any judgment that is reached but not fulfilled, whether it be as a result of an opinion, a real or imagined good, or a moral belief. \"[T]he puzzle I shall discuss depends only on the attitude or belief of the agent…my subject concerns evaluative judgments, whether they are analyzed cognitively, prescriptively, or otherwise.\" Thus, he expands akrasia to include cases in which the agent seeks to fulfill desires, for example, but ends up denying himself the pleasure he has deemed most choice-worthy.\n\nDavidson sees the problem as one of reconciling the following apparently inconsistent triad:\n\nDavidson solves the problem by saying that, when people act in this way, they temporarily believe that the worse course of action is better, because they have not made an all-things-considered judgment, but only a judgment based on a subset of possible considerations.\n\nAnother contemporary philosopher, Amélie Rorty (1980) has tackled the problem by distilling out akrasia's many forms. She contends that akrasia is manifested in different stages of the practical reasoning process. She enumerates four types of akrasia: akrasia of direction or aim, of interpretation, of irrationality, and of character. She separates the practical reasoning process into four steps, showing the breakdown that may occur between each step and how each constitutes an akratic state.\n\nAnother explanation is that there are different forms of motivation which can conflict with each other. Throughout the ages, many have identified a conflict between reason and emotion, which might make it possible to believe that one should do A rather than B, but still end up wanting to do B more than A.\n\nPsychologist George Ainslie argues that akrasia results from the empirically verified phenomenon of hyperbolic discounting, which causes us to make different judgements close to a reward than we will when further from it.\n\nRichard Holton (1999), argues that weakness of the will involves revising one's resolutions too easily. Under this view, it is possible to act against one's better judgment (that is, be akratic), but without being weak-willed. Suppose, for example, Sarah \"judges\" that taking revenge upon a murderer is not the best course of action, but makes the resolution to take revenge anyway and sticks to that resolution. According to Holton, Sarah behaves akratically but does not show weakness of will. \n\n"}
{"id": "4314741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4314741", "title": "Ali Morteza Samsam Bakhtiari", "text": "Ali Morteza Samsam Bakhtiari\n\nAli Morteza Samsam Bakhtiari (1945 – October 30, 2007) was an Iranian author and oil expert employed by the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC). He held a number of senior positions with this organization beginning in 1971. He was also an adviser to the Oil Depletion Analysis Centre.\n\nBakhtiari was a member of the Bakhtiari tribe.\n\nHe held a Ph.D. in chemical engineering from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, Switzerland. He had been a part-time lecturer for the Technical Faculty at Tehran University for many years. Bakhtiari wrote a number of short essays and is the author of \"Peaks and Troughs\" which is about the modern history of Iran.\n\nBakhtiari suggested that it would require an act of god for the world to avoid warring over depleting energy resources. He also believed that a peak in natural gas would be more shocking than peak oil because natural gas is less fluid and requires pipelines and LNG facilities to export overseas.\n\nBakhtiari was featured in the 2004 documentary \"The End of Suburbia\".\n\nBakhtiari died suddenly of a heart attack in 2007. His funeral and burial were in Tehran. He was survived by his children, Amir Bahman and Golbenaz Samsam Bakhtiari.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23974509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23974509", "title": "Aro Tolbukhin. En la mente del asesino", "text": "Aro Tolbukhin. En la mente del asesino\n\nAro Tolbukhin; En la mente del asesino is a 2002 Spanish film, written and directed by Isaac Pierre Racine, Agustí Villaronga, and Lydia Zimmermann. It was the 2003 Spanish submission for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.\n\nThe film tells the story of Aro Tolbukhin, a Hungarian salesman who set fire to seven people in an infirmary in a mission in Guatemala. The movie follows his life, from his childhood in Hungary to his arrival in Guatemala, in an attempt to determine his motivations.\n\n"}
{"id": "36122619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36122619", "title": "Artificial life", "text": "Artificial life\n\nArtificial life (often abbreviated ALife or A-Life) is a field of study wherein researchers examine systems related to natural life, its processes, and its evolution, through the use of simulations with computer models, robotics, and biochemistry. The discipline was named by Christopher Langton, an American theoretical biologist, in 1986. There are three main kinds of alife, named for their approaches: \"soft\", from software; \"hard\", from hardware; and \"wet\", from biochemistry. Artificial life researchers study traditional biology by trying to recreate aspects of biological phenomena.\n\nArtificial life studies the fundamental processes of living systems in artificial environments in order to gain a deeper understanding of the complex information processing that define such systems. These topics are broad, but often include evolutionary dynamics, emergent properties of collective systems, biomimicry, as well as related issues about the philosophy of the nature of life and the use of lifelike properties in artistic works.\n\nThe modeling philosophy of artificial life strongly differs from traditional modeling by studying not only \"life-as-we-know-it\" but also \"life-as-it-might-be\".\n\nA traditional model of a biological system will focus on capturing its most important parameters. In contrast, an alife modeling approach will generally seek to decipher the most simple and general principles underlying life and implement them in a simulation. The simulation then offers the possibility to analyse new and different lifelike systems.\n\nVladimir Georgievich Red'ko proposed to generalize this distinction to the modeling of any process, leading to the more general distinction of \"processes-as-we-know-them\" and \"processes-as-they-could-be\".\n\nAt present, the commonly accepted definition of life does not consider any current alife simulations or software to be alive, and they do not constitute part of the evolutionary process of any ecosystem. However, different opinions about artificial life's potential have arisen:\n\n\n\nThis is a list of artificial life/digital organism simulators, organized by the method of creature definition.\n\nProgram-based simulations contain organisms with a complex DNA language, usually Turing complete. This language is more often in the form of a computer program than actual biological DNA. Assembly derivatives are the most common languages used. An organism \"lives\" when its code is executed, and there are usually various methods allowing self-replication. Mutations are generally implemented as random changes to the code. Use of cellular automata is common but not required. Another example could be an artificial intelligence and multi-agent system/program.\n\nIndividual modules are added to a creature. These modules modify the creature's behaviors and characteristics either directly, by hard coding into the simulation (leg type A increases speed and metabolism), or indirectly, through the emergent interactions between a creature's modules (leg type A moves up and down with a frequency of X, which interacts with other legs to create motion). Generally these are simulators which emphasize user creation and accessibility over mutation and evolution.\n\nOrganisms are generally constructed with pre-defined and fixed behaviors that are controlled by various parameters that mutate. That is, each organism contains a collection of numbers or other \"finite\" parameters. Each parameter controls one or several aspects of an organism in a well-defined way.\n\nThese simulations have creatures that learn and grow using neural nets or a close derivative. Emphasis is often, although not always, more on learning than on natural selection.\n\nMathematical models of complex systems are of three types: black-box (phenomenological), white-box (mechanistic, based on the first principles) and grey-box (mixtures of phenomenological and mechanistic models). In black-box models, the individual-based (mechanistic) mechanisms of a complex dynamic system remain hidden. Black-box models are completely nonmechanistic. They are phenomenological and ignore a composition and internal structure of a complex system. We cannot investigate interactions of subsystems of such a non-transparent model. A white-box model of complex dynamic system has ‘transparent walls’ and directly shows underlying mechanisms. All events at micro-, meso- and macro-levels of a dynamic system are directly visible at all stages of its white-box model evolution. In most cases mathematical modelers use the heavy black-box mathematical methods, which cannot produce mechanistic models of complex dynamic systems. Grey-box models are intermediate and combine black-box and white-box approaches. Creation of a white-box model of complex system is associated with the problem of the necessity of an a priori basic knowledge of the modeling subject. The deterministic logical cellular automata are necessary but not sufficient condition of a white-box model. The second necessary prerequisite of a white-box model is the presence of the physical ontology of the object under study. The white-box modeling represents an automatic hyper-logical inference from the first principles because it is completely based on the deterministic logic and axiomatic theory of the subject. The purpose of the white-box modeling is to derive from the basic axioms a more detailed, more concrete mechanistic knowledge about the dynamics of the object under study. The necessity to formulate an intrinsic axiomatic system of the subject before creating its white-box model distinguishes the cellular automata models of white-box type from cellular automata models based on arbitrary logical rules. If cellular automata rules have not been formulated from the first principles of the subject, then such a model may have a weak relevance to the real problem.\n\nHardware-based artificial life mainly consist of \"robots\", that is, automatically guided machines able to do tasks on their own.\n\nBiochemical-based life is studied in the field of synthetic biology. It involves e.g. the creation of synthetic DNA. The term \"wet\" is an extension of the term \"wetware\".\n\n\n\n\n\nAlife has had a controversial history. John Maynard Smith criticized certain artificial life work in 1994 as \"fact-free science\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1176500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1176500", "title": "Aurora programme", "text": "Aurora programme\n\nThe Aurora programme (sometimes called Aurora Exploration Programme, or simply Exploration Programme) is a human spaceflight programme of the European Space Agency (ESA) established in 2001. The objective is to formulate and then to implement a European long-term plan for exploration of the Solar System using robotic spacecraft and human spaceflight to investigate bodies holding promise for traces of life beyond the Earth.\n\nMember states commit to participation in the Aurora programme for five-year periods, after which they can change their level of participation or pull out entirely. In the early years the Aurora programme planned for flagship missions and arrow missions for key technology demonstrations, such as Earth re-entry vehicle/capsule and Mars aerocapture demonstrator. Although human spaceflight has remained a long-term goal of the programme, with some basic technology development in this area, the thrust has been on implementation of the ExoMars mission and preparations for an international Mars sample return mission.\n\nThe Aurora programme was a response to Europe's Strategy for space which was endorsed by European Union Council of Research and the ESA Council. Europe strategy for space had three main points including:\"explore the solar system and the Universe\", \"stimulate new technology\", and \"inspire the young people of Europe to take a greater interest in science and technology\". One of the foundational principles of the Aurora program is recognising the interdependence of technology and exploration;.\n\nThe first decade is planned to focus on robotic missions.\n\nESA describes some Aurora programme missions as \"Flagship\" missions. The first Flagship mission is ExoMars, a dual robotic mission to Mars made in cooperation with the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roskosmos). It will involve development of a Mars orbiter (ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter), a technology demonstrator descent module (Schiaparelli lander) and the ExoMars rover.\n\nFlagship missions considered for the Aurora programme include:\n\n\"Arrow missions\" are technology demonstrator missions focused on developing a certain technology needed for the Flagship missions. Approved Arrow missions so far (as of January 30, 2003):\n\nThe proposed Aurora roadmap (as of September 30, 2005. This roadmap can, and most likely will, go through revisions):\n\nThe human part of the programme has been challenged by the main ESA contributors (France, Germany and Italy), making it quite possible that the whole Aurora Programme will be refocused on robotic-only exploration of Mars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44556905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44556905", "title": "Belle Bruce Reid", "text": "Belle Bruce Reid\n\nIsabelle Bruce \"Belle\" Reid (21 December 1883 – 13 December 1945) was an Australian veterinarian. She was the first woman to qualify as a veterinarian in Australia, and established a practice in Balwyn, Victoria.\n\nReid was born in 1883 in Melbourne, Victoria, and was the youngest of ten children. Her mother was Mary Jane Clancy and her father Robert Reid, born in Scotland, was a wealthy merchant and Victorian politician. She grew up in the Melbourne suburb of Balwyn where she developed an interest in the care of animals, especially horses, and attended school at Genazzano FCJ College. She originally aspired to pursue a career in singing, but her parents considered such a pursuit inappropriate for a woman of her class, so Reid enrolled in the Melbourne Veterinary College instead in 1902.\n\nReid graduated from the Melbourne Veterinary College in 1906—she was one of five students who sat the final-year examinations and was the only one to pass. She was registered with the Veterinary Board of Victoria the same year, and was considered the first woman in the world to formally qualify as a veterinary surgeon. She was the first Australian woman to train as a veterinarian, and one of only three women to be receive a veterinary education in Australia in the first 50 years after the Victorian Veterinary Register was established in 1888.\n\nFollowing her graduation, Reid established a private veterinary practice, the Balwyn Veterinary Surgery, near her childhood home in the house where the Reid family's chauffeur had once lived. She continued to run the practice until her retirement in 1923.\n\nReid moved from Balwyn to Bundoora, another suburb of Melbourne, in 1925. She lived on a farm that she called \"Blossom Park\" on an estate which she and her sister had purchased in 1911. There she bred horses, cattle and dogs, and constructed stables and a dairy to accommodate them. She regularly exhibited her animals at shows run by the Royal Agricultural Society of Victoria. She died from coronary thrombosis on 13 December 1945 in Canterbury, Victoria.\n\nIn 1996, Reid was inducted into the National Pioneer Women's Hall of Fame in Alice Springs. In 2006, the centenary of her registration as a veterinary practitioner, the University of Melbourne Faculty of Veterinary and Agricultural Sciences—which succeeded the Melbourne Veterinary College in 1908—awarded the Belle Bruce Reid Medal to 100 notable women veterinarians.\n"}
{"id": "1027406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1027406", "title": "Big Van Vader", "text": "Big Van Vader\n\nLeon Allen White (May 14, 1955 – June 18, 2018), better known by his ring names Big Van Vader or simply Vader, was an American professional wrestler and professional football player. He performed for New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW), World Championship Wrestling (WCW), the World Wrestling Federation (WWF), and All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW) during the 1990s and 2000s. White, who gained legendary status in Japan, is widely regarded as one of the greatest superheavyweight wrestlers ever.\n\nWhite performed as a monstrous wrestler capable of aerial maneuvers such as the Vadersault, which was voted as the \"Best Wrestling Maneuver\" for 1993 by \"Wrestling Observer\" readers. Among other accolades in WCW and Japan, he won the IWGP Heavyweight Championship and the WCW World Heavyweight Championship three times each, the Triple Crown Heavyweight Championship twice, the WCW United States Heavyweight Championship once, and won the battle royal main event of the 1993 Battlebowl pay-per-view. Vader was inducted into the Wrestling Observer Newsletter Hall of Fame in 1996.\n\nWhite was a nationally ranked center who was recruited by forty colleges. He played offensive line at the University of Colorado, where he was a second-team All-American for the Buffaloes in 1977. He earned a business administration degree. In the 1978 NFL Draft, White was drafted as a center by the Los Angeles Rams with the 24th pick of the 3rd Round (80th overall). During White's first season, he was put on the injured reserve list, but in his second season, he played in Super Bowl XIV against the Pittsburgh Steelers. He was forced to retire after only a couple of seasons due to a ruptured patella.\n\nWhile working out at a gym, White was spotted by a man who remembered him from his college football days who suggested he look into professional wrestling. Trained by Brad Rheingans, White got his first national exposure in the American Wrestling Association (AWA). He went by the moniker Baby Bull, which was later changed to Bull Power. White honed his skills during this time, and his ring work improved significantly to the point that he was booked in a match with Stan Hansen for the AWA World Heavyweight Championship, where he was defeated.\n\nIn May 1986, White went to Europe to compete for Otto Wanz and his promotion, Catch Wrestling Association, touring Austria and Germany, using the name Bull Power. That summer, he took part in the three-day tournament for the Vienna Catch Cup, in Austria. He made it to the finals, before losing to Klaus Wallas. On March 22, 1987, he won his first championship, the CWA World Heavyweight Championship, defeating Otto Wanz in Denver, Colorado, ending Wanz's reign of nearly nine years in its only title change in the United States. He held onto the title for nearly four months, before losing to back to Wanz on July 11 in Graz, Austria. In December 1987, he participated in his second tournament, the Bremen Catch Cup, in Germany. He defeated Rambo in the finals, to win his first tournament.\n\nIn 1989, Bull Power returned to the CWA, to challenge Otto Wanz for the CWA World Heavyweight Championship. On August 21 in Vienna, Austria, he defeated Wanz to win his second CWA World title. He held onto the title for a little over four months before losing it back to Wanz in Bremen, Germany, on December 22. A year later, Otto Wanz retired and the CWA World title was held up. Bull Power defeated Rambo to win the vacant title for the third and final time. He held to the title for over six months, before losing it to Rambo in Graz, Austria on July 6, 1991. Five months later, he defeated Tatsumi Fujinami to become the inaugural CWA Intercontinental Heavyweight Champion. He vacated the title in 1992 after signing with World Championship Wrestling.\n\nAlthough originally signed to All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW), AJPW owner Giant Baba traded White's contract over to New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW) in 1987 after consideration. Upon joining NJPW, White was given the ring name Big Van Vader and began to wear a black wrestling mask. His new identity was based on a strong warrior of the same name from Japanese folklore. He was introduced as the crown jewel of the Takeshi Puroresu Gundan stable that was managed by Takeshi Kitano. Vader challenged Antonio Inoki, who had already defeated Riki Choshu, and defeated the worn-down Inoki. The pro-Inoki audience rioted, resulting in NJPW being banned from the Sumo Hall, its home arena. The ban remained in effect until 1989, when NJPW did their first show back in Sumo Hall on February 22.\n\nAfter winning the final match of an eight-man tournament against Shinya Hashimoto, Vader was declared the new IWGP Heavyweight Champion. He was the first gaijin (non-Japanese) wrestler to hold the title. On May 25, one month after being crowned champion, Vader lost the title to Russian suplex master Salman Hashimikov. Hashimikov dropped the title to Vader's old rival, Riki Choshu, on July 12. On August 10, Vader defeated Choshu to become a two-time IWGP Heavyweight Champion.\n\nOn February 10, 1990, Vader faced Stan Hansen at an AJPW versus NJPW supercard show. Before Vader entered the ring, Hansen accidentally broke Vader's nose with the bullrope Hansen carried to the ring for his matches. During an exchange of stiff punches, Hansen unintentionally poked Vader's left eye with his thumb during their brawl, which caused the eye to pop out of its socket. After removing his mask, pushing the eye back into its socket and holding it in place with his eyelid, Vader continued wrestling Hansen until the match was rendered a no contest. As a result of the injury, Vader required a metal plate to be surgically placed under his eye. Vader's success garnered the attention of World Championship Wrestling (WCW), who convinced him to work for them while still the IWGP Heavyweight Champion and an active competitor in NJPW.\n\nIn January 1991, Vader defeated Tatsumi Fujinami to earn himself a third IWGP Heavyweight Title reign. This reign was short-lived however, as Vader lost the title back to Fujinami on March 4. At this point, WCW and NJPW were reaching a tentative working agreement. This benefited Vader, as he could now have his schedule coordinated far more easily. This helped alleviate his difficulty in gaining notoriety in WCW, as his previously infrequent appearances did not allow the audience to see him very often.\n\nOn March 1, 1992, he and Bam Bam Bigelow began teaming as \"Big, Bad, and Dangerous\". The duo went on to win the IWGP Tag Team Championship from Hiroshi Hase and Keiji Mutoh. In May, Vader faced Mutoh, now known as The Great Muta, one on one and suffered a legitimate knee injury. This injury was a factor in he and Bigelow losing the title to the WCW World Tag Team Champions, The Steiner Brothers after a near four-month reign. This also marked a decrease in his NJPW appearances, as Vader began to focus almost entirely on WCW and the WCW World Heavyweight Championship.\n\nIn November 1989, White, as Big Van Vader, made his debut in Mexico for Universal Wrestling Association. On November 12, he defeated El Canek to win the UWA World Heavyweight Championship. Five days later, he would make a couple shows for Empresa Mexicana de Lucha Libre in trios matches, teaming with Fabuloso Blondy. He would hold onto the UWA World title for over a year, before losing it back to Canek on December 9.\n\nVader was originally signed with World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in 1990, but was only used sparingly until 1991. Vader's first match in WCW took place on July 7, 1990 at The Great American Bash, where he defeated Tom Zenk in a little over two minutes. Seven months later, he returned for WrestleWar, where he battled Stan Hansen to a double disqualification. Eight months later, he returned at Halloween Havoc and took part in the Chamber of Horrors match, in which Vader's team lost due to Abdullah the Butcher being electrocuted by their partner, Cactus Jack. Two months later, he would take part of Starrcade's Lethal Lottery, where he teamed with Mr. Hughes and defeated Rick Steiner and The Nightstalker (who was subbing for an injured Diamond Studd) to advance to the Battlebowl battle royal, in which he was eliminated.\n\nWhen he began working for WCW full-time, Vader was paired with a manager, Harley Race, and received a shot at Sting's World Heavyweight Championship on April 12, 1992, and was disqualified. Sting suffered a pair of cracked ribs and a ruptured spleen in the match after taking a \"Vader Bomb\" from Vader, though he continued to compete infrequently while recuperating. Vader received a rematch with Sting on July 12 at The Great American Bash, which he won to become the new WCW World Heavyweight Champion. His reign was short-lived, as he re-injured his knee, forcing him to lose the title three weeks later to Ron Simmons, who substituted for Sting after he was attacked by Jake Roberts earlier that night. Vader was out of action after Clash of the Champions in September as he underwent knee surgery. Upon his return at Halloween Havoc, Vader sent Nikita Koloff into retirement and legitimately broke the back of jobber Joe Thurman, paralyzing him for a few hours. At Starrcade, Vader lost to Sting in the finals of the King of Cable tournament. Two days later, Vader defeated Simmons by taking advantage of a shoulder injury of Simmons's to regain the World Heavyweight Championship. On March 11, 1993, Vader lost the WCW World Heavyweight Championship to Sting but regained it six days later.\n\nUpon returning to WCW, Cactus Jack defeated Vader via countout on the April 17 episode of \"Saturday Night\". During the match, Jack suffered a broken nose and needed 27 stitches on his face. The match was heavily edited for broadcast, as WCW did not wish to show the severe bleeding. In a rematch on April 24, Vader powerbombed Jack onto the concrete floor outside the ring, resulting in Jack suffering a concussion and temporary loss of feeling in his left hand and leg. In the meantime, Vader began to feud with a new arrival to WCW, Davey Boy Smith. They met at Slamboree in May for the World Heavyweight Championship. Vader lost by disqualification when he hit Smith with a chair, though he retained the title. Vader and Sid Vicious then formed a partnership and called themselves The Masters of the Powerbomb. They were defeated by Smith and his new partner, Sting, at Beach Blast in July. Following this, Vader and Cactus Jack's feud was restarted as Jack was cleared to return for Halloween Havoc to face Vader in a Texas Death match. Vader won when Harley Race stunned Jack with a cattle prod that kept him down for a ten count. On March 16, 1994, Foley lost his right ear in a match with Vader in Munich, Germany; Foley's head became trapped in the ropes, which were under excessive tension, causing his ear to be torn off.\n\nVader was originally scheduled to face Sid Vicious at Starrcade. The real-life dismissal of Vicious after Arn Anderson stabbed him in England, however, forced WCW to find a quick replacement. Executive producer Eric Bischoff placed Ric Flair in the match, which was scheduled in Flair's hometown of Charlotte, North Carolina. In the storyline, Vader did not take Flair seriously until he agreed to put his career on the line against Vader's title. Vader dominated the match, but Flair capitalized on failed interference by Race and Vader's weakened knees to win the match with a rollup and end Vader's third World Heavyweight Championship reign.\n\nVader continued to feud with Flair until SuperBrawl IV, when Flair once again defeated Vader, this time in a \"Thundercage\" match, with the help of the special guest referee The Boss. As a result, Vader began feuding with Boss, whom he defeated at Spring Stampede. He also faced Sting at Slamboree for the vacant International World Heavyweight Championship. Sting requested the match rather than be awarded the title after an injury to his original opponent, Rick Rude, and defeated Vader. At Bash at the Beach, he defeated the former Boss, now known as The Guardian Angel by disqualification. Two months later at Fall Brawl, he defeated Angel and Sting in a triangle match to determine the number one contender for the WCW World Heavyweight Championship, now held by Hulk Hogan. A month later at Halloween Havoc, he defeated the Guardian Angel in a rematch. At Clash of the Champions XXIX, Vader defeated Dustin Rhodes and earned the opportunity to face the United States Heavyweight Champion Jim Duggan at Starrcade, where Vader defeated Duggan with the aid of Duggan's 2x4 to win the United States Heavyweight Championship.\n\nIn January 1995, Vader had to end his alliance with Harley Race, because in real life, Race was involved in an automobile crash and Race left WCW. Vader confronted the World Heavyweight Champion Hulk Hogan, and informed him that he could not avoid the monster. The two met at SuperBrawl V, with Vader managing to kick out of Hogan's leg drop after a count of one. The referee was knocked out before Vader hit the \"Vader Bomb\" on Hogan. Ric Flair ran to the ring, made the three count, and attacked Hogan, resulting in Vader's disqualification. A rematch was signed, a strap match for the inaugural Uncensored pay-per-view. Flair once again intervened (this time in drag to avoid revealing his presence) and managed to cost Vader the match by getting himself carried by Hogan as he touched all four turnbuckle pads. Vader was stripped of the United States Heavyweight Championship on April 23, 1995 for multiple violent offenses. However, Vader gained another opportunity to win the World Heavyweight Championship from Hogan at Bash at the Beach in a Steel Cage match. He conspired with Kevin Sullivan and the Dungeon of Doom to gain a psychological edge before the encounter, which Vader lost when Hogan escaped the cage. He then restarted his feud with Flair, based on his frustration at Flair's constant interference in his title matches and Flair's annoyance at his inability to defeat Hogan. At Clash of the Champions XXXI, Vader defeated Flair and Arn Anderson in a 2-on-1 handicap match. Following the event, Hogan grew interested in Vader and asked for his assistance in his developing feud with the Dungeon of Doom by asking him to join him, Randy Savage, and Sting for WarGames. Vader complied but the storyline never developed as, shortly after, Vader was fired from WCW after he was involved in a locker room brawl with Paul Orndorff.\n\nThe title video for the September 4 debut edition of \"Monday Nitro\" featured multiple shots of Vader (one of four wrestlers featured, along with Hogan, Sting and Savage), who parted ways with WCW shortly thereafter. Absent from the first episode, he had been scheduled to face Hogan for the WCW World Heavyweight Championship on the September 11 episode, but was replaced by Lex Luger, who issued a challenge to Hogan on the debut show.\n\nIn late February 1993, White signed an eight-date agreement with the Union of Wrestling Forces International (UWFi), where he competed as Super Vader due to legal issues concerning the Big Van Vader name. By September 1993, he was simply known as Vader in the United States. He worked with UWFi for over two years, winning the Best of the World Tournament, which started April 3 and ended August 18, 1994. Vader first defeated Salman Hashimikov and then Masahito Kakihara in the quarterfinals. In the semifinals, Vader defeated Kiyoshi Tamura, and beat Nobuhiko Takada in the finals to win the tournament and the UWFi World Title. He would hold onto the title for over eight months, before losing the title to Takada on April 20, 1995. He left shortly thereafter.\n\nAt Wrestling World on January 4, Vader had his first post-WCW match, facing the man whose four-year winning streak Vader had ended over eight years ago, Antonio Inoki. Inoki was over 50 years old at the time, but the match lasted nearly fourteen minutes before Inoki won the match.\n\nIn the weeks leading up to the Royal Rumble, Vader's debut was heavily hyped on television as he was billed as \"The Man They Call Vader\" (though Vince McMahon had originally wanted to rename him \"The Mastodon\"). He made his first World Wrestling Federation (WWF) appearance as a participant in the Royal Rumble match, as he entered at number 13 and eliminated Jake Roberts, Doug Gilbert, one member of the Squat Team, and Savio Vega; he also fought with his ally Yokozuna, but Vader was eliminated by Shawn Michaels before he re-entered the ring and started assaulting everyone, including Michaels. Vader defeated Vega on the following \"Monday Night Raw\", before assaulting WWF officials and eventually, WWF President Gorilla Monsoon demanded that Vader cease his attacks, and received a Vader Bomb for his efforts. As a result, Vader was suspended for his actions, though in reality he needed time off for shoulder surgery.\n\nJim Cornette campaigned for Vader's reinstatement, and by the time Vader returned, Yokozuna had left Cornette's management. At February's In Your House 6, Vader appeared during Yokozuna's match against The British Bulldog, and as Yokozuna was about to pin The Bulldog, Vader attacked him, handcuffed him, and delivered a severe beating. This led to what was supposed to be a one-on-one encounter between Vader and Yokozuna at WrestleMania XII. However, the match became a six-man tag team match pitting Vader, Owen Hart, and The British Bulldog against Yokozuna, Ahmed Johnson, and Jake Roberts, with the stipulation that if Yokozuna's team won the match, he would have five minutes alone with Cornette in the ring; this never occurred as Vader's team won the match when Vader pinned Roberts.\n\nVader then attacked the WWF Champion Shawn Michaels after one of Michaels' matches, which earned him a spot in a six-man tag team match at , where Vader, Owen Hart, and The British Bulldog teamed up against Michaels, Ahmed Johnson, and Sycho Sid; Vader pinned Michaels to win the match for his team. Vader faced Michaels again at SummerSlam, where Vader won by countout; Cornette, however, realized that the title could not change hands through a countout and got the match restarted, but this time, Michaels used Cornette's tennis racket and was disqualified, so again, Cornette managed to get the match started over, which Michaels won by pinfall.\n\nFollowing his feud with Michaels, Vader faced off against The Undertaker in a singles match at the Royal Rumble, and during the match, The Undertaker's former manager, Paul Bearer, attacked him and helped Vader win; Bearer then became Vader's manager. Both Vader and Undertaker went on to compete in the Royal Rumble match, during which Stone Cold Steve Austin was eliminated by Bret Hart; however, the referees did not see this, as they were attending to Terry Funk and Mankind on the floor, allowing Austin to sneak back into the ring and eliminate both Vader and Undertaker, then Bret Hart, who was busy eliminating Fake Diesel, and win the Royal Rumble. As a result of this, Vader and the other men eliminated by Austin, Bret Hart and The Undertaker, were put into the four-way main event of February's for the WWF Championship, in which Vader, after bleeding profusely, was eliminated by The Undertaker. Bearer then persuaded his two proteges, Vader and Mankind, to go after the WWF Tag Team Championship, despite the fact that the two men often brawled between themselves. They failed in their bid to win the tag team gold at WrestleMania 13.\n\nVader again received an opportunity to face The Undertaker, this time for the WWF Championship at , but lost. On the following night's \"Raw is War\", Vader wrestled The Patriot, who won the match and then went after Bret Hart, who came to ringside during the match; Vader attacked The Patriot, and then brought him back into the ring, where he went for the Vader Bomb, but Hart came into the ring and laid the Canadian flag over The Patriot, so Vader got down, picked up the Canadian flag, broke it, and started a brawl with Hart. This turned Vader face and served to bring Vader into the USA vs. Canada feud, which culminated at Survivor Series, where Vader was the leader of Team USA, with Goldust, Marc Mero, and Steve Blackman (replacing the injured Patriot) as they faced Team Canada, composed of The British Bulldog, Jim Neidhart, Doug Furnas, and Phil LaFon; during the match, Goldust walked out on his team and Team USA lost the match after The Bulldog pinned Vader after hitting him with the ring bell. Goldust and Vader feuded throughout the fall and finally faced off at the Royal Rumble, in a match which Vader won. Goldust eliminated Vader from the Royal Rumble match later that night (Vader entered at number 30).\n\nFollowing his feud with Goldust, Vader began feuding with Kane, and both faced off for the first time at , where Vader lost after a chokeslam and a Tombstone Piledriver before Kane subsequently attacked him with a large steel wrench, resulting in Vader being taken away on a stretcher and was kept off of television for a while. Two months later, at , Vader returned during Kane's Inferno match against The Undertaker; as Kane was attempting to leave the match, Vader appeared and fought him back to the ring to continue the match, which Kane lost. Vader and Kane had a rematch at in a Mask vs. Mask match, in which Vader attempted to use a wrench on Kane like the one used on him months before, but Kane managed to recover and defeat Vader, costing him his mask in the process. In a post-match interview with Michael Cole, Vader said, \"I made the biggest mistake of my life. Maybe Vader time is over. I'm a piece of shit. A big fat piece of shit\".\n\nSubsequently, Vader had a series of losses and was reduced to the status of a jobber to the stars, having a feud with Mark Henry which Vader lost. After considering retirement, Vader instead negotiated his own release from the WWF so he could once again wrestle in Japan. His final WWF pay-per-view match was a lost to Bradshaw at in a No Holds Barred match. He lost to Edge on the October 11 episode of \"Sunday Night Heat\" in his final televised WWF match. His last match in a WWF ring was on October 25 at a Madison Square Garden house show in a triple threat match with Mankind and Ken Shamrock, which Vader lost after he tapped out to Shamrock's ankle lock. In a shoot interview, Jim Cornette said part of the reason that Vader's WWF run was not as successful as what was hoped was due to the failure to properly book Vader.\n\nAfter leaving the WWF, Vader went to AJPW. He formed a team with his old foe Stan Hansen, with whom he made it to the finals of the 1998 World's Strongest Tag Determination League, where they were defeated by Kenta Kobashi and Jun Akiyama. At the beginning of 1999, he became the number one contender to the Triple Crown by defeating Kobashi. He then won the (vacant) Triple Crown Title on March 6, 1999 by defeating Akira Taue. He then won the 1999 Champion Carnival. After Vader lost the Triple Crown to Misawa on May 2, he regained it on October 31. He then again lost it to Kobashi and took some time off.\n\nAfter returning from his hiatus, Vader joined the new Japanese promotion Pro Wrestling Noah, where he won the GHC Tag Team Championship with 2 Cold Scorpio.\n\nOn February 19, 2003, Vader appeared in NWA Total Nonstop Action (NWA-TNA) to defend Dusty Rhodes, who was fighting with The Harris Brothers. He and Dusty won a tag team match the next week against the Harris Brothers via disqualification. He then began a feud with Nikita Koloff, whose career Vader ended long ago. However, TNA and Vader soon parted ways.\n\nOn June 24, 2015, Vader returned to Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) television on \"Impact Wrestling\" for a singles match against Bram. Vader won the match via disqualification after Bram used a ring wrench to hit Vader in the head. Matt Morgan then entered the ring to save Vader and take out Bram.\n\nVader returned to World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) on the October 31, 2005 episode of \"Raw\" when Jonathan Coachman announced that Vader and Goldust would be in his corner for his street fight against Stone Cold Steve Austin the next night at Taboo Tuesday. When Austin decided not to participate, he was replaced by Batista. Vader and Goldust interfered in the match on Coachman's behalf and received spinebusters for their efforts.\nOn the June 11, 2012 episode of \"Raw\", Vader defeated Heath Slater in a singles match. On July 23 on the 1000th episode of \"Raw\", Vader and several other legends prevented Slater from leaving in his match against Lita, which she won.\n\nIn April 2016, Vader made a one-night appearance at the 2016 WWE Hall of Fame ceremony to induct Stan Hansen into the WWE Hall of Fame.\n\nVader returned to Japan, wrestling at a NJPW Wrestle Land show. He also worked in the independent circuit as Big Van Vader, including a tag match against Samoa Joe and Dan Maff in Jersey All Pro Wrestling with Mike Awesome as his tag team partner. On May 12, 2007, Vader faced Brutus Beefcake at Spartan Slamfest, a World Wrestling Coalition charity show. The match was held at the Kingston Armory in Kingston, Pennsylvania. After wrestling his last match in 2007, White began working as a high school football coach.\n\nOn April 29, 2010, White made a one-night return to wrestling under his Vader ring name at the event Vader Time 5 Return of the Emperor. At the event, he teamed with his son Jesse and former tag team partner Scorpio to successfully defeat Makoto Hashi, Tamon Honda and Tatsumi Fujinami in the main event.\n\nVader made his in-ring return to the United States on January 28, 2012. He defeated Arik Royal and Adam Page in a handicap match at WrestleReunion: Los Angeles. On May 11, 2012 at Resistance Pro's event A Small Deadly Space, Vader defeated Jay Bradley.\n\nOn August 12, 2016, Vader made a special guest appearance for Revolution Pro Wrestling (RevPro), defeating Will Ospreay. Two days later, he made an appearance in Colchester, England for the XWA Wrestling (XWA) promotion, where he defeated \"Savvy\" Sid Scala.\n\nOn April 20, 2017, Vader made an appearance in Japan at Korakuen Hall as part of the Dradition show to celebrate the 45th anniversary of the debut of Tatsumi Fujinami. Following a six-man tag team match, Vader collapsed due to being dropped on his head during the match, but he was able to walk backstage under his own power and he remained in Japan as he was scheduled to work two more shows in Fukuoka and Osaka. On April 22, Vader, Takuma Sano, and Yoshiaki Fujiwara lost a six man tag team match to Koji Kanemoto, Shiro Koshinaka and Tatsumi Fujinami. On April 23, Vader, Riki Choshu, and Tatsumi Fujinami defeated Shiro Koshinaka, Takuma Sano, and Yoshiaki Fujiwara.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 2011 natural disasters in Japan, Vader and his son Jesse wrestled on special tribute cards for All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW) and Pro Wrestling Zero1. On December 7, 2012, Vader returned to AAJPW, teaming with Keiji Mutoh and Kenso to defeat Bambi Killer, Franz Dynamite and Mazada in a six-man tag team match.\n\n\n\nThe \"Fatal Fury\" character Raiden, also known as \"Big Bear\", is based on Vader's appearance in Japan. The character Alexander the Grater from \"Saturday Night Slam Masters\" bears a resemblance to Vader. Alexander also wears a mask very similar to the mastodon mask Vader would wear during ring entrances in the 1980s and early 1990s. Vader himself appears as a playable character in the WCW video games \"WCW Wrestling\", \"\", and \"WCW SuperBrawl Wrestling\", the WWE video game \"WWF In Your House\", and as a downloadable or unlockable legend in \"WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2009\", \"WWE '12\", \"WWE '13\", \"WWE 2K16\", \"WWE 2K17\", \"WWE 2K18\" and \"WWE 2K19\". As well as being featured officially and unofficially in numerous Japanese wrestling games such as the Fire Pro Wrestling series, Virtual Pro Wrestling, King of Colosseum (he is a preset model in King of Colosseum II's EDIT mode), as well as the latter two editions of the All Star Pro-Wrestling series, and Wrestle Kingdom 2 where he is also featured in the cover art.\n\nWhite was born in Lynwood, California, and grew up in Compton, California. He was raised with his sister in a rough area of Los Angeles known as South Central, where the siblings experienced a home break-in. His father was a US Marine. His father also was an underwater welder for the US Navy and invented an automobile hoist, which made the family wealthier and let them move to a safer neighborhood in Bell, where White attended Bell High School. In high school, he competed in shot put on the track and field team, wrestled, and played football.\nWhile in Kuwait during a WWF tour in April 1997, Vader appeared on the television program \"Good Morning Kuwait\" along with The Undertaker, who was WWF World Heavyweight Champion at that time. During the interview, the host asked Taker and Vader if wrestling was fake. In response, Vader flipped over the table they were sitting at and grabbed the host by the tie, asking him if it seemed fake while using foul language. In December, White was fined $164 for this incident.\n\nWhite's son, Jesse White, was born April 19, 1986. In July 2009, White began training him to become a professional wrestler in Japan. He originally committed to the University of Oklahoma and was touted for the National Football League, but was taken out with a hip injury. In April 2011, he signed a developmental contract with WWE, and used the name Jake Carter, until September 16, 2013, when he was fired.\n\nWhite was a born again Christian.\n\nPartially due to years of alcohol abuse and travel, White and his wife divorced in 2007, inspiring him to quit drinking and curtail his travel.\nWhite had double knee replacement surgery, resulting in wound infection, and he was bedridden for six months. Soon after recovering, he passed out during a plane trip to Japan for an autograph session. He was in a coma for 33 days, during which he lost 112 pounds.\n\nIn November 2016, White was involved in a rollover car accident that left him unconscious for 35 minutes. Being diagnosed with congestive heart failure, he consulted two heart doctors, who told him he had two years to live. He later received another opinion that was more optimistic. In a March 2017 interview on the \"Two Man Power Trip of Wrestling\" podcast, White explained that he regretted tweeting about his diagnosis. He stated that he would continue to wrestle and also said that if the tests were proven to be true, he would like to die in the ring.\n\nIn May 2018, White went in for heart surgery followed by another to treat an arrhythmia. White died on June 18 after a month-long hospitalization for pneumonia. He was 63 years old. In the months before his death, White was frequently visited and supported by fellow wrestler Sting.\n\nWhite was considered one of the greatest super-heavyweight professional wrestlers of all time. He used his size and weight as part of his moves making them look much more painful than when performed by someone half his size. For example, his finishing move, called the Vader Bomb, which is a corner slingshot splash, when he would bounce off the middle rope and land on a prone opponent. Also, despite weighing , he was able to perform the \"Vader Sault\", a moonsault or a backward somersault jump off the top rope, a move that requires a lot of agility and is usually performed by cruiserweight/junior heavyweight wrestlers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50033811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50033811", "title": "Biotechnology risk", "text": "Biotechnology risk\n\nBiotechnology risk is a form of existential risk that could come from biological sources, such as genetically engineered biological agents. These can come either intentionally (in the form of bioterrorism/biological weapons) or unintentionally (through the accidental release of engineerer viruses). A chapter in biotechnology and biosecurity was published in Nick Bostrom's \"Global Catastrophic Risks\", which covered risks such as viral agents. Since then, new technologies like CRISPR and gene drives have been introduced.\n\nWhile the ability to deliberately engineer pathogens has been constrained to high-end labs run by top researchers, the technology to achieve this (and other astonishing feats of bioengineering) is rapidly becoming cheaper and more widespread. Such examples include the diminishing cost of sequencing the human genome (from $10M USD to $1000), the accumulation of large datasets of genetic information, the discovery of gene drives, and the discovery of CRISPR.\n\nPathogens may be intentionally or unintentionally genetically modified to change their characteristics, including virulence or toxicity. When intentional, these mutations can serve to adapt the pathogen to a laboratory setting, understand the mechanism of transmission or pathogenesis, or in the development of therapeutics. Such mutations have also been used in the development of biological weapons, and dual-use risk continues to be a concern in the research of pathogens. The greatest concern is frequently associated with gain of function mutations, which confer novel or increased functionality, and the risk of their release.\n\nA group of Australian researchers unintentionally changed characteristics of the mousepox virus while trying to develop a virus to sterilize rodents as a means of biological pest control. The modified virus became highly lethal even in vaccinated and naturally resistant mice.\n\nIn 2011, two laboratories published reports of mutational screens of avian influenza viruses, identifying variant which become transmissible through the air between ferrets. These viruses seem to overcome an obstacle which limits the global impact of natural H5N1. In 2012, scientists further screened point mutations of the H5N1 virus genome to identify mutations which allowed airborne spread. While the stated goal of this research was to improve surveillance and prepare for influenza viruses which are of particular risk in causing a pandemic, there was significant concern that the laboratory strains themselves could escape. Marc Lipsitch and Alison P. Galvani coauthored a paper in PLoS Medicine arguing that experiments in which scientists manipulate bird influenza viruses to make them transmissible in mammals deserve more intense scrutiny as to whether or not their risks outweigh their benefits. Lipsitch also described influenza as the most frightening \"potential pandemic pathogen\".\n\nIn 2014, the United States instituted a moratorium on gain of function research into influenza, MERS, and SARS. This was in response to the particular risks these airborne pathogens pose. However, many scientists opposed the moratorium, arguing that this limited their ability to develop antiviral therapies. The scientists argued gain of function mutations were necessary, such as adapting MERS to laboratory mice so it could be studied.\n\nThe National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity also has instituted rules for research proposals using gain of function research of concern. The rules outline how experiments to be evaluated for risks, safety measures, and potential benefits; prior to funding.\n\nIn order to limit access to minimize the risk of easy access to genetic material from pathogens, including viruses, the members of the International Gene Synthesis Consortium screen orders for regulated pathogen and other dangerous sequences. Orders for pathogenic or dangerous DNA are verified for customer identity, barring customers on governmental watch lists, and only to institutions \"demonstrably engaged in legitimate research\".\n\nFollowing surprisingly fast advances in CRISPR editing, an international summit proclaimed in December 2015 that it was \"irresponsible\" to proceed with human gene editing until issues in safety and efficacy were addressed. One of the mechanisms that CRISPR can cause existential risk is through gene drives, which are said to have potential to \"revolutionize\" ecosystem management. Gene drives are a novel technology that have potential to make genes spread through wild populations like wildfire. They have the potential to quickly spread resistance genes against malaria in order to rebuff the malaria parasite P. falciparum. These gene drives were originally engineered in January 2015 by Ethan Bier and Valentino Gatz – this editing was spurred by the discovery of CRISPR-Cas9. In late 2015, DARPA started to study approaches that could halt gene drives if they went out of control and threatened biological species.\n\n"}
{"id": "54088179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54088179", "title": "Celestine Ukwu", "text": "Celestine Ukwu\n\nCelestine Ukwu (1940–1977) was an Igbo highlife musician best known for his hit songs \"Ije Enu\", \"Igede\" and \"Money Palava\". Described as a \"prolific and outstanding composer\" by music critic Benson Idonije of \"Radio Nigeria Two\", Ukwu's works has been featured on various world music compilations including \"The Rough Guide to Highlife\" and \"The Rough Guide to Psychedelic Africa\".\n\nUkwu was born in Enugu, Enugu State, Nigeria to music-oriented parents. His father was a local performer of the igede, ikpa and ode genres of Igbo music while his mother was lead singer in a women's musical group. At a young age, he began learning how to read music and play the harmonium with the help of his uncle. Upon completing his primary school education, he went to teacher training school for two years but dropped out in order to pursue music as a career. He went on to join Mike Ejeagha's group \"Paradise Rhythm Orchestra\" in 1962 as a vocalist and maraca player before he left to join Mr. Picolo's band who were touring the Democratic Republic of the Congo at the time. He returned to Nigeria to form his own band known as Celestine Ukwu & His Music Royals of Nigeria which was later disbanded in 1967 following the outbreak of the Nigerian Civil War. After the war, Ukwu formed another group, Celestine Ukwu & His Philosophers National; with whom he released \"Igede Fantasia\" which did well commercially.\n\nHis songs were primarily composed in Igbo language with a bit of Efik. In a 1986 edition of \"Thisweek\", a writer once wrote that his songs \"gave a food for thought to its listeners\".\n\nHe died in an auto-crash on May 7, 1977.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "399078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=399078", "title": "David Frost", "text": "David Frost\n\nSir David Paradine Frost (7 April 1939 – 31 August 2013) was an English television host, media personality, journalist, comedian, and writer.\n\nAfter graduating from the University of Cambridge, Frost rose to prominence in the United Kingdom when he was chosen to host the satirical programme \"That Was the Week That Was\" in 1962. His success on this show led to work as a host on U.S. television. He became known for his television interviews with senior political figures, among them the Nixon Interviews with former U.S. President Richard Nixon in 1977, which were adapted into a stage play and film.\n\nFrost was one of the \"Famous Five\" who was behind the launch of ITV breakfast station TV-am in 1983. For the BBC, he hosted the Sunday morning interview programme \"Breakfast with Frost\" from 1993 to 2005. He spent two decades as host of \"Through the Keyhole\". From 2006 to 2012 he hosted the weekly programme \"Frost Over the World\" on Al Jazeera English and from 2012, the weekly programme \"The Frost Interview\".\n\nFrost died on 31 August 2013, aged 74, on board the cruise ship , on which he had been engaged as a speaker. In March 2014, his memorial stone was unveiled in Poets' Corner, Westminster Abbey for his contribution to British culture.\n\nDavid Paradine Frost was born in Tenterden, Kent, on 7 April 1939, the son of a Methodist minister of Huguenot descent, the Rev. Wilfred John \"W. J.\" Paradine Frost, and his wife, Mona (Aldrich); he had two elder sisters. While living in Gillingham, Kent, he was taught in the Bible class of the Sunday school at his father's church (Byron Road Methodist) by David Gilmore Harvey, and subsequently started training as a Methodist local preacher, which he did not complete.\n\nFrost attended Barnsole Road Primary School in Gillingham, St Hugh's School, Woodhall Spa, Gillingham Grammar School and finally – while residing in Raunds – Wellingborough Grammar School. Throughout his school years he was an avid football and cricket player, and was offered a contract with Nottingham Forest F.C. For two years before going to university he was a lay preacher following his witnessing of an event presided over by the Christian evangelist Billy Graham.\n\nFrost studied at the University of Cambridge's Gonville & Caius College, from 1958, graduating with a Third in English. He was editor of both the university's student paper, \"Varsity\", and the literary magazine \"Granta\". He was also secretary of the Footlights Drama Society, which included actors such as Peter Cook and John Bird. During this period, Frost appeared on television for the first time in an edition of Anglia Television's \"Town And Gown\", performing several comic characters. \"The first time I stepped into a television studio\", he once remembered, \"it felt like home. It didn't scare me. Talking to the camera seemed the most natural thing in the world.\"\n\nAccording to some accounts, Frost was the victim of snobbery from the group with which he associated at Cambridge, which has been confirmed by Barry Humphries. Christopher Booker, while asserting that Frost's one defining characteristic was ambition, commented that he was impossible to dislike. According to the satirist John Wells, the Old Etonian actor Jonathan Cecil congratulated Frost around this time for \"that wonderfully silly voice\" he used while performing, but then discovered that it was Frost's real voice.\n\nAfter leaving university, Frost became a trainee at Associated-Rediffusion. Meanwhile, having already gained an agent, Frost performed in cabaret at the Blue Angel nightclub in Berkeley Square, London during the evenings.\n\nFrost was chosen by writer and producer Ned Sherrin to host the satirical programme \"That Was the Week That Was\", alias \"TW3\" after Frost's flatmate John Bird suggested Sherrin should see his act at The Blue Angel. The series, which ran for less than 18 months during 1962–63, was part of the satire boom in early 1960s Britain and became a popular programme.\n\nThe involvement of Frost in \"TW3\" led to an intensification of the rivalry with Peter Cook who accused him of stealing material and dubbed Frost \"the bubonic plagiarist\". The new satirical magazine \"Private Eye\" also mocked him at this time. Frost visited the U.S. during the break between the two series of \"TW3\" in the summer of 1963 and stayed with the producer of the New York City production of \"Beyond The Fringe\". Frost was unable to swim, but still jumped into the pool, and nearly drowned until he was saved by Peter Cook. At the memorial service for Cook in 1995, Alan Bennett recalled that rescuing Frost was the one regret Cook frequently expressed.\n\nFor the first three editions of the second series in 1963, the BBC attempted to limit the team by scheduling repeats of \"The Third Man\" television series after the programme, thus preventing overruns. Frost took to reading synopses of the episodes at the end of the programme as a means of sabotage. After the BBC's Director General Hugh Greene instructed that the repeats should be abandoned, \"TW3\" returned to being open-ended. More sombrely, on 23 November 1963, a tribute to the assassinated President John F. Kennedy, an event which had occurred the previous day, formed an entire edition of \"That Was the Week That Was\".\n\nAn American version of \"TW3\" ran after the original British series had ended. Following a pilot episode on 10 November 1963, the 30-minute US series, also featuring Frost, ran on NBC from 10 January 1964 to May 1965. In 1985, Frost produced and hosted a television special in the same format, \"That Was the Year That Was\", on NBC.\n\nFrost fronted various programmes following the success of \"TW3\", including its immediate successor, \"Not So Much a Programme, More a Way of Life\", which he co-chaired with Willie Rushton and poet P. J. Kavanagh. Screened on three evenings each week, this series was dropped after a sketch was found to be offensive to Catholics and another to the British royal family. \n\nFrost signed for Rediffusion, the ITV weekday contractor in London, to produce a \"heavier\" interview-based show called \"The Frost Programme\". Guests included Oswald Mosley and Rhodesian premier Ian Smith. His memorable dressing-down of insurance fraudster Emil Savundra, regarded as the first example of \"trial by television\" in the U.K., led to concern from ITV executives that it might affect Savundra's right to a fair trial. Frost's introductory words for his television programmes during this period, \"Hello, good evening and welcome\", became his catchphrase and were often mimicked.\n\nFrost was a member of a successful consortium, including former executives from the BBC, that bid for an ITV franchise in 1967. This became London Weekend Television, which began broadcasting in July 1968. The station began with a programming policy that was considered \"highbrow\" and suffered launch problems with low audience ratings and financial problems. A September 1968 meeting of the Network Programme Committee, which made decisions about the channel's scheduling, was particularly fraught, with Lew Grade expressing hatred of Frost in his presence. Frost, according to Kitty Muggeridge in 1967, had \"risen without a trace.\"\n\nHe was involved in the station's early years as a presenter. On 20 and 21 July 1969, during the British television Apollo 11 coverage, he presented \"David Frost's Moon Party\" for LWT, a ten-hour discussion and entertainment marathon from LWT's Wembley Studios, on the night Neil Armstrong walked on the moon. Two of his guests on this programme were British historian A. J. P. Taylor and entertainer Sammy Davis, Jr. Around this time Frost interviewed Rupert Murdoch whose recently acquired Sunday newspaper, the \"News of the World\", had just serialised the memoirs of Christine Keeler, a central figure in the Profumo scandal of 1963. For the Australian publisher, this was a bruising encounter, although Frost said that he had not intended it to be. Murdoch confessed to his biographer Michael Wolff that the incident had convinced him that Frost was \"an arrogant bastard, [and] a bloody bugger\".\n\nIn the late 1960s, he began an intermittent involvement in the film industry. Setting up David Paradine Ltd in 1966, he part-financed \"The Rise and Rise of Michael Rimmer\" (1970), in which the lead character was based partly on Frost, and gained an executive producer credit. In 1976, Frost was the executive producer of the British musical film \"The Slipper and the Rose\", retelling the story of Cinderella.\n\nFrost was the subject of \"This Is Your Life\" in January 1972 when he was surprised by Eamonn Andrews at London's Quaglino's restaurant.\n\nIn 1968, he signed a contract worth £125,000 to appear on American television in his own show on three evenings each week, the largest such arrangement for a British television personality at the time. From 1969 to 1972, Frost kept his London shows and fronted \"The David Frost Show\" on the Group W (U.S. Westinghouse Corporation) television stations in the U.S. His 1970 TV special, \"Frost on America\", featured guests such as Jack Benny and Tennessee Williams.\n\nIn a declassified transcript of a 1972 telephone call between Frost and Henry Kissinger, President Nixon's national security advisor and secretary of state, Frost urged Kissinger to call chess Grandmaster Bobby Fischer and urge him to compete in that year's World Chess Championship. During this call, Frost revealed that he was working on a novel.\n\nFrost interviewed heavyweight boxer Muhammad Ali in 1974 at his training camp in Deer Lake, Pennsylvania before \"The Rumble in the Jungle\" with George Foreman. Ali remarked, \"Listen David, when I meet this man, if you think the world was surprised when Nixon resigned, wait till I whip Foreman's behind.\"\n\nIn 1977, the Nixon Interviews, which were five 90-minute interviews with former U.S. President Richard Nixon, were broadcast. Nixon was paid $600,000 plus a share of the profits for the interviews, which had to be funded by Frost himself after the U.S. television networks turned down the programme, describing it as \"checkbook journalism\". Frost's company negotiated its own deals to syndicate the interviews with local stations across the U.S. and internationally, creating what Ron Howard described as \"the first fourth network\". Frost taped around 29 hours of interviews with Nixon over four weeks. Nixon, who had previously avoided discussing his role in the Watergate scandal that had led to his resignation as president in 1974, expressed contrition saying, \"I let the American people down and I have to carry that burden with me for the rest of my life\".\n\nFollowing the 1979 Iranian Revolution, Frost was the last person to interview Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the deposed Shah of Iran. The interview took place onn Contadora Island in Panama in January 1980, and was broadcast by the American Broadcasting Company in the U.S. on 17 January.\n\nFrost was an organiser of the Music for UNICEF Concert at the United Nations General Assembly in 1979. Ten years later, he was hired as the anchor of the new American tabloid news program \"Inside Edition\". He was dismissed after only three weeks because of poor ratings. It seems he was \"considered too high-brow for the show's low-brow format.\"\n\nFrost was one of the \"Famous Five\" who launched TV-am in February 1983 but, like LWT in the late 1960s, the station began with an unsustainable \"highbrow\" approach. Frost remained a presenter after restructuring. \"Frost on Sunday\" began in September 1983 and continued until the station lost its franchise at the end of 1992. Frost had been part of an unsuccessful consortium, CPV-TV, with Richard Branson and other interests, which had attempted to acquire three ITV contractor franchises prior to the changes made by the Independent Television Commission in 1991. After transferring from ITV, his Sunday morning interview programme \"Breakfast with Frost\" ran on the BBC from January 1993 until 29 May 2005. For a time it ran on BSB before moving to BBC 1.\n\nFrost hosted \"Through the Keyhole\", which ran on several UK channels from 1987 until 2008 and also featured Loyd Grossman. Produced by his own production company, the programme was first shown in prime time and on daytime television in its later years.\n\nFrost worked for Al Jazeera English, presenting a live weekly hour-long current affairs programme, \"Frost Over The World\", which started when the network launched in November 2006. The programme regularly made headlines with interviewees such as Tony Blair, President Omar al-Bashir of Sudan, Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan and President Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua. The programme was produced by the former \"Question Time\" editor and \"Independent on Sunday\" journalist Charlie Courtauld. Frost was one of the first to interview the man who authored the Fatwa on Terrorism, Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri.\n\nDuring his career as a broadcaster Frost became one of Concorde's most frequent fliers, having flown between London and New York an average of 20 times per year for 20 years.\n\nIn 2007, Frost hosted a discussion with Libya's leader Muammar Gaddafi as part of the Monitor Group's involvement in the country. In June 2010, Frost presented \"Frost on Satire\", an hour-long BBC Four documentary looking at the history of television satire.\n\nFrost was the only person to have interviewed all eight British prime ministers serving between 1964 and 2014 (Harold Wilson, Edward Heath, James Callaghan, Margaret Thatcher, John Major, Tony Blair, Gordon Brown, and David Cameron) and all seven U.S. presidents in office between 1969 and 2008 (Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush).\n\nHe was a patron and former vice-president of the Motor Neurone Disease Association charity, as well as being a patron of the Alzheimer's Research Trust, Hearing Star Benevolent Fund, East Anglia's Children's Hospices, the Home Farm Trust and the Elton John AIDS Foundation. He was also recognized for his contributions to the women's charity \"Wellbeing for Women\".\n\nAfter having been in television for 40 years, Frost was estimated to be worth £200 million by the Sunday Times Rich List in 2006, a figure he considered a significant over-estimate in 2011. The valuation included the assets of his main British company and subsidiaries, plus homes in London and the country.\n\n\"Frost/Nixon\" was originally a play written by Peter Morgan, developed from the Nixon Interviews that Frost had conducted with Richard Nixon in 1977. \"Frost/Nixon\" was presented as a stage production in London in 2006 and on Broadway in 2007. Frank Langella won a Leading Actor Tony Award for his portrayal of Nixon, the play also received nominations for Best Play and Best Direction.\n\nThe play was adapted into a Hollywood motion picture entitled Frost/Nixon and starring Michael Sheen as Frost and Langella as Nixon, both reprising their stage roles. The film was released in 2008 and directed by Ron Howard. It was nominated for five Golden Globe Awards, winning none: Best Motion Picture-Drama, Best Director-Drama, Best Actor-Drama (Langella), Best Screenplay, and Best Original Score. It was also nominated for five Academy Awards, again winning none: Best Picture, Best Actor (Langella), Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Film Editing.\n\nIn February 2009, Frost was featured on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's international affairs programme \"Foreign Correspondent\" in a report titled \"The World According To Frost\", reflecting on his long career and portrayal in the film \"Frost/Nixon\".\n\nFrost was known for several relationships with high-profile women. In the mid-1960s, he dated British actress Janette Scott, between her marriages to songwriter Jackie Rae and singer Mel Tormé; in the early 1970s he was engaged to American actress Diahann Carroll; between 1972 and 1977 he had a relationship with British socialite Caroline Cushing; in 1981 he married Lynne Frederick, widow of Peter Sellers, but they divorced the following year. He also had an 18-year intermittent affair with American actress Carol Lynley.\n\nOn 19 March 1983, Frost married Lady Carina Fitzalan-Howard, daughter of the 17th Duke of Norfolk. Three sons were born to the couple over the next five years. His second Wilfred Frost followed in his father's footsteps and currently works as an anchor at CNBC. They lived for many years in Chelsea, London, and kept a weekend home at Michelmersh Court in Hampshire.\n\nOn 31 August 2013, Frost was aboard a Cunard Line cruise ship, the , when he had a heart attack and died. Cunard said that the vessel had left Southampton for a ten-day cruise in the Mediterranean, ending in Rome. The then British Prime Minister David Cameron paid tribute, saying: \"He could be—and certainly was with me—both a friend and a fearsome interviewer.\" Michael Grade commented: \"He was kind of a television renaissance man. He could put his hand to anything. He could turn over Richard Nixon or he could win the comedy prize at the Montreux Golden Rose festival.\" On 13 March 2014, a service was held at Westminster Abbey, at which Frost was honoured with a memorial stone in Poets' Corner.\nFrost's post-mortem found that he had hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. His 31-year-old son Miles Frost died from the same condition in 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54613924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54613924", "title": "Death of Elijah Doughty", "text": "Death of Elijah Doughty\n\nOn 29 August 2016, Elijah Doughty, a fourteen-year-old Indigenous Australian, was involved in a fatal traffic collision with a ute whilst riding a motorbike. There is no evidence that Elijah had stolen the motorbike, with his friends claiming he was handed the bike in the reserve where he was killed. The driver of the ute, a 56-year-old white man, was also the owner of the motorcycle, which he had reported stolen the previous day.\n\nThe driver was subsequently charged with manslaughter but was acquitted by a jury on 21 July 2017 after a trial at the Supreme Court of Western Australia; however he was found guilty of the lesser charge of dangerous driving causing death.\n\nOn 28 August 2016, the man and his wife had been out visiting friends and arrived at their front gate at 8.15pm — she drove home, as they had earlier agreed that she would, so while they were out he drank six Carlton Dry beers. The man suspected immediately that they had been burgled because the key he said he always left at the front gate was gone. Break-ins were not unusual at the time in the twin cities of Kalgoorlie-Boulder, where thefts were the main topic of conversation on the popular Facebook group \"Kalgoorlie Crimes Whinge and Whine\". His wife posted about the thefts on the Facebook page dedicated to local crimes, a friend offered a $1500 reward for the return of the Honda and members of the \"Whinge and Whine\" Facebook group began sending information.\n\nPolice had told the man that dirtbikes often end up at Gribble Creek Reserve and suggested he check under bushes for the Honda. He searched the streets near his home by torchlight on foot until 10.30pm. He told his boss he would not be in the next day and started searching again soon after 6am on August 29. He was parked at the edge of Gribble Creek shortly after 8.30am, listening for motorbikes, when he saw a hoodie-clad figure riding the bike his kids used, started his car and gave chase. The pursuit lasted no more than 26 seconds.\n\nThe driver was of the belief it is alleged it was the missing motorcycle which Doughty was riding. He had followed Doughty in his Nissan Navara ute along a dirt-track in the Gribble Creek area of Boulder. Crash investigators stated the man travelled at an average speed of 67 km/h as he gained ground on Elijah at a rate of 21 km/h. Elijah was on a 70 cc bike — widely marketed as suitable for eight- to 11-year-olds — and travelled at an average speed of 46 km/h. A collision subsequently took place in which Doughty suffered fatal injuries. The forensic pathologist explained to the jury that Elijah's injuries included his skull being split in half, brain stem snapped, spinal cord severed, most of his ribs broken, pelvis fractured, and leg and ankle mangled. Elijah's body was found 9.5 metres from the largest piece of dirtbike wreckage, whereas the ute had continued in a straight line for 34 metres.\n\nAccording to Elijah's friends, he had been handed the bike in the reserve.\n\nThe following day, a protest occurred outside the Kalgoorlie Courthouse. Approximately 200 people, some armed with rocks and bottles, broke down the gates of the court and surrounded police; who used pepper spray and riot shields in response. Twelve police officers were injured during the disorder, with one requiring stitches, while several demonstrators were arrested. Five police cars and a local business were damaged.\n\nDarryl Doughty, the father of Elijah Doughty, explained that the trouble started when court guards decided to lock the front door. Relatives and friends had wanted to hear the other side of the story, however they were refused entry to the court. The police prosecutor informed Darryl that the matter would be put off until that afternoon and completed by video link, and obtained Darryl's phone number. However Darryl was not contacted and the accused was flown to Perth instead.\n\nWith tensions rising, Darryl addressed the gathered crowd asking them to calm down, however by then a small group had already damaged a police vehicle.\n\nLocal Indigenous broadcaster Debbie Carmody accused local anti-crime Facebook groups of \"inciting violence and murder\" against Indigenous youth.\n\nWith a vigil set-up at the site of Elijah's death, Kalgoorlie Police Superintendent Darryl Gaunt says his officers have witnessed non-Aboriginal residents driving fast and close to the bush vigil where Elijah died, yelling abuse at mourners.\n\nThe driver was interviewed by police the same day as Elijah's death and said he was \"“trying to catch up with a motorbike that I know, I think, is mine, and hoping that the rider would go into the bush and fall off”. \n\nThe ute driver was charged with manslaughter and pleaded not guilty after his offer to plead guilty to the lesser charge of dangerous driving causing death was rejected by the state. \n\nThe trial was held in the Supreme Court of Western Australia from July 17 to July 21 2017.\n\nDuring the trial, the ute driver, who cannot legally be identified, stated he had not intended to hit Doughty and claimed that Doughty had \"veered in front of him\". The driver admitted however he could not prevent the collision because he was driving too close to the motorbike.\n\nOn 21 July 2017, the jury in the trial found the driver not guilty of manslaughter but convicted him of dangerous driving occasioning death. Following the verdict, members of the public gallery screamed abuse at the defendant and the jury; the court was briefly adjourned to allow their removal by security. \n\nSupporters of Doughty, watching the proceedings in Kalgoorlie via video link, protested the verdict, many wearing t-shirts with the Black Lives Matter slogan. The protest was described by journalists as vocal but peaceful.\n\nFollowing the jury verdict on July 21, a number of rallies and vigils were held across Australia to call for justice for Elijah Doughty. A crowd of approximately 150 protesters gathered outside the Supreme Court of New South Wales on 24 July 2017 while chanting \"What do we want? Justice. What have we got? Fuck all.\" Some protestors allegedly vandalised the façade of the Supreme Court by spreading red ochre, while one woman screamed \"This is the blood of Aboriginal people, don't wait for this to be your children's.\"\n\nOn 26 July 2017, protestors in Brisbane sat on the road to block the intersection of Albert St and Adelaide St. Another protest took place in Melbourne on 28 July 2017, in which protestors marched to Flinders Street railway station then sat on the road and started a fire in a metal drum for the purpose of a smoking ceremony, blocking one of the city's busiest intersections. One man was arrested and the Metropolitan Fire Brigade extinguished the fire.\n\nOn 30 July, comedian Chris Lilley apologised for reposting a controversial video a few days after the verdict. It was a music video titled \"Squashed Nigga\" and was part of his 2011 TV comedy series, Angry Boys. It featured his fictional character S.mouse singing about an Aboriginal boy who had died from being run over by a truck and the video included a boy lying on a road. Many criticised the timing of the posting, however Lilley insisted there was no relation to \"current news stories\".\n\nOn 28 August 2017, police charged Elijah's father, Darryl, over an incident at the Kalgoorlie Magistrates Court. The distraught father was selected for a security search with a metal detector wand by a male Court Security and Custodial Officer, but police allege he failed to comply and left the building. Police claim Darryl was seen 'acting aggressively' towards a member of the public and allegedly assaulted a court officer causing minor injuries. He was charged with assault and released on bail after appearing at court where he pleaded not guilty. He is due to appear in court again on September 6.\n\nThe man responsible for the death of Elijah Doughty after he struck down with his vehicle and killed the teenager Elijah Doughty was granted parole after serving about 19 months behind bars.\n\nSuicide prevention expert, academic and social justice advocate Gerry Georgatos who has supported the Doughty family since the tragedy stated in a contextually moving piece online that \"Someone has to call out the perpetrator of Elijah's death for what he did. It was rage filled violence, of such intense rage that it was murderous.\"\n"}
{"id": "51313097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51313097", "title": "Death of Sudipto Gupta", "text": "Death of Sudipto Gupta\n\nSudipto Gupta was a 22-year-old student who died on 2 April 2013 while in police custody following his arrest at a demonstration in Kolkata, India.\n\nSudipto was a student of political science at Rabindra Bharati University, and a state committee member in the Students' Federation of India (SFI), the student wing of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). He was injured while being transported to jail by bus. Police claim he was hanging his head out of window and hit a lampost, while students maintain he was beaten by police. The bus driver was arrested and charged with negligent driving.\n\nPost mortem examination found multiple injuries on his body, heart, lung and brain, along with internal bleeding and pulmonary contusion consistent with assault. However, a magisterial inquiry ruled out any role or negligence of the police in the death stating it was caused due to an accident.\n"}
{"id": "58990577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58990577", "title": "Edward Bosqui", "text": "Edward Bosqui\n\nEdward Bosqui (1832 - 1917) was a Canadian artist, printer, and pioneer in San Francisco, California. Involved in the Bohemian Club he was a patron of the arts.\n\nBosqui was born in Montreal, Quebec.\n\nA talented painter, he founded the Bosqui Engraving and Printing Company in 1863. A stereoscopic albumen silver print of the building was taken by Eadweard J. Muybridge in 1869. Bosqui helped organize the San Francisco Art Association in 1871. \n\nHis home burned down in 1897 and many of his paintings were destroyed in the fire. His printing business also later burned.\n\nHe had eight children.\n\nBosqui died in 1917.\nHis son, Edward L. Bosqui, became California Fish and Game commissioner.\n"}
{"id": "28300516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28300516", "title": "European Parliamentary Technology Assessment", "text": "European Parliamentary Technology Assessment\n\nThe European Parliamentary Technology Assessment (EPTA) is a network of technology assessment (TA) institutions specialising in advising parliamentary bodies in Europe.\n\nThe EPTA partners advise parliaments on the possible social, economic and environmental impact of new sciences and technologies. The common aim is to provide impartial and high quality analysis and reports of developments in issues such as for example bioethics and biotechnology, public health, environment and energy, ICTs, and R&D policy. Such work is seen as an aid to the democratic control of scientific and technological innovations, and was pioneered in the 1970s by the Office of Technology Assessment (OTA) of the US Congress. EPTA aims to advance the establishment of technology assessment (TA) as an integral part of policy formation in parliamentary decision-making processes in Europe, and to strengthen the links between TA units in Europe.\n\nThe EPTA network was formally established in 1990, on a recommendation by the UK’s parliamentary TA office – Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology, under the patronage of the President of the European Parliament, Mr Enrique Baron Crespo. The network has a light structure, guided by the EPTA \"Council\" and by meetings of the \"Directors\" of the EPTA partner organisations. The EPTA Council is the steering committee of the EPTA network, and consists of Members of Parliament or representatives of the advisory boards for the respective EPTA organisation. The Council decides on organisational matters such as co-operation within the network and the status of members and associates. The \"Presidency\" of EPTA rotates among full members each year. The tasks of the EPTA member organisation holding the presidency are to coordinate the EPTA network activities and to host the annual EPTA conference, Council meeting and Directors' meeting.\n\nParliamentary TA is institutionalised in different ways, ranging from permanent parliamentary committees for TA; separate TA units as part of the parliamentary administration; to independent institutions with a mandate to serve as a permanent consulting institution for the parliament. The members of the EPTA network are European organisations, which carry out TA studies on behalf of parliaments. Full membership can be obtained by a unit that operates in Europe, is devoted to TA or related activities, serves a (supra-national, national or regional) parliament, has its own budget and secretariat and has an active work programme including publications on issues with a scientific and technological component. Associate membership can be granted to other TA units that have a TA programme and the resources to realise it, but that do not fulfil other criteria for full membership. Associates are involved in all EPTA activities but are not represented in the EPTA Council. Further, other units interested in the work of EPTA can act as observers.\n\nThere are currently 12 full members:\nThere are currently 10 associate members:\n\nEPTA organises annual conferences targeted at Members of Parliaments and actively promotes collaboration between members and associates, including common projects occasionally.\nOn the EPTA homepage an encompassing database lists and summarises all TA projects of the member institutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "176760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176760", "title": "Foot binding", "text": "Foot binding\n\nFoot binding was the custom of applying tight binding to the feet of young girls to modify the shape and size of their feet. It was practised in China from the Song dynasty until the early 20th century, and bound feet were considered a status symbol as well as a mark of beauty. Foot binding limited the mobility of women, and resulted in lifelong disabilities for most of its subjects, although some women with bound feet working outdoors have also been reported. Feet altered by binding were called lotus feet.\n\nThe practice possibly originated among upper class court dancers during the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period in 10th century China, then became popular among the elite during the Song dynasty, eventually spreading to all social classes by the Qing dynasty. Foot binding was practiced in different forms, and the more severe form of binding may have been developed in the 16th century. It has been estimated that by the 19th century, 40–50% of all Chinese women may have had bound feet, and up to almost 100% among upper class Chinese women. The prevalence and practice of foot binding however varied in different parts of the country.\n\nThere had been attempts to end the practice during the Qing dynasty; Manchu Kangxi Emperor tried to ban foot binding in 1664 but failed. In the later part of the 19th century, Chinese reformers challenged the practice but it was not until the early 20th century that foot binding began to die out as a result of anti-foot-binding campaigns. Only a few elderly Chinese women still survive today with bound feet.\n\nThere are a number of stories about the origin of foot binding before its establishment during the Song dynasty. One of these involves the story of a favorite consort of the Southern Qi emperor Xiao Baojuan, Pan Yunu (died 501 AD), who had delicate feet and danced barefoot on a floor decorated with golden lotus flower design. The emperor expressed admiration and said that \"lotus springs from her every step!\" (步步生蓮), a reference to the Buddhist legend of Padmavati under whose feet lotus springs forth. This story may have given rise to the terms \"golden lotus\" or \"lotus feet\" used to describe bound feet; there is, however, no evidence that Consort Pan ever bound her feet.\n\nThe general view is that the practice is likely to have originated from the time of the 10th-century Emperor Li Yu of the Southern Tang, just before the Song dynasty. Li Yu created a six-foot tall golden lotus decorated with precious stones and pearls, and asked his concubine to bind her feet in white silk into the shape of the crescent moon, and perform a ballet-like dance on the points of her feet on the lotus. Yao Niang's dance was said to be so graceful that others sought to imitate her. The binding of feet was then replicated by other upper-class women and the practice spread.\n\nSome of the earliest possible references to foot binding appear around 1100, when a couple of poems seemed to allude to the practice. Soon after 1148, in the earliest extant discourse on the practice of foot binding, scholar wrote that a bound foot should be arch-shape and small. He observed that \"women's footbinding began in recent times; it was not mentioned in any books from previous eras.\" In the 13th century, scholar wrote the first known criticism of the practice: \"Little girls not yet four or five years old, who have done nothing wrong, nevertheless are made to suffer unlimited pain to bind [their feet] small. I do not know what use this is.\"\n\nThe earliest archaeological evidence for foot binding dates to the tombs of Huang Sheng, who died in 1243 at the age of 17, and Madame Zhou, who died in 1274. Each had her feet bound with 6-foot-long gauze strips. Zhou's skeleton was well preserved and showed that her feet fit the narrow, pointed slippers that were buried with her. The style of bound feet found in Song dynasty tombs, where the big toe was bent upwards, appears to be different from the norm of later eras, and the excessive smallness of the feet, the \"three-inch golden lotus\", may be a later development in the 16th century.\n\nAt the end of the Song dynasty, men would drink from a special shoe whose heel contained a small cup. During the Yuan dynasty, some would also drink directly from the shoe itself. This practice was called \"toast to the golden lotus\" and lasted until the late Qing dynasty.\n\nThe first European to mention footbinding was the Italian missionary Odoric of Pordenone in the fourteenth century during the Yuan dynasty. However, no other foreign visitors to Yuan China mentioned the practice, including Ibn Battuta and Marco Polo (who nevertheless noted the dainty walk of Chinese women who took very small steps), perhaps an indication that it was not a widespread or extreme practice at that time. The practice however was encouraged by the Mongol rulers on their Chinese subjects. The practice became increasingly common among the gentry families, later spreading to the general population, as commoners and theatre actors alike adopted footbinding. By the Ming period, the practice was no longer the preserve of the gentry, but it was considered a status symbol. As foot binding restricted female movement, one side effect of its rising popularity was the corresponding decline of the art of dance in China in women, and it became increasingly rare to hear about beauties and courtesans who were also great dancers after the Song era.\n\nThe Manchus issued a number of edicts to ban the practice, first in 1636 when the Manchu leader Hong Taiji declared the founding of the new Qing dynasty, then in 1638, and another in 1664 by the Kangxi Emperor. However, few Han Chinese complied with the edicts and Kangxi eventually abandoned the effort in 1668. \nBy the 19th century, it was estimated that 40-50% of Chinese women had bound feet, and among upper class Han Chinese women, the figure was almost 100%. Bound feet became a mark of beauty and was also a prerequisite for finding a husband. It also became an avenue for poorer women to marry into money in some areas; for example, in late 19th century Guangdong, it was customary to bind the feet of the eldest daughter of a lower-class family who was intended to be brought up as a lady. Her younger sisters would grow up to be bond-servants or domestic slaves and be able to work in the fields, but the eldest daughter would assume to never have the need to work. Women, their families, and their husbands took great pride in tiny feet, with the ideal length, called the \"Golden Lotus\", being about three Chinese inches long (around in Western measurement). This pride was reflected in the elegantly embroidered silk slippers and wrappings girls and women wore to cover their feet. Walking on bound feet necessitated bending the knees slightly and swaying to maintain proper movement and balance, a dainty walk that was also considered erotic to some men.\n\nSome women with bound feet may not walk without the support of their shoes and were severely limited in their mobility. However, many women with bound feet were still able to walk and work in the fields, albeit with greater limitation than their non-bound counterparts. In the 19th and early 20th century, dancers with bound feet were popular, as were circus performers who stood on prancing or running horses. Women with bound feet in one village in Yunnan Province even formed a regional dance troupe to perform for tourists in the late 20th century, though age has since forced the group to retire. In other areas, women in their 70s and 80s could be found providing limited assistance to the workers in the rice fields well into the 21st century.\n\nOpposition to foot binding had been raised by some Chinese writers in the 18th century. In the mid-19th century, many of the rebel leaders of the Taiping Rebellion were of Hakka background whose womenfolk did not bind their feet, and foot binding was outlawed. The rebellion however failed, and Christian missionaries, who had provided education for girls and actively discouraged what they considered a barbaric practice, then played a part in changing elite opinion on footbinding through education, pamphleteering, and lobbying of the Qing court. The earliest-known Western anti-foot binding society, \"Jie Chan Zu Hui\" (截纏足会), was formed in 1874. In 1875, 60-70 Christian women in Xiamen attended a meeting presided over by a missionary John MacGowan formed the Natural Foot (\"tianzu\", literally Heavenly Foot) Society. It was then championed by the Woman's Christian Temperance Movement founded in 1883 and advocated by missionaries including Timothy Richard, who thought that Christianity could promote equality between the sexes.\n\nReform-minded Chinese intellectuals began to consider footbinding to be an aspect of their culture that needed to be eliminated. In the 1883, Kang Youwei founded the Anti-Footbinding Society near Canton to combat the practice, and anti-footbinding societies sprang up across the country, with membership for the movement claimed to reach 300,000. The anti-footbinding movement however stressed pragmatic and patriotic reasons rather than feminist ones, arguing that abolition of footbinding would lead to better health and more efficient labour. Reformers such as Liang Qichao, influenced by Social Darwinism, also argued that it weakened the nation, since enfeebled women supposedly produced weak sons. At the turn of the 20th century, early feminists, such as Qiu Jin, called for the end of foot-binding. Many members of anti-footbinding groups pledged to not bind their daughters' feet nor to allow their sons to marry women with bound feet. In 1902, the Empress Dowager Cixi issued an anti-foot binding edict, but it was soon rescinded.\n\nIn 1912, the new Republic of China government banned foot binding (though not actively implemented), and leading intellectuals of the May Fourth Movement saw footbinding as a major symbol of China's backwardness. Local warlords such as Yan Xishan in Shanxi engaged in their own sustained campaign against footbinding with feet inspectors and fines for those who continued with the practice, while regional governments of the later Nanjing regime also enforced the ban. The campaign against footbinding was very successful in some regions; in one province, a 1929 survey showed that whereas only 2.3% of girls born before 1910 had unbound feet, 95% of those born after were not bound. In a region south of Beijing, Dingxian, where over 99% of women were once bound, no new cases were found among those born after 1919. In Taiwan, the practice was also discouraged by the ruling Japanese from the beginning of Japanese rule, and from 1911 to 1915 it was gradually made illegal. The practice however lingered on in some regions in China; in 1928, a census in rural Shanxi found that 18% of women had bound feet, while in some remote rural areas such as Yunnan Province it continued to be practiced until the 1950s. In most parts of China, however, the practice had virtually disappeared by 1949. The practice was also stigmatized in Communist China, and the last vestiges of footbinding were stamped out, with the last new case of footbinding reported in 1957. By the 21st century, only a few elderly women in China still have bound feet. In 1999, the last shoe factory making lotus shoes, the Zhiqiang Shoe Factory in Harbin, closed.\n\nFoot binding was practiced in various forms and its prevalence varied in different regions. A less severe form in Sichuan, called \"cucumber foot\" (\"huanggua jiao\") due to its slender shape, folded the four toes under but did not distort the heel and taper the ankle. Some working women in Jiangsu made a pretense of binding while keeping their feet natural. Not all women were always bound—some women once bound remained bound all through their lives, but some were only briefly bound, and some were bound only until their marriage. Footbinding was most common among women whose work involved domestic crafts and those in urban areas; it was also more common in northern China where it was widely practiced by women of all social classes, but less so in parts of southern China such as Guangdong and Guangxi where it was largely a practice of women in the provincial capitals or among the gentry.\nManchu women, as well as Mongol and Chinese women in the Eight Banners, did not bind their feet, and the most a Manchu woman might do was to wrap the feet tightly to give them a slender appearance. The Manchus, wanting to emulate the particular gait that bound feet necessitated, adapted their own form of platform shoes to cause them to walk in a similar swaying manner. These \"flower bowl\" (花盆鞋) or \"horse-hoof\" shoes (馬蹄鞋) have a platform generally made of wood two to six inches in height and fitted to the middle of the sole, or they have a small central tapered pedestal. Many Han Chinese in the Inner City of Beijing also did not bind their feet, and it was reported in the mid-1800s that around 50-60% of non-banner women had unbound feet. Bound feet nevertheless became a significant differentiating marker between Han women and Manchu or other banner women.\n\nThe Hakka people however were unusual among Han Chinese in not practicing foot binding at all. Most non-Han Chinese people, such as the Manchus, Mongols and Tibetans, did not bind their feet; however, some non-Han ethnic groups did. Foot binding was practiced by the Hui Muslims in Gansu Province, the Dungan Muslims, descendants of Hui from northwestern China who fled to central Asia, were also seen practicing foot binding up to 1948. In southern China, in Guangzhou, 19th century Scottish scholar James Legge noted a mosque that had a placard denouncing foot binding, saying Islam did not allow it since it constituted violating the creation of God.\n\nThe process was started before the arch of the foot had a chance to develop fully, usually between the ages of 4 and 9. Binding usually started during the winter months since the feet were more likely to be numb, and therefore the pain would not be as extreme.\n\nFirst, each foot would be soaked in a warm mixture of herbs and animal blood; this was intended to soften the foot and aid the binding. Then, the toenails were cut back as far as possible to prevent in-growth and subsequent infections, since the toes were to be pressed tightly into the sole of the foot. Cotton bandages, 3 m long and 5 cm wide (10 ft by 2 in), were prepared by soaking them in the blood and herb mixture. To enable the size of the feet to be reduced, the toes on each foot were curled under, then pressed with great force downwards and squeezed into the sole of the foot until the toes broke.\n\nThe broken toes were held tightly against the sole of the foot while the foot was then drawn down straight with the leg and the arch of the foot was forcibly broken. The bandages were repeatedly wound in a figure-eight movement, starting at the inside of the foot at the instep, then carried over the toes, under the foot, and around the heel, the freshly broken toes being pressed tightly into the sole of the foot. At each pass around the foot, the binding cloth was tightened, pulling the ball of the foot and the heel together, causing the broken foot to fold at the arch, and pressing the toes underneath the sole. The binding was pulled so tightly that the girl could not move her toes at all and the ends of the binding cloth were then sewn so that the girl could not loosen it.\n\nThe girl's broken feet required a great deal of care and attention, and they would be unbound regularly. Each time the feet were unbound, they were washed, the toes carefully checked for injury, and the nails carefully and meticulously trimmed. When unbound, the broken feet were also kneaded to soften them and the soles of the girl's feet were often beaten to make the joints and broken bones more flexible. The feet were also soaked in a concoction that caused any necrotic flesh to fall off.\n\nImmediately after this procedure, the girl's broken toes were folded back under and the feet were rebound. The bindings were pulled even tighter each time the girl's feet were rebound. This unbinding and rebinding ritual was repeated as often as possible (for the rich at least once daily, for poor peasants two or three times a week), with fresh bindings. It was generally an elder female member of the girl's family or a professional foot binder who carried out the initial breaking and ongoing binding of the feet. It was considered preferable to have someone other than the mother do it, as she might have been sympathetic to her daughter's pain and less willing to keep the bindings tight.\n\nFor most the bound feet eventually became numb. However, once a foot had been crushed and bound, attempting to reverse the process by unbinding was painful, and the shape could not be reversed without a woman undergoing the same pain all over again.\n\nThe most common problem with bound feet was infection. Despite the amount of care taken in regularly trimming the toenails, they would often in-grow, becoming infected and causing injuries to the toes. Sometimes, for this reason, the girl's toenails would be peeled back and removed altogether. The tightness of the binding meant that the circulation in the feet was faulty, and the circulation to the toes was almost cut off, so any injuries to the toes were unlikely to heal and were likely to gradually worsen and lead to infected toes and rotting flesh. The necrosis of the flesh would also initially give off a foul odor, and later the smell may come from various microorganisms that colonized the folds.\n\nIf the infection in the feet and toes entered the bones, it could cause them to soften, which could result in toes dropping off; however, this was seen as a benefit because the feet could then be bound even more tightly. Girls whose toes were more fleshy would sometimes have shards of glass or pieces of broken tiles inserted within the binding next to her feet and between her toes to cause injury and introduce infection deliberately. Disease inevitably followed infection, meaning that death from septic shock could result from foot-binding, and a surviving girl was more at risk for medical problems as she grew older. It is thought that as many as 10% of girls may have died from gangrene and other infections due to footbinding.\n\nAt the beginning of the binding, many of the foot bones would remain broken, often for years. However, as the girl grew older, the bones would begin to heal. Even after the foot bones had healed, they were prone to re-breaking repeatedly, especially when the girl was in her teenage years and her feet were still soft. Bones in the girls' feet would often be deliberately broken again in order to further change the size or shape of the feet. This was especially the case with the toes, as small toes were especially desirable. Older women were more likely to break hips and other bones in falls, since they could not balance securely on their feet, and were less able to rise to their feet from a sitting position. Other issues that might arise from foot binding included paralysis and muscular atrophy.\n\nBefore footbinding was practiced in China, admiration for small feet already existed as demonstrated by the Tang dynasty tale of Ye Xian written around 850 by Duan Chengshi. This tale of a girl who lost her shoe and then married a king who sought the owner of the shoe as only her foot was small enough to fit the shoe contains elements of the European story of Cinderella, and is thought to be one of its antecedents. For many, the bound feet were an enhancement to a woman's beauty and made her movement more dainty, and a woman with perfect lotus feet was likely to make a more prestigious marriage. The desirability varies with the size of the feet – the perfect bound feet and the most desirable (called \"golden lotuses\") would be around 3 Chinese inches (around 4 inches (10 cm) in Western measurement) or smaller, while those larger may be called \"silver lotuses\" (4 Chinese inches) or \"iron lotuses\" (5 Chinese inches or larger and the least desirable for marriage). The belief that footbinding made women more desirable to men is widely used as an explanation for the spread and persistence of footbinding.\n\nSome also considered bound feet to be intensely erotic, and Qing Dynasty sex manuals listed 48 different ways of playing with women's bound feet. Some men preferred never to see a woman's bound feet, so they were always concealed within tiny \"lotus shoes\" and wrappings. According to Robert van Gulik, the bound feet were also considered the most intimate part of a woman's body; in erotic art of the Qing to Song periods where the genitalia may be shown, the bound feet were never depicted uncovered. Howard Levy however suggests that the barely revealed bound foot may also only function as an initial tease.\n\nAn erotic effect of the bound feet was the lotus gait, the tiny steps and swaying walk of a woman whose feet had been bound. Women with such deformed feet avoided placing weight on the front of the foot and tended to walk predominantly on their heels. As a result, women who had undergone foot-binding would walk in a cautious and unsteady manner. Some men found the smell of the bound feet attractive, and some also apparently believed that bound feet would cause layers of folds to develop in the vagina, and that the thighs would become sensuously heavier and the vagina tighter. The psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud considered footbinding to be a \"perversion that corresponds to foot fetishism\".\n\nA common argument is that the revival of Confucianism as Neo-Confucianism during the Song dynasty resulted in the decline of the status of women, and that in addition to promoting the seclusion of women and the cult of widow chastity, it also contributed to the development of footbinding. According to Robert van Gulik, the prominent Song Confucian scholar Zhu Xi stressed the inferiority of women as well as the need to keep men and women strictly separate. It was claimed by Lin Yutang among others, probably based on an oral tradition, that Zhu Xi also promoted footbinding in Fujian as a way of encouraging chastity among women, that by restricting their movement it would help keep men and women separate. However, historian Patricia Ebrey suggests that this story might be fictitious.\n\nSome Confucian moralists in fact disapproved of the erotic associations of footbinding, and unbound women were also praised. The Neo-Confucian Cheng Yi was said to be against footbinding and his family and descendants did not bind their feet. Modern Confucian scholars such as Tu Weiming also dispute any causal link between neo-Confucianism and footbinding. It has been noted that Confucian doctrine in fact prohibits mutilation of the body as people should not \"injure even the hair and skin of the body received from mother and father\". It is however argued that such injunction applies less to women, rather it is meant to emphasize the sacred link between sons and their parents. Furthermore, it is argued that Confucianism institutionalized the family system in which women are called upon to sacrifice themselves for the good of the family, a system that fostered such practice. Confucian instructions on the moral behaviour of women would include examples of women who were prepared to die or suffer mutilation to show their commitment to the Confucian ethos.\n\nHistorian Dorothy Ko proposed that footbinding may be an expression of the Confucian ideals of civility and culture in the form of correct attire or bodily adornment, and that footbinding was seen as a necessary part of being feminine as well as being civilized. Footbinding was often classified in Chinese encyclopedia as clothing or a form of bodily embellishment rather than mutilation; one from 1591 for example placed footbinding in a section on \"Female Adornments\" that included hairdos, powders, and ear-piercings. According to Ko, the perception of footbinding as a civilised practice may be evinced from a Ming dynasty account that mentioned a proposal to \"entice [the barbarians] to civilize their customs\" by encouraging footbinding among their womenfolk. The practice was also carried out only by women on girls, and it served to emphasize the distinction between male and female, an emphasis that began from an early age. Anthropologist Fred Blake argued that the practice of footbinding was a form of discipline undertaken by women themselves, and perpetuated by women on their daughters, so as to inform their daughters of their role and position in society, and to support and participate in the neo-Confucian way of being civilized.\n\nFoot binding is often seen by feminists as an oppressive practice against women who were victims of a sexist culture. It is also widely seen as a form of violence against women. Bound feet rendered women dependent on their families, particularly their men, as they became largely restricted to their homes. The early Chinese feminist Qiu Jin, who underwent the painful process of unbinding her own bound feet, attacked footbinding and other traditional practices. She argued that women, by retaining their small bound feet, made themselves subservient as it would mean women imprisoning themselves indoors. She believed that women should emancipate themselves from oppression, that girls can ensure their independence through education, and that they should develop new mental and physical qualities fitting for the new era. The ending of the practice is seen as a significant event in the process of female emancipation in China.\n\nSome scholars such as Laurel Bossen and Hill Gates reject the theories that bound feet in China were considered more beautiful, or that it was a means of male control over women, a sign of class status, or a chance for women to marry well. They argued that foot binding was important in work, and can be seen as a way by mothers to tie their daughters down, train them in handwork and keep them close at hand.\n\nIt has also been argued that while the practice started out as a fashion, it persisted because it became an expression of Han identity after the Mongols invaded China in 1279, and later the Manchus' conquest in 1644, as it was then practiced only by Han women. During the Qing Dynasty, attempts were made by the Manchus to ban the practice but failed, and it has been argued the attempts at banning may have in fact led to a spread of the practice among Han Chinese in the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nThe bound foot has played a prominent part in many media works, both Chinese and non-Chinese, modern and traditional. These depictions are sometimes based on observation or research and sometimes on rumors or supposition. Sometimes, as in the case of Pearl Buck's \"The Good Earth\" (1931), the accounts are relatively neutral, implying a respect for Chinese culture and assuming that it is not the role of outsiders to promote reform. Sometimes the accounts seem intended to rouse like-minded Chinese and foreign opinion to abolish the custom, and sometimes the accounts imply condescension or contempt for China.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58658997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58658997", "title": "Frank G. Abell", "text": "Frank G. Abell\n\nFrank George Abell Jr. (1844 - 1910) was a late 19th and early 20th century photographer in the western United States.\n\nAbell was born in Illinois in 1844. He moved with his family to California in 1857 and joined the firm of William Shew in San Francisco in 1862 at age 18, learning the photography business for the next 4 years. He opened his own Abell's Star Gallery in Stockton in 1866 before moving back to San Francisco in 1867. The following year he traveled back up north through the Grass Valley, Red Bluff, and Yreka to Roseburg, Oregon in 1877.\n\nHe worked in Portland from 1878 to 1888, then moved back to San Francisco, before returning to Portland from 1897 to 1907.\n\nAbel formed Abell & Welsh with John Oliver Welsh, Abell & Son with his son George L. Abell, and Abell-Herrin Co.\n\nHe photographed Oregon's first state governor, Joseph Lane, in 1879 or 1880.\n"}
{"id": "4989964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4989964", "title": "Gareth Jones (journalist)", "text": "Gareth Jones (journalist)\n\nGareth Richard Vaughan Jones (13 August 1905 – 12 August 1935) was a Welsh journalist who first publicized in the Western world the existence of the Soviet famine of 1932–33.\n\nJones was born in Barry, Glamorgan. His father Major Edgar Jones was headmaster of Barry County School which Gareth attended. His mother had spent the period 1889–1892 as tutor to the children of Arthur Hughes, the son of Welsh steel industrialist John Hughes, who had founded the town of \"Yuzovka\" or \"Hughesovka\", modern day Donetsk, in Ukraine, and her stories inspired in Jones a desire to visit the Soviet Union, and particularly Ukraine.\n\nJones graduated from the University of Wales, Aberystwyth in 1926 with a first class degree in French, and from Trinity College, Cambridge in 1929 with a first class honours degree in French, German, and Russian. In January 1930 he began work as Foreign Affairs Advisor to former British Prime Minister David Lloyd George, and that summer made his first brief \"pilgrimage\" to Yuzovka (by then renamed Stalino).\n\nIn 1931 he was offered employment in New York City by Dr Ivy Lee, public relations advisor to organisations such as the Rockefeller Institute, the Chrysler Foundation, and Standard Oil, to research a book about the Soviet Union. In the summer of 1931 he toured the Soviet Union with H.J. Heinz II of the food company dynasty, producing a diary published by Heinz as \"Experiences in Russia 1931\", a diary which probably contains the first usage of the word \"starve\" in relation to the collectivisation of Soviet agriculture. In 1932 Jones returned to work for Lloyd George and helped the wartime Prime Minister write his \"War Memoirs\".\n\nDuring the 1930s, he was a reporter for the \"Western Mail\". In late January and early February 1933 Jones was in Germany covering the accession to power of the Nazi Party, and was in Leipzig on the day Adolf Hitler was appointed Chancellor. A few days later on 23 February in the \"Richthofen\", the fastest and most powerful three-motored aeroplane in Germany, Jones became the first foreign journalist to fly with Hitler as he accompanied Hitler and Joseph Goebbels to Frankfurt where he reported for the \"Western Mail\" on the new Chancellor's tumultuous acclamation in that city. He wrote that if the \"Richthofen\" had crashed the history of Europe would have changed. The next month, he travelled to the Soviet Union and eluded authorities to slip into Ukraine, where he kept diaries of the man-made starvation he witnessed. On his return to Berlin on 29 March 1933, he issued his press release, which was published by many newspapers, including \"The Manchester Guardian\" and the \"New York Evening Post\":\n\nThis report was unwelcome in a great many of the media, as the intelligentsia of the time was still in sympathy with the Soviet regime. On 31 March, \"The New York Times\" published a denial of Jones' statement by Walter Duranty under the headline \"RUSSIANS HUNGRY, BUT NOT STARVING\". In the article, Kremlin sources denied the existence of a famine, and said, \"Russian and foreign observers in country could see no grounds for predications of disaster\". On 13 May, Jones published a strong rebuttal to Duranty in \"The New York Times\", standing by his report:\n\nIn a personal letter from Soviet Foreign Commissar Maxim Litvinov (whom Jones had interviewed while in Moscow) to Lloyd George, Jones was informed that he was banned from ever visiting the Soviet Union again.\n\nBanned from Russia, Jones turned his attention to the Far East and in late 1934 he left Britain on a \"Round-the-World Fact-Finding Tour\". He spent about six weeks in Japan, interviewing important generals and politicians, and he eventually reached Beijing. From here he traveled to Inner Mongolia in newly Japanese-occupied Manchukuo in the company of a German journalist. Detained by Japanese forces, the pair were told that there were three routes back to the Chinese town of Kalgan, only one of which was safe; they took this route but were captured by bandits who demanded a ransom of 100,000 Mexican silver pesos. The German journalist was released after two days, but 16 days later the bandits shot Jones under mysterious circumstances, on the eve of his 30th birthday. There were strong suspicions that Jones' murder was engineered by the Soviet NKVD, as revenge for the embarrassment he had previously caused the Soviet regime.\n\nOn 26 August 1935, the London \"Evening Standard\" quoted Lloyd George paying tribute to Jones:\n\nIn November 2009, his diaries recording the man-made genocide of the Great Soviet Famine of 1932–33 went on display for the first time at Cambridge University.\n\nIn 2015, a feature film titled \"Gareth Jones\", based on Jones' famine reporting, was announced. In April 2016 it was announced that the Oscar-nominated Polish director Agnieszka Holland would direct \"Gareth Jones\". English actor James Norton portrays Jones.\n\nOn 2 May 2006, a trilingual (Welsh/English/Ukrainian) plaque was unveiled in Gareth Jones' memory in the Old College at Aberystwyth University, in the presence of his niece Margaret Siriol Colley, and the Ukrainian Ambassador to the UK, Ihor Kharchenko, who described him as an \"unsung hero of Ukraine\". The idea for a plaque and funding were provided by the Ukrainian Canadian Civil Liberties Association, working in conjunction with the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain. Dr Lubomyr Luciuk, UCCLA's director of research, spoke at the unveiling ceremony.\n\nIn November 2008, Jones and fellow Holodomor journalist Malcolm Muggeridge were posthumously awarded the Ukrainian Order of Merit at a ceremony in Westminster Central Hall, by Dr Kharchenko, on behalf of the President of Ukraine for their exceptional service to the country and its people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41622079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41622079", "title": "Georgi Abadzhiev (cyclist)", "text": "Georgi Abadzhiev (cyclist)\n\nGeorgi Abadzhiev (, born 1892, date of death unknown) was a Bulgarian cyclist. He competed in two events at the 1924 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "162736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162736", "title": "Heterogamy", "text": "Heterogamy\n\nThe production of two type of gametes is called heterogamy. It is the type of sexual reproduction in which male gametes are small and motile while female gamete are large and non-motile. Female gametes contain stored food which is used in the early stage of development of new offspring.\n\nIn reproductive biology, heterogamy is the alternation of differently organized generations, applied to the alternation between parthenogenetic and a sexual generation. This type of heterogamy occurs for example in some aphids.\n\nAlternately, \"heterogamy\" or \"heterogamous\" is often used as a synonym of heterogametic, meaning the presence of two unlike chromosomes in a sex. For example, XY males and ZW females are called the heterogamous sex.\n\nIn cell biology, heterogamy is a synonym of anisogamy, the condition of having differently sized male and female gametes produced by different sexes or mating types in a species.\n\nIn botany, a plant is heterogamous when it carries at least two different types of flowers in regard to their reproductive structures, for example male and female flowers or bisexual and female flowers. Stamens and carpels are not regularly present in each flower or floret.\n\nIn sociology, heterogamy refers to a marriage between two individuals that differ in a certain criterion, and is contrasted with homogamy for a marriage or union between partners that match according to that criterion. For example, ethnic heterogamy refers to marriages involving individuals of different ethnic groups. Age heterogamy refers to marriages involving partners of significantly different ages. Heterogamy and homogamy are also used to describe marriage or union between people of unlike and like sex (or gender) respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "18505356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18505356", "title": "James Larkin White", "text": "James Larkin White\n\nJames Larkin White (July 11, 1882 – April 26, 1946), better known as Jim White, was a cowboy, guano miner, cave explorer, and park ranger for the National Park Service. He is best remembered as the discoverer, early promoter and explorer of what is known today as \"Carlsbad Caverns\" in Carlsbad Caverns National Park, New Mexico.\n\nJim White was born on July 11, 1882, on a ranch in Mason County, Texas. He started working in the cattle business at a very early age and preferred it to the school his father forced him to attend. He preferred \"bustin' broncos to books and blackboards\". One day, when Jim had had enough of school, he begged his father to let him do something else. \"I want to be a cowboy\", he said. So, when he was 10 years old, his father agreed to take him to the southeastern corner of the New Mexico Territory. He left him at the ranch of John and Dan Lucas (\"XXX Ranch\"). His father bought land at Lonetree, just west of the developing town of Eddy (Carlsbad today), and moved the rest of the family there three years later. Jim occasionally stayed at his family's small horse farm, but mostly lived and worked at the Lucas ranch.\n\nAn inscription reading \"J White 1898\" was discovered deep within Carlsbad Caverns in the 1980s. It provides witness to the presence of a 15- or 16-year-old Jim White.\n\nWhile riding his horse through the Chihuahuan Desert looking for stray cattle with a fence mending crew for the Lucas brothers, Jim saw a plume of bats rising from the desert hills. It appeared to be a volcano, or a whirlwind but did not behave quite like either. He tied his horse to a nearby tree and worked his way through the brush to the edge of a large opening in the ground. Jim described the moment by saying, \"I found myself gazing into the biggest and blackest hole I had ever seen, out of which the bats seemed literally to boil\".\n\nA few days later, he returned to the cave with some rope, fence wire and a hatchet. He cut wood from some nearby shrubs and assembled a makeshift ladder. He lowered the ladder into the opening and using a homemade kerosene lantern, descended approximately to the first serviceable ledge. He climbed down an additional to a floor. Using the \"sickly glow\" of his lantern, he made his way into the cave. He felt as if he \"... was wandering into the very core of the Guadalupe Mountains.\"\n\nAfter reaching a chamber, he noted two tunnels leading off in opposite directions, one downward and to the right and one, more level, to the left. He decided to go left first and discovered the Bat Cave. He explored it for a while then proceeded down the other tunnel.\n\nBy the time he reached the first formations, he had \"... crept cat-like across a dozen dangerous ledges and past many tremendous openings ...\". He saw more stalagmites, \"... each seemingly larger and more beautifully formed than the ones I'd passed\". He encountered chandeliers, stalactites, soda straws, flowstone, pools of water, rimstone dams and other formations. He dropped rocks into pits to determine their depth. He rolled one boulder into a pit and it fell for a couple of seconds and then \"... kept rolling and rolling until its sound became an echo\".\n\nThen the light from his homemade kerosene lantern went out. The darkness seemed to smother him. Jim described the incident by saying, \"It seemed as though a million tons of black wool descended upon me.\"\n\nAfter refilling his lantern from a spare canteen of oil, he made his way back to the surface.\n\nJim returned to the cave with a 15-year-old Mexican boy. His real name is unknown—he was known only as \"Muchacho\", \"The Kid\", or \"Pothead\".\n\nFive days after Jim's first trip into the cave, he and Pothead made an exploration. Carrying food, water, fuel and homemade torches, they began an exploration which lasted three days. They took a large ball of string to use to ensure their exit.\n\nThey explored approximately the same areas of the cave that the modern tourist trails cover including the Big Room, and the King's Palace and Queen's Chamber.\n\nThe original record of the early events surrounding Jim White and Carlsbad Caverns comes from a booklet, self-published in 1932, titled \"Jim White's Own Story\". The booklet was ghost written by Frank Ernest Nicholson in exchange for payment of a boarding bill. Nicholson was a journalist and led the ill-fated \"Nicholson Expedition\" to Carlsbad Caverns in 1929 sponsored by The New York Times.\n\nJim White had a permit with the National Park Service to sell the booklet from the Underground Lunchroom. Dennis Chavez, a U.S. Senator helped obtain the permit by putting pressure on the park. At first, the agreement was oral but later, it became more formal. Sales of the booklet ceased two months after Jim White's death.\n\nOne of the early guano companies dug a shaft making a more direct route to the guano deposits in the Bat Cave. It was serviced by a large iron bucket operated by a gasoline winch. This system was used to haul bags of guano out of the cave for use as fertilizer in places like the California fruit orchards. The guano was sold for 90 dollars a ton (). Jim White used the guano bucket to transport hundreds of tourists into and out of the cave.\n\nThe original guano bucket was used as the stand in the Underground Lunchroom from which Jim White sold his booklets. Jim White Jr. later gave it to a man named Charlie Dugger and it was stored in his garage.\n\nJim White married Fannie Hill on January 1, 1912. She was eighteen and a longtime friend from the town of Lonetree. Their first house was provided by the guano company. It was a \"... two room shack, set practically on top of the small bat cave, which was several hundred yards from the main cavern entrance.\" Jim and Fannie had a son named James Larkin White, Jr. on March 23, 1919. Jim moved his family into a four-room house provided by the guano company when Jim Jr. was about two years old. It was a few hundred feet farther from the cave entrance. They did not have running water at the house; instead, Jim would take a burro to Oak Springs and let it loose to find its way home with two cans of water on its back. Fannie would empty the water into a barrel when the burro returned. They did not get electricity until 1929 or 1930 and it was only on during the day.\n\nJim White died on April 26, 1946 in a hospital in Carlsbad, New Mexico at the age of 63. He suffered from Bright's disease and died of coronary thrombosis. He told a reporter for the \"Carlsbad Current-Argus\", two days before his death, that he felt well but was not ready to ride a horse to California, again. He is buried alongside his wife, Fannie, at Carlsbad Municipal Cemetery in Carlsbad. The epitaph on his tombstone reads \"The Discoverer of Carlsbad Caverns\".\n\nAfter his death, a movement was started to have a statue of Jim White erected at the cavern entrance. Instead, a bronze plaque was placed in the lobby at the park visitor center which reads:\n\nIn 2011, a large, bronze statue of Jim White descending a wire ladder was unveiled at the National Cave and Karst Research Institute (NCKRI) building in Carlsbad, New Mexico.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "382386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=382386", "title": "Johann Peter Salomon", "text": "Johann Peter Salomon\n\nJohann Peter Salomon (20 February 1745 [baptized] – 28 November 1815) was a German violinist, composer, conductor and musical impresario.\n\nHe was born in Bonn and was the second son of Philipp Salomon, an oboist at the court in Bonn. His birth home was at Bonngasse 515, coincidentally the later birth home of Beethoven. At the age of thirteen, he became a violinist in the court orchestra and six years later became the concert master of the orchestra of Prince Heinrich of Prussia. He composed several works for the court, including four operas and an oratorio. He moved to London in the early 1780s, where he worked as a composer and played violin both as a celebrated soloist and in a string quartet. He made his first public appearance at Covent Garden on 23 March 1781.\n\nWhile in England, Salomon composed two operas for the Royal Opera, several art songs, a number of concertos, and chamber music pieces. He is perhaps best known today, however, as a concert organiser and conductor.\n\nSalomon brought Joseph Haydn to London in 1791–92 and 1794–95, and together with Haydn led the first performances of many of the works that Haydn composed while in England. Haydn wrote his symphonies numbers 93 to 104 for these trips, which are sometimes known as the \"Salomon\" symphonies (they are more widely known as the London symphonies). Haydn's esteem for his impresario and orchestral leader can sometimes be seen in the symphonies: for example, the cadenza in the slow movement of the 96th and the phrase marked \"Salomon solo ma piano\" in the trio of the 97th; the Sinfonia Concertante in B-flat major was composed for Salomon, who played the solo violin part; and the six string quartets opp. 71 and 74, written between the two London visits in 1793, though dedicated to Count Apponyi, were clearly designed for the public performances that Salomon's quartet gave in London. Salomon is also said to have had a hand in providing Haydn with the original model for the text of \"The Creation\". He was one of the founder-members of the Philharmonic Society and led the orchestra at its first concert on 8 March 1813.\n\nSalomon is also believed to have given the \"Jupiter\" nickname to Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's \"Symphony No. 41\". Amongst his protégés was the English composer and soloist George Pinto.\n\nSalomon died in London in 1815, of injuries suffered when he was thrown from his horse. He is buried in the cloisters of Westminster Abbey.\n\nSalomon's violin playing was highly regarded in his day; for a collection of reviews, see Robbins Landon (1976, 24–27). Robbins Landon also praises his personal qualities: \"Salomon was not only a clever and sensitive impresario, he was also generous, scrupulously honest, and very efficient in business matters.\" Beethoven, who knew Salomon from his days in Bonn, wrote to Ries on hearing of his death, \"Salomon's death grieves me much, for he was a noble man, and I remember him since I was a child.\"\n\nSince 2011 the Royal Philharmonic Society has awarded the \"Salomon Prize\" to highlight talent and dedication within UK orchestras.\n\n"}
{"id": "16385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16385", "title": "Johann Philipp Abelin", "text": "Johann Philipp Abelin\n\nJohann Philipp Abelin was a German chronicler whose career straddled the 16th and 17th centuries. He was born, probably, at Strasbourg, and died there between 1634 and 1637. He wrote numerous histories under the pseudonyms of Abeleus, Philipp Arlanibäus, Johann Ludwig Gottfried and Gotofredus.\n\nHe worked mainly as a translator for the publishing house of Lucas Jennisius, Matthäus Merian and Friedrich Hulsius in Frankfurt. Some of his works, such as a history of India, proved later to be translations of other works. His own works consisted mainly of compilations of historical records.\n\nAbelin produced compilations of contemporary records and letters about the events of the wars of Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden without further historical commentary:\nIn the same style, his best known work was \"Theatrum Europaeum\", a series of chronicles of the chief events in the history of the world down to 1619, reedited, updated and republished several times, including a translation into Dutch. Its coincidence with the needs and tastes of the time, made it a very popular work. Abelin was responsible for the first two volumes. It was continued by various writers and grew to 21 volumes (1633–1738). However, the main interest of the volumes are the beautiful copperplate engraved illustrations of Matthäus Merian (1593–1650).\n\n"}
{"id": "3055565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3055565", "title": "Lewis Charles Levin", "text": "Lewis Charles Levin\n\nLewis Charles Levin (November 10, 1808 – March 14, 1860) was an American politician, Know Nothing, and anti-Catholic social activist of the 1840s and 1850s. He served three terms in the United States Congress (U.S. House of Representatives, 1845–51), representing Pennsylvania's 1st District. Levin is considered to have been the first Jewish Congressman, although David Levy Yulee served as a territorial representative from Florida prior to Levin's entering Congress. As a social activist he espoused and fashioned hatred for foreigners and the Catholics into a coherent idea. Levin become famous as a political orator and a mouthpiece of xenophobia.\n\nLewis Charles Levin was born in Charleston, South Carolina and graduated from South Carolina College (later the University of South Carolina) in 1828. He then briefly taught school in Woodville, Mississippi, but had to quit town after being wounded in a duel. Levin then practiced law in Maryland and Kentucky.\n\nBy 1838 Levin was in Philadelphia and giving public lectures on the evils of alcohol. He founded and edited a journal called the \"Temperance Advocate\". In 1842 he staged an immense public \"bonfire of booze\" to draw attention to his campaign against taverns and for local control of liquor licensing.\n\nLevin's anti-alcohol crusade proved to be excellent preparation for his next cause, a campaign against Catholic political power, which he carried on in two papers, the \"Native American\" and \"The Daily Sun\". Initially the main political issue was an 1843 public school ruling permitting Catholic children to be excused from Bible-reading class (because the Protestant King James Version was being used). Levin became the leader and chief spokesman for a start-up political movement calling itself the American Republican Party (later the Native American Party). On May 3, 1844 Levin attempted to give a speech in the center of the Irish-Catholic neighborhood of Kensington. The locals ended up chasing all of the protesters out of the neighborhood. The following Monday, May 6, Levin returned with 3,000 protesters. The ensuing fighting led to dozens of people killed, hundreds injured, and hundreds more left homeless as most of the neighborhood homes were burned by rioters. In addition the Catholic Churches St. Michael and St. Augustine were demolished completely by fire.\n\nNew riots broke out in Southwark in July of that same year when a group of protesters threatened to destroy St. Philip Neri Catholic Church in the Southwark District. This time Levin used his influence to prevent the mob from burning the Church. Following the July riots, Levin and his colleague Samuel R. Kramer (publisher of the \"Native American\") were arrested for \"exciting to riot and treason\" in inciting locals to invade and burn several Catholic churches and a convent. However, the case never went to trial.\n\nShortly after the 1844 Philadelphia riots, Levin ran for Congress and was elected on his party's platform: (1) to extend the period of naturalization to twenty-one years;\n(2) to elect only native born to all offices; (3) to reject foreign interference in all institutions, social, religious, and political.\n\nLevin was returned to Congress in 1846 and 1848. He served as chairman of the United States House Committee on Engraving during the Thirtieth Congress, 1847–48.\n\nLevin married Ann Christian Hays (b. 1812) of Virginia and Tennessee in January 1833. Ann was related by marriage to future Tennessee governor and US President James K. Polk (her uncle John Hays was married to Polk's younger sister Ophelia). Ann died a year later, in January 1834. Levin thereupon married a young widow named Julia Ann Gist, née Hammond (1814–1881) in Baltimore. Levin claimed to have met Julia while they were both shopping for tombstones for their late spouses.\n\nLewis and Julia Levin had one child, a daughter called Louise or Louisa (1840–1919). (It is occasionally reported erroneously that there was a son named Louis.) Louisa married a Brazilian diplomat named Carlos de Barros in Washington City in 1862, and later lived in South America, Philadelphia, and New York City. One of their sons and two grandsons were institutionalized in the 20th century for insanity.\n\nLevin's precise connection to his purported family in Charleston and Columbia, South Carolina is unclear. It has been claimed that the family records in Charleston were destroyed during an earthquake and fire in 1886. According to published family trees, Levin had a father, a brother, and two nephews also named Lewis C. Levin. However, these trees, and the published records of Jewish families listing the Levins, do not include the Lewis C. Levin who is the subject of this article—or, indeed, any member of the family born in or around 1808. One might speculate that Levin was a \"natural\" or illegitimate child and/or adoptee. According to some sources he was called Charles Lewis Levin when he taught school in Woodville, Mississippi in the late 1820s. If this is the case, it would appear he transposed his forenames after his presumptive elder brother, Lewis C. Levin, Jr., died in 1829. (Lewis C. Levin, Sr. had died in 1817.)\n\nAfter leaving Congress in 1851, Levin continued to campaign for the Native American or Know-Nothing movement, as it became known. He attempted to campaign for U.S. Senator, which prior to the 17th Amendment was a seat elected by the state legislature rather than by popular vote. Levin was accused of bribing members of the Pennsylvania Assembly and was subpoenaed by a state investigation in February 1855. The findings were inconclusive, but Levin never again held office.\n\nLevin and other Nativists helped tilt the 1852 Presidential election toward Democrat Franklin Pierce and away from the Whigs' candidate, the popular Mexican–American War leader General Winfield Scott. There were Catholics in Scott's family, and he was accused of papist connections. Levin was an organizing speaker of the first Know-Nothing Party convention in March 1855. Though in notably failing health, he was a featured speaker at the American Order's rally that autumn in a New York City park.\n\nLevin was enraged and disgusted by the new Republican Party's nomination of John C. Frémont for President at the convention in Philadelphia in June 1856. He wrote a lengthy diatribe against Frémont, which he delivered at a rally in Philadelphia's National Hall (now Independence Hall) shortly after Millard Fillmore had been nominated by both the Know Nothings and the Whigs. However, Frémont partisans pulled him off the stand.\n\nAccording to newspaper reports, Levin suffered a complete mental collapse and became so \"deranged\" that he was placed in the Philadelphia Hospital for the Insane.\n\nNewspapers report him being committed on a later occasion in June 1859, after a visit to a brother in Columbia, South Carolina. Levin is said to have become \"dangerous and unmanageable\" on the train to Richmond, whereupon friends and railway workers subdued him and detained him in the mail car. The nature of his madness is unclear, but one newspaper, expanding on a wire-service story, speculated, \"His insanity is supposed to have been brought about by an immoderate use of opium.\" He was returned to the Philadelphia Hospital for the Insane and died there of \"Insanity\" in March 1860. Levin was buried in Laurel Hill Cemetery, in Philadelphia.\n\nLewis Levin's role in a nativist party is sometimes deemed a paradox, despite the fact he was native-born himself (albeit first-generation). His opposition was not to immigration as such but rather to Catholicism; he eagerly sought support from non-Catholic immigrants. It is a mark of his skill that he was able to equate \"nativism\" with anti-Catholicism, and to do so in Philadelphia, where sectarian animosity had historically been minimal, and where native-born Catholics had lived side-by-side with Anglicans, Quakers, and others since the Colonial period.\n\nFor that matter Levin himself did not seem to have any personal sectarian animus, which suggests that his anti-Catholic activism was merely rhetorical and opportunistic. The explorer and soldier John Gregory Bourke (1846–1896), whose devoutly Catholic family were friends and neighbors of Levin's in 1840s and 1850s Philadelphia, recalled Levin fondly and wrote that the Bourke and Levin families were close for many years.\n\nSimilarly, Charles Nordhoff worked for Lewis Levin when he was a boy, around 1845, and recalled Levin as a kind, generous employer. A \"printer's devil\" for Levin's Daily Sun newspaper, Nordhoff really wanted to be a cabin boy on a US Navy ship going to China. Levin first warned the lad that he'd end up as a \"dirty, drunken old sailor,\" but relented at last, and intervened with Philadelphia Navy Yard commander, Commodore Jesse Elliot to get the boy a billet. Nordhoff's maritime and writing career was thereby launched.\n\nLevin was one of the most popular public speakers of his era, often quoted and anthologized, and painted by America's leading portraitist, Rembrandt Peale. In 1905 a veteran Pennsylvania journalist and politician, Alexander Kelly McClure, recalled Levin as one of the shrewdest and most persuasive politicians of the period :\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31562254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31562254", "title": "List of Gobots characters", "text": "List of Gobots characters\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of Gobots characters with information on their appearances, fictional biographies and histories.\n\nBad Boy is one of Cy-Kill's minions. He is a rough street punk always ready with an insult and looking for a fight. He is actually smarter than he lets on, preferring to let others underestimate him.\n\nLike most Gobots Bad Boy can change form, his alternate mode being a combat jet. He also has hand-blasters. his built-in repair systems can repair most injuries to his body if given enough energy.\n\nBad Boy is featured extensively in \"Wolf in the Fold\" episode #30. Using an image simulator circuit invented by Herr Fiend, Bad Boy is able to go under cover as the Guardian Heat Seeker. From inside the Guardians Bad Boy is able to leak information to the Renegades. Once it is discovered that there is a traitor among the Guardians Bad Boy tries to frame Leader-1 as the traitor, but he is uncovered by Scooter. Thanks to timely use of the astrobeam he escapes the Guardians.\n\nBad Boy appears in \"Cy-Kill Escapes\" episode #41 as he and Herr Fiend send a stealth device to the escaping renegades on the Gobot Prison Moon to cover their escape in a hidden ship.\n\nBad Boy appears in \"The Fall of Gobotron\" episode #43 as he and Block Head try to pick a fight with Turbo.\n\nBad Boy appears in \"Flight to Earth\" episode #44 where he and Block Head collect the Guardians on Cybertron and take them to prison.\n\nBad Boy appears in \"The Third Column\" episode #50 where he sides with Zero, who tries to take over the Renegades from Cy-Kill.\n\nBad Boy and Cop-Tur are sent to attack Unicom bases and distract the Guardians while Cy-Kill, Crasher and Scorp attempt to take the Power Suits. from the Command Center (possibly known as Stragetic Command).\n\nBad Boy has a cameo in \"Transcendent\" by Fun Publications which occurred at the same time as \"Withered Hope\". He can be seen standing in line for processing in Axiom Nexus.\n\nBad Boy is a main character appearing in \"Withered Hope\", a text and comic based story. Sent to investigate the effect the destroying their universe six Gobots are reformatted to look like an Autobots and Decepticons and sent through the Interfacer to the source of the disturbance - the 22nd level. They accidentally arrive on Transtech Cybertron where they are kept against their will in the city of Axiom Nexus. Bug Bite escapes without his allies using an astro beam device. While on Cybertron Bad Boy becomes friends with the Malignus gang. The remaining Gobots run afoul of the Transtech Decepticon General Demolishor in a criminal investigation but are aided by Airazor, Crystal Widow and Cheetor. The Gobots receive upgrades from the shop of Swindle, Swindle and Swindle and are able to leave the dimension thanks to stolen transit passes they obtain. Once they arrive on Earth of the 22nd level where they find Bug Bite and his new Decepticon allies Weirdwolf and Dreadwind.\n\nTwo toys were produced for Bad Boy. The first was released as a Gobot, based on the Machine Robo line from Japan. The second was a recolor of the Transformer Powerglide, released in Japan as an ehobby exclusive.\nBent Wing was one of the names in a word find that had to be solved to win a copy of the \"Challenge of the Gobots\" video game from \"Your Sinclair\" magazine.\n\nBlaster is a Guardian who turns into a missile launcher.\n\nBlaster appeared in the episode \"The Third Column\" where he works in a Guardian weapons facility that was attacked by the Renegades. The attack was turned away by automated defenses.\nBug Bite is a Renegade who has also appeared in the Transformers franchise as a recolor of the Autobot Bumblebee.\n\nBugsie was one of the names in a word find that had to be solved to win a copy of the \"Challenge of the Gobots\" video game from \"Your Sinclair\" magazine.\n\nBuggyMan is a Renegade Gobot who turns into a dune buggy. Some fiction refers to him as \"Buggy Boy\".\n\nBuggyMan appeared in the \"Challenge of the Gobots\" episode #5, \"The Final Conflict\" where he was among the Renegades captured on Gobotron.\n\nBuggyMan appears in \"Flight to Earth\" episode #44. He and Geeper-Creeper chase Scooter and Sparky on Gobotron.\n\nScooter and Small Foot join Nick and A.J. to watch a car stunt show which is attacked by Crasher, BuggyMan and Fly Trap. Small Foot fights BuggyMan and defeats him, but the Renegades regain the upper hand until the Guardians are rescued by Leader-1 and Turbo who arrive in their Power Suits\n\nCreepy is a renegade loyal to Cy-Kill who turns into a scorpion-like monster.\n\nCreepy, Scorp and Vamp aided the Master Renegade from escaping his imprisonment by Cy-Kill on Roguestar.\n\nCreepy appeared in the story \"Scooter's Mighty Magnet\" as one of Cy-Kill's minions.\n\nWhile a purple version of Creepy was sold in stores, a special green version was offered as a mail-away exclusive by sending in UPCs from four Gobots.\n\nDozer was one of the names in a word find that had to be solved to win a copy of the \"Challenge of the Gobots\" video game from \"Your Sinclair\" magazine.\n\nThe Guardians set up a lab to test their power suits on Earth. With Defendor and Blaster patrolling the lab Baron Von Joy and Path Finder test a new suit on Dozer.\n\nDozer appeared in the episode \"The Third Column.\"\n\nDumper is a fictional character in the Gobots toyline, and the subsequent \"Challenge of the Gobots\" cartoon that transforms from a Guardian into a dump truck.\n\nDumper was one of the names in a word find that had to be solved to win a copy of the \"Challenge of the Gobots\" video game from \"Your Sinclair\" magazine.\n\nDumper was chosen as the 9th goofiest Gobot name by Topless Robot.\n\nThe Guardians set up a lab to test their power suits on Earth. Cy-Kill, Cop-Tur, Crasher, Geeper-Creeper, Pincher, and Snoop attacked the lab, but it was defended by Leader-1, Baron Von Joy, Blaster, Dozer, Dumper, Road Ranger, Scooter, Scratch and Turbo. Although the Guardians were winning the battle, an accidental backfire from Baron Von Joy's weapon allowed the Renegades to escape.\n\nDumper was featured in the 1986 children's book \"Collision Course Comet - Robo Machine Featuring The Challenge Of Gobots\" where he fought the Renegade Gobot Crasher.\n\n\nFlip Top was featured on the cover of the 1985 Tonka Toy Catalog.\n\nGeeper-Creeper was one of the Renegade followers of Cy-Kill.\n\nGeeper-Creeper first appears in the series pilot.\n\nGeeper-Creeper appeared in the \"Challenge of the Gobots\" episode #5, \"The Final Conflict\" where he was among the Renegades captured on Gobotron.\n\nIn \"It's The Thought That Counts\" episode #6, Cy-Kill, Cop-Tur, Crasher, Geeper-Creeper, Pincher, and Snoop attack a lab, but it is defended by Leader-1, Baron Von Joy, Blaster, Dozer, Dumper, Road Ranger, Scooter, Scratch and Turbo. Although the Guardians are winning the battle, an accidental backfire from Baron Von Joy's weapon allows the Renegades to escape.\n\nIn \"The Fall of Gobotron\" episode #43 after Cy-Kill takes over Gobotron, Geeper-Creeper and Slicks are assigned to guard the modifier. They are lured away by Scooter and lead into a Guardian ambush by Turbo, Small Foot and Sparky.\n\nGeeper-Creeper appears in \"Flight to Earth\" episode #44. He and BuggyMan chase Scooter and Sparky on Gobotron.\n\nIn \"Destroy All Guardians\" episode #47, Geeper-Creeper and Tank are seen among Cy-Kill's guards on the Roguestar. He also appears in \"Escape from Elba\" episode #48. In \"Clutch of Doom\" episode #50, Geeper-Creeper is among the Renegades who put the captured Guardians Blaster and Van Guard in prison. Geeper-Creeper appears in \"The Third Column\" episode #51 where he sides with Zero, who tries to take over the Renegades from Cy-Kill.\nGrungy is a Power Warrior and a Renegade combiner forged by Renegade-augmenting Power Suits and their central spaceship.\n\nGrungy was chosen as the 3rd goofiest Gobot name by Topless Robot.\n\nHerr Fiend is the name of a fictional character from the various Gobots series. He is an evil Renegade scientist, and is also known as Doctor Go.\n\nHerr Fiend is one of the Renegades. He is the resident Renegade mad scientist, and is depicted as speaking with a thick German accent.\n\nHis alternate mode of a Porsche 928 is identical to the Decepticon Transformers named Dead End.\n\nIn the animated Gobots series Herr Fiend is given the name \"Doctor Go.\"\n\nDoctor Go appears in \"Battle for Gobotron\" episode #1. Due to animation errors the Renegade Doctor Go appears identical to Zeemon in the pilot series.\n\nIn \"Doppleganger\" episode #23 Cy-Kill has Doctor Go program robot duplicates of the Guardians using recordings he made of the real Guardians. When demonstrating the Space Bender weapon to Unicom, Leader-1 learns that the Renegades are attacking Washington. The Renegades ambush Leader-1 and replace him with his duplicate. Leading the Command Center back to Gobotron and getting rid of Scooter and Small Foot the Renegades then release duplicates of Path Finder, Rest-Q, Van Guard and Turbo. Small Foot and Scooter are able to capture the Turbo duplicate and learn where their friends are being held. Cy-Kill then replaces Good Night. Using the duplicate Turbo the Guardians infiltrate the Renegade base, free the captured Guardians and escape from Spoons and Fitor. Although blocked by the Renegades, Scooter uses a hologram of Zod to make the Renegades flee. Making it back to Gobotron the Guardians are attacked by the Guardian duplicates. The real Guardians are able to defeat their duplicates with the aid of the real Zeemon, Hans-Cuff and Rest-Q. Cy-Kill then arrives in Thrustor with more duplicates, but Small Foot is able to stop with robots using the Space Bender device, which fuses their robot brains.\n\nDoctor Go and Bad Boy send a stealth device to the escaping renegades on the Gobot Prison Moon to cover their escape in a hidden ship.\n\nDoctor Go appears in the feature film \"\" where he uses the brain stormer on the female Rock Lord Solitaire. Due to animation errors in the film Doctor Go appears to resemble Baron Von Joy in the film, meanwhile in some scenes the Guardian Zeemon appears is occasionally depicted like Doctor Go.\n\n\nHornet was among the Renegade Gobot forces who aided the Rock Lord Magmar on the planet Cordax.\n\nLeader-1 is the name of several fictional characters from the Go-Bots, Robo Machines and Transformers media properties. In the GoBots universe, Leader-1 is the leader of the Guardians. In the Transformers universe Leader-1 was the partnered Mini-Con to Megatron.\n\nLoco is one of the soldiers of Cy-Kill. The word \"loco\" means \"crazy\" in Spanish.\n\nLoco was one of the names in a word find that had to be solved to win a copy of the \"Challenge of the Gobots\" video game from \"Your Sinclair\" magazine.\n\nLoco was a long-serving Renegade, fighting in the defence of the Renegades' fortress on Gobotron. He was used sporadically after that, most notably helping the cyborg arms dealer Trident hijack a shipment of UNICOM materials. Loco appeared in \"Renegade Carnival\" episode 52.\n\nLoco appeared in the Eagle Comics story \"The Robo Machines\". He is a member of the Renegade Robo Machines working for Strom Domez.\n\nLoco’s toy was a re-release of the Machine Robo \"Steam Robo\" figure (MR-05). It was first issued in 1983, and was available until the end of 1984. It was also released in Europe.\n\nMonstrous, or Monsterous (with an \"e\"), is a Renegade made up of six Renegades who combine to turn into a monster.\n\nA Guardian Gobot who turns into a police motorcycle. This toy was the inspiration for the Transformers character Backtrack.\n\nNight Ranger was chosen as the 10th goofiest Gobot name by Topless Robot.\n\nPincher is a Renegade Gobot voiced by Peter Cullen.\n\nPincher was one of the names in a word find that had to be solved to win a copy of the \"Challenge of the Gobots\" video game from \"Your Sinclair\" magazine.\n\nCy-Kill, Cop-Tur, Crasher, Geeper-Creeper, Pincher, and Snoop attack a lab, but it is defended by Leader-1, Baron Von Joy, Blaster, Dozer, Dumper, Road Ranger, Scooter, Scratch and Turbo. Although the Guardians were winning the battle, an accidental backfire from Baron Von Joy's weapon allows the Renegades to escape.\nPincher was possibly once a Guardian Gobot, but was captured, then remade and reprogrammed by Herr Fiend into one of Cy-Kill's minions.\n\nPincher was among the Renegade Gobot forces who aided the Rock Lord Magmar on the planet Cordax.\n\nPsycho is a Renegade. His design is based on the Psychodroid car from Japanese manga series \"Cobra\", which became the anime series \"Cobra: Space Adventure\".\n\nPsycho cameo in \"The Battle for Gobotron\", and a short but memorable scene in \"The Gobotron Saga\", where he got to conduct the disassembling of Leader-1. He also appeared on the cover to the VHS release of \"Cy-Kill's Shrinking Ray.\"\n\nPsycho is ordered by Cy-Kill to issue the Renegade retreat.\nPumper is a Guardian who turns into a fire engine and served on Command Center 6.\n\nPumper was chosen as the 8th goofiest Gobot name by Topless Robot.\n\nPuzzler is Renegade made up of six other Renegade cars who combine into one gigantic robot.\n\nPuzzler was initially solicited as a Guardian, not a Renegade.\n\nPuzzler appears in \"Auto Madic\" episode #28, where the Guardians don Power Suits to form the Power Warrior Courageous, which defeats Puzzler.\n\nRest-Q is the Guardian medic.\n\nIn \"It's The Thought That Counts\" episode 6 Scooter is briefly captured by the Renegades. After being freed Rest-Q checks out Scooter, but Scooter refused to be examined, secretly being brainwashed by the Renegades. Rest-Q appeared in \"Ultra Zod\" episode 14, where he donned a Power Suit and helped form the Power Warrior Courageous, which defeated Ultra Zod. In \"Doppleganger\" episode 23 leading the Command Center back to Gobotron and getting rid of Scooter and Small Foot the Renegades then released duplicates of Path Finder, Rest-Q, Van Guard and Turbo. Later the real Guardians were able to defeat their duplicates with the aid of the real Zeemon, Hans-Cuff and Rest-Q. Rest-Q appeared in \"Cy-Kill Escapes\" episode 41. He repaired Hans-Cuff, who was injured in the Renegade prison break. In \"The Fall of Gobotron\" episode 43 Rest-Q repaired Small Foot. Rest-Q appeared in \"Flight to Earth\" episode 44. Captured by the Renegades, Rest-Q wasn't even allowed to repair the other prisoner Guardians, instead being threatened by Twin Spin with his blades. He was later rescued by Scooter and Sparky.\n\nRest-Q appeared in \"GoBots: Battle of the Rock Lords\".\n\nRest-Q appeared in the Eagle Comics story \"The Robo Machines\". He is a member of the Security Force Robo Machines.\n\nRoad Ranger is a fictional character from the various Gobots series and later became part of the Transformers series. He is a heroic Guardian Gobot who turns into a semi-truck and was introduced in 1984.\n\nRoad Ranger is one of the Guardians Go-Bots, he later disguises himself as an Autobot. Road Ranger's alternate mode is that of a semi-truck. He can fly in robot mode and has hand-mounted blasters.\n\nRoad Ranger first appears in \"Wolf in the Fold\" episode #30 of \"Challenge of the Gobots\".\n\nRoad Ranger appears in \"The Third Column\" episode #42, where he works in a Guardian weapons facility that was attacked by the Renegades. The attack was turned away by automated defenses.\n\nIn episode #58, \"It's The Thought That Counts\" Cy-Kill, Cop-Tur, Crasher, Geeper-Creeper, Pincher, and Snoop attack the lab, but it is defended by Leader-1, Baron Von Joy, Blaster, Dozer, Dumper, Road Ranger, Scooter, Scratch and Turbo. Although the Guardians are initially winning the battle, an accidental backfire from Baron Von Joy's weapon allows the Renegades to escape.\n\nRoad Ranger has a cameo in \"Transcendent\" which occurred at the same time as \"Withered Hope\". He can be seen standing in line for processing in Axiom Nexus.\n\nRoad Ranger, is a main character appearing in Fun Publications fiction \"Withered Hope\", a text and comic based story. Sent to investigate the effect the destroying their universe six Gobots are reformatted to look like an Autobots and Decepticons and sent through the Interfacer to the source of the disturbance - the 22nd level. They accidentally arrive on Transtech Cybertron where they are kept against their will in the city of Axiom Nexus. Bug Bite escapes without his allies using an astro beam device. The remaining Gobots run afoul of the Transtech Decepticon General Demolishor in a criminal investigation but are aided by Airazor, Crystal Widow and Cheetor. The Gobots receive upgrades from the shop of Swindle, Swindle and Swindle and are able to leave the dimension thanks to stolen transit passes they obtain. Once they arrive on Earth of the 22nd level where they find Bug Bite and his new Decepticon allies Weirdwolf and Dreadwind.\n\nRoad Ranger appeared in the 1985 Robo Machine book \"The Wagner Sirens\".\n\nRoad Ranger appeared under the name Truck in the Eagle Comics story \"The Robo Machines\". He is a member of the Security Force Robo Machines.\n\n\nScorp is a Renegade Gobot loyal to the Master Renegade.\n\nCreepy, Scorp and Vamp aided the Master Renegade from escaping his imprisonment by Cy-Kill on Roguestar.\n\nSmall Foot is a fictional character from the various Gobots series and later became part of the Transformers universes. Her name is a parody of the famous monster truck Bigfoot.\n\nSmall Foot is a female Gobot. Small Foot is one of Leader-1's most trusted soldiers. A tracker, what she lacks in size she more than makes up for in heart and determination. Small Foot can often be seen kicking around with Scooter but she idolizes Leader-1 and is often found fighting by his side. Trouble often finds her wherever she is. Sometimes with all of her determination Small Foot becomes impulsive and eager to please the older and more experienced Guardian soldiers.\n\nIn robot mode she can fire energy shots from the two lamps on her chest. She converts into a pickup truck. She has a tow-cable with hook that she uses in both modes.\n\nSmall Foot was featured in one of the early Gobots commercials.\n\nThe Autobot Small Foot is based on the Gobots characters of the same name.\n\nSmall Foot makes her debut in the episode \"Trident's Triple Threat\". Small Foot's impulsiveness runs away with her in this episode when she tries to take on three Renegades at once. Crasher, and Cop-Tur beat her up so severely that Turbo has to carry her back to their base in his arms.\n\nSmall Foot's impulsiveness almost cost her life when the Guardians accidentally released the Master Renegade thinking that he was the Last Engineer. The Master Renegade took Small Foot hostage and kept the other Guardians at bay while he tried to fly away in their command center with Crasher. With Turbo's help Small Foot escaped from the Master Renegade but she paid a terrible price. Rest-Q checked out all of Small Foot's internal structures and was shocked when he discovered that Small Foot's transforming protocol was completely gone after the initial carnage that was inflicted upon her by the Master Renegade. It was as if Small Foot never went through the modifier, a machine that gives Gobots the ability to transform into vehicles after they leave the Guardian Academy, leading Matt Hunter to ask if Small Foot can be put through the modifier again. Rest-Q warns that such a thing has never been done before but there are no other options. Baron Von Joy and Rest-Q look on as Small Foot's transformation mechanism is repaired. When the job is done, Baron Von Joy asks Small Foot if she can transform. When she does she takes Matt, Nick, and A.J. back the Guardian HQ so that she may get to her battle station. However, the lone Gobot who was later joined by Scooter and Turbo never made it back to base. Instead the Renegades blasted a hole in the ground in front of them and Small Foot and Turbo crashed through a wall and stopped short of another wall while poor Scooter couldn't stop and slammed into a glass partition. It is within the glass partition that the Guardian trio and their human companions found the man that they believed is The Last Engineer and brought him back to Guardian H.Q.\n\nSmall Foot is among the Go-Bots who defend their world against the bug-like invaders in \"Invasion from the 21st Level\" episode #21-22.\n\nCy-Kill, Cop-Tur, Crasher and Snoop attacked Leader-1, Turbo, Scooter and Small Foot. Crasher wounded Small Foot. After attaining recordings of the Guardians the Renegades retreated. Using the recordings Cy-Kill had Herr Fiend program robot duplicates of the Guardians. When demonstrating Space Bender weapon to Unicom Leader-1 learned that the Renegades were attacking Washington. The Renegades ambushed Leader-1 and replaced him with his duplicate. Leading the Command Center back to Gobotron and getting rid of Scooter and Small Foot; the Renegades then released duplicates of Path Finder, Rest-Q, Van Guard and Turbo. Small Foot and Scooter were able to capture the Turbo duplicate and learn where their friends were being held. Cy-Kill then replaced Good Night. Using the duplicate Turbo the Guardians infiltrated the Renegade base, freed the captured Guardians and escape from Spoons and Fitor. Although blocked by the Renegades, Scooter used a hologram of Zod to make the Renegades flee. Making it back to Gobotron the Guardians were attacked by the Guardian duplicates. The real Guardians were able to defeat their duplicates with the aid of the real Zeemon, Hans-Cuff and Rest-Q. Cy-Kill then arrived in Thrustor with more duplicates, but Small Foot was able to stop with robots using the Space Bender, which would fuse their robot brains.\n\nIn \"Scooter Enhanced\" episode #24 Scooter and Small Foot join Nick and A.J. to watch a car stunt show which is attacked by Crasher, BuggyMan and Fly Trap. Small Foot fights BuggyMan and defeats him, but the Renegades regain the upper hand until the Guardians are rescued by Leader-1 and Turbo who arrive in Power Suits. Cy-Kill vowes to gain Power Suits for the Renegades. Scooter decides he needs more firepower, so he has Baron Von Joy remove his damaged holo projector in favor of a blaster unit. Screw Head, Bad Boy and Cop-Tur are sent to attack Unicom bases and distract the Guardians while Cy-Kill, Crasher and Scorp attempt to take the suits from the Guardian Command Center. Small Foot and Scooter are able to delay the Renegades until Leader-1 and Turbo return to chase away the Renegades. Realizing he is a better Guardian with his holo projector, Scooter has it reinstalled.\n\nSmall Foot investigates the Renegade escape from the Gobot Prison Moon.\n\nIn \"The Fall of Gobotron\" episode #43 after Cy-Kill takes over Gobotron, Geeper-Creeper and Slicks are assigned to guard the modifier. They are lured away by Scooter and lead into a Guardian ambush by Turbo, Small Foot and Sparky.\n\nSmall Foot appears in \"Flight to Earth\" episode #44.\n\nSmall Foot appears in \"Return of Gobotron\" episode #45. She witnesses the Last Engineer creating new Power Suits for the Guardians. She is later given one of the Power Suits, which features enhanced sensors. She combines with the other suits and the Last Engineer's ship to form the Power Warrior Courageous and defeat a fleet of Renegade Thrustors.\n\nSmall Foot appears in \"\".\n\nSent to investigate the effect the destroying their universe six Gobots (including Small Foot) are reformatted to look like an Autobots and Decepticons and sent through the Interfacer to the source of the disturbance - the 22nd level. They accidentally arrive on Transtech Cybertron where they are kept against their will in the city of Axiom Nexus. Bug Bite escapes without his allies using an astro beam device. The remaining Gobots run afoul of the Transtech Decepticon General Demolishor in a criminal investigation but are aided by Airazor, Crystal Widow and Cheetor. The Gobots receive upgrades from the shop of Swindle, Swindle and Swindle and are able to leave the dimension thanks to stolen transit passes they obtain. Once they arrive on Earth of the 22nd level where they find Bug Bite and his new Decepticon allies Weirdwolf and Dreadwind.\n\nSmall Foot has a cameo in \"Transcendent\" which occurred at the same time as \"Withered Hope\". She can be seen standing in line for processing in Axiom Nexus.\n\n\nA Guardian Gobot who turns into a Space Shuttle.\n\nSpoons is one of the soldiers of the Renegade leader Cy-Kill. He turns into a forklift. Spoons was the inspiration for the Transformers Decepticon Deadlift.\n\nSpoons appears in the episode #23, called \"Doppelganger\". He worked with Doctor Go (aka Herr Fiend) in transporting a robot duplicate of Leader-1 the doctor had created. Later when the Guardians are escaping Renegade capture Fitor and Spoons try to stop them, but fail.\nStaks is a Guardian Gobot who turns into a semi-truck.\n\nStaks appears in \"Auto Madic\" episode #28, where he dons a Power Suit and helped form the Power Warrior Courageous, which defeats Puzzler.\n\nTank(Man) is one of Cy-Kill's minons. His great physical strength and firepower mean he is often used to support the Renegades' operations. Tank is larger than most Gobots, and has considerable firepower. In tank mode, he can drive through walls or over cars without it even slowing him. His physical attributes are outweighed by his low intelligence.\n\nTank first appeared in the \"Challenge of the Gobots\" series pilot.\n\nHe was placed in command of the mind-controlled US. Army during Cy-Kill's first attempt to invade Earth, but was unable to successfully hunt down Turbo and Scooter in New York. Soon afterwards, he returned to Gobotron and was captured along with the other Renegades based in their fortress.\n\nTank appeared in \"Flight to Earth\" episode 44. Tank appeared in \"Return of Gobotron\" episode 45. In \"Destroy All Guardians\" episode 47 Geeper-Creeper and Tank were seen among Cy-Kill's guards on the Roguestar.\n\nTank appeared in the Eagle Comics story \"The Robo Machines\". He is a member of the Renegade Robo Machines working for Strom Domez.\nTork is a Guardian and one of the Secret Riders who turns into a Ford Ranger.\n\nTork was chosen as the 5th goofiest Gobot name by Topless Robot.\n\nTreds, or Treads with an \"A\", is one of the Guardian Gobots. He was featured in a 1986 Gobots commercial where he was named as one of the new Guardians along with Mr. Moto. He turns into a M1 Abrams tank, and later a M551 Sheridan light tank.\n\nTreds appears in \"Et Tu Cy-Kill?\" episode #60, where he and Tri-Trak help Leader-1's team track down the Renegades on an alien planet.\n\nTreds is a main character appearing in Fun Publications fiction \"Withered Hope\", a text and comic-based story. Sent to investigate the effect the destroying their universe six Gobots are reformatted to look like an Autobots and Decepticons and sent through the Interfacer to the source of the disturbance - the 22nd level. Treds was chosen to imitate a Decepticon so he could keep an eye on the Renegades Bad Boy and Bug Bite. They accidentally arrive on Transtech Cybertron where they are kept against their will in the city of Axiom Nexus. Bug Bite escapes without his allies using an astro beam device. The remaining Gobots run afoul of the Transtech Decepticon General Demolishor in a criminal investigation but are aided by Airazor, Crystal Widow and Cheetor. The Gobots receive upgrades from the shop of \"Swindle, Swindle and Swindle\" and are able to leave the dimension thanks to stolen transit passes. Once they arrive on Earth of the 22nd level where they find Bug Bite and his new Decepticon allies Weirdwolf and Dreadwind.\n\nTreds has a cameo in \"Transcendent\" which occurred at the same time as \"Withered Hope\". He can be seen standing in line for processing in Axiom Nexus.\n\nTwo toys were produced for Treds. The first was released as a Gobot. The second as a Transformer, which was a recolor of the Autobot Warpath.\n\nVamp is a female Renegade Gobot who works for Cy-Kill. She can fire blasts of energy from her eyes.\n\nVamp and Scooter were featured on the cover of issue #2 of the Gobots Magazine.\n\nCreepy, Scorp and Vamp aided the Master Renegade from escaping his imprisonment by Cy-Kill on Roguestar.\n\nVamp appeared in the story \"Scooter's Mighty Magnet\" as one of Cy-Kill's minions.\n\nVamp appeared Casmodon in the Eagle Comics story \"The Robo Machines\". He was one of the Devil Invaders.\nWater Walk was one of the names in a word find that had to be solved to win a copy of the \"Challenge of the Gobots\" video game from \"Your Sinclair\" magazine.\n\nWater Walk was chosen as the 6th goofiest Gobot name by Topless Robot.\n\nZeemon is one of the Guardians. He is a prominent Guardian leader.\n\nZeemon first appears in the \"Challenge of the Gobots\" series pilot. He is among the leaders of the Guardians planning to stop the Renegades. Due to animation errors the Renegade Herr Fiend appears identical to Zeemon in the pilot series.\n\nZeemon appears in \"Lost on Gobotron\" episode #11. Zeemon appears in \"Genius and Son\" episode #17. He plans to surrender the planet to Cy-Kill to avoid it being destroyed by the Renegade. In \"Doppleganger\" episode #23, the real Guardians were able to defeat their duplicates with the aid of the real Zeemon, Hans-Cuff and Rest-Q. Zeemon appears in \"Nova Beam\" episode #54 working with Staks and Pathfinder on Gobotron when information came in that the sun of the planet Nirolac had become unstable. Zeemon appears in \"Et Tu Cy-Kill?\" episode 60. Zeemon appears in \"GoBots: Battle of the Rock Lords\". Due to animation errors he sometimes is depicted as the Renegade Herr Fiend.\n\nZod is a fictional character in the \"Gobots\" and \"Machine Robo\" story and toy line.\n\nZod is a giant, even among his fellow Gobots. Savage and bestial, he is one of Cy-Kill's most powerful weapons. Zod is considered the \"Godzilla\" of the Gobots.\n\nZod is left on Gobotron during Cy-Kill's initial trip to Earth. He orders Fitor to not use Zod against the Guardians, as he will have use of him later.\n\nThe Power Warrior Courageous defeats Ultra Zod.\n\nScooter used a hologram of Zod to make the Renegades flee.\n\nIn the \"Eagle\" comic strip \"Robo Machines\", Cy-Kill performed an operation on his master to convert him into Zod. Zod attacked the Command Centre, shooting down Royal-T, and later killing Carry-All. Zod still possessed the intellect of Stron-Domez, and was able to design the Devil Invaders, and oversee construction of the first Casmodon. However, soon after his stabilisers were disabled after being attacked by the Security Forces, and Cy-Kill abandoned him.\n\n"}
{"id": "54043830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54043830", "title": "List of complications of pregnancy", "text": "List of complications of pregnancy\n\nObstetric complications are those complications that develop during pregnancy. A woman may develop an infection, syndrome or complication that is not unique to pregnancy and that may have existed before pregnancy. Pregnancy often is complicated by preexisting and concurrent conditions. Though these pre-existing and concurrent conditions may have great impact on pregnancy, they are not included in the following list.\n\n"}
{"id": "49822862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49822862", "title": "Meat tenderness", "text": "Meat tenderness\n\nTenderness is a quality of meat gauging how easily it is chewed or cut. Tenderness is a desirable quality, as tender meat is softer, easier to chew, and generally more palatable than harder meat. Consequently, tender cuts of meat typically command higher prices. The tenderness depends on a number of factors including the meat grain, the amount of connective tissue, and the amount of fat. Tenderness can be increased by a number of processing techniques, generally referred to as \"tenderizing\" or \"tenderization\".\n\nTenderness is perhaps the most important of all factors impacting meat eating quality, with others being flavor, juiciness, and succulence.\n\nTenderness is a quality complex to obtain and gauge, and it depends on a number of factors. On the basic level, these factors are meat grain, the amount and composition of connective tissue, and the amount of fat. In order to obtain a tender meat, there is a complex interplay between the animal's pasture, age, species, breed, protein intake, calcium status, stress before and at killing, and how the meat is treated after slaughter.\n\nMeat with the fat content deposited within the steak to create a \"marbled\" appearance has always been regarded as more tender than steaks where the fat is in a separate layer. Cooking causes melting of the fat, spreading it throughout the meat and increasing the tenderness of the final product.\n\nThe meat industry strives to produce meat with standardized and guaranteed tenderness, since these characteristics are sought for by the consumers. For that purpose a number of objective tests of tenderness have been developed, gauging meat resistance to shear force, most commonly used being \"Slice Shear Force\" test and \"Warner–Bratzler Shear Force\" test.\n\nTechniques for breaking down collagens in meat to make it more palatable and tender are referred to as \"tenderizing\" or \"tenderization\".\n\nThere are a number of ways to tenderize meat:\n\nEfforts have been made since at least 1970 to use explosives to tenderize meat and a company was founded to try to commercialize the process; as of 2011 it was not yet scalable.\n"}
{"id": "56906363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56906363", "title": "Memtransistor", "text": "Memtransistor\n\nThe memtransistor is an experimental multi-terminal electronic component that might be used in the construction of artificial neural networks. It is a combination of the memristor and transistor. Applications of memristor technology is limited by it being a two terminal device. The multiple connections of the memtransistor enable it to more accurately model a neuron with its multiple synaptic connections. A neural network produced from these would provide hardware-based artificial intelligence with a good foundation.\n\nResearchers at Northwestern University have fabricated a seven-terminal device fabricated on molybdenum disulfide (). One terminal controls the current between the other six.\n"}
{"id": "24459501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24459501", "title": "Mencius (book)", "text": "Mencius (book)\n\nThe Mencius (; Old Chinese: \"*mˤraŋ-s tsəʔ\"; ) is a collection of anecdotes and conversations of the Confucian thinker and philosopher Mencius on topics in moral and political philosophy, often between Mencius and the rulers of the various Warring States. Mencius was a disciple of one of the students of Zisi, a grandson of Confucius, and the \"Mencius\" records his travels and audiences with the various rulers of the Warring States period, his students, and his other contemporaries. A number of linguistic and textual clues suggest that the text was not written by Mencius himself but by his disciples, probably during the late 4th century BC.\n\nThe \"Mencius\" comprises seven chapters, each divided into two halves, with alternating short sayings and extensive dialogues on specific philosophical arguments. Its fundamental positions, such as Mencius' famous argument in chapter 6A that human nature is inherently good, are usually presented as conversations between Mencius and contemporaneous thinkers, while arguments on specific issues usually appear in records of his advice and counsel to various rulers. His argument that inborn potential tends towards virtue contrasts with the position of contemporary figure Yang Zhu who argued that that human nature is motivated by self interest. \n\nThe \"Mencius\" was one of the most important texts of early Confucianism, and represents a notable advance over the \"Analects of Confucius\" (\"Lunyu\" 論語) in terms of sophistication of argument. Notwithstanding its early importance to Confucianism, the \"Mencius\" was not canonized as one of the Chinese Classics until over 1,000 years later in Song dynasty Neo-Confucianism. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37209374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37209374", "title": "Mercy shot", "text": "Mercy shot\n\nA mercy shot is a final shot delivered in an execution. It follows after at least one original shot intended to mortally wound or kill the victim. It is considered \"merciful\" in the sense that it ends the physical suffering of the person being executed. The use of the mercy shot is not universal; due to limited compassion for the victims or due to limited available ammunition, some execution victims are left to die of their wounds or are simply buried alive, without a mercy shot.\n"}
{"id": "25668512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25668512", "title": "Mikkel Aaland", "text": "Mikkel Aaland\n\nMikkel Aaland (born 1952) is a Norwegian-American photographer, based in San Francisco and Norway, and is known for work in the early days of digital photography, as well as his twelve books on photography. He is best known for his 1978 book \"Sweat\", an illustrated history of sweat bathing. His documentary photographs have been exhibited in major institutions around the world, including the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris and the former Lenin Museum in Prague. Aaland is the author of works of memoir, books featuring his own photojournalism as well as works on digital imaging and various Adobe Photoshop products.\n\nAaland was born in San Francisco and grew up in nearby Livermore, California. His Norwegian born father worked as a scientist at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory research facility. Aaland was an Eagle Scout who attended Livermore High School, where he played football. He graduated from California State University in Chico with a major in photojournalism and was an All-American swimmer on the NCAA Division II championship team.\n\nIn 1978 Aaland published his first book, \"Sweat: The Illustrated History and Description of the Finnish Sauna, Russian Bania, Islamic Hammam, Japanese Mushi-buro, Mexican Temescal, and American Indian & Eskimo Sweat Lodge\". The book was the culmination of a three-year travel and photo-journalistic tour of the world's various bathing customs. Aaland continues to be an active proponent and historian of sweat bathing. \n\nAaland published his second nonfiction book, \"County Fair: Portraits\" (1981) after spending nine years traveling the United States visiting county fairs. Jon Carroll wrote in \"New West\" magazine, \"(County Fair) is a chronicle of people being who they are. These faces become historical.\" The photographer Mary Ellen Mark said of the book: \"Such moving photographs, funny and sad. It's real Americana. Aaland is a latter day Mike Disfarmer.\" In 1982 Aaland appeared as a guest on the \"David Letterman Show\", sharing work from both \"Sweat\" and \"County Fair\".\n\nDuring an interview in 1981 Aaland was introduced to the newly emerging field of digital photography by renowned photographer Ansel Adams. Aaland soon became the West Coast editor of the Swedish \"FOTO\" magazine. He contributed articles and photos for other publications such as \"American Photographer\", \"American Photo\", \"Digital Creativity\", \"Newsweek\", \"The Washington Post\", \"Popular Science\", and \"Wired\". In 1981 he received the National Art Directors award for photography.\n\nOne of the first to write about digital photography, Aaland released the book \"Digital Photography\" (1992). The book gives instruction and tips on using digital cameras to take unique photographs. He followed that with \"Still Images in Multimedia\" (1996) and then \"Shooting Digital: Pro Tips for Taking Great Pictures with Your Digital Camera\" (2003), which was named by Designer's Bookshelf as \"Best Digital Photography Book of the Year for 2004.\"\n\nAaland eventually joined academia, lecturing about photography at Stanford University, Drexel University, and UC Berkeley. He also spoke at computer graphics conferences around the country. Aaland has been the co-host of the Nordic Light International Festival of Photograph since 2011.\n\nBeginning in 2001, Aaland began publishing a number of guidebooks about using the computer design program Photoshop to enhance digital photography; \"Photoshop Elements Solutions: The Art of Digital Photography\" was followed by second, third, and fourth volumes. He also acted as an unpaid adviser to the development of both the alpha, beta, and final versions of the Adobe Photoshop Elements application. \"Photoshop CS2 RAW: Using Adobe Camera Raw, Bridge, and Photoshop to Get the Most Out of Your Digital Camera\" (2006) was Aaland's first of two books explaining the graphic file format RAW, which is used by professional photographers.\n\nWhile working as an adviser on the photo editing software for Adobe Systems Lightroom's beta tests, Aaland proposed a real-world test of the software by inviting professional photographers to travel to a far-off land where they would use Lightroom. The result of this was \"Photoshop Lightroom Adventure: Mastering Adobe's Next-generation Tool for Digital Photographers\" (2007). Aaland followed up that book the same year with \"Photoshop Lightroom 2 Adventure: Mastering Adobe's Next-generation Tool for Digital Photographers\", which brought professionals to Tasmania to show users how photographers work with the Lightroom 2 software.\n\nIn a diversion from photography instruction, Aaland published \"The Sword of Heaven: A Five Continent Odyssey to Save the World\" (1999), detailing the six years he spent traveling around the world documenting a peace project initiated by survivors of Hiroshima and led by a Shinto priest. During this time, Aaland dropped brick-sized pieces of a holy Shinto Sword of Heaven into bodies of water around the world to form a protective ring of kami.\n\nAaland’s most recent book, \"The River in My Backyard\", is an illustrated memoir exploring his family history, the murder of his father, and his pilgrimage to Mount Kailash.\n\nAaland, as the author of \"Sweat: The Illustrated History and Description of the Finnish Sauna, Russian Bania, Islamic Hammam, Japanese Mushi-buro, Mexican Temescal, and American Indian & Eskimo Sweat Lodge,\" is recognized as an authority on sweat bathing. In 2014 Aaland organized the Perfect Sweat Summit in San Francisco, bringing together 50 international experts on sweat bathing. Aaland is currently filming a travel documentary series, \"Perfect Sweat\", which combines his career-long interests in photography, travel, and sweat bathing. The documentary series is an exploration of bathing traditions around the world, and revisits the topic of his 1978 book \"Sweat\". \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22723240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22723240", "title": "Parallel constraint satisfaction processes", "text": "Parallel constraint satisfaction processes\n\nParallel constraint satisfaction processes (PCSP) is a model that integrates the fastest growing research areas in the study of the mind; Connectionism, neural networks, and parallel distributed processing models.\n\nThis model integrates these three areas to propose a holistic explanation for an individual’s response to cognitive dissonance. It models an explanation of the dynamic structure of attitudes and the attitude change involved in cognitive dissonance theory. PCSP posits that beliefs impose constraints on other beliefs, and conditions can either constrain or make salient different aspects of one’s beliefs. Attitudes and beliefs are therefore changeable, due to trying to satisfactorily fit with the various constraints of circumstances as well as adapt to the constantly evolving truths in life. It is not an alternative to the theory but rather a model that incorporates the many facets of cognitive dissonance theory.\nCognitive dissonance theory centers mainly on:\n\nHuman beings may give greater importance to one of these areas but no single factor will be the sole influence. The different theories are probably all accurate given the right time, the right place, and the right individual, therefore an integrated more holistic model may better explain the reasons for attitude/behavior inconsistency and the change of attitude following cognitive dissonance.\n\nResearchers (Read 1991) have found within Gestalt psychology an integrated model of explaining attitude change that incorporates neuroscientific and social psychological concepts.\nTheories of cognitive dissonance as well as its alternatives are based on the assumption that the attitudes and beliefs one holds are fixed entities. Recently psychologists have progressed from categorizing psychological phenomena as static, to recognizing the dynamic aspects that vary with different contexts. \nThe concept of neural network models uses the Gestalt principle of totality to explain social, emotional and cognitive tendencies.\n\nIn a feedback or parallel constraint satisfaction network, activation passes around symmetrically connected nodes until the activation of all the nodes asymptotes or \"relaxes\" into a state that satisfies the constraints among the nodes. This process allows for the integration of a number of different sources of information in parallel.\n\nParallel constraint satisfaction processes can be applied to three broad areas in social psychology:\n\n\nThis approach revealed that some phenomena that seem unexpected or counterintuitive are in actuality due to the normal functioning of the cognitive system. For example, Shultz and Lepper (1996) noted that in thinking about cognitive dissonance in terms of parallel constraint satisfaction processes, it becomes clear that cognitive consistency phenomena—such as those studied by dissonance researchers—are not the result of atypical or unusual cognitive processes but rather are the direct result of normal cognitive functioning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4392492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4392492", "title": "Paschal mystery", "text": "Paschal mystery\n\nThe Paschal mystery is one of the central concepts of Catholic faith relating to the history of salvation. Its main subject is the passion, death, and Resurrection of Jesus Christ – the work God the Father sent His Son to accomplish on earth. According to the Compendium of the Catechism of the Catholic Church, \"The Paschal Mystery accomplished once for all by the redemptive death of His Son Jesus Christ.\" The Catechism states that in the liturgy of the Church which revolves around the seven sacraments, \"it is principally his own Paschal mystery that Christ signifies and makes present.\" \n\nCatholic, Anglican and Orthodox Christian churches celebrate this mystery on Easter. It is recalled and celebrated also during every Eucharist, and especially on a Sunday, which is the Pascha of the week.\n\nThe word \"paschal\" is the equivalent of Greek \"pascha\" and is derived from Aramaic \"pasḥā\" and Hebrew \"pesaḥ\", meaning \"the passing over\" (cf. Ex 12:13.23.27; cf. Is 31,5). The origin is not known. Some scholars refer to Assyrian \"pasah\" – \"appease\" or Egyptian \"pa-sh\" – remembrance or \"pē-sah\" – \"the blow\". The Bible links \"pesaḥ\" with \"pāsaḥ\" – two literal meanings are: \"to limp\" and to perform a ritual dance around a sacrifice (1 K 18:21.26). Figuratively it may be understood, \"to jump\", \"to pass\", \"to spare\". It refers to the passage of God on the Passover night, when the Israelites left Egypt. God struck the houses of Egyptians and left the Israelites untouched, i.e. \"passed over\".\n\nThe second word, 'mystery', is regarded in Christian 20th-century theology as one of the most important key-words of Christianity and its theology. It opposes the ideas of Gnosticism, Rationalism and Semi-Rationalism, pointing out that there are Divine mysteries (properly called) which cannot be grasped by mere human reasoning and can only be revealed by God through grace. In this meaning \"mystery\" describes not an idea that must be unlocked or solved like a novel, but the Divine truth and life, to which God through the Church, sacraments, word of God and faith, initiates the dedicatees. (cf. Eph 1,17ff)\n\nThe very first known use of the term \"Paschal mystery\" (literally \"Mystery of the Pascha\") was found in the homily of Melito of Sardis \"On the Pascha\" written between A.D. 160 and 170:\n<poem>\n</poem>\nAccording to Raniero Cantalamessa OFMCap, patristic interpretation of the paschal mystery in its major facets and constituent dimensions may be summarised in four points:\n\nTo underscore the importance of the Paschal mystery, the Compendium of the Catechism of the Catholic Church, states that \"The Paschal Mystery of Jesus, which comprises his passion, death, resurrection, and glorification, stands at the center of the Christian faith because God's saving plan was accomplished once for all by the redemptive death of his Son Jesus Christ.\"\n\nAccording to Pope Benedict XVI, the most important and essential message of the council is \"the Paschal Mystery as the center of what it is to be Christian and therefore of the Christian life, the Christian year, the Christian seasons\". The term \"Mysterium paschale\" was used repeatedly during Second Vatican Council (1963–65) as a meaningful designation of the Christian redemption proclaimed and now accomplished in the liturgy. Council Fathers endorsed the fruit of the work of scholars of the Liturgical Movement, specifically Dom Odo Casel and the whole Maria Laach school. The term \"mystery of salvation\" made its way to the Council documents not without some opposition or misunderstanding. Some fathers expressed doubts saying that it was a vague and chimeric idea, its orthodoxy was dubious, and that it was ignored by sound theology. Eventually the Council decided to confirm the importance of the term. It is reflected especially in the Constitution on the liturgy \"Sacrosanctum Concilium\". In the very beginning of 1st chapter, where the Council document speaks about \"restoration and promotion\" of the liturgy, \"paschal mystery\" is shown as the way Christ has redeemed mankind:\n\nAfter Second Vatican Council the term \"Paschal mystery\" has been used by Catholic Church Magisterium as one of basic concepts of Christian faith and life.\n\nThe Catechism of the Catholic Church states that \"The Paschal mystery of Christ's cross and Resurrection stands at the center of the Good News that the apostles, and the Church following them, are to proclaim to the world. God's saving plan was accomplished 'once for all' by the redemptive death of his Son Jesus Christ.\" (CCC 571) \n\nIn explaining the sacramental system of the church or the sacramental economy, the Catechism dedicates one chapter on the Paschal Mystery in the Age of the Church. It teaches that \"In the liturgy of the Church, it is principally his own Paschal mystery that Christ signifies and makes present. During his earthly life Jesus announced his Paschal mystery by his teaching and anticipated it by his actions. When his Hour comes, he lives out the unique event of history which does not pass away: Jesus dies, is buried, rises from the dead, and is seated at the right hand of the Father 'once for all.'\n\n\"His Paschal mystery is a real event that occurred in our history, but it is unique: all other historical events happen once, and then they pass away, swallowed up in the past. The Paschal mystery of Christ, by contrast, cannot remain only in the past, because by his death he destroyed death, and all that Christ is - all that he did and suffered for all men - participates in the divine eternity, and so transcends all times while being made present in them all. The event of the Cross and Resurrection abides and draws everything toward life.\" (CCC 1085) \n\nIt also explains that \"The Paschal mystery has two aspects: by his death, Christ liberates us from sin; by his Resurrection, he opens for us the way to a new life. This new life is above all justification that reinstates us in God's grace, 'so that as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.'Justification consists in both victory over the death caused by sin and a new participation in grace. It brings about filial adoption so that men become Christ's brethren.\" (CCC 654) \n\nIn 1992 letter \"Communionis notio\" of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith to the bishops about the Church understood as communion, \"paschal mystery\" is explained as the means by which God's initiative was carried out to bring to disciples of Christ and, indeed, to the whole of mankind the gift of communion.\n\nJohn Paul II in his letter on keeping the Lord's day holy wrote that to celebrate Sunday is to make present the graces of the Paschal Mystery, which is the climax of the salvation history:\n\nThe document called \"Instrumentum Laboris\", issued before the Synod on the Eucharist (2005), spoke about perception of the Eucharistic mystery among the faithful. In many developed countries Christians fail to see the Eucharist as a celebration of the paschal mystery. They tend to perceive it as simply the fulfilment of a Sunday obligation and a meal of fellowship. The paschal mystery, \"celebrated in an unbloody manner on the altar\", is much more a source of spiritual strength to those Christians who live in the situation of suffering, wars, and natural disasters etc.\n\nDuring the 2005 Synod, Pope Benedict XVI and bishops emphasised the need for \"the faithful to enter more deeply into the mystery being celebrated\". They called for a process of mystagogy, i.e. initiation into the mystery of Salvation. According to the Pope's exhortation published after the Synod, initiation into the mystery of the liturgy should respect three elements:\n\nPope called for new communities and movements to assist in the practical realisation of that programme in parishes:\nAmong the new communities of consecrated life which contribute to the Christian formation there are e.g. Community of St. John, Community of the Lamb, Monastic Fraternities of Jerusalem and others. The Pope spoke also about new movements and groups working in the field of Christian formation. Among internationally active there are e.g. Charismatic Renewal, Communion and Liberation, Community of the Beatitudes, Community of the Chemin Neuf, Community of Sant'Egidio, Emmanuel Community, Focolare Movement, Neocatechumenal Way, Opus Dei, etc. These communities, movements and groups have emerged in the 20th century on the grounds of Second Vatican Council's renewal of the Church.\n\nThe concept of the paschal mystery is criticised by the traditionalists. According to the address of the Superior of the Society of St. Pius X, Bishop Bernard Fellay (2001), \"the theology of the \"paschal mystery\" minimizes the mystery of the Redemption, because it considers the sacrament only in its relation with the \"mystery\", and because the conception that it makes of the \"memorial\" alters the sacrificial dimension of the Mass\" and as a consequence it \"renders the post-Conciliar Liturgy dangerously distant from Catholic doctrine\". Card. Joseph Ratzinger and Jonathan Robinson CO show that the traditionalists put themselves in a false position, overlooking the fact that the Vatican II's teaching about this issue restored a profoundly traditional doctrine, central to Christian thought and experience.\n\nProtestant view of grace and salvation was influenced very much by nominalism of William Ockham's \"razor\". In Martin Luther's opinion Ockham was the only scholastic whose teaching was worth studying. Rejection of traditional Metaphysics, and especially the universals, paved the way to modern empiricism. In this nominalistic Protestant view of relationship between God and creation, the mystery of God becomes utterly unattainable for human reason, even if it is illumined by faith. While traditional understanding of the mystery of faith is that the Divine revelation can use human word, somehow assimilating the Word of God, to initiate man into the mystery of the divine life, according to Louis Bouyer, the Protestant view excludes such approach. Revelation of the mystery of salvation to man is compatible with traditional philosophy, like Thomism, and incompatible with the Protestant view of grace, influenced by nominalism.\n\nPaschal mystery embraces several events of Jesus' passing away from this world. They are central to the Christian Creed.\n\nJesus sacrificed his life by freely accepting death on the cross and being put in a tomb. In experiencing death and overcoming it in resurrection, Christ assures us that we will have life everlasting with God as we too, through Christ's accomplishment as our representative, will triumph over death and pass into eternal life with the resurrection of the glorified body.\n\nThree days after he died and was buried, Jesus was raised from the dead with a new and glorified body. All four Gospels of the New Testament clearly give an account of the resurrection. This event is at the heart of faith in Christ (see 1 Corinthians 15:3-5).\n\nForty days after the resurrection, the risen Christ ascended to the Father in Heaven, God's domain. From there, Christ, who is hidden from our eyes, will come again in glory at the end of time to judge the living and the dead. Through the Ascension and Exaltation of Christ, humanity has been given the unbreakable promise of everlasting life with God. \nThrough the Paschal Mystery everything has been justified and made right in Christ with God. Jesus came to fulfil and perfect the covenant of God, and to assure all that God's love is eternal and constant.\n\n\"As Jesus truly dies and is buried, how we should be filled with wonder! Seamlessly the sadness of Christ’s death gives way to the joy of the Resurrection as Easter dawns upon us\" (Compendium, 126).\n\nLoyolapress.com/our catholic - The Paschal Mystery in Every Day Life\n"}
{"id": "22169269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22169269", "title": "Pet Club: Inu Daisuki!", "text": "Pet Club: Inu Daisuki!\n\nThe object of the game is to nurture the dog from puppyhood into adulthood and even into old age. There are many breeds of pets and there are several different kinds of young female avatars to control. First, the player must give the master a name; this is followed by giving the dog a name. Names be inserted using either hiragana, katakana or using the ASCII letters traditionally given to most European languages; this applies to both naming the dog and the owner.\n\nDogs must be taken for walks and given plenty of physical exercises, training in addition to lessons that teach them discipline. If neglected, the dog will hold his head up in the air and refuse to take orders from the player. Competition from the computer player's dog provides a reason for the player to give her dog adequate training and discipline without making the pet overly tired or hungry.\n\nPet Club: Inu Daisuki! is a part of the Japan-exclusive \"Kid's Gear\" line of video games for the Game Gear.\n"}
{"id": "25270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25270", "title": "Quine (computing)", "text": "Quine (computing)\n\nA quine is a non-empty computer program which takes no input and produces a copy of its own source code as its only output. The standard terms for these programs in the computability theory and computer science literature are \"self-replicating programs\", \"self-reproducing programs\", and \"self-copying programs\".\n\nA quine is a fixed point of an execution environment, when the execution environment is viewed as a function transforming programs into their outputs. Quines are possible in any Turing complete programming language, as a direct consequence of Kleene's recursion theorem. For amusement, programmers sometimes attempt to develop the shortest possible quine in any given programming language.\n\nThe name \"quine\" was coined by Douglas Hofstadter, in his popular science book \"\", in honor of philosopher Willard Van Orman Quine (1908–2000), who made an extensive study of indirect self-reference, and in particular for the following paradox-producing expression, known as Quine's paradox:\n\"Yields falsehood when preceded by its quotation\" yields falsehood when preceded by its quotation.\nIn some languages, particularly scripting languages, an empty source file is a fixed point of the language, being a valid program that produces no output. Such an empty program, submitted as \"the world's smallest self reproducing program\", once won the \"worst abuse of the rules\" prize in the International Obfuscated C Code Contest.\n\nThe idea of self-reproducing automata came from the dawn of computing, if not before. John von Neumann theorized about them in the 1940s. Later, Paul Bratley and Jean Millo's article \"Computer Recreations: Self-Reproducing Automata\" discussed them in 1972.\nBratley first became interested in self-reproducing programs after seeing the first known such program written in Atlas Autocode at Edinburgh in the 1960s by the University of Edinburgh lecturer and researcher Hamish Dewar.\n\nThe \"download source\" requirement of the Affero General Public License is based on the idea of a quine.\n\nIn general, the method used to create a quine in any programming language is to have, within the program, two pieces: (a) code used to do the actual printing and (b) data that represents the textual form of the code. The code functions by using the data to print the code (which makes sense since the data represents the textual form of the code), but it also uses the data, processed in a simple way, to print the textual representation of the data itself.\n\nThe following Java code demonstrates the basic structure of a quine.\npublic class Quine\nThe source code contains a string array of itself, which is output twice, once inside quotation marks.\n\nThe same idea is used in the following SQL quine:\n\nSELECT REPLACE(REPLACE('SELECT REPLACE(REPLACE(\"$\",CHAR(34),CHAR(39)),CHAR(36),\"$\") AS Quine',CHAR(34),CHAR(39)),CHAR(36),'SELECT REPLACE(REPLACE(\"$\",CHAR(34),CHAR(39)),CHAR(36),\"$\") AS Quine') AS Quine\nA very concise quine with the same basic structure can be written in Lua:\n\nx = \"x = [\" .. \"[\" .. x .. \"]\" .. \"]\\nprint(\" .. x)\nprint(\"x = [\" .. \"[\" .. x .. \"]\" .. \"]\\nprint(\" .. x)\n\nAnd in Python:\ns = 's = %r\\nprint(s%%s)'\nprint(s%s)\n\nAs a one-liner in Matlab:\n\ns='disp(char([115,61,39,s,39,59,s]));';disp(char([115,61,39,s,39,59,s]));\nAs a one-liner in C:\n\nActually another shorter one:\n\nIn SAS: \n\nSAS Metadata Program:\n/* Assign Macro Variables */\n%Let DSN=sashelp.cars ;\n%Let Var=Type ;\n%Let Option_1=nopct ;\n%Let Option_2=nocum ;\n\n/* Assign Output Fileref */\nFilename outpgm 'E:\\Data-driven Program.sas' ;\n\n/* DATA Step to Produce External SAS Program */\nDATA _NULL_ ;\nRUN ;\n\nResults:\n/* Substitute Variable Names with Macro Variables */\ntitle Display NLevels for Type with PROC FREQ ;\nproc freq data=sashelp.cars nlevels ;\nrun ;\nIn Scala:\n\nobject Quine extends App {\n\nIn R:\n\nm<-\"m<-0;cat(sub(0,deparse(m),m))\";cat(sub(0,deparse(m),m))\nIn Rust:\n\nfn main() {\n\nIn Go:\n\npackage main\n\nimport \"fmt\"\n\nfunc main() {\n\nvar s = `package main\n\nimport \"fmt\"\n\nfunc main() {\n\nvar s = `\nIn OCaml:\n(fun s -> Printf.printf \"%s%S;;\\n\" s s) \"(fun s -> Printf.printf \\\"%s%S;;\\\\n\\\" s s) \";;\nIn Haskell:\nmain = putStr s » print s where s = \"main = putStr s » print s where s = \"\nIn Kotlin:\nval a=\"val a=%c%s%c%nprint(a.format(34,a,34))\"\nprint(a.format(34,a,34))\nQuines can take advantage of codice_1. For example, this Ruby quine:\n\neval s=\"print 'eval s=';p s\"\n\nIn TI-BASIC, if the last line of a program is value returning, the returned value is displayed on the screen. Therefore, a program containing a single digit results in a 1-byte quine. \n\n<syntaxhighlight>\n1\n</syntaxhighlight>\n\nQuines, per definition, cannot receive \"any\" form of input, including reading a file, which means a quine is considered to be \"cheating\" if it looks at its own source code. The following shell script is not a quine:\n\ncat $0\nNor is this succinct use of the Shebang:\n\nThe above also applies to this JavaScript code:\n\nfunction a() {\na()\nIn PHP:\n<? highlight_file(__FILE__) ?>\n\nIn Python:\nprint(open(__file__).read())\n\nA program in the joke language HQ9+ is a quine if and only if the source code consists only of zero or more '+' characters and a single 'Q' character (the 'Q' command prints a quine and '+' prints nothing):\n\nOne of the shortest cheating quines is provided by Forth, which has a built-in command to read its own source:\n\nAn even shorter cheating quine exists on many 1980s home computers (such as the ZX Spectrum and the Commodore 64) as follows:\n\nAnother even shorter cheating quine in bash:\nIn C:\n\n/*#include <stdlib.h>*/\nmain() {\n/* system(\"pause\");*/\n\nOther questionable techniques include making use of compiler messages; for example, in the GW-BASIC environment, entering \"Syntax Error\" will cause the interpreter to respond with \"Syntax Error\". Ignoring the restriction that quines be non-empty, there are many examples of programming languages where an empty program is valid (such as C). Such programs generally do nothing, in effect, reproducing the program.\n\nThe quine concept can be extended to multiple levels of recursion, originating \"ouroboros programs\", or quine-relays. This should not be confused with Multiquines.\n\nThis Java program outputs the source for a C++ program that outputs the original Java code.\nSuch programs have been produced with various cycle lengths:\n\n\nDavid Madore, creator of Unlambda, describes multiquines as follows:\n\"A multiquine is a set of r different programs (in r different languages — without this condition we could take them all equal to a single quine), each of which is able to print any of the r programs (including itself) according to the command line argument it is passed. (Note that cheating is not allowed: the command line arguments must not be too long — passing the full text of a program is considered cheating).\"\nA multiquine consisting of 2 languages (or biquine) would be a program which:\n\nA biquine could then be seen as a set of two programs, both of which are able to print either of the two, depending on the command line argument supplied.\n\nTheoretically, there is no limit on the number of languages in a multiquine,\na 5-part multiquine (or pentaquine) has been produced with Python, Perl, C, NewLISP, and F#\nand there is also a 25-language multiquine.\n\nA radiation-hardened quine is a quine that can have any single character removed and still produce the original program with no missing character. Of necessity, such quines are much more convoluted than ordinary quines, as is seen by the following example in Ruby:\neval='eval$q=%q(puts %q(10210/#{1 1 if 1==21}}/.i rescue##/\n\n1 1\"[13,213].max_by{|s|s.size}#\"##\").gsub(/\\d/){[\"=\\47eval$q=%q(#$q)#\\47##\\47\n\nexit)#'##'\n\ninstance_eval='eval$q=%q(puts %q(10210/#{1 1 if 1==21}}/.i rescue##/\n\n1 1\"[13,213].max_by{|s|s.size}#\"##\").gsub(/\\d/){[\"=\\47eval$q=%q(#$q)#\\47##\\47\n\nexit)#'##'\n\n/#{eval eval if eval==instance_eval}}/.i rescue##/\n\neval eval\"[eval||=9,instance_eval||=9].max_by{|s|s.size}#\"##\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3242434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3242434", "title": "Retinal implant", "text": "Retinal implant\n\nRetinal prostheses for restoration of sight to patients blinded by retinal degeneration are being developed by a number of private companies and research institutions worldwide. The system is meant to partially restore useful vision to people who have lost their photoreceptors due to retinal diseases such as retinitis pigmentosa (RP) or age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Three types of retinal implants are currently in clinical trials: epiretinal (on the retina), subretinal (behind the retina), and suprachoroidal (between the choroid and the sclera). Retinal implants introduce visual information into the retina by electrically stimulating the surviving retinal neurons. So far, elicited percepts had rather low resolution, and may be suitable for light perception and recognition of simple objects.\n\nFoerster was the first to discover that electrical stimulation of the occipital cortex could be used to create visual percepts, phosphenes. The first application of an implantable stimulator for vision restoration was developed by Drs. Brindley and Lewin in 1968. This experiment demonstrated the viability of creating visual percepts using direct electrical stimulation, and it motivated the development of several other implantable devices for stimulation of the visual pathway, including retinal implants. Retinal stimulation devices, in particular, have become a focus of research as approximately half of all cases of blindness are caused by retinal damage. The development of retinal implants has also been motivated in part by the advancement and success of cochlear implants, which has demonstrated that humans can regain significant sensory function with limited input.\n\nThe Argus II retinal implant, manufactured by Second Sight Medical Products received market approval in the USA in Feb 2013 and in Europe in Feb 2011, becoming the first approved implant. The device may help adults with RP who have lost the ability to perceive shapes and movement to be more mobile and to perform day-to-day activities. The epiretinal device is known as the Retina Implant and was originally developed in Germany by Retina Implant AG. It completed a multi-centre clinical trial in Europe and was awarded a CE Mark in 2013, making it the first wireless epiretinal electronic device to gain approval.\n\nOptimal candidates for retinal implants have retinal diseases, such as retinitis pigmentosa or age-related macular degeneration. These diseases cause blindness by affecting the photoreceptor cells in the outer layer of the retina, while leaving the inner and middle retinal layers intact. Minimally, a patient must have an intact ganglion cell layer in order to be a candidate for a retinal implant. This can be assessed non-invasively using optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging. Other factors, including the amount of residual vision, overall health, and family commitment to rehabilitation, are also considered when determining candidates for retinal implants. In subjects with age-related macular degeneration, who may have intact peripheral vision, retinal implants could result in a hybrid form of vision. In this case the implant would supplement the remaining peripheral vision with central vision information.\n\nThere are two main types of retinal implants by placement. Epiretinal implants are placed in the internal surface of the retina, while subretinal implants are placed between the outer retinal layer and the retinal pigment epithelium.\n\nEpiretinal implants are placed on top of the retinal surface, above the nerve fiber layer, directly stimulating ganglion cells and bypassing all other retinal layers. Array of electrodes is stabilized on the retina using micro tacks which penetrate into the sclera. Typically, external video camera onto eyeglasses acquires images and transmits processed video information to the stimulating electrodes via wireless telemetry. An external transmitter is also required to provide power to the implant via radio-frequency induction coils or infrared lasers. The real-time image processing involves reducing the resolution, enhancing contrast, detecting the edges in the image and converting it into a spatio-temporal pattern of stimulation delivered to the electrode array on the retina. The majority of electronics can be incorporated into the associated external components, allowing for a smaller implant and simpler upgrades without additional surgery. The external electronics provides full control over the image processing for each patient.\n\nEpiretinal implants directly stimulate the retinal ganglion cells, thereby bypassing all other retinal layers. Therefore, in principle, epiretinal implants could provide visual perception to individuals even if all other retinal layers have been damaged.\n\nSince the nerve fiber layer has similar stimulation threshold to that of the retinal ganglion cells, axons passing under the epiretinal electrodes are stimulated, creating arcuate percepts, and thereby distorting the retinotopic map. So far, none of the epiretinal implants had light-sensitive pixels, and hence they rely on external camera for capturing the visual information. Therefore, unlike natural vision, eye movements do not shift the transmitted image on the retina, which creates a perception of the moving object when person with such an implant changes the direction of gaze. Therefore, patients with such implants are asked to not move their eyes, but rather scan the visual field with their head. Additionally, encoding visual information at the ganglion cell layer requires very sophisticated image processing techniques in order to account for various types of the retinal ganglion cells encoding different features of the image.\n\nThe first epiretinal implant, the ARGUS device, included a silicon platinum array with 16 electrodes. The Phase I clinical trial of ARGUS began in 2002 by implanting six participants with the device. All patients reported gaining a perception of light and discrete phosphenes, with the visual function of some patients improving significantly over time. Future versions of the ARGUS device are being developed with increasingly dense electrode arrays, allowing for improved spatial resolution. The most recent ARGUS II device contains 60 electrodes, and a 200 electrode device is under development by ophthalmologists and engineers at the USC Eye Institute. The ARGUS II device received marketing approval in February 2011 (CE Mark demonstrating safety and performance), and it is available in Germany, France, Italy, and UK. Interim results on 30 patients long term trials were published in \"Ophthalmology\" in 2012. Argus II received approval from the US FDA on April 14, 2013 FDA Approval.\nAnother epiretinal device, the Learning Retinal Implant, has been developed by IIP technologies GmbH, and has begun to be evaluated in clinical trials. A third epiretinal device, EPI-RET, has been developed and progressed to clinical testing in six patients. The EPI-RET device contains 25 electrodes and requires the crystalline lens to be replaced with a receiver chip. All subjects have demonstrated the ability to discriminate between different spatial and temporal patterns of stimulation.\n\nSubretinal implants sit on the outer surface of the retina, between the photoreceptor layer and the retinal pigment epithelium, directly stimulating retinal cells and relying on the normal processing of the inner and middle retinal layers. Adhering a subretinal implant in place is relatively simple, as the implant is mechanically constrained by the minimal distance between the outer retina and the retinal pigment epithelium. A subretinal implant consists of a silicon wafer containing light sensitive microphotodiodes, which generate signals directly from the incoming light. Incident light passing through the retina generates currents within the microphotodiodes, which directly inject the resultant current into the underlying retinal cells via arrays of microelectrodes. The pattern of microphotodiodes activated by incident light therefore stimulates a pattern of bipolar, horizontal, amacrine, and ganglion cells, leading to a visual perception representative of the original incident image. In principle, subretinal implants do not require any external hardware beyond the implanted microphotodiodes array. However, some subretinal implants require power from external circuitry to enhance the image signal.\n\nA subretinal implant is advantageous over an epiretinal implant in part because of its simpler design. The light acquisition, processing, and stimulation are all carried out by microphotodiodes mounted onto a single chip, as opposed to the external camera, processing chip, and implanted electrode array associated with an epiretinal implant. The subretinal placement is also more straightforward, as it places the stimulating array directly adjacent to the damaged photoreceptors. By relying on the function of the remaining retinal layers, subretinal implants allow for normal inner retinal processing, including amplification, thus resulting in an overall lower threshold for a visual response. Additionally, subretinal implants enable subjects to use normal eye movements to shift their gaze. The retinotopic stimulation from subretinal implants is inherently more accurate, as the pattern of incident light on the microphotodiodes is a direct reflection of the desired image. Subretinal implants require minimal fixation, as the subretinal space is mechanically constrained and the retinal pigment epithelium creates negative pressure within the subretinal space.\n\nThe main disadvantage of subretinal implants is the lack of sufficient incident light to enable the microphotodiodes to generate adequate current. Thus, subretinal implants often incorporate an external power source to amplify the effect of incident light. The compact nature of the subretinal space imposes significant size constraints on the implant. The close proximity between the implant and the retina also increases the possibility of thermal damage to the retina from heat generated by the implant. Subretinal implants require intact inner and middle retinal layers, and therefore are not beneficial for retinal diseases extending beyond the outer photoreceptor layer. Additionally, photoreceptor loss can result in the formation of a membrane at the boundary of the damaged photoreceptors, which can impede stimulation and increase the stimulation threshold.\n\nOptobionics was the first company to develop a subretinal implant and evaluate the design in a clinical trial. Initial reports indicated that the implantation procedure was safe, and all subjects reported some perception of light and mild improvement in visual function. The current version of this device has been implanted in 10 patients, who have each reported improvements in the perception of visual details, including contrast, shape, and movement. Retina Implant AG in Germany has also developed a subretinal implant, which has undergone clinical testing in nine patients. Trial was put on hold due to repeated failures. The Retina Implant AG device contains 1500 microphotodiodes, allowing for increased spatial resolution, but requires an external power source. Retina implant AG reported 12 months results on the Alpha IMS study in Feb 2013 showing that six out of nine patients had a device failure in the nine months post implant Proceedings of the royal society B, and that five of the eight subjects reported various implant-mediated visual perceptions in daily life. One had optic nerve damage and did not perceive stimulation. The Boston Subretinal Implant Project has also developed several iterations of a functional subretinal implant, and focused on short term analysis of implant function. Results from all clinical trials to date indicate that patients receiving subretinal implants report perception of phosphenes, with some gaining the ability to perform basic visual tasks, such as shape recognition and motion detection.\n\nThe quality of vision expected from a retinal implant is largely based on the maximum spatial resolution of the implant. Current prototypes of retinal implants are capable of providing low resolution, pixelated images.\n\n\"State-of-the-art\" retinal implants incorporate 60-100 channels, sufficient for basic object discrimination and recognition tasks. However, simulations of the resultant pixelated images assume that all electrodes on the implant are in contact with the desired retinal cell; in reality the expected spatial resolution is lower, as a few of the electrodes may not function optimally. Tests of reading performance indicated that a 60-channel implant is sufficient to restore some reading ability, but only with significantly enlarged text. Similar experiments evaluating room navigation ability with pixelated images demonstrated that 60 channels were sufficient for experienced subjects, while naïve subjects required 256 channels. This experiment, therefore, not only demonstrated the functionality provided by low resolution visual feedback, but also the ability for subjects to adapt and improve over time. However, these experiments are based merely on simulations of low resolution vision in normal subjects, rather than clinical testing of implanted subjects. The number of electrodes necessary for reading or room navigation may differ in implanted subjects, and further testing needs to be conducted within this clinical population to determine the required spatial resolution for specific visual tasks.\n\nSimulation results indicate that 600-1000 electrodes would be required to enable subjects to perform a wide variety of tasks, including reading, face recognition, and navigating around rooms. Thus, the available spatial resolution of retinal implants needs to increase by a factor of 10, while remaining small enough to implant, to restore sufficient visual function for those tasks.\n\nClinical reports to date have demonstrated mixed success, with all patients report at least some sensation of light from the electrodes, and a smaller proportion gaining more detailed visual function, such as identifying patterns of light and dark areas. The clinical reports indicate that, even with low resolution, retinal implants are potentially useful in providing crude vision to individuals who otherwise would not have any visual sensation. However, clinical testing in implanted subjects is somewhat limited and the majority of spatial resolution simulation experiments have been conducted in normal controls. It remains unclear whether the low level vision provided by current retinal implants is sufficient to balance the risks associated with the surgical procedure, especially for subjects with intact peripheral vision. Several other aspects of retinal implants need to be addressed in future research, including the long term stability of the implants and the possibility of retinal neuron plasticity in response to prolonged stimulation.\n\nThe Manchester Royal Infirmary and Prof Paulo E Stanga announced on July 22, 2015 the first successful implantation of Second Sight's Argus II in patients suffering from severe Age Related Macular Degeneration. These results are very impressive as it appears that the patients integrate the residual vision and the artificial vision. It potentially opens the use of retinal implants to millions of patients suffering from AMD.\n\nSome new pre-clinical studies restoring vision to animal models show promise of artificial photo voltaic layers transplanted on top of the retina. These layers convert light to electricity in a way similar to photoreceptors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36721991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36721991", "title": "Roy Chamberlain", "text": "Roy Chamberlain\n\nRoy H. Chamberlain (1862 - date of death unknown) was a Member of the Board of General Appraisers.\n\nChamberlain was born in 1862 in Clarinda, Iowa. He served as Postmaster of Clarinda from 1895 to 1899. He served as clerk and acting collector of customs for the United States Military and Naval Forces in Havana, Cuba from 1899 to 1901. He served as Collector of Internal Revenue in Honolulu, Hawaii from 1901 to 1908.\n\nOn June 3, 1908, President Roosevelt appointed Chamberlain to the Board of General Appraisers via a recess appointment. On December 8, 1908, President Roosevelt nominated Chamberlain to the same seat, which had been vacated by Wilbur Fisk Lunt. He was confirmed by the Senate on January 11, 1909 and received his commission on January 15, 1909. He served on the board until he was removed from office by President Taft on March 3, 1913. He was succeeded on the board by Judge George Stewart Brown.\n\nChamberlain's removal from office followed an investigation by a commission appointed for the purpose and consisting of Assistant Attorney General Winfred T. Dennison, Collector of the Port of New York William Loeb and law officer of the Bureau of Insular Affairs Felix Frankfurter future Supreme Court Justice. Chamberlain had been accused of incompetence in office. The commission determined on February 13, 1913 that Chamberlain was not an attorney and was not qualified to hold office. The commission further determined that decisions written by Chamberlain while on the Board had actually been prepared by another person. On March 3, 1913, President Taft upheld the commission's decision and removed Chamberlain from office.\n\nAfter his removal from office, he worked as a grocer in Bradford, Pennsylvania from 1920 to 1930. His date and place of death are unknown.\n"}
{"id": "420274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420274", "title": "Roy Kinnear", "text": "Roy Kinnear\n\nRoy Mitchell Kinnear (8 January 1934 – 20 September 1988) was an English actor. He is known for his roles in films directed by Richard Lester; including Algernon in \"Help!\" (1965); Clapper in \"How I Won the War\" (1967); and Planchet in \"The Three Musketeers\" (1973), reprising the latter role in the 1974 and 1989 sequels. He is also known for playing Private Monty Bartlett in \"The Hill\" (1965), Henry Salt in the 1971 film \"Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory\", and cruise director Curtain in Juggernaut (1974). \n\nKinnear made his stage debut in 1955, and came to prominence in the BBC satirical comedy series \"That Was the Week That Was\" in 1962. He went on to appear in numerous British television comedy programmes, including \"The Dick Emery Show\" (1979–81), and in the sitcoms \"Man About the House\" (1974–75), \"George and Mildred\" (1976–79) and \"Cowboys\" (1980–81).\n\nKinnear was born in Wigan, Lancashire, the son of Annie (\"née\" Durie, previously Smith) and Roy Kinnear. His father was a Scottish dual international in rugby union and rugby league, having played for and Great Britain national rugby league team international, making one Lions appearance and three for Other Nationalities, and scoring 81 tries in 184 games for Wigan; he collapsed and died while playing rugby union with the RAF in 1942, at the age of 38. Scotland Rugby League have named their Student Player of the Year Award after him.\n\nKinnear was educated at George Heriot's School in Edinburgh. At the age of 17 he enrolled in the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art; national service interrupted his studies.\n\nIn the 1950s Kinnear began a career in repertory theatre when he appeared in a show at Newquay. In 1959 he joined Joan Littlewood's Theatre Workshop at the Theatre Royal Stratford East, performing in both the 1960 play and 1963 film of \"Sparrows Can't Sing\". Prior to joining Littlewood's workshop, he was a member of the cast of Perth Repertory Theatre. The cast also included Valerie Lush, Jane Cain (the original voice of the Speaking Clock) and Russell Hunter. He continued to work on stage and radio before gaining national attention as a participant in the television show \"That Was The Week That Was\". \n\nKinnear was Stanley Baker's original choice to play VC recipient Frederick Hitch in the film \"Zulu\". Baker did not know Kinnear's name, and told the casting director to get \"the actor from \"That Was the Week That Was\" whose surname begins with K.\" David Kernan, also a cast member of that programme, was summoned and Baker chose to hire him rather than search for Kinnear. \n\nKinnear later appeared in many films and television shows, including \"Help!\", \"Till Death Us Do Part\", \"Doctor at Large\", \"Man About the House\", \"George and Mildred\", \"The Dick Emery Show\" (as Gaylord's long-suffering father) and four episodes of \"The Avengers\". He starred in \"Cowboys\", a sitcom about builders. His best-known films are those he made with director and close friend Richard Lester: \"Help!\", \"A Funny Thing Happened On the Way to the Forum\", \"How I Won the War\", \"The Bed Sitting Room\", \"Juggernaut\" and the \"Musketeer\" series of the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nHe appeared with Christopher Lee in the Hammer horror film \"Taste the Blood of Dracula\" (1970). Also in 1970 he played Mr. Perkins, Melody's father in Waris Hussein's \"Melody\", a puppy love story. He played the father of spoiled rich girl Veruca Salt in the film \"Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory\" (1971), an adaptation of Roald Dahl's children's novel \"Charlie and the Chocolate Factory\". \n\nHe guest-starred in \"The Goodies'\" episode \"Rome Antics\" as the Roman Emperor, and in the BBC's \"Ripping Yarns\" episode \"Escape From Stalag Luft 112B\" (1977) as the fearsome German Sergeant Vogel.\n\nHe narrated and provided voices for the stop-motion children's television show \"Bertha\". He appeared in two music videos for Mike + The Mechanics (\"All I Need Is a Miracle\" and \"Taken In\") as the band's manager; in the former, he was reunited with his \"Help!\" co-star Victor Spinetti.\n\nHe narrated \"Towser\" and \"Bertha\", voiced Pipkin in the 1978 film \"Watership Down\" and voiced Texas Pete's henchman Bulk in \"SuperTed\" (also with Victor Spinetti, who voiced the evil Texas Pete). Kinnear appeared regularly on the stage. In later life he appeared in productions such as \"The Travails of Sancho Panza\" (playing the title role), and in \"The Cherry Orchard\", in 1985. \n\nIn 1987, Kinnear starred in the ITV sitcom \"Hardwicke House\", but the show caused such a storm of protest it was cancelled after just two episodes.\n\nHis final completed roles were in \"A Man for All Seasons\" (1988) a made-for-television film directed by and starring Charlton Heston, John Gielgud and Vanessa Redgrave, as a patient in the BBC1 hospital drama \"Casualty\", and a voice role as Mump in \"The Princess and the Goblin\", which was released in 1991, three years after his sudden death in September 1988. Following his death, the \"Casualty\" episode was postponed. It finally aired in August 1989.\n\nKinnear was married to actress Carmel Cryan. They had three children, including TV and theatre actor Rory and casting director Kirsty. Their elder daughter, Karina, was born with cerebral palsy.\n\nOn 19 September 1988, Kinnear fell from a horse during the making of \"The Return of the Musketeers\" in Toledo, Spain, and sustained a broken pelvis and internal bleeding. He was taken to hospital in Madrid but died the next day from a heart attack, brought on by his injuries. He was 54 years old. He is buried in East Sheen Cemetery.\n\nAfter his death, Kinnear's family sued the production company and the film's director. In 1991, they received a £650,000 settlement. They later went on to demand an official investigation into the level of medical care Kinnear had received in Spain. Director Richard Lester quit the film business as a direct result of Kinnear's death.\n\nIn May 1994, the \"Roy Kinnear Trust\", which was inspired by his daughter Karina, was founded to help improve the life of young adults with physical and mental disabilities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11746064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11746064", "title": "San Marino Scale", "text": "San Marino Scale\n\nThe San Marino Scale is a suggested scale for assessing risks associated with deliberate transmissions from Earth aimed to possible extraterrestrial intelligent life. The scale evaluates the significance of transmissions from Earth as a function of signal intensity and information content. The scale was suggested by Iván Almár at a conference in San Marino in 2005.\nThe radio output of Jupiter, Saturn and Neptune is not considered in the model. \nThe San Marino Scale was subsequently adopted by the SETI Permanent Study Group of the International Academy of Astronautics at its 2007 meeting in Hyderabad, India.\n\nIn the original presentation given by Almár, the San Marino Index, SMI, of a given event is calculated as the sum of two terms. \n\nThe first term, I, is based on the intensity of the signal relative to the background noise in the same frequency band. This term is logarithmic, and calculated as: \n\nFor example, a signal which is 100 times more intense than the background noise at the same frequency and bandwidth would have an I value of two. \n\nThe second term, C, is more subjective and relates to the content, aiming, timing, and character of the signal. A C rating of one is something like a stray radar pulse, lacking any information content and randomly directed. A C rating of five is a deliberate reply to an extraterrestrial signal. \n"}
{"id": "439995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=439995", "title": "Sciadopitys", "text": "Sciadopitys\n\nSciadopitys verticillata, koyamaki or Japanese umbrella-pine, is a unique conifer endemic to Japan. It is the sole member of the family Sciadopityaceae and genus Sciadopitys, a living fossil with no close relatives, and present in the fossil record for about 230 million years.\nIts genus name comes from the Greek prefix \"sciado-\" meaning \"shadow\" and \"pitys\", meaning \"pine\"; the specific epithet means \"with whorls\".\n\nIt is an evergreen tree that can grow 15–27 m tall, with brown main shoots bearing whorls of 7–12 cm long flexible green cladodes that look like, and perform the function of, leaves but are actually composed of stem tissues; occasionally, a cladode will be forked and produce a bud in the 'v' of the fork. The cones are 6–11 cm long, mature in about 18 months, and have flattish scales that open to release the seeds.\n\nThere is inconsistent evidence regarding the plant family which produced Baltic amber. Both macrofossil and microfossil evidence suggest a \"Pinus\" relative, whereas chemical and infrared microspectroscopy evidence suggest relatives of either \"Agathis\" or \"Sciadopitys\".\nThe plant was first introduced to Europe by John Gould Veitch in September 1860. It is a very attractive tree and is popular in gardens, despite its slow growth rate. It has gained the Royal Horticultural Society’s Award of Garden Merit. \n\nA symbolic representation of the tree (known in Japanese as \"kōyamaki\") was chosen as the Japanese Imperial crest for Prince Hisahito of Akishino, currently third in line to the Chrysanthemum Throne.\n\n"}
{"id": "29630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29630", "title": "Stan Rogers", "text": "Stan Rogers\n\nStanley Allison \"Stan\" Rogers (November 29, 1949 – June 2, 1983) was a Canadian folk musician and songwriter.\n\nRogers was noted for his rich, baritone voice and his traditional-sounding songs which were frequently inspired by Canadian history and the daily lives of working people, especially those from the fishing villages of the Maritime provinces and, later, the farms of the Canadian prairies and Great Lakes. Rogers died in a fire aboard Air Canada Flight 797 on the ground at the Greater Cincinnati Airport at the age of 33.\n\nRogers was born in Hamilton, Ontario the eldest son of Nathan Allison Rogers and Valerie (née Bushell) Rogers, two Maritimers who had relocated to Ontario in search of work shortly after their marriage in July 1948. Although Rogers was raised in Binbrook, Ontario, he often spent summers visiting family in Guysborough County, Nova Scotia.\n\nIt was there that he became familiar with the way of life in the Maritimes, an influence which was to have a profound impact on his subsequent musical development. He was interested in music from an early age, reportedly beginning to sing shortly after learning to speak. He received his first guitar, a miniature hand-built by his uncle Lee Bushell, when he was five years of age. He was exposed to a variety of music influences, but among the most lasting were the country and western tunes his uncles would sing during family get-togethers. Throughout his childhood, he would practice his singing and playing along with his brother Garnet, six years his junior.\n\nWhile Rogers was attending Saltfleet High School, Stoney Creek, Ontario, he started to meet other young people interested in folk music, although at this time he was dabbling in rock and roll, singing and playing bass guitar in garage bands such as \"Stanley and the Living Stones\" and \"The Hobbits\". After high school, Rogers briefly attended both McMaster University and Trent University, where he performed in small venues with other student musicians, including Ian Tamblyn, Chris Ward and fellow Hobbit Nigel Russell. Russell wrote the song \"White Collar Holler\", which Rogers sang frequently on stage.\n\nRogers signed with RCA Records in 1970 and recorded two singles: \"Here's to You Santa Claus\" in 1970, and \"The Fat Girl Rag\" in 1971. In 1973, Rogers recorded three singles for Polygram: \"Three Pennies\", \"Guysborough Train\", and \"Past Fifty.\"\nIn 1976, Rogers recorded his debut album, \"Fogarty's Cove\", released in 1977 on Barnswallow Records. The album's subject matter dealt almost entirely with life in maritime Canada, and was an immediate success. Rogers then formed Fogarty's Cove Music, and bought Barnswallow during the production of \"Turnaround\", allowing him to release his own albums. Posthumously, additional albums were released.\n\nRogers' songs often had a Celtic feel which was due, in part, to his frequent use of DADGAD guitar tuning. He regularly used his William 'Grit' Laskin built 12-string guitar in his performances. His best-known pieces include \"Northwest Passage\", \"Barrett's Privateers\", \"The Mary Ellen Carter\", \"Make and Break Harbour\", \"The Idiot\", \"Fogarty's Cove\", and \"White Squall\".\n\nRogers died alongside 22 other passengers most likely of smoke inhalation on June 2, 1983, while traveling on Air Canada Flight 797 (a McDonnell Douglas DC-9) after performing at the Kerrville Folk Festival. The airliner was flying from Dallas, Texas, to Toronto and Montreal when a fire of unknown ignition source within the vanity or toilet shroud of the aft washroom forced it to make an emergency landing at the Greater Cincinnati Airport in northern Kentucky.\n\nThere were initially no visible flames, and after attempts to extinguish the fire were unsuccessful, smoke filled the cabin. Upon landing, the plane's doors were opened, allowing the five crew and 18 of the passengers to escape, but approximately 60 to 90 seconds into the evacuation the oxygen rushing in from outside caused a flash fire. Rogers was one of the passengers still on the plane at the time of the fire.\n\nHis ashes were scattered in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Nova Scotia.\n\nRogers' legacy includes his recordings, songbook, and plays for which he was commissioned to write music. His songs are still frequently covered by other musicians, and are perennial favourites at Canadian campfires and song circles. Members of Rogers' band, including his brother Garnet Rogers, continue to be active performers and form a significant part of the fabric of contemporary Canadian folk music. Following his death, he was nominated for the 1984 Juno Awards in the category for Best Male Vocalist. In 1994, his posthumous live album \"Home in Halifax\" was likewise nominated for Best Roots and Traditional Album.\n\nHis widow, Ariel, continues to oversee his estate and legacy. His music and lyrics have been featured in numerous written publications and films. For instance, his lyrics have appeared in school poetry books, taking their place alongside acknowledged classics. His song \"Northwest Passage\" was featured in the last episode of the TV show \"Due South\", his songs \"Barrett's Privateers\" and \"Watching the Apples Grow\" having been previously featured. \"Barrett's Privateers\" has also been used extensively in promotion ads for Alexander Keith's ale. In the 2005 CTV made-for-TV movie on the life of Terry Fox, Rogers' \"Turnaround\" is the music over the closing shot. As the movie ends, Fox is depicted, alone, striding up a hill, while the lyric \"And yours was the open road. The bitter song / The heavy load that I'll never share, tho' the offer's still there / Every time you turn around,\" forges a link between these Canadian icons. Many of his songs on the albums \"Northwest Passage\" and \"From Fresh Water\" refer to events in Canadian history.\n\nAdrienne Clarkson, who, prior to serving as the Governor General of Canada from 1999 to 2005, had worked for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, highlighted Rogers' career in a 1989 television documentary called \"One Warm Line\" on CBC Television; she also quoted Rogers in her investitural address.\n\nWhen CBC's Peter Gzowski asked Canadians to pick an alternate national anthem, \"Northwest Passage\" was the overwhelming choice.\n\nThe Stan Rogers Folk Festival is held every year in Canso, Nova Scotia. In 1995, several artists performed two nights of concerts at Halifax's Rebecca Cohn Auditorium, which were released on album that year as \"Remembering Stan Rogers\".\n\nRogers is also a lasting fixture of the Canadian folk festival Summerfolk, held annually in Owen Sound, Ontario, where the main stage and amphitheater are dedicated as the \"Stan Rogers Memorial Canopy\". The festival is firmly fixed in tradition, with Rogers' song \"The Mary Ellen Carter\" being sung by all involved, including the audience and a medley of acts at the festival.\n\nAt The Canmore Folk Festival, Alberta's longest running folk music festival, performers take to the Stan Rogers Memorial Stage, which is the festival's main stage.\n\nStan's son, Nathan Rogers, is also an established Canadian folk artist with a voice and lyrical acumen similar to his father's. He has released two critically acclaimed solo discs and tours internationally as a solo act and in the trio \"Dry Bones\".\n\nIn 2007, Rogers was recognized posthumously with a National Achievement Award at the annual SOCAN Awards held in Toronto.\n\nIn 2013, Groundwood Books turned Rogers' song Northwest Passage into a children's book illustrated by award-winning artist Matt James.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52506202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52506202", "title": "Sulphide Indole Motility medium", "text": "Sulphide Indole Motility medium\n\nSulphide Indole Motility (SIM) medium is a bacterial growth medium which tests for the ability to reduce sulfates, the ability to produce indoles, and motility. This combination of challenges in one mixture is convenient and commercially available in stab tubes. Inoculated needles are then punctured into the culture and incubated, if the culture becomes cloudy the bacteria were able to infiltrate the media and survive. This method is particularly useful for pathogenic bacteria which are dangerous to handle on wet mount slides\n"}
{"id": "48758303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48758303", "title": "Super-humanism", "text": "Super-humanism\n\nSuperhumanism as is defined as \"the ability of humans to go above and beyond the general expectations and realities of humankind\". This can be accomplished through natural ability, self-actualization or technological aids. \nHistorical outlooks on superhumanism are viewed as finding the ideal human in physical, mental as well as spiritual form, and has influenced politics, policy, philosophers, scientists and movements.\n\nWell documented historical applications of this philosophy can be found in the events of Nazi Germany during World War II. \nModern depictions of this have evolved and are shown through the comic book ideal of superheroes like Superman, or through technologically aided people or cyborgs. \n\nFriedrich Nietzsche (1844-1900) was a philosopher who challenged Christianity, the traditional ideas of purity, God, afterlife and other things such as morality. Nietzsche was a believer in creating the perfect human, or at least a definition of one. He believed in achieving this perfection through the enhancement of individual and cultural health, creativity, and power, and that to be a successful human one would focus on the realities of our world, rather than the beyond world, or afterlife. Nietzsche was often categorized as an existentialist philosopher of his time, and had his hand in the arts, writing, psychologic and social revolution. His later writings gave birth to the philosophy of Übermenschlich or Übermensch, which translates relatively into superhuman or superhumanism.\n\nNietzsche explores the idea of a superhuman, in his writing \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra.\" This writing reveals his thinking as he discusses the reality of humans existing as just that, and their potential to be more, through risks taken to advance humanity. This belief focuses not on a man who is bettering oneself but instead establishes values which create a meaning to life greater than one person, and positively influencing the lives of others with an overarching goal of humanity. These goals help one overcome life's feeling of meaninglessness.\n\nThis idea of bettering one's self, for humanity, developed within the philosophy of Nazi Germany. The Nazi philosophy of the master race, revolved around the concept of creating a perfect race, often referred to as the Aryan race. This was projected onto the people as a way of purifying their society, to create a Germanic master race, in which Übermensch became a core philosophy. By creating a philosophy that defined the superior and the inferior human, people began to classify those around them as such. Nietzsche and the Nazis believed in the greatness of humans because of the \"Polish blood in their veins,\" and were henceforth able to classify and separate the \"inferior.\" Some Nazi experimentation even included trying to chemically purify and enhance their soldiers.\n\nNicholas Treadwell is a British artist who wrote the book \"Superhumanism\" that was published in 1979 and was followed by \"Superhumanism 2\" in 1982.\n\nIn the author's own words, the movement is, \"the first people's art movement – a movement, first and foremost, inspired by life, as opposed to inspired by art. It is a movement of art by the people, for the people, and about the people. It is about tolerance and human understanding. Initially, a superhumanist work will move you to feel – to laugh, to cry, to shudder, to be overwhelmed with compassion. They do not include any aesthetic gesture to distract from the vivid nature of the image. A superhumanist work will take a down to earth subject, and use original technical means to exaggerate it, achieving an over-the-top impact of it's humanist theme.\" Treadwell used this art movement to emphasize the connection between mundane nature of humans, and the superior characteristics that exist in that simplicity.\n\nIt is suggested that there is a relationship between the fall of a society and the perfection of mankind. Many economic, social and environmental factors, which all contribute to the sustainability of a society, are built upon the need for a solution to a problem. Superhumanism requires the ability to overcome these problems, either through physical, mental or emotional triumphs of purity and self-actualization. Through the elimination of these problems, many economies and social structures would be collapsed. Also, through advancement in areas such as Transhumanism, some believe that people humans will advance to a point of education and readiness that war will break out between one another, or tyrannies will reign, due to the high levels of advancements being achieved hence correlating with a need for power, eventually leading to an ultimate state of anarchy.\n\n\"Stan Lee's Superhumans\" was a television show devoted to finding people around the world who exhibit abilities that exceed normal human capabilities. The most flexible man in the world, is an example of a superhuman who travels the world finding physical and mental feats that expand the realm of what humans can do.\n\nMany acts performed by elite athletes are seen as superhuman. Elite athletes perform at a level that is perceived as unattainable by normal standards of performance. These are the result of a mixture of genetics, physical training, and mental conditioning. For example, the highest VO2 max test results ever recorded were from Norwegian cross-country skier, Bjorn Daehlie, who scored a 96 ml/kg/min. The average range for VO2 Max is between 35-40 milliliters of oxygen per kilogram of body weight per minute (ml/kg/min) for men and 27-31 ml/kg/min for women. Another man, Dean Karnazes ran 50 marathons in 50 days in all 50 states in 2006. On February 4, 2015 actor and power lifter Hafthor Bjornsson broke a 1000 year old record by carrying a 1,433 pound log on his back for 5 steps\n\nOutside of athletics, many people have performed superhuman feats. The Blue Angels flight acrobatics team regularly pulls maneuvers equal to 4-6 times the force of gravity (g), with some turns as high as 8g. One man, Greg Poe, is a pilot who was able withstand turns of 12g.\n\nThere are also many stories of people lifting extremely heavy objects under extreme stress, known as hysterical strength. These situations are created when abnormal tasks are completed due to the brains heightened need for achievement.\n\nOne modern day method of achieving above average abilities include performance-enhancing drugs; these include substances such as painkillers, blood boosters, stimulants, and anabolic steroids, but can also encompass substances that aren't fully recognized as enhancers such as caffeine, protein supplements, and vitamins. While drugs as a form of achieving superhuman capabilities is a well known concept in fiction, such as films like \"Limitless\" and the Marvel Comics character Nuke, in real life the current substances that are known and available don't produce such fantastical abilities. The results from some of these drugs are minimal, and often short term. However, they can still produce detrimental side effects, including many adverse psychological and physiological effects. SARMS and DMAA are safer forms to enhance physical performance. Other forms of enhancement include strengthening the material properties of bone by integrating it with titanium foam. More studies are needed to assess the long term effects of these emerging technologies. \n\nTranshumanism is a philosophy, modern-day movement, and practice that seeks to improve humanity through means such as evolution and cybernetics (see also human enhancement). Fictionalized accounts of this can include the characters from the X-men franchise (mutants who are seen as \"the next step in human evolution\"), and also cyborgs such as those found in the Ghost in the Shell franchise. A widespread school of thought, is that transhumanism can include all methods of improving humanity with the goal of ending issues and flaws that have existed for as long as humanity has, but also faces the issues of how far should it go, such as if or when it achieves a state where what exists is no longer human.\n\nAs a major defining factor of the superhumanism philosophy, humans are expected to possess traits that are considered to be those of high moral grounds, dignity and intrinsic values. Many people who believe in superhumanism, value the importance of independent responsibility in making the world a better, and more moral place. This often means being in, or establishing some sort of spirituality which allows one to follow guidelines and grounds of a moral structure, and achieve a certain level of clarity and purity in their self and their path to righteousness and betterment. Superhumanism is often referred to as a combination between religion and philosophy, which suggests that there should be a correlation between the actions of man, and the patterns of the earth, in which this unity established with God, nature and man can allow for super human feats to become possible.\n\n"}
{"id": "57857741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57857741", "title": "SuperCam", "text": "SuperCam\n\nSuperCam is a suite of remote-sensing instruments for the Mars 2020 rover mission that performs remote analyses of rocks and soils with a camera, two lasers and four spectrometers to seek organic compounds that could hold biosignatures of past microbial life on Mars, if it ever existed there.\n\nSuperCam is being developed in collaboration between Los Alamos National Laboratory, the Research Institute in Astrophysics and Planetology (IRAP) in France, the French Space Agency (CNES), the University of Hawaii and the University of Valladolid in Spain. The Principal Investigator is Roger Williams from Los Alamos National Laboratory.\nSuperCam is an improved version of the successful ChemCam instruments of the \"Curiosity\" rover that have been upgraded with two different lasers and detectors.\n\nIn April 2018, SuperCam entered the final stages of assembly and testing. The flight model is scheduled to be integrated in 2018 and installed to the rover later the same year. The rover mission is planned to launch in July 2020.\n\nFor measurements of chemical composition, the instrument suite uses a version of the successful ChemCam instruments of the \"Curiosity\" rover that have been upgraded with two different lasers and detectors. SuperCam's instruments are able to identify the kinds of chemicals that could be evidence of past life on Mars. SuperCam is a suite of various instruments, and the collection of correlated measurements on a target can be used to determine directly the geochemistry and mineralogy of samples.\n\nThe suite has several integrated instruments: Raman spectroscopy, time-resolved fluorescence (TRF) spectroscopy, and Visible and InfraRed (VISIR) reflectance spectroscopy to provide preliminary information about the mineralogy and molecular structure of samples under consideration, as well as being able to directly measure organic compounds. The total is four complementary spectrometers, making the suite sensitive enough to measure trace amounts of chemicals. In April 2018, SuperCam entered the final stages of assembly and testing.\n\nIts remote laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS) emits a 1064-nm red laser beam to investigate targets as small as a grain of rice from a distance of more than 7 meters, allowing the rover to study targets beyond the reach of its arm. The beam vaporizes a tiny amount of rock, creating a hot plasma. SuperCam then measures the colors of light in the plasma, which provide clues to the target's elemental composition. Its laser is also capable of remotely clearing away surface dust, giving all of its instruments a clear view of the targets. LIBS unit contains three spectrometers. Two of these handle the visible and violet portion of the VISIR spectra, while the IR portion is recorded in the mast.\n\nSuperCam's Raman spectrometer (at 532 nm) investigate targets up to 12 m from the rover. In the Raman spectroscopy technique, most of the green laser light reflects back at the same wavelength that was sent, but a small fraction of the light interacts with the target molecules, changing the wavelength in proportion to the vibrational energy of the molecular bonds. By spectrally observing the returned Raman light, the identity of the minerals can be determined.\n\nThe infrared spectrometer, provided by France, operates in the near-infrared (1.3 to 2.6 micrometers) wavelengths and its photodiodes, or detectors, are cooled by small thermoelectric coolers to ensure that they operate between -100°C and -50°C at all times. This instrument will analyze many of the clay minerals and help unravel the history of liquid water on Mars. The types of clay minerals and their abundances give clues about the nature of the water that was present, whether fresh or salty, acidic or neutral pH, whether it might have been icy or warm, and whether the water was present for a long period of time. These are key questions to understand how habitable the surface environment was in the distant past.\n\nSuperCam's optical camera acquires high-resolution color images of samples under study, which also help determine the surface geology. This camera can also study how atmospheric water and dust absorb or reflect solar radiation, which may help to develop weather forecasts. SuperCam is also equipped with a microphone to capture the first audio recordings from the surface of Mars. The microphone is the same model (Knowles Electret) as the ones that flew to Mars on the 1998 Mars Polar Lander and the 2007 \"Phoenix\" lander. However, neither mission was able to record sounds.\n\nThe detectors of all four spectrometers are cooled to just below 0°C by thermoelectric coolers. The photodiodes for the infrared (IR) spectrometer are further cooled to between -100°C and -50°C at all times.\n\n"}
{"id": "3511097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3511097", "title": "The Engine", "text": "The Engine\n\nThe Engine is a fictional device described in \"Gulliver's Travels\" by Jonathan Swift in 1726. It is possibly the earliest known reference to a device in any way resembling a modern computer. It is a device that generates permutations of word sets. It is found at the Academy of Projectors in Lagado and is described thus by Swift:\n“... Every one knew how laborious the usual method is of attaining to arts and sciences; whereas, by his contrivance, the most ignorant person, at a reasonable charge, and with a little bodily labour, might write books in philosophy, poetry, politics, laws, mathematics, and theology, without the least assistance from genius or study.” He then led me to the frame, about the sides, whereof all his pupils stood in ranks. It was twenty feet square, placed in the middle of the room. The superfices was composed of several bits of wood, about the bigness of a die, but some larger than others. They were all linked together by slender wires. These bits of wood were covered, on every square, with paper pasted on them; and on these papers were written all the words of their language, in their several moods, tenses, and declensions; but without any order. The professor then desired me “to observe; for he was going to set his engine at work.” The pupils, at his command, took each of them hold of an iron handle, whereof there were forty fixed round the edges of the frame; and giving them a sudden turn, the whole disposition of the words was entirely changed. He then commanded six-and-thirty of the lads, to read the several lines softly, as they appeared upon the frame; and where they found three or four words together that might make part of a sentence, they dictated to the four remaining boys, who were scribes. This work was repeated three or four times, and at every turn, the engine was so contrived, that the words shifted into new places, as the square bits of wood moved upside down.\"\nStanisław Lem in \"Summa Technologiae\" (1964) and connect the machine with the \"Ars Magna\" of Ramon Llull (1275), a mechanical device for combining ideas to create new ones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15886402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15886402", "title": "The Final Destination", "text": "The Final Destination\n\nThe Final Destination (alternatively known as Final Destination 4) is a 2009 American 3D supernatural horror film written by Eric Bress and directed by David R. Ellis, both of whom also worked on \"Final Destination 2\". Released on August 28, 2009, it is the fourth installment of the \"Final Destination\" film series, and the first to be shot in HD 3D. It is currently the highest-grossing \"Final Destination\" film, earning $186 million worldwide but also received the worst critical reception of the franchise. \n\nIn 2009, College student Nick O'Bannon visits the McKinley Speedway with his girlfriend Lori Milligan and their friends Hunt Wynorski and Janet Cunningham. While watching the race, Nick has a premonition of a horrible car accident that sends debris into the stands, causing the stadium to collapse. When Nick panics, a fight breaks out and several people leave the stadium, including Lori, Hunt, Janet, security guard George Lanter, mechanic Andy Kewzer, his girlfriend Nadia Monroy, racist tow truck driver Carter Daniels, and mother Samantha Lane. As Nadia berates the group, a stray tire flies out of the stadium and decapitates her.\n\nSeveral days after the accident, Carter tries to set a fire on George's lawn for preventing him from saving his wife, but a chain reaction causes him to be dragged down the street on fire before his tow truck explodes. The next day, Samantha is leaving the beauty salon when a rock propelled by a lawn mower is shot through her eye, killing her. After reading about the events in the newspaper and the past disasters, Nick becomes convinced that Death is after them. Hunt and Janet don't believe them, but they manage to convince George to help. The group visits the mechanic shop to warn Andy, but he is killed when a CO2 tank launches him through a chain link fence. After receiving a premonition involving water, Nick tries to warn Hunt, who has gone to a country club pool. At the same time, George and Lori try to find Janet, who becomes trapped in a malfunctioning car wash, and they narrowly manage to save her. Hunt drops his lucky coin in the water after accidentally turning the pool's drain on. When he dives in, he is sucked down to the drain, where the increasing suction eventually sucks his organs through the drain pipe. Afterward, George admits that he tried to commit suicide several times, but all attempts have failed. Nick believes saving Janet must have ruined Death's plan and the group celebrates.\n\nFour days later, Nick begins to see more omens and remembers asking cowboy Jonathan Groves to switch seats prior to the accident, meaning he is next. Nick and George track Jonathan down at a hospital, where he remained in traction recovering from the accident. They witness him being crushed by an overflowing bathtub that falls through the ceiling. As they leave, George is suddenly hit by a speeding ambulance and Nick realizes that Lori and Janet are still in danger. He tracks them down at a mall cinema and convinces Lori to leave, but Janet refuses and is killed by flying debris when a chain reaction causes the screen to explode. A multitude of explosions race Nick and Lori through the mall until they are trapped on a malfunctioning escalator, Lori is dragged into the gears and killed. This turns out to be another premonition, but George is killed by the ambulance before Nick can warn him.\n\nAt the mall, Lori begins seeing omens as well. Having failed in his premonition, Nick runs back to the mall to stop the explosion before it occurs. He is pinned to a wall by a nail gun but manages to stop the fire before it spreads to several combustible barrels, saving everyone. Two weeks later, Nick notices a loose scaffold prop while heading into a café and warns a construction worker about it before going inside. While talking with Lori and Janet, he starts to see more omens and alludes to the theory that his predictions were red herrings meant to lead them to where they needed to be for Death to strike. Just as he realizes this the scaffold outside collapses, causing a truck to swerve and crash into the coffee shop, killing all three of them. Janet is crushed under the tires, Lori is decapitated by the impact, and Nick is propelled into a wall, dislocating his jaw.\n\nAfter the success of \"Final Destination 3\", which was initially planned to be in 3D, Eric Bress wrote a script, which impressed producer Craig Perry and Warner Bros. enough to green-light a fourth installment. James Wong was on board to direct, but because of scheduling conflicts with \"Dragonball Evolution\", he decided to drop out. Consequently, the studio executives opted for David R. Ellis to return because of his work on \"Final Destination 2\". He accepted because of the 3D. For the 3D, Perry said that he wanted it to add depth to the film instead of just \"something pop[ping] out at the audience every four minutes.\"\n\nAlthough shooting was to be done in Vancouver, which was where the previous three films were shot, David R. Ellis convinced the producers to shoot in New Orleans instead to bring business to the city, and because the budget was already large. The opening crash sequence at \"McKinley Speedway\" was filmed at Mobile International Speedway in Irvington, Alabama. Filming began in March 2008 and ended in late May in the same year. Reshoots were done in April 2009 at Universal Studios Florida.\n\nThe soundtrack album was released on August 25, 2009, three days before the film's theatrical release, under public record label JVC/Sony Music Australia. The album consists of 23 cues composed and mixed by Brian Tyler. He took over scoring the series after the untimely death of the composer for the first three films, Shirley Walker.\n\n\n\nThe CD features the score composed by Brian Tyler, omitting commercially released songs that were featured in the film.\n\n\n\nThe soundtrack attracted generally favorable reviews. Christian Clemmensen of Filmtracks.com gave the score 3 out of 5 stars and felt Tyler was \"capable [...] to further explore new stylistic territory while making substantial use of the structures and tone of [predecessor composer] Shirley Walker's music.\" His approach to the scores were called \"intelligent\", and provide \"adequate if not strikingly overachieving recordings is testimony to his immense talents.\"\n\nThe reviewers were also impressed with the extension of the sound used by Walker in \"Final Destination 3\". \"It relates to an affection for Walker's contribution to the industry,\" said an unnamed critic.\n\nA SoundNotes reviewer grades the film with an impressive score of 7.5/10, remarking \"Brian Tyler slugs his way through the inadequacies of \"The Final Destination\" and produces a score with reasonable entertainment value and enough of an appeal to make it function well apart from the woeful film.\"\n\nThe film was released in 3D as well as in conventional theaters on August 28, 2009. It was initially planned for an August 14 release. It was also the first 3D film to feature D-BOX motion feedback technology in select theaters.\n\nAccording to \"USA Today\" and \"Newsday\", \"The Final Destination\" debuted at the top of the North American box office, beating Rob Zombie's \"Halloween II\", earning $28.3 million during its first weekend. It is also topped the box office in the UK. The film remained #1 at the box office in North America for two weeks. On September 11, 2009, it gained just over a million dollars and dropped to No. 7. The film grossed $66.4 million domestically and $119.3 million in foreign sales, with a total of $186.5 million worldwide.\n\n\"The Final Destination\" was initially scheduled for a DVD and Blu-ray Disc release on December 22, 2009. The film was pushed back to January 5, 2010 in the US. Both the DVD and Blu-ray Disc included two pairs of 3D glasses with each set and featured a 2D version on the disc, along with additional scenes. Only the Blu-ray Disc version included two alternate endings, a \"making of\" featurette about the deaths, storyboard visualization and a preview of \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" (2010). The Blu-ray Disc release, also a combo pack, includes a standard DVD of the film.\n\nIn Target stores, some of the DVDs included an exclusive \"Final Destination\" comic book.\n\nThe movie was released uncut in Australian theaters with an MA15+ (Strong horror violence, sex scene) rating. When the movie's DVD/Blu-ray Disc release was reviewed, the ACB (Australian Classification Board) noted several scenes in the 2D version that exceeded the guidelines of the MA15+ category. There were two editions released in Australia: a DVD version which only contains a censored 2D version (most of the blood effects taken off and gore trimmed) and a DVD release awarded an R18+ rating (High impact violence) with both uncensored 2D and 3D versions (and 3D glasses included). The covers between the two releases vary.\n\nThe film received generally negative reviews from critics. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 29% of 95 critics gave the film a positive review, with a rating average of 4.2 out of 10. The site's consensus is: \"With little of the ingenuity of previous installments, \"The Final Destination\" is predictable, disposable horror fare.\" Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 0–100 reviews from film critics, has a rating score of 30 based on 14 reviews.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29664578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29664578", "title": "The Raven (2012 film)", "text": "The Raven (2012 film)\n\nThe Raven is a 2012 American psychological crime thriller film directed by James McTeigue, produced by Marc D. Evans, Trevor Macy and Aaron Ryder and written by Ben Livingston and Hannah Shakespeare. It stars John Cusack, Alice Eve, Brendan Gleeson and Luke Evans.\n\nSet in 1849, it is a fictionalized account of the last days of Edgar Allan Poe's life, in which the poet and author pursues a serial killer whose murders mirror those in Poe's stories. While the plot of the film is fictional, the writers based it on some accounts of real situations surrounding Edgar Allan Poe's mysterious death. Poe is said to have repeatedly called out the name \"Reynolds\" on the night before his death, though it is unclear to whom he was referring. The title derives from Poe's poem \"The Raven\", in the similar manner of the earlier unrelated 1935 and 1963 films.\n\nIt was released in Canada, Ireland, and the United Kingdom on March 9, 2012 and in the United States on April 27, 2012. The film garnered mostly negative reviews, with the visual effects and score by Lucas Vidal praised, but the performances and plot twists criticized.\n\nIn 19th-century Baltimore, Maryland, several policemen discover a murdered woman sprawled on the floor of her apartment, which was locked from the inside. While police search for the killer's means of escape, they discover a second corpse in the chimney, later identified as the 12-year-old daughter of the first victim. A celebrated detective, Emmett Fields (Luke Evans), is called to assist in the investigation and discovers that the crime resembles a fictional murder in a short story, \"The Murders in the Rue Morgue\", that he once read.\n\nThe writer Edgar Allan Poe (John Cusack) is brought to Fields for questioning. After finding the body of Griswold (John Warnaby), a rival of Poe, cut in half by a pendulum (as in Poe's story \"The Pit and the Pendulum\"), the pair deduce that someone is staging murders based on Poe's stories. Edgar's love, Emily Hamilton (Alice Eve), is kidnapped at her father's (Brendan Gleeson) masquerade ball, like the one described in Poe's \"The Masque of the Red Death\". The killer taunts Poe in a note, demanding that Edgar write and publish a new story. Poe's lodgings are burned down by people who believe he is exploiting the murders for his own journalistic ends, and he is forced to move in with Fields.\n\nA clue from the killer referring to \"The Cask of Amontillado\" leads Poe and Fields to search the tunnels under the city with several policemen, discovering the walled-up corpse of a man dressed as Emily. The man is determined to be a sailor, and the clues on his body bring the pursuers to Holy Cross Church, where an empty grave with Emily's name on it has been prepared. As the police attempt to break down the church doors, the killer attacks and kills one of the policemen, then shoots and wounds Fields. Poe gives chase on horseback, but the killer escapes.\n\nPoe writes one last newspaper column, offering his life for Emily's, suggesting that he could take poison. In the morning, the maid gives Poe a letter from the killer, accepting his terms, but the note was delivered long before the paper was distributed. Realizing that the killer must work at the paper, Poe races to confront his editor, Henry (Kevin McNally), but Henry is already dead, another note lying next to him.\n\nThe real killer is the paper's typesetter, Ivan Reynolds (Sam Hazeldine), who congratulates Poe and offers him a drink. Ivan attempts to converse with Edgar, but Poe demands Emily's location. Ivan pours a vial of poison, promising to end the story as Poe had written it. Poe agrees and drinks the liquid. Ivan quotes \"The Tell-Tale Heart\", cluing Edgar that Emily is concealed beneath the printing floor. As the killer leaves, Poe uses the last of his strength to tear up a false section of floor and open a trapdoor leading to Emily's prison.\n\nPoe rescues Emily, and they share a poignant moment before she is taken away by ambulance. Delirious from the poison, Edgar wanders off to a park bench to die. A man walking in the park recognizes him as the famous writer, and asks if he is all right. Poe can summon only enough strength to say, \"Tell Fields his last name is Reynolds.\" Later, when Fields comes to view Poe's corpse at the hospital, the attending physician is unable to tell him the exact cause of death, but mentions that the writer was incoherent, insisting that \"his last name is Reynolds.\" Fields ponders the meaning of the phrase, slowly connecting the dots.\n\nIvan disembarks from a train in Paris. As a porter carries his luggage, Ivan climbs into a carriage and is confronted by Fields. He lunges for the detective, and Fields shoots him at point blank range.\n\n\nJeremy Renner was originally going to star in the film (playing the role later taken by Luke Evans), but he dropped out so that he could star in \"\". Ewan McGregor was also in talks for a role, but he also dropped out. Joaquin Phoenix was also approached to star at one point. On August 28, 2010, it was confirmed that John Cusack would play Edgar Allan Poe in the film. \n\nThe filming began on November 9, 2010 in Belgrade and Budapest. The first images from the set were revealed on November 15, 2010. A trailer for the film was released online October 7, 2011. This date is significant because it also marks the anniversary of Poe's death at age 40 in 1849. In 2011 Relativity acquired U.S. rights for only $4 million.\n\n\"The Raven\" received mixed to negative reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a rating of 22%, based on 129 reviews. On Metacritic, the film has a score of 44 out of 100, based on 30 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nJames Berardinelli gave the film two and a half stars out of four, writing: \"\"The Raven\" looks great and is well-paced, but a lack of a compelling resolution makes it an anemic effort.\"\nMick LaSalle of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" wrote, \"The story has its moments, and yet there is something about this tale ... that doesn't completely satisfy.\"\nRichard Roeper, however, was more positive towards the film, awarding it a B+.\n\n\"The Raven\" brought back its budget(not accounting for marketing costs/budget) at the box office(although American cinema chains keep 46-50% of the final gross,whilst studios only receive 33-38%,depending on the film,from the final gross of the international gross) by grossing $29.65 million worldwide on a production budget of $26 million.\n\n\n"}
