{"id": "2724823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2724823", "title": "6th Queen Elizabeth's Own Gurkha Rifles", "text": "6th Queen Elizabeth's Own Gurkha Rifles\n\nThe 6th Queen Elizabeth's Own Gurkha Rifles was a rifle regiment of the British Indian Army comprising Gurkha soldiers of Nepalese origin, before being transferred to the British Army following India's independence. Originally raised in 1817 as part of the army of the British East India Company, the regiment has been known by a number of names throughout its history. Initially the unit did not recruit from the Gurkhas, although after being transferred to the British Indian Army following the Indian Rebellion of 1857, it became a purely Gurkha regiment, in due course with its regimental headquarters at Abbottabad in the North West Frontier Province of British India. After 1947 the regiment was one of only four Gurkha regiments to be transferred to the British Army and this continued up until 1994, when it was amalgamated with other Gurkha regiments to form the Royal Gurkha Rifles. Over the course of its 177-year history, the regiment was awarded 25 battle honours, although prior to World War I it had only been awarded one and no battle honours were awarded to it after World War II.\n\nThe regiment was initially raised in 1817 as the Cuttack Legion as part of the army of the East India Company. This was a unit of Indian natives from the Cuttack City of Odisha area and initially it was used to maintain order in the region, before moving to Northern Bengal in 1823 when it became known as the Rungpoor Light Infantry.\n\nDuring the Indian Rebellion of 1857 the regiment remained \"loyal\" to the British and two of its members were awarded with Indian Order of Merit, which was the highest award that a Gurkha could receive until 1911 when Gurkhas became eligible for the Victoria Cross. \nFollowing this, the regiment was transferred to the newly formed British Indian Army and as time passed, the regiment began recruiting Nepalese Gurkhas into its ranks—initially only two companies of Gurkhas were formed, but, over time, more and more were recruited until it eventually became a pure Gurkha regiment, being numbered as the 42nd Regiment of Goorkha Light Infantry in 1886. During the period before the First World War, the regiment was primarily involved in patrolling the north-east border of India, indeed it remained in eastern India for 77 years, and as such the regiment gained only a single battle honour up to 1914.\n\nIn 1899 the regiment moved from Assam to Abbottabad, in present-day Pakistan, and began operations on the North-West Frontier. In 1903, the regiment was also renumbered as the 6th Gurkha Rifles. A year later, a second battalion for the regiment was raised from a cadre taken from the 1st Battalion.\n\n1817–1823 – The Cuttack Legion\n1823–1823 – Rungpore Local Battalion (January–March)\n1823–1823 – Rungpore Light Infantry (March–May)\n1823–1826 – 10th Rungpore Light Infantry\n1826–1827 – 8th Rungapore Light Infantry\n1827–1844 – 8th Assam Light Infantry\n1844–1850 – 8th/1st Light Infantry Battalion\n1850–1861 – 1st Assam Light Infantry Battalion\n1861–1861 – 46th Regiment of Bengal Native (Light) Infantry \n1861–1865 – 42nd Regiment of Bengal Native (Light) Infantry \n1865–1885 – 42nd (Assam) Regiment of Bengal Native (Light) Infantry\n1885–1886 – 42nd (Assam) Regiment of Bengal (Light) Infantry\n1886–1889 – 42nd Regiment Gurkha Light Infantry\n1889–1891 – 42nd (Gurkha) Regiment of Bengal Light Infantry\n1891–1901 – 42nd Gurkha (Rifle) Regiment of Bengal Light Infantry\n1901–1903 – 42nd Gurkha Rifles\n1903–1959 – 6th Gurkha Rifles\n1959–1994 – 6th Queen Elizabeth's Own Gurkha Rifles.\n\nDuring the First World War the regiment was expanded further with the raising of a third battalion. The regiment served in a number of theatres during the war, including Persia, the Middle East, Turkey and Greece.\n\nThe 1st Battalion had the distinction of being the first Gurkha unit to arrive at Gallipoli landing at Cape Helles on 25 April 1915. Their first major operation saw them attack an Ottoman position that was doing significant damage to Allied forces with machine guns—this involved them going up a 300-foot (91 metre) vertical slope which had defeated both the Royal Marine Light Infantry and the Royal Dublin Fusiliers—however, the Gurkhas gained the position with ease. Eighteen Gurkhas were killed in this action and another forty-two were wounded. For their sacrifice, this area is now known as \"Gurkha Bluff\".\nThe 2nd Battalion meanwhile began service with the 2nd (Rawalpindi) Division and in April 1916 transferred to the new 15th Indian Division where it served the remainder of the war in Mesopotamia.\n\nThe 3rd Battalion was formed as the \"3rd Gurkha Reserve Battalion\" on 5 February 1917 at Rawalpindi. In February 1918, it was transferred to the Bannu Brigade on the North East Frontier. With the brigade, it served in the Third Anglo-Afghan War in 1919. It was disbanded on 1 February 1921.\n\nBetween the First and Second World Wars the regiment was reduced to two battalions once more and they returned to the North-West Frontier where they were employed on garrison duties.\n\nThe Second World War saw the expansion of all ten Gurkha regiments of the British Indian Army, and the 6th Gurkhas raised a further two battalions, numbered as the 3rd and 4th Battalions. Over the course of the conflict, battalions of the regiment fought in Italy and Burma, and also in Waziristan on the North West Frontier (1940–41) where they served as garrison troops and saw action against Pathan tribesmen.\n\nIn January 1943 the 2nd Battalion was attached to the 3rd Indian Motor Brigade which had just returned from the Western Desert after having been almost destroyed at the Battle of Gazala. At the end of the month the brigade was renamed as the 43rd Indian Infantry Brigade (Lorried). The brigade and its Gurkha battalions were sent to Italy in mid-1944 as an Independent brigade and fought in the Italian Campaign.\n\nIt was during the Burma Campaign, that the regiment received its first Victoria Cross, in fact two awards were made to members of the regiment for actions on the same day. Captain Michael Allmand and Rifleman Tulbahadur Pun were awarded the VC for their actions during the fighting around the Pin Hmi Road Bridge at Mogaung in Burma on 23 June 1944 while serving with the 3rd Battalion who were taking part Operation Thursday, which was the second Chindit expedition. The 3rd Battalion's involvement in this operation proved very costly and they suffered 126 killed, 352 wounded and 7 missing. As well as the two previously mentioned VCs, members of the battalion also received the following awards: 2 DSOs, 3 IOMs, 6 MCs, 4 IDSMs, 12 MMs, 3 US Silver Stars.\n\nIn 1946 the regiment was reduced to three battalions, following the disbandment of the 4th Battalion. A year later, India gained its independence and under the 1947 Tri Partite Agreement four regiments of the Brigade of Gurkhas were allocated to the British Army, while the other six were transferred to the newly formed independent Indian Army. The 6th Gurkhas were one of the regiments that were transferred to the British Army, although the 3rd Battalion was transferred to the 5th Royal Gurkha Rifles (Frontier Force), which was one of the battalions that had been allocated to the Indian Army, and the regiment was thus reduced to two battalions once more. In 1959, the regiment was renamed as the 6th Queen Elizabeth's Own Gurkha Rifles in honour of Elizabeth II.\n\nAs with other Gurkha regiments, the 6th Gurkhas primarily saw service in the Far East until the British withdrawal from East of Suez. Both battalions participated in the Malayan Emergency. Later, between 1962 and 1964, the 1st Battalion served in the United Kingdom. Between 1963 and 1966, both the 1st and 2nd Battalions saw service in Borneo during Confrontation.\n\nOn 16 June 1969, the 6th Gurkhas was reduced to a single battalion, when the 1st and 2nd Battalions were amalgamated as the 1st Battalion. The single battalion continued to rotate with the other Gurkha regiments between Hong Kong, Brunei and Church Crookham until 1 July 1994. At that point, while in Hong Kong, the 1st Battalion was amalgamated with the 1st Battalion, 2nd King Edward VII's Own Gurkha Rifles (The Sirmoor Rifles) to form the 1st Battalion, Royal Gurkha Rifles.\n\nThere have been two Victoria Cross recipients from the 6th Gurkhas. These were:\n\n\nThe 6th Gurkhas received the following battle honours:\n\n\nColonels of the Regiment were:\n\n\"*1994 Regiment amalgamated to form The Royal Gurkha Rifles\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51611377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51611377", "title": "Alika Kinan", "text": "Alika Kinan\n\nAlika Kinan (born 24 June 1976 in Córdoba\n\n) is an Argentina-born feminist and anti-trafficking activist. After a police raid at the brothel where she was being sexually exploited in 2012, she began advocating for the abolition of prostitution. She attracted media attention in Argentina when she sued her exploiters and the city where the brothel was located. She became known worldwide when the U.S. Department of State gave her an award for her anti-trafficking activism. \n\n\nKinan's family had enough money to provide her a good education, but her life began to spiral downhill when her father began to abuse her mother. Kinan has said that her mother, along with her grandmother and her aunts, were prostituted. She has described how her father used to tell stories after dinner about how he met her mother and how he rescued her from the \"zulo\". (\"Zulo\" is a word with many meanings. In this context, it could mean either a small, wretched apartment, or a brothel.) Kinan was raped at age fourteen. Her parents separated when she was fifteen and her younger sister was nine, and her father stopped supporting the family.\n\nA year later Kinan's mother went to Buenos Aires, leaving her to care for her sister. (According to some sources, Kinan's mother took Kinan and her sister to Buenos Aires and Kinan later returned to Córdoba.) Kinan tried cooking and selling a local pastry but couldn't earn enough to support herself and her sister. Her father refused to help her. Reportedly, he told her \"You know what you have to do,\" implying that she should become a prostitute. She worked for someone for three months but received no pay. A friend suggested working at Aries, a brothel run out of a private apartment.\n\nKinan remembers her decision to enter sex work:\n\nKinan was seventeen at the time. She remembers her first client as being grotesquely fat and smelling like talcum powder. She still remembers the odor:\n\nAfter that, she worked at bachelor parties and continued seeing individual clients. She received 40% of the clients' fees, which was enough to rent a place for her and her sister. While still underage, she attracted the attention of the police and spent more time hiding from them than servicing clients, which would have reduced the amount of money she could earn to support herself and her sister. She says\n\nAt one point during this period, Kinan seems to have also been supporting her father. She says that he lived with her and asked her for money. He also threatened to get a lawyer and take her younger sister away from her.\n\nUp to this time, Kinan had been moving back and forth between Cruz del Eje and the city of Córdoba. Another woman recommended that she move to Ushuaia, in Argentina's Tierra del Fuego region. Kinan was told that she would get many clients who paid well in dollars, and she could keep 50% of the clients fees, as opposed to the 40% that she kept in Córdoba.\n\nDifferent sources report her age at this time as fifteen, eighteen, nineteen or twenty. She was born in 1976 and went to Ushuaia in 1996. If she arrived before her birthday on 24 June, she would have been nineteen. If she arrived after her birthday, she would have been twenty. But in either case she was likely to be closer to her twentieth birthday than her nineteenth. A plane ticket was sent to her and in Ushuaia she began work at a nightclub called Sheik where, as promised, she kept 50% of the clients' fees. After a while she rented a place and sent for her sister, paying for her school, English classes, computers, clothing, and food.\n\nAccording to Kinan's ex-husband, Miguel Pascual, they met in 1996, the same year she arrived in Ushuaia. She had already changed employers and was working at the nightclub Black & White. He paid her managers extra to spend extra time with her, but she wasn't informed and as she comments, \"... obviously I did not see any of it.\" Pascual served three yearlong tours of duty on a ship that supplied Spain's Antarctic bases. He and Kinan saw each other during those three years when his boat docked in Ushuaia. He told her he wanted her to be his life partner. Kinan was apparently in danger at the time:\n\nIn a different interview, she didn't mention the pimps with guns, but she indicated a similar degree of desperation:\n\nSo he took her on vacation in Barcelona where his family had businesses and drove Mercedes, and she ended up staying with him in Spain and bringing her sister over.\n\nIn Kinan's description of the marriage, she worked at businesses owned by her husband's family. One source says that he collected half her wages, another says that he collected all of her wages. She wasn't allowed to use the car and was required to function as the maid. To support her sister, she secretly sold her eggs. (It must have been extremely difficult to hide this from her husband without a car.) She says her husband quickly became violent.\n\nA few days before the start of the trial, Pascual gave a very different description of their marriage, which he described as \"hell from the first day.\" He claims that it was she who assaulted him, and that he defended himself without hitting her.\n\nKinan says that at some point after the birth of their second child, her husband sent her to a brothel. Her husband denies the accusations of forced labor and forced prostitution.\n\nOver nine years they had three children. According to Kinan, one night when the oldest was eight, she refused to do her homework and her father hit her hard enough to cause bleeding. Kinan decided that she needed to leave Spain and persuaded her husband to take them all back to Argentina. According to her husband, Miguel Pascual, they moved to Córdoba in Argentina in 2008, and separated in 2010. At that point he returned to Spain and Kinan returned to Ushuaia and Sheik to support herself and her children.\n\nAs with Kinan, there are some discrepancies in different versions of Pascual's story. At one point he said that he and Kinan separated, and he continued sending money for their daughters until he discovered that she had returned to sex work. In another account he claimed to be present when she made the phone call to Sheik to ask about returning to sex work. In this telling, they separated because she was returning to sex work, and he later stopped sending money because she married another man whom she was supporting.\n\nFollowing the police raid at the Black & White nightclub/brothel, news outlets published information about the brothel's operations. Much of this information relates to aspects of brothel operation that aren't described in news reports describing Sheik. Kinan worked at Black & White immediately before leaving for Spain. This section uses information about both Sheik and Black & White to give a more complete picture of the working conditions that Kinan would have encountered.\n\nAlika Kinan's experience at the two brothels were probably common for sex workers across the southern Cone area. Descriptions of brothels in two Chilean cities not far from Ushuaia and in Ushuaia itself closely match the business operations of Sheik and Black & White. Information and employees seem to have moved more or less freely between the six brothels of Ushuaia, which were located within a few blocks of each other. When many of Ushuaia's sex workers migrated to Punto Arenas in Chile after the police raids shut down the brothels in Ushuaia, it was a one-time group migration, but it probably followed a path previously forged by individual sex workers moving between the two cities. No two businesses operate in exactly the same way, but these two brothels can be taken as a rough proxy for legally regulated brothels in Patagonia.\n\nThe primary manager at Sheik was Pedro Montoya, who was involved with the brothel throughout its existence. During an earlier period, his co-manager was his wife Claudia Quiroga, who owned the property where the brothel was located. The on-site supervisor under Quiroga was Corina Sánchez.\n\nAt the time of the police raid, Quiroga and Sánchez were no longer involved. The co-manager was Montoya's girlfriend Ivana Claudia García, and the on-site supervisor was Lucy Alberca Campos. García's brother Jorge Etcheverry worked as a recruiter for the brothel.\n\nDuring the trial, Kinan described how the managers used surveillance cameras to monitor the women:\n\nOne woman was described by the managers as \"like the fish, you use everything but the head.\" (Equivalent to the American expression \"butterface\" or the Australian expression \"prawn.\") This was cited at the trial as an example of the managers' contempt toward the women. At the trial, one of the police witnesses said that the managers mislead the women in order to recruit them, and then belittled them for their poverty and poor education. Kinan remembers the following scene:\n\nOn the other hand, Kinan felt that the managers were\n\nAs Kinan points out, it was good business to keep workers healthy and productive. The feeling that the managers were her family is not surprising, given that between the age of sixteen, when she was left to support herself and her sister, and the age of thirty six, when the police raided Sheik, the brothels of Ushuaia and her husband were the only ones who concerned themselves about her health, housing, and financial support.\n\nThe primary manager at Black & White was Victor Morales, nicknamed \"Jefe\". His daughter seems to have been second in command. Other people involved in some sort of managerial capacity included his ex-wife, his current girlfriend, and his son.\nLike Sheik, Black and White had security cameras. One woman was so unnerved by their presence that she left shortly after arrival.\n\nThere were seven women working at Sheik at the time of the police raid, three from the Dominican Republic, one from Paraguay, and three from Argentina. All of them were supporting children with no assistance from the fathers. Most of them hadn't finished formal basic education and had no good alternatives to sex work. One of the women had only the clothes she was wearing when she moved to Ushuaia to work at Sheik.\n\nBlack & White's web site promised twenty-five women. During the police investigation the number of women employed varied from twelve to twenty. At the time of the raid it employed eighteen women. The majority of them were from the Dominican Republic,\nbut some came from other provinces in Argentina, or from Colombia.\nMost of them were in their twenties. A woman who was thirty eight said that Morales was initially reluctant to hire her because of her age.\nAmong the women who were described, one had left home and was struggling to support herself, one had debts, and two had been doing sex work in Rosario, Santa Fe and came to Ushuaia for the job. One of the women was mentally ill and her condition prompted the police to end the investigation and raid the brothel.\n\nOne of the women interviewed by the prosecutors during the Black & White investigation testified that she had been seventeen years old when Morales recruited her. She said that he brought her to Ushuaia along with two other underage girls. When they arrived at the house they would live in, they found other employees of the brothel who were also underage.\nHowever, at the time of the police raid, all of the women employed by the brothel were legally adults.\nWhen a sex worker first arrived at Ushuaia, she would first be taken to the police station where the provincial police would take her finger prints,\nopen a file on her, and ensure that she had no criminal record. The city government then set up a health book that recorded her medical examinations. The city of Ushuaia required the women to undergo regular examinations, involving tests for HIV and sexually transmitted infections and analysis of vaginal discharges. There were no examinations at Sheik during the period of police surveillance. The women were probably relieved; a witness at the trial testified that the inspectors mocked and humiliated the women they were examining. The owner of Sheik testified during the trial that there were two to three inspections per month, and listed inspections to confirm that the business permits were in order, that there was a fire extinguisher, and that the entertainers had their sanitary pads.\nThe city continued the police registration and medical inspections of women in the local brothels after the time Argentina's anti-trafficking law was passed in 2008 (see the article Human trafficking in Argentina) until the first brothel raids in 2012. In addition, one source says that the city charged for inspections and the renewal of a woman's health book, which occurred quarterly.\n\nThis matches a historical pattern in Argentina's Patagonia region. Municipal governments, strongly influenced by local businessmen, wanted to use their powers of regulation to maintain their tax bases and were opposed to too much interference in the brothel business. The provincial police had other funding sources and wanted to restrict brothel activities in unprofitable ways. The municipal government of Rio Gallegos was founded in 1912, and by 1914 there was already conflict between the city and the police of Santa Cruz province over the regulation of brothels.\nIn the case of Ushuaia, the conflict was between the municipal government and the federal justice system. About the same time as the police raid on Sheik, the city council of Ushuaia was advised that it should pass a law closing the remaining nightclubs.\nA sampling of council members' responses:\n\nNone of the women working at Sheik were from Ushuaia. Some came from elsewhere in Argentina and some came from other countries. The women picked up in police raids in Ushuaia included women from the Dominican Republic and Colombia. When a woman agreed to work at Sheik, the nightclub would send her an airline ticket, which she paid back from her share of the money she charged the clients.\n\nPedro Montoya, the owner, testified that all the women came from other brothels, either in Ushuaia or elsewhere. Kinan herself worked at two brothels in Ushuaia. Montoya said that he got calls from women asking to work at Sheik. Montoya and his girlfriend and business partner Ivana Claudia García were responsible for recruitment, but García seems to have done most of the recruiting with help from her brother, whose sole function at the nightclub was recruiter.\n\nWomen were recruited from various provinces, including Santiago del Estero, Córdoba, Santa Fe, and Buenos Aires, as well as from outside the country. Between 2009 and 2012, Victor Morales published more than 100 ads in Buenos Aires newspapers. Two of the ads running in the newspaper Clarin offered waitresses 20,000 pesos per month, and dancers 10,000 pesos per month. Both offered travel expenses to Ushuaia, lodging, and relocation expenses.\nThe women who were recruited with these ads discovered that once they had arrived at Ushuaia, they were expected to repay the travel costs. Morales was more honest with a sex worker he recruited through an ad and told her during their initial contact that she would repay him with the money from her sessions with clients. One of the sources who saw transcripts of the police wire taps put it this way:\n\nWhile this approach may have helped persuade more women to travel to Ushuaia, it also meant that some left as soon as they arrived.\n\nPolice telephone taps recorded the following conversation:\n\nMorales wasn't telling her that both the city and provincial governments would label her a prostitute, the provincial police would fingerprint her, check her criminal record, and open a file on her, or that the city would periodically inspect her genitals, test her for STIs, and maintain a record of the results.\n\nA women who had worked as a professional dancer answered one of Morales' ads for dancers. While Morales explains about selling drinks to \"Nancy\" in the transcript above, the dancer didn't learn about it until her first night in the nightclub. That was also when she learned that she was expected to make herself available for sexual sessions with the clients. When she objected to working in a brothel, one of the female managers slapped her and fined her four hundred pesos for talking back. She said that one night she hid in a bathroom and the managers beat her and forced her back to the bar.\n\nIn contrast, eleven of the eighteen women at the brothel when the police raided it told investigators that they were there by their own choice. They didn't feel that they had been tricked or that they were being exploited.\n\nOver a period of two years, the city of Ushuaia issued seventy health books to Black & White. Since each health book represents a new employee, the nightclub was recruiting about three new employees every month. Assuming that the nightclub employed an average of eighteen women over that two year time period, the average period of employment would be about six months. Once the nightclub hired a woman, it would need to recruit her replacement six months later.\n\nIn addition to ads, women were recruited through informal networks. One woman contacted Morales through a friend. Another was recruited through contacts at Madaho's, a well known bar (strip joint\n\n) in the Recoleta neighborhood of Buenos Aires.\n\nDuring the trial, lawyers for the complainant described the women living in rooms off the main hall of the nightclub, which they described as small, dirty, bad smelling, and visited by rats. Kinan described their quarters as a \"zulo\" (a cramped, impoverished living space) lacking hot water, with 2 people sharing a room. There was a bell in the area of the rooms activated at the bar which was rung to signal to the woman that a client had entered the nightclub. Each room had its own entrance separate from the nightclub's main entrance and each of the women had their own key.\n\nPrior to the raid on Black & White, the women serviced their clients in their rooms. Testimony at the trial described them using bleach to remove blood and semen stains from their mattresses. In addition to sharing a room with a coworker, each woman was also bringing clients into her room an average of two to three times a night. (See Money section.) With two women in a room, that would be a minimum of four client visits per room per night. There wouldn't have been much privacy.\n\nA post on a monger board made in 2006 says that Sheik had four bedrooms, which matches with other testimony. However, the post says that Sheik had eighteen women working there at the time.\nIf they were all living at the brothel, that would be four women in each of two rooms and five women in each of the other two, with a corresponding number of client visits to each room every night. Even if some of the women were living and servicing their clients off-site, it would have been pretty crowded.\n\nUnlike Sheik, the women at Black & White lived off-site. They shared a house with coworkers and paid 300 pesos rent per month. Rent for one room in Ushuaia can go as high as 15,000 pesos per month, so the rent charged by Black & White was not unreasonable for shared living space. The nightclub had two rooms where the women and their clients had their sessions, so the women weren't bringing clients into their living space.\n\nWhile the women at Sheik had keys to their living quarters, one witness reported being barred from leaving the house where Black & White's employees lived. She said that there were three men who lived in the house who transported them between the house and the nightclub. When she wanted to walk out of the house onto the street in order to have a phone conversation with relatives without house mates around, the men prevented her from leaving.\n\nIn contrast, Kinan was working at Black & White during all but a few months of the first three years she lived in Ushuaia. During this period she rented a place for her sister to live in, which suggests that she was free to travel around the city and conduct business. The dancer who objected to being tricked into working at a brothel sometimes left the house on her own and was allowed to use a computer with Internet access.\n\nOne of the women was mentally ill, and the prosecutors said that she was imprisoned. From the prosecutors statements, it's impossible to tell if the brothel recruited her inadvertently and didn't know how to care for her properly while they figured out how to get rid of her, or if they were taking advantage of her illness in some way.\nThe city is far enough south that during the summer there is daylight twenty four hours a day. The premises opened at 8 pm. The police testimony at the trial described women arriving at the nightclub from the living quarters. The women were required to be on duty from 11 pm to 6 am, and received one day off each week. (In one interview, Kinan said that the work shift started at 11:30 pm.) However, Kinan testified that shifts could extend to 8 am or even 2 pm. There was a listing near the bar with prices for drinks and women. The women were available for 15 minutes, 30 minutes, and 1 hour. Police witnesses said that men started arriving at the nightclub around midnight, and women would leave with the men, returning alone. When a customer left the nightclub with a woman, he had to pay the nightclub the price of a cup or half a cup, depending on how long the woman was going to be gone. (The nightclub paid 20 pesos for a drink and charged the customers 150 pesos, which the owner himself described as \"cheating the customers\".)\n\nWhen the women first arrived at Ushuaia, the nightclub seems to have given them names to use while working. Kinan was given the name \"Carla\". The women wore shorts or dresses while working, with tops, exaggerated high heels, and carefully styled hair. Clothing was brightly colored. Police officers described the clothing as scanty and less than is normally worn in a pub. (This may be an exaggeration. The two sex workers in a photo taken at the Black & White Club in Ushuaia look like any two women at a bar.)\n\nWomen were not allowed to wear the same clothes two days in a row and were required to smell like imported perfume. According to the owner Montoya, they were to be \"fine whores\".\nThe nightclub Black & White had been raided about six months before the police raid at Sheik. Prior to the raid at Black & White, the women at Sheik had serviced their clients in the rooms where they lived. After the raid at Black & White, the women and their clients left Sheik and either went to the client's home or to a hotel room.\n\nWomen who were menstruating were required to stanch the flow with a sponge to avoid getting the client dirty.\n\nKinan described her clients as\n\nUntil the raids, \"quecos\", or tours of the brothels, were an accepted male pastime.\n\nWomen could be fined for refusing a client, for client complaints, or \"delaying too much\" with a client (i.e. going over the allotted time). For poor single women supporting children, the fines were coercive. If a woman tried to avoid a fine by accepting a client with a bad reputation and showed displeasure during an abusive session, she could end up earning less if the client complained and she was fined. The women's ability to manage or negotiate client behavior was considerably reduced. Even the fine for \"delaying too much\" placed her at the client's mercy. Kinan describes the result:\n\nThe nightclub had installed bells in the women's rooms that they could ring if they needed help, for example if a client became violent. However, Kinan testified that often no one would come, the excuse being that the manager was busy with customers. In addition, women were expected to encourage clients to buy them the nightclub's overpriced drinks. The constant consumption of alcohol further reduced the women's ability to handle badly behaved clients. Kinan tells the following story, which illustrates the combined effects of coercive fines, too much alcohol, and managerial indifference:\n\nIn at least one instance, the managers punished a women who used a bottle to defend herself against four clients who wanted to rape her. The information source doesn't say what the punishment was, only that it lasted a month. Her offense was failing to serve the clients well.\nOn the subject of condoms, if a client was too forceful during penetration and tore one, the women got a syringe full of vinegar in the vagina.\n\nIn regard to her experience with violent clients, Kinan says:\n\nThe brothel operated from midnight to 6 am. According to an employee, the nightclub had the same clients found at Sheik: \"... policemen, high-ranking officials, gendarmes and municipal personnel.\" The fines were similar to the fines imposed at Sheik, and a client complaint or a session that went over its allotted time could cost a woman over half of her share of the earnings from the session.\n\nAside from numbing effects of alcohol, the women were being paid to sell and consume drinks. The drinks the women persuaded the men to buy were an important source of income for both the women and the brothel. When a woman approached a potential client, she would tell him to buy her a drink. If a women averaged two to three sessions per night (see Money section), that suggests that a woman's clients bought her at least two drinks on the average night. Since she was getting a share of the earnings from the drinks, it was in her interest, financially if not in terms of health, to persuade clients to buy her more. According to the U.S. National Institutes of Health, drinking more than three drinks per night or seven drinks per week is high-risk drinking for a woman.\nBrothels didn't sell drugs as part of their business, but they were present. They show up in Kinan's interviews as part of the environment she worked in. If a client paid for an hour with a woman and wanted her to do a line of coke with him, the ever-present threat of fines and the pressure to keep the client happy would have made it hard to refuse. Stimulants would also counter the effects of alcohol and help the woman stay alert enough to continue working into the morning.\n\nPolice officers who entered Sheik undercover said that women would approach the clients and tell them to buy them a drink, which was paid for at the bar. When the women and their clients conducted their sessions at a hotel, payment for the room was made at the bar. However, the women seem to have collected the payment for their services directly from the clients and paid the nightclub's share to the manager. As mentioned in the Ushuaia section above, the women turned half of the money over to the nightclub.\n\nThe nightclub kept all the money for the first five drinks a woman persuaded customers to buy in one night, and then split the proceeds with the woman for all successive drinks. Kinan said that an average night for one woman was eighteen drinks and eight sessions with clients. (The Black & White section below gives an estimate of two to three clients per night.) Given the high price of the drinks, the women's share of the proceeds from their sale was probably an important source of income for them.\n\nReportedly, they were forced to buy clothes, shoes, jewelery, perfumes and condoms from the nightclub. Women were fined for taking too long to come when the bell was rung, for not cleaning, for taking longer than the client paid for, for taking a day off, for refusing to have sex with a client, and for a number of other offences.\n\nKinan described how the managers maintained the \"libro de pases\". In the brothel trade, a \"pase\" is a session in which a prostitute provides sexual services to a client. A \"libro de pases\" is basically a log of the brothel's business activities.\n\nThe recruitment pitch quoted above gives minimum prices for sessions of between 300 and 500 pesos, depending on the time involved. Actual prices were between 600 and 800 pesos. The women kept 60% to 70% of the fee. Black & White had the same system of fines as Sheik, with fines for being late, not cleaning, and going over the time the client had paid for, and so on. Most fines were around 300 pesos. The women where charged 400 pesos for each of the city's health inspections. The brothel transported women to Ushuaia by buying their airline tickets, and the women paid the brothel back from their earnings.\n\nAccording to the testimony of the managers, each women generated 900 pesos a night in earnings for the brothel. Since the brothel was keeping 30% to 40% of the client fees, and the women were charging between 600 and 800 pesos, and the brothel was earning money from the drinks the women sold, then the women were probably averaging two to three men per night, less than half of Kinan's estimate. That would have made traffic through the two brothel bedrooms a lot more manageable.\n\nWhen the nightclub was raided, none of the women had more than fifteen pesos with them. Their earnings were held by the Morales family, \"for safety.\" If they didn't have access to a bank, the house where they lived and where they had no control over who their house mates were was probably not a secure place to keep large sums of cash. Banking with the Morales family was probably more secure than cash under the mattress.\n\nClaudia Quiroga, who managed Sheik at an earlier time, paid for the airline tickets that brought the women to Ushuaia, bought clothes, paid for lodging, and the women paid her back from their earnings. Kinan described this as credit extended from Quiroga personally, and the owner testified at his trial that the manager at the time of the police raid paid for the women's airplane tickets out of her salary. Presumably, the women would have repaid the manager and not the nightclub. This seems to show the managers personally making loans to the sex workers. On the other hand, the managers who made loans were part owners, and there may have been no clear line between their money and the nightclub's money.\n\nAt least some of the women who worked at Sheik arrived in such a state of poverty that the nightclub or its managers had to extend credit for the airplane fare, clothes for the women to wear while working, and housing. The employees would not have been able to work at Sheik and the nightclub would not have been able to recruit and keep employees without making loans to them.\n\nKinan has said \"Every time we said we wanted to leave, we were told that we could not because we had debts,\" which suggests that employees were bound to the nightclub by debt bondage. Furthermore, the nightclub held the women's documentation, which may have made it difficult to travel or leave the nightclub. However, Kinan was working at the Black & White in 1996, which means she changed employer just a few months after she started working at Sheik. Without an accounting of the women's debts and a record of their movement between employers and into and out of the city, it's impossible to know how bound to their employers the women were.\n\nDebt bondage usually involves high interest rates, which sometimes cause the debt to grow faster than it can be paid off. However, none of the available information on loans made to Sheik's employees mention interest. That, plus the personal nature of the loans, suggests that the nightclub wasn't making money off the loans. On the other hand, it's entirely possible that managers tried to stop women from leaving before they had repaid loans owed to the managers personally.\n\nThe many and intrusive fines could have been a cause of debt bondage. If the fines were levied often enough they could have caused the women's debts to grow faster than they could pay them off. But again, the women seemed to move between brothels on their own initiative. The fines seemed to be more effective as a means of control while the women were employed than as a means of keeping them from leaving employment.\n\nWhen Kinan first arrived in Ushuaia, the city was at the end of a manufacturing boom. Factory wages in Ushuaia were twice as high as they were in Buenos Aires. Baumol's cost disease indicates that service wages, including sex work wages, would also be doubled. But the cost of living was three times as high, meaning that both factory and service workers were earning less in real terms. During both periods that Kinan was working in Ushuaia as a sex worker, the cost of living was higher than more northern parts of Argentina. Anyone moving there for higher wages would discover that they were having trouble retaining the extra money they were earning. When the women at Sheik complained about not being able to hold on to a single peso, their complaints may have been due as much to the cost of living as to the fines and costs the brothel was imposing on them.\n\nAside from feelings of shame, it simply would not have been possible to raise children in the brothel. The shared living spaces, the presence of clients and the sexual services provided in the living spaces, the working hours that extended to 6 am or later, and the sale of alcohol all ruled out the presence of children.\n\nAll of the women were mothers and all of them were living apart from their children. When Kinan's life was turned upside down by the police raid, her first impulse was to return to her children. A full understanding the situation of Kinan and her coworkers would require an accounting of child care costs, knowing who provided child care and on what terms, and the complex of contradictory feelings they had toward their job and their children. That information isn't available.\n\nAs mentioned in the Recruitment section, sex workers in Ushuaia were recruited from all over Latin America, and Sheik itself had at least one recruiter. None of the available sources talk about leaving employment, but the presence of a recruiter shows that recruitment required more effort than the managers could devote to it on their own. Sheik employed only seven women and wasn't expanding its workforce, which indicates that women were leaving as fast as they were being recruited. As the city of the world closest to Antarctica, Ushuaia is isolated, has a harsh climate, and a small population. It doesn't attract a lot of people, making it necessary for the brothels to recruit from many countries to replace women leaving the city.\n\nAccording to Kinan, women who behaved badly passed to other businesses where working conditions were worse. The owner of Sheik testified during the trial that he had had problems with Kinan and another woman and had intended to fire them. However, he never did, which suggests that he would have had trouble replacing them.\n\nAs mentioned above, Kinan changed employers once and left the brothel to move to Spain. The owner of Sheik reported hiring from other brothels and getting phone calls from women who wanted to work for him. If the constant debts and the withholding of documentation were intended to bind the workers to their employers, the measures weren't entirely successful.\n\nIf, as indicated in the Recruitment section above, Black & White was recruiting three new employees every month, then it was also losing three employees every month. Women were leaving six months after they were hired. Victor Morales' less-than-honest recruitment pitch resulted in some women leaving as soon as they arrived. The woman who was unnerved by the security cameras simply lifted the chain and walked out the door.\n\nOne might imagine that the women who stayed would be the ones who had previous experience with sex work and were used to the work, but that's not necessarily the case. The two sex workers recruited from Rosario left at the first opportunity.\n\nOne of the women taken into custody during the raid was about to be transferred to another province because \"she was a problem for the owner,\" according to one of her coworkers.\nAnother woman was told that she was going to be sent to Spain. There's no mention of anyone actually being sent to another location, so these may have been empty threats made in an attempt to control someone's behavior.\n\nWhile employed, the women didn't have possession of their earnings, which were held by the Morales family. This gave the managers an obvious way of collecting debts, provided the debt wasn't larger than the money the family held. In theory, the managers could have tried to prevent women from leaving the brothel by threatening to withhold their earnings, but none of the women appear to have complained about this happening. The fact that the cycle of recruitment and exit was so routine suggests that their exits were usually mutually agreed upon and the women left with their money.\n\nThe brothel held the identification documents of its employees. Almost all of them were at the bar in the nightclub, although a few were held in the owner's home. Getting a certificate of loss of documentation from the police is a matter of routine. The government of Argentina currently promises to provide replacement DNI cards within fifteen days of receiving an application. In the days of the \"libreta\" it reportedly could be done in a week to six weeks if there were no problems. Someone leaving the brothel and leaving their ID booklet behind could probably get a replacement.\n\nThe underage immigrant sex worker mentioned earlier that Morales recruited to work at the brothel doesn't seem to have been bound to the brothel when the managers held her documentation. When Morales recruited her, she was a seventeen year old immigrant from Paraguay who had been doing sex work prior to meeting him. She worked for him for two and a half years before leaving and making her way back to Buenos Aires. Several months after returning to Buenos Aires and just shortly before the police raid on Black & White, Morales showed up on her doorstep asking her to come back to the brothel. She was clearly an employee that Morales wanted to keep, but either he returned her documentation when she wanted to leave, or lack of documentation didn't stop her from leaving and traveling across the country. If she returned to Buenos Aires without documentation, she either had it replaced or managed without it.\n\nAt both Sheik and Black & White, fines, debt, and confiscating ID documentation may have helped managers control employee behavior, but they don't seem to have been particularly effective in preventing women from leaving. The ones that stayed the longest seemed to be the ones that had the worst job prospects. Alika Kinan and the Paraguayan immigrant both started sex work at seventeen because they couldn't support themselves any other way. Both came to Ushuaia in search of better paid sex work. Both left after working in the brothels for roughly three years. Kinan returned after eleven years of marriage left her with three children and no better job prospects. Length of employment seems to have had more to do with poverty and lack of alternative jobs than anything else.\n\nImmediately after the police raid at Sheik, all of the women denied being victims of trafficking and stated that they were sex workers who had been hired to do sex work. Two of them, Alika Kinan and another woman who has not been publicly identified, changed their minds and testified as victims during the trial, which occurred four years after the raid.\n\nKinan described herself and her coworkers at the time of the police raid:\n\nOn her work:\n\nHer rejection of victimization at the time of the raid:\n\nOn the brothels:\n\nOn the health inspections:\n\nThe effect of spending five hours in court describing life in the brothel:\n\nIn October 2012 Argentinian authorities raided Sheik. Kinan and six other people retained were determined by the prosecuting authorities to be trafficking victims. This made her angry, but she gradually came to agree. She says that the thing that led her to change her mind was a question from the prosecutor's secretary:\n\nThis was followed by what she describes as a long, agonizing process of self-reflection.\n\nThe city of Ushuaia supplied her with housing for one month and twenty days. The house had been declared uninhabitable by the Ministry of Social Development several months previously.\nAt one point Kinan says her family almost died from fumes from a faulty water heater. The authorities response was to shut off the gas, leaving them without heating. (Mean temperature in Ushuaia in the warmest month of the year is below 50 °F.) When the city tried to evict her at the end of the term, she turned to the María de los Angeles Foundation (founded by the mother of Marita Verón) for help, and the foundation's lawyers informed her that she was entitled to decent housing, work, subsidies, and to be reinserted into society. Kinan said:\n\nThrough the intervention of governor Fabiana Ríos, Kinan was granted a plot of land by the city of Ushuaia and a subsidy of 250,000 pesos to build a house. She signed a contract for 259,224 pesos for the house construction, but the contractor was apparently unable to carry out the contract. As the Court of Accounts was setting a deadline and threatening to sue for return of the subsidy, the State Attorney filed a case for eviction, to remove Kinan and her family from the temporary housing she was living in until the new house was built.\nHer lawyer claimed that the necessary documents had been filed a month previously. He pointed out that it's not possible to build a house in Ushuaia for 250,000 pesos, and the prefab housing company Kinan signed a contract with couldn't meet the city's documentation requirements. In the end, he was able to stave off the eviction, but Kinan's temporary house continued to be unheated.\nKinan became a complainant in the criminal case against her managers, and simultaneously filed a civil suit against her ex-managers and the municipality of Ushuaia. The legal theory behind the civil suit seems to have been the following: The city conducted regular medical exams on each sex worker in the city's brothels and recorded the results in a book the city maintained for each sex worker. In doing this with each of the city's prostitutes, the city regularized prostitution and became legally complicit in any trafficking that occurred. When her ex-managers were convicted of trafficking in the criminal case, the city became liable for the harm Kinan suffered as a prostitute under the city's jurisdiction.\nA social worker writing the initial report on Kinan concluded that she had not been a victim because she had not been submissive. When Kinan came to view herself as a victim, she made a claim to the authorities for her rights as a victim of trafficking, but was not recognized. She appealed to the courts, which refused her because the judge held that she had consented. At the next level of appeal, the appellate court found that there was a possibility that she had been a trafficking victim, but since she had not declared herself a victim when her employer was raided, she could not do so now. None of the available sources describe how this was resolved, but eventually she was recognized as a victim.\n\nOn November 19, 2011, a woman from Tucumán province in Argentina filed a complaint, claiming that she had been exploited in a brothel called Sheik in Ushuaia. She claimed that she lived there with other women, between the ages of twenty one and twenty eight, who were natives of Argentine, the Dominican Republic, and Colombia. On April 12, 2012, the head of Prosecutor's Office for Trafficking and Exploitation of Persons filed a formal complaint in the Federal Court of Ushuaia against the brothel.\nAfter an investigation, the National Gendarmerie raided the nightclub on October 8, 2012.\n\nThe lead up to the trial involved the usual legal maneuvering. Originally there were six defendants, but three were dismissed by the investigating judge. The first of these was Claudia Quiroga, Pedro Montoya's ex-wife, who owned the property where Sheik was located and had been Montoya's business partner. The second was Corina Sánchez, who had been the on-site supervisor. These two were no longer involved with the brothel at the time of the raid. The third person dismissed from the trial was Jorge Etcheverry, recruiter and brother of Ivana García, Montoya's girlfriend and business partner when the raid occurred.\n\nKinan's lawyer objected to the dismissals. The investigating judge had postponed Kinan's testimony repeatedly, and eventually dismissed the three without evidence from Kinan. Her lawyer insisted that Kinan could \"provide evidence, new data, more information regarding these accused and what their responsibility is.\" She appealed the dismissals, but they were sustained and the trial headed for the court date with only three defendants.\n\nA week before the trial began, Kinan's sister and ex-husband began criticizing her publicly. The sister, Maria Fernanda, who still lives in Europe, sent Kinan's ex-husband a video of a sexual scene in which the female was purportedly one of Kinan's daughters. It was later proved that the video did not involve her daughter.\nKinan's sister claimed that she had received it from someone in Ushuaia. Maria Fernanda said there was no truth in her sister's claims and she was concerned for her nieces. Kinan's ex-husband released the video to a journalist and claimed that his daughters were at risk. He was living in Scotland and said he couldn't afford to travel to Ushuaia, but offered to testify against his ex-wive via videoconference.\n\nShe also began getting threats. On a street in downtown Ushuaia, a group of people shouted \"\"Be careful what you are going to say at the trial.\" She received threats and insults on her cell phone and through her Facebook account. The trial prosecutor called the threats \"a well organized operation.\" The week before the trial she felt so threatened that she kept herself and her family in the house.\nThe police guarded her house until the beginning of the trial, and she joined a witness protection program.\n\nOn a positive note, she got a new personal lawyer for the trial, a woman she felt she could trust: Marcela Rodríguez, the coordinator of the Counseling and Sponsorship Program for Victims of Trafficking in Persons of the Office of the Ombudsman. And a large number of number of social and feminist organizations organized in her support.\n\nBecause she continued to receive threats during the trial, Kinan's protectors restricted her movement and communication. One observer pointed out that the people eventually convicted of trafficking her were not detained and enjoyed complete freedom of movement and communication.\n\nArgentina doesn't have separate civil and criminal courts, and the civil and criminal cases against Kinan's managers at the nightclub Sheik were carried out simultaneously before the same panel of judges. During the trial, Kinan testified in a Gesell chamber, so that the accused were not able to witness her testimony. A witness known only as \"F\" testified under the same conditions.\n\nThe defendants were charged with violating Argentina's anti-trafficking law. The law has a four part test for trafficking: recruitment; transport; receiving and/or harboring persons; and exploitation. (See Human trafficking in Argentina.) The prosecution claimed that the defendants recruited by advertising in media, they transported their victims by advancing money for their plane tickets, and they received and harbored them by meeting them at the airport and bringing them to the brothel and housing them there. To show exploitation they claimed that the victims had characteristics of social vulnerability when recruited, and that they were bound to the brothel by debts and rules that compromised their ability to leave when they chose.\n\nThe prosecutors argued that requiring the women to use a sponge during menstruation was proof that the women weren't working willingly. (Many independent escorts use a sponge so their clients won't know that they're menstruating, and some prefer the sponge to the usual tampons and sanitary napkins. However, women vary a lot in the pain they experience during menstruation. Even a woman who usually doesn't have problems may have a bad month. Escorts participating in a discussion of this on an on-line forum said that forcing women to work when they feel bad or need rest is exploitative, even if the sponge itself isn't a problem.\n\nKinan's lawyer argued that the defendants' actions violated the 1949 UN protocol on trafficking, which Argentina has signed. (See Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others.) She pointed out that under the protocol, a victim's consent is immaterial.\n\nMontoya's lawyer made the following arguments:\n\nHe pointed out that Montoya had faced a similar charge in the provincial court in 2011 and the case had been dismissed.\n\nExcerpts from Pedro Montoya's testimony:\n\nA team of psychologists and psychiatrists asserted that Kinan suffered from PTSD which caused sleep disorders and made her afraid of embracing and of touching things that had passed through many hands, such as money. They recommended psychological counseling three times a week for twenty years, which would cost 2,496,000 pesos at current prices. In addition, scars on her face and missing teeth were physical evidence of the violence she had suffered. The experts testified that Kinan is expected to be 70% incapacitated.\n\nThe municipality of Ushuaia argued that it had no legal liability because any laws and international treaties violated by the brothel's actions fell under the jurisdiction of the federal and provincial governments, and the city's actions had all been consistent with law. It also pointed out that it was cooperating with a foundation created by Alika Kinan for the purpose of assisting victims of trafficking.\n\nThe doctor from Ushuaia Regional Hospital who issued the health books testified. When asked if she ever issued health books to men, she said she only issued them to women and \"sex change.\"\n\nOn 30 November 2016, the court decided in Kinan's favor. The city of Ushuaia was ordered to pay Kinan 780,000 pesos (about US$47,000.) The owner of Sheik received a prison sentence of seven years and a fine of 70,000 pesos. His girlfriend/business partner got a three-year suspended sentence and a fine of 30,000 pesos. The woman who managed the club received a three-year suspended sentence.\nAs part of the suspended sentences, the court placed restrictions on where the two women could reside, required them to avoid overconsumption of alcohol, and ordered them to refrain from using narcotics.\nThe prosecutor stated that even though the penalties were less than the prosecution had requested, the verdict was a change in the way the judicial system viewed sex trafficking.\n\nOn 1 December 2016, the court published the grounds for its decision. At that point the convicted exercised their right of appeal and remained free. Kinan continues to feel anxiety over the outcome and she's also still getting threats.\nThe protective personnel provided by the government Program for Rescue were withdrawn.\n\nThe Ushuaia city counsel ended the licensing of brothels in 2013, effectively putting them all out of business. Many of the women left to continue sex work elsewhere. Most of them went to Punta Arenas in Chile. A ferry service connects Punta Arenas with the island of Tierra del Fuego where Ushuaia is located, making it easy to move there. The brothels of southern Chile are active, operate similarly to the ones driven out of Ushuaia, and Punta Arenas is visited by the same types of ships that gave Ushuaia many of its customers for its sex business.\n\nThe women left, but they've been replaced. There are still places where you can rent a room for an hour. There's a wider variety of business models, but the dominant one is reportedly the private apartment. While Kinan and her coworkers lived two to a room, the new model is three to an apartment. If sex workers in Ushuaia benefited from closing the brothels, it was primarily from the change in housing; they now have hot water. Women still come from the same places far away from Ushuaia, but they rotate in and out faster. Advertising is done on the web, where the pictures and names change, but the phone numbers stay the same. Periodically, the police raid an apartment and liberate its occupants, rendering them homeless until they can reconnect with their pimps. While they are working for their pimps, they are plagued by the same system of debts that plagued Kinan and her coworkers. When the police liberate them, they become homeless mothers with no way of supporting their children. Kinan believes that the official count of rescued women is inflated because many of the women have been rescued one or more times previously.\n\nKinan currently works at the National University of San Martín, in Buenos Aires, doing research and giving lectures on human trafficking, and organizes activities related to the same topic.\nKinan is an abolitionist opposed to decriminalization. She believes that trafficking can only be abolished by giving women the things that she herself has struggled for.\n\nIn Kinan's view, women enter sex work because they lack housing, jobs, and education. But she also views sex workers as trapped by not understanding that they are victims and have rights.\n\nFor Kinan, the alternative to abolishing sex work is regulating it. Her experience of regulation was the medical exams at Ushuaia, where physicians authorized by the city ridiculed and disparaged the sex workers they were examining. This combined with similar treatment from clients leads her to place regulators and clients in interlocking roles.\n\nKinan wants to attack commercialized sex in three steps. First is the end of government regulation and shutting down sex-related businesses via the existing anti-trafficking law. The next step is to eliminate the commodity being sold by giving women the resources that make it unnecessary for them to turn to sex work for survival.\n\nFailure to take this step means that women return to their traffickers.\n\nThe final step is to eliminate the buyer by criminalizing the client, but this must proceed from the second step described above, which Kinan calls \"the restoration of rights.\"\n\nArgentina has a union of sex workers called Ammar that is part of CTA, a trade union federation. As a sex worker, Kinan saw herself as a strong woman doing a difficult job, but she now believes that viewpoint is a part of victimization.\n\nShe has no sympathy for Ammar or other sex worker rights organizations, viewing them as essentially the same as the managers at the brothels where she worked.\n\nPart of Alika Kinan's story is the fact that news sources report things about her that are contradicted by other sources. Since there's no way of knowing why different information is being reported a different times, nothing in this section should be taken as evidence that anyone is intentionally being untruthful.\n\nIn at least two different interviews, Kinan has apparently said that she was eighteen years old when she arrived at Ushuaia.\n\nOne source says Kinan was trapped by prostitution for twenty years. Another says that she was trapped in a brothel for nearly twenty years. Another claims that she was \"a victim of trafficking networks and male clients for two decades.\"\nAnd another says she was \"a victim of forced prostitution for 16 years.\"\n\nShe did sex work in Córdoba for three years, worked in brothels in Ushuaia for three years, and after returning to Ushuaia from Spain, worked in one brothel for another two years. These three time periods add up to about eight years.\n\nWhen news reports say that Kinan was trapped in a brothel for twenty years, they're referring to the brothel named Sheik. In Córdoba, she worked at a brothel named Aries. In Ushuaia, she worked at both Sheik and Black & White.\n\nOn the subject of entrapment, a writer familiar with the details of Kinan's history wrote that \"Alika Kinan was not kidnapped or cheated...\"\n\nOne news report says that she was held prisoner.\nThe sources cited use the word \"trapped\" in a context implying some sort of physical coercion. In Córdoba she didn't live in the brothel. The brothel work paid for the place she rented for herself and her younger sister. While working at Black & White she rented another place for her sister, indicating that she could travel around the city and conduct business. While working at Sheik, she had keys to the entrance to her living quarters. She worked under abusive and expolitative conditions, compelled by poverty and the need to support people dependent on her. But she has ruled out physical coercion in two different interviews.\n\nAs far as trickery or deceptive recruiting is concerned, in Córdoba there was no need for the brothel to recruit her. She and her sister were starving, she was desperate, and she had no alternatives. She went to Ushuaia to work at Sheik because they paid better. It's not clear why she moved from Sheik to Black & White, but at Sheik she kept fifty percent of the client fees and at Black & White she kept sixty to seventy percent. Also, the women at Black & White didn't have to entertain their clients in their living quarters.\n\nIn 2015 a news report said that Kinan had up to ten or twelve clients a night. In 2016 she estimated an average of eight clients per night. In 2017, she told one interviewer that she had seen fifteen to thirty men per night, and she told another that she had twenty to thirty men per night.\n\nAs stated in the Money section above, brothel revenue data indicates that the women working in the brothels were averaging two to three clients per night.\n\nAccording to NPR, the women working in the brothel couldn't make friends outside the brothel. In Córdoba, Kinan actually did have friends outside the brothel. At both brothels in Ushuaia, she appears to have had freedom of movement outside the brothels. However, Ushuaia was a small city, everyone knew what she did for a living, and sex work has a lot of stigma. She probably was socially isolated, but mostly because of the stigma associated with her work.\n"}
{"id": "37963046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37963046", "title": "Anarkali Kaur Honaryar", "text": "Anarkali Kaur Honaryar\n\nAnarkali Kaur Honaryar is a Punjabi Sikh Afghan politician. She is also a women's rights activist and a dentist, as well as a medical doctor.\n\nWhen Taliban was ousted in 2001, Honaryar studied medicine at the Kabul University. She has been a member of the Loya Jirga which choose Afghanistan's interim government after the decline of Taliban, and also an Afghan Constitution Committee member. In 2006, she became a member of Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission.\n\nIn 2010, Honaryar was elected for the country's Meshranoi Jirga, and she was the first non-Muslim woman to achieve the milestone, she left from her post in mid 2015.\n\nHonaryar is a well-known human rights activist and has been awarded with the UNESCO-Madanjeet Singh Prize for the Promotion of Tolerance and Non-Violence. \"for her work helping women who suffer from domestic abuse, forced marriages and gender discrimination and for her commitment to promote the ideals of human dignity, human rights, mutual respect and tolerance in her country.\" Honaryar was also chosen by Radio Free Europe’s Afghan chapter as person of the year in 2009.<ref name=\"RFE/RL\"></ref>\n"}
{"id": "53461889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53461889", "title": "BedRoc Limited, LLC v. United States", "text": "BedRoc Limited, LLC v. United States\n\nBedRoc Limited, LLC v. United States, , is a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court decided sand and gravel are not \"valuable minerals\" reserved to the United States Government under the Pittman Underground Water Act of 1919. The Court sided in a 6–3 decision with the petitioner, BedRoc Limited, and reversed the decision of the Ninth Circuit Court. BedRoc Limited had removed sand and gravel from lands obtained under the Pittman Act, and the United States, the respondent, argued those were reserved to the U.S. Government under that law.\n\nWilliam Rehnquist wrote the majority opinion, that relied on a textualist approach, and was joined by three justices. He argued sand and gravel were not considered \"valuable minerals\" in Nevada when the Pittman Act was passed in 1919. A concurring opinion was written by Clarence Thomas, and joined by another justice. Two justices joined John P. Stevens' dissenting opinion, that relied on legislative history and a previous decision of the Supreme Court.\n\nIn 1940, Newton and Mabel Butler patented of land under the Pittman Underground Water Act (). The land was situated in Lincoln County, Nevada, north of Las Vegas. A tenant started extracting sand and gravel in the early 1990s. The land was sold to Earl Williams in 1993, and he continued to remove sand and gravel from the land. That same year, Williams received two trespass notices from the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), that argued he was removing mineral materials from public lands. Williams challenged the notices, but the BLM ruled that the government held a reservation to the \"valuable minerals\" on the land.\n\nIn 1995, BedRoc Limited, LLC bought the land, and continued to remove sand and gravel under an interim agreement with the Department of the Interior. Under the agreement, BedRoc Limited had to place money in escrow from the sale of each cubic yard of sand and gravel that the company removed, pending a final resolution. A year later, BedRoc Limited transferred of the land to Western Elite, Inc. The Interior Board of Land Appeals upheld the decision by the BLM in 1997, relying on the legislative history of the Pittman Act and on Congress' intent.\n\nSubsequently, BedRoc Limited filed an action to quiet title in the United States District Court of Nevada. BedRoc Limited demanded ownership of the sand and gravel, while the American government asked for trespass damages. On May 24, 1999, Justice Philip Martin Pro of the Court decided that sand and gravel were \"valuable minerals\" reserved to the American government under the Pittman Act. The Court asked itself whether sand and gravel were minerals, whether they were valuable, and whether the \"nonmineral\" certification of the Pittman Act had any influence. The Court argued sand and gravel were minerals, and decided they were valuable under the Pittman Act based on Congress' intent and on debates. Besides, the Court argued lands containing minerals could be classified as nonmineral.\n\nBedRoc Limited appealed to the Ninth Circuit Court, and Western Elite was added as a plaintiff. The three-judge panel consisting of Judges Michael Daly Hawkins, Susan P. Graber, and Richard C. Tallman argued on November 7, 2002, and affirmed the decision by the District Court. The opinion was written by Graber. After concluding the language of the Pittman Act itself was ambiguous, the Court deserted to the purpose of the law and to the legislative history. The Ninth Circuit Court decided sand and gravel were \"valuable minerals\" reserved to the United States, because there was a market for sand and gravel when the Pittman Act was enacted, and because Congress intended the reservation of the Pittman Act to be the same as the mineral reservation of the Stock-Raising Homestead Act. The Court said \"the mineral reservation [was] to be read broadly in the light of the agricultural purpose [of the law].\" BedRoc argued a site-specific analysis had to be used to determine whether sand and gravel were valuable, but the Court disagreed.\n\nThe Supreme Court granted certiorari on September 30, 2003, and the oral argument occurred on January 20 of the following year. During the argument, BedRoc Limited was represented by R. Timothy McCrum, while the United States Government was represented by Thomas L. Sansonetti. All justices asked questions or made remarks except for Clarence Thomas.\n\nThe patent to the land was granted under the Pittman Underground Water Act, that went into effect in 1919. Under that law, the Secretary of the Interior could grant patents to people who established a water supply. It only applied to Nevada. The eighth section of the Pittman Act stated that each patent contained \"a reservation to the United States of all the coal and other valuable minerals in the lands\" and the right for the government to \"prospect for, mine and remove the same\" under the laws in force during a disposal of the minerals.\n\nThe Supreme Court cited \"Watt v. Western Nuclear, Inc.\", a 1983 Supreme Court decision, in which the Court interpreted the mineral reservation of the Stock-Raising Homestead Act (SRHA), that was enacted in 1916. The Supreme Court decided gravel was a mineral reserved to the government under the SRHA. The Court looked at whether gravel was part of the surface estate, which belongs to the patentee, or to the mineral estate, which belongs to the government. It decided substances are reserved to the government when they are mineral in character, can be removed from the soil, can be used for commercial purposes, and when there is no reason for the substance to be included in the surface estate. The mineral reservation of the SRHA differs from the one of the Pittman Act, as the SRHA does not include the word \"valuable\".\n\nThe Court decided on March 31, 2004, and delivered three opinions. The majority opinion was supported by four justices, the concurring opinion by two, and the dissenting opinion by three. The majority argued sand and gravel were not valuable when the law was passed in 1919 according to common sense, while the dissenting opinion said the emphasis on the word \"valuable\" was unjust, and said it was Congress' intent to include sand and gravel in the reservation. The concurring opinion acknowledged the emphasis on valuable was unjust, while saying the word \"mineral\" itself includes the requirement of commercial purpose as was decided in \"Watt v. Western Nuclear, Inc.\"\n\nThe majority opinion was written by Chief Justice William Rehnquist, and joined by Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Antonin Scalia, and Anthony Kennedy. Adopting a textualist approach, the majority held that sand and gravel were not \"valuable minerals\" reserved to the government. The Court said it would not extend its decision in \"Watt v. Western Nuclear, Inc.\" to say that sand and gravel are valuable minerals. According to the majority, the Court had to focus on the meaning of the law when it was enacted, and it asked itself \"whether the sand and gravel found in Nevada were commonly regarded as “valuable minerals” in 1919.\" According to the majority, common sense said no, as sand and gravel were abundant, had no intrinsic value, and were commercially worthless in Nevada in 1919. The Court said sand and gravel could not be mistaken for \"valuable minerals\" no matter if they would be regarded as minerals.\n\nFurthermore, the Pittman Underground Water Act stated the disposal had to happen \"in accordance with the provisions of the coal and mineral land laws in force at the time of such disposal.\" The Court said Congress was referring to General Mining Act of 1872, that stated \"all valuable mineral deposits in lands belonging to the United States\" were \"free and open to exploration and purchase.\" The majority said it was undeniable that \"common sand and gravel could not constitute a locatable \"valuable mineral deposit\" under the General Mining Act.\"\n\nThe majority did not consider the legislative history as it did in \"Watt v. Western Nuclear, Inc.\", as the Pittman Act explicitly used the word \"valuable\" in contrast to the Stock-Raising Homestead Act (SRHA). Because of the absence of the word \"valuable\" in the SRHA, the Court had to speculate about Congress' intent in \"Watt v. Western Nuclear, Inc.\" Furthermore, by deciding in favor of the plaintiff, the Court left its principle that \"land grants are construed favorably to the Government... and if there are doubts they are reserved for the Government, not against it,\" which it called an \"established rule\" in \"Wat v. Western Nuclear, Inc.\"\n\nJustice Clarence Thomas wrote a concurring opinion, that was joined by Justice Stephen Breyer. Thomas agreed with the dissenting opinion that no distinction could be made between the mineral reservation in the Pittman Underground Water Act and in the Stock-Raising Homestead Act (SRHA). He, however, argued that sand and gravel are not part of the mineral reservations of both laws, disagreeing with \"Watt v. Western Nuclear, Inc.\"\n\nThomas argued the emphasis the majority lays on the word \"valuable\" was unjust, as the Pittman Act uses \"valuable minerals\" and \"minerals\" interchangeably. Thomas said both phrases therefore were meant as synonymous. Moreover, Thomas said if \"valuable\" was the source of the requirement that the minerals should have commercial worth, that would be inconsistent with \"Watt v. Western Nuclear, Inc.\", because that decision said that a substance was a mineral when it could be used for commercial purposes. Thomas, in his opinion, disagreed with the conclusion of \"Watt v. Western Nuclear, Inc.\" He did not agree that sand and gravel are minerals under the SRHA only because, hypothetically, \"they could have been used for commercial purposes,\" when the SRHA was passed. Thomas agreed with the majority opinion that according to common sense and the statutory context sand and gravel could not be used for commercial purposes, when the Pittman Act was passed in 1919. Thomas wrote in his opinion that he did not advocate overruling \"Watt v. Western Nuclear, Inc.\" despite disagreeing with the decision.\n\nJustice John P. Stevens wrote a dissenting opinion, that was joined by Justices David Souter and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Stevens said the majority opinion depended entirely on the word \"valuable\", and he rejected this emphasis. He said the reservation of the Pittman Underground Water Act was meant to be the same as that of the Stock-Raising Homestead Act (SRHA).\n\nStevens called it highly unlikely that Congress meant to make a distinction between the reservation of the Pittman Act and the one of the SRHA, as it would be illogical that Congress would have wanted a reservation to the sand and gravel in lands covered by the SRHA, but not to the sand and gravel in lands covered by the Pittman Act. Besides, Stevens referred to a House Committee Report which said section 8 of the Pittman Act contained the same reservation of minerals as the SRHA. Stevens criticized the majority opinion for ignoring the fact that \"Watt v. Western Nuclear, Inc.\" already stated that a substance must be valuable to be a mineral. Moreover, he said \"valuable minerals\" and \"minerals\" were meant to be synonymous, as the Pittman Act contains the phrase \"valuable minerals\" twice and the words \"minerals\" and \"mineral\" without the word \"valuable\" eight times.\n\nStevens did not rule out the possibility that the majority opinion in \"Watt v. Western Nuclear, Inc.\" misinterpreted Congress' intention, but he said there was no reason to choose another assessment of the Congress' intention over the old one. Stevens criticized the majority opinion for not using legislative history in order to find the Congress' original intent, which could result into decisions based on personal preference. The majority argued looking at the legislative history was unnecessary because of the clear language of the Pittman Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "1073284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1073284", "title": "Bologna declaration", "text": "Bologna declaration\n\nThe Bologna Declaration (in full, Joint Declaration of the European Ministers of Education convened in Bologna on 19 June 1999) is the main guiding document of the Bologna process. It was adopted by ministers of education of 29 European countries at their meeting in Bologna in 1999.\n\nIt proposed a European Higher Education Area in which students and graduates could move freely between countries, using prior qualifications in one country as acceptable entry requirements for further study in another.\n\nThe principal aims agreed were:\n\n\nThe Bergen meeting subsequently refined the second point, and produced a three-cycle framework of qualifications, which in the UK terminology (adopted, at least partially, by many European countries) would be Bachelor for a first degree of three years, Master for subsequent study, and Doctor for a degree which has \"made a contribution through original research that extends the frontier of knowledge by developing a substantial body of work\".\n\nThe Bologna declaration has later been followed up a series of meetings between EU ministers. Each meeting has produced a communiqué based on their deliberations. To date these include the Prague communiqué (2001), the Berlin communiqué (2003), the Bergen communiqué (2005), the London communiqué (2007) the Leuven & Louvain-la-Neuve communiqué (2009).\n\nEuropean Commission has published ( European Communities, Feb. 2009) an \"ECTS Users’ Guide\", including one \"Overview of national regulations (...)\" and \"Status of the proclamation\".\n\nThe Bologna Ministerial Anniversary Conference 2010 in Budapest and Vienna was held in March 2010. It issued the Budapest-Vienna Declaration.\n\nThe communiqués indicate that progress is being made towards the Bologna Declaration's aim of a European Higher Education Area, however such an area is not universally accepted as being a desirable outcome.\n\nAccording to the Budapest-Vienna declaration, the next Ministerial Meeting was held in Bucharest on 26–27 April 2012.\n"}
{"id": "79774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79774", "title": "Canadian Confederation", "text": "Canadian Confederation\n\nCanadian Confederation () was the process by which the British colonies of Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick were united into one Dominion of Canada on July 1, 1867. Upon confederation, the old province of Canada was divided into Ontario and Quebec; along with Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, the new federation thus comprised four provinces. Over the years since Confederation, Canada has seen numerous territorial changes and expansions, resulting in the current union of ten provinces and three territories.\n\nCanada is a federation and not a confederate association of sovereign states, which \"confederation\" means in contemporary political theory. It is nevertheless often considered to be among the world's more decentralized federations. The use of the term \"Confederation\" arose in the Province of Canada to refer to proposals beginning in the 1850s to federate all of the British North American colonies, as opposed to only Canada West (Ontario) and Canada East (Quebec). To contemporaries of Confederation the \"con-\" prefix indicated a strengthening of the centrist principle compared to the American federation.\n\nIn this Canadian context, \"confederation\" generally describes the political process that united the colonies in the 1860s, related events and the subsequent incorporation of other colonies and territories. The term is now often used to describe Canada in an abstract way, such as in \"the Fathers of Confederation\". Provinces and territories that became part of Canada after 1867 are also said to have joined, or entered into, confederation (but not \"the Confederation\"). The term is also used to divide Canadian history into pre-Confederation (i.e. pre-1867) and post-Confederation (i.e. post-1867) periods.\n\nAll the former colonies and territories that became involved in the Canadian Confederation on July 1, 1867, were initially part of New France, and were once ruled by France. Nova Scotia was granted in 1621 to Sir William Alexander under charter by James VI. This claim overlapped the French claims to Acadia, and although the Scottish colony of Nova Scotia was short-lived, for political reasons, the conflicting imperial interests of France and the 18th century Great Britain led to a long and bitter struggle for control. The British acquired present-day mainland Nova Scotia by the Treaty of Utrecht of 1713 and the Acadian population was expelled by the British in 1755. They called Acadia Nova Scotia, which included present-day New Brunswick. The rest of New France was acquired by the British by the Treaty of Paris (1763), which ended the Seven Years' War. From 1763 to 1791, most of New France became the Province of Quebec. However, in 1769 the present-day Prince Edward Island, which had been part of Acadia, was renamed \"St John's Island\" and organized as a separate colony. It was renamed \"Prince Edward Island\" in 1798 in honour of Prince Edward, Duke of Kent and Strathearn.\n\nThe first English attempt at settlement had been in Newfoundland, which would not join Confederation until 1949. The Society of Merchant Venturers of Bristol began to settle Newfoundland and Labrador at Cuper's Cove as far back as 1610, and Newfoundland had also been the subject of a French colonial enterprise.\n\nIn the wake of the American Revolution, an estimated 50,000 United Empire Loyalists fled to British North America. The British created the separate colony of New Brunswick in 1784 for the Loyalists who settled in the western part of Nova Scotia. While Nova Scotia (including New Brunswick) received slightly more than half of this influx, many Loyalists also settled in the Province of Quebec, which by the Constitutional Act of 1791 was separated into a predominantly English Upper Canada and a predominantly French Lower Canada. The War of 1812 and Treaty of 1818 established the 49th parallel as the border with the United States from the Great Lakes to the Rocky Mountains in Western Canada.\n\nFollowing the Rebellions of 1837, Lord Durham in his Durham Report, recommended that Upper and Lower Canada be joined as the Province of Canada and that the new province should have a responsible government. As a result of Durham's report, the British Parliament passed the Act of Union 1840, and the Province of Canada was formed in 1841. The new province was divided into two parts: Canada West (the former Upper Canada) and Canada East (the former Lower Canada). Governor General Lord Elgin granted ministerial responsibility in 1848, first to Nova Scotia and then to Canada. In the following years, the British would extend responsible government to Prince Edward Island (1851), New Brunswick (1854), and Newfoundland (1855).\n\nThe area which constitutes modern-day British Columbia is the remnants of the Hudson's Bay Company's Columbia District and New Caledonia District following the Oregon Treaty. Prior to joining Canada in 1871, British Columbia consisted of the separate Colony of British Columbia (formed in 1858, in an area where the Crown had previously granted a monopoly to the Hudson's Bay Company), and the Colony of Vancouver Island (formed in 1849) constituting a separate crown colony until it was united with the colony of British Columbia in 1866.\n\nThe remainder of modern-day Canada was made up of Rupert's Land and the North-Western Territory (both of which were controlled by the Hudson's Bay Company and sold to Canada in 1870) and the Arctic Islands, which were under direct British control and became a part of Canada in 1880.\n\nThe idea of unification was presented in 1839 by Lord Durham in his Report on the Affairs of British North America, which resulted in the Union of Upper and Lower Canada. Beginning in 1857, Joseph-Charles Taché proposed a federation in a series of 33 articles published in the \"Courrier du Canada\".\n\nIn 1859, Alexander Tilloch Galt, George-Étienne Cartier and John Ross travelled to Great Britain to present the British Parliament with a project for confederation of the British colonies. The proposal was received by the London authorities with polite indifference. By 1864, it was clear that continued governance of the Province of Canada under the terms of the 1840 Act of Union had become impracticable. Therefore, a Great Coalition of parties formed in order to reform the political system.\n\nThere were several factors that influenced Confederation, both caused from internal sources and pressures from external sources.\n\n\nThere is extensive scholarly debate on the role of political ideas in Canadian Confederation. Traditionally, historians regarded Canadian Confederation an exercise in political pragmatism that was essentially non-ideological. In the 1960s, historian Peter Waite derided the references to political philosophers in the legislative debates on Confederation as \"hot air\". In Waite's view, Confederation was driven by pragmatic brokerage politics and competing interest groups.\n\nIn 1987, political scientist Peter J. Smith challenged the view that Canadian Confederation was non-ideological. Smith argued that Confederation was motivated by new political ideologies as much as the American and French Revolutions and that Canadian Confederation was driven by a Court Party ideology. Smith traces the origins of this ideology to eighteenth and nineteenth-century Britain, where political life was polarized between defenders of classical republican values of the Country Party and proponents of a new pro-capitalist ideology of the Court Party, which believed in centralizing political power. In British North America in the late 1860s, the Court Party tradition was represented by the supporters of Confederation, whereas the anti-capitalist and agrarian Country Party tradition was embodied by the Anti-Confederates.\n\nIn a 2000 journal article, historian Ian McKay argued that Canadian Confederation was motivated by the ideology of liberalism and the belief in the supremacy of individual rights. McKay described Confederation as part of the classical liberal project of creating a \"liberal order\" in northern North America. Many Canadian historians have adopted McKay's liberal order framework as a paradigm for understanding Canadian history.\n\nIn 2008, historian Andrew Smith advanced a very different view of Confederation’s ideological origins. He argues that in the four original Canadian provinces, the politics of taxation were a central issue in the debate about Confederation. Taxation was also central to the debate in Newfoundland, the tax-averse colony that rejected it. Smith argued Confederation was supported by many colonists who were sympathetic to a relatively interventionist, or statist, approach to capitalist development. Most classical liberals, who believed in free trade and low taxes, opposed Confederation because they feared that it would result in Big Government. The struggle over Confederation involved a battle between a staunchly individualist economic philosophy and a comparatively collectivist view of the state’s proper role in the economy. According to Smith, the victory of the statist supporters of Confederation over their anti-statist opponents prepared the way for Sir John A. Macdonald’s government to enact the protectionist National Policy and to subsidize major infrastructure projects such as the Intercolonial and Pacific Railways.\n\nIn 2007, political scientist Janet Ajzenstat connected Canadian Confederation to the individualist ideology of John Locke. She argued that the union of the British North American colonies was motivated by a desire to protect individual rights, especially the rights to life, liberty, and property. She contends that the Fathers of Confederation were motivated by the values of the Enlightenment of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. She argues that their intellectual debts to Locke are most evident when one looks at the 1865 debates in the Province of Canada’s legislature on whether or not union with the other British North American colonies would be desirable.\n\nIn the spring of 1864, New Brunswick premier Samuel Leonard Tilley, Nova Scotia premier Charles Tupper, and Prince Edward Island premier John Hamilton Gray were contemplating the idea of a Maritime Union which would join their three colonies together.\n\nThe Premier of the Province of Canada John A. Macdonald surprised the Atlantic premiers by asking if the Province of Canada could be included in the negotiations. The request was channelled through the Governor-General, Monck, to London and accepted by the Colonial Office. After several years of legislative paralysis in the Province of Canada caused by the need to maintain a double legislative majority (a majority of both the Canada East and Canada West delegates in the Province of Canada’s legislature), Macdonald had led his Liberal-Conservative Party into the Great Coalition with George-Étienne Cartier’s Parti bleu and George Brown’s Clear Grits. Macdonald, Cartier, and Brown felt that union with the other British colonies might be a way to solve the political problems of the Province of Canada.\n\nThe Charlottetown Conference began on September 1, 1864. Since the agenda for the meeting had already been set, the delegation from the Province of Canada was initially not an official part of the Conference. The issue of Maritime Union was deferred and the Canadians were formally allowed to join and address the Conference.\n\nNo minutes from the Charlottetown Conference survive, but we do know that George-Étienne Cartier and John A. Macdonald presented arguments in favour of a union of the three colonies; Alexander Tilloch Galt presented the Province of Canada’s proposals on the financial arrangements of such a union; and that George Brown presented a proposal for what form a united government might take. The Canadian delegation’s proposal for the governmental system involved:\n\nOther proposals attractive to the politicians from the Maritime colonies were:\n\nBy September 7, 1864, the delegates from Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island gave a positive answer to the Canadian delegation, expressing the view that the federation of all of the provinces was considered desirable if the terms of union could be made satisfactory and the question of Maritime Union was waived.\n\nAfter the Conference adjourned on September 9, there were further meetings between delegates held at Halifax, Saint John, and Fredericton. These meetings evinced enough interest that it was decided to hold a second Conference.\n\nOne of the most important purposes of the Charlottetown Conference was the introduction of Canadians to the leaders from the Maritime Provinces and vice versa. At this point there was no railway link from Quebec City to Halifax, and the people of each region had little to do with one another. D'Arcy McGee was one of the few Canadian delegates who had been to the Maritimes, when he had gone down earlier that summer with a trade mission of Canadian businessmen, journalists and politicians.\n\nGeorge Brown remarked in a letter to his wife Anne that at a party given by the premier of PEI, Colonel John Hamilton Gray, he met a woman who had never been off the island in her entire life. Nevertheless, he found Prince Edward Islanders to be \"amazingly civilized\".\n\nReaction to the Charlottetown Conference varied among the different newspapers. In the Maritimes there was concern that the smooth Canadians with their sparkling champagne and charming speeches were outsmarting the delegates of the smaller provinces. \"From all accounts it looks as if these [Canadian] gentlemen had it all their own way; ... and that, what with their arguments and what with their blandishments, (they gave a champagne lunch on board the \"Victoria\" where Mr. McGee's wit sparkled brightly as the wine), they carried the Lower Province delegates a little off their feet.\"\n\nAfter returning home from the Charlottetown Conference, John A. Macdonald asked Viscount Monck, the Governor General of the Province of Canada to invite delegates from the three Maritime provinces and Newfoundland to a conference with United Canada delegates. Monck obliged and the Conference went ahead at Quebec City in October 1864.\n\nThe Conference began on October 10, 1864, on the site of present-day Montmorency Park. The Conference elected Étienne-Paschal Taché as its chairman, but it was dominated by Macdonald. Despite differences in the positions of some of the delegates on some issues, the Quebec Conference, following so swiftly on the success of the Charlottetown Conference, was infused with a determinative sense of purpose and nationalism. For the Reformers of Canada West, led by George Brown, the end of what they perceived as French-Canadian interference in local affairs was in sight. For Maritimers such as Tupper of Nova Scotia or Tilley of New Brunswick, horizons were suddenly broadened to take in much larger possibilities for trade and growth.\n\nOn the issue of the Senate, the Maritime Provinces pressed for as much equality as possible. With the addition of Newfoundland to the Conference, the other three Maritime colonies did not wish to see the strength of their provinces in the upper chamber diluted by simply adding Newfoundland to the Atlantic category. It was the matter of the Senate that threatened to derail the entire proceedings. It was Macdonald who came up with the acceptable compromise of giving Newfoundland four senators of its own when it joined.\n\nThe delegates from the Maritimes also raised an issue with respect to the level of government—federal or provincial—that would be given the powers not otherwise specifically defined. Macdonald, who was aiming for the strongest central government possible, insisted that this was to be the central government, and in this he was supported by, among others, Tupper.\n\nAt the end of the Conference, it adopted the Seventy-two Resolutions which would form the basis of a scheduled future conference. The Conference adjourned on October 27.\n\nPrince Edward Island emerged disappointed from the Quebec Conference. It did not receive support for a guarantee of six members in the proposed House of Commons, and was denied an appropriation of $200,000 that it felt had been offered at Charlottetown to assist in buying out the holdings of absentee landlords.\n\n\"Never was there such an opportunity as now for the birth of a nation\" proclaimed a pamphlet written by S. E. Dawson and reprinted in a Quebec City newspaper during the Conference.\n\nAgain, reaction to the Quebec Conference varied depending on the political views of the critic.\n\nGeorge Brown was the first to carry the constitutional proposals to the British Government in London in December 1864, where it gave \"a most gracious answer to our constitutional scheme.\" He also met with William Gladstone, who was then Chancellor of the Exchequer and later prime minister, \"who agreed in almost everything.\" In April 1865, Brown, Macdonald, Cartier and Galt met with the Imperial Government where \"The project of a federal union of the colonies was highly approved of by the Imperial authorities.\"\n\nFollowing the Quebec Conference, the Province of Canada's legislature passed a bill approving the union. The union proved more controversial in the Maritime provinces, however, and it was not until 1866 that New Brunswick and Nova Scotia passed union resolutions, while Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland continued to opt against joining.\n\nIn December 1866, sixteen delegates from the Province of Canada, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia travelled to London, where the 4th Earl of Carnarvon presented each to Queen Victoria in private audience, as well as holding court for their wives and daughters. At meetings held at the Westminster Palace Hotel, the delegates reviewed and approved the 72 resolutions; although Charles Tupper had promised anti-union forces in Nova Scotia that he would push for amendments, he was unsuccessful in getting any passed. Now known as the \"London Resolutions\", the conference's decisions were forwarded to the Colonial Office.\n\nAfter breaking for Christmas, the delegates reconvened in January 1867 and began drafting the British North America Act. The 4th Earl of Carnarvon continued to have a central role in drafting the Act at Highclere Castle alongside the first Prime Minister of Canada John A. Macdonald, George-Étienne Cartier and Alexander Tilloch Galt, who signed the visitor book in 1866. After suggestions of 'Franklin' and 'Guelfenland', they agreed that the new country should be called \"Canada\", that Canada East should be renamed \"Quebec\" and that Canada West should be renamed \"Ontario\". There was, however, heated debate about how the new country should be designated. Ultimately, the delegates elected to call the new country the Dominion of Canada, after \"kingdom\" and \"confederation\", among other options, were rejected for various reasons. The term \"dominion\" was allegedly suggested by Sir Samuel Leonard Tilley.\n\nThe delegates had completed their draft of the British North America Act by February 1867. The Act was presented to Queen Victoria on February 11, 1867. The bill was introduced in the House of Lords the next day. The bill was quickly approved by the House of Lords, and then also quickly approved by the British House of Commons. (The Conservative Lord Derby was prime minister of the United Kingdom at the time.) The Act received royal assent on March 29, 1867, and set July 1, 1867, as the date for union.\n\nConfederation was accomplished when the Queen gave royal assent to the British North America Act (BNA Act) on March 29, 1867, followed by a royal proclamation stating: \"We do ordain, declare, and command that on and after the First day of July, One Thousand Eight Hundred and Sixty-seven, the Provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick, shall form and be One Dominion, under the name of Canada.\" That act, which united the Province of Canada with the colonies of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, came into effect on July 1 that year. The act replaced the Act of Union (1840) which had previously unified Upper Canada and Lower Canada into the united Province of Canada. Separate provinces were re-established under their current names of Ontario and Quebec. July 1 is now celebrated as a public holiday, Canada Day, the country's official National Day.\n\nThe form of the country's government was influenced by the American republic to the south. Noting the flaws perceived in the American system, the Fathers of Confederation opted to retain a monarchical form of government. John A. Macdonald, speaking in 1865 about the proposals for the upcoming confederation of Canada, said:\n\nThe form of government chosen is regarded as having created a federation that is a kingdom in its own right. John A. Macdonald had spoken of \"founding a great British monarchy\" and wanted the newly created country to be called the \"Kingdom of Canada\". Although it had its monarch in London, the Colonial Office opposed as \"premature\" and \"pretentious\" the term \"kingdom\", as it was felt it might antagonize the United States. The term \"dominion\" was chosen to indicate Canada's status as a self-governing polity of the British Empire, the first time it was used in reference to a country.\n\nWhile the BNA Act eventually resulted in Canada having more autonomy than it had before, it was far from full independence from the United Kingdom. According to the Supreme Court of Canada, Canadian \"sovereignty was acquired in the period between its separate signature of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919 and the Statute of Westminster, 1931\" long after Confederation in 1867. Defence of British North America became a Canadian responsibility. Foreign policy remained in British hands, the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council remained Canada's highest court of appeal, and the constitution could be amended only in Britain. Gradually, Canada gained more autonomy, and in 1931, obtained almost full autonomy within the British Commonwealth with the Statute of Westminster. Because the provinces of Canada were unable to agree on a constitutional amending formula, this power remained with the British Parliament. In 1982, the constitution was patriated when Elizabeth II gave her royal assent to the Canada Act 1982. The Constitution of Canada is made up of a number of codified acts and uncodified traditions; one of the principal documents is the Constitution Act, 1982, which renamed the BNA Act 1867 to Constitution Act, 1867.\n\nDominion elections were held in August and September to elect the first Parliament, and the four new provinces' governments recommended the 72 individuals (24 each for Quebec and Ontario, 12 each for New Brunswick and Nova Scotia) who would sit in the Senate.\n\nThe Anti-Confederation Party won 18 out of 19 federal Nova Scotia seats in September 1867, and in the Nova Scotia provincial election of 1868, 36 out of 38 seats in the legislature. For seven years, William Annand and Joseph Howe led the ultimately unsuccessful fight to convince British imperial authorities to release Nova Scotia from Confederation. The government was vocally against Confederation, contending that it was no more than the annexation of the province to the pre-existing province of Canada.\n\nPrior to the coming into effect of the Constitution Act, 1867 there had been some concern regarding a potential \"legislative vacuum\" that would occur over the 15-month period between the prorogation of the Province of Canada's final Parliament in August 1866 and the opening of the now Dominion of Canada's first Parliament in November 1867. To prevent this, the Constitution Act, 1867 provided for \"continuance of existing laws\" from the three colonies of Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick until new laws could be established in the Dominion. Thus, the \"Dominion's financial systems, structures and actors were able to operate under the provisions of the old Province of Canada Acts\" following confederation, and many institutions and organizations were continued and assumed \"the same responsibilities for the new federal government that it had held as a provincial organization\".\n\nThe original Fathers of Confederation are those delegates who attended any of the conferences held at Charlottetown and Quebec in 1864, or in London, United Kingdom, in 1866, leading to Confederation.\n\nThere were 36 original Fathers of Confederation. Hewitt Bernard, who was the recording secretary at the Charlottetown Conference, is considered by some to be a Father of Confederation. The later \"Fathers\" who brought the other provinces into Confederation after 1867 are also referred to as \"Fathers of Confederation\". In this way, Amor De Cosmos who was instrumental both in bringing democracy to British Columbia and in bringing his province into Confederation, is considered by many to be a Father of Confederation. As well, Joey Smallwood referred to himself as \"the Last Father of Confederation\", because he helped lead Newfoundland into Confederation in 1949.\n\nAfter the initial Act of Union in 1867, Manitoba was established by an Act of the Canadian Parliament on July 15, 1870, originally as an area of land much smaller than the current province. British Columbia joined Canada July 20, 1871, by an Imperial Order-in-Council enacted under the authority of the British North America Act. The Order-in-Council incorporated the Terms of Union negotiated by the governments of Canada and British Columbia, including a commitment by the federal government to build a railway connecting British Columbia to the railway system of Canada within 10 years of union. Prince Edward Island (P.E.I) joined July 1, 1873, also by an Imperial Order-in-Council. One of the Prince Edward Island Terms of Union was a guarantee by the federal government to operate a ferry link, a term which was deleted upon completion of the Confederation Bridge in 1997. Alberta and Saskatchewan were established September 1, 1905, by Acts of the Canadian Parliament. Newfoundland joined on March 31, 1949 by an Act of the Imperial Parliament, also with a ferry link guaranteed.\n\nThe Crown acquired Rupert's Land and the North-Western Territory from the Hudson's Bay Company in 1869 (though final payment to the Hudson's Bay Company did not occur until 1870), and then transferred jurisdiction to the Dominion on July 15, 1870, merging them and naming them North-West Territories. In 1880, the British assigned all North American Arctic islands to Canada, right up to Ellesmere Island. From this vast swath of territory were created three provinces (Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta) and two territories (Yukon Territory and North-West Territories, now Yukon and Northwest Territories), and two extensions each to Quebec, Ontario, and Manitoba. Later, the third territory of Nunavut was carved from the Northwest Territories on April 1, 1999.\n\nBelow is a list of Canadian provinces and territories in the order in which they entered Confederation; territories are italicized. At formal events, representatives of the provinces and territories take precedence according to this ordering, except that provinces always precede territories. For provinces that entered on the same date, the order of precedence is based on the provinces' populations at the time they entered Confederation.\n\nThe term Confederation has entered into Canadian parlance both as a metaphor for the country and for the historical events that created it. It has therefore become one of the most common names for Canadian landmarks. Examples include Mount Confederation, Confederation Square, Confederation Building, Confederation Park, Confederation Station, Confederation Heights, Confederation Bridge, and so on. This is similar to the American practices of naming things \"Union\" and likewise the Australians with \"Federation\".\n\nAlso see\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2956513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2956513", "title": "Catasto", "text": "Catasto\n\nCatasto is the Italian system of land registration. The register itself is maintained at a local level by the individual councils or \"Comuni\". The data held in the Catasto is the basis for the ICI council property tax (\"Imposta Comunale sugli Immobili\").\n\nThere are several companies which offer easy search facilities to draw data from the various Italian local councils. This information can be used to understand the property holdings of individuals or companies and the charges (\"e.g.\" mortgages) which might be held over their ownership.\n\nThe Florentine Catasto of 1427 provided an important source of raw historical data for historians of the Renaissance. The extensive surveys conducted by Florentine officials reveal changing forms of social organization over the period that records were collected. David Herlihy and Christiane Klapisch-Zuber's work on these records, \"Tuscans and Their Families\" is one of the first historical works to make use of computer-assisted statistical analysis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11372890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11372890", "title": "Chris Trotter", "text": "Chris Trotter\n\nChris Trotter (born c. 1956) is a left-leaning political commentator in New Zealand. He is the editor of the occasional \"Political Review\" magazine, and is a regular speaker, orator and singer at left-wing, union and socialist events.\n\nChris Trotter has worked for unions and was on the New Zealand council of the Labour Party. He writes the \"From the Left\" column in the \"Dominion Post\", and has also contributed to the \"Independent Financial Review\". He makes semi-frequent television appearances as a political commentator.\n\nHe has attracted criticism from other broad left critics who regard his knowledge of feminist, indigenous and LGBT politics to be insignificant, particularly insofar as their own distributive justice dimensions are concerned \n\nTrotter is the author of \"No Left Turn\", a political history of New Zealand. Novelist, poet and critic C K Stead described the book as \"a dashingly written and persuasive elegy for the Scandinavian-style socialist democracy New Zealand might have been, and at the same time a realistic (though at times appropriately angry) acknowledgement that, given the forces, internal and external, ranged against it, the chances of it happening, and lasting, were never very good.\"\n\nIn February 2008, he said that Helen Clark should stand down before the election and be replaced by Phil Goff, who he thought may have been Labour's only hope of regaining ground with struggling families. He has since recanted, arguing that Goff should have stood down in his turn before the New Zealand general election, 2011, arguing that David Cunliffe should replace him.\n\nIn July 2018, Trotter joined the Free Speech Coalition, a group of former politicians, lawyers, journalists, and academics that pursued legal action against the Mayor of Auckland Phil Goff for denying Auckland Council facilities to two Canadian alt-right activists Lauren Southern and Stefan Molyneux. Trotter justified his defense of the two alt-right activists' free speech by arguing that left-wing opponents of the tour lacked the courage to debate the alt-right.\n\n"}
{"id": "457907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=457907", "title": "Christian Heritage Party of Canada", "text": "Christian Heritage Party of Canada\n\nThe Christian Heritage Party of Canada (), also referred to as CHP Canada, is a minor social and fiscal conservative federal political party in Canada, founded in 1987. CHP advocates for Canada to be governed according to Biblical law. The party's stated principle is that \"the purpose of civil government is to ensure security, freedom, and justice for all its citizens from conception till natural death, by upholding just laws\". CHP states that, if the party forms government, it hopes to \"apply proven Judeo-Christian principles of justice and compassion to Canada's contemporary public policy needs\".\n\nEd Vanwoudenberg was elected its first leader at the 1987 founding convention in Hamilton, Ontario. Jim Hnatiuk led the party from 2008 to early 2014, and Rod Taylor is the leader as of November 7, 2014.\n\nThe party nominated candidates for the first time in the 1988 federal election, and ran numerous candidates in the 1993 and 1997 elections. It was unable to field 50 candidates in the 2000 election and was consequently de-registered by Elections Canada, the government elections agency. The party was re-registered in time for the 2004 election.\n\nMany of its founders had been members of the Social Credit movement.\n\nSome of the key goals and principles of the CHP are:\n\n\n\"The party did not have official status for the 2000 election, but 46 candidates were nominated, listed on the ballot without any affiliation information. These figures represent the 46 \"non-affiliated\" candidates known to be nominees of the CHP.\"\n\n\nThe Christian Heritage Party selects its leader at a leadership convention, with voting power to party members in attendance at the convention. If there is only one candidate (as in 2014), the person is not acclaimed, but rather is ratified as leader by a yes/no vote among the voting members. Leadership conventions have been held in 1987, 1991, 1994, 1995, 2008 and 2014. The national convention also elects national table officers (president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer); provincial presidents are elected in their respective provinces to represent those provinces on the national board.\n\nVanwoudenberg was head of the CHP from the party's founding convention in 1987 until 1991. From 1991 to 1994, he served as the Executive Director, and from 1994 to 1998, he served as the party's vice-president. A resident of Hope, British Columbia, he ran in the Canadian federal elections of 1988, 1993 and 2000.\n\nCavilla, of Lethbridge, Alberta, was leader of the CHP from the convention at Ottawa in October 1991 until March 1993. A difference of vision on leadership between Cavilla and the party board resulted in the transfer of leadership on an interim basis to Heather Stilwell.\n\nBlaquière, a Pentecostal pastor, was a candidate for the CHP in the Canadian federal election of 1993, and won the party leadership in March 1994 at a Vancouver convention, in a race with two other contenders. Blaquière stepped down at the next convention in November 1995 in London, Ontario.\n\nGray was the leader of the CHP from 1995 to 2008. Born and educated in British Columbia, Gray has worked in journalism, public relations, and the federal public service. He began his career at \"The Vancouver Sun\" newspaper, and has also worked at community newspapers in BC and in Suva, Fiji; and the \"BC Report\" magazine. He was a public information officer for a major public utility in BC, and for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.\n\nHe was a Trade and Commerce Officer attached to the Canadian Consulate in Cleveland, Ohio. He later managed store-front Federal government public information services in Winnipeg and Vancouver. He became Public Information Officer for one of BC's first community colleges, and later served 10 years in a similar capacity at Trinity Western University.\n\nIn the 1988 federal election, Gray ran in his first election under the Christian Heritage Party banner in the electoral district of Fraser Valley East. On election night, he placed fourth out of six candidates with over eight percent of the popular vote, finishing well behind Progressive Conservative incumbent Ross Belsher.\n\nGray ran for the CHP in every general election until stepping down as leader in 2008, with the exception of 1993. He has also contested four byelections, including one in Calgary Southwest against Canadian Alliance leader Stephen Harper. In a 1999 byelection, he finished one vote ahead of the Reform Party candidate in the Quebec riding of Hull—Aylmer.\n\nGray became the party leader in 1995. His leadership was confirmed at three subsequent CHP conventions. He stepped down in November 2008. Near the end of 2006, a human rights complaint was filed against Ron Gray alleging communication via the Internet messages likely to expose homosexuals to hatred or contempt. By October 24, 2008, the complaint had been dropped and the file closed by the Canadian Human Rights Commission.\n\nHnatiuk was elected leader of the CHP in November 2008. As a youth, he attended a boarding school run by Oblate priests. He joined the Canadian Forces and served with them for 25 years in the Combat Systems Engineering Department in the Canadian Forces attaining the rank of Chief Petty Officer 1st Class. He has been involved with various churches and is a deacon at Emmanuel Baptist Church.\n\nHnatiuk joined the Christian Heritage Party in 2002 and has run as a candidate for the party in Nova Scotia in the 2004, 2006 and 2008 federal elections.\n\nHe became deputy leader of the party in 2005 and was elected leader at the party's November 2008 convention in London, Ontario defeating Harold Ludwig and Rod Taylor on the first ballot of the party's leadership convention.\n\nHnatiuk was a candidate in the November 9, 2009 by-election in the riding of Cumberland—Colchester—Musquodoboit Valley, to replace independent Member of Parliament Bill Casey. He came in fifth, losing to Scott Armstrong of the Conservative Party of Canada.\n\nBecause of a difference in understanding on the leader's mandate to innovate in membership qualifications, and a motion by the national board to ask that the leader put promotion of his vision on hold until a full board meeting could discuss the vision, Hnatiuk submitted his resignation as leader effective February 1, 2014, though choosing to continue as a party member.\n\nIn his professional life, he operates the largest hunting, fishing and taxidermy business in Nova Scotia.\n\nDavid J. Reimer became a member of the CHP in 1987 while serving as a Pastor in Wetaskiwin, AB. He became active in his riding association and has served the party as candidate in each election since 1988. He served as candidate in the 2014 by-election in Macleod, Alberta.\n\nUntil early 2014, Reimer served as interim provincial president for Manitoba, and was appointed as interim national leader to succeed Hnatiuk until the fall 2014 national convention.\n\nRod Taylor was born in 1951 in Minneapolis, Minnesota. His family was involved in the US civil rights movement in the 1960s and various other social justice issues. He graduated from high school in California and moved with his parents and siblings to British Columbia (BC) in 1968.\n\nTaylor has worked maintaining track and roadbed for the Canadian National Railway, on farms, in the oil and gas fields in Alberta, and in sawmills and forestry work in BC. From 1987 until 2009, Taylor was involved in lumber grading and lumber quality control in Smithers, BC. In 2000 Taylor won the BC Interior Lumber Grading Championship.\n\nIn 2001, Taylor ran as a provincial candidate for the British Columbia Unity Party, and in 2004, 2006 and 2008 he represented the CHP in the federal riding of Skeena-Bulkley Valley.\n\nTaylor has served the CHP nationally as Interim President for CHP BC, BC Provincial President, Deputy Leader, Western Regional Development Director and National Development Director. He was named party leader at the 2014 convention in Hamilton, Ontario.\n\nThe British Columbia Heritage Party voted to become the BC provincial wing of CHP in 2011, and was renamed as the Christian Heritage Party of British Columbia (CHP-BC) after signing a formal affiliation agreement in 2012. Members of the CHP in Manitoba began efforts around the same time to form a branch in their province, but as of 2015 little progress has been made.\n\nWhile the parties were not formally connected, the membership of the deregistered provincial New Reform Party of Ontario (formerly the Family Coalition Party of Ontario) overlapped significantly with CHP as the parties shared many socially conservative policies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6945966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6945966", "title": "Civis Media Prize", "text": "Civis Media Prize\n\nThe Civis Media Prize for Integration honors people for radio and television broadcasting projects that promote peaceful coexistence within the European immigration community.\n\nPromoting understanding between peoples of different cultures and religious beliefs, revealing the complex causes of violence and demonstrating the successful mastering of conflict across national borders, can only succeed if the media report to the public about these complex topics realistically and informatively. Fighting racism and discrimination is not exclusively a national task.\n\nThe Civis media prize is awarded as a European television prize and as a German-language radio prize in EU and Switzerland. With the Young Civis media prize there is a sponsorship prize for young journalists as well as students and graduates of the film and media colleges, who are no older than 32 years of age. The CIVIS Online Media Prize will recognize journalistically-designed websites on the theme of integration and cultural diversity. The Civis prize is endowed with a total of 46,000 Euros. The entry is open to all programme contributions which satisfy the conditions of participation. It is presented on May every year and the prize-giving ceremony will be broadcast on radio and television.\n\nThe CIVIS Media Prize for integration and cultural diversity in Europe is organised annually in the European Union and Switzerland, by the CIVIS Media Foundation on behalf of the Association of Public Broadcasting Corporations in the Federal Republic of Germany (ARD), represented by Westdeutscher Rundfunk (WDR), together with the Freudenberg Foundation. Cooperation partners of the European prize are: Second German Television Channel (ZDF), Westdeutscher Rundfunk (WDR), Bavaria Film und Fernsehen GmbH, Deutsche Welle (DW), Deutschlandfunk (DLF), the German current affairs and documentary channel PHOENIX, Österreichischer Rundfunk (ORF), Association Relative à la Télévision Européenne (ARTE), the European Broadcasting Union (EBU), SRG SSR idée suisse, German Savings Banks Association (DSGV), 3sat, the European Parliament, the German Federal Government Commissioner for Migration, Refugees and Integration, European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights (FRA), RTV Slovenia (Radio Televizija Slovenija) and WDR mediagroup GmbH.\n\nThe organisation and conduct of the Civis media prize is handled by the non-profit-making Civis media foundation for integration and cultural diversity in Europe.\n\nThe object of the company is to sensitize radio and television to the theme of integration and cultural diversity and to promote innovative and professional handling of developments in the European immigrant community. The foundation aims to make a contribution to intercultural understanding and to European integration through the work of the media.\n\nBoard of Trustees\nof the CIVIS Media Foundation\nThe Board of Trustees assumes an important representative function for the organisation. The Board of Trustees acts in the civil society in order to effectively present the interests of the organisation to the public. The members of the Board of Trustees have a right to nominate programme contributions which are worthy of prizes in the European media prize. \nChairwoman is Monika Piel, Director-General of Westdeutscher Rundfunk (WDR)\n\nAdvisory board of the CIVIS Media Foundation\nThe Advisory Board consists of twelve persons, who are professionally involved in the media field and hold responsible positions there. Exceptions are possible. The task of the Advisory Board is to examine the projects of the foundation and to make recommendations to the Executive Director and the Partners’ Meeting. The members of the Advisory Board work on an honorary basis. \nChairwoman is Jona Teichmann, Head of Programme Department for Regional Radio Programmes (WDR)\nPartner's meeting\nof the CIVIS Media Foundation\nPartners of the CIVIS Media Foundation are Westdeutscher Rundfunk (WDR), on behalf of the ARD, and the Freudenberg foundation. The partners’ meeting sets the annual financial framework for the organization and decides on the programme and projects of the CIVIS Media Foundation. Chairwoman is Eva-Maria Michel, Legal advisor and Deputy Director-General of Westdeutscher Rundfunk (WDR)\n\nThe Civis Media Award was established in 1988 by the Federal Commissioner for Immigration Issues and ARD. It had the motto \"Living in Cultural Diversity – Against Racism and Discrimination\" until 2002.\n\nSince 2003, the prize has organised by the Media Foundation for Integration and Cultural Diversity in Europe. Since 2004, the foundation has organised a Young Civis Media Prize, for young journalists, students and graduates from film and media colleges.\n\nThe prize has been awarded every year since 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "254428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=254428", "title": "Commander-in-chief", "text": "Commander-in-chief\n\nA commander-in-chief, also sometimes called supreme commander, or chief commander, is the person or body that exercises supreme operational command and control over a nation's military forces.\nAs a technical term, it refers to military competencies that reside in a nation-state's executive leadership—a head of state or a head of government .\n\nOften, a given country's commander-in-chief (if held by an official) need not be or have been a commissioned officer or even a veteran. In these countries this follows the principle of civilian control of the military.\n\nThe formal role and title of a ruler commanding the armed forces derives from \"Imperator\" of the Roman Kingdom, Roman Republic and Roman Empire, who possessed \"imperium\" (command and other regal) powers. \n\nIn English use, the term first applied to King Charles I of England in 1639. It continued to be used during the English Civil War. A nation's head of state (monarchical or republican) usually holds the nominal position of commander-in-chief, even if effective executive power is held by a separate head of government. In a parliamentary system, the executive branch is ultimately dependent upon the will of the legislature; although the legislature does not issue orders directly to the armed forces and therefore does not control the military in any operational sense. Governors-general and colonial governors are also often appointed commander-in-chief of the military forces within their territory.\n\nA commander-in-chief is sometimes referred to as \"supreme commander\", which is sometimes used as a specific term. The term is also used for military officers who hold such power and authority, not always through dictatorship, and as a subordinate (usually) to a head of state (see Generalissimo). The term is also used for officers who hold authority over an individual military branch, special branch or within a theatre of operations.\n\nThis includes heads of states who:\n\nAccording to the Constitution of Afghanistan, The President of Afghanistan is the Commander-in-chief of Afghan Armed Forces.\n\nAccording to the Constitution of Albania, The President of the Republic of Albania is the Commander-in-chief of Albanian Armed Forces. The incumbent Commander-in-chief is President Ilir Meta.\n\nUnder part II, chapter III, article 99, subsections 12, 13, 14 and 15, the Constitution of Argentina states that the President of the Argentine Nation is the \"Commander-in-chief of all the armed forces of the Nation\". It also states that the President is entitled to provide military posts in the granting of the jobs or grades of senior officers of the armed forces, and by itself on the battlefield; runs with its organization and distribution according to needs of the Nation and declares war and orders reprisals with the consent and approval of the Argentine National Congress.\n\nThe Ministry of Defense is the government department that assists and serves the President in the management of the armed forces (Army, Navy and Air Force).\n\nUnder chapter II of section 68 titled \"Command of the naval and military forces\", the Constitution of Australia states that: \n\nIn practice, however, the Governor-General does not play an active part in the Australian Defence Force's command structure, and the democratically accountable Australian Cabinet (chaired by the Prime Minister) \"de facto\" controls the ADF. The Minister for Defence and several subordinate ministers exercise this control through the Australian Defence Organisation. Section 8 of the Defence Act 1903 states:\n\nThe Constitution () states, in Article 80, that the Federal President is the (nominal) Commander-in-Chief of the Austrian Armed Forces. However, it further provides that the President may only have the Armed Forces at his disposal to the extent provided in the Defence Act (); and that the supreme command over the Armed Forces is exercised by the minister of defence authorized to serve in this capacity by the Federal Government, i.e. the cabinet under the chairmanship of the Chancellor, as defined in Article 69.\n\nThe commander-in-chief is the president, although executive power and responsibility for national defense resides with the prime minister. The only exception was the first commander-in-chief, General M. A. G. Osmani, during Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971, who was commander of all Bangladesh Forces, reinstated to active duty by official BD government order, which after independence was gazetted in 1972. He retired on 7 April 1972 and relinquished all authority and duties to the President of Bangladesh.\n\nArticle 142 of the Brazilian Constitution of 1988 states that the Brazilian Armed Forces is under the supreme command of the President of the Republic.\n\nThe Sultan of Brunei is the Commander-in-Chief of the Royal Brunei Armed Forces.\n\nThe powers of command-in-chief over the Canadian Armed Forces are vested in the Canadian monarch, and are delegated to the Governor General of Canada, who also uses the title \"Commander-in-Chief\". In this capacity, the governor general is entitled to the uniform of a general/flag officer, with the crest of the office and special cuff braid serving as rank insignia.\n\nBy constitutional convention, the Crown's prerogative powers over the armed forces and constitutional powers as commander-in-chief are exercised on the advice of the prime minister and the rest of Cabinet, the governing ministry that commands the confidence of the House of Commons. According to the National Defence Act, the Minister of National Defence is responsible and accountable to parliament for all matters related to national defence and the Canadian Armed Forces. In theory, the governor general could also use his or her powers as commander-in-chief to stop any attempts to use the Canadian Forces unconstitutionally, though this has never occurred and would likely be highly controversial.\n\nArticle 93 of the Constitution of the People's Republic of China states the authority to direct the Central Military Commission of the Communist Party of China and the Central Military Commission of the People's Republic of China is vested with the Central Military Commission; composed of a Chairman, and numerous Vice-Chairmen and members. The same article also states that the Chairman of the Central Military Commission assumes overall responsibility for the work of the Central Military Commission, and that it is responsible to the National People's Congress and the Standing Committee.\n\nFurthermore, Article 80 gives the President of the People's Republic of China (in addition to ceremonial head of state duties) the power to proclaim martial law, proclaim a state of war, and to issue mobilisation orders upon the decision of National People's Congress and its Standing Committee.\n\nThe CMC Chairman and the President are distinctly separate state offices and they have not always been held by the same persons. However, beginning in 1993, during the tenure of Jiang Zemin as CMC Chairman and General Secretary of the Communist Party, it has been standard practice to have the President, the Chairman of the Central Military Commission, and the General Secretary of the Communist Party to be normally held by the same person; although the slight differences in the start and end of terms for those respective offices means that there is some overlap between an occupant and his predecessor.\n\nWhen Hong Kong was under British authority, the civilian Governor was \"ex officio\" Commander-in-Chief of the British Forces Overseas Hong Kong. After the territory's handover to the People's Republic of China in 1997, the commanders of the People's Liberation Army Hong Kong Garrison are PLA personnel from mainland China.\n\nAccording to the Croatian constitution, the President of Croatia is the Commander-in-Chief of Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. In peace, the commander-in-chief exercises his command through the Minister of Defense. In war and in cases where the Minister of Defense is not fulfilling orders, the commander-in-chief exercises his command directly through the chief of General Staff.\n\nAccording to the 1992 constitution, the President of the Czech Republic is the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces according to Article 63(1)(c), and appoints and promotes generals under Article 63(1)(f). The President needs the countersignature of the Prime Minister for decisions concerning the above-mentioned provisions as per Articles 63(3-4), or otherwise they are not valid. The Prime Minister may delegate to other ministers the right to countersign these decisions of the President. The political responsibility for the Armed Forces is borne by the Government, which in Article 67 is defined as the \"supreme body of executive power\". According to Articles 39 & 43, the Parliament must give consent to the dispatch of Czech military forces outside the territory of the Czech Republic.\n\nThe Ministry of Defence is the central authority of the state administration for the control of the Armed Forces. The actual day-to-day management is vested in the Chief of the General Staff, the Czech chief of defence equivalent.\n\nThe position of the Danish monarch as the head of the military is deeply rooted in tradition. While the 1953 constitution does not explicitly designate the monarch as commander-in-chief; it is implicit, given the general provision in article 12 and the more specific wording of article 19 (2): \"Except for purposes of defence against an armed attack upon the Realm or Danish forces, the King shall not use military force against any foreign state without the consent of the Folketing. Any measure which the King may take in pursuance of this provision shall forthwith be submitted to the Folketing\".\n\nHowever, when reading the Danish Constitution, it is important to bear in mind that the \"King\" in this context is understood by Danish jurists to be read as the \"Government\" (consisting of the Prime Minister and other ministers). This is a logical consequence of articles 12, 13 and 14, all of which in essence stipulates that the powers vested in the monarch can only be exercised through ministers, who are responsible for all acts. Thus, the Government, in effect, holds the supreme command authority implied in articles 12 and 19(2).\n\nThe Danish Defence Law () designates in article 9 the Minister of Defence as the supreme authority in Defence (). Under the Minister is the Chief of Defence, the senior-ranking professional military officer heading the Defence Command, who commands the Army, the Navy, the Air Force and other units not reporting directly to the Ministry of Defence.\nAccording to the Constitution, Article 128, Section II, Title IV, the President is the head of foreign policy, the civil administration and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, the National Police and all other state's security agencies.\n\nIn Egypt, the President of the Republic holds the ceremonial title of Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. A member of the government, usually defence minister, is commander-in-chief of the Egyptian Armed Forces, the incumbent being Sedki Sobhi. The president still remains the only individual capable of declaring war. Until the election of Mohamed Morsi in June 2012, prior Egyptian presidents had all been former military officers, and during the Yom Kippur War the president played a major role at all levels of the planning of the war, and was in a literal sense Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces giving direct orders to the commanders from the headquarters during the war as field marshal of the army, colonel general of the air force and air defence forces and admiral of the navy. Anwar Sadat often wore his military uniform, while former president Hosni Mubarak had abandoned this tradition.\n\nAccording to the Finnish constitution, the President of Finland is the commander-in-chief of all Finnish military forces. In practice, the everyday command and control is in the hands of Chief of Defence and the Commander of the Finnish Border Guard. The economic administration of the Finnish Defence Force is the responsibility of Ministry of Defence. The duty of the president is to decide upon\n\nSince the constitutional reform of 2000, the Minister of Defence has the right to be present when the president uses his command powers, unless the matter is of immediate concern. In questions of strategic importance, the Prime Minister has the same right.\n\nThe president commissions and promotes officers and decides on activating reservists for extraordinary service and on the mobilisation of the Defence Forces. If Parliament is not in session when a decision to mobilise is taken, it must be immediately convened. Declarations of a state of emergency (, literally, \"state of preparedness\") and state of war (, lit. \"state of defence\") are declared by a presidential decree, given after a motion by the government, which is then submitted to the Parliament for ratification.\n\nThe president has, in a state of emergency, the right to transfer the position of the commander-in-chief to another Finnish citizen.\n\nIn France, the President of the Republic is designated as \"Chef des Armées\" (literally \"Chief of the Armies\") under article 15 of the constitution, and is as such the supreme executive authority in military affairs. Article 16 provides the president with extensive emergency powers.\n\nHowever, owing to the nature of the semi-presidential system, the prime minister also has key constitutional powers under article 21: \"He shall be responsible for national defence\" and has \"power to make regulations and shall make appointments to civil and military posts\".\n\nSince the reign of Louis XIV, France has been strongly centralized. After crushing local nobles engaged in warlord-ism, the Kings of France retained all authority with the help of able yet discreet Prime ministers (Mazarin, Richelieu).\n\nThe 1789 Revolution transferred the supreme authority to the King (in the context of the short-lived constitutional Monarchy), then to the multi-member \"Comité de Salut Public\" during the \"Convention\", and later to the \"Directoire\", before being regained in the hands of Consul Napoléon Bonaparte, later Emperor Napoléon I, alone.\n\nThe \"Restoration\" restored the authority of the King, first in an absolute monarchy, then the constitutional July Monarchy of Louis Philippe, before it was overthrown in turn by the Second Republic and later the Second Empire of Napoleon III.\n\nThe following Third Republic was a parliamentary system, where the military authority was held by the President of the Council of Ministers. During World War I, the many visits to the trenches by the elderly statesman Georges Clemenceau impressed the soldiers and earned him the nickname \"Father of Victory\" ().\n\nDuring World War II, \"Maréchal\" Philippe Pétain assumed power and held the supreme authority in Vichy France, while Général Charles De Gaulle, acting on behalf of the previous regime, founded the Free French Forces, upon which he held supreme authority all through the war.\n\nThe following and short-lived Fourth Republic was a parliamentary system, which was replaced by the present Fifth Republic, a semi-presidential system.\n\nPrior 1992 Commander-in-chief of the Ghana Armed Forces (GAF) military rank was held by GAF military personnel until the ratification of the 1992 Constitution of Ghana ratified by Ghana Air Force (GHF) Flight Lieutenant Jerry Rawlings and in accordance to the Constitution of Ghana, The Head of State of Ghana and President of Ghana is the Commander-in-chief of GAF. The incumbent Commander-in-chief of GAF (Ghana Armed Forces) is Head of State of Ghana and President of Ghana John Dramani Mahama.\n\nAccording to the Guyanese constitution, the President is Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces. Unusually; there is a rank insignia for the position. \n\nSupreme command of the Indian Armed Forces is vested in the President of India, although effective executive power and responsibility for national defence resides with the Cabinet of India headed by the Prime Minister. This is discharged through the Ministry of Defence, headed by the Minister of Defence, which provides the policy framework and resources to the Armed Forces to discharge their responsibilities in the context of the defence of the country.\n\nOn 15 August 1947, each service was placed under its own commander-in-chief. In 1955, the three service chiefs were re-designated as the Chief of the Army Staff (rank of general), the Chief of the Naval Staff (rank of vice-admiral) and the Chief of the Air Staff (rank of air marshal) with the president as the supreme commander. The Chief of the Air Staff was raised to the rank of air chief marshal in 1965 and the Chief of the Naval Staff raised to the rank of admiral in 1968.\n\nAccording to Article 10 of the Constitution of Indonesia, the President of Indonesia holds the supreme command of the Indonesian National Armed Forces. Day-to-day operations of the Armed Forces is handled by the commander of the Armed Forces (, a 4-star officer whom can be General (Army/Marine), Admiral (Navy), or Air Chief Marshal (Air Force)).\n\nIndonesian Armed Forces has three service branches: Indonesian Army, Indonesian Navy (including Indonesian Marine Corps), and Indonesian Air Forces. Each service branch is headed by a Chief of Staff (also a 4-star officer) who has the task of developing soldier professionalism in each branch. However, the commanding authority is held by Commander of Indonesian National Armed Forces. Commanders have direct commanding authority to Main Combatants Command () from all service branches such as Army Special Forces Command, Army Strategic Reserve Command, Military Area Command, Fleet Command, Military Sea Traffic Command, National Air Defense Command and Air-Force Operational Command. The Commander of the Armed Forces is appointed by the president from active Chiefs of Staff (Army, Navy, or Air Force) and must get approval from the House of Representatives. Chief of Staff is also appointed by the president from senior military officers. The president as commander-in-chief also has authority in senior military officer mutation and promotion in tour of duty. Minister of Defense has responsibility to assist the president in defense issues and create policies about authorization use of military force, manage defense budget, etc. For authorization use of military forces or declaration of war, the president must get approval from House of Representatives. The Commander of Armed Forces gives recommendations to the Minister of Defense in creating national defense policies.\n\nBefore 1979, the Shah was the commander-in-chief in Iran. After the inception of the Islamic Republic, the President of Iran was initially appointed that task, with Abolhassan Bani Sadr being the first commander-in-chief. However, Abolhassan Bani Sadr was impeached on 22 June 1981. It was after this event that the role of commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran was given to the Supreme Leader of Iran.\n\nThe Supreme Commander of the Defence Forces is the President of Ireland, but in practice the Minister for Defence acts on the President's behalf and reports to the Government of Ireland. The Minister for Defence is advised by the Council of Defence on the business of the Department of Defence. The Defence Forces are organised under the Chief of Staff, a three star officer, and are organised into three service branches, the Army, Naval Service, and Air Corps.\n\nThe Constitution of Italy, in article 87, states that the President of the Republic:\n\"is the commander of the armed forces and chairman of the supreme defense council constituted by law; he declares war according to the decision of the parliament\".\n\nChapter 131 of the Constitution of Kenya identifies the President as the Commander-in-Chief of the Kenya Defence Forces and the chairperson of the National Security Council. The President appoints a chief of general staff, known as the \"Chief of the Kenya Defence Forces\", who acts as the principal military adviser to the President and the National Security Council. The Chief of the Kenya Defence Forces is drawn from one of the branches of the Armed Forces, the Kenya Army, the Kenya Navy or the Kenya Air Force.\n\nIn accordance with Article 41 of the Federal Constitution of Malaysia, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong is Supreme Commander of the Malaysian Armed Forces. As such, he is the highest-ranking officer in the military establishment, with the power to appoint the Chief of Staff (on the advice of the Armed Forces Council). He also appoints the service heads of each of the three branches of the military.\n\nThe Federal Constitution establishes that the office of Supreme Commander is attached to the person of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong as the Federation's head of state:\nThe Federal Parliament passed the Federal Armed Forces Act to consolidate in one law all regulations that govern the three services ( Army, Navy, and Air Force ). It establishes the function and duties of the Federal Head of State in the capacity as Supreme Commander.\n\nIn the Republic of Mauritius, the President of the Republic is the commander-in-chief, according to Article 28 of the Constitution.\n\nAfter independence in 1968, Mauritius continued to recognise the Queen of Mauritius, as represented by the Governor-General of Mauritius, as commander-in-chief. After the country was proclaimed a Commonwealth Republic in 1992, the new constitution stipulated that a President would assume the position of the head of state and commander-in-chief.\n\nIn accordance with the Nigerian Constitution, the President of Nigeria is the commander-in-chief of the Nigerian Armed Forces.\n\nHarald V, King of Norway, officially retains executive power. Article 25 of the constitution states: \"The King is commander-in-chief of the armed forces of the realm\"\n\nHowever, following the introduction of a parliamentary system of government, the duties of the Monarch have since become strictly representative and ceremonial, such as the formal appointment and dismissal of the Prime Minister and other ministers in the executive government. Accordingly, the Monarch is commander-in-chief of the Norwegian Armed Forces, and serves as chief diplomatic official abroad and as a symbol of unity.\n\nIn the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, before the 1973 Constitution, the head of the army, i.e., the Chief of the Army Staff, was referred as \"Commander-in-Chief\". The term was replaced by \"Chief of Army Staff\" on 20 March 1972 The Chief of Army Staff is a four-star general whose term is 3 years, but can be extended or renewed once. The Chief of Army Staff is chosen by the Prime Minister of Pakistan.\n\nThe President of the Philippines is both head of state and head of government, and is mandated by Article VII, Section 18 of the 1987 Constitution to be Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces.\n\nDuring the Fourth Republic, the 1973 Constitution introduced by Ferdinand Marcos created a parliamentary system that split the Executive into two, with the prime minister retaining the office of commander-in-chief and the president reduced to a mere figurehead. The wording of Article VII, Section 9 in the previous constitution enabled Marcos as commander-in-chief to declare Martial Law and suspend the writ of habeas corpus on 21 September 1972. Marcos also issued an edict, conferring the rank of five-star general in the military to the President, as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. He consequently sat as both president and prime minister until 1981, when martial law was lifted and Cesar Virata succeeded him to the latter office and amendments were made to the 1973 Constitution to turn it into a strong president semi-presidential system in which the office of commander-in-chief was officially returned to the President. Salvador Laurel was the country's last prime minister when the office was abolished after the 1986 People Power Revolution, and the position's powers were again merged with the Presidency.\n\nThe current Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Philippines is President Rodrigo Duterte, serving as the supreme commander of all Filipino military units in the Philippines.\n\nIn Poland, the President is Commander-in-Chief of the Polish Armed Forces. However, the art. 134 ust. 4 of the constitution states: \n\nDuring the interbellum period, the General Inspector of the Armed Forces was appointed the commander-in-chief for the time of war (Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces). However, after the war this function ceased to exist—thus it is likely that if Poland formally participates in a war, Chief of the General Staff of the Polish Armed Forces will be appointed Supreme Commander.\n\nThe President of the Portuguese Republic is the constitutional Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces (in Portuguese: \"Comandante Supremo das Forças Armadas\"). However, the operational command is delegated in the Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces.\n\nIn the Portuguese military parlance, the term \"Commander-in-Chief\" (in Portuguese: \"comandante-em-chefe\" or simply \"comandante-chefe\") refers to the unified military commander of all the land, naval and air forces in a theater of operations.\n\nAs stipulated in the Constitution of the Republic of China, the President is also the Commander-in-Chief of the ROC Armed Forces (including the Military Police), the Special Forces, and the National Space Organization.\n\nAccording to the Constitution of the Russian Federation, (Chapter 4, Article 87, Section 1) the President is the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. The President approves the military doctrine and appoints the defense minister and the chief and other members of the general staff.\n\nThe Russian Armed Forces is divided into three services: the Russian Ground Forces, the Russian Navy, and the Russian Air Force. In addition there are three independent \"arms of service\": Strategic Missile Troops, Russian Aerospace Defense Forces, and the Russian Airborne Troops. The Air Defence Troops, the former Soviet Air Defence Forces, have been subordinated into the Air Force since 1998.\n\nArticle 60 of the Basic Law of Saudi Arabia states: \"The King is the commander-in-chief of all the armed forces. He appoints officers and puts an end to their duties in accordance with the law.\"\n\nArticle 61 further states: \"The King declares a state of emergency, general mobilization and war, and the law defines the rules for this.\"\n\nLastly, Article 62 states: \"If there is a danger threatening the safety of the Kingdom or its territorial integrity, or the security of its people and its interests, or which impedes the functioning of the state institutions, the King may take urgent measures in order to deal with this danger And if the King considers that these measures should continue, he may then implement the necessary regulations to this end.\"\n\nIn accordance with the law, the President of Serbia is Commander-in-chief of Armed Forces and in command of the military. He appoints, promotes and recalls officers of the Army of Serbia.\n\nIn Slovenia, the commander-in-chief is formally the President of Slovenia, although he or she does not exercise this position in peacetime. Instead, this role is usually assumed by the Minister of Defence.\n\nIn accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Korea, the commander-in-chief is the President of South Korea.\n\nAs with most remaining European monarchies, the position of the Spanish monarch as the nominal head of the armed forces is deeply rooted in traditions going centuries back.\n\nThe Spanish Constitution of 1978 gives the King in article 62 (h): \n\nHowever, article 64 require that all official acts of the King must be countersigned, by the President of the Government or other competent minister, for them to become valid. Furthermore, article 97 stipulates that; And article 98 furthermore specifies the composition of the Government (which the King is not a member of). No provision in the constitution requires the King/Government to seek approval from the Cortes Generales before sending the armed forces abroad.\n\nSince 1984, the Chief of the Defence Staff is the professional head of the armed forces and, under the authority of the Minister of Defence, is responsible for military operations and military organisation.\n\nAs head of state, the President of Sri Lanka, is nominally the commander-in-chief of the armed forces. The National Security Council, chaired by the president is the authority charged with formulating and executing defence policy for the nation. The highest level of military headquarters is the Ministry of Defence, since 1978 except for a few rare occasions the president retained the portfolio defence, thus being the Minister of Defence. The ministry and the armed forces have been controlled by the during these periods by either a Minister of State, Deputy Minister for defence, and of recently the Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Defence. Prior to 1978 the prime minister held the portfolio of Minister of Defence and External Affairs, and was supported by a Parliamentary Secretary for Defence and External Affairs.\n\nResponsibility for the management of the forces is Ministry of Defence, while the planning and execution of combined operations is the responsibility of the Joint Operations Command (JOC). The JOC is headed by the Chief of the Defence Staff who is the most senior officer in the Armed Forces and is an appointment that can be held by an Air Chief Marshal, Admiral, or General. The three services have their own respective professional chiefs: the Commander of the Army, the Commander of the Navy and the Commander of the Air Force, who have much autonomy.\n\nIn Suriname, the constitution gives the president \"supreme authority over the armed forces and all of its members\".\nThe King is Commander in Chief of the Umbufto Swazi Defence Force\n\nThe \"Head of the Thai Armed Forces\" (; ) is a position vested in the Thai monarch, most recently held by King Bhumibol Adulyadej until his death in October 2016, who as sovereign and head of state is the commander-in-chief of the Royal Thai Armed Forces.\n\nPresident of the Republic of Turkey has the constitutional right to represent the Supreme Military Command of the Turkish Armed Forces, on behalf of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and to decide on the mobilization of the Turkish Armed Forces, to appoint the Chief of the General Staff, to call the National Security Council to meet, to preside over the National Security Council, to proclaim martial law or state of emergency, and to issue decrees having the force of law, upon a decision of the Council of Ministers meeting under his/her chairmanship. With all these issues above written in the Constitution of Turkey, the executive rights are given to the President of the Republic of Turkey to be represented as the commander-in-chief of the nation.\n\nThe British monarch is the \"Head of the Armed Forces\" and has also been described as \"commander in chief of the armed forces of the Crown\". Long-standing constitutional convention, however, has vested \"de facto\" executive authority, by the exercise of Royal Prerogative powers, in the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Defence. The Prime Minister (acting with the support of the Cabinet) makes the key decisions on the \"use\" of the armed forces. The Queen, however, remains the \"ultimate authority\" of the military, with officers and personnel swearing allegiance only to the monarch.\n\nAccording to Article II, Section 2, Clause I of the Constitution, the President of the United States is “Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several States, when called into the actual Service of the United States.”\nSince the National Security Act of 1947, this has been understood to mean all United States Armed Forces.\nU.S. ranks have their roots in British military traditions, with the President possessing ultimate authority, but no rank, maintaining a civilian status, other than the title of Commander in Chief.\nThe exact degree of authority that the Constitution grants to the President as Commander in Chief has been the subject of much debate throughout history, with Congress at various times granting the President wide authority and at others attempting to restrict that authority.\n\nThe amount of military detail handled personally by the President in wartime has varied dramatically. George Washington, the first U.S. president, firmly established military subordination under civilian authority. In 1794, Washington used his constitutional powers to assemble 12,000 militia to quell the Whiskey Rebellion—a conflict in western Pennsylvania involving armed farmers and distillers who refused to pay excise tax on spirits. According to historian Joseph Ellis, this was the \"first and only time a sitting American president led troops in the field\", though James Madison briefly took control of artillery units in defense of Washington D.C. during the War of 1812.\n\nAbraham Lincoln was deeply involved in overall strategy and in day-to-day operations during the American Civil War, 1861–1865; historians have given Lincoln high praise for his strategic sense and his ability to select and encourage commanders such as Ulysses S. Grant. On the other extreme, Woodrow Wilson paid very little attention to operational military details of World War I and had very little contact with the War Department or with General John J. Pershing, who had a high degree of autonomy as commander of the armies in France. As President in World War II, Franklin D. Roosevelt worked closely with his generals, and admirals, and assigned Admiral William D. Leahy as \"Chief of Staff to the Commander in Chief\". Harry S. Truman believed in a high amount of civilian leadership of the military, making many tactical and policy decisions based on the recommendations of his advisors—including the decision to use atomic weapons on Japan, to commit American forces in the Korean War, and to terminate Douglas MacArthur from his command. Lyndon B. Johnson kept a very tight personal control of operations during the Vietnam War, which some historians have sharply criticized.\n\nIn 1990, the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and the ensuing Gulf War in 1991, saw George H.W. Bush assemble and lead one of the largest military coalitions of nations in modern times. Confronting a major constitutional issue of murky legislation that left the wars in Korea and Vietnam without official declarations of war, Congress quickly authorized sweeping war-making powers for Bush.\n\nBefore 1947, the President was the only common superior of the Army (under the Secretary of War), the Navy and Marine Corps (under the Secretary of the Navy), and the Coast Guard (under the Secretary of the Treasury). The National Security Act of 1947, and the 1949 amendments to the same act, among other things, created the United States Air Force as an independent service separate from the Army, and organized Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps under a newly created Department of Defense, headed by, and subject to the \"authority, direction and control\" of, the Secretary of Defense (acivilian cabinet-level official appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate).\n\nThe Goldwater-Nichols Act in 1986 codified the default operational chain of command: running from the President to the Secretary of Defense, and from the Secretary of Defense to the combatant commander. While the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff outranks all other military officers, he does not have operational command authority over the Armed Forces. However, the chairman does assist the President and the Secretary of Defense in the exercise of their command functions.\n\nDuring the 20th century, certain area commanders came to be called \"Commander-in-chief\". As of 2011, there are nine combatant commanders: six have regional responsibilities, and three have functional responsibilities. Before 2002, the combatant commanders were referred to in daily use as \"Commanders-in-chief\" (for instance: \"Commander in chief, U.S. Central Command\"), even though the offices were in fact already designated as \"combatant commander\" (CCDR) in the law specifying the positions. On 24 October 2002, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld announced his decision that the use of \"Commander-in-chief\" would thereafter be reserved for the President only.\n\nIn U.S. states, the governor also serves as the commander-in-chief of the National Guard, State Militia, and State Defense Forces. In the Commonwealth of Kentucky, for example, KRS 37.180 states:\n\nSimilarly, Section 7 of Article 5 of the Constitution of the State of California states:\n\nAccording to the Venezuelan constitution, the President is Commander in chief of the Armed Forces. The office of the Venezuelan military supreme commander in chief has always been held by the President of Venezuela as per constitutional requirements. However, with a new law sanctioned in 2008, the \"Comandante en Jefe\" rank is not only a function attributed to the executive branch but a full military rank given to the president upon taking office. Upon assumption he receives a saber, epaulette, shoulder knot, shoulder board and sleeve insignia and full military uniform to be used in military events while performing the duties as president. The shoulder insignia mirrors Cuban practice but is derived from the German-styled officer rank insignia.\n\nThe commander-in-chief of the armed forces is the President of Vietnam, through his post as Chairman of National Defense and Security Council. Though this position is nominal and real power is assumed by the Central Military Commission of the Communist Party of Vietnam. The Secretary of Central Military Commission (usually the General Secretary of the Communist Party of Vietnam) is the de facto Commander.\n\nThe Minister of Defence oversees operations of the Ministry of Defence, and the Vietnam People's Army. He also oversees such agencies as the General Staff and the General Logistics Department. However, military policy is ultimately directed by the Central Military Commission of the ruling Communist Party of Vietnam.\n\nThe 1995 Constitution designates the Prime Minister of Ethiopia as \"Commander-in-Chief of the national armed forces\" in Article 74(1).\n\nUpon the re-militarization of West Germany in 1955, when it joined NATO, the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany was amended in 1956 to include constitutional provisions for the command of the armed forces.\nThe rationale for placing the command authority over the armed forces directly with the responsible minister in charge of the military establishment, and thus breaking with the longstanding German constitutional tradition in both earlier monarchical and republican systems of placing it with the head of state, was that in a democratic parliamentary system the command authority should directly reside where it would be exercised and where it is subject to the parliamentary control of the Bundestag at all times. By assigning it directly to the responsible minister, instead of with the Federal Chancellor, this also meant that military affairs is but one of the many integrated responsibilities of the government; in stark contrast of earlier times when the separate division of the military establishment from the civil administration allowed the former to act as a state within a state (in contrast to the Federal Republic, the Weimar Republic began with the Ebert–Groener pact, which kept the military establishment as an autonomous force outside the control of politics; the 1925 election of Paul von Hindenburg as \"Reichpräsident\", surrounded by his camarilla and the machinations of Kurt von Schleicher, did little to reverse the trend).\n\nThe legislature of the German Democratic Republic (GDR), the \"Volkskammer\", enacted on 13 February 1960 the \"Law on the Formation of the National Defense Council of the GDR\", which established a council consisting of a chairman and at least 12 members. This was later incorporated into the GDR Constitution in April 1968. The National Defense Council held the supreme command of the National People's Army (including the internal security forces), and the Council's chairman (usually the General Secretary of the ruling Socialist Unity Party) was considered the GDR's commander-in-chief.\n\nThe GDR joined with the Federal Republic of Germany on 3 October 1990, upon which the GDR's constitution and armed forces were abolished.\n\nDuring the Kingdom of Prussia, German Empire, Weimar Republic and the Nazi era, whoever was the head of state—the King of Prussia/German Emperor (under the Constitution of the Kingdom of Prussia/Constitution of the German Empire) to 1918, the Reichspräsident (under the Weimar Constitution) to 1934, and the Führer from 1934 to 1945—was the Head of the Armed Forces (: literally \"Supreme Commander\").\n\nBelow the level of the Head of State, each military branch () had its own head who reported directly to the Head of State and held the highest rank in his service; in the Reichsheer - Generalfeldmarschall, and in the Reichsmarine - Grossadmiral.\n\nAfter Chancellor Adolf Hitler assumed power as \"Führer\" (after the death of President Paul von Hindenburg), he would later grant his war minister, Generalfeldmarschall Werner von Blomberg, the title of Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces in 1935, when conscription was reintroduced. However, in 1938 due to the Blomberg–Fritsch Affair, Hitler withdrew the Commander-in-Chief title, abolished the war ministerial post and assumed personal command of the Armed Forces. The war ministerial post was de facto overtaken by the \"Oberkommando der Wehrmacht\", which was headed by Generalfeldmarschall Wilhelm Keitel until the German surrender.\n\nAccording to Article 45 of the Greek Constitution, the President is the Head of the Greek Armed Forces, but their administration is exercised by the Government. The Prime Minister, the Minister for National Defence and the Chief of the General Staff are the ones who command the Armed Forces.\n\nIn Israel, the applicable basic law states that the ultimate authority over the Israel Defense Forces rests with the Government of Israel (chaired by the Prime Minister) as a collective body. The authority of the Government is exercised by the Minister of Defense on behalf of the Government. However, the Commander-in-Chief of the IDF is the Chief of General Staff who, despite being subordinate to the Minister of Defense, holds the highest level of command within the military.\n\nIn Japan, prior to the Meiji Restoration the role of the commander-in-chief was vested in the \"shōgun\" (the most militarily powerful samurai \"daimyō\"). After the dissolution of the Tokugawa shogunate the role of the commander-in-chief, resided with the Emperor of Japan. The present-day constitutional role of the Emperor is that of a ceremonial figurehead without any military role.\n\nAfter Japan's move towards democracy, the position of Commander-in-Chief of the Japan Self-Defense Forces is held by the Prime Minister of Japan. Military authority runs from the Prime Minister to the cabinet-level Minister of Defense of the Japanese Ministry of Defense.\n\nThe Malta Armed Forces Act does not directly establish the President of Malta as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. However, Maltese law allows the President to raise by voluntary enlistment and maintain an armed force. Likewise, the law allows the President to issue orders in order to the administrate the armed forces.\n\nIt is important to note that the Armed Forces do not swear allegiance to the President of Malta but rather to the Republic of Malta. On this basis, there is no direct link between the head of state and the armed forces. For this reason, this link is mediated by the Minister responsible for defence.\n\nNonetheless, the Presidential Palaces are guarded by the Armed Forces as a symbolic gesture of social cohesion.\n\nSee also Tatmadaw\n\nThe Constitution of the Netherlands states, in article 97, that \"the Government shall have supreme authority over the armed forces\". Article 42 defines the Government as the Monarch and the ministers, and that only ministers are responsible for acts of government. Article 45 further defines the ministers as constituting the Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister, with \"authority to decide upon overall government policy\".\n\nBefore a constitution change took place in 1983, even though the equivalent section stated that: \"The King shall have supreme authority over the armed forces\"; that did not give the monarch any autonomous command authority.\n\nThe Minister of Defence has the primary ministerial responsibility for the armed forces, which are formally a part of the Ministry of Defence. The Chief of Defence is the highest ranked professional military officer, and serves as an intermediary between the Minister of Defence and the Armed Forces, and is responsible to the Minister for military-strategic planning, operations and deployment of the Armed Forces.\n\nThe Constitution of North Korea is ambiguous about which official really is the country's head of state.\n\nIn any case, the North Korean constitution, in article 102, is quite explicit regarding which official commands the armed forces:\n\nThe Chairman is formally elected by the Supreme People's Assembly (article 91:5) and serves for terms of office of five years (articles 101 & 90:1); but in practice, the office is hereditary within the Kim Dynasty, as the late Kim Jong-il was posthumously designated as \"Eternal Chairman of the National Defence Commission\", while his son, Kim Jong-un, was appointed as the \"First Chairman of the National Defence Commission\".\n\nIn Sweden, with the Ordinance of Alsnö in 1280, nobles were exempted from land taxation if they provided cavalrymen to the King's service. Following the Swedish War of Liberation (1521–53) from the Kalmar Union, a Guards Regiment was formed under the King and from there the modern Swedish Army has its roots. During the age of the Swedish Empire, several kings—Gustavus Adolphus, Charles X, Charles XI & Charles XII—personally led their forces into battle. Under the Instrument of Government of 1809, which was in force until the current Instrument of Government of 1974 went into force on 1 January 1975; the Monarch was in §§ 14-15 explicitly designated as the Commander-in-Chief of the Swedish Armed Forces ().\n\nAt present, the Government () as a collective body, chaired and formed by the Prime Minister of Sweden, holds the highest Executive Authority, subject to the will of the Riksdag; and is thus the present day closest equivalent of a command-in-chief, although not explicitly designated as such. The reason for this change was, apart from the fact that the King was since 1917 no longer expected to make political decisions without ministerial advice, that the new Instrument of Government was intended to be made as descriptive on the workings of the State as possible, and reflective on how decisions are actually made. Minister of Justice Lennart Geijer further remarked in the government bill that any continued pretensions of royal involvement in government decisions would be of a \"fictitious nature\" and \"highly unsatisfactory\".\n\nCertain Government decisions regarding the Armed Forces () may be delegated to the Minister for Defence, under the supervision of the Prime Minister and to the extent laid down in ordinances.\n\nTo add to some confusion to the above, the title of the agency head of the Swedish Armed Forces and highest ranked commissioned officer on active duty, is actually Supreme Commander of the Swedish Armed Forces ().\n\nHowever, the Monarch (as of present King Carl XVI Gustaf), is still a four-star general and admiral \"à la suite\" in the Swedish Army, Navy and Air Force and is by unwritten convention regarded as the foremost representative of the Swedish Armed Forces. The King has, as part of his court, a military staff. The military staff is headed by a senior officer (usually a general or admiral, retired from active service) and is composed of active duty military officers serving as aides to the King and his family.\n\nSupreme authority over the military belongs to the Federal Council, which is the Swiss collegial head of state. Nothwithstanding the previous sentence, under the Constitution, the Federal Council can only, in the operational sense, command a maximum of 4,000 soldiers, with a time limit of three weeks of mobilisation. For it to field more service personnel, the Federal Assembly must elect a General who is given four stars. Thus, the General is elected by the Federal Assembly to give him the same democratic legitimacy as the Federal Council.\n\nIn peacetime, the Armed Forces are led by the Chief of the Armed Forces (\"Chef der Armee\"), who reports to the head of the Federal Department of Defence, Civil Protection and Sports and to the Federal Council as a whole. The Chief of the Armed Forces has the rank of \"Korpskommandant\" or \"Commandant de corps\" (OF-8 in NATO equivalence).\n\nIn a time of declared war or national emergency, however, the Federal Assembly, assembled as the United Federal Assembly, specifically for the purpose of taking on the war-time responsibilities elect a General as commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces under Article 168 of the Constitution. Whilst the General acts as the highest military authority with a high degree of autonomy, he is still subordinate to the Federal Council (See Articles 58, 60, 174, 177, 180 & 185). The Federal Assembly retains the sole power to dismiss the General, but the General remains subordinate to the Federal Council by the Council's ability to demobilise and hence making the position of General redundant.\n\nFour generals were appointed in Swiss history, General Henri Dufour during the Swiss Civil War, General Hans Herzog during the Franco-Prussian War, General Ulrich Wille during the First World War, and General Henri Guisan during the Second World War (\"la Mob\", \"the Mobilisation\"). Although Switzerland remained neutral during the latter three conflicts, the threat of having its territory used as a battlefield by the much bigger war parties of Germany and France required mobilization of the army.\n\nWithin NATO and the European Union, the term Chief of Defence (CHOD) is usually used as a generic term for the highest-ranked office held by a professional military officer on active duty, irrespective of their actual title or powers.\n\nOther Articles of Interest\n"}
{"id": "1968600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1968600", "title": "Coronation crown", "text": "Coronation crown\n\nA coronation crown is a crown used by a monarch when being crowned. In some monarchies, monarchs have or had a number of crowns for different occasions, such as a coronation crown for the moment of coronation and a \"state crown\" for general usage in state ceremonial.\n\n"}
{"id": "4271994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4271994", "title": "Department of Agriculture and Food (Western Australia)", "text": "Department of Agriculture and Food (Western Australia)\n\nThe Department of Agriculture and Food doesn't exist anymore as it was amalgamated with the department of fisheries, regional development and development commissions (DAFWA) is a Western Australian government department responsible for regulating and advancing agricultural and food industries within the state. The Minister for Agriculture and Food, currently Alannah MacTiernan of the Labor Party, is responsible for the department.\n\nIn 2004 the department had operating costs of $215,000,000 approx with $120,000,000 provided directly by the state government. The balance was from federal government grants, public operating activities and user charges and fees.\n\nThis department is also responsible for quarantine control on all plants, soil and animal products brought into the state. The Agricultural Protection Board [needs updating] is also part of this and responsible for the eradication of pests in Western Australia; including the rainbow lorikeet (\"Trichoglossus moluccanus\"), skeleton weed (\"Chondrilla juncea\"), and Portuguese millipede (\"Ommatoiulus moreletii\").\n\nIn 1894, Premier John Forrest, established the Bureau of Agriculture under the chairmanship of Charles Harper. The members were A.R. Richardson, W. Paterson (the first manager of the Agricultural Bank), J.H.D. Amherst, F.H. Piesse and G.L. Throssell. Initially, the bureau was not placed under the supervision of a minister. This changed in April 1898 when the bureau became the Agricultural Advisory Board and a new Department of Agriculture was gazetted under the control of Throssell as Commissioner for Crown Lands.\n\nProfessor William Lowrie was appointed director in 1908. He resigned in 1911. James Mitchell was at this time Minister for Agriculture and he expanded the senior position to three commissioners: George Lowe Sutton, as Commissioner for the Wheat Belt, James M.B. Connor as Commissioner for the South-West; and James P. Moody as Commissioner for the Fruit Industries.\n\nThe department operates the following research stations throughout Western Australia:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47123569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47123569", "title": "Dia Chakravarty", "text": "Dia Chakravarty\n\nDia Sudeshna Chakravarty (; born 1984) is a Bangladeshi-born British political activist, former political director of the TaxPayers' Alliance, singer, and Brexit Edtior of \"The Daily Telegraph\".\n\nChakravarty was born in Bangladesh to parents of two different faiths. Her Muslim mother, Sultana Kamal, is a lawyer and human rights activist who runs a legal aid organisation in Bangladesh. Her Hindu father, Supriyo Chakravarty, is also a lawyer. Her parents both decided to keep their respective religions after marriage. She is her parents' only child. Her maternal grandmother is poet Sufia Kamal.\n\nBecause of Chakravarty's parents' and grandparents' activism and anti-fundamentalist stance, her family have been under threat on and off her whole life. She has grown up with threatening telephone calls and her home had been firebombed twice.\n\nChakravarty attended a school in Sylhet her parents set up which taught the British Council-regulated O-level curriculum and examination syllabus. The school took students up to the age of 14, after which her schooling was mostly tutorial-based. Later, she entered the mainstream education system to continue with her O-levels. She achieved seven O-levels.\n\nShe then got a partial scholarship to sixth-form college in Oxford, to board and sit her A-levels, after her parents remortgaged their family home, she left for the UK in 2001. Her lawyer mother, who had spent most of her life doing voluntary work until then, moved to Dhaka, to take up a full-time job. Chakravarty read Law at the University of Oxford and became a barrister in 2008.\n\nChakravarty started her career as a tax consultant in London before moving into communication and public affairs. From July 2012 to December 2013, she was a deputy director at The Freedom Association where she spent 16 months making the case for freedom of speech and expression, and freedom of the press. In January 2014, she was appointed political director of the TaxPayers' Alliance.\n\nChakravarty moved into communications and public affairs. She worked for Banking on Change, a global partnership between Barclays Bank and two international charities seeking to extend access to basic financial services through savings-led microfinance.\n\nIn August 2014, Chakravarty appeared on BBC Two's \"Newsnight\", discussing consultancy culture in the public sector. In November 2014 and March 2015, and October 2016, she appeared on BBC One's \"Question Time\". In January 2015, she contributed on BBC Radio 4's \"Any Questions?\".\n\nIn July 2017, Chakravarty, a prominent Leave campaigner during the UK EU membership Referendum campaign, was appointed Brexit Editor of \"The Daily Telegraph\".\n\nIn September 2017, Chakravarty appeared on \"Question Time\". In October, Chakravarty appeared on \"Newsnight\", discussing Brexit. In the same month, she was listed at Number 100 by commentator Iain Dale in his '100 Most Influential on the Right'.\n\nChakravarty took her first music lesson from Prateek Enda in Sylhet and had an early start in her musical training in Rabindranath Tagore songs. She specialises in Bengali music, however, since moving to the UK, she has added Hindi songs to her repertoire. She now takes lessons from London-based singer-master Anuradha Roma Choudhury.\n\nChakravarty performs in London and abroad. In August 2014, her debut album \"A Bloom in Vain and Other Songs\" was released.\n\nIn October 2007, Chakravarty married Duncan Hall. She met her husband while at school and decided to settle in England after completing her university and Bar examinations. Chakravarty is also involved with Udayan, a Bengali cultural group.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234527", "title": "Doroteo Vasconcelos", "text": "Doroteo Vasconcelos\n\nDoroteo Vasconcelos Vides y Ladrón de Guevara (1803–1883) was President of El Salvador 7 February 1848 - 1 February 1850 and 4 February 1850 – 1 March 1851. Vasconcelos was close friend of Honduran general Francisco Morazán. He tried to invade Guatemala and defeat general Rafael Carrera on 2 February 1851 but he was defeated. After defeat, he retired from public life.\n\nIn 1848, the liberals were able to force Rafael Carrera to leave office, after the country had been in turmoil for several months. Carrera resigned at his own free will and left for México. The new liberal regime passed a law where they emphatically ordered to execute Carrera if he dared to return to Guatemalan soil. On his absence, the liberal crillos from Quetzaltenango -led by general Agustín Guzmán who occupied the city after Corregidor general Mariano Paredes was called to Guatemala City to take over the Presidential office- declared that Los Altos was an independent state once again on 26 August 1848; that had the support of Vasconcelos' regime in El Salvador and the rebel guerrilla army of Vicente and Serapio Cruz who were declared enemies of general Carrera. The interim government was led by Guzmán himself and had Florencio Molina and priest Fernando Davila as his Cabinet members. On 5 September 1848, the criollos altenses chose a formal government led by Fernando Antonio Martínez.\n\nIn the meantime, Carrera decided to return to Guatemala and did so entering by Huehuetenango, where he met with the native leaders and told them that they must unite to prevail; the leaders agreed and slowly the segretated native communities started developing a new Indian identity under Carrera's leadership. In the meantime, on the oriental part of Guatemala, the Jalapa region became increasingly dangerous; former president Mariano Rivera Paz and rebel leader Vicente Cruz were both murdered there after trying to take over the Corregidor office in 1849.\n\nWhen Carrera arrived to Chiantla in Huehuetenango, he received two altenses emissaries who told him that their soldiers were not going to fight his forces because that would lead to a native revolt, much like the one that happened in 1840; their only request from Carrera was to keep the natives under control. However, the altenses did not comply with their offer, and led by Guzmán and his forces, the started chasing Carrera; the caudillo's\n\nOn his absence, the liberal crillos from Quetzaltenango -led by general Agustín Guzmán who occupied the city after Corregidor general Mariano Paredes was called to Guatemala City to take over the Presidential office- declared that Los Altos was an independent state once again on 26 August 1848; the new state had the support of Vasconcelos' regime in El Salvador and the rebel guerrilla army of Vicente and Serapio Cruz who were declared enemies of general Carrera. The interim government was led by Guzmán himself and had Florencio Molina and priest Fernando Davila as his Cabinet members. On 5 September 1848, the criollos altenses chose a formal government led by Fernando Antonio Martínez. In the meantime, Carrera decided to return to Guatemala and did so entering by Huehuetenango, where he met with the native leaders and told them that they had to remain united to prevail; the leaders agreed and slowly the segregated native communities started developing a new Indian identity under Carrera's leadership. In the meantime, on the eastern part of Guatemala, the Jalapa region became increasingly dangerous; former president Mariano Rivera Paz and rebel leader Vicente Cruz were both murdered there after trying to take over the Corregidor office in 1849.\n\nUpon learning that officer José Víctor Zavala had been appointed as Corregidor in Suchitepéquez, Carrera and his hundred jacalteco bodyguards crossed a dangerous jungle infested with jaguars to meet his former friend. When they met, Zavala not only did not capture him, but agreed to serve under his orders, thus sending a strong message to both liberal and conservatives in Guatemala City, that realized that they were forced to negotiate with Carrera, otherwise they were going to have to battle on two fronts -Quetzaltenango and Jalapa. Carrera went back to the Quetzaltenango area, while Zavala remained in Suchitepéquez as a tactical maneuver. Carrera received a visit from a Cabinet member of Paredes and told him that he had control of the native population and that he assured Paredes that he will keep them appeased. When the emissary returned to Guatemala City, he told the president everything Carrera said, and added that the native forces were formidable.\n\nAgustín Guzmán went to Antigua Guatemala to meet with another group of Paredes emissaries; they agreed that Los Altos would rejoin Guatemala, and that the latter would help Guzmán defeat his hated enemy and also build a port on the Pacific Ocean. Guzmán was sure of victory this time, but his plan evaporated when, in his absence, Carrera and his native allies had occupied Quetzaltenango; Carrera appointed Ignacio Yrigoyen as Corregidor and convinced him that he should work with the k'iche', mam, q'anjobal and mam leaders to keep the region under control. On his way out, Yrigoyen murmured to a friend: Now he is the King of the Indians, indeed!\n\nGuzmán then left for Jalapa, where he stroke a deal with the rebels, while Luis Batres Juarros convinced president Paredes to deal with Carrera; Guzmán could only get a temporary truce from the revolt leaders León Raymundo, Roberto Reyes and Agustín Pérez; however, the truce was short lived, as the rebels sacked Jalapa on June 3 and 4. Guzmán then left for El Salvador, where after a while he issued a note to the rest of liberal leaders in Central America in which he attacked the immorality and viciousness of the savage Rafael Carrera, who -according to Guzmán- had not governed Guatemala properly in the last nine years. In his note, Guzmán told that he had gone to El Salvador to retire from public life, but that he could not remain impassible watching how Guatemala was returning to Carrera's rule and saying that with the help of El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and the reborn Los Altos he was going to confront Carrera and return to a Federal Government; he practically assured that he was Morazán's successor trying to get rid of Carrera, but his note did not gather any support and Carrera returned to power in Guatemala.\n\nVasconcelos finished his term in office and handed power to Ramón Rodríguez, who after only a few days give the power back to Vasconcelos for another 2-year term. During his time in office, he ordered the remains of Morazán to be returned to El Salvador, where he buried his old leader with State honors. After the liberal defeat of Los Altos and the return of Carrera as Guatemala's strong man, Vasconcelos gave asylum to all the Guatemalan liberales that had been exiled from their country, which led to increased tension between El Salvador y Guatemala.\n\nAfter Rafael Carrera returned from exile in 1849, Vasconcelos granted asylum to the Guatemalan liberals, who harassed the Guatemalan government in several different forms: José Francisco Barrundia did it through a liberal newspaper that had been established with that specific goal; Vasconcelos gave support during a whole year to a rebel faction \"La Montaña\", in eastern Guatemala, providing and distributing money and weapons. By late 1850, Vasconcelos was getting impatient due to the slowness of the progress of the war with Guatemala and decided to plan an open attack. Under that circumstance, the Salvadorean head of state started a campaign against the conservative Guatemalan regime, inviting Honduras and Nicaragua to participate in the alliance; only the Honduran government led by Juan Lindo accepted.\n\nMeanwhile, in Guatemala, where the invasion plans were perfectly well-known, President Mariano Paredes started taking precautions to face the situation, while the Guatemalan Archbishop, Francisco de Paula García Peláez, ordered peace prayers in the archdiocese.\n\nOn 4 January 1851, Vasconcelos and Lindo met in Ocotepeque, Honduras, where they signed an alliance against Guatemala. The Salvadorean army had 4,000 men, properly trained and armed and supported by artillery; the Honduran army numbered 2,000 men. The coalition army was stationed in Metapán, El Salvador, due to its proximity with both the Guatemalan and Honduran borders.\n\nOn 28 January 1851, Vasconcelos sent a letter to the Guatemalan Ministry of Foreign Relations, in which he demanded that the Guatemalan president relinquish power, so that the alliance could designate a new head of state loyal to the liberals and that Rafael Carrera be exiled, escorted to any of the Guatemalan southern ports by a Salvadorean regiment. The Guatemalan government did not accept the terms and the Allied army entered Guatemalan territory at three different places. On 29 January, a 500-man contingent entered through Piñuelas, Agua Blanca and Jutiapa, led by General Vicente Baquero, but the majority of the invading force marched from Metapán. The Allied army was composed of 4,500 men led by Vasconcelos, as Commander in Chief. Other commanders were general José Santos Guardiola, general Ramón Belloso, general José Trinidad Cabañas, and general Gerardo Barrios. Guatemala was able to recruit 2,000 men, led by Lieutenant General Rafael Carrera as Commander in Chief and several colonels.\n\nCarrera's strategy was to feign a retreat, forcing the enemy forces to follow the \"retreating\" troops to a place he had previously chosen; on February 1, 1851, both armies were facing each other with only the San José river between them. Carrera had fortified the foothills of La Arada, its summit about above the level of the river. A meadow deep lay between the hill and the river, and boarding the meadow was a sugar cane plantation. Carrera divided his army in three sections: the left wing was led by Cerna and Solares; the right wing led by Bolaños. He personally led the central battalion, where he placed his artillery. Five hundred men stayed in Chiquimula to defend the city and to aid in a possible retreat, leaving only 1,500 Guatemalans against an enemy of 4,500.\n\nThe battle began at 8:30 AM, when Allied troops initiated an attack at three different points, with an intense fire opened by both armies. The first Allied attack was repelled by the defenders of the foothill; during the second attack, the Allied troops were able to take the first line of trenches. They were subsequently expelled. During the third attack, the Allied force advanced to a point where it was impossible to distinguish between Guatemalan and Allied troops. Then, the fight became a melee, while the Guatemalan artillery severely punished the invaders. At the height of the battle when the Guatemalans faced an uncertain fate, Carrera ordered that sugar cane plantation around the meadow to be set on fire. The invading army was now surrounded: to the front, they faced the furious Guatemalan fire, to the flanks, a huge fire and to the rear, the river, all of which made retreat very difficult. The central division of the Allied force panicked and started a disorderly retreat. Soon, all of the Allied troops started retreating.\n\nThe 500 men of the rearguard pursued what was left of the Allied army, which desperately fled for the borders of their respective countries. The final count of the Allied losses were 528 dead, 200 prisoners, 1,000 rifles, 13,000 rounds of ammunition, many pack animals and baggage, 11 drums and seven artillery pieces. Vasconcelos sought refuge in El Salvador, while two Generals mounted on the same horse were seen crossing the Honduran border. Carrera regrouped his army and crossed the Salvadorean border, occupying Santa Ana, before he received orders from the Guatemalan President, Mariano Paredes, to return to Guatemala, since the Allies were requesting a cease-fire and a peace treaty.\n\nAfter this terrible defeat, Vasconcelos retired from both the presidency and public life.\n"}
{"id": "9472711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9472711", "title": "Educating Rita (film)", "text": "Educating Rita (film)\n\nEducating Rita is a British 1983 drama/comedy film directed by Lewis Gilbert with a screenplay by Willy Russell based on his 1980 stage play. The film stars Michael Caine, Julie Walters, and Maureen Lipman. It won multiple major awards for best actor and best actress and was nominated for three Academy Awards.\n\nCaine and Walters both won BAFTA and Golden Globe awards for best actor and actress. The British Film Institute ranked \"Educating Rita\" the 84th greatest British film of the 20th century.\n\nA Liverpudlian working-class young woman – hairdresser – Rita (Julie Walters) wants to better herself by studying literature. Her assigned Open University professor, Frank Bryant (Michael Caine), however, has long ago openly taken to the bottle, and soon develops misgivings about Rita's ability to adapt to student culture. Bryant is a jaded university lecturer, who describes his occupational ability as \"appalling but good enough for his appalling students\". His passion for literature is reignited by Rita, whose technical ability for the subject is limited by her lack of education but whose enthusiasm Frank finds refreshing.\n\nTo illustrate the rhyming principle of assonance, the repetition of vowel sounds, Dr. Bryant gives as an example the words 'swans' and 'stones' from W B Yeats's \"The Wild Swans at Coole\". This is instead an example of consonance, the repetition of consonant sounds. However, in a scene just before Rita meets Dr. Bryant, some students mockingly observe, \"He doesn't even know what assonance means!\", confirming that it is Dr. Bryant's mistake, not the film's. In an ensuing discussion between Dr. Bryant and Rita, he asks her whether she understands assonance. Rita replies, \"Yeah, it means you've got the rhyme wrong.\"\n\nThe film focuses on Rita's unhappiness with her life in her blue-collar, working-class environment, including her husband who wants Rita to cease her educational pursuits and instead to have children. Rita struggles to fit into a new educated middle-class existence in academia, while seeking a \"better song to sing\". Rita's original preconceptions that the educated classes have better lives and are happier people are brought into question throughout the film through Frank's failing social life and alcoholism and her flatmate Trish's attempted suicide. Rita, her search, and her search's meaning for her, all evolve as she adapts to academia and grows as a person.\n\nLewis Gilbert says it was difficult to raise finance for the film. \"Columbia wanted me to cast Dolly Parton as Rita\". Julie Walters, in her feature film debut, reprised her role from the stage production.\n\nThe film was shot in Dublin. Trinity College, Dublin, is used as the setting for the university, and University College Dublin, in Belfield, Dublin, is used for Rita's summer school. The rooms used by Bryant as his office and tutorial room were those of the College Historical Society and the University Philosophical Society, respectively; and while the building was considerably refurnished, the production chose to leave portraits of Douglas Hyde and Isaac Butt and committee photographs in the former, and a bust of John Pentland Mahaffy in the latter. No. 8 Hogan Avenue in Dublin 2 near Grand Canal Dock was used for Rita's house in the film, and one in Burlington Road, Ballsbridge for Bryant's. The scene where Rita runs into her ex Denny and his new wife was filmed in the South Lotts area of Ringsend. The scene in France was filmed in Maynooth, County Kildare, and Pearse Station and Dublin Airport were also used. The scene in the pub was shot in The Stag's Head pub on Dame Court in Dublin. However, the pub which Rita enters is the Dame Tavern which is opposite The Stag's Head. Filming also took place in Stonybatter with Aughrim St Church being used for the wedding scene. Stanhope St school was used as a production base.\n\nThe American \"Variety\" magazine in December 1982 lauded Walters' interpretation of Rita as \"[w]itty, down-to-earth, kind and loaded with common sense.\" \"Rita,\" the review continues, \"is the antithesis of the humorless, stuffy and stagnated academic world she so longs to infiltrate. Julie Walters injects her with just the right mix of comedy and pathos.\"\n\nIan Nathan reviewing the film for Britain's \"Empire\" film magazine calls the film a \"gem,\" and gives it four out of five stars. He describes Walters's \"splendidly rich interpretation\" of Rita and characterises her \"reactions to the traditions of English lit[erature] [as] carry[ing] the caustic brilliance of true intelligence, a shattering of blithe pretension\". Of Walters and Caine, Nathan opines, \"they make a beautifully odd couple, in a love story at one remove\". This reviewer depicts the director's effort as \"effective, and finally optimistic,\" and observes about the film that the playwright's \"angry message that people are trapped by their environment not their abilities, is salved by the sweetness of [Frank's and Rita's] final parting.\" Nathan's \"verdict\" of the film is one of \"[c]harming, glittering characterisations that, though they don't run deep, nevertheless refresh.\"\n\nAmerican critic Janet Maslin called the film \"an awkward blend of intellectual pretension and cute obvious humour\" and \"the perfect play about literature for anyone who wouldn't dream of actually reading books\"; she wrote that \"the essentially two-character play has been opened up to the point that it includes a variety of settings and subordinate figures, but it never approaches anything lifelike\".\n\nChicago film critic Roger Ebert gave the film two stars out of four, calling the film a \"forced march through a formula relationship\"; he said Russell's screen adaptation \"added mistresses, colleagues, husbands, in-laws, students and a faculty committee, [that were] all unnecessary\" and said the playwright/screenwriter \"start[ed] with an idealistic, challenging idea, and then cynically tr[ied] to broaden its appeal\".\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 1999, the film was among the BFI Top 100 British films.\n\nIn 2007, while promoting the remake of \"Sleuth\", Caine called \"Educating Rita\" \"the last good picture [he] made before [he] mentally retired.\"\n\nThe film was released on DVD in the UK and the US. ITV Studios released the film onto Blu Ray in the UK (Region B) in 2008 as a 25th Anniversary edition, to mark 25 years since the film's release. This edition has long been unavailable/discontinued, but in May 2018, ITV Studios has once again released the film onto Blu ray in the UK.\n\nIn November 2002, the then-82-year-old director Lewis Gilbert went public with plans to remake his film \"with a black cast that could include Halle Berry and Denzel Washington\", with principal photography to commence in 2003. The project, however, never got off the ground.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19963054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19963054", "title": "Export Control Act", "text": "Export Control Act\n\nThe Export Control Act of 1940 was one in a series of legislative efforts by the United States government and initially the administration of President Franklin D. Roosevelt to accomplish two tasks: to avoid scarcity of critical commodities in a likely pre-war environment, and to limit the exportation of materiel to pre-World War II Imperial Japan. The act originated as a presidential proclamation by Roosevelt forbidding the exporting of aircraft parts, chemicals, and minerals without a license, and was intended to induce Japan to curtail its occupation of the Indo-Chinese coast.\n\nThe text of the Act stated that whenever the President deemed it \"necessary in the interest of national defense,\" he could prohibit or curtail the exportation of military equipment, munitions, tools and materials.\n\nAlthough controls were first authorized in 1940 in regard to munitions and similar materials essential to the defense effort, its coverage was extended in 1942 to all commodities, and broader geographic coverage, following America's entry into World War II. The law was extended, with modifications through 1948, and it was envisioned that remaining controls would soon disappear at the time of re-enactment in 1949. The scarcity of certain goods in the world markets however, made continuance of controls necessary in order to prevent a drain on such goods from plentiful American supplies with its consequential inflationary effects. National security and foreign policy concerns, especially following the outbreak of the Korean War, were new and compelling reasons for passing the Export Control Act of 1949, and in extending it until (at least) 1958. The law included both domestic policies aimed primarily at conditions within the United States, as well as controls directed at conditions outside the country, as an instrument of American foreign policy. This is exemplified by the restrictions on export of certain strategic or military items to the Soviet bloc or to other countries which it felt, if permitted, would be detrimental to the foreign policy program of the United States during the Cold War. The foreign policy motive became so strong that it brought legislation directing the President to enlist the cooperation of other nations in enacting controls on trade with the Soviet block to parallel those of the United States. The benefits of the various economic and military aid programs were to be withheld from non-cooperating nations, as in the Mutual Defense Assistance Control Act of 1951.\n\nThe Act was seen as a codified \"moral embargo\", in that it was an expression of moral outrage, in this instance, stemming from the Japanese bombing of civilians in mainland China in the late 1930s. In June 1938, the U.S. Secretary of State, Cordell Hull on June, 1938 condemned the slaughter and its \"material encouragement\". A month later, the Department of State notified aircraft manufacturers and exporters that the United States Government was \"strongly opposed\" to the sale of airplanes and related materiel to those nations using airplanes to attack civilian populations.\n\nIn 1939, the non-binding embargo was extended to materials essential to airplane manufacture and to plans, plants, and technical information for the production of high-quality aviation gasoline. These measures resulted in the suspension of the export to Japan of aircraft, aeronautical equipment, and other materials within the scope of the moral embargoes. As Japanese purchases of items other than aircraft and aeronautical equipment were minuscule, the moral embargo ultimately stopped the exportation of arms to Japan.\n\nFollowing the failure of diplomatic efforts to protect endangered American lives, rights and economic interests in China, America considered commercial retaliation against Japan. by Japanese authorities or Japanese-sponsored agents in China. The American government felt that its 1911 commercial treaty with Japan was not affording an appropriate level of protection to U.S. commerce in areas within or occupied by Japan. Simultaneously, Japan's position under the treaty as a most favoured nation legally prevented the adoption of retaliatory measures against Japanese commerce. When the United States gave six-month notice of its withdrawal from the treaty in July, 1939, it removed the primary legal obstacle for embargo.\n\nThe embargo, which halted the shipment of material such as airplanes, parts, machine tools, and aviation gasoline, was designed to be an unfriendly act, but expanding it to include oil was specifically avoided. Japan was dependent on U.S. oil, and it was thought at the time that such would be a provocative step.\n\nThe Act was expanded in September of that year to include iron and steel scrap, an act that Japanese Ambassador Kensuke Horinouchi warned Secretary Hull on October 8, 1940, might be considered an \"unfriendly act\".\n\nControls were first authorized in 1940 in regard to munitions and similar materials essential to the defense effort, and extended in 1942 to all commodities. Always intended to be only temporary, the 1940 act was successfully extended in 1944, 1945, 1946 and 1947.\n\nThe United States was not alone in its concern. Great Britain, which maintained colonies in the Far East also feared an aggressive Japan. Immediately following the enactment of the Act, the British ambassador would be asked by Japan to close the Burma Road, a key supply route of arms for China. Britain initially refused the request, but for a short period of time closed the road. The British and the Dutch followed suit in embargoing trade to Japan from their colonies in southeast Asia.\n\nThe ending of the commercial trade treaties further eroded the possibilities for dialogue between the two nations. Noted political economist Robert Higgs points out:\n\nRobert Stinnett notes in his book, \"Day Of Deceit: The Truth About FDR and Pearl Harbor\", that America had broken the Japanese diplomatic code and knew that due to the pressure exerted by the Export Control Act, war was quickly becoming an inevitable outcome. He points to a deciphered communiqué between Foreign Minister Teijiro Toyoda and Ambassador Kichisaburō Nomura on July 31: \"Commercial and economic relations between Japan and third countries, led by England and the United States, are gradually becoming so horribly strained that we cannot endure it much longer. Consequently, our Empire, to save its very life, must take measures to secure the raw materials of the South Seas.\"\n\nAfter World War II, the Export Control Act was expanded to prevent the diversion of advanced technology to the Soviet bloc and China and, in later years, to alter the behavior of foreign countries. Scarcity of certain goods in the world markets made continuance of controls necessary in order to prevent a drain on such goods from plentiful American supplies, with its consequential inflationary influence. It was envisioned that remaining controls would soon disappear at the time of re-enactment in 1949, but national security and foreign policy, especially following the outbreak of the Korean War, were new and compelling reasons for extending the Export Control Act of 1949 in 1951, 1953, 1956 and again in 1958.\n\nThe Export Control Act of 1949 is an example of the type of legislation that it renders, subject to the regulations promulgated under it, all persons wherever situated. Under its provisions exports of scarce materials are controlled both from an economic standpoint—short supply and consequent inflationary effect on foreign demand; and the security standpoint—autarchy and self-sufficiency in strategic resources not available in sufficiently large quantities. These are both domestic policies aimed primarily at conditions within the United States, but controls are also directed at conditions outside the country as an instrument of foreign policy. This is exemplified by the restrictions on export of certain strategic or military items to the Soviet bloc or to other countries which it felt, if permitted, would be detrimental to the foreign policy program of the United States. This latter motive became so strong that it brought legislation directing the President to enlist the cooperation of other nations in enacting controls on trade with the Soviet block to parallel those of the United States. The benefits of the various economic and military aid programs were to be withheld from non-cooperating nations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6903161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6903161", "title": "Francophone Association of Municipalities of Ontario", "text": "Francophone Association of Municipalities of Ontario\n\nThe Francophone Association of Municipalities of Ontario (or AFMO, from its French name, Association française des municipalités d'Ontario) is a Canadian political organization of municipalities in the province of Ontario which have significant Franco-Ontarian communities. The organization oversees the maintenance and development of municipal government services in French, and works with other levels of government, as well as organizations in other Canadian provinces, on issues unique to francophone and bilingual communities.\n\nIn addition to the organization's 40 member municipalities, a number of other non-municipal organizations and individuals have associate member status, including one municipal government in Quebec.\n\nAlfred and Plantagenet - Blind River - Casselman - Champlain - Clarence-Rockland - Cochrane - Cornwall - Dubreuilville - Earlton - East Hawkesbury - Elliot Lake - Fauquier-Strickland - French River - Greater Sudbury - Greenstone - Hawkesbury - Hearst - Kapuskasing - Kirkland Lake - Lakeshore - Larder Lake - Mattawa - Mattice-Val Côté - McGarry - Moonbeam - The Nation - Opasatika - Ottawa - Prescott and Russell United Counties - Russell Township - St. Charles - Smooth Rock Falls - Temiskaming Shores - Thunder Bay - Timmins - Toronto - Val Rita-Harty - Welland - West Nipissing - Windsor\n\nThe district social services boards of Algoma, Cochrane, Timiskaming and Sudbury-Manitoulin also have municipal member status.\n\nThe municipal government of Rouyn-Noranda, Quebec is also a member of the organization, but has associate member status since it is outside of Ontario.\n\nACFO - Association of Municipalities of Ontario - Business Development Bank of Canada - La Cité collégiale - Collège Boréal - Katimavik - Montfort Hospital - Northern College - Ontario Chamber of Commerce - Ontario Provincial Police - Marie-Paule Poulin - TFO\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27192366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27192366", "title": "Global Governance: A Review of Multilateralism and International Organizations", "text": "Global Governance: A Review of Multilateralism and International Organizations\n\nGlobal Governance: A Review of Multilateralism and International Organizations is an academic quarterly journal published by Lynne Rienner Publishers. It is published in association with the Academic Council of the United Nations System (ACUNS). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2014 impact factor of 1.016, ranking it 28th out of 85 journals in the category \"International Relations\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13981415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13981415", "title": "High policing", "text": "High policing\n\nHigh policing is a form of intelligence-led policing that serves to protect the national government or a conglomerate of national governments from internal threats; that is, any policing operations integrated into domestic intelligence gathering, national security, or international security operations for the purpose of protecting government.\n\nThe term \"high policing\" was introduced into English language police studies by Canadian criminologist Jean-Paul Brodeur in a 1983 article entitled \"High Policing and Low Policing: Remarks about the Policing of Political Activities\" and derives from the French \"haute police\", the political police force established in France under Louis XIV.\n\nThe term \"high policing\" refers to the fact that such policing benefits the \"higher\" interests of the government rather than individual citizens or the mass population. It also refers to the fact that high-policing organizations are endowed with authority and legal powers superior to that of other types of police organizations.\n\nThere is no conventional designation for this category of policing in liberal democracies, however, and it should not be conflated with secret police, although secret police organizations do use high policing methods. Calling it \"secret\" or \"political\" policing is too vague since all police work is somewhat both secret (police generally do not reveal their methods until a case is completed) and political (police enforce laws determined by the political system in power).\n\nThe primary tool of high policing is intelligence, which is derived from both human (\"Humint\") and technological sources. The former includes the use of secret informants to gather information on the activities of citizens, while the latter includes electronic surveillance and eavesdropping, such as closed-circuit camera monitoring, telephone tapping, and Internet tapping.\n\nHigh policing in western democratic countries is performed by both national police forces and specialized intelligence agencies, such as the FBI and the Secret Service in the United States, MI5 in the United Kingdom, the Special Detective Unit and Directorate of Intelligence in Ireland, the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, the Canadian Security Intelligence Service, and the New Zealand Security Intelligence Service.\n\nThese organizations usually confront domestic or internal threats to national security, whereas the military or military intelligence agencies generally handle foreign or external threats. However, this distinction can become blurred, especially in cases involving terrorism.\n\nHigh policing has an extremely high potential for abuse. There is a tendency, even in democratic countries, for high policing organizations to abuse their powers or even to operate outside the law because many organizations involved in high policing are granted extensive legal powers, including immunity from prosecution for acts that are criminal under normal circumstances. In some countries, for example, high-policing organizations regularly engage in actions of dubious legality, such as arbitrarily arresting and detaining people without charge, without legal representation, and ; some high-policing forces also engage in torture. In the worst cases, high policing becomes a substitute for the whole criminal justice system: suspects are arrested, tried, convicted, and sentenced entirely by a national security agency, usually very expeditiously and in complete secrecy, as is the case in police states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1553445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1553445", "title": "Inner Mongolian People's Party", "text": "Inner Mongolian People's Party\n\nThe Inner Mongolian People's Party, or IMPP (; , or 内人党, pinyin: \"nèiréndǎng\"), is an Inner Mongolian secessionist movement. The party was started in 1997 in Princeton, New Jersey. Citing the abuses of the Chinese government against Mongols during the Cultural Revolution, the goal of the party is to establish an independent state of Inner Mongolia; the potential for unification with the existent nation of Mongolia is beyond the current scope of party goals.\n\nThe Inner Mongolian People's Party was established on March 23, 1997 in Princeton, New Jersey with the goal of creating an independent state of Inner Mongolia. Another reason for the creation of the IMPP is that some of the Inner Mongolian people still have many unaddressed grievances dating back to the atrocities committed during Cultural Revolution. They believe that the Chinese government has not been held accountable or acknowledged their wrongdoings. The re-unification of Inner Mongolia and Mongolia is not currently within the “scope” of the IMPP as their current primary focus is on attaining independence for Inner Mongolia.\n\nThe IMPP has a Chairman and Vice Chairman who are directly elected. The Secretary General is proposed by the Chairman and approved by the Standing Committee, who is elected by Congress Representatives. The Chairman, Vice Chairman and Secretary General all are automatically Committee members. The IMPP has branches in a few countries that are set up by the Chairman and Vice Chairman. Additionally, there is an advisory board that is made up of non-IMPP members.\n\nIn March 1997, more than fifty IMPP members from Mongolia, Germany, Japan, Canada and the United States attended the first Congress of the Inner Mongolian People’s Party, which meets every four years, and acts as a decision making body. Xi Haiming was elected as Chairman, Bache was elected Vice Chairman, and Oyunbilig was elected as General Secretary. Additionally, at the Congressional meeting the Constitution was passed, membership criteria agreed upon, flag design finalized and, an “Open Letter to the People of Inner Mongolia” was issued and distributed.\nThe party’s headquarters are in the United States due to the contentious relationship with the People’s Republic of China. Due to sensitivity issues and to protect IMPP members, there is limited information available to the public concerning party membership and the identities of their members.\n\nXi Haiming, (Mongolian: Temtsiltu Shobtsood) was born in 1957 in Inner Mongolia. In the mid 1970s, he was actively involved in Inner Mongolian efforts to hold the Chinese government accountable to punish the people involved in the “cleansing campaign” during the Cultural Revolution. In 1981, the Chinese government implemented a policy to resettle millions of Chinese people in Inner Mongolia. Xi, as a student at the University of Inner Mongolia, became an influential student leader fighting to have the Chinese government reverse the policy and founded the Inner Mongolian League for the Defense of Human Rights. Due to his activities, the Chinese authorities put him under surveillance. In 1991, many of his friends were arrested causing him to flee to Mongolia. In 1993, he was granted political asylum in Germany and currently lives there with his wife and daughter.\n\nBache, born in 1955 in Xinjiang, used to be a member of the Communist Party of China. In 1990, he went abroad on official duty and did not return. Presently, he is a visiting scholar with the East Asian Institute at Columbia University.\nTo read his publication regarding the “cleansing of Inner Mongolians during the Cultural Revolution,” see: .\n\nOyunbilig, born in 1968 in Inner Mongolia, graduated from Beijing University in 1990 and worked for the Chinese Aerospace Department and as a business representative to Mongolia. He was actively involved in the 1989 Tiananmen Square Student Movement in Beijing. In 1995, he was granted political asylum in the U.S. and is currently living in Maryland.\n\nThe only criterion for membership is that the individual accept the Constitution and is willing to actively participate in all events. According to the Constitution, members are free to withdraw their membership should they wish to do so.\n\nThe Constitution, passed at the first Congress, states the party’s main goals as “to uphold the principles of democracy and peace in fighting to end the Chinese Communist Party's colonial rule in Inner Mongolia” and the “ultimate goal is to achieve the independence of Inner Mongolia.” \n\nThe IMPP flag, as stipulated by their Constitution, has a blue background with images of a red fire (top), a golden sun (middle), and a white moon (bottom). The blue background signifies the \"Eternal Blue Heaven” (Mongolian: Monkh Khokh Tengger). The Mongols believe the spirit of the “Eternal Blue Heaven” is in all objects in the universe, especially in fire, sun and moon, which is why these three elements are represented on the flag. These same images can be found on the national flag of Mongolia.\n\nInner Mongolia is located between the Republic of Mongolia and the People's Republic of China. China was under Mongol rule when Genghis Khan toppled the Song Dynasty (960-1279) and Kublai Khanm proclaimed the Mongolian Yuan State (1271–1368). After the fall of the Yuan Dynasty, China was returned to Han Chinese control and stayed that way through the Ming (1368–1644) Dynasty until the Qing (1644–1911) Dynasty when China was invaded and ruled by the Manchu people.\n\nDuring the Qing Dynasty and the Republican period (1911–1949), Inner Mongolia was heavily populated with Han settlers. The Nationalists, who ruled during the Republican period, banned the use of the Mongolian language and were said to be more ruthless than the Japanese who later occupied Inner Mongolia. In the 1920-1940’s there were many political movements to reunite Inner Mongolia with the Mongolian People’s Republic (MPR) (that was established due to Soviet sponsorship).\n\nDuring WWII, the Soviet-Mongolian joint army entered Inner Mongolia to fight the Japanese. The Inner Mongolians gave allegiance to the Communists to fight the Japanese in hopes of attaining their independence after the war. However, this was not the case. On May 1, 1947 the Inner Mongolian Autonomous Region (IMAR) (Mongolian: Öbür mongγol-un öbertegen zasaqu orun, Chinese: 内蒙古自治区， pinyin: Nèi Měnggǔ Zìzhìqū) was established. IMAR also had close ties with the USSR through the Mongolian People’s Republic. The Inner Mongolians hoped that Communist Rule would be better than the previous Nationalist rulers.\n\nUlanfu was appointed by the Communist Party to rule Inner Mongolia. As Ulanfu was of Mongolian ethnicity, it was an improvement for the Inner Mongolia’s as even though they did not have independence, they were at least being ruled by an ethnic Mongolian. \nUlanfu was an early Communist activist, studied in the USSR and joined the Red Army in Yenan. Mao Zedong, at first, trusted and supported him.\n\nFor the next two decades, Ulanfu worked to balance the needs of the Inner Mongolian people and the demands of the Communist Party. In the 1950s, Ulanfu’s balancing act became more difficult with the Communist Party’s land, social and political reforms aimed to tie Inner Mongolia closer to China. Ulanfu struggled to preserve Inner Mongolian interests as well as the Central Government’s as tensions increased. His efforts to adapt the reforms to the needs of the local population lead to his downfall and made him the target of Maoists.\n\nIn the 1960s, as the Cultural Revolution was coming into fruition, China and the USSR cut ties. Anyone with connections to the USSR was seen as a potential political enemy. In 1966, Ulanfu due to his previous close connection to the USSR, was to become one of the most senior victims of the Cultural Revolution when he was denounced and dismissed for alleged anti-party activities. He disappeared until after Mao’s death when he was appointed Vice Premier in a wave of rehabilitations of party officials who fell victim to the witch hunts during the Cultural Revolution.\n\nDuring the Chinese Cultural Revolution (CR) (1966–1976), Chairman Mao Zedong in his quest to reassert his own power, Socialism, and rid Chinese society of traditional, capitalist and cultural elements, went after every person that he deemed a capitalist or disloyal to the Communist Party. Many minority groups including the Inner Mongolians, Tibetans and Uyghurs (people from Xinjiang) were targeted. \nInner Mongolia, although far from Beijing was not unaffected by the CR. The treatment of the Inner Mongolians from 1967-1969 was especially brutal resulting in 22,000 known deaths and 300,000 known injuries.\n\nAfter Ulanfu was ousted, chaos ensued with multiple clashes between students and the army. Zhou Enlai attempted to deal with what was being called the “IMAR problem” and chaired meetings between the local groups and central leaders trying to ease the situation. The result was that a senior Han Chinese General, Teng Haiqing, was put in place in April 1967.\n\nUnder General Teng’s leadership, the already tense situation erupted. The Mongolian language was banned from publications and an office, run by a Mongolian, Ulanbaagen, was set up to, “root out the IMPP.” Ulanbaagen had to produce a list of people under suspicion.\nIn 1969, Beijing acknowledged that the situation in Inner Mongolia needed to be controlled. General Teng was reprimanded and forced to apologize as to not let the government lose face.\n\nAfter the Cultural Revolution came to an end, the episode in Inner Mongolia was blamed on the Gang of Four and the Lin Biao Clique. \nThe Cultural Revolution affected almost every person of Mongolian descent and set the stage for the future creation of the IMPP.\n\n"}
{"id": "52149916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52149916", "title": "Janet Anne Galloway", "text": "Janet Anne Galloway\n\nJanet Anne Galloway (1841–1909) was an advocate for higher education for women in Scotland, supporter of the Glasgow Association for the Higher Education of Women and secretary of Queen Margaret College.\n\nJanet Anne Galloway was born in Birdston, Stirlingshire, Scotland on 10 October 1841, the only surviving daughter in four children born to Alexander Galloway (1802–1883) a land surveyor and estate factor and his wife, Anne Bald. Janet moved with her family to Glasgow in 1844, where her father worked as a land agent, valuer, and accountant.\n\nJanet was initially educated in Britain, before being sent to schools in France, Germany, and Netherlands where she learnt to speak French and German fluently. She also developed an interest in history and archaeology and was taught bookkeeping and business methods by her father. Janet was known to be an accomplished pianist with an enduring love for music.\n\nAs a result of the limited educational opportunities open to women, Janet became an active supporter of the movement for higher education provision for women. In 1877 Janet was appointed as the honorary secretary of the new Glasgow Association for the Higher Education of Women, founded by Jessie Campbell and financed by Isabella Elder. John Caird, principal of Glasgow University at the time, was the first Chairman of its General Committee. Janet was responsible for recruiting teachers lecturers and examiners, and helped to develop and plan teaching methods and standards.\n\nThe Glasgow Association for the Higher Education of Women was incorporated into Queen Margaret College in 1833. The college opened in 1884 in North Park House, Glasgow, a merchants' mansion acquired by Isabella Elder and gifted to the college. Janet became the first secretary of the college, though she refused to accept any remuneration for her duties. Following her father's death in 1833, Janet moved into the college premises at North Park House.\n\nQueen Margaret College became part of the University of Glasgow in 1892, following the Scottish Universities Commissioners ordinance to empower Scottish Universities to provide instruction for women and enable them to graduate. At this point Janet became an officer of the university, though she continued to decline payment for her services. Janet took a keen interest in the pastoral life of the university's female students; she organised social events and gatherings, encouraged the formation of societies and unions, and followed their careers after they graduated. In 1885 Janet was one of the founders of the Queen Margaret Guild an organisation that arranged talks for the university extension movement, and in 1894 she helped to found the student residence Queen Margaret Hall. She also helped to establish a women graduates association and was an active member of the executive committee of the Queen Margaret Settlement Association, which was part of the social reform settlement movement established in the 1880s. In 1893 Janet was personally invited to the Chicago Great Exhibition as a representative of Queen Margaret College. Janet was awarded an Honorary LLD by the University of Glasgow in 1907 in recognition of her lifelong dedication to the higher education of women\n\nJanet was a political Conservative who opposed both women's suffrage and the employment of female lecturers. She initially believed that Queen Margaret College should educate women in their traditional roles, rather than equip them to enter men's professions. Although she was an advocate of single sex education she also campaigned throughout her life to open universities to women.\n\nJanet was baptized within the Church of Scotland but was a dedicated member of the Scottish Episcopal Church in Glasgow.\n\nJanet, who remained unmarried throughout her life, continued working right up to her death on 23 January 1909. She died at her home on Queen Margaret Drive, Glasgow and is buried in Lennoxtown cemetery, Campsie. Following her death, a fund was raised for a memorial window in Bute Hall at the University of Glasgow. The Janet Galloway Memorial Window, titled \"The Pursuit of Ideal Education\", pictures Janet alongside Isabella Elder and Jessie Campbell.\n\nA former student remembered Janet as being:\"never too busy to see a student, advised as to courses and future careers, encouraged the ambitious, scolded the frivolous, found friends for the solitary, secured posts for those who were ready for them, and smoothed untrodden paths for many a diffident beginner\".\n"}
{"id": "39246536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39246536", "title": "Krasnodon Raion", "text": "Krasnodon Raion\n\nKrasnodon Raion () is a raion (district) in Luhansk Oblast of eastern Ukraine. The administrative center of the district is the city of Krasnodon, which is incorporated separately as the city of oblast significance and does not belong to the raion. Population: .\n\nSince 2014, the raion has been controlled by forces of the Luhansk People's Republic.\n\nAs of the Ukrainian Census of 2001:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25841042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25841042", "title": "League for Small and Subject Nationalities", "text": "League for Small and Subject Nationalities\n\nThe League for Small and Subject Nationalities was a self-determinist organisation formed during World War I in New York City, with the following aims:\n\nThe League's President was Frederic C. Howe, who was also United States Commissioner of Immigration.\nAt a controversial meeting held in October 1917, the League was accused of pro-German bias when the issue of Alsace-Lorraine was due to be discussed. The Irish delegation was represented by Hanna Sheehy-Skeffington of Sinn Féin, who was also accused of sympathies for Germany.\n"}
{"id": "10946057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10946057", "title": "List of Ghana governments", "text": "List of Ghana governments\n\nThis is a list of the governments of Ghana. Prior to independence, Ghana was under colonial rule in various forms including direct or indirect British rule. On February 12, 1951, the first Ghanaian government or cabinet, dominated by native Ghanaians was formed in the run up to independence on March 6, 1957. since then, Ghana has had a mix of democratically elected governments as well as military ones. It has had a one party state status between 1964 and 1966 while some of the military governments have had extensive civilian involvement such as the Provisional National Defence Council governments.\n\n"}
{"id": "16786102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16786102", "title": "List of Zimbabwean parliamentary constituencies", "text": "List of Zimbabwean parliamentary constituencies\n\nThe following is a list of parliamentary constituencies in Zimbabwe, as broken down by province. The list covers both the House of Assembly and Senate, and is current as of the 2008 parliamentary elections. The Senate seats are nested, meaning that each Senate constituency is made up of multiple House constituencies. For each Senate constituency, the House constituencies it contains are listed in parenthesis.\n\nThe House of Assembly consists of 270 members. Of these, 210 are elected in single-member constituencies of roughly equal size, with provinces having a varying number of constituencies depending on population. (The remaining 60 seats are elected at the province level, and are reserved for women). In the Senate, each of the 10 provinces elect 6 members to the Senate, and an extra 20 members elected in other ways, for a total of 80 members of the Senate.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34368647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34368647", "title": "List of anti-capitalist and communist parties with national parliamentary representation", "text": "List of anti-capitalist and communist parties with national parliamentary representation\n\nThe following is a list of communist and anti-capitalist parties with representation in national parliaments. This list does not contain communist and anti-capitalist parties previously represented in parliament. This list includes only those parties who officially call themselves communist or anti-capitalist (or socialist parties who are declared anti-capitalist) ideologically. 115 communist and anti-capitalist parties have been elected worldwide to parliament in 56 different countries in both recognised and non-recognised states. Of the 66 states listed here, 9 of them are republics ruled by a socialist, communist or anticapitalist party, five of them are official socialist states ruled by a communist party, of them four of them espouse Marxism–Leninism (China, Cuba, Laos, and Vietnam) while the fifth (North Korea) espouses Juche.\n\n"}
{"id": "894262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=894262", "title": "MedlinePlus", "text": "MedlinePlus\n\nMedlinePlus is an online information service produced by the United States National Library of Medicine. The service provides curated consumer health information in English and Spanish.\nThe site brings together information from the National Library of Medicine (NLM), the National Institutes of Health (NIH), other U.S. government agencies, and health-related organizations. There is also a site optimized for display on mobile devices, in both English and Spanish. In 2015, about 400 million people from around the world used MedlinePlus. The service is funded by the NLM and is free to users.\n\nMedlinePlus provides encyclopedic information on health and drug issues, and provides a directory of medical services. MedlinePlus Connect links patients or providers in electronic health record (EHR) systems to related MedlinePlus information on conditions or medications.\n\nPubMed Health is another NLM site that offers consumer health information, in addition to information for health professionals.\n\nThe National Library of Medicine has long provided programs and services for professional medical scientists and health care providers, including MEDLINE and the various services that access it, such as PubMed and Entrez. By the 1990s, more members of the general public were using these services as Internet access became widespread. But nonprofessional users could benefit from reliable health information in a layperson-accessible format. The National Library of Medicine introduced MedlinePlus in October 1998, to provide a non-commercial online service similar, for example, to the commercial WebMD. In 2010 another NCBI service, PubMed Health, complemented MedlinePlus in offering curated consumer health information; PubMed Health focuses especially on finding information about clinical effectiveness of treatments.\n\nMedlinePlus initially provided 29 health topics in English, which expanded to almost 1000 health topics in English and Spanish, plus links to health information in over 40 languages. MedlinePlus was recognized by the Medical Library Association for its role in providing health information. The site scored 84 in the American Customer Satisfaction Index for 2010.\n\nIn 2000s, A.D.A.M.'s medical book thing was incorporated into MedlinePlus. The \"Animated Dissection of Anatomy for Medicine, Inc.\" is a NASDAQ-traded public company based in Atlanta, Georgia, that provides consumer health information and benefits technology products to healthcare organizations, employers, consumers, and educational institutions.\n"}
{"id": "1019791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1019791", "title": "National Merit Scholarship Program", "text": "National Merit Scholarship Program\n\nThe National Merit Scholarship Program is a United States academic scholarship competition for recognition and university scholarships administered by the National Merit Scholarship Corporation (NMSC), a privately funded, not-for-profit organization based in Evanston, Illinois. The program began in 1955.\n\nNMSC conducts an annual competition for recognition and scholarships: the National Merit Scholarship Program, which is open to all students who meet entry requirements, and until 2015, it also ran the National Achievement Scholarship Program (est. 1964), which was reserved for African-American students. The highest-achieving students in the National Merit Scholarship Program are designated as National Merit Scholars. Finalists and Semifinalists are also given recognition for their academic and extracurricular achievements. Commended Students are named on the basis of a nationally applied Selection Index score, which may vary from year to year and is typically below the level required for participants to be named Semifinalists in their respective states. Each year's Preliminary SAT/National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test (PSAT/NMSQT) is the qualifying test for a student's entry to a particular year's competitions.\n\nAbout 1.6 million students in some 22,000 high schools enter the National Merit Scholarship competition annually when they take the Preliminary SAT/National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test (PSAT/NMSQT). This serves to screen program entrants, measuring critical reading ability, mathematics problem-solving ability, and writing ability, rather than existing knowledge. Semifinalists are designated on a state representational basis, contingent on the total number of entrants and in proportion to each state’s percentage of the nation’s high school graduating seniors. Semifinalists are the highest-scoring program entrants in each state and represent the top 0.5% percent of the state’s senior students.\n\nTo be considered for a National Merit Scholarship, Semifinalists have to fulfill requirements to advance to Finalist standing. Each Semifinalist submits a detailed scholarship application, which includes essays and information about extracurricular achievements, awards, and leadership positions. Semifinalists also have to have an outstanding academic record, be endorsed and recommended by a school official, and earn SAT scores that confirm their qualifying test performance. From the Semifinalist group, a certain number of students, varying from year to year, advance to Finalist standing depending on the above criteria. By the conclusion of the competition, a select group of Finalists are chosen to receive prestigious National Merit Scholarships totaling nearly $35 million. Winners are the Finalist candidates judged to have the strongest combination of academic skills and achievements, extracurricular accomplishments, and potential for success in rigorous university studies. Scholarship winners represent fewer than 1% of the initial pool of student entrants, based on official statistics released by the National Merit Scholarship Corporation.\n\nTo enter the competition, a student must\n\nThe NMSC uses the PSAT/NMSQT as the initial screen of over 1.5 million program entrants. In the spring of the junior year, NMSC determines a national Selection Index qualifying score (critical reading + math + writing skills scores) for \"Commended\" recognition, which is calculated each year to yield students at about the 96th percentile (top 50,000 highest scorers). Up until 2016 (when the College Board changed the format and style of the PSAT), scores in the 200s (out of 240) often qualified for recognition; however, with the New SAT and PSAT format and grading system, which is out of 228 (not 240, which is what it was on the old PSAT), qualifying scores for commendation are about 207, but qualifying levels change annually depending on how the top approximately 50,000 high scorers fared. Qualification levels also vary by state, and qualifying levels are higher in competitive states such as New Jersey and Massachusetts. For the 2009/2010 school year, a score of 217 was required in California to qualify. Notification is mailed to school principals in April regarding students who scored at or above this level. The principals then notify their students of their status. These students are given the opportunity to identify two colleges or universities to which they would like NMSC to send their scores.\n\nEarly the next September (beginning of the senior year, almost a year after the PSAT/NMSQT was taken), NMSC determines Selection Index qualifying scores for further recognition by state (including three other areas: DC, US Territories and Commonwealths, and students enrolled in schools outside the US) and US boarding schools (by geographic region). About 16,000 of the 50,000 are recognized as National Merit Semifinalists in this process. The Selection Index qualifying scores for Semifinalist standing vary from state to state and from year to year. Each state is allocated a percentage of Semifinalists based on the percentage of that state's graduating seniors out of the nation's total. The National Merit Scholarship Corporation does not release to the public the minimum qualifying score required per state. In August after the PSAT was taken, high school principals are mailed notification about their Semifinalists. Principals communicate these results to their students, though some misread the NMSC materials and do not release them until the NMSC press release, which comes in mid-September. Those not making Semifinalist are \"Commended\", and receive a Letter of Commendation; they do not continue in the competition for Merit Scholarship awards.\n\nSemifinalists must fulfill additional requirements and advance to the Finalist level of the competition to be considered for a scholarship. Approximately 15,000 of the 16,000 Semifinalists advance to Finalist standing by submitting SAT scores that confirm the earlier PSAT/NMSQT performance, having an outstanding academic record, and being endorsed and recommended by a high school official. They must also submit an application that includes high school courses and grades, extracurricular and volunteer activities, and a self-descriptive essay. The information that is collected about each Semifinalist is used later in the process to choose scholarship winners. All Finalists receive a Certificate of Merit in recognition of their outstanding performance in the competition.\n\nOf the 15,000 Finalists, about 8,000 receive Merit Scholarship awards. All Finalists are considered for one of the 2,500 National Merit $2,500 Scholarships. National Merit $2,500 Scholarship winners are the Finalists in each state judged to have the strongest combination of accomplishments, skills, and potential for success in rigorous college studies. The number of winners named in each state is proportional to the state’s percentage of the nation’s graduating high school seniors. These Scholars were selected by a committee of college admissions officers and high school counselors, who appraised a substantial amount of information submitted by both the Finalists and their high schools: the academic record, including difficulty level of subjects studied and grades earned; scores from two standardized tests; contributions and leadership in school and community activities; an essay written by the Finalist; and a recommendation written by a high school official. NMSC's own funds support the majority of these awards but corporate sponsors help underwrite these awards with grants they provide to NMSC in lieu of paying administrative fees. About 1,100 Merit Scholarship awards are provided by corporate sponsors for Finalists who meet criteria specified by the sponsor. Most of these awards are for children of the sponsor's employees, for Finalists living in a particular geographic area, or for Finalists who have career plans the sponsor wishes to encourage. These two types of awards can be used at any regionally accredited college or university in the United States. There are also approximately 4,600 college-sponsored Merit Scholarship awards for Finalists who plan to attend a sponsor college. Finalists report to NMSC their first choice college (College-Sponsored Merit Awards). In addition, about 1,500 program participants who are below the Finalist level receive Special Scholarships provided by corporate sponsors.\n\nTo receive a scholarship payment, a Merit Scholarship winner must (a) notify NMSC of plans to enroll in a college or university in the United States that holds accredited status with a regional accrediting commission on higher education, and (b) plan to enroll full-time in an undergraduate course of study leading to a traditional baccalaureate degree. NMSC scholarship stipends are not payable for attendance at United States service academies, distance learning programs, and certain institutions that are limited in their purposes or training. A number of National Merit Scholars do not receive a monetary award because their educational plans or other awards preclude receipt of a monetary scholarship; however, these students may be honored as Honorary Merit Scholars, a designation that acknowledges achievement without providing any financial assistance.\n\nThe National Achievement® Scholarship Program was established in 1964, contemporaneously with the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, specifically to encourage Black American youth to continue their education.\n\nIn its half century of existence, more than four million African-Americans have entered the program. Approximately 228,000 have received program recognition, and more than 34,000 of the most outstanding participants were chosen to receive Achievement Scholarship® awards.\n\nPrior to 2016, black students who met entry requirements and requested consideration when they took the PSAT/NMSQT could enter both the National Achievement Scholarship Program and the National Merit Program. The two programs were conducted concurrently; however, a student's standing in each program was determined independently. Black students could qualify for recognition, become candidates for awards, and be honored as Scholars in both competitions, but they could receive only one monetary award from NMSC. Students who were chosen as both National Achievement and National Merit Scholars received the monetary award that was most advantageous to them and were recognized as Honorary Scholars in the other program.\n\nWith the conclusion of the 2015 program, the National Achievement Scholarship Program transitioned to the United Negro College Fund, which will use program funds to honor and award financial assistance to high-achieving, underrepresented college graduates through the newly designed Achievement Capstone Program.\n\nBecause Achievement Scholarship funds are being redirected to awards for college graduates, Black American high school students no longer have the opportunity to compete for Achievement Scholarship awards. However, they may still enter the National Merit® Scholarship competition, and they may be eligible to receive awards from the United Negro College Fund after college graduation.\n\nThe following is a list of notable National Merit Scholarship Program honorees, many of whom are listed on the \"Scholars You May Know\" page on the National Merit Scholarship Corporation website.\n\nA number of universities reserve or guarantee additional merit-based funding for students who are National Merit Scholars, Finalists or Semifinalists. The National Merit Scholarship Corporation releases annual reports displaying the number of award winners enrolled at specific universities, which some believe encourage competition to attract students in this select group. Secondary schools may also publish information related to their students, in order to augment perception on teaching quality.\n\nThe following lists the fifteen universities that enroll the greatest number of National Merit Scholars according to the 2016-17 Annual Report of the National Merit Scholarship Corporation. (\"total scholars including college-sponsored scholars/college-sponsored scholars alone\")\n\n1 University of Oklahoma (317/267)<br>\n2 University of Chicago (259/171)<br>\n3 University of Southern California (257/197)<br>\n4 Vanderbilt University (219/176)<br>\n5 Harvard University (219/0)<br>\n6 University of Florida (202/163)<br>\n7 Northwestern University (200/161)<br>\n8 Stanford University (168/0)<br>\n9 University of Texas, Dallas (160/128)<br>\n10 University of Minnesota-Twin Cities (159/122)<br>\n11*Massachusetts Institute of Technology (156/0)<br>\n11*Yale University (156/0)<br>\n13 Northeastern University (153/129)<br>\n14 Purdue University (141/119)<br>\n15 University of California, Berkeley (136/0)\n\nUnder the umbrella of their professional organization, the National Association for College Admission Counseling (NACAC), college and university admissions officers have strongly criticized the National Merit Scholarship Corporation's use of only one measure—the PSAT/NMSQT—to pre-screen students for National Merit recognition.\n\nThe NACAC's position was emphasized in a July 2009 announcement, which stated the following:\n\"Implementing the recommendations of its blue-ribbon Testing Commission, the National Association for College Admissions Counseling (NACAC) has called on the National Merit Scholarship Corporation (NMSC) and the College Board to stop using PSAT scores as the initial screen for the country’s most prestigious academic awards.\"\n\nIn public letters to the test’s co-sponsors, NACAC charged that eliminating 99% of test-takers from the National Merit Scholarship competition solely on the basis of a multiple-choice, standardized exam was “at odds with best practices in the use of admissions test scores.” To be eligible for scholarships, high school juniors must score among the top 1% of test-takers in their home state. The PSAT serves as the National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test (NMSQT), and measures critical reading ability, mathematics problem solving ability and writing ability, rather than existing knowledge. These criticisms were challenged by both the College Board and the National Merit Scholarship Corporation.\n\nFairTest (National Center for Fair and Open Testing) has also voiced concerns about the level of transparency in the National Merit Scholarship Corporation's selection process. In February 2010, it issued an announcement stating the following:\n\"The National Merit Scholarship Corporation (NMSC), which runs the country’s most prestigious tuition aid competition, is trying to block internet posting of state-by-state test score requirements for its awards.\" FairTest, however, has been criticized for its lack of credentials, unnamed sources of funding, and generalized claims associated with standardized exams.\nAdditional criticism exists in that the National Merit Scholarship Corporation (NMSC) does not publish information regarding scholarship winners by year by state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44324527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44324527", "title": "Nicaraguan exceptionalism", "text": "Nicaraguan exceptionalism\n\nNicaraguan exceptionalism (Spanish: \"Excepcionalismo Nicaragüense\") is a belief that Nicaragua is an exceptional nation, different from its Central American neighbors, despite shared history in the Federal Republic of Central America and regional integration in the Central American Integration System. This concept differs from the exceptionalism of other nations primarily as its basis rests solely upon the actions and institutions implemented since the Sandanista government took power in the 1979 revolution, and again in 2006 after passing power to the National Opposition Union. The difference here is, most nationalist claims to exceptionalism originate from the founding of nations and/or the development of their cultures due to long histories.\n\nThe widely regarded exception within the current panorama of dystopian violence afflicting contemporary Central America, Nicaragua is often hailed as \"the safest (sano) country in Latin America (despite also being the poorest)\". Other exceptionalism claims include the concept that Nicaragua is highly resistant to drug trafficking as compared even to richer neighbors like Costa Rica and Panama. Even Western media have drawn on this notion in reporting on why Nicaraguan children are not migrating to the United States in the 2014 American immigration crisis to flee drug trafficking violence (despite that there is heavy Nicaraguan immigration to neighboring Costa Rica). \n"}
{"id": "24332948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24332948", "title": "Nobody for President", "text": "Nobody for President\n\nNobody for President was a parodic campaign for the 1976 United States presidential election, as well as the 1980 and 1984 presidential elections.\n\nWavy Gravy, master of ceremonies for the Woodstock Festival and official clown of the Grateful Dead, is believed to have nominated Nobody at the Yippie national convention outside the Republican National Convention in Kansas City in 1976. Another of those responsible, Arthur Hoppe (a syndicated columnist for the \"San Francisco Chronicle\") claims to have distributed \"several thousand\" Nobody for President campaign buttons and to have written \"dozens of columns extolling Nobody's virtues\". It was the second time the Yippies had nominated an ineligible candidate for the Presidency, following the nomination of a boar named Pigasus eight years prior.\n\nThe organizers of the campaign staged a ticker-tape parade down a boulevard in Berkeley, California, with motorcycle police flanking a convertible limousine occupied by nobody. The campaign's slogans included \"Nobody's perfect\", and \"Nobody should have too much power\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3711472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3711472", "title": "North American Phalanx", "text": "North American Phalanx\n\nThe North American Phalanx was a secular utopian socialist commune located in Colts Neck Township, Monmouth County, New Jersey. The community was the longest-lived of about 30 Fourierist Associations in the United States which emerged during a brief burst of popularity during the decade of the 1840s.\n\nThe North American Phalanx was established in September 1843 and included the active participation of writer Albert Brisbane and newspaper publisher Horace Greeley, two of the leading figures of the Fourierist movement. The Association was disbanded in January 1856, following a catastrophic fire which destroyed a number of the community's productive enterprises. At the time of its termination it was the last of about 30 Fourierist Associations established during the 1840s still in existence and thus was the longest-lived.\n\nThe main residential dwelling of the phalanx, a three-story wooden structure, stood vacant until it was itself destroyed by fire in November 1972.\n\nCharles Fourier (1772–1837) was a French philosopher who believed that the structure of modern civilization led to poverty, unemployment, isolation, and unhappiness and that people would be better off living in organized communal societies rather than individual family units. Fourier developed the idea of the phalanstère, a collectively dwelling and cooperatively working community of 1,620 people organized on the basis of a joint stock company.\n\nWhile never pursued in France during his lifetime, Fourier's ideas found practical realization in the United States in the 1840s and early 1850s as a result of the books and newspaper columns of Albert Brisbane (1809–1890). It was Brisbane who translated, distilled, and adapted Fourier's ideas for an American audience, largely through the pages of Horace Greeley's \"New York Tribune,\" stirring popular enthusiasm for the French intellectual's ideas for the formation of local associations, known as \"phalanxes.\"\n\nEarly in 1843 a general call was issued in New York City by Brisbane, Greeley, and others, seeking local organizations of Fourierist groups. This call inspired the formation in the summer of 1843 of a group calling itself the Albany Branch of the North American Phalanx. About 20 families participated in the official planning of the group, of which about a dozen families formally subscribed to the draft constitution, on August 12, 1843.\n\nIt was believed by the first participants that considerable capital would be raised for establishment of an American cooperative association and that a number of other branch organizations would emerge throughout the New York region, inspired by the Albany group's activity and success. Neither of these expectations were realized, however, as it was only with great difficulty that a sum just under $7,000 was raised and no other local associations would immediately follow. Moreover, a majority of the phalanx's financing came from outside sources, as over time 61% of the association's stock would be held by outsiders, including 527 shares held by a sympathetic consortium of merchants from New York City.\n\nDespite clearly inadequate resources, the Albany Branch, headed by Charles Sears and Nathan Starks, decided to persevere and a search began for suitable agricultural lands upon which a local phalanstry might be established.\n\nA domain of was located near the small town of Red Bank, New Jersey, priced at $14,000. Of this sum $5,000 of the community's funds were invested as a down payment, leaving a mortgage of $9,000 to be repaid over time. Barely $2,000 remained for the construction of buildings and the purchase of working animals, farm implements, and other necessary goods.\n\nColonization began in September 1843, with six families crowded into two houses previously existing on the property. Temporary housing was rapidly constructed to provide accommodations for the rest of the party that winter.\n\nOthers arrived at the site in the spring of 1844, with a total of 100 people as part of 20 families in residence by the end of that year. At its peak the community would eventually count about 150 people in residence, including children, usually ranging between 120 and that number.\n\nAfter one year of existence a saw-mill had been constructed and was nearly ready for operation, and a blacksmith shop and a machine shop powered by a steam engine were already operational. In addition, the community included stables, animal and wagon sheds, carpentry shops, a school and children's day care area, guest cottages, landscaped gardens and paths, and an artificial pond for bathing, boating and a supply of ice in the winter.\n\nMost of the household heads living in the North American Phalanx at the time of its formation had either passing or practical knowledge of agriculture. The land was deemed quite suitable for fruit farming and a good percentage of the available land was subsequently committed to fruit trees, including apples, peaches, pears, and quince. In addition grape vines were planted.\n\nIn 1847 a new three-story addition was constructed, adding common area. Together with a pair of long halls, the phalanx subsequently had housing sufficient for each family to be allotted a parlor and two bedrooms. A 70-foot long restaurant was also constructed at the same time.\n\nThe North American Phalanx was moderately successful during its first seven years of operation, paying annual dividends ranging from 4.4% to 5.6% on capital invested, as well as hourly wages to all workers of the community.\n\nIn accordance with the Fourierian scheme, labor was divided into general departments, called \"series,\" of which there were six at the North American Phalanx: agriculture, livestock, manufacturing, domestic work, education, and \"festal\" (entertainment). Within each of these there were additional subdivisions called \"groups,\" consisting of 3 to 7 people, who would work cooperatively on specific given tasks. For example, the agricultural serie included four groups: farming, market gardening, orchard, and experimental. Additional groups not associated with any series were formed for performance of special \"repugnant\" work and the care of visitors.\n\nEach of these groups elected a chief, who kept track of labor time and who represented it at meetings with other group chiefs at meetings of the department, called the \"council.\" Council members in turn elected a chief, who served as general manager of the department and presiding officer at meetings of the council. These general managers each met daily as part of a body called the Industrial Council, which determined jobs needing to be done the following day.\n\nDomestic work was performed by women, with the organized subdivision of domestic tasks practiced in accordance with the model used for other series.\n\nAt the end of each year, proceeds of the year's production would be calculated and — in accordance with the Fourierian scheme — awards for capital, labor, and talent allocated. By way of example, rates of 5% on capital invested and $1 per ten-hour day for \"ordinary\" labor were in force at the end of the North American Phalanx's existence. Jobs were compensated at three levels, with exhausting or repugnant jobs earning a premium and light and attractive jobs being docked a penalty. In addition bonuses were awarded or demerits assessed for the excellence or lack of skill of performance.\n\nEach group rated its own members for purposes of compensation, with labor performance rather than age or gender the determining factor in setting wage rates.\n\nWhile the community initially attempted to make payment to its members in cash, with money tied up in land and property and the supply of paper money erratic, a move to the issuance of scrip was soon made. This \"house currency\" was of the same general size and appearance as regular paper money of the day, but featured a central bust of Charles Fourier. Wages and assessments for room and board were made monthly, with scrip used as tender to settle the balances of all such accounts.\n\nCollective living and rational division of domestic responsibility was a primary tenet of Fourierism. During its first two or three years of existence, extreme frugality was deemed necessary, and only \"scanty\" meals were served at the common table. The situation was further complicated by the presence of significant numbers of associationists with specific dietary beliefs, including contingents of vegetarians and Christian sectarians who foreswore the use of all products produced at the cost of a sacrifice of life. The effect was disruptive, with the moderate and extreme vegetarians agitating against the slaughter of animals and the consumption of meat.\n\nThe dietary dilemma was ultimately resolved by the establishment of a restaurant in lieu of a common table and a move towards providing board on a priced a la carte basis rather than through a unified menu. The pricing out of food had the additional beneficial aspect of reducing the amount of waste according to North American Phalanx president Charles Sears.\n\nJust as there was difference in eating habits, a range of religious affiliations existed among the North American Phalanx's resident members. Included among the community's ranks were Unitarians, Presbyterians, Quakers, Baptists, Episcopalians, Jews, Shakers, as well as agnostics and atheists. While religious matters were frequently the object of discussion and debate, heated division over religious topics does not seem to have occurred in the community until 1853, with the climate sharpening as the end of the institution approached.\n\nThe phalanx maintained a nursery for younger children as well as a school for older children, the combination of which served to significantly reduce the domestic duties of female members. Efforts were made to build an appreciation for collectivist ideals in the minds of the community's 30 to 40 children, with children and youth encouraged to work cooperatively in organizing amusements, forest expeditions, camping trips, and craft projects.\n\nCommunity entertainment was more formally organized in 1849 with the formation of a \"festal series\" in charge of staging musical concerts, dramatic presentations, and dances. In addition, the community had a vibrant informal social atmosphere, with nightly walks in the woods, card games, and singing around the piano. Members read Greeley's \"New York Tribune\" and other newspapers, agricultural publications, and maintained a reading room. A steady stream of visitors infused new ideas and earnest discussions into the small rural society. The atmosphere of the North American Phalanx and other Fourierist Associations which survived more than a year or two resembled that of a vibrant New England farming village, it was later reckoned.\n\nThe phalanx's 1843 constitution provided for administration through a central council, composed of a president, vice-president, treasurer, and 12 directors, with the executive officers serving one year terms and the council members serving staggered two year terms. Originally, only stockholders voted in elections for the council, but all members were given a vote in an 1848 amendment. Heads of each series were granted \"ex officio\" status as members of the central council.\n\nSuffrage was universal both industrially and politically, with any regular working member of a group entitled to vote within that group without regard to gender.\n\nThe North American Phalanx, like the Fourierist movement in general, was ultimately undermined by its unachievable utopian basis — a general creed which as one scholar observed \"promised too much and required too little of its adherents.\" The disparity between promises of social transformation and economic abundance and the realities of primitive agriculture and crude living conditions ended with the disillusionment of starry-eyed communitarians and their inflated expectations. Work was hard, the process of development slow and difficult, and communal life in close quarters presented a whole host of social pressures which undermined community stability.\n\nThe Fourierist model of labor division and wage calculation also proved inefficient in practice, with president Charles Sears noting that members of the North American Phalanx were so preoccupied with work allocation and scheduling that \"our days were spent in labor and our nights in legislation\" — a regimen which sapped the vitality of the community. The community's unity was also undermined by an inequality of workloads and compensation, as Carl Guarneri has observed:\n\"For Fourier, the notion that some Harmonians would work less than others demonstrated true passional freedom; life in the American phalanxes, however, required hard work and self-sacrifice. As their communities struggled through indebtedness, chronic shortages, and crop failures, Associationists found themselves undermined by their own propaganda... The phalanxes never solved the problem of what to do about those who did not assume their share of the work.\"\n\nWage rates were another source of discord, with machine operators formally complaining in 1853 that their wages paid as members of the phalanx ran significantly behind wages paid for comparable work in competitive industry outside the association. Moreover, the wages paid to working members of the phalanx proved barely adequate to cover room, board, and clothing for families with children — causing the loss of many of the same and the undermining of hopes of passing the community to a new generation.\n\nThe North American Phalanx was also hard hit by the loss of its chief carpenter, a skilled horticulturalist, and other leading members in an 1853 succession to join the fledgling Raritan Bay Union. In short order Raritan Bay members and financial supporters owned fully one-sixth of the North American Phalanx's stock, further weakening the older phalanx's resolve to continue.\n\nDisaster came on September 10, 1854, when a fire swept the colony's mill and all its contents. No insurance was recovered, and the community found itself facing $30,000 in accumulated debt with no ready means of repayment. Of this, some $9,000 remained unpaid on the original mortgage, with additional bills accumulated for a new engine and boiler for the mill. Additionally, at the time of the fire the mill had housed a large quantity of wheat purchased on credit, for which the phalanx was financially responsible.\n\nWhile Horace Greeley offered to loan the association $12,000 for construction of a replacement facility, members of the phalanx ultimately decided not to take advantage of this offer, which would have boosted the debt load and necessitated another arduous reconstruction period. Instead, starting with the January 1855 stockholders' meeting, plans began to be made either to sell part of the phalanx's land to satisfy debt or to sell the community in whole. Efforts were made to sell the phalanx to a group organizing around Fourierist adherent Victor Considerant to act as a staging point for newcomers to his new colonization project in the state of Texas. No such agreement could be reached however.\n\nInstead in June 1855 the stockholders voted that the community should liquidate its assets and terminate its existence. In October community land was surveyed and divided into parcels ranging in size from 5 to 150 acres and sold at auction, together with all movable property. A total of $80,000 was raised from the sale of the North American Phalanx's land and property, with the proceeds divided and disbursed to the stockholders, who received 57.33 cents per dollar invested in the liquidation.\n\nIn January 1856 the North American Phalanx — the sole survivor of the Fourierist boom of the 1840s — was formally terminated.\n\nThe North American Phalanx was the second most publicized association of the 1840s Fourierist movement, surpassed in general interest only by Brook Farm in West Roxbury, Massachusetts.\n\nThe main edifice of the North American Phalanx stood until November 1972 when it was destroyed in another fire. At present, two structures – both private homes – from the original Phalanx property survive. One of them, constructed around 1851, was the cottage of Marcus Spring, a merchant from Brooklyn, New York, who was a supporter of the Phalanx. He and his family used the cottage as their summer home. Although Mr. Spring was not a resident member of the Phalanx, he was one of its largest shareholders, having invested, with several New York colleagues, over $50,000 in the endeavor.\n\nThe Monmouth County Historical Association in Freehold Borough, New Jersey houses a collection of records of the North American Archive which include legal and financial documents, meeting minutes, miscellaneous manuscripts, published material about the phalanx, photographs and illustrations, maps, drawings, and blueprints. The collection contains a total of 148 items and occupies 2 linear feet of shelf space and is open for use by researchers without restriction.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "555750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=555750", "title": "Permeable paving", "text": "Permeable paving\n\nPermeable paving is a method of paving vehicle and pedestrian pathways that allows for infiltration of fluids. In pavement design the base is the top portion of the roadway that pedestrians or vehicles come into contact with. The media used for the base of permeable paving may be porous, to allow for fluids to flow through it, or nonporous media that are spaced so that fluid may flow in between the gaps. In addition to reducing surface runoff, permeable paving can trap suspended solids therefore filtering pollutants from stormwater. Examples include roads, paths, and parking lots that are subject to light vehicular traffic, such as cycle-paths, service or emergency access lanes, road and airport shoulders, and residential sidewalks and driveways.\n\nAlthough some porous paving materials appear nearly indistinguishable from nonporous materials, their environmental effects are qualitatively different. Whether it is pervious concrete, porous asphalt, paving stones or concrete or plastic-based pavers, all these permeable paving systems allow stormwater to percolate and infiltrate the surface areas, bypassing the traditionally impervious materials to the soil below. The goal is to control stormwater at the source, reduce runoff and improve water quality by filtering pollutants in the substrata layers.\n\nPermeable solutions can be based on: porous asphalt and concrete surfaces, concrete pavers (permeable interlocking concrete paving systems – PICP), or polymer-based grass pavers, grids and geocells. Porous pavements and concrete pavers (actually the voids in-between them) enable stormwater to drain through a stone base layer for on-site infiltration and filtering. Polymer based grass grid or cellular paver systems provide load bearing reinforcement for unpaved surfaces of gravel or turf.\n\nGrass pavers, plastic turf reinforcing grids (PTRG), and geocells (cellular confinement systems) are honeycombed 3D grid-cellular systems, made of thin-walled HDPE plastic or other polymer alloys. These provide grass reinforcement, ground stabilization and gravel retention. The 3D structure reinforces infill and transfers vertical loads from the surface, distributing them over a wider area. Selection of the type of cellular grid depends to an extent on the surface material, traffic and loads. The cellular grids are installed on a prepared base layer of open-graded stone (higher void spacing) or engineered stone (stronger). The surface layer may be compacted gravel or topsoil seeded with grass and fertilizer. In addition to load support, the cellular grid reduces compaction of the soil to maintain permeability, while the roots improve permeability due to their root channels.\n\nIn new suburban growth, porous pavements protect watersheds by delaying and filtering the surge flow. In existing built-up areas and towns, redevelopment and reconstruction are opportunities to implement stormwater water management practices. Permeable paving is an important component in Low Impact Development (LID), a process for land development in the United States that attempts to minimize impacts on water quality and the similar concept of sustainable drainage systems (SuDS) in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe infiltration capacity of the native soil is a key design consideration for determining the depth of base rock for stormwater storage or for whether an underdrain system is needed.\n\nPermeable paving surfaces have been demonstrated as effective in managing runoff from paved surfaces. Large volumes of urban runoff causes serious erosion and siltation in surface water bodies. Permeable pavers provide a solid ground surface, strong enough to take heavy loads, like large vehicles, while at the same time they allow water to filter through the surface and reach the underlying soils, mimicking natural ground absorption. They can reduce downstream flooding and stream bank erosion, and maintain base flows in rivers to keep ecosystems self-sustaining. Permeable pavers also combat erosion that occurs when grass is dry or dead, by replacing grassed areas in suburban and residential environments.\n\nPermeable paving surfaces keep the pollutants in place in the soil or other material underlying the roadway, and allow water seepage to groundwater recharge while preventing the stream erosion problems. They capture the heavy metals that fall on them, preventing them from washing downstream and accumulating inadvertently in the environment. In the void spaces, naturally occurring micro-organisms digest car oils, leaving little but carbon dioxide and water. Rainwater infiltration is usually less than that of an impervious pavement with a separate stormwater management facility somewhere downstream. .in areas where infiltration is not possible due to unsuitable soil conditions permeable pavements are used in the attenuation mode where water is retained in the pavement and slowly released to surface water systems between storm events.\n\nPermeable pavements may give urban trees the rooting space they need to grow to full size. A \"structural-soil\" pavement base combines structural aggregate with soil; a porous surface admits vital air and water to the rooting zone. This integrates healthy ecology and thriving cities, with the living tree canopy above, the city's traffic on the ground, and living tree roots below. The benefits of permeables on urban tree growth have not been conclusively demonstrated and many researchers have observed tree growth is not increased if construction practices compact materials before permeable pavements are installed.\n\nPermeable pavements are designed to replace Effective Impervious Areas (EIAs), not to manage stormwater from other impervious surfaces on site. Use of this technique must be part of an overall on site management system for stormwater, and is not a replacement for other techniques.\n\nDuring large storm event, the water table below the porous pavement can rise to a higher level, preventing the precipitation from being absorbed into the ground. Some additional water is stored in the open graded / crushed drain rock base, and remains until the subgrade can absorb the water. For clay-based soils, or other low to 'non'-draining soils, it is important to increase the depth of the crushed drain rock base to allow additional capacity for the water as it waits to be infiltrated.\n\nThe best way to prevent this problem is to understand the soil infiltration rate, and design the pavement and base depths to meet the volume of water. Or, allow for adequate rain water run off at the pavement design stage.\n\nRunoff across some land uses may become contaminated, where pollutant concentrations exceed those typically found in stormwater. These \"hot spots\" include commercial plant nurseries, recycling facilities, fueling stations, industrial storage, marinas, some outdoor loading facilities, public works yards, hazardous materials generators (if containers are exposed to rainfall), vehicle service and maintenance areas, and vehicle and equipment washing and steam cleaning facilities. Since porous pavement is an infiltration practice, it should not be applied at stormwater hot spots due to the potential for groundwater contamination. All contaminated runoff should be prevented from entering municipal storm drain systems by using best management practices (BMPs) for the specific industry or activity.\n\nReference sources differ on whether low or medium traffic volumes and weights are appropriate for porous pavements. For example, around truck loading docks and areas of high commercial traffic, porous pavement is sometimes cited as being inappropriate. However, given the variability of products available, the growing number of existing installations in North America and targeted research by both manufacturers and user agencies, the range of accepted applications seems to be expanding. Some concrete paver companies have developed products specifically for industrial applications. Working examples exist at fire halls, busy retail complex parking lots, and on public and private roads, including intersections in parts of North America with quite severe winter conditions.\n\nPermeable pavements may not be appropriate when land surrounding or draining into the pavement exceeds a 20 percent slope, where pavement is down slope from buildings or where foundations have piped drainage at their footers. The key is to ensure that drainage from other parts of a site is intercepted and dealt with separately rather than being directed onto permeable surfaces.\n\nCold climates may present special challenges. Road salt contains chlorides that could migrate through the porous pavement into groundwater. Snow plow blades could catch block edges and damage surfaces. Sand cannot be used for snow and ice control on porous surfaces because it will plug the pores and reduce permeability. Although there are design modifications to reduce the risks, infiltrating runoff may freeze below the pavement, causing frost heave. Another issue is spalling damage. Spalling damage exclusively occurs on porous concrete pavement from salt application during the winter season. Thus porous paving is suggested for warmer climates. However, other materials have proven to be effective, even lowering winter maintenance costs by preserving salt in the pavement itself. This also reduces the amount of storm water runoff that is contaminated with salt chlorides. Porous pavement designed to reduce frost heave and spalling damage has been used successfully in Norway. Furthermore, experience suggests that preventative measures with rapid drainage below porous surfaces be taken in order to increase the rate of snow melt above ground.\n\nSome estimates put the cost of permeable paving at two to three times that of conventional asphalt paving. Using permeable paving, however, can reduce the cost of providing larger or more stormwater BMPs on site, and these savings should be factored into any cost analysis. In addition, the off-site environmental impact costs of not reducing on-site stormwater volumes and pollution have historically been ignored or assigned to other groups (local government parks, public works and environmental restoration budgets, fisheries losses, etc.) The City of Olympia, Washington is studying the use of pervious concrete quite closely and finding that new stormwater regulations are making it a viable alternative to storm water.\n\nSome permeable pavements require frequent maintenance because grit or gravel can block the open pores. This is commonly done by industrial vacuums that suck up all the sediment. If maintenance is not carried out on a regular basis, the porous pavements can begin to function more like impervious surfaces. With more advanced paving systems the levels of maintenance needed can be greatly decreased, elastomerically bound glass pavements requires less maintenance than regular concrete paving as the glass bound pavement has 50% more void space.\n\nPlastic grid systems, if selected and installed correctly, are becoming more and more popular with local government maintenance personnel owing to the reduction in maintenance efforts: reduced gravel migration and weed suppression in public park settings.\n\nSome permeable paving products are prone to damage from misuse, such as drivers who tear up patches of plastic & gravel grid systems by \"joy riding\" on remote parking lots at night. The damage is not difficult to repair but can look unsightly in the meantime. Grass pavers require supplemental watering in the first year to establish the vegetation, otherwise they may need to be re-seeded. Regional climate also means that most grass applications will go dormant during the dry season. While brown vegetation is only a matter of aesthetics, it can influence public support for this type of permeable paving.\n\nTraditional permeable concrete paving bricks tend to lose their color in relatively short time which can be costly to replace or clean and is mainly due to the problem of efflorescence.\n\nEfflorescence is a hardened crystalline deposit of salts, principally calcium carbonates, which migrate from the center of concrete or masonry materials to the surface, where they form insoluble deposits that harden on the surface. Efflorescence usually appears white, gray or black depending on the region.\n\nOver time, efflorescence begins to degrade the overall appearance of masonry/concrete and may cause the surfaces to become slippery when exposed to moisture. If left unchecked, this efflorescence will harden whereby the calcium/lime deposits begin to affect the integrity of the cementitious surface by slowly eroding away the cement paste and aggregate. In some cases it will also discolor stained or coated surfaces.\n\nEfflorescence forms more quickly in areas that are exposed to excessive amounts of moisture, such as near pool decks, spas, and fountains or where irrigation runoff is present. The affected regions become very slick when wet. This can be of serious concern especially as a public safety issue to individuals, principals and property owners by exposing them to possible injury and increased general liability claims.\n\nEfflorescence remover chemicals can be used to remove calcium/lime build-up without damaging the integrity of the paving surface.\n\nInstallation of porous pavements is no more difficult than that of dense pavements, but has different specifications and procedures which must be strictly adhered to. Nine different families of porous paving materials present distinctive advantages and disadvantages for specific applications. Here are examples:\n\nPervious concrete is widely available, can bear frequent traffic, and is universally accessible. Pervious concrete quality depends on the installer's knowledge and experience.\n\nPlastic grids allow for a 100% porous system using structural grid systems for containing and stabilizing either gravel or turf. These grids come in a variety of shapes and sizes depending on use; from pathways to commercial parking lots. These systems have been used readily in Europe for over a decade, but are gaining popularity in North America due to requirements by government for many projects to meet LEED environmental building standards. Plastic grid system are also popular with homeowners due to their lower cost to install, ease of installation, and versatility. The ideal design for this type of grid system is a closed cell system, which prevents gravel/sand/turf from migrating laterally. It is also known as Grass pavers / Turf Pavers in India.\n\nPorous asphalt is produced and placed using the same methods as conventional asphalt concrete; it differs in that fine (small) aggregates are omitted from the asphalt mixture. The remaining large, single-sized aggregate particles leave open voids that give the material its porosity and permeability. To ensure pavement strength, fiber may be added to the mix or a polymer-modified asphalt binder may be used. Generally, porous asphalt pavements are designed with a subsurface reservoir that holds water that passes through the pavement, allowing it to evaporate and/or percolate slowly into the surround soils.\n\n\"Open-graded friction courses\" (OGFC) are a porous asphalt surface course used on highways to improve driving safety by removing water from the surface. Unlike a full-depth porous asphalt pavement, OGFCs do not drain water to the base of a pavement. Instead, they allow water to infiltrate the top 3/4 to 1.5 inch of the pavement and then drain out to the side of the roadway. This can improve the friction characteristics of the road and reducing road spray.\n\nSingle-sized aggregate without any binder, e.g. loose gravel, stone-chippings, is another alternative. Although it can only be safely used in walkways and very low-speed, low-traffic settings, e.g. car-parks and drives, its potential cumulative area is great.\n\nPorous turf, if properly constructed, can be used for occasional parking like that at churches and stadia. Plastic turf reinforcing grids can be used to support the increased load. Living turf transpires water, actively counteracting the \"heat island\" with what appears to be a green open lawn.\n\nPermeable interlocking concrete pavements are concrete units with open, permeable spaces between the units. They give an architectural appearance, and can bear both light and heavy traffic, particularly interlocking concrete pavers, excepting high-volume or high-speed roads. Some products are polymer-coated and have an entirely porous face.\n\nPermeable clay brick pavements are fired clay brick units with open, permeable spaces between the units. Clay pavers provide a durable surface that allows stormwater runoff to permeate through the joints.\n\nResin bound paving is a mixture of resin binder and aggregate. Clear resin is used to fully coat each aggregate particle before laying. Enough resin is used to allow each aggregate particle to adhere to one another and to the base yet leave voids for water to permeate through. Resin bound paving provides a strong and durable surface that is suitable for pedestrian and vehicular traffic in applications such as pathways, driveways, car parks and access roads.\n\nElastomerically bound recycled glass porous pavement consisting of bonding processed post consumer glass with a mixture of resins, pigments, granite and binding agents. Approximately 75 percent of glass in the U.S. is disposed in landfills.\n\nStormwater management practices related to roadways:\n\n"}
{"id": "310240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310240", "title": "Police officer", "text": "Police officer\n\nA police officer, also known as an officer, policeman, policewoman, cop, police agent, or a police employee is a warranted law employee of a police force. In most countries, \"police officer\" is a generic term not specifying a particular rank. In some, the use of the rank \"officer\" is legally reserved for military personnel.\n\nPolice officers are generally charged with the apprehension of criminals and the prevention and detection of crime, protection and assistance of the general public, and the maintenance of public order. Police officers may be sworn to an oath, and have the power to arrest people and detain them for a limited time, along with other duties and powers. Some officers are trained in special duties, such as counter-terrorism, surveillance, child protection, VIP protection, civil law enforcement, and investigation techniques into major crime including fraud, rape, murder, and drug trafficking. Although many police officers wear a corresponding uniform, some police officers are plain-clothed in order to dissimulate as ordinary. In most countries police officers are given exemptions from certain laws to perform their duties. For example a officer may used force if necessary to arrest or detain a person when it would ordinarily be assault. Officers can also break road rules to perform their duties.\n\nThe word \"police\" comes from the Greek \"politeia\" meaning government, which came to mean its civil administration. Police officers are those empowered by government to enforce the laws it creates. In The Federalist Papers (#51), James Madison wrote \"If men were pure, no government would be necessary.\"These words apply to those who serve government, including police.\n\nThe more general term for the function is law enforcement officer or peace officer. A sheriff is typically the top police officer of a county, with that word coming from the person enforcing law over a shire. A person who has been deputized to serve the function of the sheriff is referred to as the deputy. A common nickname for a police officer is \"cop\". The term \"copper\" is originally used in Britain to mean \"someone who captures\". (In British English the term Cop is recorded (Shorter Oxford Dictionary) in the sense of 'To Capture' from 1704, derived from the Latin 'Capere' via the Old French 'Caper'.) The common myth is that it's a term referring to the police officer's buttons which are made of copper. The term \"County Mountie\" is used specifically in reference to county police officers or county sheriff's deputies in the United States. As with Canadian Mounties, the term \"mountie\" comes from police who serve while mounted on horseback (see cavalry).\n\nResponsibilities of a police officer are varied, and may differ greatly from within one political context to another. Typical duties relate to keeping the peace, law enforcement, protection of people and property and the investigation of crimes. Officers are expected to respond to a variety of situations that may arise while they are on duty. Rules and guidelines dictate how an officer should behave within the community, and in many contexts, restrictions are placed on what the uniformed officer wears. In some countries, rules and procedures dictate that a police officer is obliged to intervene in a criminal incident, even if they are off-duty. Police officers in nearly all countries retain their lawful powers while off duty.\n\nIn the majority of Western legal systems, the major role of the police is to maintain order, keeping the peace through surveillance of the public, and the subsequent reporting and apprehension of suspected violators of the law. They also function to discourage crimes through high-visibility policing, and most police forces have an investigative capability. Police have the legal authority to arrest and detain, usually granted by magistrates. Police officers also respond to emergency calls, along with routine community policing.\n\nPolice are often used as an emergency service and may provide a public safety function at large gatherings, as well as in emergencies, disasters, search and rescue situations, and road traffic collisions. To provide a prompt response in emergencies, the police often coordinate their operations with fire and emergency medical services. In some countries, individuals serve jointly as police officers as well as firefighters (creating the role of fire police). In many countries, there is a common emergency service number that allows the police, firefighters, or medical services to be summoned to an emergency. Some countries, such as the United Kingdom have outlined command procedures, for the use in major emergencies or disorder. The Gold Silver Bronze command structure is a system set up to improve communications between ground-based officers and the control room, typically, Bronze Commander would be a senior officer on the ground, coordinating the efforts in the center of the emergency, Silver Commanders would be positioned in an 'Incident Control Room' erected to improve better communications at the scene, and a Gold Commander who would be in the Control Room.\n\nPolice are also responsible for reprimanding minor offenders by issuing citations which typically may result in the imposition of fines, particularly for violations of traffic law. Traffic enforcement is often and effectively accomplished by police officers on motorcycles—called \"motor officers,\" these officers refer to the motorcycles they ride on duty as simply \"motors.\" Police are also trained to assist persons in distress, such as motorists whose car has broken down and people experiencing a medical emergency. Police are typically trained in basic first aid such as CPR.\n\nSome park rangers are commissioned as law enforcement officers and carry out a law-enforcement role within national parks and other back-country wilderness and recreational areas, whereas Military police perform law enforcement functions within the military.\n\nIn most countries, candidates for the police force must have completed some formal education. Increasing numbers of people are joining the police force who possess tertiary education and in response to this many police forces have developed a \"fast-track\" scheme whereby those with university degrees spend two to three years as a Constable before receiving promotion to higher ranks, such as Sergeants or Inspectors. (Officers who work within investigative divisions or plainclothes are not necessarily of a higher rank but merely have different duties.) Police officers are also recruited from those with experience in the military or security services. In the United States state laws may codify statewide qualification standards regarding age, education, criminal record, and training but in other places requirements are set by local police agencies. Each local Police agency has different requirements.\n\nPromotion is not automatic and usually requires the candidate to pass some kind of examination, interview board or other selection procedure. Although promotion normally includes an increase in salary, it also brings with it an increase in responsibility and for most, an increase in administrative paperwork. There is no stigma attached to this, as experienced line patrol officers are highly regarded.\n\nDependent upon each agency, but generally after completing two years of service, officers may apply for specialist positions, such as detective, police dog handler, mounted police officer, motorcycle officer, water police officer, or firearms officer (in countries where police are not routinely armed).\n\nIn some countries, including Singapore, police ranks are supplemented through conscription, similar to national service in the military. Qualifications may thus be relaxed or enhanced depending on the target mix of conscripts. Conscripts face tougher physical requirements in areas such as eyesight, but minimum academic qualification requirements are less stringent. Some join as volunteers, again via differing qualification requirements.\n\nIn some societies, police officers are paid relatively well compared to other occupations; their pay depends on what rank they are within their police force and how many years they have served.\nIn the United States, a police officer's salary averaged $61,230 in 2015. In the United Kingdom for the year 2015–16 a police officer's average salary was £30,901.\n\nThere are numerous issues affecting the safety and health of police officers, including line of duty deaths and occupational stress.\n\nAlmost universally, police officers are authorized the use of force, up to and including deadly force, when acting in a law enforcement capacity. Although most law enforcement agencies follow some variant of the use of force continuum, where officers are only authorized the level of force required to match situational requirements, specific thresholds and responses vary between jurisdictions. While officers are trained to avoid excessive use of force, and may be held legally accountable for infractions, the variability of law enforcement and its dependence on human judgment have made the subject an area of controversy and research.\n\nIn the performance of their duties, police officers may act unlawfully, either deliberately or as a result of errors in judgment. Police accountability efforts strive to protect citizens and their rights by ensuring legal and effective law enforcement conduct, while affording individual officers the required autonomy, protection, and discretion. As an example, the use of body-worn cameras has been shown to reduce both instances of misconduct and complaints against officers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8238258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8238258", "title": "Qatar", "text": "Qatar\n\nQatar (, , or ; ' ; local vernacular pronunciation: ), officially the State of Qatar ( '), is a country located in Western Asia, occupying the small Qatar Peninsula on the northeastern coast of the Arabian Peninsula. \nWhether the sovereign state should be regarded as a constitutional or an absolute monarchy is disputed. Its sole land border is with neighboring Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) monarchy Saudi Arabia to the south, with the rest of its territory surrounded by the Persian Gulf. An arm of the Persian Gulf separates Qatar from the nearby Bahrain.\n\nIn early 2017, Qatar's total population was 2.6 million: 313,000 Qatari citizens and 2.3 million expatriates. Islam is the official religion of Qatar. The country has the highest per capita income in the world. Qatar is classified by the UN as a country of very high human development and is widely regarded as the most advanced Arab state for human development. Qatar is a high-income economy, backed by the world's third-largest natural gas reserves and oil reserves.\n\nQatar has been ruled by the House of Thani since Mohammed bin Thani signed a treaty with the British in 1868 that recognised its separate status. Following Ottoman rule, Qatar became a British protectorate in the early 20th century until gaining independence in 1971. In 2003, the constitution was overwhelmingly approved in a referendum, with almost 98% in favour. In the 21st century, Qatar emerged as a significant power in the Arab world both through its globally expanding media group, Al Jazeera Media Network and reportedly supporting several rebel groups financially during the Arab Spring. For its size, Qatar wields disproportionate influence in the world, and has been identified as a middle power. Qatar is currently the subject of a diplomatic and economic embargo by Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Bahrain, and Egypt, which began in June 2017.\n\nPliny the Elder, a Roman writer, documented the earliest account pertaining to the inhabitants of the peninsula around the mid-first century AD, referring to them as the \"Catharrei\", a designation which may have derived from the name of a prominent local settlement. A century later, Ptolemy produced the first known map to depict the peninsula, referring to it as \"Catara\". The map also referenced a town named \"Cadara\" to the east of the peninsula. The term 'Catara' (inhabitants, \"Cataraei\") was exclusively used until the 18th century, after which 'Katara' emerged as the most commonly recognised spelling. Eventually, after several variations - 'Katr', 'Kattar' and 'Guttur' - the modern derivative \"Qatar\" was adopted as the country's name.\n\nIn Standard Arabic, the name is pronounced , while in the local dialect it is .\n\nHuman habitation of Qatar dates back to 50,000 years ago. Settlements and tools dating back to the Stone Age have been unearthed in the peninsula. Mesopotamian artefacts originating from the Ubaid period (c. 6500–3800 BC) have been discovered in abandoned coastal settlements. Al Da'asa, a settlement located on the western coast of Qatar, is the most important Ubaid site in the country and is believed to have accommodated a small seasonal encampment.\n\nKassite Babylonian material dating back to the second millennium BC found in Al Khor Islands attests to trade relations between the inhabitants of Qatar and the Kassites in modern-day Bahrain. Among the findings were 3,000,000 crushed snail shells and Kassite potsherds. It has been suggested that Qatar is the earliest known site of shellfish dye production, owing to a Kassite purple dye industry which existed on the coast.\n\nIn 224 AD, the Sasanian Empire gained control over the territories surrounding the Persian Gulf. Qatar played a role in the commercial activity of the Sasanids, contributing at least two commodities: precious pearls and purple dye. Under the Sasanid reign, many of the inhabitants in Eastern Arabia were introduced to Christianity following the eastward dispersal of the religion by Mesopotamian Christians. Monasteries were constructed and further settlements were founded during this era. During the latter part of the Christian era, Qatar comprised a region known as 'Beth Qatraye' (Syriac for \"house of the Qataris\"). The region was not limited to Qatar; it also included Bahrain, Tarout Island, Al-Khatt, and Al-Hasa.\n\nIn 628, Muhammad sent a Muslim envoy to a ruler in Eastern Arabia named Munzir ibn Sawa Al Tamimi and requested that he and his subjects accept Islam. Munzir obliged his request, and accordingly, most of the Arab tribes in the region converted to Islam. After the adoption of Islam, the Arabs led the Muslim conquest of Persia which resulted in the fall of the Sasanian Empire.\n\nQatar was described as a famous horse and camel breeding centre during the Umayyad period. In the 8th century, it started benefiting from its commercially strategic position in the Persian Gulf and went on to become a centre of pearl trading.\n\nSubstantial development in the pearling industry around the Qatari Peninsula occurred during the Abbasid era. Ships voyaging from Basra to India and China would make stops in Qatar's ports during this period. Chinese porcelain, West African coins and artefacts from Thailand have been discovered in Qatar. Archaeological remains from the 9th century suggest that Qatar's inhabitants used greater wealth to construct higher quality homes and public buildings. Over 100 stone-built houses, two mosques, and an Abbasid fort were constructed in Murwab during this period. However, when the caliphate's prosperity declined in Iraq, so too did it in Qatar.\nQatar is mentioned in 13th-century Muslim scholar Yaqut al-Hamawi's book, \"Mu'jam Al-Buldan\", which alludes to the Qataris' fine striped woven cloaks and their skills in improvement and finishing of spears.\n\nMuch of Eastern Arabia was controlled by the Usfurids in 1253, but control of the region was seized by the prince of Ormus in 1320. Qatar's pearls provided the kingdom with one of its main sources of income. In 1515, Manuel I of Portugal vassalised the Kingdom of Ormus. Portugal went on to seize a significant portion of Eastern Arabia in 1521. In 1550, the inhabitants of Al-Hasa voluntarily submitted to the rule of the Ottomans, preferring them to the Portuguese. Having retained a negligible military presence in the area, the Ottomans were expelled by the Bani Khalid tribe in 1670.\n\nIn 1766, the Utub tribe of Al Khalifa migrated from Kuwait to Zubarah in Qatar. By the time of their arrival, the Bani Khalid exercised weak authority over the peninsula, not withholding that the largest village was ruled by a distant kin of the Bani Khalid. In 1783, Qatar-based Bani Utbah clans and allied Arab tribes invaded and annexed Bahrain from the Persians. The Al Khalifa imposed their authority over Bahrain and extended their area of jurisdiction to Qatar.\nFollowing the swearing in of Saud ibn Abd al-Aziz as crown prince of the Wahhabi in 1788, he moved to expand his empire eastward towards the Persian Gulf and Qatar. After defeating the Bani Khalid in 1795, the Wahhabi were attacked on two fronts. The Ottomans and Egyptians assaulted the western front, while the Al Khalifa in Bahrain and the Omanis launched an attack against the eastern front. Upon being made aware of advancements by the Egyptians on the western frontier in 1811, the Wahhabi amir reduced his garrisons in Bahrain and Zubarah in order to re-position his troops. Said bin Sultan of Muscat capitalised on this opportunity and raided the Wahhabi garrisons on the eastern coast, setting fire to the fort in Zubarah. The Al Khalifa were effectively returned to power thereafter.\n\nAs punishment for piracy, an East India Company vessel bombarded Doha in 1821, destroying the town and forcing hundreds of residents to flee. In 1825, the House of Thani was established with Sheikh Mohammed bin Thani as the first leader.\n\nAlthough Qatar had the legal status of a dependency, there was a popular sentiment of resentment against the Al Khalifa. In 1867, the Al Khalifa, along with the ruler of Abu Dhabi, sent a massive naval force to Al Wakrah in an effort to crush the Qatari rebels. This resulted in the maritime Qatari–Bahraini War of 1867–1868, in which Bahraini and Abu Dhabi forces sacked and looted Doha and Al Wakrah. However, the Bahraini hostilities were in violation of the 1820 Anglo-Bahraini Treaty. The joint incursion, in addition to the Qatari counterattack, prompted British political agent Lewis Pelly to impose a settlement in 1868. His mission to Bahrain and Qatar and the resulting peace treaty were milestones because they implicitly recognised the distinctness of Qatar from Bahrain and explicitly acknowledged the position of Mohammed bin Thani. In addition to censuring Bahrain for its breach of agreement, the British protectorate asked to negotiate with a representative from Qatar, a role which Mohammed bin Thani was selected to fulfil. The results of the negotiations left the nation with a new-found sense of political identity, although it did not gain an official standing as a protectorate until 1916.\n\nUnder military and political pressure from the governor of the Ottoman Vilayet of Baghdad, Midhat Pasha, the ruling Al Thani tribe submitted to Ottoman rule in 1871. The Ottoman government imposed reformist (Tanzimat) measures concerning taxation and land registration to fully integrate these areas into the empire. Despite the disapproval of local tribes, Al Thani continued supporting Ottoman rule. However, Qatari-Ottoman relations soon stagnated, and in 1882 they suffered further setbacks when the Ottomans refused to aid Al Thani in his expedition of Abu Dhabi-occupied Khawr al Udayd. In addition, the Ottomans supported the Ottoman subject Mohammed bin Abdul Wahab who attempted to supplant Al Thani as kaymakam of Qatar in 1888. This eventually led Al Thani to rebel against the Ottomans, whom he believed were seeking to usurp control of the peninsula. He resigned as kaymakam and stopped paying taxes in August 1892.\n\nIn February 1893, Mehmed Hafiz Pasha arrived in Qatar in the interests of seeking unpaid taxes and accosting Jassim bin Mohammed's opposition to proposed Ottoman administrative reforms. Fearing that he would face death or imprisonment, Jassim retreated to Al Wajbah (10 miles west of Doha), accompanied by several tribe members. Mehmed's demand that Jassim disband his troops and pledge his loyalty to the Ottomans was met with refusal. In March, Mehmed imprisoned Jassim's brother and 13 prominent Qatari tribal leaders on the Ottoman corvette \"Merrikh\" as punishment for his insubordination. After Mehmed declined an offer to release the captives for a fee of 10,000 liras, he ordered a column of approximately 200 troops to advance towards Jassim's Al Wajbah Fort under the command of Yusuf Effendi, thus signalling the start of the Battle of Al Wajbah.\n\nEffendi's troops came under heavy gunfire by a sizable troop of Qatari infantry and cavalry shortly after arriving to Al Wajbah. They retreated to Shebaka fortress, where they were again forced to draw back from a Qatari incursion. After they withdrew to Al Bidda fortress, Jassim's advancing column besieged the fortress, resulting in the Ottomans' concession of defeat and agreement to relinquish their captives in return for the safe passage of Mehmed Pasha's cavalry to Hofuf by land. Although Qatar did not gain full independence from the Ottoman Empire, the result of the battle forced a treaty that would later form the basis of Qatar's emerging as an autonomous country within the empire.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire fell into disorder after losing battles in different fronts in the Middle Eastern theatre of World War I. Qatar took part in the Arab revolt against the Ottomans. The revolt was successful and Ottoman rule in the country further declined. The United Kingdom and the Ottoman Empire accorded their recognition to Sheikh Abdullah bin Jassim Al Thani and his successors' right to rule over the whole of the Qatari Peninsula. The Ottomans renounced all their rights to Qatar and, following the outbreak of the First World War, Abdullah bin Jassim Al Thani (who was pro-British) forced them to abandon Doha in 1915.\n\nAs a result of the partitioning of the Ottoman Empire, Qatar became a British protectorate on 3 November 1916. On that day, the United Kingdom signed a treaty with Sheikh Abdullah bin Jassim Al Thani to bring Qatar under its Trucial System of Administration. While Abdullah agreed not to enter into any relations with any other power without prior consent of the British government, the British guaranteed the protection of Qatar from all aggression by sea. On 5 May 1935, Abdullah signed another treaty with the British government which granted Qatar protection against internal and external threats. Oil reserves were first discovered in 1939. However, exploitation was delayed by World War II.\n\nThe influence of the British Empire started diminishing after World War II, particularly following the independence of India and creation of Pakistan in 1947. Oil exports began in 1949, and oil revenues became the country's main source of revenue, the pearl trade having gone into decline. These revenues were used to fund the expansion and modernisation of Qatar's infrastructure. When Britain officially announced in 1968 that it would politically disengage from the Persian Gulf in three years' time, Qatar joined talks with Bahrain and seven other Trucial States to create a federation. Regional disputes, however, persuaded Qatar and Bahrain to withdraw from the talks and become independent states separately from the Trucial States, which went on to become the United Arab Emirates.\n\nOn 3 November 1916, the sheikh of Qatar entered into treaty relations with the United Kingdom. The treaty reserved foreign affairs and defence to the United Kingdom but allowed internal autonomy. On 3 September 1971, those \"special treaty arrangements\" that were \"inconsistent with full international responsibility as a sovereign and independent state\" were terminated. This was done under an agreement reached between the Ruler of Qatar and the Government of the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 1991, Qatar played a significant role in the Gulf War, particularly during the Battle of Khafji in which Qatari tanks rolled through the streets of the town and provided fire support for Saudi Arabian National Guard units that were engaging Iraqi Army troops. Qatar allowed coalition troops from Canada to use the country as an airbase to launch aircraft on CAP duty and also permitted air forces from the United States and France to operate in its territories.\n\nIn 1995, Emir Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani seized control of the country from his father Khalifa bin Hamad Al Thani, with the support of the armed forces and cabinet, as well as neighbouring states and France. Under Emir Hamad, Qatar has experienced a moderate degree of liberalisation, including the launch of the Al Jazeera television station (1996), the endorsement of women's suffrage or right to vote in municipal elections (1999), drafting its first written constitution (2005) and inauguration of a Roman Catholic church (2008). In 2010, Qatar won the rights to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup, making it the first country in the Middle East to be selected to host the tournament. The Emir announced Qatar's plans to hold its first national legislative elections in 2013. They were scheduled to be held in the second half of 2013, but were postponed in June 2013 and may be delayed until 2019.\n\nIn 2003, Qatar served as the US Central Command headquarters and one of the main launching sites of the invasion of Iraq. In March 2005, a suicide bombing killed a British teacher at the Doha Players Theatre, shocking the country, which had not previously experienced acts of terrorism. The bombing was carried out by Omar Ahmed Abdullah Ali, an Egyptian resident in Qatar who had suspected ties to Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. In 2011, Qatar joined NATO operations in Libya and reportedly armed Libyan opposition groups. It is also currently a major funder of weapons for rebel groups in the Syrian civil war. Qatar is pursuing an Afghan peace deal and in January 2012 the Afghan Taliban said they were setting up a political office in Qatar to facilitate talks. This was done in order to facilitate peace negotiations and with the support of other countries including the United States and Afghanistan. Ahmed Rashid, writing in the \"Financial Times\", stated that through the office Qatar has \"facilitated meetings between the Taliban and many countries and organisations, including the US state department, the UN, Japan, several European governments and non-governmental organisations, all of whom have been trying to push forward the idea of peace talks. Suggestions in September 2017 by the presidents of both the United States and Afghanistan have reportedly led to protests from senior officials of the American State Department.\n\nIn June 2013, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani became the Emir of Qatar after his father handed over power in a televised speech. Sheikh Tamim has prioritised improving the domestic welfare of citizens, which includes establishing advanced healthcare and education systems, and expanding the country's infrastructure in preparation for the hosting of the 2022 World Cup.\n\nQatar participated in the Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen against the Houthis and forces loyal to former President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who was deposed in the 2011 Arab Spring uprisings.\n\nThe increased influence of Qatar and its role during the Arab Spring, especially during the Bahraini uprising in 2011, worsened longstanding tensions with Saudi Arabia, the neighboring United Arab Emirates (UAE), and Bahrain. In June 2017, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, and Bahrain cut off diplomatic relations with Qatar, citing the country's alleged support of groups they considered to be extremist. This has resulted in increased Qatari economic and military ties with Turkey and Iran.\n\nMoreover, in June 2017, those three countries and Egypt accused it of supporting and funding terrorism and manipulating internal affairs of its neighboring states.\n\nQatar is expected to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup from 21 November to 18 December, becoming the first Arab country to do so.\n\nQatar is either a constitutional or an absolute monarchy ruled by the Al Thani family. The Al Thani dynasty has been ruling Qatar since the family house was established in 1825. In 2003, Qatar adopted a constitution that provided for the direct election of 30 of the 45 members of the Legislative Council. The constitution was overwhelmingly approved in a referendum, with almost 98% in favour.\n\nThe eighth Emir of Qatar is Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, whose father Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani handed power to him on 25 June 2013. The supreme chancellor has the exclusive power to appoint and remove the prime minister and cabinet ministers who, together, constitute the Council of Ministers, which is the supreme executive authority in the country. The Council of Ministers also initiates legislation. Laws and decrees proposed by the Council of Ministers are referred to the Advisory Council (Majilis Al Shura) for discussion after which they are submitted to the Emir for ratification. A Consultative Assembly has limited legislative authority to draft and approve laws, but the Emir has final say on all matters. The current Council is composed entirely of members appointed by the Emir, as no legislative elections have been held since 1970 when there were partial elections to the body. Legislative elections have been postponed until at least 2019.\n\nQatari law does not permit the establishment of political bodies or trade unions.\n\nAccording to Qatar's Constitution, Sharia law is the main source of Qatari legislation, although in practice, Qatar's legal system is a mixture of civil law and Sharia law. Sharia law is applied to family law, inheritance, and several criminal acts (including adultery, robbery and murder). In some cases, Sharia-based family courts treat a female's testimony as being worth half that of a man. Codified family law was introduced in 2006. Islamic polygyny is permitted.\n\nJudicial corporal punishment is common in Qatar due to the Wahhabi interpretation of Sharia Law, although in Qatar it had originally been a Hanbali school of mainstream Sunnism. Flogging is employed as a punishment for alcohol consumption or illicit sexual relations. Article 88 of Qatar's criminal code declares that the penalty for adultery is 100 lashes, and in 2006, a Filipino woman received that punishment. In 2010, at least 18 people (mostly foreign nationals) were sentenced to receive between 40 and 100 lashes for offences involving \"illicit sexual relations\" or alcohol consumption. In 2011, at least 21 people (mostly foreign nationals) were sentenced to between 30 and 100 lashes for the same reasons, and in 2012, six expatriates were sentenced to either 40 or 100 lashes. Only Muslims considered medically fit are liable to have such sentences carried out. It is unknown if the sentences were implemented. In April 2013, a Muslim expatriate was sentenced to 40 lashes for alcohol consumption, and in June 2014, a Muslim expatriate was sentenced to 40 lashes for consuming alcohol and driving under the influence.\nStoning is a legal punishment in Qatar, and apostasy and homosexuality are crimes punishable by the death penalty. Blasphemy can result in up to seven years in prison, while proselytising can incur a 10-year sentence.\n\nAlcohol consumption is partially legal in Qatar; some five-star luxury hotels are allowed to sell alcohol to their non-Muslim customers. Muslims are not allowed to consume alcohol, and those caught consuming it are liable to flogging or deportation. Non-Muslim expatriates can obtain a permit to purchase alcohol for personal consumption. The Qatar Distribution Company (a subsidiary of Qatar Airways) is permitted to import alcohol and pork; it operates the one and only liquor store in the country, which also sells pork to holders of liquor licences. Qatari officials have also indicated a willingness to allow alcohol in \"fan zones\" at the 2022 FIFA World Cup.\n\nUntil 2011, restaurants on the Pearl-Qatar (a man-made island near Doha) were allowed to serve alcoholic drinks. In December 2011, however, Pearl restaurants were told to stop selling alcohol. No explanation was given for the ban, though speculation included encouraging a more pious image before a significant election and rumours of a financial dispute between the government and resort developers. The alcohol ban was later lifted.\n\nIn 2014, a modesty campaign was launched to remind tourists of the country's restrictive dress code. Female tourists were advised not to wear leggings, miniskirts, sleeveless dresses, or short or tight clothing in public. Men were warned against wearing only shorts and singlets.\n\nAccording to the U.S. State Department, expatriate workers from nations throughout Asia and parts of Africa voluntarily migrate to Qatar as low-skilled labourers or domestic servants, but some subsequently face conditions indicative of involuntary servitude. Some of the more common labour rights violations include beatings, withholding of payment, charging workers for benefits for which the employer is responsible, restrictions on freedom of movement (such as the confiscation of passports, travel documents, or exit permits), arbitrary detention, threats of legal action, and sexual assault. Many migrant workers arriving for work in Qatar have paid exorbitant fees to recruiters in their home countries.\n\n, certain provisions of the Qatari Criminal Code allows punishments such as flogging and stoning to be imposed as criminal sanctions. The UN Committee Against Torture found that these practices constituted a breach of the obligations imposed by the UN Convention Against Torture. Qatar retains the death penalty, mainly for threats against national security such as terrorism. Use of the death penalty is rare and no state executions have taken place in Qatar since 2003. In Qatar, homosexual acts are illegal and can be punished by death.\n\nUnder the provisions of Qatar's sponsorship law, sponsors have the unilateral power to cancel workers' residency permits, deny workers' ability to change employers, report a worker as \"absconded\" to police authorities, and deny permission to leave the country. As a result, sponsors may restrict workers' movements and workers may be afraid to report abuses or claim their rights. According to the ITUC, the visa sponsorship system allows the exaction of forced labour by making it difficult for a migrant worker to leave an abusive employer or travel overseas without permission. Qatar also does not maintain wage standards for its immigrant labourers. Qatar commissioned international law firm DLA Piper to produce a report investigating the immigrant labour system. In May 2014 DLA Piper released over 60 recommendations for reforming the kafala system including the abolition of exit visas and the introduction of a minimum wage which Qatar has pledged to implement.\n\nIn May 2012, Qatari officials declared their intention to allow the establishment of an independent trade union. Qatar also announced it will scrap its sponsor system for foreign labour, which requires that all foreign workers be sponsored by local employers. Additional changes to labour laws include a provision guaranteeing that all workers' salaries are paid directly into their bank accounts and new restrictions on working outdoors in the hottest hours during the summer. New draft legislation announced in early 2015 mandates that companies that fail to pay workers' wages on time could temporarily lose their ability to hire more employees.\n\nIn October 2015 Qatar's Emir signed into law new reforms to the country's sponsorship system, with the new law taking effect within one year. Critics claim that the changes could fail to address some labour rights issues.\n\nThe country enfranchised women at the same time as men in connection with the 1999 elections for a Central Municipal Council. These elections—the first ever in Qatar—were deliberately held on 8 March 1999, International Women's Day.\n\nAs a small country with larger neighbours, Qatar seeks to project influence and protect its state and ruling dynasty. The history of Qatar's alliances provides insight into the basis of their policy. Between 1760 and 1971, Qatar sought formal protection from the high transitory powers of the Ottomans, British, the Al-Khalifas from Bahrain, the Arabians, and the Wahhabis from Saudi Arabia. Qatar's rising international profile and active role in international affairs has led some analysts to identify it as a middle power. Qatar was an early member of OPEC and a founding member of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). It is a member of the Arab League. The country has not accepted compulsory International Court of Justice jurisdiction.\nQatar also has bilateral relationships with a variety of foreign powers. Qatar is a strategic ally of China, with relationship between the two countries growing stronger. It also hosts the Al Udeid Air Base, a joint U.S.-British base, which acts as the hub for all American and British air operations in the Persian Gulf. It has allowed American and British forces to use an air base to send supplies to Iraq and Afghanistan. According to leaked documents published in \"The New York Times\", Qatar's record of counter-terrorism efforts was the \"worst in the region\". The cable suggested that Qatar's security service was \"hesitant to act against known terrorists out of concern for appearing to be aligned with the U.S. and provoking reprisals\".\n\nQatar has mixed relations with its neighbours in the Persian Gulf region. Qatar signed a defence co-operation agreement with Iran, with whom it shares the largest single non-associated gas field in the world. It was the second nation, the first being France, to have publicly announced its recognition of the Libyan opposition's National Transitional Council as the legitimate government of Libya amidst the 2011 Libyan civil war.\n\nIn 2014, Qatar's relations with Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates came to a boiling point over Qatar's support for the Muslim Brotherhood and reportedly funding extremist groups in Syria.\nThis culminated in the three aforementioned countries withdrawing their ambassadors from Qatar in March 2014. Qatar was also involved in the CIA-led Timber Sycamore covert operation to train and arm Syrian rebels.\nIn recent years, Qatar has been using Islamist militants in a number of countries including Egypt, Syria, Libya, Somalia and Mali to further its foreign policy. Courting Islamists from the Muslim Brotherhood to Salafist groups has served as a power amplifier for the country, as it believes since the beginning of the Arab Spring that these groups represented the wave of the future. David Cohen, the Under Secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence at the U.S. Treasury, said that Qatar is a \"permissive jurisdiction for terrorist financing.\" There is evidence that these groups supported by Qatar include the hard-line Islamic militant groups active in northern Syria. , Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Turkey are openly backing the Army of Conquest, an umbrella group of anti-government forces fighting in the Syrian Civil War that reportedly includes an al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front and another Salafi coalition known as Ahrar ash-Sham.\n\nQatar supported the democratically elected President Mohamed Morsi with diplomatic support and the state-owned Al Jazeera network before he was deposed in a military coup led by Abdel Fattah el-Sisi. Qatar offered Egypt a $7.5 billion loan during the year he was in power.\n\nQatar's alignment with Hamas, first reported in early 2012, has drawn criticism from Israel, the United States, Egypt and Saudi Arabia, \"who accuse Qatar of undermining regional stability by supporting Hamas.\" However, the Foreign Minister of Qatar has denied supporting Hamas and corrected their alleged claims, stating \"We do not support Hamas but we support the Palestinians.\" Following a peace agreement, Qatar pledged $1 billion in humanitarian aid to Gaza.\nQatar has hosted academic, religious, political, and economic conferences. The 11th annual Doha Forum recently brought in key thinkers, professionals of various backgrounds, and political figures from all over the world to discuss democracy, media and information technology, free trade, and water security issues. In addition, the forum has featured the Middle East Economic Future conference since 2006. In more recent times, Qatar has hosted peace talks between rival factions across the globe. Notable among these include the Darfur Agreement. The Doha Declaration is the basis of the peace process in Darfur and it has achieved significant gains on the ground for the African region. Notable achievements included the restoration of security and stability, progress made in construction and reconstruction processes, return of displaced residents and uniting of Darfur people to face challenges and push forward the peace process. Qatar donated £88.5million in funds to finance recovery and reconstruction in Darfur.\n\nIn June 2017, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Bahrain, Egypt and Yemen broke diplomatic ties with Qatar, accusing Qatar of supporting terrorism, escalating a dispute over Qatar’s support of the Muslim Brotherhood, considered a terrorist organization by those 5 Arab nations. Saudi Arabia explained the move to be a necessary measure in protecting the kingdom's security. Qatari troops were also removed from the military coalition in Yemen. Egypt closed its airspace and seaports to all Qatari transportation.\n\nIn June 2018, Saudi Arabia announced a bid to construct a waterway, Salwa Canal, on their border with Qatar which shall in effect turn the latter into an island country.\n\nThe Qatar Armed Forces are the military forces of Qatar. The country maintains a modest military force of approximately 11,800 men, including an army (8,500), navy (1,800) and air force (1,500). Qatar's defense expenditures accounted for approximately 4.2% of gross national product in 1993, and 1.5% of gross domestic product in 2010, the most recent year available in the SIPRI statistical database. Qatar has recently signed defense pacts with the United States and United Kingdom, as well as with France earlier in 1994. Qatar plays an active role in the collective defense efforts of the Gulf Cooperation Council; the other five members are Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, the UAE, and Oman. The presence of the large Al Udeid Air Base, operated by the United States and several other UN nations, provides a guaranteed source of defense and national security. In 2008 Qatar spent US$2.3 billion on military expenditures, 2.3% of the gross domestic product. Qatari special forces have been trained by France and other Western countries, and are believed to possess considerable skill. They also helped the Libyan rebels during the 2011 Battle of Tripoli.\nThe Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) found that in 2010–14 Qatar was the 46th-largest arms importer in the world. However, SIPRI writes, Qatar's plans to transform and significantly enlarge its armed forces have accelerated. Orders in 2013 for 62 tanks and 24 self-propelled guns from Germany were followed in 2014 by a number of other contracts, including 24 combat helicopters and 3 early-warning-and-control aircraft from the US, and 2 tanker aircraft from Spain. In 2015, Qatar was the 16th largest arms importer in the world, and in 2016, it was the 11th largest, according to SIPRI.\n\nQatar's military participated in the Saudi Arabian–led intervention in Yemen against the Shia Houthis. In 2015, \"Al Jazeera America\" reported: \"Numerous reports suggest that the Saudi-led coalition against opposition groups in Yemen has indiscriminately attacked civilians and used cluster bombs in civilian-populated areas, in violation of international law.\" Many civilians have been killed and the large parts of the infrastructure in this region is now destroyed. Hospitals have also been bombed by the Saudis and those operating with them. Qatar was suspended from the coalition in Yemen due to the 2017 Qatar diplomatic crisis.\n\nSince 2014, Qatar has been divided into eight municipalities (Arabic: baladiyah).\n\n\nFor statistical purposes, the municipalities are further subdivided into 98 zones (), which are in turn subdivided into blocks.\n\nThe Qatari peninsula protrudes into the Persian Gulf, north of Saudi Arabia. It lies between latitudes 24° and 27° N, and longitudes 50° and 52° E. Most of the country consists of a low, barren plain, covered with sand. To the southeast lies the Khor al Adaid (\"Inland Sea\"), an area of rolling sand dunes surrounding an inlet of the Persian Gulf. There are mild winters and very hot, humid summers.\n\nThe highest point in Qatar is Qurayn Abu al Bawl at in the Jebel Dukhan to the west, a range of low limestone outcroppings running north-south from Zikrit through Umm Bab to the southern border. The Jebel Dukhan area also contains Qatar's main onshore oil deposits, while the natural gas fields lie offshore, to the northwest of the peninsula.\n\nQatar signed the Rio Convention on Biological Diversity on 11 June 1992, and became a party to the convention on 21 August 1996. It has subsequently produced a National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, which was received by the convention on 18 May 2005. A total of 142 fungal species have been recorded from Qatar. A book recently produced by the Ministry of Environment documents the lizards known or believed to occur in Qatar, based on surveys conducted by an international team of scientists and other collaborators.\n\nFor two decades, Qatar has had the highest per-capita carbon dioxide emissions in the world, at 49.1 metric tons per person in 2008. Qataris are also some of the highest consumers of water per capita per day, using around 400 litres.\n\nIn 2008 Qatar launched its National Vision 2030 which highlights environmental development as one of the four main goals for Qatar over the next two decades. The National Vision pledges to develop sustainable alternatives to oil-based energy to preserve the local and global environment.\n\nBefore the discovery of oil, the economy of the Qatari region focused on fishing and pearl hunting. A report prepared by local governors of Ottoman Empire in 1892 states that total income from pearl hunting in 1892 is 2,450,000 kran. After the introduction of the Japanese cultured pearl onto the world market in the 1920s and 1930s, Qatar's pearling industry crashed. Oil was discovered in Qatar in 1940, in Dukhan Field. The discovery transformed the state's economy. Now, the country has a high standard of living for its legal citizens. With no income tax, Qatar (along with Bahrain) is one of the countries with the lowest tax rates in the world. The unemployment rate in June 2013 was 0.1%. Corporate law mandates that Qatari nationals must hold 51% of any venture in the Emirate.\n\n, Qatar has the fourth highest GDP per capita in the world, according to the International Monetary Fund. It relies heavily on foreign labor to grow its economy, to the extent that migrant workers compose 86% of the population and 94% of the workforce. Qatar has been criticized by the International Trade Union Confederation. The economic growth of Qatar has been almost exclusively based on its petroleum and natural gas industries, which began in 1940. Qatar is the leading exporter of liquefied natural gas. In 2012, it was estimated that Qatar would invest over $120 billion in the energy sector in the next ten years. The country is a member state of Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), having joined in 1961.\n\nIn 2012, Qatar retained its title of richest country in the world (according to per capita income) for the third time in a row, having first overtaken Luxembourg in 2010. According to the study published by the Washington-based Institute of International Finance, Qatar's per capita GDP at purchasing power parity (PPP) was $106,000 (QR387,000) in 2012, helping the country retain its ranking as the world's wealthiest nation. Luxembourg came a distant second with nearly $80,000 and Singapore third with per capita income of about $61,000. The research put Qatar's GDP at $182bn in 2012 and said it had climbed to an all-time high due to soaring gas exports and high oil prices. Its population stood at 1.8 million in 2012. The same study published that Qatar Investment Authority (QIA), with assets of $115bn, was ranked 12th among the richest sovereign wealth funds in the world.\nEstablished in 2005, Qatar Investment Authority is the country's sovereign wealth fund, specializing in foreign investment. Due to billions of dollars in surpluses from the oil and gas industry, the Qatari government has directed investments into United States, Europe, and Asia Pacific. , the holdings were valued at $100 billion in assets. Qatar Holding is the international investment arm of QIA. Since 2009, Qatar Holding has received $30–40bn a year from the state. , it has investments around the world in Valentino, Siemens, Printemps, Harrods, The Shard, Barclays Bank, Heathrow Airport, Paris Saint-Germain F.C., Volkswagen Group, Royal Dutch Shell, Bank of America, Tiffany, Agricultural Bank of China, Sainsbury's, BlackBerry, and Santander Brasil.\n\nThe country has no taxes, but authorities have announced plans to levy taxes on junk food and luxury items. The taxes would be implemented on goods that harm the human body – for example fast food, tobacco products, and soft drinks. The rollout of these initial taxes is believed to be due to the fall in oil prices and a deficit that the country faced in 2016. Additionally, the country has seen job cuts in 2016 from its petroleum companies and other sectors in the government.\n\n, Qatar has proven oil reserves of 15 billion barrels and gas fields that account for more than 13% of the global resource. As a result, it is the richest state per-capita in the world. None of its 2 million residents live below the poverty line and less than 1% are unemployed.\n\nQatar's economy was in a downturn from 1982 to 1989. OPEC quotas on crude oil production, the lower price for oil, and the generally unpromising outlook on international markets reduced oil earnings. In turn, the Qatari government's spending plans had to be cut to match lower income. The resulting recessionary local business climate caused many firms to lay off expatriate staff. With the economy recovering in the 1990s, expatriate populations, particularly from Egypt and South Asia, have grown again.\n\nOil production will not remain at the peak level of 500,000 barrels (80,000 m³) per day for long as the national oil fields are projected to be largely depleted by 2023. However, large natural gas reserves have been located off Qatar's northeast coast. Qatar's proved reserves of gas are the third-largest in the world, exceeding 250 trillion cubic feet (7,000 km³). The economy was boosted in 1991 by completion of the $1.5-billion Phase I of North Field gas development. In 1996, the Qatargas project began exporting liquefied natural gas (LNG) to Japan. Further phases of North Field gas development costing billions of dollars are in various stages of planning and development.\n\nQatar's heavy industrial projects, all based in Umm Said, include a refinery with a 50,000 barrels (8,000 m³) per day capacity, a fertiliser plant for urea and ammonia, a steel plant, and a petrochemical plant. All these industries use gas for fuel. Most are joint ventures between European and Japanese firms and the state-owned Qatar General Petroleum Corporation (QGPC). The US is the major equipment supplier for Qatar's oil and gas industry, and US companies are playing a major role in North Field gas development.\n\nQatar's National Vision 2030 has made investment in renewable resources a major goal for the country over the next two decades. Qatar pursues a vigorous programme of \"Qatarisation\", under which all joint venture industries and government departments strive to move Qatari nationals into positions of greater authority. Growing numbers of foreign-educated Qataris, including many educated in the US, are returning home to assume key positions formerly occupied by expatriates. To control the influx of expatriate workers, Qatar has tightened the administration of its foreign manpower programmes over the past several years. Security is the principal basis for Qatar's strict entry and immigration rules and regulations.\n\nWith a fast-expanding population and substantial economic growth over the past decade, a reliable and extensive transportation network is becoming increasingly necessary within Qatar. So far the government, the primary transport developer, has done well in terms of keeping up with demand for new transportation options. In 2008 the Public Works Authority (Ashghal), one of the bodies that oversees infrastructure development, underwent a major reorganisation in order to streamline and modernise the authority in preparation for major project expansions across all segments in the near future. Ashghal works in tandem with the Urban Planning and Development Authority (UPDA), the body that designed the transportation master plan, instituted in March 2006 and running to 2025.\n\nAs driving is the primary mode of transport in Qatar, the road network is a major focus of the plan. Project highlights in this segment include the multibillion-dollar Doha Expressway and the Qatar Bahrain Causeway, which will connect Qatar to Bahrain and Saudi Arabia and is considered a milestone in regional interconnectivity. \n\nMass-transit options, such as a Doha metro, light-rail system and more extensive bus networks, are also under development to ease road congestion. In addition, the railway system is being significantly expanded and could eventually form an integral part of a GCC-wide network linking all the Arab states of the Persian Gulf. The airport, too, is expanding capacity to keep up with rising visitor numbers.\n\nHamad International Airport is the international airport of Doha. In 2014 replaced the former Doha International Airport as Qatar's principal airport. In 2016, the airport was named the 50th busiest airport in the world by passenger traffic, serving 37,283,987 passengers, a 20.2% increase from 2015.\n\nHamad Port is Qatar's main seaport, located south of Doha in the Umm Al-Houl area. Construction of the port began in 2010; it became operational in December 2016. It was officially opened in September 2017, and is expected to become fully operational by 2020. Capable of handling up to 7.8 million tonnes of products annually, the bulk of trade which passes through the port consists of food and building materials. On the northern coast, Ras Laffan Port serves as the most extensive LNG exporting facility in the world.\n\nThe number of people in Qatar fluctuates considerably depending on the season, since the country relies heavily on migrant labour. In early 2017, Qatar's total population was 2.6 million, with non-Arab foreigners making up a vast majority of Qatar's population. Only 313,000 of the population (12%) were Qatari citizens, while the remaining 2.3 million (88%) were expatriates.\n\nThe combined number of South Asians (from the countries of the Indian subcontinent including Sri Lanka) by themselves represent over 1.5 million people (60%) of Qatar’s population. Among these, Indians are the largest community, numbering 650,000 in 2017, followed by 350,000 Nepalis, 280,000 Bangladeshis, 145,000 Sri Lankans, and 125,000 Pakistanis. The contingent of expatriates which are not of South Asian origin represent around 28% of Qatar’s population, of which the largest group is 260,000 Filipinos and 200,000 Egyptians, plus many other nationalities (including nationals of other Arab countries, Europeans, etc.).\nQatar's first demographic records date back to 1892, and were conducted by Ottoman governors in the region. Based on this census, which includes only the residents in cities, the total population in 1892 was 9,830.\n\nThe 2010 census recorded the total population at 1,699,435. In January 2013, the Qatar Statistics Authority estimated the country's population at 1,903,447, of which 1,405,164 were males and 498,283 females. At the time of the first census, held in 1970, the population was 111,133. The population has tripled in the decade to 2011, up from just over 600,000 people in 2001, leaving Qatari nationals as less than 15% of the total population. The influx of male labourers has skewed the gender balance, and women are now just one-quarter of the population.\n\nProjections released by Qatar Statistical Authority indicates that the total population of Qatar could reach 2.8 million by 2020. Qatar's National Development Strategy (2011–16) had estimated that the country's population would reach 1.78m in 2013, 1.81m in 2014, 1.84m in 2015 and 1.86m in 2016 – the yearly growth rate being merely 2.1%. But the country's population has soared to 1.83 million by the end of 2012, showing 7.5% growth over the previous year. Qatar's total population hit a record high of 2.46 million in November 2015, an increase of 8.5% from the previous year, far exceeding official projections.\n\nIslam is Qatar's predominant religion and is the official status although not the only religion practiced in the country. Most Qatari citizens belong to the Salafi Muslim movement of Wahhabism, and between 5–15% of Muslims in Qatar follow Shia Islam with other Muslims sects being very small in number. In 2010, Qatar's population was 67.7% Muslim, 13.8% Christian, 13.8% Hindu, and 3.1% Buddhist; other religions and religiously unaffiliated people accounted for the remaining 1.6%. Sharia law is the main source of Qatari legislation according to Qatar's Constitution.\n\nThe Christian population is composed almost entirely of foreigners. Since 2008, Christians have been allowed to build churches on ground donated by the government, though foreign missionary activity is officially discouraged. Active churches include the Mar Thoma Church, Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, the Roman Catholic Church of Our Lady of the Rosary and the Anglican Church of the Epiphany. There are also two Mormon wards.\n\nArabic is the official language of Qatar, with Qatari Arabic the local dialect. Qatari Sign Language is the language of the deaf community. English is commonly used as a second language, and a rising lingua franca, especially in commerce, to the extent that steps are being taken to try to preserve Arabic from English's encroachment. English is particularly useful for communication with Qatar's large expatriate community. Reflecting the multicultural make-up of the country, many other languages are also spoken, including Persian, Baluchi, Brahui, Hindi, Malayalam, Urdu, Pashto, Kannada, Tamil, Telugu, Nepali, Sinhalese, Bengali, Tagalog, and Bahasa Indonesia.\n\nIn 2012, Qatar joined the international French-speaking organisation of La Francophonie (OIF) as a new associate member. However, in December 2013, the French daily \"Le Monde\" revealed that Qatar, which has very few native French speakers, had not yet paid any contribution to the OIF, while the outgoing Administrator of the OIF complained in 2015 that Qatar had not kept any of the promises it made when it joined the organisation and had never paid its annual membership fees.\n\nQatar's culture is similar to other countries in Eastern Arabia, being significantly influenced by Islam. Qatar National Day, hosted annually on 18 December, has had an important role in developing a sense of national identity. It is observed in remembrance of Jassim bin Mohammed Al Thani's succession to the throne and his subsequent unification of the country's various tribes. Since 1 July 2008, Hamad Bin Abdulaziz Al-Kawari has been the Minister for Culture, Arts and Heritage of Qatar.\n\nSeveral senior members of Qatar's ruling Al Thani family are noted collectors of Islamic and contemporary art.\n\nThe Museum of Islamic Art, opened in 2008, is regarded as one of the best museums in the region. This, and several other Qatari museums, like the , falls under the Qatar Museums Authority (\"QMA\") which is led by Sheikha Al-Mayassa bint Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, the sister of the ruling Emir of the State of Qatar, and the prominent collector and art patron Sheikh Hassan bin Mohammed Al Thani. The QMA also sponsors artistic events abroad, such as major exhibitions by Takahashi Murakami in Versailles (2010) and Damien Hirst in London (2012).\n\nQatar is the world's biggest buyer in the art market by value. The Qatari cultural sector is being developed to enable the country to reach world recognition to contribute to the development of a country that comes mainly from its resources from the gas industry.\n\nThe National Museum of Qatar is currently under construction, located across from the Corniche in the Qatari capital Doha. It was originally scheduled to open in 2016 but its opening was pushed back to 28 March 2019.\n\nQatari literature traces its origins back to the 19th century. Originally, written poetry was the most common form of expression. Abdul Jalil Al-Tabatabai and Mohammed bin Abdullah bin Uthaymeen, two poets dating back to the early 19th century, formed the corpus of Qatar's earliest written poetry. Poetry later fell out of favor after Qatar began reaping the profits from oil exports in the mid-20th century and many Qataris abandoned their Bedouin traditions in favor of more urban lifestyles.\n\nDue to the increasing number of Qataris who began receiving formal education during the 1950s and other significant societal changes, 1970 witnessed the introduction of the first short story anthology, and in 1993 the first locally authored novels were published. Poetry, particularly the predominant nabati form, retained some importance but would soon be overshadowed by other literary types. Unlike most other forms of art in Qatari society, females have been involved in the modern literature movement on a similar magnititude to males.\n\nQatar's media was classified as \"not free\" in the 2014 Freedom of the Press report by Freedom House. TV broadcasting in Qatar was started in 1970. Al Jazeera is a main television network headquartered in Doha, Qatar. Al Jazeera initially launched in 1996 as an Arabic news and current affairs satellite TV channel of the same name, but has since expanded into a global network of several speciality TV channels known collectively as the Al Jazeera Media Network.\n\nIt has been reported that journalists practice self-censorship, particularly in regards to the government and ruling family of Qatar. Criticism of the government, Emir and ruling family in the media is illegal. According to article 46 of the press law \"The Emir of the state of Qatar shall not be criticised and no statement can be attributed to him unless under a written permission from the manager of his office.\" Journalists are also subject to prosecution for insulting Islam.\n\nIn 2014, a Cybercrime Prevention Law was passed. The law is said to restrict press freedom, and carries prison sentences and fines for broad reasons such as jeopardising local peace or publishing false news. The Gulf Center for Human Rights has stated that the law is a threat to freedom of speech and has called for certain articles of the law to be revoked.\n\nPress media has undergone expansion in recent years. There are currently seven newspapers in circulation in Qatar, with four being published in Arabic and three being published in English. There are also newspapers from India, Nepal and Sri Lanka with editions printed from Qatar.\n\nIn regards to telecommunication infrastructure, Qatar is the highest ranked Middle Eastern country in the World Economic Forum's Network Readiness Index (NRI) – an indicator for determining the development level of a country's information and communication technologies. Qatar ranked number 23 overall in the 2014 NRI ranking, unchanged from 2013.\n\nThe music of Qatar is based on Bedouin poetry, song and dance. Traditional dances in Doha are performed on Friday afternoons; one such dance is the Ardah, a stylised martial dance performed by two rows of dancers who are accompanied by an array of percussion instruments, including al-ras (a large drum whose leather is heated by an open fire), tambourines and cymbals with small drums. Other percussion instruments used in folk music include \"galahs\" (a tall clay jar) and tin drinking cups known as \"tus\" or \"tasat\", usually used in conjunction with a \"tabl\", a longitudinal drum beaten with a stick. String instruments, such as the oud and rebaba, are also commonly used.\n\nAssociation football is the most popular sport in Qatar, both in terms of players and spectators. The Qatar national under-20 team finished runners-up to West Germany in the 1981 FIFA World Youth Championship after a 4–0 defeat in the final. In January 2011, the Asian Football Confederation's fifteenth Asian Cup was held in Qatar. It was the second time Qatar had hosted the tournament, with the other instance being the 1988 edition.\n\nOn 2 December 2010, Qatar won their bid to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup, despite never previously qualifying for the FIFA World Cup Finals. Local organisers are planning to build 9 new stadiums and expand 3 existing stadiums for this event. Qatar's winning bid for the 2022 World Cup was greeted enthusiastically in the Persian Gulf region as it was the first time a country in the Middle East had been selected to host the tournament. However, the bid has been embroiled in much controversy, including allegations of bribery and interference in the investigation of the alleged bribery. European football associations have also objected to the 2022 World Cup being held in Qatar for a variety of reasons, from the impact of warm temperatures on players' fitness, to the disruption it might cause in European domestic league calendars should the event be rescheduled to take place during winter. In May 2014, Qatari football official Mohammed bin Hammam was accused of making payments totalling £3m to officials in return for their support for the Qatar bid. However, a FIFA inquiry into the bidding process in November 2014 cleared Qatar of any wrongdoing.\n\"The Guardian\", a British national daily newspaper, produced a short documentary named \"Abuse and exploitation of migrant workers preparing emirate for 2022\". A 2014 investigation by The Guardian reports that migrant workers who have been constructing luxurious offices for the organisers of the 2022 World Cup have not been paid in over a year, and are now \"working illegally from cockroach-infested lodgings.\" For 2014, Nepalese migrants involved in constructing infrastructure for the 2022 World Cup died at a rate of one every two days. The Qatar 2022 organising committee have responded to various allegations by claiming that hosting the World Cup in Qatar would act as a \"catalyst for change\" in the region.\n\nThough football is the most popular sport, other team sports have experienced considerable success at senior level. In 2015, the national handball team emerged as runners-up to France in the World Men's Handball Championship as hosts, however the tournament was marred by numerous controversies regarding the host nation and its team. Further, in 2014, Qatar won the world championship in men's 3x3 basketball.\n\nKhalifa International Tennis and Squash Complex in Doha hosted the WTA Tour Championships in women's tennis between 2008 and 2010. Doha holds the WTA Premier tournament Qatar Ladies Open annually. Since 2002, Qatar has hosted the annual Tour of Qatar, a cycling race in six stages. Every February, riders are racing on the roads across Qatar's flat land for six days. Each stage covers a distance of more than 100 km, though the time trial usually is a shorter distance. Tour of Qatar is organised by the Qatar Cycling Federation for professional riders in the category of Elite Men.\n\nThe Qatar Army Skydiving Team has several different skydiving disciplines placing among the top nations in the world. The Qatar National Parachute team performs annually during Qatar's National Day and at other large events, such as the 2015 World Handball Championship.\nDoha four times was the host of the official FIVB Volleyball Men's Club World Championship and three times host FIVB Volleyball Women's Club World Championship. Doha one time Host Asian Volleyball Championship.\n\nQatar hired the RAND Corporation to reform its K–12 education system. Through Qatar Foundation, the country has built Education City, a campus which hosts local branches of the Weill Cornell Medical College, Carnegie Mellon School of Computer Science, Georgetown University School of Foreign Service, Northwestern's Medill School of Journalism, Texas A&M's School of Engineering, Virginia Commonwealth University School of the Arts and other Western institutions.\n\nThe illiteracy rate in Qatar was 3.1% for males and 4.2% for females in 2012, the lowest in the Arab-speaking world, but 86th in the world. Citizens are required to attend government-provided education from kindergarten through high school. Qatar University, founded in 1973, is the country's oldest and largest institution of higher education.\n\nIn November 2002, emir Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani created The Supreme Education Council. The Council directs and controls education for all ages from the pre-school level through the university level, including the \"Education for a New Era\" initiative which was established to try to position Qatar as a leader in education reform. According to the Webometrics Ranking of World Universities, the top-ranking universities in the country are Qatar University (1,881st worldwide), Texas A&M University at Qatar (3,905th) and Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar (6,855th).\n\nIn 2008, Qatar established the Qatar Science & Technology Park in Education City to link those universities with industry. Education City is also home to a fully accredited international Baccalaureate school, Qatar Academy. In addition, two Canadian institutions, the College of the North Atlantic (headquarters in Newfoundland and Labrador) and the University of Calgary, have inaugurated campuses in Doha. Other for-profit universities have also established campuses in the city. In 2009, under the patronage of H.H. Sheikha Mozah Al Missned, the World Innovation Summit for Education (WISE) was established with the aim of transforming education through innovation.\n\nIn 2012, Qatar was ranked third from the bottom of the 65 OECD countries participating in the PISA test of maths, reading and skills for 15- and 16-year-olds, comparable to Colombia or Albania, despite having the highest per capita income in the world. As part of its national development strategy, Qatar has outlined a 10-year strategic plan to improve the level of education. Furthermore, the government has launched educational outreach programs, such as Al-Bairaq. Al-Bairaq was launched in 2010 aims to provide high school students with an opportunity to experience a research environment in the Center for Advanced Materials in Qatar University. The program encompasses the STEM fields and languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "967170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=967170", "title": "Rabbinical Council of America", "text": "Rabbinical Council of America\n\nThe Rabbinical Council of America (RCA) is one of the world's largest organizations of Orthodox rabbis; it is affiliated with The Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America, more commonly known as the Orthodox Union (OU). It is the main professional rabbinical association within Modern Orthodox in the United States. Most rabbis of the RCA belong to Modern Orthodox Judaism.\n\nThe roots of the organization go back to 1923 when it was founded as the Rabbinical Council of the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America. Its purpose was to perpetuate and promote Orthodox Judaism in the United States of America.\n\nIts members attempted on a number of occasions to merge with other Jewish groups, for the purpose of developing a unified traditional rabbinate for the American Jewish community. A number of attempts were made to join with groups such as Agudat Israel, but all such attempts were rebuffed.\n\nA merger took place in 1935 between the Rabbinical Council of the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations and another Orthodox rabbinical group, the Rabbinical Association of the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, a part of Yeshiva University. With this merger the combined group took the name Rabbinical Council of America, known in the Jewish community as the RCA. In 1942 the Hebrew Theological College Alumni merged with the RCA. In later years the RCA attempted to merge with another Orthodox rabbinical group, the Rabbinical Alliance of America, but this attempt failed. There was also a temporary adoption of the Orthodox Roundtable that was abandoned in 1991, RCA leadership tried to censor the group.\n\nMost members of the Rabbinical Council of America are actively working as pulpit rabbis; a significant minority are working in Jewish education.\n\nRabbi Joseph B. Soloveitchik played an important role in the RCA until his death in 1993.\nFor many years, the RCA was led by Rabbi Steven Dworkin, who served as executive vice-president until his death in January 2003. The RCA was then headed by Rabbi Basil Herring, who previously served as director of the Orthodox Forum. In September 2012 the RCA announced that Rabbi Herring was transitioning to the position of editor-in-chief of RCA Publications and that Rabbi Mark Dratch would take over as the new EVP.\n\nIn recent years, complaints have surfaced within the Orthodox Jewish community about a lack of leadership and direction by the RCA and that the RCA has failed to meet the challenges posed by recent changes within the Orthodox Jewish community.\n\nIt publishes an English quarterly journal, \"Tradition: A Journal of Orthodox Jewish Thought\", which began in 1958, and a Hebrew journal, \"HaDarom\", which began in 1957.\n\nThe RCA was, for many years, affiliated with two yeshivas in Israel – Yeshivat HaDarom and the \"Gan Yavneh Youth Village. It severed its relations with both in 2009, pleading economic difficulties.\n\nIn 2009, it issued a protest against a USCCB statement on interfaith dialogue that was critical of dual-covenant theology.\n\nAs of 2010, there were close to 1,000 ordained rabbis in the RCA, spread throughout 14 countries.\n\nIn 2007, the RCA established a Geirus Policies and Standards (GPS) committee, to strive for uniform conversion procedures by its affiliated rabbis and local rabbinical courts across the United States.\nThe move was controversial, with some criticism that it would make conversion more difficult and intimidating, create onerous burdens for adopted children scheduled for conversion, and represented a capitulation to more conservative voices. Supporters of the GPS maintain that it would establish certainty for converts—particularly those looking to move to Israel and have their conversion recognized, create definite benchmarks, ensure observance of Jewish law by converts, and squelch past practices of questionable conversions that stemmed from situational pressure on individual rabbis.\n\nUnder the process created by the GPS, while individual rabbis mentor and educate potential converts, as was the case previously, a regional religious court (beth din) finalizes the conversion by examining the prospective convert and deciding whether to approving the application.\n\nA week after the arrest of Rabbi Barry Freundel, a prominent Washington, D.C. area RCA member on charges of voyeurism at a \"mikvah\", the RCA sought to contain damage from negative publicity. It announced on October 20, 2014 that it would now require the appointment of ombudswomen to protect the interests and handle concerns of women undergoing conversion to Judaism, a process which requires disrobing in a ritual bath. The council announced it would also create a commission to identify ways that abuses of converts during the conversion process could be prevented. The council noted that the commission will include female members. The crimes allegedly committed by Freundel sent shock waves through the American Jewish community and threatened to precipitate a crisis between the American and Israeli rabbinates. Initially, the spokesperson for the Chief Rabbinate of Israel, Ziv Maor, indicated that conversions Freundel had supervised would be reviewed, but after an emergency meeting the Rabbinate issued a statement that Freundel's conversions before his arrest would be viewed as valid. In December 2014 the RCA was added as a defendant in a lawsuit prompted by Freundel's alleged voyeurism. The lawsuit was filed by a student at Georgetown University's law school who initially identified Kesher Israel Congregation, the synagogue where Freundel served as rabbi, the \"mikvah\", and the law school as defendants for permitting Freundel’s alleged illegal activities to go unchecked. Two more lawsuits were filed by the end of 2014, alleging RCA was aware of irregular behavior on Freundel's part but failed to remove him from positions of authority. Rabbi Marc D. Angel, a critic of the RCA's new conversion system, claimed that if the allegations are true, they reinforce concerns about the concentration of conversion powers. \"This is a bad example of the fears we have had all along,\" Angel told \"The Jewish Daily Forward\". \"If you concentrate too much power in few hands, then there is bound to be abuse, and this just confirms our deepest fears.\" In response to the lawsuits, RCA issued the following statement: \"The RCA has conducted itself appropriately and is taking important steps to improve its conversion protocols. We will defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.\"\n\nOn October 22, 2018, a $14.25 million class action settlement was reached over claims connected to Freundel. The RCA, along with Kesher Israel, the National Capital Mikvah, and the Beth Din of America, were named as settling defendants.\n\nFollowing the release of a resolution on gun usage and gun ownership in July 2014, a controversy arose where a group of 12 Orthodox rabbis—nine of them members of the RCA—issued a counterstatement disputing the resolution.\nSubsequent dialogue focused on the alleged narrowness or breadth of the RCA statement in condemning \"gun violence\" and the \"critique of elements of American culture that valorize weaponry and violence” that focus exclusively on guns rather than non-firearm related violence in the United States,\nwhile the RCA maintained that the resolution was \"not about particular laws and regulations but a critique of elements of American culture that valorize weaponry and violence. That is, it was a broader critique of American gun culture.\"\nThe original resolution was passed by a plurality in a vote that included less than ten percent of RCA members participating.\n\nIn 2015, the RCA passed a resolution which states, \"RCA members with positions in Orthodox institutions may not ordain women into the Orthodox rabbinate, regardless of the title used; or hire or ratify the hiring of a woman into a rabbinic position at an Orthodox institution; or allow a title implying rabbinic ordination to be used by a teacher of Limudei Kodesh in an Orthodox institution.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7323222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7323222", "title": "Reinfeldt Cabinet", "text": "Reinfeldt Cabinet\n\nThe cabinet of Fredrik Reinfeldt () was the cabinet of Sweden from 2006 to 2014. It was a coalition cabinet consisting of the four parties in the centre-right Alliance for Sweden: the Moderate Party, Centre Party, Liberal People's Party and the Christian Democrats. \n\nThe cabinet was installed on 6 October 2006, following the 2006 general election which ousted the Social Democrats after twelve years in power. It retained power after the 2010 general election but now as a minority government, and is the longest-serving consecutive non-socialist government since Erik Gustaf Boström in 1900. It was led by Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt of the Moderate Party.\n\nParty breakdown of cabinet ministers:\n\nThe new government was presented on October 6, 2006. The following reforms have been proposed:\n\n\nOn October 7, 2006, the day after the new cabinet was announced two of the ministers, the Minister for Foreign Trade Maria Borelius and the Minister for Culture Cecilia Stegö Chilò, admitted that they had previously employed persons to take care of their children without paying the appropriate taxes. On October 11, 2006, it came to light that Cecilia Stegö Chilò and her husband had not paid their TV license for the last 16 years. On October 12, 2006, it emerged that two other ministers in the cabinet had neglected to pay the television license; Maria Borelius and the Minister for Migration and Asylum Policy, Tobias Billström. Radiotjänst i Kiruna AB, the private agency tasked with collecting the license fee, filed criminal charges against Cecilia Stegö Chilò, Maria Borelius and Tobias Billström.\n\nOn October 14, 2006, Maria Borelius resigned as Minister for Foreign Trade. On October 16, 2006, just two days after Maria Borelius' resignation, Minister for Culture Cecilia Stegö Chilò resigned as well.\n\nThe Minister for Defence, Mikael Odenberg, resigned on September 5, 2007, as he thought the budget cuts his department would face were to high.\n\nOn March 29, 2012, Minister for Defence, Sten Tolgfors, resigned due of his way to deal with the Project Simoom.\n\nIn public opinion survey conducted by \"Aftonbladet\"/Sifo in late 2006, the Swedish public was asked to rate each of the new ministers on a 5-graded scale. The average result for the 22 ministers was 2.93. This is higher than any of the rates that the Social Democratic Persson cabinet ever received during its years in power, and the highest ratings ever since the surveys started in 1996.\n\nFrom the Swedish general election, 2006 the opinions for the Reinfeldt cabinet have declined steadily from a level of about 51% down to a level about 40%, which election researchers generally explain as more than what could be expected due to normal inter-election popularity fall. Center-right newspapers in Sweden criticize the cabinet for not being pedagogically proficient, while the opposition newspapers just connects the impopularity of the cabinet with the scandals and the performed practical politics.\n\n"}
{"id": "5289557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5289557", "title": "Rop Gonggrijp", "text": "Rop Gonggrijp\n\nRobbert (Rop) Valentijn Gonggrijp (born 14 February 1968) is a Dutch hacker and one of the founders of XS4ALL.\n\nGonggrijp was born in Amsterdam. While growing up in Wormer in the Dutch Zaanstreek area, he became known as a teenage hacker and appeared as one of the main characters in Jan Jacobs's book \"Kraken en Computers\" (\"Hacking and computers\", Veen uitgevers 1985, ) which describes the early hacker scene in the Netherlands. Moved to Amsterdam in 1988. Founded the hacker magazine Hack-Tic in 1989. He was believed to be a major security threat by authorities in the Netherlands and the United States. In the masthead of Hack-Tic, Gonggrijp described his role as \"hoofdverdachte\" ('prime suspect'). He was convinced that the Internet would radically alter society.\n\nIn 1993, a number of people surrounding Hack-Tic including Gonggrijp founded XS4ALL. It was the first ISP that offered access to the Internet for private individuals in the Netherlands. Gonggrijp sold the company to the former enemy Dutch-Telecom KPN in 1997. After he left XS4ALL, Gonggrijp founded ITSX, a computer security evaluation company, which was bought by Madison Gurkha in 2006. In 2001, Gonggrijp started work on the \"Cryptophone\", a mobile telephone that can encrypt conversations.\n\nSince 1989, Gonggrijp has been the main organizer of hacker events held every four years. Originally organized by the cast of Hack-Tic, these events have continued to live to this day.\n\nThroughout the years, he has repeatedly shown his concerns about the increasing amount of information on individuals that government agencies and companies have access to. Rop held a controversial talk titled \"We lost the war\" at the Chaos Communication Congress 2005 in Berlin together with Frank Rieger.\n\nIn 2006 he founded the organisation \"Wij vertrouwen stemcomputers niet\" (\"We do not trust voting computers\") which campaigns against the use of electronic voting systems without a Voter Verified Paper Audit Trail and which showed in October 2006 on Dutch television how an electronic voting machine from manufacturer Nedap could easily be hacked. These findings were taken seriously both by the Dutch government and by international election observers.\n\nOn 16 May 2008 the Dutch government decided that elections would be held using paper ballots and red pencil only. A proposal to develop a new generation of voting computers was rejected.\n\nGonggrijp has worked for WikiLeaks, helping prepare the Collateral Murder April 2010 release of video footage from a Baghdad airstrike.\n\nOn 14 December 2010, in relation to ongoing investigations of WikiLeaks, the US Department of Justice issued a subpoena ordering Twitter to release information regarding Gonggrijp's account as well as those of Julian Assange, Chelsea Manning, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Jacob Appelbaum and all 637,000 users following @wikileaks. The reason is Gonggrijp's collaboration in releasing the \"Collateral Murder\" video in April 2010, a WikiLeaks action.\n\n"}
{"id": "13825504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13825504", "title": "Social programs in Canada", "text": "Social programs in Canada\n\nSocial programs in Canada include all government programs designed to give assistance to citizens outside what the market provides. The Canadian social safety net covers a broad spectrum of programs, and because Canada is a federation, many are run by the provinces. Canada has a wide range of government transfer payments to individuals, which totaled $176.6 billion in 2009. Only social programs that direct funds to individuals are included in that cost; programs such as medicare and public education are additional costs.\n\nIn Canada, the entirety of the social provisions of government are called \"social programs\" (), rather than \"social welfare\" as in European and British usage. \"Welfare\" in Canada, like in the United States, colloquially refers to direct payments to low-income individuals only, and not to healthcare and education spending. It is rarely used as the name of any specific program, however, because of its negative connotations. (In French it is commonly known as 'le bien-être social'). In slang, welfare is also sometimes referred to as \"the dole\" (slang, as in British usage).\n\nGenerally speaking before the Great Depression most social services were provided by religious charities and other private groups. Changing government policy between the 1930s and 1960s saw the emergence of a welfare state, similar to many Western European countries. Most programs from that era are still in use, although many were scaled back during the 1990s as government priorities shifted towards reducing budget deficits that were reaching levels deemed too high.\n\nAll provinces in Canada provide universal, publicly funded healthcare to Canadian citizens, permanent residents and certain temporary residents, with their costs partially subsidized by the federal government. Approximately 70% of expenditures for health care in Canada come from public sources, with the rest paid privately (both through private insurance, and through out-of-pocket payments). The extent of public financing varies considerably across services. For example, approximately 99% of physician services, and 90% of hospital care, are paid by publicly funded sources, whereas almost all dental care and most prescription drug cost are paid for privately. Most physicians are self-employed private entities which enjoy coverage under each province's respective healthcare plans.Compared to other single-payer health systems in the world, Canada is unusual in banning the purchase of private insurance or care for any services that are listed. This is meant to prevent what is described as \"two-tier healthcare\", which would allow the rich to \"jump the queue\". However, in 2005 the Supreme Court of Canada ruled in \"Chaoulli v. Quebec (Attorney General)\" that the ban on private care could be unconstitutional if it caused unreasonable delays for patients.\n\nIn Canada, provinces and territories are responsible for their elementary and secondary schools. Education is compulsory up to the age of 16 in most provinces, 17 and 18 in others. Both elementary and secondary education is provided at a nominal cost. Private education is available, but its comparatively high costs and the relative quality of public education result in it being less popular than in the United States or Britain. \nPost-secondary schooling is not free, but is subsidized by the federal and provincial governments. Financial assistance is available through student loans and bursaries.\n\nCanadian mortgages are insured by the federal Canadian Mortgage and Housing Corporation and most provinces have ministries in charge of regulating the housing market. It was created in the 1940s and in Quebec in 1958.\n\nAll provinces maintain a program of this sort known by names such as \"social assistance\", \"income support\", \"income assistance\" and \"welfare assistance\"; popularly they are known as \"welfare\". The purpose of these programs is to alleviate extreme poverty by providing a monthly payment to people with little or no income. The rules for eligibility and the amount given vary widely between the provinces. The welfare program for low income families exists in all provinces. It was created in the 1940s and in Quebec in 1958. The original plan was for Ottawa to pay half of the financial support for \nfamilies and the other half paid by each of the provinces.\n\nMost Canadian seniors are eligible for Old Age Security, a taxable monthly social security payment. In addition, most former workers can receive Canada Pension Plan or Quebec Pension Plan benefits based on their contributions during their careers. As well many people have a private pension through their employer, although that is becoming less common, and many people take advantage of a government tax-shelter for investments called a Registered Retirement Savings Plan or may save money privately.\n\nThe government has several agencies dedicated to developing specific regions.\n\n\nUsually each province has a department or ministry in charge of child welfare and dealing with adoption, foster care, etc. the federal government also offers the Universal Child Care Benefit to subsidize the cost of daycare spots or other forms of childcare.\n\nThe provinces are each responsible for disability welfare.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50066223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50066223", "title": "Solitary confinement of women", "text": "Solitary confinement of women\n\nWhile studies have shown the effects of solitary confinement to be detrimental to some inmates, solitary confinement of women has particular consequences for women that may differ from the way it affects men. Solitary confinement rates for women in the United States are roughly comparable to those for men and about 20% of prisoners will be in solitary confinement at some point during their prison career. Conversely, solitary confinement has also has a very positive effect on women. This article explores both sides of the argument.\n\nAccording to the Bureau of Justice Statistics’ report from 2011-2012, about 20% of female prison inmates and 17% of female jail inmates spent some time in solitary confinement during that year, numbers which are comparable to rates for men.\n\nSolitary confinement is allegedly used to prevent violence within the prison population, and is becoming more common with the prison industrial complex and the rise in incarceration rates. In most prisons, inmates that are put into solitary confinement fall into one of three categories: disciplinary segregation, voluntary administrative segregation, and involuntary administrative segregation. Disciplinary segregation is used as a punishment, while administrative segregation is a preventative measure intended to protect either the inmate being isolated or the other inmates. While segregation as a disciplinary measure or a precaution that protects other inmates is allegedly reserved for offenders who have committed violent acts while in prison, women in particular are often put into solitary for much smaller offenses, such as throwing things or talking back to guards. It is also often used against women who complain of sexual assault from prison guards or other inmates. Once they are in solitary confinement, women are often monitored more closely and disciplined more harshly than men are.\n\nAn offender who has committed a “serious disciplinary offense” may be put in solitary confinement as a punitive measure. Inmates put into disciplinary segregation are not required to be given the same privileges as those put into administrative segregation, but the duration of their stay in isolation tends to be shorter. According to a magazine written by inmates in a California prison, the practice operates under a “guilty until proven innocent” protocol, holding prisoners in solitary confinement even before it is clear that they committed the infraction.\n\nInmates who are considered to be politically threatening are sometimes put into isolation; although the United States does not officially hold political prisoners, some inmates in solitary confinement are there because of their political activism. This justification often means that minorities are more likely to end up in solitary confinement.\n\nAdministrative segregation, or “ad seg,\" is typically more common than disciplinary segregation, and serves to protect either the inmate being placed in solitary or others in the prison. An offender may be put into administrative segregation if they are thought to be dangerous to others or if their own safety is in danger, or if “the inmate has the potential to interfere with an ongoing investigation.\" Often women who vocalize the fact that they feel threatened by someone else will be put into solitary confinement, and similarly, if they are accused of acting threatening in any way, they are put into solitary without being able to defend themselves. Women who are put into administrative segregation tend to be those women who have had trouble adjusting to prison life and who are seen as “high-risk” and “high-needs” when they enter the prison. Because this type of segregation is not intended as punishment, inmates in administrative segregation are legally required to be treated in the same way as those in general confinement in the prison.\n\nWomen prisoners sometimes request to be put into solitary confinement, most often for their own protection. Specifically, some women are thought to request solitary confinement to avoid “further assaults on their identity” that might arise from their interactions and experiences in prison. Studies have found that women who have been in voluntary administrative segregation tend to have high personal or emotional needs, and some have struggled with substance abuse, although few have difficulty with “community functioning.”\n\nWomen prisoners who are deemed to be dangerous to other prisoners are sometimes put into administrative segregation; a prisoner can also be put in segregation if the officers determine that she herself is in danger and needs this protection. Like women who are voluntarily put into segregation, these women tend to have high personal and emotional needs, but many of them also have difficulties functioning in the community or associating with other people.\n\nIn general, women tend to be subjected to harsher disciplinary practices in prisons than men. In the case of solitary confinement, women are often put into segregation for committing small errors while in prison, for example spitting at a guard, while men must commit more violent infractions, such as attacking a guard, for segregation to become necessary. This could arise from the fact that women in prison are held to especially high standards of femininity, and prisons encourage them to conform to very traditional ideas of being a woman. This model of femininity requires women to be “pure, passive, heterosexual, and located in motherhood.\" When women do not comply with this standard while imprisoned, they are punished further. In fact, some prisons specifically isolate women who seem “butch” or not traditionally feminine.\n\nAnother catalyst for being put into solitary confinement that applies overwhelmingly to women is that prisoners who complain of abusive treatment by guards are often segregated as retaliation. In particular, women who speak out after guards have sexually harassed them are often put into segregation. Not only does this mean that guards who are guilty of sexually harassing inmates go unpunished, it also decreases the likelihood that women will report harassment.\n\nIn some prisons, women may be put into solitary confinement because their mental health issues prove to be too difficult for the authorities to deal with or are exhausting their resources. If the prison authorities are unable to address their inmates’ health concerns, they may put them into solitary confinement to avoid solving the problem. This means that the women in solitary confinement are often already at risk for mental health or other challenges, due to previous health concerns or sexual abuse.\n\nSolitary confinement has been shown to be detrimental to the mental and physical well-being of all inmates, but there are some ways in which being put into segregation can be more harmful for women than for men. This is often due to patriarchal structures that exist outside of the prison environment as well. They “experience segregation \"as women\"”; they are both subjected to slightly different treatment than men are and their perception of this treatment may differ as well.\n\nBeing put into solitary confinement can be very damaging to the mental health of female inmates, particularly those with a history of mental or physical illness, as has been found in a number of studies that observed and interviewed women who were being held in solitary confinement. Being held in a small space without access to objects, recreation, or human contact can lead to claustrophobia, anger, depression, hallucinations, insomnia, and obsessive ideation or fixation on dying. On a psychosomatic level, inmates in solitary confinement often experience a loss of appetite and/or weight, dizziness, or heart palpitations. Prison staff often do not respond adequately to complaints of any of these symptoms, and sometimes refuse to offer medical care or medication.\n\nSome of the anxiety that inmates, particularly female inmates, experience in solitary confinement comes from a loss or confusion of identity. Prisoners in solitary confinement are not allowed to decorate the small rooms that they are in or to bring most of their possessions that they were allowed in general confinement. This prevents the women from having any sort of entertainment, but also exacerbates feelings of a loss of individuality and of personal identity.\n\nStudies of the conditions of segregation, and interviews with the women who are subjected to them, have shown that women may also experience a collapse or confusion of identity while in prison because of their removal from their community and because of the unusual experience of space and time while in solitary confinement. Prisoners attach a lot of importance to the items that they have in their rooms; when they are placed into solitary confinement and no longer allowed to keep these identifying objects with them, they begin to lose their sense of self. Further, because prisoners kept in segregation often interact little with the outside world, and because the routines of eating and cleaning may be different from in general confinement, the women lose their ability to mark time. \"The Fire Inside\" magazine, written by offenders in California women’s prisons, quotes one prisoner as saying that her recommendation for those held in solitary confinement is “to create a schedule” and figure out the time of day, because it “helps to assert control over your own life and not be totally defined by whatever ‘routine’ the prison is forcing on you.”\n\nAnother aspect of their identity that is destroyed is their ability to form relationships with others. In most societies, women are perceived as being particularly social; having relationships with other people is seen as an essential element of their role as women in particular. This is of course impossible when in solitary confinement. It has been argued that this has a harmful effect on women especially. These conclusions were drawn from interviews with women who were still in solitary confinement, women who had been in solitary but had since been transferred back to the general prison population, and women who had been in solitary but had been released from incarceration, suggesting that these effects carry over beyond their time in segregation.\n\nSome prisons do allow inmates in solitary confinement to use recreation rooms and exercise yards, but these are often monitored by cameras, creating a sense of powerlessness and humiliating and deterring the women from using these facilities. Feelings of powerlessness or hopeless are exacerbated by the fact that women are often unsure of how long they will be held in solitary confinement.\n\nAll of these factors combined can have different effects on women, making them either increasingly anxious or increasingly indifferent. While some women feel desperate and angry, others attempt to feel as little as possible in order to mitigate the effects of segregation. Because of the detrimental effect on their mental stability, inmates in solitary confinement often resort to self-harm; this behavior is more common in women than in men. This can sometimes lead to women being held in solitary confinement for longer, as punishment for their destructive actions. Similarly, it reinforces the guards’ perceptions of these women as particularly violent or dangerous to the rest of the prison community.\n\nWomen in solitary confinement are often watched over by male guards, which can result in sexual harassment ranging from discomfort caused by guards watching them during private moments to nonconsensual sexual contact. Male guards often are present while women shower or undress, stripping away the women’s right to the privacy of their own bodies. Because women in solitary confinement experience so little human contact, the gaze of their guards is often the only interaction that they have with another person; this can exacerbate the feelings of loss of privacy.\n\nSimilarly, the clothing the women are required to wear is sexualized and humiliating. In some prisons, women in segregation wear a \"baby doll,\" a long shapeless dress, with no underclothes. Although men sometimes are required to wear the “baby doll” as well, women find that wearing it while being watched by their male guards is degrading and makes them feel powerless.\n\nBeyond this, women in segregation are sometimes subjected to sexual abuse or physical harassment by their male guards. They are often forced to undergo thorough strip searches, during which the guards are more forceful and invasive than is strictly necessary and serves mostly to demonstrate the guards’ authority over the inmates. Because so many female inmates have been victims of sexual or physical abuse, this forces them to relive the trauma of their previous abuse. This can be especially devastating for women whose mental states are already deteriorating, due to prior mental illness or to the effects of being in segregation. It can also result in pregnancy, and pregnant women in solitary confinement—whether the pregnancy was a result of a rape by a guard or not—are often denied proper medical care.\n\nWomen have also reported stories of being publicly humiliated when asking for additional sanitary pads during their menstrual periods, or being forced to hand in their used pads in order to acquire a new one, according to the women who contributed to \"The Fire Inside\" magazine. They are entirely dependent on male guards, even for such personal needs as this.\n\nWomen are more likely than men to be the primary guardian of a child or children; having a mother who is in solitary confinement, then, can be very detrimental to the children. Inmates in solitary confinement have much less frequent contact with family members, and when they do, they are usually separated by a partition. Although inmates are allowed some visits from immediate family members, a long background check is required. Children with mothers in prison are at a greater risk for depression or anxiety, substance abuse, or involvement in crime. These factors are only furthered by the more distanced relationship that becomes necessary with a mother in solitary confinement and the restrictions on visitation that accompany that.\n\nWomen who are released from solitary confinement into the general prison population are more likely than men to experience stigmatization and humiliation from the prison guards. This often leads to them isolating themselves and not interacting with other prisoners even when they are not in solitary confinement.\n\nOnce they are released from prison, too, they often have a harder time adjusting to being a part of society again, and frequently end up back in prison. Ex-offenders who were held in solitary confinement are more likely to commit violent acts against others once released than those who spent all their time in the general prison population. As one California prisoner who wrote for \"The Fire Inside\" prison magazine put it, “We go through these kind of mental, emotional, and spiritual stages. At first when you get here you’re angry and disoriented…Paranoia sets in…I slowly began to think of this cell as my safe place…What happens next year when they take the box away?” She, and other women in solitary confinement, become unequipped to deal with the outside world and the knowledge of technological advancement, social interaction skills, and mental stability that it requires.\n\nSolitary confinement is also known to have very positive effects on women. For example, ones needs are taken care of as food, shelter and a warm place to sleep are provided for the women. Moreover, a small solitary confinement cell is usually locked by a door or by bars, meaning that they are safe and secure from other violent inmates. Security survellance ensures that a female solitary confinement inmate has the highest welfare standards avaliable to them. Many women begin to love their solitary confinement cell and take comfort in the fact they are being taken care of. \n\nIn general, women of color, like men of color, are more likely to be put in prison than white women and men. Likewise, they are thought to be somewhat disproportionately represented in the solitary confinement population. The Bureau of Justice Statistics reports that in 2011-2012, 16% of white prison inmates, 20% of black/African American prison inmates, 16% of Hispanic or Latino prison inmates, and 20% of prison with some other racial identification were in solitary confinement at some point. The difference was slightly less pronounced in jails, with 17% of white, 17% of black/African American, 15% of Hispanic/Latino, and 21% of other inmates spending time in solitary confinement. There is no data available that specifically documents the intersection between race and gender.\n\nAlthough the number of people of color in isolation is only slightly higher than the number of white people, their experiences in solitary confinement may differ. Women in solitary confinement are treated as less than human, in ways which parallel not only the larger societal degradation of women but also that of people of color. The sexually abusive nature of their interactions with the guards, and the denial of medical care, social contact, and resources, can be seen as racialized. In particular, guards often refer to women in solitary confinement using slurs that are both misogynist and racist.\n\nWomen who are put into solitary confinement are often isolated because of actions that challenge dominant perspectives of femininity. Because women of color are often seen as possessing these non-feminine qualities already, they are more susceptible to being put into solitary confinement because of this kind of behavior. Black women are often perceived as “aggressive and recalcitrant,” Latina women are thought to be “loud and belligerent, sexually aggressive, or…unable to speak English,” and Native American women are seen as “backward, savage, and/or primitive.” Because of these preconceptions, women of color are thought to deviate strongly from the feminine ideal, which can be grounds for putting them in solitary confinement.\n\nRepresentations of crime in popular media serve to perpetuate racial stereotypes as well. Offenders of color, including women, are often portrayed as violent, hypersexual, or drug-addicted. While this is true of women of color in the general prison population as well as those held in solitary confinement, there is a particularly strong culture of fear that is built up around segregation units and the prisoners who are held there. Inmates who appear to belong to particular minority groups are often profiled by prison guards as more likely to be dangerous, violent, or involved in a gang, and therefore are moved into isolation; for example, prisoners who speak a language other than English are sometimes targeted as foreign and therefore gang-involved or dangerous.\n\nTransgender or gender nonconforming people are overrepresented in prisons, especially transgender people of color. This could be partly due to the fact that they are disproportionately homeless or living in poverty, conditions which more often lead to incarceration, and because they are targeted by the police and perceived as violent or sexually promiscuous (transgender women in particular). These misconceptions can also be used as reasons that guards place transgender inmates in solitary confinement. The issues that cisgender women face in prisons in general and in solitary confinement in particular can be exacerbated for transgender women, and for transgender men as well. For example, transgender inmates are much more likely to be sexually assaulted than their cisgender counterparts.\n\nAllegedly to protect against this kind of thing, transgender offenders are often put into solitary confinement. Transgender women are sometimes put in male prisons and then separated from the general prison population and put in “protective custody,” which functions in the same ways as solitary confinement, and in fact transgender inmates are sometimes put into segregation facilities that have worse conditions than the ones that cisgender inmates are in. This is said to be for their own safety, since most harassment and assault comes from other prisoners. However, this does not prevent the violence perpetrated by prison guards. Further, while transgender women are often put into confinement to keep them from becoming victims of violence, they are sometimes held near inmates who have been put into confinement because of past violent actions, and then experience violence from those inmates.\n\nBeing in solitary confinement can have consequences for transgender women’s mental and physical health, in particular because transgender people are already more likely to suffer from depression or other mental illness. Prisoners, and especially those in solitary confinement, do not always have access to the necessary medications, and transgender people specifically are often denied access to the hormones that they take.\n\nTransgender inmates in some prisons are able to form communities with each other or with cisgender inmates, and these relationships both help prevent violence and help support those who have experienced it. Studies have been reported in which men have bonded together to prevent a transgender woman in their facility from being sexually assaulted, and to help transgender women get access to medication they needed. These groups sometimes commit violent acts to defend or avenge a friend who has been hurt, as in the case in a New York men’s prison when a group of men killed another man who had attacked a young female transgender inmate; however, despite this violence, it is evident that transgender women sometimes form strong and protective bonds with other inmates that are taken away in solitary confinement. In fact, this is sometimes the purpose of segregating inmates.\n\nDespite all this, some transgender women, just like some cisgender women, do in fact request to be put into solitary confinement for their own safety. This is not the norm, however, and most women find it to be a painful and harmful experience.\n"}
{"id": "932162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=932162", "title": "Sporting Arms and Ammunition Manufacturers' Institute", "text": "Sporting Arms and Ammunition Manufacturers' Institute\n\nThe Sporting Arms and Ammunition Manufacturers' Institute (SAAMI, pronounced \"Sammy\") is an association of American firearms and ammunition manufacturers. SAAMI publishes various industry standards related to the field, including fire code, ammunition and chamber specifications, and acceptable chamber pressure.\nOnly manufacturers that are members of SAAMI are bound by the Institute's guidelines.\n\nSAAMI was founded in 1926 at the behest of the US government, with a charter to create standards, coordinate technical data, and promote firearms safety. For example, they publish a list of \"Unsafe Arms and Ammunition Combinations\" which details situations where a smaller cartridge may fit in firearms designed for a larger cartridge, but would be unsafe to use. For example, a .44 Magnum cartridge will chamber in a .45 Colt firearm but operates at a higher pressure and would be unsafe. SAAMI is an accredited standards developer for the American National Standards Institute (ANSI).\n\nSAAMI standards are voluntary, and are not incorporated into federal law in the United States.\n\nSAAMI's work is broken up in various committees each with a specific charter.\n\nThe \"Technical Committee\" does the main work of SAAMI. It is their job to set standards for ammunition and firearms. They interface with their European counterpart C.I.P. to try to develop common, internationally recognized standards. The technical committee provides an industry glossary to facilitate better communication.\n\nThe Logistics and Regulatory Affairs\" committee (also called SLARAC) is responsible for helping create transportation and store regulations. This is done mostly through educating people and agencies on safe practices. They work with and are members of:\n\nSAAMI Legal and Legislative Affairs Committee tracks and lobbies for and against legislation, and works with regulatory agencies such as the ATF to represent their member's interests.\n\nThe Environmental Committee works on science-based management of environmental issues such as wildlife, conservation, and human health as they relate to products produced by SAAMI member companies. Their goal is \"A clean and healthy ecosystem.\"\n\nInternationally, SAAMI is an accredited United Nations ECOSOC Non-Government Organization (NGO) with Consultative Status. It is their task to be a technical resource for various decision making groups inside the UN.\n\nThe following companies are voting members of SAAMI.\n\nThe international equivalent of SAAMI is the \"Commission Internationale Permanente pour l'Epreuve des Armes à Feu Portatives\" (French for \"Permanent international commission for testing portable firearms\") commonly abbreviated as C.I.P.\n\nDespite working together, the two main industry standards organizations SAAMI and C.I.P. have assigned different standards for some cartridges. This leads to officially sanctioned conflicting differences between European and American ammunition and chamber dimensions and maximum allowed chamber pressures.\n\nSome cartridges with possible chamber and ammunition dimensional conflicts, similar to the \"unsafe combinations\" listed above, are listed in the Delta L problem article.\n\nUnder SAAMI proof test procedures, for bottlenecked cases the center of the transducer is located behind the shoulder of the case for large diameter () transducers and for small diameter () transducers. For straight cases the center of the transducer is located one-half of the transducer diameter plus behind the base of the seated bullet. Small transducers are used when the case diameter at the point of measurement is less than .\n\nUnder C.I.P. proof test standards a drilled case is used and the piezo measuring device (transducer) will be positioned at a distance of from the breech face when the length of the cartridge case permits that, including limits. When the length of the cartridge case is too short, pressure measurement will take place at a cartridge specific defined shorter distance from the breech face depending on the dimensions of the case.\n\nThe difference in the location of the pressure measurement gives different results than the C.I.P. standard.\n\n\n\nSAAMI/ANSI Standards:\n\n"}
{"id": "44387493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44387493", "title": "Sports Federation Union of Catalonia", "text": "Sports Federation Union of Catalonia\n\nThe Sports Federation Union of Catalonia (Catalan: \"Unió de Federacions Esportives de Catalunya\"), generally known by its acronym UFEC is a private and non-profit sports association founded in 1933 under the name of the Catalan Union of Sports Federations (Catalan: \"Unió Catalana de Federacions Esportives\", UCFE) and restored in 1985 by the Generalitat of Catalonia. Its mission is to coordinate and grow the Catalan sports federations. Its headquarters are in Barcelona, Spain.\n\nThe current president of the UFEC is Gerard Esteva i Viladecans.\n\nThe Catalan Union of Sports Federations (\"UCFE\") was created to fill the gap that the Sports Confederation of Catalonia, founded in 1922, had left. The Confederation had entered into a deep crisis until practically disappearing at the end of 1931. The sports federations saw the need to work in a coordinated fashion at the beginning of 1933, which was when they set up a commission to draft the constitution of a new entity that would represent Catalan federated sports.\n\nUCFE was constituted on 3 July 1933 at the headquarters of its main backer, the Catalan Fighting Federation, in an assembly of federations called for that purpose. Representatives from a dozen Catalan sports entities were present. Six others joined in, bringing the number of founders to 18 federations.\n\nThe Union was declared an official corporation by the Generalitat of Catalonia on 17 July 1934 through decree. The decree specified that in order to achieve official status, an advisory board would be created with the mission of collaborating with the Generalitat of Catalonia in coordinating and regulating Catalan sports.\n\nThe UCFE ceased its activity in 1936 due to the Spanish Civil War.\n\nThe UFEC was restored 49 years later, after Franco's dictatorship and after the State of Autonomies had been established. The Generalitat of Catalonia revived the organisation through the 196/85 Decree of 15 July 1985. The decree created the Union of Catalan Sports Federations (Catalan: \"Unió de Federacions Esportives Catalanes\"), which changed its name to the Sports Federation Union of Catalonia (Catalan: \"Unió de Federacions Esportives de Catalunya\") in 1996, under the presidency of David Moner.\n\n18 presidents of Catalan sports federations met a week later, on 23 July 1985 and agreed to call for an assembly that would constitute the UFEC, elect the board of directors, elect the president and write its statutes. The assembly was celebrated on 31 July at the function hall of the General Direction of Sport for Catalonia, with the participation of 39 of the 47 Catalan federations that were legally constituted at the time.\n\nJoan de la Llera, president of the Catalan Gymnastics Federation, was chosen as the provisional president for the UFEC as the only candidate with support of 39 federations. Nine members were also chosen for the provisional board of directors: Francesc Josep d'Abadal (Catalan Polo Federation), Jordi Batalla (Olympic Archery Federation), Francesc Colomer (Riding Federation), Àngel Font (Motorsports Federation), Joan Garrigós (Federation of Hiking Entities of Catalonia), Francesc Isard (Winter Sports Federation), Josep Maria Martí (Petanque Federation), Joan Maria Roig (Sailing Federation) and Emili Serna (Judo Federation).\n\nThe provisional board of directors wrote the statutes which were approved unanimously in an assembly celebrated on 18 November 1985 at the hall of the Catalan Basketball Federation, with the presence of 26 federations.\n\nOnce the UFEC was constituted and its statutes approved, an electoral process was started to choose the definitive president and board of directors. An Extraordinary General Assembly was held on 19 December 1985, once again in the hall of the General Direction of Sport for Catalonia. Joan de la Llera, the sole candidate, was elected as the definitive president. The first board of directors was elected with him: Guillem Ros (Athleticism Federation) as first vice-president; Àngel Font (Motorsports Federation) as second vice-president; Josep Ferrer Peris (Tennis Federation) as treasurer; Josep d'Abadal (Polo Fedederation) as secretary and five board members: Joan Anton Camuñas (Sailing Federation), Enric Piquet (Basketball Federation), Jordi Batalla (Olympic Archery Federation), Antoni Guasch (Football Federation) and Joan Garrigós (Federation of Hiking Entities of Catalonia). The first board meeting was held on 16 January 1986, where Francesc Martínez i Massó, ex-president of the Hiking Federation was nominated as general secretary.\n\nA new chapter for sports was opened with the publication of Decree 70/1994 on 22 March, which regulated Catalan sports federations and was consolidated on 31 July with the 1/2000 Sport Law. Today, 69 Catalan federations are members of the UFEC and benefit from its services and resources.\n\nApart from his activity as a philologist, Pompeu Fabra was a sports aficionado. Drawn in mainly by hiking, he was a member of the Catalan Hiking Center from 1891 while he played tennis at the same time. From 1912 onwards he was part of FC Barcelona's tennis division until 1935. He was one of the founders of the Badalone Lawn Tennis Club and a member of the Masnou Tennis Club. From 1927 to 1935 he presided over the Lawn-Tennis Association of Catalonia, the precursor to the Catalan Federation, a title he held while also being president of Palestra from 1930 and president of UCFE. In 1933 he was elected by the Assembly of Federations to be their president, along with Joan Roca as secretary; Francesec Fàbregues as vice-secretary; Lluís Ortín as treasurer; Francesc Guarner as accountant; Càndid Vidal de llobatera as archivist; Joan Boix as librarian and Jaume Güell; Josep Sunyol, Ramon Peypoch as vice-presidents. He was the highest authority in Catalan sports during the Republican years.\n\nThere is little information about his mandate as head of UFEC but there are records of the organisation of the First Sports Week between 25 May and 2 June 1935 in which, without official subsidies, a large variety of sports activities were planned.\n\nHe was also the main driver behind a weekly radio show dedicated to the Catalan federations, broadcast by Radio Barcelona between 1934 and 1936.\n\nDe la Llera was president at the same time of UFEC and the Catalan Gymnastics Federation. He was already president of the Catalan Gymnastics Federation, the Catalan Association of Sports Directors and vice-president of the Spanish Gymnastics Federation when he became president of UFEC.\n\nJoan de la Llera lived through 17 October 1986, when Barcelona was nominated for the 1992 Summer Olympics, but had very little time to start projects as he died in a car crash on 11 December 1987, shortly before the Sports Law (Catalan: \"Llei de l'esport\") was passed, a law he had been a firm champion of.\n\nGuillem Ros became acting president when Joan de la Llera died. Guillem was the president of the Catalan Athleticism Federation and vice-president of the Directors Council of UFEC since its creation and occupied the presidency until May 1988, when Enric Piquet was elected as the new president.\n\nEnric Piquet was president of the Catalan Basketball Federation and was already a member of the board of directors that had been presided by Joan de la Llera. On 26 April 1988 he became the single candidate for the presidency after merging with the other candidate, Alexandre Solar Cabot, president of the Catalan Federation of Modern Pentathlon. In 1992, shortly before the Olympic Games, he was re-elected when UFEC was 57 federations strong. In 1996 he didn't present himself for re-election due to a new law that prevented a federation president from running and he still wanted to be leading basketball. We can highlight from his mandate how he championed the Catalan federations and their role in society, along with the creation of the UFEC Language Services, that have fought for the widespread use of Catalan in sports since 1989. The Generalitat published the 70/1994 Decree of 22 March during his presidency, through which Catalan sports federations were to be regulated. In 1995 UFEC won management rights for the Estació del Nord Sports Centre , which opened up an important chapter in its process of self-finance.\n\nDavid Moner become president after winning 25 November 1996 elections over Alexandre Soler-Cabot and Leandre Negre. During his several mandates, through which he was re-elected 4 times without opposition, UFEC intensified its task in promoting, defending and representing Catalan federated sport in its entirety. They worked hand-in-hand with the General Secretary of Sport for the international recognition of Catalan sports teams and started the Catalan Sports Festival. Above all else David Moner worked hard to turn the Union into a services entity with solid financial backing.\n\nUFEC won the 25-year contract to manage the Estació del Nord Sports Center in 1998. Since then it has worked on expanding and renovating the sports centre, which included adding a swimming pool which was opened to the public in 1999. Other sports centres gradually came under the management of UFEC. In 2004, the Catalan Olympic Committee (COC), which nowadays still defending its international recognition, was integrate into the UFEC. On 1 July 2014 David Moner left the presidency and Gerard Esteva, after having served as vice-president, became the new president of the UFEC.\n\nUFEC's mission is representing and promoting federated sport in Catalonia, as well as collaborating with public and private bodies to develop sports in general, ensuring the promotion of Catalan sports teams, federated sports clubs of Catalonia and their athletes in the autonomic as well as international arenas to promote Catalonia as a sporting nation. UFEC is an advisor to the General Secretary of Sport for Catalonia.\n\nUFEC offers a media presence to all sports disciplines that are performed in Catalonia, through different pages in newspapers, the weekly ZonaUFEC show which is broadcast through the TV channel Esport3 which belongs to TV3 and its own online television channel UFECtv. Since 2011 it has had its own archive where you can download and watch all published news items.\n\nUFEC also organises different events throughout the year that help people learn about sport in all of its rich variety:\n\n\nUFEC has its own resources thanks to the management, through different administrative concessions, of 6 sports installations which are: the Estació del Nord sports center, the Complex Esportiu Municipal d'Arella, the Complex Esportiu Municipal Fondo de les Creus d'Arenys de mar, the Complex Esportiu Sot de les granotes a Sant Celona, the Piscina Municipal de Salt and the municipal swimming pools Joan Serra of Sabadell. Another important income stream is the Unifedesport Insurance Company which was created in 2003 to manage insurance policies for federations, clubs, entities, sports centres and their athletes. Profits are distributed amongst the federations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1274469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1274469", "title": "THOMAS", "text": "THOMAS\n\nTHOMAS was the first online database of United States Congress legislative information. A project of the Library of Congress, it was launched in January 1995 at the inception of the 104th Congress and retired on July 5, 2016; it has been superseded by Congress.gov.\n\nThe resource was a comprehensive, Internet-accessible source of information on the activities of Congress, including:\n\n\nThe database was named after Thomas Jefferson, who was the third President of the United States. \"THOMAS\" was an acronym for \"The House [of Representatives] Open Multimedia Access System\".\n\nThe website allowed users to share legislative information via several social networking sites, and there were proposals for an application programming interface.\n\nThe Library of Congress created the Markup of US Legislation in Akoma Ntoso challenge in July 2013 to create representations of selected US bills using the most recent Akoma Ntoso standard within a couple months for a $5,000 prize, and the Legislative XML Data Mapping challenge in September 2013 to produce a data map for US bill XML and UK bill XML to the most recent Akoma Ntoso schema within a couple months for a $10,000 prize. \n\n"}
{"id": "50607631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50607631", "title": "The People of Family", "text": "The People of Family\n\nThe People of Family (, PdF), is a social conservative political party in Italy. Its leader and President is Mario Adinolfi, former member of the Democratic Party, writer and director of \"La Croce\" newspaper. The PdF Secretary is Gianfranco Amato, a lawyer and President of the organization \"Giuristi per la Vita\" (\"Jurists for Life\"), and its Coordinator is Nicola Di Matteo, founder of the association \"Non si tocca la Famiglia\" (\"Don't Touch the Family\"); they are all members of the Committee \"Difendiamo i nostri figli\" (\"Let's Defend Our Children\").\n\nThe party was founded in March 2016 from the necessity of giving a political representation to the people who participated in the \"Family Days\" at Piazza San Giovanni on the 20 June 2015 and at Circus Maximus on the 30 January 2016.\n\nThe People of the Family is a non-confessional and value-based political subject, of Christian inspiration, focused on the Social Doctrine of the Catholic Church, open to non-believers and to other religious confessions who share its program in defense of \"non-negotiable\" values: the right to life from conception to natural death, the centrality of the family, as established by Article 29 of the Italian Constitution (\"the family as the first natural community based on marriage\"), children's right to have a father and a mother, the PdF also opposes same-sex adoptions.\n\nThe People of Family's values are mainly centered on the Christian faith, which built the historical and cultural identity of Italy and Europe. Another fundamental value is represented by the family. According to PdF members, they are the heirs of the great tradition of the Italian People's Party of Don Luigi Sturzo.\n\nThe party was labeled by some political commentators as a Christian fundamentalist movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "10307620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10307620", "title": "Timeline of antisemitism", "text": "Timeline of antisemitism\n\nThis timeline of antisemitism chronicles the facts of antisemitism, hostile actions or discrimination against Jews as a religious or ethnic group. It includes events in the history of antisemitic thought, actions taken to combat or relieve the effects of antisemitism, and events that affected the prevalence of antisemitism in later years. The history of antisemitism can be traced from ancient times to the present day.\n\nSome authors prefer to use the terms anti-Judaism or religious antisemitism for religious sentiment against Judaism before the rise of racial antisemitism in the 19th century. For events specifically pertaining to the expulsion of Jews, please see Jewish refugees.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Talmud tells a similar story, but with the refusal to worship an idol replacing the refusal to eat pork. Tractate Gittin 57b cites Rabbi Judah saying that \"this refers to the woman and her seven sons\" and the unnamed king is referred to as the \"Emperor\" and \"Caesar\". The woman commits suicide in this rendition of the story: she \"also went up on to a roof and threw herself down and was killed\".\n\nOther versions of the story are found in 4 Maccabees (which suggests that the woman might have thrown herself into the flames, 17:1) and Josippon (which says she fell dead on her sons' corpses).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere is an annual event reading Washington's letter, and speakers at the annual event have included Supreme Court Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Elena Kagan; and Brown University Presidents Ruth Simmons and Christina Paxson.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the Roman Catholic Church adhered to a distinction between \"good antisemitism\" and \"bad antisemitism\". The \"bad\" kind promoted hatred of Jews because of their descent. This was considered un-Christian because the Christian message was intended for all of humanity regardless of ethnicity; anyone could become a Christian. The \"good\" kind criticized alleged Jewish conspiracies to control newspapers, banks, and other institutions, to care only about accumulation of wealth, etc. Many Catholic bishops wrote articles criticizing Jews on such grounds, and, when accused of promoting hatred of Jews, would remind people that they condemned the \"bad\" kind of antisemitism.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"The Franklin \"Prophecy\" is a classic antisemitic canard that falsely claims that American statesman Benjamin Franklin made anti-Jewish statements during the Constitutional Convention of 1787. It has found widening acceptance in Muslim and Arab media, where it has been used to criticize Israel and Jews...\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOverall, only 789 individuals of the approximately 6,500 surviving \"SS\" personnel who served at Auschwitz and its sub-camps were ever tried, of which 750 received sentences. Unlike the first trial in Poland held almost two decades earlier, the trials in Frankfurt were not based on the legal definition of crimes against humanity as recognized by international law, but according to the state laws of the Federal Republic.\n\n\n'Any good I've done has been spoiled by bad intentions – the preoccupation with irrelevant and stupid things,' [he] replied. Then very slowly, with emphasis, surely conscious of Ginsberg's being Jewish: 'But the worst mistake I made was that stupid, suburban prejudice of anti-semitism.'\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBe it further RESOLVED, That Southern Baptists covenant to work positively to replace all anti-Semitic bias with the Christian attitude and practice of love for Jews, who along with all other men, are equally beloved of God.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBuchanan supporters say the paragraph is taken out of context. They point out that in the same review Buchanan praised Winston Churchill for seeing that \"Hitler was marching along the road toward a New Order where Western civilization would not survive\" and concluded that modern-day statesmen were not following that example.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nKeegstra was charged under s 281.2(2) of the \"Criminal Code\" (now s 319(2), which provides that \"Every one who, by communicating statements, other than in private conversation, wilfully promotes hatred against any identifiable group\" commits a criminal offence. He was convicted at trial before the Alberta Court of Queen's Bench. The court rejected the argument, advanced by Keegstra and his lawyer, Doug Christie, that promoting hatred is a constitutionally protected freedom of expression as per s 2(b) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Keegstra appealed to the Alberta Court of Appeal. That court agreed with Keegstra, and he was acquitted. The Crown then appealed the case to the Supreme Court of Canada, which rule by a 4–3 majority that promoting hatred could be justifiably restricted under s 1 of the Charter. The Supreme Court restored Keegstra's conviction. He was fired from his teaching position shortly afterwards.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSome mainstream Holocaust historians have labeled Mayer a denier. The Israeli historian Yehuda Bauer wrote that Mayer \"popularizes the nonsense that the Nazis saw in Marxism and Bolshevism their main enemy, and the Jews unfortunately got caught up in this; when he links the destruction of the Jews to the ups and downs of German warfare in the Soviet Union, in a book that is so cocksure of itself that it does not need a proper scientific apparatus, he is really engaging in a much more subtle form of Holocaust denial\".\n\nDefenders of Mayer argue that his statement that \"Sources for the study of the gas chambers at once rare and unreliable\" has been taken out of context, particularly by Holocaust deniers. Michael Shermer and Alex Grobman observe that the paragraph from which the statement is taken asserts that the SS destroyed the majority of the documentation relating to the operation of the gas chambers in the death camps, which is why Mayer feels that sources for the operation of the gas chambers are \"rare\" and \"unreliable\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWhen asked for his source, Buchanan said, \"somebody sent it to me.\" Critic Jamie McCarthy says this claim may have come from the German American Information and Education Association's newsletter, a publication he accused of anti-Semitism and Holocaust denial. He also argues that:\nThe \"Washington Post\" had reported in 1989, before the controversy, that:\n\n\nThe book was criticized for being antisemitic, and for failing to provide an objective analysis of the role of Jews in the slave trade. Common criticisms were that the book used selective quotes, made \"crude use of statistics,\" and was purposefully trying to exaggerate the role of Jews.\n\nHistorian Ralph A. Austen criticized the book, saying that the \"distortions are produced almost entirely by selective citation rather than explicit falsehood... more frequently there are innuendos imbedded in the accounts of Jewish involvement in the slave trade,\" and \"[w]hile we should not ignore the anti-Semitism of The Secret Relationship..., we must recognize the legitimacy of the stated aim of examining fully and directly even the most uncomfortable elements in our [Black and Jewish] common past.\" Austen acknowledges that the book was the first book on the subject aimed at a non-scholarly audience.\n\nIn 1995, the American Historical Association (AHA) issued a statement condemning \"any statement alleging that Jews played a disproportionate role in the Atlantic slave trade.\"\n\nThe publication of \"The Secret Relationship\" spurred retorts published specifically to refute the thesis of \"The Secret Relationship\":\n\n\nA post-1991 scholar who analyzed the role of Jews in the overall Atlantic slave trade concluded that it was \"minimal,\" and only identified certain regions (such as Brazil and the Caribbean) where the participation was \"significant.\"\n\nWim Klooster wrote: \"In no period did Jews play a leading role as financiers, shipowners, or factors in the Transatlantic or Caribbean slave trades. They possessed far fewer slaves than non-Jews in every British territory in North America and the Caribbean. Even when Jews in a handful of places owned slaves in proportions slightly above their representation among a town's families, such cases do not come close to corroborating the assertions of The Secret Relationship.\"\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League states that Volume Two of \"The Secret Relationship\" blames Jews for \"promoting a myth of black racial inferiority and makes a range of conspiratorial accusations about Jewish involvement in the slave trade and in the cotton, textiles, and banking industries\".\n\n\n\nIn its wake, several Jews were seriously injured; one Orthodox Jewish man was killed; and a non-Jewish man, apparently mistaken by rioters for a Jew, was killed by a group of black men. The riots were a major issue in the 1993 mayoral race, contributing to the defeat of Mayor David Dinkins, an African American, who was blamed for an ineffective police response. Ultimately, black and Jewish leaders developed an outreach program between their communities to help calm and possibly improve racial relations in Crown Heights over the next decade.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Los Angeles-based Simon Wiesenthal Center instigated a boycott of Bungei Shunju advertisers, including Volkswagen, Mitsubishi, and Cartier. Within days, Bungei Shunju shut down \"Marco Polo\" and its editor, Kazuyoshi Hanada, quit, as did the president of Bungei Shunju, Kengo Tanaka.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNAACP President Kweisi Mfume immediately suspended Alcorn and condemned his remarks. Mfume stated, \"I strongly condemn those remarks. I find them to be repulsive, anti-Semitic, anti-NAACP and anti-American. Mr. Alcorn does not speak for the NAACP, its board, its staff or its membership. We are proud of our long-standing relationship with the Jewish community and I personally will not tolerate statements that run counter to the history and beliefs of the NAACP in that regard.\"\n\nAlcorn, who had been suspended three times in the previous five years for misconduct, subsequently resigned from the NAACP and started his own organization called the Coalition for the Advancement of Civil Rights. Alcorn criticized the NAACP, saying, \"I can't support the leadership of the NAACP. Large amounts of money are being given to them by large corporations that I have a problem with.\" Alcorn also said, \"I cannot be bought. For this reason I gladly offer my resignation and my membership to the NAACP because I cannot work under these constraints.\"\n\nAlcorn's remarks were also condemned by the Reverend Jesse Jackson, Jewish groups and George W. Bush's rival Republican presidential campaign. Jackson said he strongly supported Lieberman's addition to the Democratic ticket, saying, \"When we live our faith, we live under the law. He [Lieberman] is a firewall of exemplary behavior.\"\n\nAl Sharpton, another prominent African-American leader, said, \"The appointment of Mr. Lieberman was to be welcomed as a positive step.\" The leaders of the American Jewish Congress praised the NAACP for its quick response, stating that: \"It will take more than one bigot like Alcorn to shake the sense of fellowship of American Jews with the NAACP and black America... Our common concerns are too urgent, our history too long, our connection too sturdy, to let anything like this disturb our relationship.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRESOLVED, That we affirm to Jewish people around the world that we stand with them against any harassment that violates our historic commitments to religious liberty and human dignity; and be it finally\n\nRESOLVED, That we call on governmental and religious leaders across the world to stand against all forms of bigotry, hatred, or persecution.\"\n\n\nThe exhibition was funded by an anonymous Jewish philanthropist, and created by Matt Prescott, who lost several relatives in the Holocaust. Prescott said: \"The very same mindset that made the Holocaust possible – that we can do anything we want to those we decide are 'different or inferior' – is what allows us to commit atrocities against animals every single day. ... The fact is, all animals feel pain, fear and loneliness. We're asking people to recognize that what Jews and others went through in the Holocaust is what animals go through every day in factory farms.\"\n\nHowever, Abraham Foxman, chairman of the Anti-Defamation League, said the exhibition was \"outrageous, offensive and takes chutzpah to new heights ... The effort by PETA to compare the deliberate systematic murder of millions of Jews to the issue of animal rights is abhorrent.\" Stuart Bender, legal counsel for the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, wrote to PETA asking them to \"cease and desist this reprehensible misuse of Holocaust materials.\"\n\nOn 20 February 2009, the German Federal Constitutional Court dismissed a legal move challenging an appeal court's ruling that People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals's campaign was not protected by free speech laws. While not entering formal proceedings to decide in the matter, the court expressed severe doubts as to whether the campaign constituted an offense against human rights in its opinion to dismiss the appeal, as had been found by the orderly courts, but acceded to the other grounds of the former rulings that the campaign constituted a trivialization of the Holocaust and hence a severe violation of living Jews' personality rights. The subtleties of the ruling are sometimes not reflected adequately in press reports.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA joint committee of the Secretariat for Ecumenical and Inter-religious Affairs of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops and the Department of Inter-religious Affairs of the Anti-Defamation League obtained a version of the script before it was released in theaters. They released a statement, calling it one of the most troublesome texts, relative to anti-Semitic potential, that any of us had seen in twenty-five years. It must be emphasized that the main storyline presented Jesus as having been relentlessly pursued by an evil cabal of Jews, headed by the high priest Caiaphas, who finally blackmailed a weak-kneed Pilate into putting Jesus to death. This is precisely the storyline that fueled centuries of anti-Semitism within Christian societies. This is also a storyline rejected by the Roman Catholic Church at Vatican II in its document \"Nostra aetate\", and by nearly all mainline Protestant churches in parallel documents. ... Unless this basic storyline has been altered by Mr. Gibson, a fringe Catholic who is building his own church in the Los Angeles area and who apparently accepts neither the teachings of Vatican II nor modern biblical scholarship, \"The Passion of the Christ\" retains a real potential for undermining the repudiation of classical Christian anti-Semitism by the churches in the last forty years.\n\nThe ADL itself also released a statement about the yet-to-be-released film:\nFor filmmakers to do justice to the biblical accounts of the passion, they must complement their artistic vision with sound scholarship, which includes knowledge of how the passion accounts have been used historically to disparage and attack Jews and Judaism. Absent such scholarly and theological understanding, productions such as \"The Passion\" could likely falsify history and fuel the animus of those who hate Jews. Rabbi Daniel Lapin, the head of the Toward Tradition organization, criticized this statement, and said of Foxman, the head of the ADL, \"what he is saying is that the only way to escape the wrath of Foxman is to repudiate your faith\".\n\nIn \"The Nation\", reviewer Katha Pollitt said: \"Gibson has violated just about every precept of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops own 1988 'Criteria' for the portrayal of Jews in dramatizations of the Passion (no bloodthirsty Jews, no rabble, no use of Scripture that reinforces negative stereotypes of Jews, etc.) [...] The priests have big noses and gnarly faces, lumpish bodies, yellow teeth; Herod Antipas and his court are a bizarre collection of oily-haired, epicene perverts. The 'good Jews' look like Italian movie stars (Italian sex symbol Monica Bellucci is Mary Magdalene); Mary, who would have been around 50 and appeared 70, could pass for a ripe 35.\" Jesuit priest Fr. William Fulco, S.J., of Loyola Marymount University—and the film's Hebrew dialogue translator—specifically disagreed with that assessment, and disagreed with concerns that the film accused the Jewish community of deicide.\n\nOne specific scene in the film perceived as an example of anti-Semitism was in the dialogue of Caiaphas, when he states \"His blood [is] on us and on our children!\", a quote historically interpreted by some as a curse taken upon by the Jewish people. Certain Jewish groups asked this be removed from the film. However, only the subtitles were removed; the original dialogue remains in the Hebrew soundtrack. When asked about this scene, Gibson said: \"I wanted it in. My brother said I was wimping out if I didn't include it. But, man, if I included that in there, they'd be coming after me at my house. They'd come to kill me.\" In another interview when asked about the scene, he said, \"It's one little passage, and I believe it, but I don't and never have believed it refers to Jews, and implicates them in any sort of curse. It's directed at all of us, all men who were there, and all that came after. His blood is on us, and that's what Jesus wanted. But I finally had to admit that one of the reasons I felt strongly about keeping it, aside from the fact it's true, is that I didn't want to let someone else dictate what could or couldn't be said.\"\n\nAdditionally, the film's suggestion that the Temple's destruction was a direct result of the Jews' actions towards Jesus could also be interpreted as an offensive take on an event which Jewish tradition views as a tragedy, and which is still mourned by many Jews today on the fast day of Tisha B'Av.\n\nAsked by Bill O'Reilly if his movie would \"upset Jews\", Gibson responded, \"It's not meant to. I think it's meant to just tell the truth. I want to be as truthful as possible.\" In an interview in \"The Globe and Mail\" newspaper, he added: \"If anyone has distorted Gospel passages to rationalize cruelty towards Jews or anyone, it's in defiance of repeated Papal condemnation. The Papacy has condemned racism in any form. ... Jesus died for the sins of all times, and I'll be the first on the line for culpability\".\n\nConservative columnist Cal Thomas also disagreed with allegations of antisemitism, saying \"To those in the Jewish community who worry that the film [...] might contain anti-Semitic elements, or encourage people to persecute Jews, fear not. The film does not indict Jews for the death of Jesus.\" Two Orthodox Jews, Rabbi Daniel Lapin and conservative talk-show host and author Michael Medved, also vocally rejected claims that the film is anti-Semitic. They have noted the film's many sympathetic portrayals of Jews: Simon of Cyrene (who helps Jesus carry the cross), Mary Magdalene, the Virgin Mary, St. Peter, St. John, Veronica (who wipes Jesus' face and offers him water) and several Jewish priests who protest Jesus' arrest (Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea) during Caiaphas' trial of Jesus.\n\nBob Smithouser of Plugged in Online believed that film was trying to convey the evils and sins of humanity rather than specifically targeting Jews, stating: \"The anthropomorphic portrayal of Satan as a player in these events brilliantly pulls the proceedings into the supernatural realm—a fact that should have quelled the much-publicized cries of anti-Semitism since it shows a diabolical force at work beyond any political and religious agendas of the Jews and Romans.\"\n\nMoreover, Senior Vatican officer Cardinal Darío Castrillón Hoyos, who has seen the film, addressed the matter so:\nAnti-Semitism, like all forms of racism, distorts the truth in order to put a whole race of people in a bad light. This film does nothing of the sort. It draws out from the historical objectivity of the Gospel narratives sentiments of forgiveness, mercy, and reconciliation. It captures the subtleties and the horror of sin, as well as the gentle power of love and forgiveness, without making or insinuating blanket condemnations against one group. This film expressed the exact opposite, that learning from the example of Christ, there should never be any more violence against any other human being.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn 31 August 2005, Kevin James and three other men were indicted on terrorism charges related to conspiracy to attack military facilities in the Los Angeles area and of attempting to fund their campaign by robbing gas stations in Southern California over the previous three months. Kevin James, a Muslim convert, was accused of founding a radical Islamic group called J.I.S (Jam’iyyat Ul-Islam Is-Saheehجمعية الإسلام الصحيح, Arabic for \"Assembly of Authentic Islam\") from his cell in Folsom Prison in California, and of recruiting fellow inmates to join his mission to kill infidels.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the form in which they appear in the 1962 Missal, the set of prayers in which that of the Jews is included are for: the Holy Church, the Supreme Pontiff; all orders and grades of the faithful (clergy and laity); public officials (added in 1955, replacing an older prayer for the Holy Roman Emperor, not used since the abdication of Francis II in 1806 but still printed in the Roman Missal); catechumens; the needs of the faithful; heretics and schismatics; the conversion of the Jews (without the word \"perfidis\"); the conversion of pagans.\n\nIn later editions of the Missal, the prayers are for: the Church; the Pope, the clergy and laity of the Church; those preparing for baptism; the unity of Christians, the Jewish people; those who do not believe in Christ; those who do not believe in God; all in public office; those in special need.\n\n\n\nJewish communities around the world are rocked by firebombings, assaults, and death threats during a spate of Antisemitic incidents during the Gaza War.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe new prayer reads as follows:\n\nEven the new formulation met with reservations from groups such as the Anti-Defamation League. They considered the removal of \"blindness\" and \"immersion in darkness\" with respect to the Jews an improvement over the original language in the Tridentine Mass, but saw no reason why the prayer in the rite as revised by Paul VI was not used instead.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAmedy Coulibaly had pledged allegiance to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, and was a close friend of Saïd Kouachi and Chérif Kouachi (whom he had met in jail in 2005), the gunmen in the \"Charlie Hebdo\" attack. Armed with a submachine gun, an assault rifle, and two Tokarev pistols, he entered and attacked the people in the kosher food superette. He had a female accomplice, speculated to be his wife, Hayat Boumeddiene. Coulibaly murdered four Jewish hostages, and held fifteen other hostages during a siege in which he demanded that the Kouachi brothers not be harmed. The police ended the siege by storming the store and killing Coulibaly.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHe defended his claims by reference to Lenni Brenner's \"Zionism in the Age of the Dictators\", and many commentators suggested that Livingstone was referring to the Haavara Agreement between Nazi Germany and the Zionist Federation of Germany. Livingstone's statements were criticised by historians, among them Roger Moorhouse, who said that they were historically inaccurate. He also became involved in a public argument on the subject with the Labour MP John Mann.\n\nLivingstone was subsequently suspended from Labour Party membership \"for bringing the party into disrepute\". Over 20 Labour MPs called for Livingstone's suspension, while Jon Lansman, founder of the pro-Corbyn Momentum group, called for Livingstone to leave politics altogether, and Khan called for his expulsion from the party. In a subsequent interview, Livingstone expressed regret both for mentioning Hitler and for offending Jews but added that \"I'm not going to apologise for telling the truth.\" Corbyn announced that the decision to expel Livingstone would be made by a National Executive Committee internal inquiry, whilst Livingstone insisted that he would be exonerated on the basis of Brenner's book, saying \"how can the truth be an offence?\" Following this controversy, Livingstone has questioned whether or not he has Jewish ancestry on his mother's side stating that Greville Janner used to speculate whether or not he was Jewish because \"my grandmother's name was Zona.\"\n\nLivingstone was sacked in Spring 2016 by LBC. He was quoted by \"The Daily Telegraph\" as saying this was because of his comments about Hitler.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBen Shapiro, Bernard Marcus of the Republican Jewish Coalition, Morton Klein and the Zionist Organization of America, Pamela Geller, Shmuley Boteach, and David Horowitz defended Bannon against the allegations of antisemitism. Alan Dershowitz first defended Bannon and said there was no evidence he was anti-semitic, but in a later piece stated that Bannon and Breitbart had made bigoted statements against Muslims, women, and others. The ADL said \"we are not aware of any anti-Semitic statements from Bannon\", while adding \"under his stewardship, Breitbart has emerged as the leading source for the extreme views of a vocal minority who peddle bigotry and promote hate.\" Shapiro, who previously worked for Breitbart, said that he has no evidence of Bannon being racist or an anti-Semite, but that he was \"happy to pander to those people and make common cause with them in order to transform conservatism into European far-right nationalist populism\", an assertion supported by other sources and his alluding to Front National politician Marion Maréchal-Le Pen as \"the new rising star\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Unite the Right rally was a gathering of far-right groups in Charlottesville, Virginia, United States, on 11 and 12 August 2017. \nOn the evening of Friday, 11 August, a group of white nationalists—variously numbered at dozens, around 100, and hundreds—marched through the University of Virginia's campus while chanting things including \"Jews will not replace us\", and the Nazi slogan \"Blood and Soil\". On 12 August protesters and counterprotesters gathered at Emancipation Park (formerly known as Lee Park). White nationalist protesters chanted Nazi-era slogans, including \"Blood and Soil\". They shouted among other things, \"Jews will not replace us.\" Some held posters targeting Jews that read \"the Goyim know\", using the Hebrew word for non-Jews, as well as \"the Jewish media is going down\". Also on 12 August, an attendee drove his car into a crowd of people protesting the rally, killing 32-year-old Heather D. Heyer and injuring 19 others, in what police have called a deliberate attack. The driver was identified as James Alex Fields Jr.; following the crash, his former high school history teacher said he was a Nazi sympathizer who held white supremacist views and was infatuated with Adolf Hitler. Two hours before the crash, a \"New York Daily News\" photographer snapped James brandishing a wooden shield emblazoned with the logo for neo-Nazi group Vanguard America, standing alongside its members. However, after he was arrested, the group issued a statement denying he was a member and saying \"the shields were freely handed out to anyone in attendance.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2513620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2513620", "title": "Trudoviks", "text": "Trudoviks\n\nThe Trudoviks (, \"Trudovaya gruppa\"; literally \"Labour Group\") were a social-democratic political party of Russia in early 20th century.\n\nThe Trudoviks were a breakaway of the Socialist Revolutionary Party faction as they defied the party's stance by standing in the First Duma. They were founded and led by Aleksei Aladin., a Russian soldier. He was elected to the First Duma in 1906 but spent his later years in exile in the United Kingdom. Aladin was born in Simbirsk in 1873 to a peasant family and attended the same gymnasium as Lenin and Alexander Kerensky.\n\nThis agrarian socialist party was one of hundreds of small workers' circles that sprang up around Russia in the aftermath of the 1905 Revolution. While the revolution did not remove the Tsar, it certainly curtailed his power—but not to the extent of the democratic, liberal society that the revolutionaries had hoped for—and as result the party remained small, though it survived.\n\nThe Trudoviks are best known for winning seats in the State Duma, a national assembly created by Tsar Nicholas II in the aftermath of the 1905 Revolution. The seats they won were mainly in the 1st and 2nd assemblies in 1906 and 1907, when they gained over 100 seats. Alexander Kerensky, later Prime Minister of Russia under the Provisional Government in 1917, was elected to the Fourth Duma as a Trudovik in 1912.\n\nFrom January 1907, the labor group vigorously set about election campaigning. Almost everywhere, it sought to unite all the left elements, sometimes together with the Cadets. against the Right and Octobrists, sometimes without the Cadets. against them and the Rights. In St. Petersburg, the bloc of all the leftists with the Cadets failed, but a block of leftists took place without the Cadets. and without social-dem. \"Mensheviks\". In St. Petersburg, this bloc was defeated, but collected 27% of all the votes cast and held electors in one of the 12 parts of the city of St. Petersburg ( Vyborg ). In the first days of the second Duma 55 active members were registered in the labor group, except for 14 members of the peasant union who joined it, and 19 deputies who declared themselves \"sympathetic to the labor group.\" February 15-17, 1907 in Terioki the second congress of the labor group was held, attended by 52 delegates from various departments.\n\nAt this congress it was decided that the working group would merge with the peasant union and be called the \"labor group and peasant union\", representing a unified parliamentary faction, with a single committee. The draft platform of the group was considered, but it was not finally approved and was recognized as acting temporarily, until the revision at the III Congress. The Central Committee of the group remained the same, from the labor group, and was conducted to the Presidium of the Duma, Comrade Chairman, M.E. Berezin . Among the visitors of the labor group meetings was another comrade of the chairman, HH Poznansky (but after he was elected to the chairman's comrades).\n\nIn the first days of the State, the Duma's working group introduced a draft amnesty for political criminals, which was somewhat modified by the previous year's edition. The Duma group also introduced a draft of land reform, for which the group also took advantage of the previous year's project. Speakers of the labor group of the second Duma -- Berezin, Karavaev , Bulat , Tikhvinsky , Kartashev, and others -- stood out.\n\nAlmost always the labor group acted in the Duma together with the social-revolutionary. and bunk. socialists. It sought to create a permanent bloc of these three Duma factions and even merge them into one Duma faction, without destroying the party independence of each of them outside the Duma.\n\nThe labor group continued to exist only as a parliamentary faction. In the elections to the Third and Fourth Duma, the Trudoviks spoke out from a bloc of Narodnik organizations and left-wing forces that stood on the basis of radical democratic reforms. In the Third State Duma Trudoviks received 14 seats, in the 4th - 10 seats.\n\nAfter the Third June coup d'état, the work of the Trudoviks in the provinces ceased. After the February Revolution of 1917, they united with the people's socialists (unes) and formed the Labor People's Socialist Party at the Sixth Congress of the Trudoviks [June 17-23 (June 30-July 6)) 1917]. The party supported the Provisional Government, and after the October Revolution of 1917 took an anti-Bolshevik position and soon disintegrated.\n\n"}
{"id": "219147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219147", "title": "Vlaams Blok", "text": "Vlaams Blok\n\nVlaams Blok (, or VB) was the name of a Belgian far-right and secessionist political party with an anti-immigration platform. Its ideologies embraced Flemish nationalism, calling for the independence of Flanders. From its creation in 1978, it was the most notable militant right wing of the Flemish movement. \"Vlaams Blok\"'s track record in the Flemish and Belgian parliament elections was strong. The election campaigns consisted mainly of the immigration and law-and-order theme, combined with the desire for Flemish autonomy.\n\nAll significant Flemish political parties were reluctant to enter coalitions with the \"Vlaams Blok\". Following a 1989 agreement, known as the \"cordon sanitaire\", the party was effectively blocked from entering any level of government. The Court of Appeal in Ghent in April 2004 ruled that some of the party's organizations had breached the 1981 anti-racism law and that the party sanctioned discrimination. The ruling was made definite on 9 November 2004, and the party shortly after reorganised itself as the \"Vlaams Belang\". By 2004, the party had arguably become the single most popular Flemish party in Belgium, supported by about one in four of the Flemish electorate, as well as being one of the most successful radical right-wing populist parties in Europe as a whole.\n\nThe \"Vlaams Blok\" originated from the loose Flemish Movement, which historically has included an array of organisations seeking, to varying degrees, to promote Flanders. In the second half of the nineteenth century, Flemish nationalists operated within the established political parties, and had close ties with the political left. The early organised political expression of Flemish nationalism was triggered by World War I, and the introduction of universal suffrage and proportional representation in elections. The main party that initially represented the movement was the left-wing nationalist Front Party, founded by former soldiers and sympathizers from the trench wars in Flanders Fields disaffected with their French-speaking, often anti-Flemish, officers that had been unable to communicate with their troops. From the 1930s, the main party became the Flemish National Union which turned to collaborate with the Nazis during World War II, as they had promised them increased Flemish autonomy. These circumstances would compromise the re-emergence of Flemish nationalism after the war, although only a faction of the broader movement had actually pursued an agenda of collaboration.\n\nThe direct predecessor to the \"Vlaams Blok\" was the People's Union, which was founded in 1954 as the successor to the Christian Flemish People's Union electoral alliance, that had successfully run for election earlier the same year. The party had been careful to choose its leaders from nationalist circles that had not collaborated with the Nazis. While Flemish separatists had been suspicious of the People's Union since its outset, it became clear by the 1970s that the party had moved to a moderate left-liberal course, which led to the defection of its more radical members. The remaining nationalist hardliners finally rejected the party's participation in a new five-party government coalition in 1977, and particularly the Egmont pact, believing it had conceded too much to the francophone government parties.\n\nIn late 1977, the rejection of the Egmont pact by the hardliner faction of the People's Union led to the establishment of two new (short-lived) parties; the radical nationalist Flemish National Party (VNP) and the national liberal Flemish People's Party (VVP), respectively led by Karel Dillen and Lode Claes. The parties contested the 1978 general elections in a coalition called \"Vlaams Blok\", where they won 1.4% of the vote and one seat in the Chamber of Representatives (taken by Dillen). On 28 May 1979, the VNP and VVP finally merged to form a new party named Vlaams Blok, and Dillen was nominated to be the party's leader for life. The party initially recruited its members from Flemish nationalist organisations, such as the \"Taal Aktie Komitee\", \"Voorpost\", \"Were Di\", and the Order of Flemish Militants, while some local groups also simply turned into local branches of the Vlaams Blok. In its inception, the party was widely regarded as a conservative separatist party, rather than an extreme right-wing party.\n\nThe party did not have much electoral success at first, and was stable at one seat in the 1981 general elections. It stood candidates in very few communities, and was active almost entirely in the city of Antwerp. Having been founded mainly as a protest against the Egmont pact, the party revamped and broadened its platform after the pact collapsed. It did not make much progress in the 1985 general elections, and Dillen thus started the so-called \"Operation Rejuvenation\", allowing for an across-the-board change of the party leadership, integrating many leaders of nationalist youth and student organisations into the party council. The party's youth organisation, the \"Vlaams Blok Jongeren\" (VBJ), was founded in 1987 by among others Filip Dewinter and Frank Vanhecke.\n\nStarting in 1983, the Vlaams Blok increasingly began focusing on immigration (inspired by the success of other European right-wing populist parties), and on the international day against racism in 1984 held its first conference to discuss the \"foreigner problem.\" The same year, Dillen proposed a bill in the Chamber of Representatives to offer cash incentive for immigrants to return to their native country. In April 1987, a group around Roger Frankinouille of the only right-wing competitor to the Vlaams Blok, the anti-tax Respect for Labour and Democracy, switched to the party. The party campaigned for the 1987 general election with the slogan \"Own people first\" (\"Eigen volk eerst!\", inspired by French National Front slogan \"The French first\"), and saw a slight victory, winning their first seat in Senate (taken by Dillen), and for the first time two seats in the Chamber (Dewinter and Annemans). The party's shift towards focusing on immigration was however criticised by some Vlaams Blok members, and ultimately also led to the defection of some top party figures. The party nevertheless made a clear choice of focussing on the immigration issue, which had, and would, give results in elections.\n\nThe electoral success of the Vlaams Blok began after the younger generation in the party shifted the party's emphasis from Flemish nationalism (separatism) to the immigration issue. In the 1988 local election in Antwerp the party first started to take off, going from 5.5% of the vote in the city to 17.7%, a success which drew much publicity. On 10 May 1989, based on the Antwerp success, the presidents of all major Belgian parties (including the People's Union) signed a \"cordon sanitaire\" (hygienic barrier), where the parties agreed to never conclude any political agreements with the Vlaams Blok, nor make immigration a political issue. While the Vlaams Blok itself also largely rejected cooperation with other parties, it did increasingly consider such cooperation, particularly in elections in 1994, 1999 and 2000, only to find themselves effectively blocked by the \"cordon sanitaire\". Although intended to keep the Vlaams Blok from gaining political influence, many argued that the agreement in reality gave room for the strong electoral surge for the party, as it was made into what could be seen as the only \"true opposition.\" The agreement was renewed in following years, and Vlaams Blok chairman Karel Dillen was used to call it the \"insurance policy\" of his party;\n\nIn December 1988, a major split occurred in the party, when a group who opposed the \"Operation Rejuvenation\" tried to squeeze the Dewinter-VBJ faction out of the party leadership. Led by Geert Wouters, he accused Dewinter's faction of being \"Lepenists\", and of attempting to sideline the Flemish question to rather favour the immigration question. Dillen however sided with Dewinter, and Wouters and his group left the party and founded the nationalist pressure group called the Nationalist Association-Dutch People’s Movement. In 1989, the party won a seat in the Brussels city council, as well as in the European Parliament. There, the Vlaams Blok agreed to form a parliamentary group together with the French National Front and the German The Republicans, called the Technical Group of the European Right. The group lacked an ideological coherence (stemming in part from Le Pen's support for a Belgian state nationalism), and was largely organised on pragmatic grounds simply to get financial support.\n\nIn the 1991 general election, the Vlaams Blok for the first time surpassed the People's Union, going from two to 12 seats in the Chamber, and from one to five seats in the Senate, in what was afterwards referred to by its opponents as \"Black Sunday\". In the following years, the party saw a systematic upwards trend in all elections it participated in. In July 1992, the first Vlaams Blok motion was accepted in the Flemish Parliament, which rejected the right of francophone inhabitants in Flemish Brabant and Voeren to vote for Wallon institutions. In late 1992, it was announced that Neel, a popular Antwerp city councillor for 22 years for the Socialist Party went over to the Vlaams Blok, thereby causing the SP and CVP to lose their majority in the city council. In 1992, the party ideologue Filip Dewinter and chairman Karel Dillen established the party's comprehensive immigration program, titled the 70-point plan. The plan sought to close the borders towards non-European immigrants, gradually repatriate those already in the country, and implement an \"own people first\" principle in all policy areas. Over the course of the 1990s, the party however increasingly distanced itself from the plan as it had alienated the party from gaining political influence, until it was finally officially discarded in 2000.\nIn the 1994 European election, the party doubled its seats (Dillen and Vanhecke) with 12.6% of the vote, but failed to continue a European Right group, due to other nationalist parties having dropped out of the parliament, or refusing to join a group. National Front and Vlaams Blok MEPs nevertheless established an \"alliance\" called The Coordination of the European Right. In 1996, party leader Karel Dillen, who had been nominated to hold his position for life, stepped down and personally appointed Frank Vanhecke as his successor. The choice of Vanhecke was seen a compromise between the Flemish nationalist wing around Annemans and the Lepenist wing around Dewinter, thus avoiding a potential internal struggle. In 1999, elections were scheduled for the European Parliament, the Chamber of Representatives and Senate and the Flemish Parliament, where the Vlaams Blok overtook the position as the third largest Flemish party, winning more than 15% of the vote in all elections, and a total of 45 seats in the various parliaments.\n\nThe Vlaams Blok continued to be particularly strong in and around Antwerp, where it received as much as 33% of the vote in the 2000 local elections. In 2001, the party was forced to alter its political program, as according to the laws for party financing, it was not compatible with the European Treaty on Human Rights. In the 2004 Flemish Parliament election, the party finally became the single largest party group in parliament. The party was invited by the \"formateur\" for government discussions, only to find that its differences with the other parties was insurmountable, resulting in the three traditional parties forming a majority government, retaining the \"cordon sanitaire\". By this time, the party had nevertheless become the very most popular Flemish party in Belgium, being supported by about one in four of the Flemish electorate.\n\nIn October 2000, the Centre for Equal Opportunities and Opposition to Racism, together with the Dutch-speaking Human Rights League in Belgium registered a complaint at the Correctional Court, in which they claimed that three non-profit organisations connected to the Vlaams Blok (its education and research office and the \"National Broadcasting Corporation\") had violated the 1981 anti-racism law. The publications which were referred to included its 1999 election agenda and 1997 party platform. The challenged passages included those where the party called for a separate education system for foreign children, a special tax for employers employing non-European foreigners, and a restriction of unemployment benefits and child allowances for non-European foreigners.\nIn June 2001, the Brussels Correctional Court declared itself incompetent to hear the case, as it related to political misconduct. In February 2003, the Brussels Appellate Court followed and gave a similar judgement. The original plaintiffs then appealed, and the case was sent to the Court of Appeals in Ghent, which upheld the complaint; the Vlaams Blok non-profit organisations were fined, and it was deemed that the Vlaams Blok was an organisation that sanctioned discrimination. The Vlaams Blok lodged an appeal which was rejected, and in November 2004, the ruling was made definite, when it was upheld by the Court of Cassation. The ruling meant that the party would lose access to state funding and access to television, effectively shutting the party down.\n\nThe whole trial was seen by some as a political trial, inspired by the Belgian establishment. The federal parliament had notably amended the Constitution in order to create legal possibilities to condemn the party. The Vlaams Blok also pointed at the problem of political nomination of judges, and again claimed that the lawsuit had been a political process coordinated with the Belgian Ministry of the Interior.\n\nThe leadership of the Vlaams Blok seized the occasion of the ban to dissolve the party, and start afresh under a new name. Five days later, on 14 November, the Vlaams Blok disbanded itself, and a new party with the name \"Vlaams Belang\" was established. (Other proposed names included the Flemish People's Party and Flemish Freedom Front.) The new party instituted a number of changes in its political program, carefully moderating some of the more extreme positions of the former Vlaams Blok. Nevertheless, the party leadership made it clear that the party would fundamentally remain the same.\n\nProfessor Lamine (KUL), a former Vlaams Blok member and \"advisor\" of the party's legal team, claimed that the party, for propaganda reasons, purposely undertook a weak defence, in order to lose the case; \"For the party leaders, losing was much more interesting. Winning just wasn't an option.\" Lamine himself had earlier stated that the party should have carried the trial to the European Court of Human Rights, but Vlaams Blok senator Joris Van Hauthem had already stated in 2005, that; \"If we had gone to Strasbourg [ECHR] based on procedural arguments, we might have had a case. But Lamine already put in a private claim to overturn the Appeals Court verdict, on the basis of substantive arguments. If \"Vlaams Belang\" were to put forth a claim against the verdict as well, at Strasbourg, the Court will bundle both cases. Then we would lose the case for sure. Lamine has thus given us the final blow.\"\n\nThe main ideological and political strategies of the Vlaams Blok started out with its radical nationalist rejection of the People's Union compromise on the Flemish autonomy issue, later to be followed by focus on immigration and security, exploitation of corruption and other scandals, and defense of traditional values. While the party was legitimized first and foremost by its defense of Flemish interests, its voters were mainly motivated by anti-immigration and anti-establishment protest.\n\nThe main issue for the party was Flemish nationalism, and most issues that were added later, were in some way also connected to this. The Flemish nationalism promoted by the party (\"volksnationalisme\") was according to its program \"based on the ethnic community being a naturally occurring entity whose cultural, material, ethical and intellectual interests need to be preserved.\" While the party primarily worked for an independent Flemish state (modeling the split on that of Czechoslovakia), it for a long time also promoted the idea that the new state should merge with the Netherlands, and establish a Dutch-speaking federation (Greater Netherlands). From the 1990s however, the latter idea was downplayed by the party, as the Netherlands then turned into a \"permissive, multicultural and social-democratic state\" according to one scholar (although this Dutch political situation would be sharply overturned in the 2000s).\n\nImmigration became an important issue for the Vlaams Blok from the late 1980s. Interconnected with the Flemish nationalism issue, immigrants were considered to be a threat to the Flemish ethnic community. In 1992, the party established its 70-point plan, which included measures to stop all immigration, return most immigrants to their native countries by force, and legally discriminate against residing migrants in respect of markets such as labour, housing and education. The party's opponents particularly saw its immigration program as a source of claims of racism, and the party thus in its latest years downplayed the relevance of the 70-point plan, and softened its written positions regarding immigration.\n\nConcerns about crime and security was also linked to immigration, as the party particularly blamed Turks and Moroccans for various criminal activity, and sought a zero tolerance approach regarding law and order. The party was also strongly anti-Islamic from early on, and in its 1993 program regarded Islam as \"a doctrine, which preaches holy war, assassination, forced conversions, oppression of women, slavery and extermination of \"infidels\", [which] will automatically lead to what we now call fundamentalism.\" The party was anti-Muslim and portrayed Muslims as fifth column of a cruel and expansionist religion, and after the 1990 Gulf War called on the government to introduce measures to keep Belgium from being Islamised.\n\nThe party was according to political scientist Cas Mudde only very rarely accused of anti-Semitism – and even then, it was strongly condemned by the party leadership. When Roeland Raes cast doubt on the scale of the Holocaust in a television interview in 2001 for instance, the party leadership immediately called an emergency meeting, distanced itself from him and forced him to resign. The party also took screening measures against its local candidates to reveal any possible extremist connections, and rather wanted to risk not being able to fill its lists, rather than filling them with extremists. Particularly, the party wanted to distance itself from Holocaust denial, as it actively sought to reach out to Jewish voters in Antwerp.\n\nAnother element in the ideology of the party was a populist fight against the political establishment, often manifested through political scandals which flourished in 1990s Belgium; including corruption, food and even pedophile scandals. These included the Agusta scandal and the Marc Dutroux affair. The usual suspects were politicians in the three traditional party families; especially the francophone parties.\n\nThe party had no strong economic preferences, and generally supported a mixed economy. While it supported privatisation and tax reductions for small and medium businesses, it also sometimes supported protectionism and defended the welfare state, especially if allocated to the native Flemish population.\n\nThe party was the only major Belgian party that opposed Belgium's membership of the European Union, as well as the idea of a federal Europe itself. It however defended a con-federal Europe based on sovereign culturally homogeneous nation-states. The European issue was however not an issue the party promoted much.\n\nIt also favoured the abolition of the United Nations, citing; \"The illogical composition of the Security Council. The unwieldy bureaucracy. The democratic deficit.\" The party did also not have any faith in such a world community or international legal system, questioning the entire logic behind the UN. It rejected the view of any international consensus about concepts as democracy, justice, freedom and human rights, especially since most of its member countries are non-Western and undemocratic.\n\nThe \"Vlaams Blok\" maintained good contacts with nationalist parties throughout Europe and other countries. The \"Vlaams Blok\" did traditionally have the closest contacts with Dutch and South African far-right groups, including the Dutch Centre Party '86, the Centre Democrats and \"Voorpost\", and the South African Boerestaat Party. In the mid-1980s, it also established close relations particularly with the French National Front, as well as the German People's Union, The Republicans and National Democratic Party of Germany. In the 1990s, it supported the minor Dutch Block party, which had modeled itself directly on the \"Vlaams Blok\".\n\nThe party also became very active in establishing contacts with post-communist parties in Eastern European countries, including the Croatian Party of Rights, Slovak National Party and IMRO – Bulgarian National Movement. While not keeping official contacts, it was in addition very supportive of left-wing nationalist parties such as the Scottish National Party, Irish Sinn Féin and Basque Herri Batasuna. Some of the parties it established contacts with most recently was the Freedom Party of Austria and the Italian Lega Nord, which after a period of distrust, maintained contacts since 2002.\n\nNote that the election results in elections other than those for the Flemish Parliament (and the Dutch-speaking electoral college in the European Parliament) gives a somewhat wrong image of the party's support, given that the party only ran in Flanders, the one half of Belgium.\n\nResults in the Dutch-speaking electoral college is given in the parenthesis.\n\n"}
{"id": "18386007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18386007", "title": "Water Resources Development Act of 2000", "text": "Water Resources Development Act of 2000\n\nThe Water Resources Development Act of 2000 (WRDA 2000), , was enacted by Congress of the United States on December 11, 2000. Most of the provisions of WRDA 2000 are administered by the United States Army Corps of Engineers.\n\nAuthorizes projects for water resources development, conservation, and related purposes at specified water resources projects in Alaska, Arizona, California, the Delaware coast, Florida, Hawaii, Indiana and Kentucky, Kentucky and Ohio, the Ohio River in Kentucky, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia, Louisiana to the Gulf of Mexico, Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Tennessee, Washington, and Wyoming.\n\nDirects a study of, and if feasible, projects for: \n\nAuthorizes certain projects in Louisiana, Minnesota, and Ohio for the beneficial uses of dredged material.\n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1999 to authorize a shore protection project in Washington.\n\nAuthorizes a flood protection project in California.\n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 \n\nAuthorizes studying the feasibility of water resources development projects that will substantially benefit Indian tribes; and are located primarily within Indian country or in proximity to Alaska Native villages. \n\nAuthorizes a program to reduce vandalism and destruction of property at water resources development projects, including awards to those providing information. \n\nAuthorizes participation in the National Recreation Reservation Service and pay the Army's share of activities required to maintain such Service.\n\nAmends Water Resources Development Act of 1996 to adjust and extend permanently the authorization of appropriations for interagency and international support to address problems of national significance to the United States.\n\nAuthorizes areas at Army civil works projects for the reburial of certain Native American remains discovered on project lands.\n\nAmends various WRDA Acts to allow a non-Federal sponsor to include a nonprofit entity, with the consent of the affected local government, in projects for environmental dredging, the lakes program, and environmental improvement.\n\nAuthorizes the Corps of Engineers to provide specialized or technical services to a Federal agency (other than an agency of the Department of Defense) only if the chief executive of the requesting entity submits a request describing the scope of such services, an agreement to reimburse the Corps for their costs; and a certification that such services are not reasonably and quickly available through ordinary business channels. \n\nAuthorizes various funding and cooperative agreement mechanisms with various entities, both Federal and non-Federal. \n\nDirects a program to allow the direct marketing of dredged materials to public agencies and private entities. \n\nDirects a contract with the National Academy of Sciences to study, and make recommendations relating to, the independent peer review of water resources project feasibility reports, including a review of methods for project analysis. \n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1990 \n\nAmends the Flood Control Act of 1948 to increase from $40,000 to $50,000 the maximum expenditure for small flood control projects.\n\nAuthorizes a pilot program to test the design-build method of project delivery on various authorized Corps civil works projects. \n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1999 to add sites in Iowa, Minnesota, New York, Pennsylvania, and Texas to authorized flood mitigation and riverine restoration projects.\n\nModifies the Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway wildlife mitigation project, Alabama and Mississippi, to authorize removal of the wildlife mitigation purpose designation from up to of such project's land, and to take related actions.\n\nModifies funding ratios and agreements on the following projects:\n\nModifies the following projects\n\nDirects construction of an authorized flood control project in Cumberland, Kentucky. \n\nAuthorizes design and construction assistance for recreational facilities at William Jennings Randolph Lake, Maryland and West Virginia; and complete the project for flood damage reduction, Breckenridge, Minnesota, at a specified cost.\n\nAuthorizes the project for navigation, New Madrid County Harbor, Missouri.\n\nAuthorizes a project at Fort Peck Lake, Montana, for the design and construction of a fish hatchery and associated facilities necessary to sustain a multispecies fishery. \n\nDirects maintenance dredging of the Sagamore Creek Channel, New Hampshire.\n\nDirects a study of the Garrison Dam, North Dakota, feature of the project for flood control, Missouri River Basin, to determine if the damage to a certain water transmission line is the result of a design deficiency and, if so, to correct the deficiency.\n\nDeclares specified portions of Erie County, New York, to be nonnavigable waters of the United States, unless the Secretary finds that proposed projects there are not in the public interest.\n\nDeauthorizes specified navigation projects\n\nDirects certain real estate transactions in Connecticut, Illinois, Missouri, Pennsylvania, Louisiana, Michigan, and South Carolina.\n\nAuthorizes projects on the Narraguagus River, Maine, and Cedar Bayou, Texas, to be carried out by the Secretary, but prohibits construction therein until the Secretary determines that the project is technically sound, environmentally acceptable, and economically justified.\n\nContinues project authorizations for: (1) flood control, Sacramento River, California; and (2) flood protection on a portion of such River.\n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1992 to include St. Tammany Parish, Louisiana, within authorized projects to address water quality problems associated with storm water runoffs.\n\nAuthorizes project studies in Florida, Illinois, Oregon, the Lower Mississippi River, the Upper Mississippi River, the Ohio River, Alabama, the Arkansas River, California, the Delaware River, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine and New Hampshire, Massachusetts and New Hampshire, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nevada, New Hampshire, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Wisconsin.\n\nAmends WRDA 1986 \n\nAmends WRDA 1996 \n\nMakes certain competitive bid requirements inapplicable to any contract, agreement, or grant entered into between the Secretary and Marshall University or Juniata College in support of the Army civil works program.\n\nDirects a plan for Corps activities that support the management of Great Lakes fisheries; plan, design, and construct projects to support the restoration of the fishery, ecosystem, and beneficial uses of the Great Lakes; and a cooperative agreement with the Great Lakes Fishery Commission or any other agency established to facilitate active State participation in Great Lakes management. \n\nDirects assessment of the condition of water resources and related ecosystems in New England to identify problems and needs for restoring, preserving, and protecting New England water resources, ecosystems, wildlife, and fisheries. \n\nAmends WRDA 1992 to redefine areas authorized for the construction of: (1) a visitors center at Fort Smith, Arkansas; and (2) an interpretive site in Vicksburg, Mississippi.\n\nAuthorizes participation in the planning and management associated with the CALFED Bay- Delta Program, an ecosystem restoration program for the San Joaquin and Sacramento River basins, California. \n\nDirects projects for \n\nDirects reimbursement of the non-Federal interest for certain costs under the project for navigation, Port Everglades Harbor, Florida.\n\nDirects a program to convey to eligible property owners the right to maintain existing habitation structures on land acquired by the United States for the Lake Sidney Lanier, Georgia, project; or release such owners from a related easement prohibition as it applies to existing structures.\n\nAuthorizes certain environmental quality improvements at Ballard's Island, Illinois, if the Secretary determines that such work is integral to the project.\n\nDirects a proposed comprehensive plan for restoring, preserving, and protecting the Illinois River basin using new technologies and innovative approaches. \n\nDirects (1), if the work is determined integral, the non-Federal costs for certain aquatic ecosystem restoration at Koontz Lake, Indiana; (2) investigate the contamination of the well system in West View Shores, Maryland; and (3) carry out the project for flood damage reduction and environmental restoration at Muddy River, Brookline and Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nProhibits requiring a cargo vessel equipped with bow thrusters and friction winches traversing the Soo Locks in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, to provide more than two crew members to serve as line handlers.\n\nDirects an inventory of dams constructed in Minnesota by the Works Progress Administration, the Works Projects Administration, and the Civilian Conservation Corps, and to assess their condition and need for rehabilitation. \n\nDesignates a specified portion of the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, Minnesota, as the Bruce F. Vento Unit of the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness.\n\nDirects participation in restoration projects for critical coastal wetlands and coastal barrier islands in Mississippi. \n\nDirects participation in the project at Las Vegas Wash and Lake Mead in accordance with a specified plan. \n\nDirects a research program to evaluate opportunities to manage peak flood flows in urbanized New Jersey watersheds. \n\nRequires technical assistance to Yonkers, New York, relating to the dredging of the Nepperhan River outlet.\n\nDirects a study, strategy, and project to reduce flood damages and create wildlife habitat in the Upper Mohawk River Basin, New York.\n\nDirects the Secretary to carry out certain flood damage reduction projects in eastern North Carolina and Ohio. \n\nDirects technical assistance to non-Federal interests to evaluate the structural integrity of the bulkhead system along the Cuyahoga River in the vicinity of Cleveland, Ohio.\n\nDirects a long-term lease with the city of Crowder, Oklahoma, under which the city may develop, operate, and maintain as a public park all or a portion of Crowder Point on Lake Eufaula, Oklahoma.\n\nDirects the Secretary to studies and ecosystem restoration projects for the Lower Columbia River and Tillamook Bay estuaries, Oregon and Washington. \n\nAuthorizes certain real estate transactions at Raystown Lake project, Pennsylvania and in Aberdeen, Washington.\n\nDirects a plan to support ecosystem restoration of the Charleston Harbor estuary, South Carolina.\n\nAmends WRDA 1999 relating to the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, Lower Brule Sioux Tribe, and South Dakota terrestrial wildlife habitat restoration program to: (1) fund such program through funds made available under the Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program and through grants to such tribes and South Dakota; (2) require consultation with such tribes in expending amounts from trust funds established for such program; (3) require the Secretary to lease to South Dakota in perpetuity certain recreation areas within the boundaries of the program; (4) require the Secretary to clean up each open dump and hazardous waste site identified on program lands and recreation areas; (5) require such tribes and South Dakota to establish the Cultural Resources Advisory Commission to advise with respect to cultural resources on such lands and recreation areas; (6) require the Secretary to inventory and stabilize each Commission-identified cultural and historic site; (7) direct the Secretary to complete a study, and take appropriate remedial action, with respect to sediment contamination in the Cheyenne River (authorizing appropriations for such purpose); and (8) provide additional authorizations of appropriations for activities added under this section, with specified allocations among such tribes and South Dakota.\n\nDirects a limited reevaluation report of the project for flood control, Horn Lake Creek and tributaries, Tennessee and Mississippi.\n\nAuthorizes critical restoration projects in the Lake Champlain watershed, Vermont and New York and Puget Sound, Washington, and adjacent waters. \n\nDirects a study evaluating the structural integrity and need for modification or removal of each of ten specified dams in Vermont.\n\nDirects a feasibility study of providing coastal erosion protection for the tribal reservation of the Shoalwater Bay Tribe on Willapa Bay, Washington.\n\nModifies the project for flood control, Bluestone Lake, Ohio River basin, West Virginia, to authorize construction of hydroelectric generation facilities by the Tri-Cities Power Authority of West Virginia.\n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1988 to direct the preservation of the Jenkins House within the Lesage/Greenbottom Swamp, West Virginia.\n\nAuthorizes planning and design assistance to non-Federal projects located along the Tug Fork River, West Virginia.\n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1982 to include environmental restoration within authorized activities under a pilot program for providing certain assistance to non-Federal interests in southern West Virginia.\n\nDirects an agreement with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) for providing NOAA with data on the results of any navigation channel hydrographic survey conducted by the Corps.\n\nDirects the Tennessee Valley Authority to release a specified use restriction with respect to lands in Decatur, Alabama, previously conveyed to the Ingalls Shipbuilding Corporation.\n\nApproves the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan, as contained in a specified report dated April 1, 1999, as a framework for modifications and operational changes to the Central and Southern Florida Project that are needed to restore, preserve, and protect the South Florida ecosystem while providing for other water-related needs of the region, including water supply and flood protection. Directs the Secretary to integrate such Project with ongoing Federal and State projects and activities under WRDA 1996. Authorizes the Secretary to implement Project modifications that are described in the Plan and will produce a substantial benefit to the restoration, preservation, and protection of the South Florida ecosystem. Approves with limitations the Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge and the Southern Corkscrew Regional Ecosystem.\n\nProhibits any appropriation from being made for a Plan project until the President and the Governor of Florida enter into a binding agreement to ensure that water made available under the Plan is not otherwise used until sufficient reservations of water for the restoration of the natural system exist. Provides for enforcement of such requirement.\n\nRequires the Secretary and the non-Federal sponsor to develop project implementation reports.\n\nProhibits Plan implementation from reducing current flood protection levels.\n\nDirects the Secretary and Governor to develop an agreement for resolving disputes associated with Plan implementation.\n\nRequires the Secretary, Secretary of the Interior, and Governor to establish an independent scientific review panel to review the Plan's progress toward achieving its natural system restoration goals. \n\nRequires the Secretary to report to Congress a determination as to whether the ongoing Biscayne Aquifer Storage and Recovery Program in Dade County, Florida, has a substantial benefit to the restoration, preservation, and protection of the South Florida ecosystem.\n\nExpresses the sense of Congress that\n\nEstablishes the: (1) North Dakota Missouri River Trust committee; and (2) Missouri River Task Force. Requires the Task Force to: (1) prepare and vote on approval of a plan for the use of funds for conservation practices, the control and removal of sediment, and related protection measures for the Missouri River; and (2) review and recommend to the Secretary projects for meeting plan goals and projects critical to plan implementation. Requires the plan to be made available for public review and comment prior to implementation. Directs the Secretary, after plan approval, to identify critical plan restoration projects. Requires the Secretary to ensure that not less than 30 percent of critical project funds are used exclusively for projects that are either within the boundary of an Indian reservation or administered by an Indian tribe.\n\nRequires the Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior to prohibit the issuance of new cabin site leases within the Charles M. Russell National Wildlife Refuge, Montana, except as necessary to consolidate with, or substitute for, existing cabin site leases. Requires the Secretary to determine cabin sites that are not suitable for conveyance to a lessee for any reason that adversely impacts the future habitability of the cabin sites, and to offer to such lessees the opportunity to acquire a comparable cabin within the same area. Prohibits the conveyance of cabin sites determined to be unsuitable.\n\nAllows lessees that do not offer to lease a comparable site or who decline such an offer to continue to lease their current site for the remainder of such lease through 2010. \n\nAuthorizes sale of cabin sites that are not conveyed and have not been determined to be unsuitable for habitation. Requires proceeds from sold cabin sites to be used to acquire from willing sellers other property within or adjacent to the Refuge that would be suitable to: (1) achieve Refuge wildlife conservation purposes; (2) protect local fish and wildlife habitat; (3) enhance public opportunities for Refuge hunting, fishing, and other wildlife- dependent activities; (4) improve Refuge management; or (5) reduce Federal expenditures associated with administration of the cabin site leases.\n\nEstablishes the: (1) Missouri River Trust committee; and (2) Missouri River Task Force. Requires the Task Force to: (1) prepare and vote on approval of a plan for the use of funds for conservation practices along the Missouri River watershed, including sediment control and removal, protection of Indian, historical and cultural sites, and erosion control; and (2) review and recommend to the Secretary projects critical to plan implementation. Requires the plan to be made available for public review and comment prior to implementation. Directs the Secretary, after plan approval, to identify critical plan restoration projects. Requires the Secretary to ensure that not less than 30 percent of critical project funds are used exclusively for projects that are either within the boundary of an Indian reservation or administered by an Indian tribe.\n\n"}
{"id": "39070641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39070641", "title": "Who, whom?", "text": "Who, whom?\n\nWho, whom? (, \"Kto kogo?\") is a Bolshevist principle or slogan which was formulated by Lenin in 1921.\n\nLenin is supposed to have stated at the second All-Russian Congress of Political Education Departments, on 17 October 1921, \n\nLeon Trotsky used the shortened \"who whom\" formulation in his 1925 article, \"Towards Capitalism or Towards Socialism?\"\n\nThe shortened form was invoked by Joseph Stalin in 1929, in a speech to the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, which also gave the formula its \"aura of hard-line coercion\" (while Lenin's phrase indicated a willingness to embrace economic competition)\n\nIt came to be used as a formula describing the inevitability of class struggle, i.e. who (which of two antagonists) will dominate the other.\nIn this view, all compromises and promises between enemies are just expedients–tactical manoeuvres in the struggle for mastery.\n"}
{"id": "13200141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13200141", "title": "Women in government", "text": "Women in government\n\nWomen in government in the modern era are under-represented in most countries worldwide. Women have inadequate opportunities in social participation, especially in striving for political rights and power in the government and different institutions. Social status of women is relatively poor compared to men in different countries around the world, that contributes to generating the atmosphere of inferiority of women in the society. This historical tendency still persists, although women are increasingly being politically elected to be heads of state and government. As of January 2017, the global participation rate of women in national-level parliaments is 23.3%. In 2013, women accounted for 8% of all national leaders and 2% of all presidential posts. A number of countries are exploring measures that may increase women's participation in government at all levels, from the local to the national. However more and more women are pursuing leadership positions in the present day.\n\nIncreasing women's representation in the government can empower women and is necessary to achieve gender parity. This notion of women's empowerment is rooted in the human capabilities approach, in which individuals are empowered to choose the functioning that they deem valuable.\n\nWomen, as the conventional primary caretakers of children, often have a more prominent role than men in advocating for children, resulting in a \"double dividend\" in terms of the benefits of women's representation. Female representatives not only advance women's rights, but also advance the rights of children. In national legislatures, there is a notable trend of women advancing gender and family-friendly legislation. This advocacy has been seen in countries ranging from France, Sweden and the Netherlands, to South Africa, Rwanda, and Egypt. Furthermore, a number of studies from both industrialized and developed countries indicate that women in local government tend to advance social issues. In India, for instance, greater women's representation has corresponded with a more equitable distribution of community resources, including more gender-sensitive spending on programs related to health, nutrition, and education.\n\nIn 1954, the United Nations \"Convention on the Political Rights of Women\" went into force, enshrining women's equal rights to vote, hold office, and access public services as provided for male citizens within national laws.\n\nAs of October 25, 2013, the global average of women in national assemblies is 21.5%. At the same time, large differences exist between countries, e.g. Sri Lanka has quite low female participation rates in parliament compared with Denmark, Sweden and Norway, where female representation rates are among the highest. Four of the top ten countries in 2017 were in South America (Bolivia, Cuba, Nicaragua and Mexico), and the Americas have seen the greatest aggregate change over the past 20 years.\n\nOut of 189 countries, listed in descending order by the percentage of women in the lower or single house, the top 10 countries with the greatest representation of women in national parliaments are (figures reflect information as of July 1, 2017; a – represents a unicameral legislature with no upper house):\n\nNew figures are available for up to February 2014 from International IDEA, Stockholm University and Inter-Parliamentary Union. (2014) at http://www.quotaproject.org/quotas.cfm\n\nAlthough over 60% of countries have reached at least 10% women in their national legislature, far fewer have crossed the 20% and 30% barriers. By February 2006, only about 10% of sovereign nations had more than 30% women in parliament. The major English-speaking democracies are placed mostly in the top 40% of the ranked countries. New Zealand ranks at position 27 with women comprising 32.2% of its parliament. Australia (24.7% in the lower house, 38.2% in the upper house) and Canada (24.7% lower house, 37.9% upper house) rank at position 46 out of 189 countries. The United Kingdom is ranked at 58 (22.5% lower house, 22.6% upper house), while the United States ranks 78 (17.8% in the lower house, 20.0% in the upper house). It should be noted that not all of these lower and/or upper houses in national parliaments are democratically elected; for example, in Canada members of the upper house (the Senate) are appointed.\n\nPaxton describes three factors that are the basis for why national level representation has become much larger over the past several decades. The first is the changing structural and economic conditions of nations, which says that educational advancements along with an increase in women's participation in the labor force encourages representation. The second is the political factor; representation of women in office being based on a proportionality system. Some voting systems are built so that a party that gains 25% of the votes gains 25% of the seats. In these processes, a political party feels obligated to balance the representation within their votes between genders, increasing women's activity in political standing. A plurality-majority system, such as the one the United States, United Kingdom, and India has, only allows single candidate elections, and thus allows political parties to entirely dictate regions' representatives even if they only control a small majority of the vote. Last, there is the ideological disposition of a country; the concept that the cultural aspects of women's roles or positions in the places they live dictate where they stand in that society, ultimately either helping or handicapping those women from entering political positions.\n\nGlobally, there have been 4 general pathways that have lead women into political office:\n\n\nWomen face numerous obstacles in achieving representation in governance.\n\nGender inequality within families, inequitable division of labor within households, and cultural attitudes about gender roles further subjugate women and serve to limit their representation in public life. Societies that are highly patriarchal often have local power structures that make it difficult for women to combat. Thus, their interests are often not represented or under-represented.\n\nThere have been many arguments saying the plurality-majority voting system is a disadvantage to the chance that women get into office. Andrew Reynolds brings forth one of these arguments by stating: \"Plurality-majority single-member-district systems, whether of the Anglo-American first-past-the-post (FPTP) variety, the Australian preference ballot alternative vote (AV), or the French two-round system (TRS), are deemed to be particularly unfavorable to women's chances of being elected to office\". Andrew believes that the best systems are list-proportional systems. \"In these systems of high proportionality between seats won and votes cast, small parties are able to gain representation and parties have an incentive to broaden their overall electoral appeal by making their candidate lists as diverse as possible\".\n\nEven once elected, women tend to hold lesser valued cabinet ministries or similar positions. These are sometimes described as \"soft industries\" and include health, education, and welfare. Far less often do women hold executive decision-making authority in more powerful domains or those that are associated with traditional notions of masculinity (such as finance and the military). Typically, the more powerful the institution, the less likely it is that women's interests will be represented. Additionally, in more autocratic nations, women are less likely to have their interests represented. Many women attain political standing due to kinship ties, as they have male family members who are involved in politics. These women tend to be from higher income, higher status families and thus may not be as focused on the issues faced by lower income families. In The United States, the lower end of the professional ladder contains a higher proportion of women while the upper level contains a higher proportion of men. Research shows that women are underrepresented in head positions in state agencies making up only 18% of congress and 15% of corporate board positions. When women do gain any level of representation it is in the fields of health, welfare, and labor. They are seen to be addressing issues labeled as feminine.\n\nAdditionally, women running for public office typically gain additional, unnecessary scrutiny on their private lives. For instance, fashion choices of politically active women are often picked apart by the media. In these \"analyses\" women rarely gain approval from those in the media, who usually say they either they show too much skin or too little, or perhaps that they either look too feminine or too masculine. Sylvia Bashevkin also notes that their romantic lives are often subject of much interest to the general population, perhaps more so than their political agenda or stances on issues. She points out that those who \"appear to be sexually active outside a monogamous heterosexual marriage run into particular difficulties, since they tend to be portrayed as vexatious vixens\" who are more interested in their private romantic lives than in their public responsibilities. If they are in a monogamous, married relationship but have children, then their fitness for office becomes a question of how they manage being a politician while taking care of their children, something that a male politician would rarely, if ever, be asked about.\n\nA 2017 study found that female Republican candidates fare worse in elections than Republican men and Democratic women.\n\nIn Canada, there is evidence that female politicians face gender stigma from male members of the political parties to which they belong which can undermine the ability of women to reach or maintain leadership roles. Pauline Marois, leader of the Parti Québécois (PQ) and the official opposition of the National Assembly of Quebec, was the subject of a claim by Claude Pinard, a PQ \"backbencher\", that many Quebecers do not support a female politician: \"I believe that one of her serious handicaps is the fact she's a woman [...] I sincerely believe that a good segment of the population won't support her because she's a woman\". A 2000 study that analyzed 1993 election results in Canada found that among \"similarly situated women and men candidates\", women actually had a small vote advantage. The study showed that neither voter turnout nor urban/rural constituencies were factors that help or hurt a female candidate, but \"office-holding experience in non-political organizations made a modest contribution to women's electoral advantage\".\n\nBruce M. Hicks, an electoral studies researcher at Université de Montréal, states that evidence shows that female candidates begin with a head start in voters' eyes of as much as 10 per cent, and that female candidates are often more favorably associated by voters with issues like health care and education. The electorate's perception that female candidates have more proficiency with traditional women's spheres such as education and health care presents a possibility that gender stereotypes can work in a female candidate's favor, at least among the electorate. In politics, however, Hicks points out that sexism is nothing new:\nWithin Quebec itself, Don McPherson pointed out that Pinard himself has enjoyed greater electoral success with Pauline Marois as party leader than under a previous male party leader, when Pinard failed to be elected in his riding. Demographically, Pinard's electoral riding is rural, with \"relatively older, less-well educated voters\".\n\nWomen's suffrage is the right of women to vote in elections. Most countries enacted women's suffrage in the first half of the 20th century. New Zealand was the first country to grant women the right to vote. On the 19th of September in 1893, New Zealand became the first country that allowed women the right to participate in elections. The change in the law was a result of a petition headed by Kate Shepherd on behalf of the Women's Temperance Union. The petition was signed by 32000 women, almost one in four of New Zealand women at the time.\n\nIn Europe, the last countries to enact it were Switzerland and Liechtenstein. In Switzerland, women gained the right to vote in federal elections in 1971; but in the canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden women obtained the right to vote on local issues only in 1991, when the canton was forced to do so by the Federal Supreme Court of Switzerland. In Liechtenstein, women were given the right to vote by the women's suffrage referendum of 1984. Three prior referendums held in 1968, 1971 and 1973 had failed to secure women's right to vote.\n\nAfter Saudi Arabia granted women the same voting rights as men have in December 2015, Vatican City became the only country in the world where women are fully and exclusively denied the right to vote.\n\nWomen's participation in formal politics is lower than men's throughout the world. The argument put forth by scholars Jacquetta Newman and Linda White is that women's participation in the realm of high politics is crucial if the goal is to affect the quality of public policy. As such, the concept of \"mirror representation\" aims to achieve gender parity in public office. In other words, mirror representation says that the proportion of women in leadership should match the proportion of women in the population that they govern. Mirror representation is premised on the assumption that elected officials of a particular gender would likely support policies that seek to benefit constituents of the same gender.\n\nA key critique is that mirror representation assumes that all members of a particular sex operate under the rubric of a shared identity, without taking into consideration other factors such as age, education, culture, or socioeconomic status. However, proponents of mirror representation argue that women have a different relationship with government institutions and public policy than that of men, and therefore merit equal representation on this facet alone. This feature is based on the historical reality that women, regardless of background, have largely been excluded from influential legislative and leadership positions. As Sylvia Bashevkin notes, \"representative democracy seems impaired, partial, and unjust when women, as a majority of citizens, fail to see themselves reflected in the leadership of their polity.\" In fact, the issue of participation of Women in politics is of such importance that the United Nations has identified gender equality in representation (i.e. mirror representation) as a goal in the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) and the Beijing Platform for Action. Besides seeking equality, the goal of mirror representation is also to recognize the significance of women's involvement in politics, which subsequently legitimizes said involvement.\n\nThere have been differing results between studies that looked at the significance of women's representation on actual policy outcomes. Though women in the United States are more likely to identify as feminists, a 2014 study looking in the United States finds \"no effect of gender of the mayor on policy outcomes.\" A 2012 study finds mixed evidence that the share of female councilors in Sweden affected conditions for women citizens, such as women's income, unemployment, health, and parental leave. A 2015 study in Sweden said that: \"The findings show that female legislators defend feminist interests more than their male colleagues but that they only marginally respond to women's electoral preferences.\" A 2016 study looking at African politicians finds \"gender differences in policy priorities [to be] quite small on average, vary across policy domains and countries\".\n\nMirror representation stems from the barriers female political candidates often face, these include: sex stereotyping, political socialization, lack of preparation for political activity, and balancing work and family. In the media, women are often asked how they would balance the responsibilities of elected office with those to their families, something men are never asked.\n\nSex stereotyping. Sex stereotyping assumes that masculine and feminine traits are intertwined with leadership. Hence, the bias leveled against women stems from the perception that femininity inherently produces weak leadership. Due to the aggressive and competitive nature of politics, many insist that participation in elected office requires masculine traits. Sex stereotyping is far from being a historical narrative. The pressure is on female candidates (and not male ones) to enhance their masculine traits in order to garner support from voters who identify with socially constructed gender roles.\n\nPolitical socialization. Political socialization is the idea that, during childhood, people are indoctrinated into socially constructed norms of politics. In the case of women's representation in government, it says that sex stereotyping begins at an early age and affects the public's disposition on which genders are fit for public office. Socialization agents can include family, school, higher education, mass media, and religion. Each of these agents plays a pivotal role in either fostering a desire to enter politics, or dissuading one to do so.\n\nGenerally, girls tend to see politics as a \"male domain\". Newman and White suggest that women who run for political office have been \"socialized toward an interest in and life in politics\" and that \"many female politicians report being born into political families with weak gender-role norms.\"\n\nWomen running for U.S senate are often underrepresented in news coverage. The way male and females are depicted in media has an effect of how female's candidates gets elected in to public office. Female candidates get treated differently in the media then their male counterparts in the U.S senate elections, Women receive less news coverage also the coverage they do receive concentrates more on their viability and less on their issue positions, causes female candidates to be overlooked and underrated during elections, which is an obstacle for women running for U.S senate.\n\nLack of preparation for political activity. An aftereffect of political socialization is that it determines how inclined women are to pursue careers that may be compatible with formal politics. Careers in law, business, education, and government, professions in which women happen to be minorities, are common occupations for those that later decide to enter public office.\n\nBalancing work and family. The work life balance is invariably more difficult for women, because they are generally expected by society to act as the primary caregivers for children and maintainers of the home. Due to these demands, it is assumed that women would choose to delay political aspirations until their children are older. Also, a women's desire for a career in politics along with the extent that the respondent feels her family duties might inhibit her ability to be an elected official. Research has shown that new female politicians in Canada and the U.S. are older than their male counterparts. Conversely, a woman may be pushed to remain childless in order to seek political office.\n\nInstitutional barriers may also pose as a hindrance for balancing a political career and family. For instance, in Canada, Members of Parliament do not contribute to Employment Insurance; therefore, they are not entitled to paternity benefits. Such lack of parental leave would undoubtedly be a reason for women to delay seeking electoral office. Furthermore, mobility plays a crucial role in the work-family dynamic. Elected officials are usually required to commute long distances to and from their respective capital cities, which can be a deterrent for women seeking political office.\n\nThe United Nations has identified six avenues by which female participation in politics and government may be strengthened. These avenues are: equalization of educational opportunities, quotas for female participation in governing bodies, legislative reform to increase focus on issues concerning women and children, financing gender-responsive budgets to equally take into account the needs of men and women, increasing the presence of sex-disaggregated statistics in national research/data, and furthering the presence and agency of grassroots women's empowerment movements.\n\nWomen with formal education (at any level) are more likely to delay marriage and subsequent childbirth, be better informed about infant and child nutrition, and ensure childhood immunization. Children of mothers with formal education are better nourished and have higher survival rates. Education is a vital tool for any person in society to better themselves in their career path, and equalization of educational opportunities for boys and girls may take the form of several initiatives:\n\n\nMark P. Jones, in reference to Norris's \"Legislative Recruitment\", states that: \"Unlike other factors that have been identified as influencing the level of women's legislative representation, such as a country's political culture and level of economic development, institutional rules are relatively easy to change\".\n\nIn an article about the exclusion of Women from politics in southern Africa, Amanda Gouws said \"The biggest hurdles to overcome for women are still on the local level where both men and women are often recruited from the communities and have limited political skills\". The level of education in these local governments or, for that matter, the people in those positions of power, are substandard.\n\nOne example of the hurdles women face in receiving good education comes from Beijing. \"Most women who attended the NGO Forums accompanying the UN conferences, which are for government delegations (though increasingly many governments include activists and NGO members among their official delegates), were middle-class educated women from INGOS, donors, academics, and activists\". Lydia Kompe, a well-known South African activist, was one of these rural women. She noted that she felt overwhelmed and completely disempowered. In the beginning, she did not think she could finish her term of office because of her lack of education. Manisha Desai explains that: \"There is an inequality simply around the fact that the UN system and its locations say a lot about the current focus of those systems, such positions being in the US and Western Europe allow easier access to those women in the area. It is also important to note that institutions affect the cultural propensity to elect women candidates in different ways in different parts of the world.\"\n\nThe study of the history of women's representation has been a major contribution in helping scholars view such concepts. Andrew Reynolds states: \"historical experience often leads to gender advancement, and political liberalization enables women to mobilize within the public sphere\". He argues that we will see a larger number of women in higher office positions in established democracy than in democracies that are developing, and \"the more illiberal a state is, the fewer women will be in positions of power\". As countries open education systems to women, and more women participate in historically male dominated fields, it is possible to see a shift in political views regarding women in government.\n\nQuotas are explicit requirements on the number of women in political positions. \"Gender quotas for the election of legislators have been used since the late 1970s by a few political parties (via the party charter) in a small number of advanced industrial democracies; such examples would be like Germany and Norway\". Andrew Reynolds says there is \"an increasing practice in legislatures for the state, or the parties themselves, to utilize formal or informal quota mechanisms to promote women as candidates and MPs\". The statistics surrounding quota systems have been examined thoroughly by academia.\n\nTypes of quotas include:\nQuotas may be utilized during different stages of the political nomination/selection process to address different junctures at which women may be inherently disadvantaged:\nQuota usage can have marked effects on female representation in governance. In 1995, Rwanda ranked 24th in terms of female representation, and jumped to 1st in 2003 after quotas were introduced. Similar effects can be seen in Argentina, Iraq, Burundi, Mozambique, and South Africa, for example. Of the top-ranked 20 countries in terms of female representation in government, 17 of these countries utilize some sort of quota system to ensure female inclusion. Though such inclusion is mainly instituted at the national level, there have been efforts in India to addresses female inclusion at the subnational level, through quotas for parliamentary positions.\n\nWith quotas drastically changing the number of female representatives in political power, a bigger picture unravels. Though countries are entitled to regulate their own laws, the quota system helps explain social and cultural institutions and their understandings and overall view of women in general. \"At first glance, these shifts seem to coincide with the adoption of candidate gender quotas around the globe as quotas have appeared in countries in all major world regions with a broad range of institutional, social, economic and cultural characteristics\".\n\nQuotas have been quite useful in allowing women to gain support and opportunities when attempting to achieve seats of power, but some see this as a wrongdoing. Drude Dahlerup and Lenita Freidenvall argue this in their article \"Quotas as a 'Fast Track' to Equal Representation for Women\" by stating: \"From a liberal perspective, quotas as a specific group right conflict with the principle of equal opportunity for all. Explicitly favoring certain groups of citizens, i.e. women, means that not all citizens (men) are given an equal chance to attain a political career\". Dahlerup and Freidenvall claim that even though quotas create theoretical imbalance in opportunity for men and that they necessarily break the concept of \"classical liberal notion of equality\", quotas are almost required to bring the relation of women in politics to a higher state, whether that is through equal opportunity or just equal results. \"According to this understanding of women's under-representation, mandated quotas for the recruitment and election of female candidates, possibly also including time-limit provisions, are needed\".\n\nThe introduction of gender quotas in the electoral process has spurred controversy from male politicians, resulting in resistance to the acceptance of quotas in the political realm. The mobilization of women in politics has been hindered by means of preserving male political survival, and to avoid political interference with male power and domination. Moreover, the implementation of gender quotas has caused the male candidate population to decrease in order for their female counterparts to participate, and this is commonly referred to as the “negative sum,” and this can result in a more qualified male being rejected to allow a female politician to participate. Furthermore, in the case of Argentina, which is currently mandated for a 30% female party at each level of government, saw the introduction of the 'quota women'; females that were less experienced, and only elected due to the legal requirement of quotas. The introduction of the 'quota women' has triggered what political scientists refer to as a 'mandate effect,' where quota women feel obligated to represent solely the interests of the female public. Moreover, in order to preserve male political survival, “domination techniques” have been utilized to both exclude and delegitimize female representation in politics, and this can be depicted in the case of Argentina, where it took several elections to gain 35% of female representatives. With the increase of female representation in Argentina, issues that were rarely discussed before became paramount in debates, such as “penal laws, sexual assault laws, and laws on maternity leave and pregnancy… sexual education, [and] emergency contraceptive.”\n\nSubstantive representation contains two distinct parts: both the process and outcome of having female politicians. Substantive representation based on the process is concerned with the gendered perspective, themes that female representatives discuss in political debates, and the impact they have on the creation of bills. Likewise, this process also includes the networking between women in government and female organizations. Substantive representation by outcome relates to the success of passing legislation that enables gender equality to both public and private issues. Moreover, substantive representation as process does not always result in substantive representation by outcome; the implementation of gender quotas and female representation does not directly instigate an influx in legislation.\n\nCritical mass theory has correlations with both substantive representation as process and substantive representation as outcome. Critical mass theory suggests that once a certain percentage of women representatives has been reached, that female legislators will be able to create and enable transformative policies, and this has the potential to place pressure on quota women to act on behalf of all women. One paramount criticism of critical mass theory is its attention to numbers, and the understanding that quota women are to represent women collectively. Furthermore, the representation of women as a collective group remains controversial, as “[if] she is a white straight, middle-class mother, she cannot speak for African-American women, or poor women, or lesbian women on the basis of her own experience anymore than men can speak for women merely on the basis of theirs.”\n\nA 2018 study in \"The Journal of Politics\" found that the implementation of electoral gender quotas which substantially increased women's representation in parliament led to increased government expenditures toward public health and relative decreases in military spending.\n\nThere have been numerous occasions where equal legislation has benefited the overall progression of women equality on a global scale. Though women have entered legislation, the overall representation within higher ranks of government is not being established. \"Looking at ministerial positions broken down by portfolio allocation, one sees a worldwide tendency to place women in the softer sociocultural ministerial positions rather than in the harder and politically more prestigious positions of economic planning, national security, and foreign affairs, which are often seen as stepping-stones to national leader ship\".\n\nLegislative agendas, some pushed by female political figures, may focus on several key issues to address ongoing gender disparities:\n\nSex-responsive budgets address the needs and interests of different individuals and social groups, maintaining awareness of sexual equality issues within the formation of policies and budgets. Such budgets are not necessarily a 50–50 male-female split, but accurately reflect the needs of each sex (such as increased allocation for women's reproductive health. Benefits of gender-responsive budgets include:\nA sex-responsive budget may also work to address issues of unpaid care work and caring labor gaps.\n\nCurrent research which uses sex-aggregated statistics may underplay or minimize the quantitative presentation of issues such as maternal mortality, violence against women, and girls' school attendance. Sex-disaggregated statistics are lacking in the assessment of maternal mortality rates, for example. Prior to UNICEF and UNIFEM efforts to gather more accurate and comprehensive data, 62 countries had no recent national data available regarding maternal mortality rates. Only 38 countries have sex-disaggregated statistics available to report frequency of violence against women. 41 countries collect sex-disaggregated data on school attendance, while 52 countries assess sex-disaggregated wage statistics.\n\nThough the representation has become a much larger picture, it is important to notice the inclination of political activity emphasizing women over the years in different countries. \"Although women's representation in Latin America, Africa, and the West progressed slowly until 1995, in the most recent decade, these regions show substantial growth, doubling their previous percentage\".\n\nResearching politics on a global scale does not just reinvent ideas of politics, especially towards women, but brings about numerous concepts. Sheri Kunovich and Pamela Paxton research method, for example, took a different path by studying \"cross-national\" implications to politics, taking numerous countries into consideration. This approach helps identify research beforehand that could be helpful in figuring out commodities within countries and bringing about those important factors when considering the overall representation of women. \"At the same time, we include information about the inclusion of women in the political parties of each country\". Research within gender and politics has taken a major step towards a better understanding of what needs to be better studied. Dr. Mona L. Krook states: These kinds of studies help establish that generalizing countries together is far too limiting to the overall case that we see across countries and that we can take the information we gain from these studies that look at countries separately and pose new theories as to why countries have the concepts they do; this helps open new reasons and thus confirms that studies need to be performed over a much larger group of factors. Authors and researchers such as Mala Htun and Laurel Weldon also state that single comparisons of established and developed countries is simply not enough but is also surprisingly hurtful to the progress of this research, they argue that focusing on a specific country \"tends to duplicate rather than interrogate\" the overall accusations and concepts we understand when comparing political fields. They continue by explaining that comparative politics has not established sex equality as a major topic of discussion among countries. This research challenges the current standings as to what needs to be the major focus in order to understand gender in politics.\n\nA 2018 study in the \"American Economic Journal: Economic Policy\" found that for German local elections \"female council candidates advance more from their initial list rank when the mayor is female. This effect spreads to neighboring municipalities and leads to a rising share of female council members.\"\n\nWomen's informal collectives are crucial to improving the standard of living for women worldwide. Collectives can address such issues as nutrition, education, shelter, food distribution, and generally improved standard of living. Empowering such collectives can increase their reach to the women most in need of support and empowerment. Though women's movements have a very successful outcome with the emphasis on gaining equality towards women, other movements are taking different approaches to the issue. Women in certain countries, instead of approaching the demands as representation of women as \"a particular interest group\", have approached the issue on the basis of the \"universality of sex differences and the relation to the nation\". Htun and Weldon also bring up the point of democracy and its effects on the level of equality it brings. In their article, they explain that a democratic country is more likely to listen to \"autonomous organizing\" within the government. Women's movements would benefit from this the most or has had great influence and impact because of democracy, though it can become a very complex system. When it comes to local government issues, political standings for women are not necessarily looked upon as a major issue. \"Even civil society organizations left women's issues off the agenda. At this level, traditional leaders also have a vested interest that generally opposes women's interests\". Theorists believe that having a setback in government policies would be seen as catastrophic to the overall progress of women in government. Amanda Gouws says that \"The instability of democratic or nominally democratic regimes makes women's political gains very vulnerable because these gains can be easily rolled back when regimes change. The failure to make the private sphere part of political contestation diminishes the power of formal democratic rights and limits solutions to gender inequality\".\n\n\"Further information: Women and Government in Australia\"\n\nIn 1902, Australia became the first country to give some women the vote and allow them to stand for Parliament. This did not apply to Aboriginal Australians, including women, until the amendment of the Electoral Act in 1962. It wasn't until 1983 that Indigenous people had voting rights entirely equal to white Australians when another amendment made enrollment to vote compulsory, rather than voluntary. 19 years after the Commonwealth Franchise Act was passed, Edith Cowan was elected to Legislative Assembly and became the first woman ever elected in any Australian Parliament. Dorothy Tangney was the first woman elected to the Australian senate in 1946, a seat she held for twenty-five years. In the same year, Dame Enid Lyons became the first woman elected to the House of Representatives. In 1986, Joan Child becomes the first female elected to Speaker of the House of Representatives and held the position for over three years. Of the two major political parties in Australia, the Australian Labor Party (ALP) introduced a 35% quota in 1994 and increased this to 40% in 2002 whereas the Liberal National Party (LNP) currently has no gender-based quotas.\n\nAs of May 2018, women comprise approximately 38% of senators and occupy 44 of the 150 seats in the House of Representatives. In the current 45th Parliament, the ALP exceeds their 40% quota and is made up of 44% women and the LNP 21%. At January 1, 2017, Australia was ranked 52 out of 175 countries in terms of women in ministerial positions and 50thout of 190 countries in terms of women in the lower house of Parliament. The report issued by UN Women found 24.1% of, or 7 out of the 29 Australian ministers were women.\n\n2007 was a notable year for women in Australian Parliament. Anna Bligh became Queensland's first female premier, a position she occupies for five years, and Julia Gilliard MP becomes Deputy Prime Minister. Three years later, Gilliard is elected as Australia's first female prime minister. Dame Quentin Bryce became the first and only woman appointed to Governor-General, a position that is representative of the Monarch, in 2008 and served until 2014. Christine Milne is the only woman that has been head of a major political party when she was elected leader of the Australian Greens in 2012.\n\nIndigenous people, women in particular, are grossly underrepresented in Australian Parliament. Since Federation in 1901, there have been 40 Indigenous Australians involved in any Parliament (sixteen women) and eight in the Federal Parliament (four women). Following are some notable figures:\n\n\nIn Azerbaijan, placing women in government has progressed better than in other Islamic countries. Universal suffrage was introduced in Azerbaijan in 1918 by the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic, thus making Azerbaijan the first Muslim-majority countries and Turk-majority countries ever to enfranchise women. Now, 28 women are members in the Azerbaijan Parliament (Milli Məclis). As of 2015, there were 21 women in the 125-seat parliament. The percentage of female members of parliament increased from 11 to 17 percent between 2005 and 2015. Traditional social norms and lagging economic development in the country's rural regions continued to restrict the role of women in the economy, and there were reports that women had difficulty exercising their legal rights due to gender discrimination. As of May 2009, women held the positions of Deputy Chairman of the Constitutional Court, Deputy Chairman of the Nakhchivan AR Cabinet of Ministers, four Deputy Ministers, an Ambassador, and Ombudsmen of Azerbaijan and Nakhchivan AR. Women constituted 4 of the 16 members of the Central Election Commission and chaired of 3 of the 125 district election commissions. Some famous female managers in historical Azerbaijan territories mentioned below:\n\nA 1995 Brazilian gender quota was extended first to city councilor positions in 1996, then extended to candidates of all political legislative positions by 1998. By 1998, 30% of political candidates had to be women, with varied results in terms of the gender balance of the officials ultimately elected. Though the percentage of national legislature seats occupied by women dropped in the initial years following the passage of the quota law, the percentage has since risen (from 6.2% pre-quota, to 5.7% in 1998, to 8.9% in 2006). However, Brazil has struggled with the quota law in several respects:\n\nChina's stipulation for gender equality in the political sphere started on as early as recorded in its 1954 Constitution, in which the PRC government stated that men and women enjoy equal rights in the aspects of political, economic, cultural, social and family dimensions, especially highlighting legitimate voting right and the right to be elected. Another State document – Law of the People's Republic of China on the Protection of Rights and Interests of Woman – also outlined an official requirement of 'appropriate number of women deputies', combined with the State's obligations to 'gradually increase the proportion of the women deputies' and 'actively trains and selects female cadres' in fundamental national institutions and political organizations. For decades that follow, China has been making revision to its constitutional laws and State announcements to give recognition to women's role in the domain of governance. An example of which is the proclamation issued on the 5th meeting session of the 10th National People's Congress (NPC) necessitating that 'the proportion of women delegates to be elected to the 11th People's Congress should be no less than 20%'.\n\nHowever, regardless of the proper representation of women's political eligibility across multiple government declarations, the political system in China remains overwhelmingly male-dominated which in turns drives the low engagement rate of women delegates. Despite the new 13th NPC lineup with a composition of 742 women out of 2,980 representatives, which amounts to 24.9% penetration with 1.5 points increase as opposed to the former term, there is mere presence of women in the central power structure in major government organs and their political influences are vastly diminished as they climb up the political ladder. Justifications of the above statement include the fact that only 33 women (9%) are recorded to have a seat at the table of Central Committee for the election of members into the Politburo, a key cornerstone for the approval all national affairs. In fact, except for the two consecutive office in 1973 and 1977, the Central Committee has never witnessed over 10% of women engagement in the organization. Associated with the above figure is the decline in the 25-member Politburo from two women down to one. In addition, the recent reappointment of Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party, has sparked controversy on the unbroken record of no-women Politburo Standing Committee and absence of female top leaders in any legislature in China's political history, apart from the exceptions of Vice Premier, Liu Yandong and Vice Foreign Minister, Fu Ying. The public has been compelled to draw parallel with Hong Kong and Taiwan where female presidents – Carrie Lam and Tsai Ing-wen – took office in 2018 and 2016 respectively.\n\nThe male-heavy politics amidst the favorable women's right protection in China can be examined from the following underlying causes:\n\n\"(1) Deprivation of upward mobility\"\n\nWhile the implied prerequisite of national appointment is years of experience serving at middle-to-top management, women in the PRC government often struggle to obtain promotion to high-ranked positions, such as party secretary or principal governor. The reason contributing to the captioned phenomenon is gender division of labor across all levels of political structures. Contrary to Mao Zedong's saying that 'Women hold up half of the sky', Confucians principles' deeply ingrained advocacy “nan zhu wai, nu zhu nei” (men working on the outside, women's place remains on the inside) has shaped gender division of labor. Being assigned highly gender-biased responsibilities within the spectrum of 'women affairs', such as family planning that are reproduction-oriented or with connection to social construction, women's public role and scope of duty are framed under constraints. Women are, at the same time, missing the opportunities to keep a foothold in strategic national affairs, including but not limited to economic development, military planning and diplomatic involvement. The mentioned dilemma is reflected by an actual example in Ning Xiang County, Hunan Province. Women commonly maintain highest authority as Head in women-related bodies, administering concerns on women's unfair treatments and suggesting for children's health development. By the same token, the gendered portfolio gives rise to empowerment of male in the political hierarchal. Consequently, with the lack of exposure to the exemplary official posts and the exclusive offering of key national assignments for men, women's upward mobility is aggravated, resulting in the substantially dwindling likelihood of taking residence in key leading positions.\n\n\"(2) Biased retirement precondition prejudicing against women\"\n\nIn China, there is an apparent discrepancy in the mandatory retirement age between men and women, in which men are entitled to enjoy 10 more years of work. This policy was established on the ground that women are primary and central support for domestic subjects and their early retirement (at the age of 50–55) would be beneficial to their overall family functioning. This discriminatory policy mirrors the cause in the previous part, in which the working capacity of women is restricted by the society's stereotype on their gender role and corresponding gender responsibilities. In addition, the average age of Chinese chief in Central Committee is 56.1 years old; Top leaders in Politburo were appointed at an average age of 61.1 years old; Whereas Standing Committee of Politburo has the highest average age of 63.4 for its office. All figures being examined, the aggregated average age of appointed leaders exceeds the legal retirement age of women in the nation, meaning that women are least likely to become the center of power before their career come to an end.\n\n(3) \"Anti-feminism\"\n\nWhile in foreign countries, women's socio-economic status is uplifted and gender division of labor is largely wiped out by feminist movements to open up the availability and variety of work for women, the conservative and politically-sensitive Chinese government's censorship on feminism within the country has spread fear among feminism advocates. An illustrative case of which is the backlash of 'Feminist Five' in China. The activists suffered from interrogation, detention and month-long imprisonment due to the distribution of stickers on Beijing subways for drawing the wider community's awareness to sexual harassment against women. Followed by the forced suspension of Weibo account 'Feminist Voices' due to the government's tightened censorship, feminist encountered escalated obstacles in promoting gender equality. Feminist movements are yet to achieve their goals.\n\nThe Finnish national quota law, introduced in 1995, mandates that among all indirectly elected public bodies (at both a national and a local level), neither sex in the governing body can be under 40%. The 1995 laws was a reformed version of a similar 1986 law. Unlike other countries' quota laws, which affect party structure or electoral candidate lists, the Finnish law addresses indirectly elected bodies (nominated by official authorities)—the law does not address popularly elected bodies. The Finnish law heavily emphasizes local municipal boards and other subnational institutions. From 1993 (pre-quota law) to 1997 (post-quota law), the proportion of women on municipal executive boards increased from 25% to 45%. The quota law also affected gender segregation in local governance: before the passage of the law, there had been a gender imbalance in terms of female overrepresentation in \"soft-sector\" boards (those concerned with health, education, etc.) and female \"underrepresentation\" in \"hard-sector\" boards (those concerned with economics and technology). In 1997, the boards were balanced horizontally. However, areas not subject to quota laws continue to be imbalanced. In 2003, it was determined that only 16% of the chairs of municipal executive boards are female—chair positions in this area are not quota-regulated. Presidential elections were held in Finland on 16 January 2000, with a second round on 6 February; the result was a victory for Tarja Halonen of the Social Democratic Party, who became the country's first female President.\n\n The gender quotas implemented across parties in Germany in the 1990s serve as a natural experiment for the effect of sub-national party political gender quotas on women participation. Davidson-Schmich (2006) notes, \"the German case provides the variance needed to explain the successful (or failed) implementation of these political party quotas\". Germany's sixteen state legislatures, the Länder, feature a variety of party systems and varied numbers of potential female candidates. Germany is rated highly in its gender gap, but is an example of a developed country with a low percentage of female leadership in politics.\n\nIn an effort to increase women's participation in politics in India, a 1993 constitutional amendment mandated that a randomly selected third of leadership positions at every level of local government be reserved for women. These political reservation quotas randomly choose one third of cities to implement a women-only election. In these cities, parties are forced to either give a ticket to a women candidate or choose to not run in those locations. Due to the randomized selection of cities who must enforce the reservation for women each election year, some cities have implemented the quota multiple times, once or never. This addresses the political discrimination of women at various levels: parties are forced to give women the opportunity to run, the women candidates are not disadvantaged by a male incumbent or general biases for male over female leadership, and the pool of women candidates is increased because of the guaranteed opportunity for female participation. The effects of the quota system in India have been studied by various researchers. In Mumbai, it was found that the probability of a women winning office conditional on the constituency being reserved for women in the previous election is approximately five times the probability of a women winning office if the constituency had not been reserved for women\". Furthermore, that even when the mandates are withdrawn, women were still able to keep their positions of leadership. Given the opportunity to get a party ticket, create a platform and obtain the experience to run for a political position, women are much more likely to be able to overcome these hurdles in the future, even without the quota system in place. The quota system has also affected policy choices. Research in West Bengal and Rajasthan has indicated that reservation affected policy choices in ways that seem to better reflect women's preferences. In terms of voter's perception of female leaders, reservation did not improve the implicit or explicit distaste for female leaders—in fact, the relative explicit preference for male leaders was actually strengthened in villages that had experienced a quota. However, while reservation did not make male villagers more sympathetic to the idea of female leaders, it caused them to recognize that women could lead. Moreover, the reservation policy significantly improved women's prospects in elections open to both sexes, but only after two rounds of reservation within the same village. Political reservation for women has also impacted the aspirations and educational attainment for teenage girls in India.\n\nJapan ranks 127 in the world for the number of women in national parliamentary worldwide as of March 2014, which is lower than that of 2013 in which Japan ranked at 122. As of February 28, 2013, there are a total of 39 women in the House of Representatives out of 479 incumbents. \nSince the enactment of the modern Japanese Constitution in 1947, Japanese women have been given the right to vote, and the new version of the constitution also allows for a more democratic form of government that guarantees women equality under the law. \nThe first female cabinet member, Masa Nakayama, was appointed as the Minister of Health and Welfare in Japan in 1960. \nUntil 1996, the electoral system for the House of Representatives was based on a single non-transferable vote in multi-member districts. That system was not conducive to women's advancement in public office because it promoted contestation between competing parties and rival candidates within the same party, but overall, the new electoral system was introduced to reduce the excessive role of money and corruption in elections, which ultimately helped women who were running for public office.\nIn Japanese politics, the kōenkai is a major factor for a successful outcome of an election. The kōenkai, or \"local support groups\", serve as pipelines through which funds and other support are conveyed to legislators and through which the legislators can distribute favors to constituents in return. Because gaining support from these groups is usually based on personal connections, women's historically disadvantaged position in networking circles hurts their ability to run for public office.\nBy 1996, Japan adopted another new electoral system for the House of Representatives that combines single-seat districts with proportional representation. Out of 480 seats, 300 are contested in single seat constituencies. The other 180 members are elected through allocations to an electoral list submitted by each party. Candidates who lack a strong support system are listed on a party's proportional representation section. In the 2009 election, only two of eight female Liberal Democratic Party members were elected from a single-seat district, which indicates that few female candidates have enough political support to win a single-seat election. While changes in the electoral process have made positions of public office more accessible to women, the actual participation of women in the Diet remains relatively low. \nAs for the future of women in politics in Japan, Prime Minister Shinzō Abe announced in his speech at the Japan National Press Club on April 19, 2013, that a major goal of his national growth strategy is \"having no less than 30 per cent of leadership positions in all areas of society filled by women by 2020.\" \n\nLebanese women are considered to have more rights and freedom compared to other women in the Gulf and Middle East. Women in Lebanon are able to dress more liberally and move around with relative ease in certain parts of the country, unlike other countries in the region. Lebanese women enjoy almost equal civil rights as men. However, due to the large number of officially recognized religions in Lebanon, Lebanese family matters are governed by at least 15 personal statute codes. Lebanese women have legal protection that varies depending on their religion.\n\nLocal and regional NGOs have helped to increase awareness of violence against women in Lebanon. Government policies regarding this are poor however, and attempts to improve this area have been met with resistance. Lebanon's laws do not recognize the concept of spousal rape, and attempts to add this to law have been attacked by Lebanese clerics.\n\nIn 2016, the Dutch government achieved their goal for women in top jobs within the government. A 30% female share was achieved two years earlier than anticipated.\n\nIn business, the number of women in top jobs is behind in the political sector. In 2013, the listed companies inserted a 'one in three' rule, which meant that of every three top jobs, one must be exerted by a woman. Not long after, it turned out companies did not put much effort in to achieving this goal, as in practice even less than one in every ten top jobs was occupied by women. The goal for women in top jobs was postponed to 2023. Government and the business sector agreed that if every one in five top jobs is not exerted by women, after 2018 the 30% rule will become mandatory.\n\nMeanwhile, women's quota received a fair share of criticism. It has been argued that women should be employed based on their own qualities, not because of their gender.\n\nNo political gender quotas exist in Romania, however the Equality Act of 2002 provides that public authorities and institutions, political parties, employers' organizations and trade unions must provide an equitable and balanced representation of men and women at all decisional levels. Following the 2016 elections, women gained only 20.7% of seats in the Lower House (Romanian Chamber of Deputies) and 14.7% in the Upper House (Senate of Romania). These figures are up from the 4.9% of women in the Romanian Parliament in 1990. On the other hand, women are well represented in the central public administration, including the Government, with more than half of decision-making positions held by women, according to a 2011 study commissioned by the Ministry of Labor.\n\n Since the election of 2008, Rwanda is the first country to have a majority of women in legislature. Rwanda is an example of a developing country that does not have spectacular gender equality in other aspects of society, but radically increased its female leadership because of national conflict. After the genocide that killed 800,000 Tutsis in 100 days, women in legislature went from 18% women before the conflict to 56% in 2008. Two pieces of legislature enabled and supported women into leadership positions: the Security Council Resolution of 1325 urged women to take part in the post-conflict reconstruction and the 2003 Rwandan Constitution included a mandated quota of 30% reserved seats for all women in legislature. Of the 24 women who gained seats directly after the quota implementation in 2003, many joined political parties and chose to run again. Though it took almost 10 years, after implementing the gender quotas, Rwanda reached levels of female representation which are amongst the highest in the world. Once again we can see the quota working as an \"incubator\" for driving women's participation in leadership.\n\nIt is argued that the increase of female leadership in Rwanda also led to an increase in gender equality. World Focus (2009) writes, \"Rwandan voters have elected women in numbers well beyond the mandates dictated by the post-genocide constitution. And though women in Rwanda still face discrimination, female legislators have influenced major reforms in banking and property laws.\" A parliamentary women's caucus in Rwanda (FFRP) has also \"led a successful effort to pass ground-breaking legislation on gender-based violence in part by involving and garnering support from their male colleagues\".\n\nWhile some researchers see reform, others see dominant party tactics. Hassim (2009) writes, \"It could be argued that in both countries [Uganda and Rwanda] women's representation provided a kind of alibi for the progressive, 'democratic' nature of new governments that at their core nevertheless remained authoritarian, and increasingly so\". Rwanda shows that increased participation by women in democracy is conducive to progress in gender equal legislature and reform, but research must be careful not to immediately relate increased gender equality in politics to increased gender equality in policy.\n\nIn 2007, Spain passed the Equality Law, requiring a \"principle of balanced presence\" by mandating political parties to include 40–60% of each sex among electoral candidates. This law is unique in that surpasses the 40% parity figure established by the European Commission in 1998; a figure which (according to the EC) indicates \"parity democracy.\" Though there is anecdotal evidence of increasing female representation on a local and national level, there has not yet been national-level data to quantitatively bolster this assertion.\n\nOn June 6, 2018, Pedro Sánchez, the leader of the Spanish Socialist Party, presented his cabinet which included eleven women and six men, making it the cabinet with the highest proportion of women in the world at the time.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, 32% of the lower house, the House of Commons, and 25% of the upper house, the House of Lords, are women which ranks it 40th in the world as of September 2017. The current government of the United Kingdom includes a number of women ministers in the Cabinet and other government departments. The UK has had two female prime ministers, Margaret Thatcher (1979–1990) and Theresa May (2016–). The head of state of the United Kingdom is Queen Elizabeth II. In 2015, she became the longest-reigning female head of state in world history. In 2016, she became the longest currently serving head of state (male or female).\n\nIn the United States no political gender quotas exist, mandatory or voluntary. The proportion of women in leadership roles in the Senate, House of Representatives, and Presidential positions reflect this. Although the proportion has grown since the first female elected into the Senate, the current position of women representation in the U.S. is precarious. In the elections of 2012, the greatest number of female incumbents ever were up for re-election in the Senate. Ten female Democrats, six of them incumbents, were nominated, with one Republican nominated for Senate ran for office. Steinhauer notes that in Congress, both in the Senate and the House of Representatives, women historically and currently lack representation.\n\nFrom 1917, when Representative Jeannette Rankin of Montana became the first woman to serve in Congress, to the 115th congress, a total of 329 women have served as U.S. Representatives, Delegates, or Senators.\n\nFrom 1917 to 2018, the United States has had 277 women serve in the House of Representatives.\n\nFrom 1922, when Senator Rebecca Latimer Felton became the first woman to serve in the Senate, to 2018 52 women have served in the United States Senate.\n\nIn the 115th Congress, 107 (78D, 29R) women hold seats in the United States Congress, comprising 20.0% of the 535 members; 23 women (23%) serve in the U.S. Senate, and 84 women (19.3%) serve in the U.S. House of Representatives.\n\nThe United States is one of the shrinking number of industrialized democracies to not have yet had a woman as its leader. Worldwide, female prime ministers include Canada's Kim Campbell, the UK's Margaret Thatcher, Australia's Julia Gillard, Israel's Golda Meir, and France's Édith Cresson. Other female national leaders include Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil, and President Isabel Perón of Argentina. Even Pakistan and Turkey, countries often viewed as particularly male-dominated have had female prime ministers. Therefore, the United States, a country which promotes the rights of women and girls around the world, is conspicuous for having only male presidents.\n\nIn popular media in the United States, female politicians see some focus on their appearance; more so than their male counterparts. A 2011 feminist journal by Carlin and Winfrey focuses on the portrayal of female politicians in the media. According to the journal, the way media perceives women and men is very distinct in the language they chose to use. The language chosen to talk or describe other people can either hurt or help them in a political campaign. As a result of\nwomen being talked about in sexist terms in can greatly affect her reputation and credibility.\nThe journal claims the media uses terms that indicative of women not being valued as individuals. \"This is especially true when women are described using metaphors that draw on animals, children, or food. Animal terms focus on the appearance and sexuality of young women (foxy), and as women grow older, or are seen as too aggressive, they may be called barracuda, old bat, shrew, or cow.\"\nFemales tend to have less issue coverage than males (due to fewer female politicians), but tend to have more coverage on things such as their appearance than male politicians.\nMen candidates don't get coverage on what kind of suite they are wearing or who designed it. This is due to innate purpose of the media to appeal to demands of their audiences for sales – in this case the popular female focus on fashion that dominates the media. Studies done on women candidates have shown that women receive more attention in the media for factors such as appearance, clothes, size, and emotional state\".\nIn 2015 Rachel Silbermann conducted a study that time spent traveling to and from work is particularly burdensome for those who spend time caring for children, and as women do a majority of the child care and housework, commuting is particularly burdensome to them. Silbermann also found that female students weigh proximity to home twice as heavily as male students do in a hypothetical decision of whether to run for higher office. She suggests that to achieve equal representation of women in government men and women will need to share household responsibilities more equally.\n\nA 2016 study found no evidence that the low share of women in the U.S. House of Representative was due to gender discrimination by voters. According to the author of the study, \"these results suggest that the deficit of female representation in the House is more likely the result of barriers to entering politics as opposed to overt gender discrimination by voters and campaign donors.\"\n\nA 2017 study found that over the last decade, public opposition to  electing a woman as president was reduced from approximately 26% to 13%. \n\nA 2018 study in the \"American Political Science Review\" did not find evidence that American voters were outright hostile to women in politics or that they held double standards. The study did however find that American voters preferred candidates who were married and had children. Since the burdens of child-rearing disproportionately fall on women in households, the bias in favor of married candidates with children may explain women's underrepresentation in politics.\n\nIn 2008, campaigns for both Sarah Palin and Hillary Clinton were taken in great interest by fashion articles read mostly by women. The journal claims that Clinton was perceived as masculine and Palin was seen as feminine. \"Palin's attractiveness resulted in frequent and varied references to her \"sexiness\"; whereas, Clinton was viewed as not feminine enough in pantsuits that covered her \"cankles\" (thick ankles).\nVarious newspapers covered on how Palin was part of beauty pageants and this really affected the seriousness of her campaign. They took Palin as a joke and various individuals began to state that this was a political campaign and not\nanother beauty pageant. On the other hand Clinton was perceived as a \"nut cracker\" and \"where boners go to die\". Clinton's physical appearance and her choice of clothing, pantsuits over skirts and dresses, were the source of considerable ridicule.\nCarlin and Winfrey believe that Clinton was not perceived as a sex symbol because she chose to wear pants over\nskirts, and also because she was older than Palin. Due to the smaller proportion of women who pursue political careers, there is greater pressure on female politicians to succeed. The importance of criticisms about \"cankles\" and the like on public popularity in a presidential election is disputed. Many think these criticisms are neglegible, but Carlin and Winfrey believe this criticisms have a large effect. This analysis done on both Senator Clinton's and Governor Palin's campaign concluded that media coverage had a vast responsibility on how both women were viewed due to their gender\nstereotypes and language used to \"influence the public\", though others argue that the style of media coverage is entirely the result of existing demand by the audience. There was national sample done that concluded that 51% of respondents \"believed\" that Americans were not ready for a women to be elected into high office. 40% of those same individuals \"believed\" that women were still discriminated in all areas in societies including politics.\n\nThe \"New York Journal\" explains how many in the general public of South Carolina were ignorant of the fact that Haley was Indian-American. According to one of her co-workers in the state legislator, voters saw Haley as a “nice conservative woman with a tan.” While running the first time, for House of Representatives, in a semi-rural district, some of the voters pledged against Haley and said they would not vote for any candidate whose father was an immigrant.\n\nThroughout Haley's 2010 campaign for Governor, opponents attacked her gender. These sexist comments did not sway Haley, who was self-confident in her own skin. She was called a “rag-head,” and “Mark Sandford in a skirt.” Haley responded in a positive way, she was not upset and seemed very level-headed. Then, one person who worked with Haley previously as a political consultant accused her of an affair. Haley rejected this very serious allegation and went forward to win the 2010 election for Governor of South Carolina.\n\nWomen in government have historically been fewer in numbers in Western societies compared to men. Some women, however, have served as heads of state and government. Although the number of women in government in the US has grown, they still hold less than 25% of government positions nationwide. According to a survey administered to 1,039 U.S. citizens, the number of women who hold a position in government office could be due to a baseline preference of one sex over another. The results show that 60% of respondents have a baseline gender preference for a male candidate, while 40% prefer a woman candidate.\n\n<section begin=Historic firsts for women in government />\n\nSome of the most prominent female leaders of world powers in recent decades were (listed by name then position):\n\nThe following women leaders are currently in office as either the head of their nation's government or the head of state:\n\nWomen holding prominent cabinet posts have grown in numbers worldwide during the 20th and 21st centuries, and in recent years have increasingly held the top profile portfolios for their governments in non-traditional areas for women in government, such as foreign relations, national security and defense, and finance or revenue.\n\nThe following women have held posts in recent years as ministers of foreign relations or the equivalent for their respective national governments:\nThe following women have held posts in recent years as ministers of defense, national security or an equivalent for their respective national governments:\nThe following women have held posts in recent years as ministers of finance, revenue, or an equivalent for their respective national governments:\n\nWomen have been notably in fewer numbers in the executive branch of government. The gender gap has been closing, however, albeit slowly The first women other than monarchs to hold head of state positions were in socialist countries. The first was Khertek Anchimaa-Toka of the Tuvan People's Republic from 1940–1944, followed by Sükhbaataryn Yanjmaa of the Mongolian People's Republic 1953–1954 and Soong Ching-ling of the People's Republic of China from 1968–1972 and 1981.\n\nFollowing the socialist countries, the Nordic countries have been forerunners in including women in the executive branch. The second cabinet Brundtland (1986–1989) was historical in that 8 out of 18 cabinet members were women, and in 2007 the second cabinet Stoltenberg (2005–2013) was more than 50% women.\n\nIn 2003, Finland had a historical moment when all top leaders of the country were women and also represented different political parties: Social democrat Tarja Halonen was President, Riitta Uosukainen from National Coalition Party was Speaker of the Parliament and after the parliamentary elections of 2003 Anneli Jäätteenmäki from Center party was on her way to become the first female Prime Minister of Finland. By June 22, 2010 Mari Kiviniemi of the Centre Party was appointed the second female Prime Minister of Finland.\n\nBetween 2007 and 2011 the Finnish cabinet was 60% female, with a female Prime Minister from 2010 to 2011. Between 2014 and 2015 the Finnish cabinet was 59% female.\n\nThe present Danish government is a coalition between the Social Democrats, the Social-Liberal Party and the Socialist People's Party. All three parties have female leaders. Helle Thorning-Schmidt is Prime Minister.\n\nThe world's first elected female president was Vigdís Finnbogadóttir of Iceland, whose term lasted from 1980 to 1996.\n\nIn 2005, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf of Liberia became Africa's first elected female head of state.\n\nIt was not until World War I and the first socialist revolutions that the first few women became members of governments. Alexandra Kollontai became the first female to hold a minister position, as the People's Commissar for Social Welfare in Soviet Russia in 1917. Nina Bang, Danish Minister of Education from 1924–26, was the world's second full female cabinet minister.\n\nThe first female head of government was Evgenia Bosh, the Bolshevik military leader who held the People's Secretary of Internal Affairs position in the Ukraine People's Republic of the Soviets of Workers and Peasants from 1917–1918, which was responsible for executive functions. Nevertheless, development was slow and it was not until the end of the 20th century that female ministers stopped being unusual.\n\nThe first government organization formed with the goal of women's equality was the Zhenotdel, in Soviet Russia.\n\nAccording to a 2006 report by the Inter-Parliamentary Union, 16% of all parliament members in the world are female. In 1995, the United Nations set a goal of 30% female representation. The current annual growth rate of women in national parliaments is about 0.5% worldwide. At this rate, gender parity in national legislatures will not be achieved until 2068.\n\nThe top ten countries in terms of number of female parliamentary members are Rwanda with 56.3%, Sweden (47.0%), Cuba (43.2%), Finland (41.5%), the Netherlands (41.3%), Argentina (40.0%), Denmark (38.0%), Angola (37.3%), Costa Rica (36.8%), Spain (36.3%). Cuba has the highest percentage for countries without a quota. In South Asia, Nepal is highest in the rank of women participation in politics with (33%). Among East Asian countries, Taiwan has the highest percentage of women in Parliament (38.0%). In the United States in 2008, the New Hampshire State Senate became the first state legislature upper house to possess an elected female majority.\n\nThe United Kingdom and United States are roughly in line with the world average. The House of Lords has 139 women (19.7%), while there are 125 women (19.4%) in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom.\n\nOn November 6, 2012, New Hampshire made US History by having all-female congressional delegation to Congress with Annie Kuster being elected to represent New Hampshire's 2nd congressional district in the House of Representatives, Carol Shea-Porter regained her House seat to represent New Hampshire's 1st congressional district in the House of Representatives, and with Jeanne Shaheen and Kelly Ayotte both represented New Hampshire in the United States senate.\n\nOn November 8, 2016, New Hampshire again made US History by having an all-female, all-Democratic delegation to the US Congress. Incumbent Republican senator, Kelly Ayotte, was defeated by then-New Hampshire Governor, Maggie Hassan, a Democrat, in the senate election to serve alongside Democratic senator, Jeanne Shaheen. Representative Carol Shea-Porter, a Democrat, defeated incumbent representative, Frank Guinta, a Republican, again in New Hampshire's 1st congressional district to serve alongside Ann Kuster, who represents New Hampshire 2nd congressional district in the House of Representatives to achieve another historic \"women's first\".\n\nThere has been an increasing focus on women's representation at a local level. Most of this research is focused on developing countries. Governmental decentralization often results in local government structures that are more open to the participation of women, both as elected local councilors and as the clients of local government services.\nA 2003 survey conducted by United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG), a global network supporting inclusive local governments, found that the average proportion of women in local council was 15%. In leadership positions, the proportion of women was lower: for instance, 5% of mayors of Latin American municipalities are women.\n\nAccording to a comparative study of women in local governments in East Asia and the Pacific, women have been more successful in reaching decision-making position in local governments than at the national level. Local governments tend to be more accessible and have more available positions. Also, women's role in local governments may be more accepted because they are seen as an extension of their involvement in the community.\n\nThe local panchayat system in India provides an example of women's representation at the local governmental level. The 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendments in 1992 mandated panchayat elections throughout the country. The reforms reserved 33% of the seats for women and for castes and tribes proportional to their population. Over 700,000 women were elected after the reforms were implemented in April 1993.\n\n\nList of All first women in different fields https://www.helpnow.pk/worlds-first-females/\n\n\n"}
