{"id": "46759966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46759966", "title": "2015 Democratic Alliance Federal Congress", "text": "2015 Democratic Alliance Federal Congress\n\nThe Democratic Alliance held its 6th Federal Congress in Port Elizabeth, Eastern Cape from 9 May to 10 May 2015. After incumbent leader Helen Zille announced she would not seek reelection, the congress became focused on the contest to succeed her.\n\nWhen the nominations deadline had passed, four candidates for the leadership had been put forward: Federal Chairperson Wilmot James, Parliamentary Leader Mmusi Maimane, Adrian Naidoo, and Morgan Oliphant\n\nIn the month leading to the vote, the two leading candidates, James and Maimane, traded barbs over issues such party democracy, transparency, and who would be most successful in challenging the ruling African National Congress. The two candidates addressed the provincial party congress in KwaZulu-Natal where James challenged Mamaine to a series of debates.\n\nContinuing his criticism of Maimane's commitment to intra-party democracy and transparency, James released his list of donors in the last week of the campaign and called on his rival to do the same.\n\nOn May 10, following a vote by party delegates, outgoing leader Helen Zille declared Mamaine as the duly elected leader of the Democratic Alliance. 93% of delegates voted in the leadership race. According to his campaign, Maimane won with 90% of the vote.\n\nHe is the first black South African to lead the party.\n\nEastern Cape DA Leader Athol Trollip was elected as Federal Chairperson.\n\nJames Selfe was reelected unopposed as chair of the federal council. Alf Lees was elected federal finance chair. Thomas Walters was elected deputy chair of the federal council. Ivan Meyer, Refiloe Ntsekhem and Desiree van der Walt were elected as first, second, and third deputy chairs respectively.\n"}
{"id": "206997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206997", "title": "Alsace-Lorraine", "text": "Alsace-Lorraine\n\nThe Imperial Territory of Alsace-Lorraine ( or ) was a territory created by the German Empire in 1871, after it annexed most of Alsace and the Moselle department of Lorraine following its victory in the Franco-Prussian War. The Alsatian part lay in the Rhine Valley on the west bank of the Rhine River and east of the Vosges Mountains. The Lorraine section was in the upper Moselle valley to the north of the Vosges.\n\nThe territory encompassed 93% of Alsace and 26% of Lorraine, while the rest of these regions remained part of France. For historical reasons, specific legal dispositions are still applied in the territory in the form of a \"local law\". In relation to its special legal status, since its reversion to France following World War I, the territory has been referred to administratively as Alsace-Moselle.\n\nSince 2016, the historical territory is now part of the French administrative region of Grand Est.\n\nAlsace-Lorraine had a land area of . Its capital was Straßburg. It was divided in three districts (\"Bezirke\" in German):\n\nThe largest urban areas in Alsace-Lorraine at the 1910 census were:\n\nThe modern history of Alsace-Lorraine was largely influenced by the rivalry between French and German nationalism.\n\nFrance long sought to attain and preserve its \"natural boundaries\", which were the Pyrenees to the southwest, the Alps to the southeast, and the Rhine River to the northeast. These strategic claims led to the annexation of territories located west of the Rhine river in the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation. What is now known as Alsace was progressively conquered by Louis XIV in the 17th century, while Lorraine was incorporated in the 18th century under Louis XV.\n\nGerman nationalism, which resurfaced following the French occupation of Germany under Napoleon, sought to unify all the German-speaking populations of the former Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation into a single nation-state. As various German dialects were spoken by most of the population of Alsace and Moselle (northern Lorraine), these regions were viewed by German nationalists to be rightfully part of hoped-for united Germany in the future.\n\nIn 1871, the newly created German Empire's demand for Alsace from France after its victory in the Franco-Prussian War was not simply a punitive measure. The transfer was controversial even among the Germans: The German Chancellor, Otto von Bismarck, was initially opposed to it, as he thought it would engender permanent French enmity toward Germany. Some German industrialists did not want the competition from Alsatian industries, such as the cloth makers who would be exposed to competition from the sizeable industry in Mulhouse. Karl Marx also warned his fellow Germans: \"If Alsace and Lorraine are taken, then France will later make war on Germany in conjunction with Russia. It is unnecessary to go into the unholy consequences.\" \n\nHowever, the German Emperor, Wilhelm I, eventually sided with army commander Helmuth von Moltke, other Prussian generals and other officials who argued that a westward shift in the French border was necessary for strategic military and ethnographic reasons. From an ethnic perspective, the transfer involved people who for the most part spoke Alemannic German dialects. From a military perspective, by early 1870s standards, shifting the frontier away from the Rhine would give the Germans a strategic buffer against feared future French attacks. Due to the annexation, the Germans gained control of the fortifications of Metz, though it was a French-speaking town; of Strasbourg (Straßburg) on the left bank of the Rhine; and of most of the iron resources of Lorraine.\n\nHowever, domestic politics in the new Reich may have been decisive. Although it was effectively led by Prussia, the new German Empire was a decentralized federal state. The new arrangement left many senior Prussian generals with serious misgivings about leading diverse military forces to guard a prewar frontier that, except for the northernmost section, was part of two other states of the new Empire – Baden and Bavaria. As recently as the 1866 Austro-Prussian War, these states had been Prussia's enemies. In the new Empire's constitution, both states, but especially Bavaria, had been given concessions with regard to local autonomy, including partial control of their military forces. For this reason, the Prussian General Staff argued that it was necessary for the Reich's frontier with France to be under direct Prussian control. Creating a new Imperial Territory () out of formerly French territory would achieve this goal: although a Reichsland would not be part of the Kingdom of Prussia, being governed directly from Berlin it would be under Prusso-German control. Thus, by annexing Alsace-Lorraine, Berlin was able to avoid complications with Baden and Bavaria on such matters as new fortifications.\n\nMemories of the Napoleonic Wars were still quite fresh in the 1870s. Right up until the Franco-Prussian War, the French had maintained a long-standing desire to establish their entire eastern frontier on the Rhine, and thus they were viewed by most 19th century Germans as an aggressive people. In the years before 1870, it is arguable that the Germans feared the French more than the French feared the Germans. Many Germans at the time thought that the creation of the new Empire in itself would be enough to earn permanent French enmity, and thus desired a defensible border with their old enemy. Any additional enmity that would be earned from territorial concessions was downplayed as marginal and insignificant in the overall scheme of things.\n\nThe annexed area consisted of the northern part of Lorraine, along with Alsace. The area around the town of Belfort (now the French \"département\" of Territoire de Belfort) was unaffected, because Belfort had been defended by Colonel Denfert-Rochereau, who surrendered only after receiving orders from Paris, and was compensated by another territory. The town of Montbéliard and its surrounding area to the south of Belfort, which have been part of the Doubs department since 1816, and therefore were not considered part of Alsace, were not included, although they were a Protestant enclave, as it belonged to Württemberg from 1397 to 1806. This area corresponded to the French \"départements\" of Bas-Rhin (in its entirety), Haut-Rhin (except the area of Belfort and Montbéliard), and a small area in the northeast of the Vosges département, all of which made up Alsace, and the \"départements\" of Moselle (four-fifths of it) and the northeast of Meurthe (one-third of Meurthe), which were the eastern part of Lorraine.\n\nThe rest of the département of Meurthe was joined with the westernmost part of Moselle which had escaped German annexation to form the new département of Meurthe-et-Moselle.\n\nThe new border between France and Germany mainly followed the geolinguistic divide between French and German dialects, except in a few valleys of the Alsatian side of the Vosges mountains, the city of Metz and its region and in the area of Château-Salins (formerly in the Meurthe \"département\"), which were annexed by Germany although most people there spoke French. In 1900, 11.6% of the population of Alsace-Lorraine spoke French as their first language (11.0% in 1905, 10.9% in 1910).\n\nThat small francophone areas were affected, was used in France to denounce the new border as hypocrisy, since Germany had justified the annexation on linguistic grounds. However, the German administration was tolerant of the use of the French language (in sharp contrast to the use of the Polish language in the Province of Posen), and French was permitted as an official language and school language in those areas where it was spoken by a majority. This would only change with the First World War in 1914.\n\nThe Treaty of Frankfurt gave the residents of the region until October 1, 1872 to choose between emigrating to France or remaining in the region and having their nationality legally changed to German. About 161,000 people, or around 10.4% of the Alsace-Lorraine population, opted for French citizenship (the so-called \"Optanden\"); however, only about 50,000 actually emigrated, while the rest acquired German citizenship.\n\nThe sentiment of attachment to France stayed strong at least during the first 16 years of the annexation. During the Reichstag elections, the 15 deputies of 1874, 1881, 1884 (but one) and 1887 were called \"protester deputies\" (fr: ) because they expressed to the Reichstag their opposition to the annexation by means of the \"1874 motion\" in the French language: « May it please the Reichstag to decide that the populations of Alsace-Lorraine that were annexed, without having been consulted, to the German Reich by the treaty of Frankfurt have to come out particularly about this annexation. » The Saverne Affair (usually known in English-language accounts as the Zabern Affair), in which abusive and oppressive behaviour by the military towards the population of the town of Saverne led to protests not just in Alsace but in other regions, put a severe strain on the relationship between the people of Alsace-Lorraine and the rest of the German Empire.\n\nUnder the German Empire of 1871–1918, the annexed territory constituted the \"Reichsland\" or Imperial Territory of (German for Alsace-Lorraine). The area was administered directly from Berlin, but was granted limited autonomy in 1911. This included its constitution and state assembly, its own flag, and the (\"Alsatian Flag Song\") as its anthem.\n\nFVp: Progressive People's Party. formed in 1910 as a merger of all leftist liberal parties.\n\nIn French foreign policy, the demand for the return of Alsace and Lorraine faded in importance after 1880 with the decline of the monarchists element. When the World War broke out in 1914, recovery of the two lost provinces became the top French war goal.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the increased militarization of Europe, and the lack of negotiation between major powers, led to harsh and rash actions taken by both sides in respect to Alsace-Lorraine during World War I. As soon as war was declared, both the French and German authorities used the inhabitants of Alsace-Lorraine as propaganda pawns. \n\nGermans living in France were arrested and placed into camps by the French authorities. Upon occupying certain villages, veterans of the 1870 conflict were sought out and arrested by the French army.\n\nThe Germans responded to the outbreak of war with harsh measures against the Alsace-Lorraine populace: the Saverne Affair had convinced the high command that the population was hostile to the German Empire and that it should be forced into submission. German troops occupied some homes. The German military feared French partisans – or \"francs-tireurs\", as they had been called during the Franco-Prussian War – would reappear.\n\nGerman authorities developed policies aimed at reducing the influence of French. In Metz, French street names, which had been displayed in French and German, were suppressed in January 1915. Six months later, on July 15, 1915, German became the only official language in the region, leading to the Germanization of the towns’ names effective September 2, 1915.\n\nProhibiting the speaking of French in public further increased the exasperation of some of the natives, who were long accustomed to mixing their conversation with French language (see code-switching); however, the use even of one word, as innocent as \"bonjour\", could incur a fine. Some ethnic Germans in the region cooperated in the persecution as a way to demonstrate German patriotism.\n\nGerman authorities became increasingly worried about renewed French nationalism. The Reichsland governor stated in February 1918: \"Sympathies towards France and repulsion for Germans have penetrated to a frightening depth the petty bourgeoisie and the peasantry\"\". But in order to spare them possible confrontations with relatives in France but also to avoid any desertion from the Alsatian soldiers to the French army, German Army draftees from Alsace-Lorraine were sent mainly to the Eastern front, or the Navy (). About 15,000 Alsatians and Lorrainers served in the German Navy.\n\nIn the general revolutionary atmosphere of the expiring German Empire, Marxist councils of workers and soldiers () formed in Mulhouse, in Colmar and Strasbourg in November 1918, in parallel to other such bodies set up in Germany, in imitation of the Russian equivalent \"soviets\".\n\nIn this chaotic situation, Alsace-Lorraine's Landtag proclaimed itself the supreme authority of the land with the name of , the Soviet of Strasbourg claimed the foundation of a \"Republic of Alsace-Lorraine\", while SPD Reichstag representative for Colmar, Jacques Peirotes, announced the establishment of the French rule, urging Paris to send troops quickly.\n\nWhile the soviet councils disbanded themselves with the departure of the German troops between November 11 and 17, the arrival of the French Army stabilized the situation: French troops put the region under \"occupatio bellica\" and entered Strasbourg on November 21. The Nationalrat proclaimed the annexation of Alsace to France on December 5, even though this process did not gain international recognition until the signature of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919.\n\nAlsace-Lorraine was divided into the \"départements\" of Haut-Rhin, Bas-Rhin and Moselle (the same political structure as before the annexation and as created by the French Revolution, with slightly different limits). Today, these territories enjoy laws that are significantly different from the rest of France – these specific provisions are known as the local law.\n\nThe département Meurthe-et-Moselle was maintained even after France recovered Alsace-Lorraine in 1919. The area of Belfort became a special status area and was not reintegrated into Haut-Rhin in 1919 but instead was made a full-status département in 1922 under the name Territoire-de-Belfort.\n\nThe French Government immediately started a Francization campaign that included the forced deportation of all Germans who had settled in the area after 1870. For that purpose, the population was divided in four categories: A (French citizens before 1870), B (descendants of such French citizens), C (citizens of Allied or neutral states) and D (enemy aliens - Germans). By July 1921, 111,915 people categorized as \"D\" had been expelled to Germany. German-language Alsatian newspapers were also suppressed.\n\nAfter the defeat of France in the spring of 1940, Alsace and Moselle were not formally annexed by Nazi Germany. Although the terms of the armistice specified that the integrity of the whole French territory could not be modified in any way, Adolf Hitler, the German Führer, drafted an annexation law in 1940 that he kept secret, expecting to announce it in the event of a German victory. Through a series of laws which individually seemed minor, Berlin took full control of Alsace-Lorraine, and Alsatians-Lorrainians could be drafted into the German Army. During the occupation, Moselle was integrated into a Reichsgau named Westmark and Alsace was amalgamated with Baden. Beginning in 1942, people from Alsace and Moselle were made German citizens by decree of the Nazi government.\n\nBeginning in October 1942, young Alsatian and Lorrainian men were inducted into the German armed forces. Sometimes they were known as the , which could be translated in English as \"against our will\". A small minority, however, volunteered, notably the author of \"The Forgotten Soldier\", known by the pseudonym Guy Sajer. Ultimately, 100,000 Alsatians and 30,000 Mosellans were enrolled, many of them to fight on the Eastern Front against the Soviet Red Army. Most of those who survived the war were interned in Tambov in Russia in 1945. Many others fought in Normandy against the Allies as the of the 2nd SS Panzer Division Das Reich, some of which were involved in the Oradour sur Glane and Tulle war crimes.\n\nSpeaking Alsatian, Lorraine Franconian or French was prohibited under German occupation, and learning German was obligatory.\n\n\nWhen Alsace and the Lorraine department became part of Germany, the French laws regarding religious bodies were preserved, with special privileges to the then recognised religions of Calvinism, Judaism, Lutheranism and Roman Catholicism, under a system known as the Concordat. However, the Roman Catholic dioceses of Metz and of Strasbourg became exempt jurisdictions. The , with its directory, supreme consistory and the bulk of its parishioners residing in Alsace, was reorganised as the Protestant Church of Augsburg Confession of Alsace and Lorraine (EPCAAL) in 1872, but territorially reconfined to Alsace-Lorraine only. The five local Calvinist consistories, originally part of the Reformed Church of France, formed a statewide synod in 1895, the Protestant Reformed Church of Alsace and Lorraine (EPRAL). The three Israelite consistories in , and were disentangled from supervision by the Israelite Central Consistory of France and continued as separate statutory corporations which never formed a joint body, but cooperated. All the mentioned religious bodies retained the status as \"établissements publics de culte\" (public bodies of Religion). When the new Alsace-Lorraine constitution of 1911 provided for a bicameral state parliament () each recognised religion was entitled to send a representative into the first chamber of the Landtag as ex officio members (the bishops of Strasbourg and of Metz, the presidents of EPCAAL and EPRAL, and a delegate of the three Israelite consistories).\n\nPopulation 1,874,014:\n\nBoth Germanic and Romance dialects were traditionally spoken in Alsace-Lorraine before the 20th century.\n\nGermanic dialects:\n\nRomance dialects (belonging to the langues d'oïl like French):\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1084640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1084640", "title": "Androcracy", "text": "Androcracy\n\nAndrocracy is a form of government in which the government rulers are male. The males, especially fathers, have the central roles of political leadership, moral authority, and control of property. It is also sometimes called a phallocracy, phallocratic, andrarchy, or an androcentric society. This term derives from the Greek root words \"andros\", \"man\", and \"krateo\" (as in democratic), or \"to rule\".\n\nTraditionally, influential political positions have been disproportionately occupied by males. With the rise of feminism since the late 19th century, opinions concerning women in politics have changed in a manner that has facilitated an increase in female political participation. Nevertheless, there continues to be a considerable disparity between the percentage of males and females in politics. Currently, women represent 19.4 percent of all parliamentarians in the regions of Europe, the Americas, Sub-Sahara Africa, Asia, the Pacific, the Arab States, and Nordic countries. The level of female participation in parliament varies between regions, ranging from percentages as high as 42 in Nordic countries to as low as 11.4 in Arabic states.\n\nRiane Eisler, in her book \"The Chalice and the Blade\", contrasts androcratic male-dominated society with gylany, i.e., partnership society based on gender equality.\n\nGylany is balanced and equalitarian, and should not be confused with gynocracy or matriarchy, which define systems where women impose hierarchical power over men.\n\nAndrocracy as a gender bias may influence the decision-making process in many countries. Kleinberg and Boris point to a dominant paradigm which promotes wage-earning fathers with financially dependent mothers, the exclusion of same-sex couples, and the marginalization of single-parent families.\n\nThe opposite of androcracy is gynecocracy, sometimes referred to as gynocracy, or rule by women. It is related to but not synonymous with matriarchy. Evidence indicating historical gynecocracies survives mostly in mythology and in some archaeological records, although it is disputed by some authors, like Cynthia Eller in her book \"The Myth of Matriarchal Prehistory\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35974176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35974176", "title": "BPF Youth", "text": "BPF Youth\n\nThe BPF Youth (Belarusian: Моладзь БНФ, Moladź BNF) is the largest youth-led, party political organization in Belarus, the youth wing of the BPF Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "14625644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14625644", "title": "Bylaw enforcement officer", "text": "Bylaw enforcement officer\n\nA bylaw enforcement officer is a law enforcement employee of a municipality, county or regional district, charged with the enforcement of non-criminal bylaws, rules, laws, codes or regulations enacted by local governments.\n\nThis terminology is commonly used in Canada and some other Commonwealth countries. In the Canadian province of Ontario, bylaw enforcement officers are generally titled \"municipal law enforcement officers\", and in Newfoundland & Labrador, the term \"municipal enforcement officer\" is also used.\n\nIn the Canadian province of Alberta, municipalities can appoint bylaw enforcements officers under the authority of section 555 and 556 of the \"Municipal Government Act\". There is a common misconception that all bylaw officers are community peace officers. However, a person appointed as a community peace officer can only enforce provincial acts and regulations. A community peace officer is not authorized to enforce municipal bylaws unless they are also appointed under the authority of the \"Municipal Government Act\", or if the specific bylaw states it can be enforced by a community peace officer working for that municipality. There are a number of municipalities in Alberta whose officers enforce only municipal bylaws as bylaw officers, others that only enforce provincial acts as community peace officers, and others that hold dual municipal and provincial appointments.\n\nMunicipalities in the United States more frequently use the terms \"code enforcement officer\" or \"municipal regulations officer\", although code enforcement officers in the United States often have a narrower scope of duties than municipal bylaw enforcement officers in Canada. Code enforcement officers in the United States are more like property standards officers in Canada. In the United Kingdom, the word \"warden\" is commonly used to describe various classes of non-police enforcement officers, and sometimes the title of \"inspector\" is also used in various jurisdictions. An environmental warden in Edinburgh, Scotland has duties very similar to those of a bylaw enforcement officer employed by a similar-sized city in Canada.\n\nIn Australia, the terms \"law enforcement officer\", \"Shire Ranger\" or \"local laws officer\" are used for general-duty bylaw enforcement, \"traffic officer\" for parking enforcement only, and \"animal management officer\" (formerly known as \"ranger\" or \"council ranger\") for animal-related enforcement.\n\nIn Germany order enforcement offices are established under the state´s laws and local regulations under different terms like \"Ordnungsamt\" (order enforcement office), \"Ordnungsdienst\" (order enforcement service), \"Gemeindevollzugsdienst\" (municipal code enforcement office), \"Polizeibehörde\" (police authority) or \"Stadtpolizei\" (city police) for general-duty bylaw enforcement units. Currently there are no general regulations or standards for the training, there are different responsibilities and powers. The equipment and uniforms differ from town to town, some carry weapons and wear police-like or police uniforms, others just wear labeled jackets over plain clothes. Most of the order enforcement offices are established by the municipalities, but can be established by the rural districts for their area of competence as well.\nIn New Zealand, local governments such as district/city councils usually appoint persons to undertake certain enforcement duties. Councils can employ persons such as: Enforcement Officers, Dog Control Officers, Parking Officers, Noise Control Officers, and Litter Officers. These positions are granted role-specific powers under legislation. Common parts of their roles may include enforcing bylaws made by the local council, such as dog-leash rules or parking restrictions.\n\nWithin Canadian jurisdictions, the term Bylaw Enforcement Officer may refer to one or more classes of employees charged with enforcing bylaws, such as Animal Control Officers, Parking & Traffic Enforcement Officers, Property Use Inspectors, Building Inspectors, and others, but more commonly refers to a person employed in a uniformed capacity for the purpose of enforcing a variety of bylaws in a high visibility role. Increasingly, municipalities are opting for this model of bylaw enforcement, as a multi-purpose approach to bylaw enforcement is less costly while offering more flexibility. Incumbents to such positions often require a higher degree of skill and experience than those employed in stratified enforcement roles. Many municipalities seek to recruit former or retired police officers to these positions, but the field has undergone significant change in the past several decades, and increased reliance on bylaw officers on the part of the municipal governments has expedited the professionalization of this field. Many Police Academies and/or Public Administration schools offer specialized training in bylaw enforcement.\n\nMost bylaw enforcement services are structured in one of the following ways:\n\n\nFor example, someone employed as a Bylaw Enforcement Officer in the general enforcement model may be attending to a call of an illegally parked vehicle and drive by a freshly erected sign which contravenes city regulation on where signs may be posted. A Parking Enforcement Officer attending the same call in a city which uses the stratified enforcement model would not take responsibility for signage issues and would not pay attention to the sign, or would likely even know that the sign has been posted illegally. His mind would be focused on the job at hand, which is only parking enforcement, and nothing else. In that model, a special complaint would usually have to be received from someone bothered by the sign enough and determined enough to have the issue taken up by the city, and the issue would hopefully be forwarded to the Signage Inspector working in the City Hall headquarters. The Inspector would then probably draft a letter and have the letter mailed. It would then take weeks, perhaps months to have the sign removed and the issue resolved; if the person who placed the sign fails to remove it, the Inspector would probably contact the engineering department or the maintenance crew supervisor and ask that a work order be made for the removal of the sign. The Inspector would most likely not issue tickets, and would \"manage\" the problem rather than \"enforce\" the bylaw. It would then take another period of time before the workorder was filled on a priority sequence. The general Bylaw Enforcement Officer working in a city with the more flexible unified model, on the other hand, could take proactive measures and attend to the problem immediately, since he is already on the scene, issuing a parking ticket. He would ascertain who the sign belongs to, attend the business being advertised on the sign, and can demand immediate corrective action in-person, and/or can remove the sign and/or provide a deadline and/or issue fines. Because general Bylaw Enforcement Officers are also responsible for animal control, they operate vans or trucks which can then serve the multi-purpose of having the necessary equipment, tools (such as pickers, shovels, wire, etc.) and cargo space at hand to impound illegally placed signs, clean up debris, or transport equipment. The unified model is therefore often seen as less wasteful, more efficient, more effective and offering a greater degree of accountability with less red tape.\n\nToday, all bylaw enforcement officers employed in Canada are \"de facto\" Peace Officers; in numerous provinces, bylaw officers are also \"de jure\" Peace Officers for the purpose of enforcing municipal laws, having been sworn under various Police Acts. Courts have ruled on several occasions, most recently in 2000 (in \"R. v. Turko\"), that the definition of Peace Officer under section 2 of the Criminal Code of Canada includes bylaw officers as \"other person[s] employed for the preservation or maintenance of the public peace or for the service or execution of civil process.\" As such, while actually engaged in the execution of their duties, Bylaw Enforcement Officers are Peace Officers, independent of whether they are sworn or unsworn constables.\n\nThis was first proven in court in 1973, when two men were charged with Obstructing a Peace Officer in the Yukon Territory Magistrates Court in \"R. vs Jones and Hubert\" for their part in removing an impounded dog from an animal control van, contrary to the instructions given to them by an Animal Control Officer of the local municipality. This was the first \"Peace Officer\" test before a Canadian federal court to determine whether the definition of peace officer in the Criminal Code of Canada can be extended to bylaw officers, as \"other persons employed for the preservation of peace.\" The Honourable Justice O'Connor ruled that the Animal Control Officer was in fact a Peace Officer, under the Criminal Code, but only while in the performance of his duty, and not for the purposes of any activities unrelated to his duties (such as enforcing criminal law). Furthermore, Justice O'Connor highlighted the severity and criminality of obstructing a bylaw officer: \"It was submitted [to me] by the defendants that [they should have been charged under a section of the bylaw for hindering the bylaw officer, and not under the Criminal Code]. Having concluded that Mr. Malloy [the bylaw officer] was a peace officer for Criminal Code purposes, and having concluded that the charge under s. 118 of the Criminal Code applies [now sec. 129], I doubt whether s. 13 of the dog bylaw is intra vires of the council of the City of Whitehorse [in other words, who is or is not a peace officer is not up to municipal governments]. \"Obstruction of an animal control officer is a matter of criminal law over which the federal government has legislative jurisdiction.\" ... In any event it is not for the council of the City of Whitehorse to determine who is a peace officer for the purposes of the Criminal Code. That can only be done by Parliament.\"\n\nSince then, several other court decisions have reaffirmed this ruling: in \"Moore v R\", the Manitoba County Court held that a Poundkeeper was a peace officer within the meaning of Section 2 of the Criminal Code. Most recently, in 2000, in \"R vs Turko\", the Provincial Court of British Columbia ruled that a Capital Regional District (CRD) Bylaw Enforcement Officers were justified in arresting a person for failing to provide identification while engaged in enforcement of an anti-smoking bylaw, as the latter's refusal to provide identification constituted Obstruction of a Peace Officer (contrary to sec. 129 of the Criminal Code). \"I conclude,\" Judge Ehrcke wrote in the judgment against Mr. Turko, \"based on the duties the officers in this case were exercising that they were peace officers engaged in their duties when they attempted to enforce the bylaw against the accused. They were maintaining and preserving the public peace.\" Mr. Turko was convicted of Obstructing of a Peace Officer and Assault on a Peace Officer.\n\nNot only did the Turko decision confirm Bylaw Officers were Peace Officers within the meaning of the Criminal Code, but it held that a bylaw officer had the powers to detain or arrest a person for failing to identify themselves according to section 129.\n\nThis was further upheld in \"Woodward v. Capital Regional District et al. (2005)\", where two Bylaw Officers used force, including batons, to arrest a person for obstruction. Judge M. Hubbard ruled that Bylaw Officers were justified in arresting a person for failing to provide identification, and in so doing, using whatever reasonable force was necessary to subdue a person.\n\nIn Alberta, section 555(1) of the Municipal Government Act states that “A person who is appointed as a bylaw enforcement officer is, in the execution of enforcement duties, responsible for the preservation and maintenance of the public peace”.\n\nSection 15(2) of Ontario's Police Services Act R.S.O. 1990, states \"Municipal law enforcement officers are peace officers for the purpose of enforcing municipal by-laws.\" Similar sections exist in most Provincial Police Acts.\n\nFor bylaw officers, this is generally good news, as it means that those persons who may be employed as bylaw officers without having been sworn under provincial acts are nonetheless protected under the Criminal Code definition of Peace Officer. This has somewhat convoluted the process of legally appointing bylaw officers. In British Columbia, for example, a person may be appointed as a Bylaw Officer through the \"Community Charter,\" which sets out different powers & responsibilities the Province of BC delegates to municipalities. However, the Provincial \"Police Act,\" which sets out various rules pertaining to police structure and administration in BC, also provides a mechanism for appointing bylaw officers.\n\nIt is a criminal offense for a person to fail to identify themselves to a bylaw officer in lawful execution of his or her duty (Obstructing a Peace Officer, sec 129 CCC), and a person could be charged with the greater charge of Assaulting a Peace Officer if assault were to occur. As well, instances of someone obstructing a bylaw officer and being charged with Obstruction of a Peace Officer, as well as many cases of Assault of a Peace Officer, have been tested in the courts, as shown in \"Turko\" and \"Jones & Hubert.\" However, how far the Peace Officer status extends to bylaw officers in other contexts is unclear, and will likely be challenged in the future. Some municipalities now use bylaw officers to stop and inspect commercial vehicles and even for non-criminal enforcement of marijuana grow operations. However, although it is clear that sections on obstruction and assault (for their own protection) apply to bylaw officers, it is unclear to what extent other peace officer powers apply to bylaw officers, particularly in cases where the bylaw officer gives direction to party that disobeys (i.e. the bylaw officer attempts to pull over a vehicle which intentionally fails to stop or gives lawful instructions to someone who then disobeys that instruction). It is also unclear to what extent peace officer status applies to non-proprietary (contract) employees, such as those employed by a security company on contract to a municipality.\n\nMunicipalities are under ever-increasing pressure to provide services quickly and cheaply, and many city governments see bylaw officers as attractive cheap alternatives to police for enforcement of non-criminal or less serious issues. As well, police departments themselves are under increased pressures in everything from staffing and finances, to the requirement to conduct police work within an increasingly complex legal framework brought about by increased litigiousness in society and more onerous limits & guidelines imposed on the police in order to protect individual rights and freedoms. As such, police departments are frequently unable or unwilling to perform duties related to the enforcement of non-criminal statutes or municipal bylaws.\n\nMany cities are finding themselves in situations where the police have stopped performing certain duties which they performed in the past. Failure to regulate certain activities in their municipality then creates problems and generates complaints and public frustration. This commonly results in the relegation of this task to bylaw officers.\n\nBecause the field developed in such an unusual way, essentially to accommodate changes and professionalization of policing, municipal employees of this class began taking on tasks historically performed by police officers, but without any policing powers or protections under the law. Meter Maids initially serviced parking meters, which had been a fairly new phenomenon in North American cities of the 1950s. Eventually, as traffic police officers only rarely enforced parking meter regulation, the cities required Meter Maids to write parking tickets. By the 1970s, most large municipalities had Meter Maids, who, through the course of the 1980s & the 90's, transformed into Parking Enforcement Officers and were asked to enforce many more regulations than just those pertaining to meters. In recent history, Parking Enforcement Officers are increasingly taking on other duties, and municipalities (for the reasons mentioned above) are amalgamating specialized enforcement into general duty bylaw enforcement.\n\nBecause changes of this sort were unplanned, employees performing various classes of bylaw enforcement (parking, animal control, inspection work) frequently performed a duty of an officer of the law or as a person of authority. Since most bylaw officers were not sworn peace officers (and many are still not), the limits of their authority and exact definition of their powers have occasionally faced challenges.\n\nMany provincial and state laws are being changed to help clarify status of non-constabulary bylaw officers. In British Columbia, when the new enabling charter was amended, (called 'Community Charter'), sections specifically referring to bylaw officers were included, including the power of bylaw officers to enter upon private property and investigate without warrant, something police are unable to do. The rationale behind such provisions (approved by the courts) is that bylaw matters are of significant importance to the public welfare (such as verifying that a building was properly constructed or that garbage is not illegally disposed of), yet violations carry only summary convictions (fines, or in most extreme cases, very very small jail terms if the issue is extremely serious and the person does not pay the fine) and are not as serious and deprecatory to a person's reputation and well-being as criminal offences. As such, the courts have determined that such powers are not unreasonable limitations on a person's Charter right of not being subject to \"summary searches.\"\n\nMany provinces have also standardized training for bylaw enforcement officers. The Alberta Municipal Government Act has no requirements for training of Bylaw Officers in Alberta. But formal training is available through the Alberta Municipal Enforcement Association and other organizations. If the person is also appointed as a Community Peace Officer then they are required to go through a 6-week training program at the Alberta Staff College or complete training that has been approved by the Solicitor General’s Office depending on what Provincial Acts are being enforced. The Justice Institute of British Columbia and other private training companies offer specialized courses to those wishing to attain certification in the field in British Columbia.\n\nSometimes, the enforcement of particular bylaws may be conducted on contract by a private company. Such companies are either highly specialized in a single area of bylaw enforcement (such as animal control in the case of the SPCA), or provide security guards, who are then specially trained to handle specific tasks, usually limited to traffic or parking enforcement. The most recent trend is to recall many of the services previously contracted out and put systems in place to conduct such services in-house. As such, contracting-out is not a great concern in this field.\n\nAll of the changes mentioned above have created a class of employees, who previously just handled one task or assignment, such as animal control, who are now engaged in a variety of quasi-police activities, especially enforcement roles that for lack of staffing are not handled by police officers. Although some work conducted by bylaw enforcement officers can be very minor in gravity, such as issuing tickets for expired meters, the investigation and enforcement duties conducted by bylaw officers are extremely important and necessary for the well-being of society. Dog attacks, for example, can be very serious events, where people or other animals can be gravely hurt. In most jurisdictions with bylaw officers, investigation work concerning dog attacks is conducted solely by the bylaw officers, without any police involvement. Such work can prevent future attacks, protect society from harm and/or cause an animal to be euthanized and its owners to face severe fines. Bylaw Enforcement Officers care for and protect animals, help mediate neighbourhood disputes, assure public safety by investigating illegal garbage/waste dumping and enforce regulations, the absence of which can severely impact a person's well-being, such as late-night noise from frequent parties that prevents a neighbourhood from sleeping. Bylaw enforcement officers are the first line of defense against a physical degradation of a neighbourhood or area, which can start with a broken window, lead to unsightly premises, and soon be littered with garbage, illegal signs, uninsured vehicles and lower real estate values. Bylaw enforcement is instrumental in preserving well-functioning neighbourhoods and fixing problematic ones.\n\nIn the United States, and even in some places in Canada, municipal enforcement personnel can be found in police and municipal departments providing security to prisoners, guarding court houses, investigating dog fighting or writing parking tickets. This has led to increased police training, and in the United States, arming of these officials. The New York branch of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) employs several animal \"cops\" who are armed and have policing powers. This arrangement is becoming more common throughout the United States, particularly in larger cities where civilian enforcement personnel have difficulty conducting investigations due to a lack of cooperation from suspects. In Canada, many jurisdictions are training their bylaw personnel in self-defense and control tactics, and issuing equipment such as tactical batons and OC spray. Such changes have also made a career in municipal enforcement more dangerous, requiring more skills and training, and accordingly offering greater compensation. Security clearances have also become the standard requirement, and as such, the process of becoming employed in one of these positions has become more time consuming. This has also made a career in bylaw enforcement more desirable than ever. The Justice Institute of British Columbia Bylaw Compliance, Enforcement and Investigative Skills Certificate Program is designed to develop the skills, knowledge and abilities required to work successfully in bylaw enforcement in British Columbia. Levels 1 and 2 of this certificate have been endorsed by the Licence Inspectors and Bylaw Officers Association of British Columbia.However, this field is growing quickly as municipalities seek to streamline costs and save on policing expenses; as well, many incumbents in the field are older, and due to relatively good municipal pension options, early retirements are possible and therefore prospects for employment in this area are good. Current standards for employment of uniformed bylaw enforcement officers are usually not codified state or province-wide, as flexibility is necessary, but usually include the precondition that candidates have a fairly clean driving record and an ability to pass a criminal records check. As the use of bylaw officers for more complex tasks increases, it is to be expected that standards for the profession will likely become regulated or imposed from a state/provincial governmental body.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3593939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3593939", "title": "Canadian Association of Elizabeth Fry Societies", "text": "Canadian Association of Elizabeth Fry Societies\n\nThe Canadian Association of Elizabeth Fry Societies (CAEFS) is an association of groups operating under the Elizabeth Fry Society banner, similar in many respects to the John Howard Society. The Elizabeth Fry Society groups work on issues affecting women and girls in the justice system. The societies take their name from prison reformer Elizabeth Fry.\n\nThe organization was started in 1969, with formal incorporation as a non-profit organization occurring in 1978. They help female offenders to re-integrate into society. They work independently from the government.\n\nThe original Elizabeth Fry Society of Canada was founded in 1939 by Member of Parliament Agnes Macphail.\n\nThe current Executive Director of CAEFS is Kassandra Churcher.\n\nThe Elizabeth Fry Society has also taken an active approach to criminal cases involving females. They have had intervenor status in a number of Supreme Court of Canada cases including R v Ryan, in which Nicole Patricia Ryan was arrested by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police after attempting to hire an undercover officer as a hitman to kill her husband. The RCMP were criticized by the Supreme Court for failing to protect Ryan from an abusive husband, however both the husband and the RCMP refute the reported abuse. The husband was not called to testify during the trial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9353915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9353915", "title": "Colored dissolved organic matter", "text": "Colored dissolved organic matter\n\nColored dissolved organic matter (CDOM) is the optically measurable component of dissolved organic matter in water. Also known as \"chromophoric\" dissolved organic matter, \"yellow substance\", and \"gelbstoff\", CDOM occurs naturally in aquatic environments and is a complex mixture of many hundreds to thousands of individual, unique organic matter molecules, which are primarily leached from decaying detritus and organic matter. CDOM most strongly absorbs short wavelength light ranging from blue to ultraviolet, whereas pure water absorbs longer wavelength red light. Therefore, water with little or no CDOM, such as the open ocean, appears blue. Waters containing high amounts of CDOM can range from brown, as in many rivers, to yellow and yellow-brown in coastal waters. In general, CDOM concentrations are much higher in fresh waters and estuaries than in the open ocean, though concentrations are highly variable.\n\nThe concentration of CDOM can have a significant effect on biological activity in aquatic systems. CDOM diminishes light intensity as it penetrates water. Very high concentrations of CDOM can have a limiting effect on photosynthesis and inhibit the growth of phytoplankton, which form the basis of oceanic food chains and are a primary source of atmospheric oxygen. CDOM also absorbs harmful UVA/B radiation, protecting organisms from DNA damage.\n\nAbsorption of UV radiation causes CDOM to \"bleach\", reducing its optical density and absorptive capacity. This bleaching (photodegradation) of CDOM produces low-molecular-weight organic compounds which may be utilized by microbes, release nutrients that may be used by phytoplankton as a nutrient source for growth, and generates reactive oxygen species, which may damage tissues and alter the bioavailability of limiting trace metals.\n\nCDOM can be detected and measured from space using satellite remote sensing and often interferes with the use of satellite spectrometers to remotely estimate phytoplankton populations. As a pigment necessary for photosynthesis, chlorophyll is a key indicator of the phytoplankton abundance. However, CDOM and chlorophyll both absorb light in the same spectral range so it is often difficult to differentiate between the two.\n\nAlthough variations in CDOM are primarily the result of natural processes including changes in the amount and frequency of precipitation, human activities such as logging, agriculture, effluent discharge, and wetland drainage can affect CDOM levels in fresh water and estuarine systems. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3168340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3168340", "title": "Commonwealth (U.S. state)", "text": "Commonwealth (U.S. state)\n\nCommonwealth is a designation used by four of the 50 states of the United States in their full official state names: Kentucky, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and Virginia. Commonwealth is a traditional English term for a political community founded for the common good. Prior to the formation of the United States of America in 1776, all four were part of Great Britain's possessions along the Atlantic coast of North America. As such, they share a strong influence of English common law in some of their laws and institutions.\n\nThe term \"commonwealth\" does not describe or provide for any specific political status or legal relationship when used by a state. Those that do use it are equal to those that do not. A traditional English term for a political community founded for the common good, it is used symbolically to emphasize that these states have a \"government based on the common consent of the people\" as opposed to one legitimized through their earlier colonial status that was derived from the British crown. It refers to the common \"wealth\", or welfare, of the public and is derived from a loose translation of the Latin term \"res publica\".\n\nCriminal charges in these four states are brought in the name of the Commonwealth.\n\nBesides the four aforementioned states, other states have also on occasion used the term \"commonwealth\" to refer to themselves:\n\nTwo U.S. territories are also designated as commonwealths: Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana Islands. When used in connection with areas under U.S. sovereignty that are not states, the term broadly describes an area that is self-governing under a constitution of its own adoption and whose right of self-government will not be unilaterally withdrawn by the United States Congress.\n\nOn September 28, 1786, the residents of Kentucky County began petitioning the Virginia legislature for permission to become a \"free and independent state, to be known by the name of the \"Commonwealth\" of Kentucky\". On June 1, 1792, Kentucky County officially became a state. As in Virginia, the official title of the elected local prosecutor in each of Kentucky's political subdivisions is the Commonwealth's Attorney, as opposed to State's Attorney in other States or the more standard District Attorney. Kentucky is the only state outside of the original Thirteen Colonies that uses commonwealth in its name.\n\nMassachusetts is officially named \"The Commonwealth of Massachusetts\" by its constitution. The name \"State of Massachusetts Bay\" was used in all acts and resolves up to 1780 and in the first draft of the constitution. The current name can be traced to the second draft of the state constitution, which was written by John Adams and ratified in 1780.\n\nIn Massachusetts, the term \"State\" is occasionally used in an official manner, usually in a compound structure rather than as a standalone noun. This is evident in the names of the Massachusetts State Police, the Massachusetts State House, and the Bridgewater State Hospital.\n\nThe Seal of Pennsylvania does not use the term, but legal processes are in the name of the Commonwealth, and it is a traditional official designation used in referring to the state. In 1776, Pennsylvania's first state constitution referred to it as both \"Commonwealth\" and \"State\", a pattern of usage that was perpetuated in the constitutions of 1790, 1838, 1874, and 1958. One of Pennsylvania's two intermediate appellate courts is called the Commonwealth Court.\n\nThe name \"Commonwealth of Virginia\" dates back to its independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain. Virginia's first constitution (adopted on June 29, 1776) directed that \"Commissions and Grants shall run, In the Name of the commonwealth of Virginia, and bear test by the Governor with the Seal of the Commonwealth annexed.\" The Secretary of the Commonwealth still issues commissions in this manner.\n\nAmong other references, the constitution furthermore dictated that criminal indictments were to conclude \"against the peace and dignity of the Commonwealth\". Additionally, the official title of the elected local prosecutor in each of Virginia's political subdivisions is the Commonwealth's Attorney, as opposed to State's Attorney in other States or the more standard District Attorney.\n\nIn Virginia, the term \"state\" is sometimes used in an official manner, usually in a compound structure rather than as a standalone noun. This is evident in the names of the Virginia State Corporation Commission, the Virginia State Police, and the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. The state university in Richmond is known as Virginia Commonwealth University; there is also a Virginia State University, located in Ettrick.\n\n"}
{"id": "10975258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10975258", "title": "Cultural dissonance", "text": "Cultural dissonance\n\nCultural dissonance (education, sociology, anthropology and cultural studies) is an uncomfortable sense of discord, disharmony, confusion, or conflict experienced by people in the midst of change in their cultural environment. The changes are often unexpected, unexplained or not understandable due to various types of cultural dynamics.\n\nStudies into cultural dissonance take on a wide socio-cultural scope of analysis that inquire into economics, politics, values, learning styles, cultural factors, such as language, tradition, ethnicity, cultural heritage, cultural history, educational formats, classroom design, and even socio-cultural issues such as ethnocentricism, racism and their respective historical legacies in the cultures.\n\nResearch topics in cultural dissonance tend to be interdisciplinary drawing from a wide range of disciplines and applying the findings to equally diverse fields and industries.\n\nEdward J. Hedican wrote an article in the Department of Sociology & Anthropology at the University of Guelph, Ontario. In it he noted the possibility of alleviating acculturative pressures, and their disruptive effects on the sense of aboriginal sense of worth and identity. He proposed, \"...the development of interethnic communication or ethnopolitics of community competence. This, in turn, will lead to increased native control over educational, economic, & political institutions, decreased cultural dissonance, & a more positive native identity.\" (Hedican)\n\nPaul Bohannan wrote an \"anthropological treatise\" outlining \"Seven organizing principles unique to humans: contract, role, ranking property, markets, networks, & public relations. These characteristics are built on to analyze dyads, triads, & chains, to show how innovation, as well as how cultural dissonance can lead to cultural traps.\" (Bohannan)\n\nWinifred L. Macdonald concluded in her thesis that, \"... shared markers of language and ethnicity were not sufficient to ensure that the cultural differences in education systems were not experienced by the families.\" \nMacdonald also observed that cultural dissonance is sometimes said to inhibit socio-cultural adaptation.\n\nSusan Black, an education research consultant, wrote an article in the \"American School Board Journal\" of the National School Board Association that summarized some of the actions recommended by some researchers in education-related cultural dissonance. The recommendations for educators included:\n\nOther general findings include: \n\nIn their book \"Children of Immigration\", Carola and Marcelo Suárez-Orozco discuss dissonance as it relates to Latinos in the United States. Suarez Orozco found that second-generation Hispanics face more acute forms of cultural dissonance than their first generation parents. They also noticed that second-generation individuals also face \"special difficulties\" that lead to \"three general patterns of adjustment\"\n\nSuárez-Orozco also compared the experience of exiles from Cuba being reunited with family members with the \"...alienated refugees from war-torn Central America...\" as they worked through their own adjustment issues, and concluded that Central Americans had to deal with more cultural dissonance than their Cuban counterparts.\n\nLarry A. Gould wrote a paper for Northern Arizona University\n\"his research reports on the link between feelings of spirituality & how Navajo police officers tend to enforce European-based law. Previous research suggests that a link exists between the officers' depth of feeling of spirituality & the officers' attitude toward the effectiveness traditional methods of social control; however, this research goes a step further & examines the impact of cultural dissonance on the stressors faced by Navajo police officers. The enforcement behavior of the Navajo officers was used as a proxy for the intensity of their feelings concerning the usefulness of traditional vs European-based forces of social control; the underlying assumption being tested is that self-determination is not only a state of law but a state of psychological being. A snowball method of sample development was used to select officers for intensive interviews. The findings suggest that the officers' feeling of spiritual connectedness to his/her culture is inversely related to the strictness of the enforcement of European-based laws. In other words, the more spiritual the officer, the less likely the officer is to rely solely on European-based laws, & the greater the reliance on other methods of problems solving. The finding also suggest that in addition to the stressors normally encounter by all police officers, Navajo officers faced additional stressors that are specific to indigenous officers policing in indigenous communities. 1 Table, 41 References. Adapted from the source document.\" (Gould)\n\nTracy Taylor wrote a paper for the \"Journal of Sport and Social Issues\". In it she wrote \"...This research investigates issues of cultural diversity & inclusiveness in women's netball in Australia using the rhetoric of exclusion. Women & girls from culturally diverse backgrounds spoke of reinforced difference & cultural assimilation in their netball experiences. Women born in other English-speaking countries recalled feelings of inclusion & limited cultural dissonance & indicated that netball helped them feel as part of their new community & gain social capital via participation. Although experiences of explicit exclusion or racial discrimination were virtually nonreported, some women felt a strong sense of cultural conformity to Anglo-centric expectations of behavior. The women's stories & experiences suggest that women from culturally diverse backgrounds have found few opportunities to express their cultural distinctiveness through mainstream Australian sports such as netball. The conclusion reached after this examination is that the rhetoric of exclusion is pervasive in Australian netball & unlikely to change in the near future. 1 Table, 76 References. [Reprinted by permission of Sage Publications Inc., copyright 2004.]\" (Taylor)\n\nSide 2 of the Firesign Theatre's 1968 album, \"Waiting for the Electrician or Someone Like Him\", features a humorous 18-minute radio drama of a traveler experiencing cultural dissonance on his arrival in a foreign country. For example, the traveler struggles to communicate his wish to send a telegram, only to be informed that yes, his telegram has been sent, at considerable cost, and that he will be receiving it in about an hour.\n\n\nArticles\n\nTheses, dissertations and other scholarly papers\n"}
{"id": "42187405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42187405", "title": "Danish Party", "text": "Danish Party\n\nThe Danish Party () was a political party in the German Empire.\n\nThe party was established in 1871 to represent the 50,000-strong Danish population of North Schleswig, who remained opposed to their separation from Denmark following the Second Schleswig War in 1864. It won a seat in every Reichstag elected between 1871 and 1912. Its best performance was in the 1881 elections, the only occasion on which it won two seats.\n\nThe party disappeared after World War I, following the Schleswig Plebiscites and the return of Northern Schleswig to Denmark.\n"}
{"id": "32804111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32804111", "title": "Distinguished Career Intelligence Medal", "text": "Distinguished Career Intelligence Medal\n\nThe Distinguished Career Intelligence Medal is awarded by the Central Intelligence Agency for an individual’s cumulative record of service reflecting a pattern of increasing levels of responsibility or increasingly strategic impact and with distinctly exceptional achievements that constitute a major contribution to the mission of the Agency. \n\n"}
{"id": "19429922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19429922", "title": "Donor's Bill of Rights", "text": "Donor's Bill of Rights\n\nThe Donor's Bill of Rights was created by the Association of Fundraising Professionals, the Association for Healthcare Philanthropy (AHP), the Council for Advancement and Support of Education, and the Giving Institute: Leading Consultants to Non-Profits. It has been endorsed by numerous organizations in the United States.\n\nPhilanthropy is based on voluntary action for the common good. It is a tradition of giving and sharing that is primary to the quality of life. To ensure that philanthropy merits the respect and trust of the general public, and that donors and prospective donors can have full confidence in the nonprofit organizations and causes they are asked to support, we declare that all donors have these rights:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23573352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23573352", "title": "Economic liberalism", "text": "Economic liberalism\n\nEconomic liberalism is an economic system organized on individual lines, which means the greatest possible number of economic decisions are made by individuals or households rather than by collective institutions or organizations. It includes a spectrum of different economic policies, such as freedom of movement, but its basis is on strong support for a market economy and private property in the means of production. Although economic liberals can also be supportive of government regulation to a certain degree, they tend to oppose government intervention in the free market when it inhibits free trade and open competition.\n\nEconomic liberalism is associated with free markets and private ownership of capital assets. Historically, economic liberalism arose in response to mercantilism and feudalism. Today, economic liberalism is also considered opposed to non-capitalist economic orders, such as socialism and planned economies. It also contrasts with protectionism because of its support for free trade and open markets.\n\nAn economy that is managed according to these precepts may be described as a liberal economy.\n\nArguments in favor of economic liberalism were advanced during the Enlightenment, opposing mercantilism and feudalism. It was first analyzed by Adam Smith in \"An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations\", which advocated minimal interference of government in a market economy, though it did not necessarily oppose the state's provision of basic public goods with what constitutes public goods originally being seen as very limited in scope. Smith claimed that if everyone is left to his own economic devices instead of being controlled by the state, then the result would be a harmonious and more equal society of ever-increasing prosperity. This underpinned the move towards a capitalist economic system in the late 18th century and the subsequent demise of the mercantilist system.\n\nPrivate property and individual contracts form the basis of economic liberalism. The early theory was based on the assumption that the economic actions of individuals are largely based on self-interest (invisible hand) and that allowing them to act without any restrictions will produce the best results for everyone (spontaneous order), provided that at least minimum standards of public information and justice exist, e.g. no one should be allowed to coerce, steal, or commit fraud and there is freedom of speech and press.\n\nInitially, the economic liberals had to contend with the supporters of feudal privileges for the wealthy, aristocratic traditions and the rights of kings to run national economies in their own personal interests. By the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th, these were largely defeated.\n\nToday, economic liberalism is associated with classical liberalism, neoliberalism, propertarian libertarianism and some schools of conservatism.\n\nEconomic liberalism opposes government intervention on the grounds that the state often serves dominant business interests, distorting the market to their favor and thus leading to inefficient outcomes. Ordoliberalism and various schools of social liberalism based on classical liberalism include a broader role for the state, but do not seek to replace private enterprise and the free market with public enterprise and economic planning. For example, a social market economy is a largely free market economy based on a free price system and private property, but is supportive of government activity to promote competitive markets and social welfare programs to address social inequalities that result from free market outcomes. \n\n"}
{"id": "1984896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1984896", "title": "Edward Mezvinsky", "text": "Edward Mezvinsky\n\nEdward Maurice Mezvinsky (; born January 17, 1937) is a former U.S. Representative and a felon. A Democrat, he represented Iowa's 1st congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives for two terms (1973–77).\n\nMezvinsky grew up in Ames, Iowa, and played high school football there. He received his law degree from the University of California, Hastings College of the Law (1965). After being elected to the Iowa Legislature (1968), he lost a race for Congress in 1970, then won in 1972 and was re-elected in 1974. He made several unsuccessful U.S. Senate attempts in the 1980s. In 2001, he was convicted of 31 charges of felony fraud, and served five years in federal prison.\n\nIn 2010, he became father-in-law to Chelsea Clinton, the daughter of Hillary and Bill Clinton.\n\nMezvinsky grew up in Ames, Iowa, the son of Jewish grocery store owner Abe Mezvinsky. His father was born in Russia and his mother in Poland. He was an all-state football end and member of the Ames High School state championship basketball and track teams of 1955.\n\nMezvinsky attended the University of Iowa, graduating in 1960. He went on to earn a masters in political science from the University of California, Berkeley in 1963, and a J.D. from the University of California, Hastings College of Law in 1965. He returned briefly to Iowa to practice law, but quickly began a political career. In 1965, he worked for former Rep. Neal Smith in Washington on lobbyist disclosure and ethics bills. He was elected to the Iowa Legislature in 1968, where he attracted publicity as a consumers' advocate. He lost a 1970 campaign to unseat Republican Congressman Fred Schwengel in Iowa's 1st congressional district by only 765 votes (out of over 120,000 cast). After reapportionment improved his chances, Mezvinsky won a 1972 rematch.\n\nDuring his first term in Congress, he sat on the House Judiciary Committee and voted for the impeachment of President Richard Nixon for his activities in the Watergate scandal. He was one of nine Democratic members of the committee who voted for all five articles of impeachment drafted against Nixon; three were reported to the House, while two failed. \n\nAlthough Mezvinsky defeated Davenport businessman Jim Leach in 1974 in the immediate aftermath of the impeachment hearings, Leach defeated him two years later, in 1976. Six months into his first term in Congress, Mezvinsky separated from his wife of ten years Myra Shulman; they were divorced two weeks after his 1974 re-election. During his final term he married Marjorie Margolies, a television journalist. After his 1976 defeat, they relocated to suburban Philadelphia. After serving in Congress, Mezvinsky was United States Ambassador to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights from 1977-79.\n\nMezvinsky unsuccessfully sought the Democratic nomination for the United States Senate seat held by retiring incumbent Republican Richard Schweiker in 1980, but lost to former Pittsburgh Mayor Pete Flaherty. Flaherty lost the general election by a wide margin to Republican, later Democrat Arlen Specter, who went on to serve five terms in the Senate.\n\nHe became chairman of the Pennsylvania Democratic Party, and made a run for state attorney general in 1988. He won the Democratic primary, but lost to Republican Ernie Preate in the general election. He also unsuccessfully sought the Democratic nomination for lieutenant governor in 1990, losing to incumbent Mark Singel.\n\nFrom 1993-95, Mezvinsky's wife Marjorie Margolies served a term in Congress. Together, they raised eleven children, three of whom were adopted. In 1998, she was the Democratic nominee for lieutenant governor of Pennsylvania. In 2000, she was running for the Democratic nomination for the U.S. Senate when her husband's business problems forced them to file for bankruptcy and forced her abrupt withdrawal. They divorced several years later.\n\nMezvinsky and his wife Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky became close to U.S. President Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton in the 1990s, both families met when they attended the annual Renaissance Weekend gathering in South Carolina. President Clinton was reportedly indebted to Margolies-Mezvinsky since she provided the crucial vote in the House of Representatives to pass his budget and tax bill, despite being \"one of very few Democrats who represented a district with more constituents who'd get tax hikes than tax cuts, and in her campaign she'd promised not to vote for any tax increases\", which cost her re-election in 1994. The Mezvinskys were frequent guests at White House state dinners during the Clinton administration.\n\nIn 2010 Mezvinsky's son, Marc Mezvinsky, married Chelsea Clinton, daughter of Bill and Hillary.\n\nIn March 2001, Mezvinsky was indicted and later pleaded guilty to 31 of 69 felony charges of bank fraud, mail fraud, and wire fraud. Mezvinsky, who had been working as an attorney at the time, was funneling embezzled and fraudulently obtained money to West African con men after falling victim to an online advance-fee scam. In the waning days of the Clinton presidency, before the indictment was handed down, Mezvinsky's wife wrote personally to President Clinton requesting a pardon for her husband. Clinton declined. Nearly $10 million was involved in the crimes. Shortly after Mezvinsky's indictment, he was diagnosed with bipolar disorder, but the judge at his trial disallowed a mental illness defense.\n\nHe entered prison in February 2003, and served his time at Federal Prison Camp, Eglin. Marjorie Margolies requested a pardon for Mezvinsky in the waning days of the Clinton administration but it was not acted upon. Mezvinsky, Federal Bureau of Prisons # 55040-066, was released in April 2008, after 5 years. He remained on federal probation until 2011, and still owed $9.4 million in restitution to his victims.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31807933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31807933", "title": "Embassy of Bahrain in Washington, D.C.", "text": "Embassy of Bahrain in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe Embassy of Bahrain in Washington, D.C. is the diplomatic mission of the Kingdom of Bahrain to the United States. It is located at 3502 International Drive, Northwest, Washington, D.C., in the Cleveland Park neighborhood.\nThe embassy also operates a Consulate-General in New York City.\n\nThe Ambassador is H.E. Shaikh Abdullah Bin Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Khalifa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "424825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424825", "title": "English Democrats", "text": "English Democrats\n\nThe English Democrats is an English nationalist political party in England.\n\nIn its 2016 manifesto, the party proposed a devolved English Parliament, instead of its 2014 suggestion that England should become an independent country. It presents itself as an English equivalent to the Scottish National Party, though the Scottish National Party is generally considered to be a centre-left party, whereas the English Democrats are on the right of the political spectrum. The English Democrats have welcomed defectors from the far-right British National Party into leadership roles and former members of the party have criticised informal links with other far-right organisations, though party leader Robin Tilbrook has stated that party members are expected to pledge their opposition to racism.\n\nThe party has had limited electoral success and has been regarded by some as a fringe party. At the English local elections in June 2009, the party's candidate Peter Davies won the mayoral election for the Metropolitan Borough of Doncaster. However, he announced his resignation from the party on 5 February 2013.\n\nIn 1998, in response to calls for the devolution of power to Scotland and Wales, Robin Tilbrook aimed at reforming the English National Party, which had ceased operating in 1981. This project included members of the Campaign for an English Parliament, a pressure group that lobbies for a devolved English Parliament. The party was relaunched as the \"English Democrats\" in September 2002, after merging with several other smaller political parties. In October 2004 the party merged with the Reform UK Party, which was a small splinter group from the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP). The New England Party merged with the English Democrats in February 2007.\n\nThe English Democrats were co-founders of the English Constitutional Convention, now defunct.\n\nIn December 2004, it was rumoured that Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former UKIP MEP had entered into negotiation to join the English Democrats. However, Kilroy-Silk formed Veritas instead.\n\nIn 2007, the columnist and TV medical doctor Vernon Coleman announced he had joined the English Democrats.\n\nThe party's most significant electoral success came when Peter Davies (a former UKIP and Reform UK member), its candidate for Mayor of Doncaster, was elected. Having received 16,961 votes in the first round, 189 votes behind the independent Michael Maye, Davies was returned in the second count on transfers of second preference votes, with 25,344 votes to 24,990. However, Davies announced his resignation from the party on 5 February 2013 citing \"a big influx of new members joining from the British National Party\". One of its councillors, Mick Glynn, resigned the following day after the party's chairman, Tilbrook, launched a personal attack on Davies, thus reducing its number of elected representatives to two. The English Democrats lost their remaining councillors in the 2015 local elections. On 18 September 2015, Veritas merged into the English Democrats.\n\nThe party claimed a total membership of 1,011 at the end of 2004, and 1,202 at the end of 2005.\n\nThe first person to stand as a candidate for the English Democrats was Gary Cowd, who stood in Rushmoor—West Heath Ward in North Hampshire in a council by-election in May 2003. Cowd was an active member of the English Democrats and a National Council member. He left the party in 2006.\n\nAt the 2004 Birmingham Hodge Hill by-election the English Democrat candidate received 277 votes, or 1.4% of the votes cast.\n\nThe party's slogan for the 2005 general election was \"The English Democrats – Putting England First!\" In total, the English Democrats fielded 25 candidates for the May 2005 general election, including Staffordshire South where the election was delayed until June due to the death of a candidate. The party withdrew its candidate in North Norfolk and endorsed the Conservative Party candidate, Iain Dale, as he had \"taken the issues of English discrimination seriously\".\n\nGarry Bushell, the former \"Sun\" journalist and current \"Daily Star Sunday\" TV critic, became the most high-profile candidate for the English Democrats, standing in the Greenwich and Woolwich constituency in London. Bushell's 1,216 votes (3.4%) beat the UKIP candidate, Stan Gain, who secured 709 votes (2.0%); this was the party's best result for the election though still a fifth-place performance.\n\nIn June 2005, Bushell also stood in Staffordshire South, where he received 643 votes (2.5%) coming fifth out of eight candidates. In 2011, Bushell announced that he would, in future, be supporting UKIP.\n\nThe English Democrats fielded Joanne Robinson as their candidate in the by-election forced by the resignation of former shadow home secretary David Davis from the House of Commons. Because of the issues raised by David Davis in the by-election, many parties other than the Conservatives, such as Labour, Liberal Democrats, United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) and British National Party (BNP) chose not to stand. Joanne Robinson came third, with 1,714 votes (7.2%), 44 votes fewer than the Green candidate received in second place. Of the 26 candidates she was one of only three to win back her deposit. This result is both the highest place gained and the highest percentage of the votes won by any English Democrat candidate in a parliamentary election or parliamentary by-election.\nThe English Democrats stood 107 candidates in the 2010 general election. 106 is the minimum number required to qualify for a Party Election Broadcast. The English Democrats received 64,826 votes, or 0.3% of the vote in England, and 0.2% of the vote in the United Kingdom. No candidates were elected but the party saved one deposit in the Doncaster North constituency, where candidate Wayne Crawshaw picked up 5.2% of the vote.\n\nIn subsequent by-elections, the party contested Oldham East and Saddleworth (where Stephen Morris polled 144 (0.4%)), Barnsley Central (Kevin Riddiough polled 544 (2.2%) votes), Feltham and Heston (Roger Cooper polled 322 (1.4%)), Corby (David Wickham polled 432 (1.2%) votes) and Rotherham (David Wildgoose polled 703 (3.3%) votes).\n\nAt the 2015 general election, the party contested 32 seats, securing a total of 6,531 votes (0.02%).\n\nIn the 2016 Batley and Spen by-election, the English Democrats received 4.8% of the votes, coming second to Labour's Tracy Brabin, when all of the other major parties did not stand.\n\nThe English Democrats stood candidates for the 2004 European Parliament election in five of the nine regions of England. The party’s 2004 election canvassing leaflet featured the slogan, \"Not left, not right, just English\". Its candidates received 130,056 votes in total.\n\nIn June 2009, the English Democrats contested elections to the European Parliament. The party fielded a full slate of candidates across the nine English European parliament constituencies. On 18 May 2009, the English Democrats broadcast their first national Party Election Broadcast. They came seventh in the election in England (ninth in the UK as a whole) with 279,801 votes or 1.8%, a rise from the 0.7% they received at the previous elections in 2004. The English Democrats do not stand in Northern Ireland, Scotland or Wales, and their vote across England in 2009 was 2.1%, an increase of 1.3% yet still did not keep their deposits except in Yorkshire and the Humber where they gained 2.6% of the vote. None of the English Democrats candidates were elected; the English Democrats were the highest-polling party across the UK not to have an MEP elected.\n\nThe English Democrats began their 2014 EU election campaign in September 2013 with an extensive social media campaign. On 30 April 2014, they held a rally at Fobbing in Essex, the site of the 1381 Peasants' Revolt, and declared, \"let the English revolt begin.\" The party fielded a full slate of candidates across the nine English European parliament constituencies on 22 May 2014. On 13 February 2014, party chairman Robin Tilbrook appeared on the BBC \"Daily Politics\" with Nicola Sturgeon, the deputy leader of the Scottish National Party. The English Democrats performed poorly at the election, taking just 0.8% of the votes, down more than 1% on 2009. They again failed to win any seats.\n\nIn November 2005, the party achieved its first electoral success when Paul Adams was elected to Crowborough Town Council, polling 120 votes, or 56.8% of the poll, on a turnout of 10%.\n\nIn the 2007 local elections, 78 candidates stood for election in boroughs and districts in 15 English counties, including 20 in Dartford and ten in Portsmouth. All were unsuccessful.\n\nIn 2008, the party fielded candidates in 12 district council elections. None was elected. The party's best results were when it came second to the Conservatives: in the Finningley ward of Doncaster and in three wards in Rochford.\n\nIn the 2009 English local elections, the party fielded 84 county council and local authority candidates, with a particular focus in Bristol, Essex, Hampshire, Kent, Northamptonshire, Nottinghamshire, Wiltshire and Lancashire. The party had an unexpected success when Peter Davies, its candidate for Mayor of Doncaster, was elected. Having received 16,961 votes in the first round, 189 votes behind the independent Michael Maye, Davies was returned in the second count on transfers of second preference votes, with 25,344 votes to 24,990.\n\nIn 2010, the party also stood in the local elections on 6 May, but did not publish a list of candidates. The two sitting English Democrat councillors on Calderdale and Blackburn with Darwen councils retired, and the party did not nominate any candidates to contest the seats.\n\nIn 2011, the EDP stood about 130 candidates in district level elections; two were elected. The Boston Borough Council elections on 5 May 2011, saw the election of the first two EDP councillors. David Owens and Elliott Fountain were elected in the Fenside Ward for a four-year term, thus becoming the only EDP members of a district council to be elected by public vote. A sitting EDP councillor on Peterborough council lost his seat.\n\nThe party fielded a candidate in the 3 March 2011 local by-election for the Walkden North ward of Salford City Council. Its candidate, Laurence Depares, polled 125 votes (7%) and came third, ahead of the British National Party and Liberal Democrats; in a by-election in the same city's Swinton South ward on 7 January 2014 the party was fifth with 54 votes (3.7%).\n\nIn 2012, the party fielded 101 candidates in the local elections in England, including district council elections, mayoral contests and elections to the Greater London Assembly. None was elected, and the party suffered the loss of the two seats it was defending, one that it had gained from a former BNP member who had defected to the party and another from an ex-Tory. The English Democrats has come under fire from the anti-fascist groups Unite Against Fascism and Hope not Hate and from the trades unions NASUWT and Unite the Union over the number of former BNP members standing for election for the party. 43% of English Democrats candidates in the 2012 local elections were former BNP members.\n\nThe EDP contested the mayoral elections in Liverpool and Salford. In Liverpool, its candidate received 1.42% of the vote, finishing in ninth place, and in Salford 3.6% finishing in eighth place. The party chairman, Robin Tilbrook, declared that he was standing for Mayor of London and even asked for donations through one of the party's websites but his name did not appear on the ballot paper.\n\nIn 2007, in line with the English Democrats stance on the status of Monmouthshire, 13 English Democrat candidates contested the Welsh Assembly elections in the South East Wales region, and the constituencies of Monmouth (fifth with 2.7%), Newport East (sixth, 2.2%) and Newport West (fifth, 2.7%). The party also received 0.9% of the vote on the regional list.\n\nIn the 2011 Welsh Assembly election, the party fielded the Kent-based Steve Uncles as its candidate in Monmouth, in line with its view that Monmouthshire should be returned to English governance (Monmouthshire has been considered Welsh since at least 1974, after its status as part of England or Wales had been ambiguous after 1542). He polled 744 (2.47%) of the votes cast. The incumbent Conservative assembly member was returned.\n\nThe party contested the 2016 Welsh Assembly election in Monmouth. Its candidate, Stephen Morris, received 146 votes, 0.5% of the votes cast.\n\nIn July 2007, Garry Bushell was nominated as the English Democrats' Mayoral candidate for the 2008 London mayoral and Assembly elections with the campaign slogan \"Serious About London\". In January 2008, he stepped down as candidate because of work commitments and Matt O'Connor, the founder of Fathers 4 Justice, was selected by the English Democrats in his place with his campaign expected to start on 14 February. His campaign web site was launched on 31 January 2008. A party political broadcast for O'Connor's campaign was broadcast on 11 April.\n\nOne week before the election, on 25 April, O'Connor told Vanessa Feltz and the BBC that he was dropping out of the Mayoral race, giving as his reasons the lack of support within the English Democrats on St George's Day and a lack of press coverage as well as the party's co-operation with the far-right group England First. The English Democrats released a press statement on their website in response to his resignation voicing disappointment at his decision to quit the contest. O'Connor received 10,695 first preference votes (representing 0.44% of the votes cast) in the mayoral contest, ranking ninth out of ten candidates; he received 73,538 second preference votes (3.67%), ranking eighth.\n\nIn December 2015, Winston McKenzie announced that he had joined the English Democrats, along with confirmation that he had been selected as a London Mayoral Candidate for the 2016 London Elections. His nomination was deemed invalid and he did not contest the mayoral election.\n\nEnglish Democrats contested five of the 41 Police and Crime Commissioner elections in November 2012. Results were:\nDavid Allen also contested the South Yorkshire Police and Crime Commissioner by-election in October 2014.\nIn November 2005, Paul Adams became the first elected English Democrats councillor at parish level for Crowborough Town Council in East Sussex, polling 120 votes of 211 cast; he was returned in 2007 in an uncontested election. In 2011, he was elected as an independent, so the English Democrats lost the seat. Later that year, Markyate Parish councillor Simon Deacon defected from the British National Party, to the English Democrats, having been elected unopposed. However, he resigned in October 2012. The English Democrats gained another parish council seat when Mick Glynn was elected for the Dunsville ward of Hatfield Town Council, Doncaster. Following the resignation of Peter Davies, Glynn resigned his seat and membership of the party in February 2013.\n\nThe party had two district councillors elected (the first above parish level) in the 2011 local elections and obtained a further county council seat through the defection of a BNP, later \"Independent Nationalist\", councillor in Hertfordshire. However, the county councillor did not defend the seat in the May 2013 election, nor did the EDP put forward another candidate, losing them the seat.\nThe EDP lost one of its district councillors, Elliott Fountain, on 25 July 2013 after he failed to attend any meetings in six months. Following the 2015 local elections, the English Democrats have no representation on any local authorities.\n\nThe English Democrat leader frequently changes the parties constitutional offering. Since 2016 they propose creating a unified, devolved English Parliament, within a federal UK, not an independent sovereign state. An English Executive and First Minister with the same powers as Scottish ones, and a reformed Second Chamber at Westminster. It proposes fiscal devolution so that the English, Scottish, Welsh and N. Irish parliaments become responsible for financing their own expenditure.\n\nIn 2006, the party rejected suggestions that non-English MPs in the House of Commons should be barred from voting on England-specific matters, on the basis that this would lead to there being, in effect, two parliaments in the same building and that this would be problematic.\n\nFrom March 2014 to the 2015 general election, the party chairman Robin Tilbrook had suggested England should become an independent country. Temporarily rekindling its roots, his 2015 general election campaign launch was moved on from Traitors Gate (Tower of London), to the nearby Hung, Drawn and Quartered pub. Tilbrook accused various political parties of being traitors to the English (Labour, the Scottish National Party, Plaid Cymru and Sinn Fein), and the United Kingdom Independence Party \"have no interest in England whatsoever\". He said the party was \"consolidating our position as the English nationalist party\".\n\nThe party favours deciding England's future relationship with the European Union by a nationwide multiple-choice referendum, which would include the option to withdraw from it entirely. The English Democrats are committed to campaign on the \"withdrawal\" side of any referendum.\n\nThe party is supportive of historic counties. It has called for a referendum on whether Monmouthshire should be part of England rather than Wales.\n\nIt contested the constituency of Monmouth in the 2015 general election, receiving 100 votes (0.2% of votes cast).\n\nOn 17 November 2011, the chairman of the English Democrats, Robin Tilbrook, met Sergey Yerzunov, a member of the executive committee of the Russian right-wing group Russky Obraz. Shortly afterwards, Obraz announced that they were in alliance with the English Democrats. Other members of this alliance include Serbian Obraz, 1389 Movement, Golden Dawn, Danes' Party, Slovenska Pospolitost, Workers' Party and Noua Dreaptă.\n\nSince 2010, a number of former members of the BNP have joined the project, with the party chairman quoted as saying, \"They will help us become an electorally credible party.\" In an April 2013 interview, Tilbrook said that about 200-300 out of the party's membership of 3,000 were former BNP members. He said it was \"perfectly fair\" that such people would \"change their minds\" and join a \"moderate, sensible English nationalist party\".\n\n\nThe New England Party was a local party in Dartford from March 2003 to February 2007, when it merged with the English Democrats. Its leader, nominating officer and treasurer was Michael Tibby while Sheila Tibby was its campaigns officer.\n\nMichael Tibby and Austen Brooker were councillors on Dartford Borough Council between 2003 and 2007, representing Littlebrook and Newtown. Tibby came second in Littlebrook in the 2003 local elections, while Brooker was elected as one of three Labour councillors for Newtown, but left Labour soon after his election in May 2003, initially as an independent. Brooker stood down at the 2007 local elections and Tibby was unsuccessful in seeking re-election for the English Democrats, coming third.\n\nMichael Tibby contested Dartford at the 2005 general election, receiving 1,224 votes (the elected Labour MP, Howard Stoate, received 19,909 votes). The party contested the Dartford Borough Council Heath ward by-election on 27 July 2006, polling 174 votes (9.6%). The candidate was Steven Uncles, who had been the English Democrats candidate in the 2006 Bromley and Chislehurst by-election.\n\nThe New England Party merged with the English Democrats in February 2007.\n\nReform UK was a small UKIP splinter group of those opposing Nigel Farage, led by Harold Green from 2000 to 2004, when it merged with the English Democrats. Green received 357 votes (0.9%) in Reigate in the 2001 general election standing for Reform UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20489537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20489537", "title": "Global Network Initiative", "text": "Global Network Initiative\n\nThe Global Network Initiative (GNI) is a non-governmental organization with the dual goals of preventing Internet censorship by authoritarian governments and protecting the Internet privacy rights of individuals. It is sponsored by a coalition of multinational corporations, non-profit organizations, and universities.\n\nOn October 29, 2008, the Global Network Initiative (GNI) was founded upon its \"Principles of Freedom of Expression and Privacy\". The Initiative was launched in the 60th anniversary year of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), and is based on internationally recognized laws and standards for human rights on freedom of expression and privacy set out in the UDHR, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR).\n\nAs a human rights organization, GNI seeks to safeguard freedom of expression and personal privacy against government restrictions. The protections are facilitated by a coalition of companies, investors, civil society organizations, academics, and other stakeholders.\n\nGNI esteems freedom of expression and privacy each as a \"human right and guarantor of human dignity\". Participants are expected to respect and protect information available to users and users' ability to freely create and distribute information, provided that they operate outside narrowly defined circumstances necessary to adhere to international laws and standards set by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR).\n\nParticipants are also expected to protect users' personal information from illegal or arbitrary interference when confronted with government demands, laws, or regulations that compromise a user's privacy. The same principle of adherence of international laws and standards applies.\n\nCollaboration among stakeholders is key to the goals of the Global Network Initiative. The GNI's outline of principles encourages participants to explore ways to engage governments advance their cause, individually or collectively.\n\nGNI recognizes that the actions of their corporate participants alone cannot guarantee the protection of human rights. One fundamental commitment is to promote the adoption of laws, policies, and practices that protect freedom of expression and privacy. GNI considers governments to be ultimately responsible for the fulfillment of their citizens' human rights, specifically pursuant to freedom of expression and privacy.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Global Network Initiative requires participating companies to integrate their principles deeply into their decision-making and culture. GNI's founding companies include Google, Yahoo (now Oath Inc.), and Microsoft. Facebook joined GNI in 2013. In 2017, seven telecommunications operator and vendor companies joined GNI.\n\n"}
{"id": "46637932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46637932", "title": "Government mouthpiece", "text": "Government mouthpiece\n\nA government mouthpiece is a pejorative term for media outlets which are widely viewed as being an accessory to an oppressive government as well as its propaganda. Such media networks are typically criticized for taking government statements at face value without challenging their positions. Critics of such networks may criticize such networks as being a mimicker or parrot of whatever the government may say. Such lack of media independence is subsequently said to result in media that is biased, and hence cannot be trusted.\n\n"}
{"id": "47779300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47779300", "title": "Hazard analysis and risk-based preventive controls", "text": "Hazard analysis and risk-based preventive controls\n\nHazard analysis and risk-based preventive controls or HARPC is a successor to the Hazard analysis and critical control points (HACCP) food safety system. It is mandated by the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA) of 2010. As the name implies, Preventive Controls systems emphasize prevention of hazards before they occur rather than their detection after they occur. The FDA is releasing the rules in the Federal Registry beginning in September 2015. The first release of rules addressed Preventive Controls for Human Food and Preventive Controls for Foods for Animals. The Produce Safety Final Rule, the Foreign Supplier Verification Programs (FSVP) Final Rule and the Accredited Third-Party Certification Final Rule were issued on November 13, 2015. The Sanitary Transportation of Human and Animal Food final rule was issued on April 6, 2016, and the Mitigation Strategies To Protect Food Against Intentional Adulteration (Food Defense) final rule was issued on May 27, 2016.\nAll food companies in the United States that are required to register with the FDA under the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, as well as firms outside the US that export food to the US, must have a written FSMA-compliant Food Safety Plan in place by the deadlines listed below:\n\n\nAdditionally, for the first time food safety is being extended to pet food and animal feed, with firms being given an extra year to implement Current Good Manufacturing Practices before a Preventive Controls system the following year:\n\nThe FDA estimates that 73,000 businesses currently fall under these definitions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1183269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1183269", "title": "History of Rome (Mommsen)", "text": "History of Rome (Mommsen)\n\nThe History of Rome () is a multi-volume history of ancient Rome written by Theodor Mommsen (1817–1903). Originally published by Reimer & Hirsel, Leipzig, as three volumes during 1854–1856, the work dealt with the Roman Republic. A subsequent book was issued which concerned the provinces of the Roman Empire. Recently published was a further book on the Empire, reconstructed from lecture notes. The initial three volumes won widespread acclaim upon publication; indeed, \"The \"Roman History\" made Mommsen famous in a day.\" Still read and qualifiedly cited, it is the prolific Mommsen's most well-known work. The work was specifically cited when Mommsen was awarded the Nobel Prize.\n\nWriting the \"History\" followed Mommsen's earlier achievements in the study of ancient Rome. He had not himself designed to write a history, but the opportunity presented itself in 1850 while at the University of Leipzig where Mommsen was a thirty-two-year-old special Professor of Law. \"Invited to give a public lecture while at Leipzig, I delivered an address on the Gracchi. Reimer and Hirzel, the publishers, were present, and two days later they asked me to write a Roman History for their series.\" Having been dismissed from the University for revolutionary activities, Mommsen would accept the publishing proposal \"partly for my livelihood, and partly because the work greatly appeals to me.\"\n\nThe publishers specified that the work focus on events and circumstances, and avoid discussing the scholarly process. While they certainly wanted a well-respected academic work to fit their acclaimed series on history, Karl Reimer and Solomon Hirzel were also seeking one with literary merit that would be accessible and appeal to the educated public. As a scholar Mommsen was an active party in recent advances made in ancient Roman studies. Yet Mommsen also had some experience as a journalist. He might well manage to become a popular academic author. \"It is high time for such a work\", Mommsen wrote to an associate in Roman studies, \"it is more than ever necessary to present to a wider audience the results of our researches.\"\n\nOriginally the \"History\" was conceived as a five volume work, spanning Roman history from its inception to the emperor Diocletian (284–305). The first three volumes, which covered the origin of Rome through the fall of the Republic, ending with the reforms of Julius Caesar, were published in 1854, 1855, and 1856, as the \"Römische Geschichte\".\n\nThese three volumes did indeed become popular, very popular. \"Their success was immediate.\" Here \"a professional scholar\" presented his readers with a prose that was of \"such vigor and life, such grasp of detail combined with such vision, such self-confident mastery of a vast field of learning.\" Especially in Mommsen's third volume, as the narrative told of how the political crisis in the Roman Republic came to its final climax, \"he wrote with a fire of imagination and emotion almost unknown in a professional history. Here was scientific learning with the stylistic vigor of a novel.\"\n\nThese first three volumes of the \"Römische Geschichte\" retained their popularity in Germany, with eight editions being published in Mommsen's lifetime. Following his death in 1903, an additional eight German editions have issued.\n\nA planned fourth volume covering Roman history under the Empire was delayed pending Mommsen's completion of a then 15-volume work on Roman inscriptions, which required his services as researcher, writer, and editor, occupying Mommsen for many years. After repeated delays the projected fourth volume was eventually abandoned, or at least not completed; an early manuscript may have been lost in a fire.\n\nIn 1885, however, Mommsen had ready another work on ancient Rome, later translated into English as \"The Provinces of the Roman Empire\". In Germany it was published as the fifth volume of his \"Römische Geschichte\". In thirteen chapters it describes the different imperial provinces, each as a stand-alone subject. Here there was no running narration of major Roman political events, often dramatic, as was the case in Mommsen's popular chronological telling of his earlier volumes.\n\nIn 1992, a reconstruction of Mommsen's missing \"fourth volume\" on the Empire was issued. Its sources were lesson notes taken by two related students, Sebastian Hensel (father) and Paul Hensel (son), of lectures delivered by Prof. Mommsen during 1882–1886 regarding his courses on imperial Roman History, given at the University of Berlin. These student notes were 'discovered' in 1980 at a used bookshop in Nuremberg by Alexander Demandt, then edited by Barbara Demandt and Alexander Demandt; the resulting German text was published in 1992.\n\nThe contemporary English translations were the work of William Purdie Dickson, then the Professor of Divinity at the University of Glasgow. The first three German volumes (which contained five 'books') were published during 1862 to 1866 by R. Bentley & Son, London. Over several decades Prof. Dickson prepared further English editions of this translation, keeping pace with Mommsen's revisions in German. All told, close to a hundred editions and reprints of the English translation have been published.\n\nIn 1958 selections from the final two 'books' of the three-volume \"History\" were prepared by Dero A. Saunders and John H. Collins for a shorter English version. The content was chosen to highlight Mommsen's telling of the social-political struggles over several generations leading to the fall of the Republic. Provided with new annotations and a revised translation, the book presents an abridgment revealing the historical chronology. With rigor Mommsen is shown narrating the grave political drama and illuminating its implications; the book closes with his lengthy description of the new order of government adumbrated by Julius Caesar.\n\nWith regard to Mommsen's 1885 \"fifth volume\" on the Roman provinces, Prof. Dr. Dickson immediate began to supervise its translation. In 1886 it appeared as \"The Provinces of the Roman Empire. From Caesar to Diocletian\".\n\nMommsen's missing fourth volume was reconstructed from student notes and published in 1992 under the title \"Römische Kaisergeschichte\". It was soon translated into English by Clare Krojzl as \"A History of Rome under the Emperors\".\n\nWith exceptions, Mommsen in his \"Römische Geschichte\" (1854–1856) narrates a straight chronology of historic events and circumstances. Often strongly worded, he carefully describes the political acts taken by the protagonists, demonstrates the immediate results, draws implications for the future, while shedding light on the evolving society that surround them. The chronology of the contents of his five 'books' (in his first three volumes) are in brief:\n\n\nThe broad strokes of Mommsen's long, sometimes intense narrative of the Roman Republic were summarized at the 1902 award of the Nobel Prize in a speech given by the secretary of the Swedish Academy. At the beginning, the strength of Rome derived from the health of its families, e.g., a Roman's obedience to the state was associated with obedience of son to father. From here Mommsen skillfully unrolls the huge canvas of Rome's long development from rural town to world capital. An early source of stability and effectiveness was the stubbornly preserved constitution; e.g., the reformed Senate composed of patricians and plebeians generally handled public affairs of the city-state in an honorable manner.\n\nYet the great expansion of Rome and the consequent transformations worked to subvert the ancient order. Gradually, older institutions grew incapable of effectively meeting new and challenging circumstances, of performing the required civic tasks. The purported sovereignty of the comitia (people's assembly) became only a fiction, which might be exploited by demagogues for their own purposes. In the Senate, the old aristocratic oligarchy began to become corrupted by the enormous wealth derived from military conquest and its aftermath; it no longer served well its functional purpose, it failed to meet new demands placed on Rome, and its members would selfishly seek to preserve inherited prerogatives against legitimate challenge and transition. A frequently unpatriotic capitalism abused its power in politics and by irresponsible speculation. The free peasantry became squeezed by the competing demands of powerful interests; accordingly its numbers began to dwindle, which eventually led to a restructuring of Army recruitment, and later resulted in disastrous consequences for the entire commonwealth.\n\nMoreover, the annual change of consuls (the two Roman chief executives) began to adversely impact the consistent management of its armed forces, and to weaken their effectiveness, especially in the era following the Punic Wars. Eventually it led to the prolongation of military commands in the field; hence, Roman army generals became increasingly independent, and they led soldiers personally loyal to them. These military leaders began to acquire the ability to rule better than the ineffective civil institutions. In short, the civil power's political capabilities were not commensurate with the actual needs of the Roman state. As Rome's strength and reach increased, the political situation developed in which an absolute command structure imposed by military leaders at the top might, in the long run, in many cases be more successful and cause less chaos and hardship to the citizenry than the corrupt and incompetent rule by the oligarchy of quarreling old families who \"de facto\" controlled the government. Such was his purpose when the conservative Optimate, the noble and Roman general Sulla (138–78), seized state power by military force; yet he sought without permanent success to restore the Senate nobility to its former power.\n\nPolitical instability soon returned, social unrest being the disagreeable norm. The conservative renovation of the Republic's institutions was abandoned and taken apart. Eventually the decisive civil war victory of the incomparable Julius Caesar (100–44), followed by his executive mastery and public-minded reforms, appeared as the necessary and welcome step forward toward resolution of the sorry and bloody débâcle at Rome. This, in the dramatic narrative of Theodore Mommsen.\n\nMommsen's penultimate chapter provides an outline of the 'nation building' program begun by Caesar following his victory. Institutions were reformed, the many regions ruled by Rome became more unified in design, as if prepared for a future Empire which would endure for centuries; this, during Caesar's last five and a half years alive. His work at statecraft included the following: the slow pacification of party strife, nonetheless with republican opposition latent and episodically expressed; his assumption of the title Imperator (refusing the crown, yet continuing since 49 as dictator), with reversion of the Senate to an advisory council, and the popular comitia as a compliant legislature, although law might be made by his edicts alone; his assumption of authority over tax and treasury, over provincial governors, and over the capital; supreme jurisdiction (trial and appellate) over the continuing republican legal system, with the judex being selected among senators or equites, yet criminal courts remained corrupted by factional infighting; supreme command over the decayed Roman army, which was reorganized and which remained under civilian control; reform of government finance, of budgeting re income and expense, and of corn distribution; cultivation of civil peace in Rome by control of criminal \"clubs\", by new city police, and by public building projects. Impossible problems: widespread slavery, disappearance of family farms, extravagance and immorality of the wealthy, dire poverty, speculation, debt; Caesar's reforms: favoring families, against absentees, restricting luxuries, debt relief (but not cancellation as demanded by \"populares\"), personal bankruptcy for unpayable debt replacing enslavement by creditors, usury laws, road building, distribution of public agricultural lands in a moderated Gracchan fashion, and new municipal law. Mommsen writes, \"[W]e may well conclude that Caesar with his reforms came as near to the measure of what was possible as it was given to a statesman and a Roman to come.\"\n\nRegarding the Roman provinces, former misrule and financial plundering is described, committed by Roman government agents and Roman merchants; Caesar's reforms replaced the quasi-independent Roman governors with those selected by the Imperator and closely supervised, with reduction in taxes; provincial oppression by private concerns was found more difficult to arrest. Abatement of the prior popular notion of the provinces as \"country estates\" to be worked or exploited for Rome's benefit. Favors granted Jews; Latin colonies continue. Cultural joining of Latins and Hellenes; \"Italy was converted from the mistress of subject peoples into the mother of the renovated Italo-Hellenic nation.\" Census of the Mediterranean population under Rome taken; popular religion left free of additional state norms. Continuing development of the Praetor's Edict, and plans for a codification of law. Roman coinage, weights and measures reformed; creation of the Julian Calendar. \"The rapidity and self-precision with which the plan was executed prove that it had been long meditated thoroughly and all its parts settled in detail\", Mommsen comments. \"[T]his was probably the meaning of the words which were heard to fall from him—that he had 'lived enough'.\"\n\nThe exceptions to the straightforward chronology are the periodic digressions in his narrative, where Mommsen inserts separate chapters, each devoted to one or more of a range of particular subjects, for example:\n\n\n\nMommsen's expertise in Roman studies was acknowledged by his peers as being both wide and deep, e.g., his direction of the ancient Latin inscriptions project, his work on ancient dialects of Italy, the journal he began devoted to Roman coinage, his multivolume \"Staatsrecht\" on the long history of constitutional law at Rome, his volumes on Roman criminal law, the \"Strafrecht\". His bibliography lists 1500 works.\n\nThe \"Provinces of the Roman Empire\" (1885, 1886) contains thirteen chapters, namely: Northern Italy, Spain, Gaul, Germany, Britain, the Danube, Greece, Asia Minor, the Euphrates and Parthia, Syria and the Nabataeans, Judaea, Egypt, and the Africa provinces. Generally, each chapter describes the economic geography of a region and its people, before addressing its Imperial regime. Regarding the North, military administration is often stressed; while for the East, the culture and history.\n\nA quarter of the way into his short \"Introduction\" to the \"Provinces\" Mommsen comments on the decline of Rome, the capital city: \"The Roman state of this epoch resembles a mighty tree, the main stem of which, in the course of its decay, is surrounded by vigorous offshoots pushing their way upward.\" These shoots being the provinces he here describes.\n\nMommsen's missing fourth volume, as reconstructed by Barbara Demandt and Alexander Demandt from lecture notes, was published as \"Römische Kaisergeschichte\" in 1992. Thus appearing many years after third volume (1856), and the fifth (1885). It contains three sections of roughly equal size.\n\nThe first section is arranged chronologically by emperor: Augustus (44 BC-AD 14); Tiberius (14–37); Gaius Caligula (37–41); Claudius (41–54); Nero (54–68); The Year of Four Emperors (68–69); Vespasian (69–79).\n\nThe chapters of the second section are entitled: General Introduction; Domestic Politics I; Wars in the West; Wars on the Danube; Wars in the East; Domestic Politics II.\n\nThe third section: General Introduction; Government and Society; A History of Events [\"this the longest subsection, arranged by emperors\"]: Diocletian (284–305); Constantine (306–337); The sons of Constantine (337–361); Julian and Jovian (355–364); Valentinian and Valens (364–378); From Theodosius to Alaric (379–410).\n\nThis rescued work contains a great wealth of material, in which one follows in the footsteps of a master historian. Yet, perhaps because of its nature as reconstructed student lecture notes, it more often lacks the fine points of literary composition and style, and of course the narrative drive of the original three volumes. Nonetheless it is well to remember that the students involved here in taking the lecture notes were themselves quite accomplished people, and one listener and recorder was already a mature father.\n\nSeveral writers have remarked on Mommsen's ability to interpret personality and character. The following highlights are drawn from Mommsen's renderings of figures of ancient Rome, namely: Hannibal, Scipio Africanus, the Gracchi brothers, Marius, Drusus, Sulla, Pompey, Cato, Caesar, and Cicero.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWriters have described Mommsen's history as transformative of prior works on ancient Rome. He employed new sources, e.g., ancient inscriptions, in order to gain new insights. He also wrote in a new fashion. Yet his point of view itself was new, a product of his own life and times, a 19th-century outlook from middle Europe. From the vantage point of our latter era, the 19th-century view presents a result that appears now as somewhat of a distortion. On the other hand, each individual's outlook will necessarily encompass unique insights.\n\nMommsen followed by a generation the historian Barthold Niebuhr, who had made significant advances in Roman studies. Niebuhr elevated the standards of scholarship and, in doing so, brought to light the lack of rigor of earlier work. He insisted on investigating the original sources. By his perceptive questioning, he challenged the surviving Latin and Greek historical literature, especially regarding earliest Rome. Niebuhr sifted it carefully in order to separate out what genuinely reflected the actual events: stories sourced in persons with personal knowledge, as opposed to inventions created apart from the event and containing suspect information, e.g., legend or folktales thoroughly scrambled with myth and fiction. He relied in part on the emerging field of source criticism to shed new light on the old writings. Niebuhr's \"Roman History\" was highly praised.\n\nYet Mommsen outdid Niebuhr. Mommsen sought to create a new category of material evidence on which to build an account of Roman history, i.e., in addition to the literature and art. Of chief importance were the many surviving Latin inscriptions, often on stone or metal. Also included were the Roman ruins, and the various Roman artefacts ranging from pottery and textiles, to tools and weapons. Mommsen encouraged the systematic investigation of these new sources, combined with on-going developments in philology and legal history. Much on-going work was furthering this program: inscriptions were being gathered and authenticated, site work performed at the ruins, and technical examination make of the objects. From a coordinated synthesis of these miscellaneous studies, historical models might be constructed. Such modeling would provide historians with an objective framework independent of the ancient texts, by which to determine their reliability. Information found in the surviving literature then could be for the first time properly scrutinized for its truth value and accordingly appraised.\n\n\"[T]hrough comparative linguistics, numismatics, and epigraphy, Mommsen was trying to create a body of material which had the status of archival evidence and which would serve as a control on the narratives of historical writers such as Livy and Appian. Their narratives had already been subjected to scrutiny by earlier scholars, of whom the most significant was Barthold Georg Niebuhr (1776–1831). ... Niebuhr's method had been to apply the principles of \"Source Criticism\" to unravel contradictions in the traditional account, and then to explain them by applying models developed in the light of his own experience, e.g., of conscription in a peasant society. Mommsen's work sought to establish entirely new categories of evidence for the use of the historian.\"\n\nThe Mommsen's work won immediate, widespread acclaim, but the praise it drew was not unanimous. \"While the public welcomed the book with delight and scholars testified to its impeccable erudition, some specialists were annoyed at finding old hypotheses rejected... .\" Mommsen omits much of the foundation legends and other tales of early Rome, because he could find no independent evidence to verify them. He thus ignored a scholarly field that was seeking a harmonized view using merely ancient writers. Instead Mommsen's \"Römische Geschichte\" presented only events from surviving literature that could be somehow checked against other knownledge gained elsewhere, e.g., from inscriptions, philology, or archaeology.\n\n\"[The book] astonished and shocked professional scholars by its revolutionary treatment of the misty beginnings of Rome, sweeping away the old legends of the kings and heroes and along with them the elaborate critical structure deduced from those tales by Barthold Niebuhr, whose reputation as the grand master of Roman history was then sacrosanct. It replaced the critical work of Niebuhr with a far more penetrating criticism and a profounder body of inference.\"\n\nWork continues, of course, in the trans-generational endeavor of moderns to understand what can legitimately be understood from what is left of the ancient world, including the works of the ancient historians. To be self-aware of how the approach ancient evidence, of course, is included in the challenge.\n\nThere were academics who disapproved of its tone. \"It was indeed the work of a politician and journalist as well as of a scholar.\" Before writing the \"History\", Mommsen had participated in events during the unrest of 1848 in Germany, a year of European-wide revolts; he had worked editing a periodical which involved politics. Later Mommsen became a member of the Prussian legislature and eventually of the Reichstag. Mommsen's transparent comparison of ancient to modern politics is said to distort, his terse style to be journalistic, i.e., not up to the standard to be achieved by the professional academic.\n\nAbout his modernist tone, Mommsen wrote: \"I wanted to bring down the ancients from the fantastic pedestal on which they appear into the real world. That is why the consul had to become the burgomaster.\" As to his partisanship, Mommsen replied: \"Those who have lived through historical events... see that history is neither written nor made without love and hate.\" To the challenge that he favored the political career of Julius Caesar, Mommsen referred to the corruption and dysfunction of the tottering Republic: \"When a Government cannot govern, it ceases to be legitimate, and he who has the power to overthrow it has also the right.\" He further clarified, stating the Caesar's role must be considered as the lesser of two evils. As an organism is better than a machine \"so is every imperfect constitution which gives room for the free self-determination of a majority of citizens infinitely [better] than the most humane and wonderful absolutism; for one is living, and the other is dead.\" Thus, the Empire would only hold together a tree without sap.\n\n\"In only one important aspect\", Saunders and Collins hold, \"did Mommsen fall into serious error.\" They note that 'most' scholars have faulted Mommsen for his depiction of the Roman party system during the late Republic. They readily admit that the Senate was dominated by a hardcore of 'aristocrats' or the 'oligarchy', who also nearly monopolized the chief offices of government, e.g., consul, by means of family connection, marriage alliance, wealth, or corruption. Such \"men may be said to have formed a 'party' in the sense that they had at least a common outlook—stubborn conservatism.\" They contended vainly among themselves for state 'honors' and personal greed, \"forming cliques and intrigues in what amounted to a private game\". Such Senate 'misrule' subverted Rome, causing prolonged wrongs and injustice that \"aroused sporadic and sometimes massive and desperate opposition. But the opposition was never organized into a party. ... [T]here was no clear political tradition running from the Gracchi through Marius to Caesar.\" \n\nThe classicist Lily Ross Taylor addresses this issue, as follows. Cicero, to refer to these two rival political groups, continually used the Latin word \"partes\" [English \"parties\"]. Cicero (106–43) was a key figure in Roman politics who wrote volumes about it. In distinguishing the two groups, he employed the Latin terms \"optimates\" for proponents of the Senate nobility and \"populares\" for elite proponents of the popular demos or commoners. She points to the Roman historians Sallust (86–34) and Livy (59 BC-AD 17) for partial confirmation, as well as to later writers Plutarch (c.46–120), Appian (c.95-c.165), and Dio (c.155-c.235), and later still Machiavelli (1469–1527).\n\nThese rival political groups, Prof. Taylor states, were quite amorphous, as Mommsen well knew. In fact when Mommsen wrote his \"Romische Geschichte\" (1854–1856) political parties in Europe and America were also generally amorphous, being comparatively unorganized and unfocused, absent member alligiance and often lacking programs. Yet in the 20th century modern parties grew better organized with enduring policies, so that their comparison with ancient Rome has become more and more tenuous. She describes Mommsen:\n\n\"Theodor Mommsen... presented party politics of the late [Roman] republic in terms of the strife of his own day between liberalism and the reaction that won the battle in 1848. Mommsen identified the Roman \"optimates\" with the hated Prussian Junkers and aligned himself with Caesar against them. But he fully recognized the lack of principle or program among the \"populares\". He well understood the amorphous character of the Roman 'parties'. The parties that he knew in Prussia and in other German states were almost equally amorphous.\"\n\nAs Prof. Taylor continues, since Mommsen's wrote modern party 'tickets' and party 'lines' have grown more disciplined, and \"the meaning of party had undergone a radical change. Thus the terms 'optimate' and 'popular' party are misleading to the modern reader. [¶] Lately there has been protest against the attribution of parties to Rome. The protest has gone too far.\" That is, the above-stated divisions were strong and constellated politics during the last century of the Roman Republic.\n\nIn 1961 the British historian Edward Hallett Carr published his \"What is History?\", which became well known. Therein Carr conjectured that the very nature of writing history will cause historians as a whole to reveal themselves to their readers as 'prisoners' subject to the context of their own age and culture. As a consequence, one may add, every generation feels the need to rewrite history so that it better fits their own situation, their point of view. To illustrate his point here, Carr selected as exemplars a number of well-regarded historians, among them being Theodore Mommsen.\n\nAccordingly, Carr informs us that Mommsen's multivolume work \"Römische Geschichte\" (Leipzig 1854–1856) may tell the perceptive modern historian much about mid-19th-century Germany, while it is presenting an account of ancient Rome. A major recent event in Germany was the failure of the 1848–1849 Revolution, while in Mommsen's \"Roman History\" his narration of the Republic draws to a close with the revolutionary emergence of a strong state executive in the figure of Julius Caesar. Carr conjectures as follows.\n\n\"Mommsen was imbued with the sense of need for a strong man to clean up the mess left by the failure of the German people to realize its political aspirations; and we shall never appreciate its history at its true value until we realize that his well-known idealization of Caesar is the product of this yearning for the strong man to save Germany from ruin, and that the lawyer-politician Cicero, that ineffective chatterbox and slippery procrastinator, has walked straight out of the debates of the Paulikirche in Frankfurt in 1848.\"\n\nFar from protesting or denying such an observation, Mommsen himself readily admitted it. He added, \"I wanted to bring down the ancient from their fantastic pedestal on which they appear in the real world. That is why the consul had to become the burgomaster. Perhaps I have overdone it; but my intention was sound enough.\"\n\nAlongside Carr on Mommsen, Carr likewise approaches George Grote's \"History of Greece\" (1846–1856) and states that it must also reveal that period's England as well as ancient Greece. Thus about Grote's book Carr conjectures.\n\n\"Grote, an enlightened radical banker writing in the 1840s, embodied the aspirations of the rising and politically progressive British middle class in an idealized picture of Athenian democracy, in which Pericles figured as a Benthamite reformer, and Athens acquired an empire in a fit of absence of mind. It may not be fanciful to suggest that Grote's neglect of the problem of slavery in Athens reflected the failure of the group in which he belonged to face the problem of the new English factory working class.\n\n\"I should not think it an outrageous paradox\", writes Carr, \"if someone were to say that Grote's \"History of Greece\" has quite as much to tell us about the thought of the English philosophical radicals in the 1840s as about Athenian democracy in the fifth century B.C.\" Prof. Carr credits the philosopher R. G. Collingwood as being his inspiration for this line of thinking.\n\nRobin Collingwood, an early 20th-century Oxford professor, worked at building a philosophy of history, wherein history would remain a sovereign discipline. In pursuing this project he studied extensively the Italian philosopher and historian Benedetto Croce (1866–1952). Collingwood wrote on Croce, here in his 1921 essay.\n\n\"Croce shows how Herodotus, Livy, Tacitus, Grote, Mommsen, Thierry, and so forth, all wrote from a subjective point of view, wrote so that their personal ideals and feelings coloured their whole work and in parts falsified it. Now, if this is so, who wrote real history, history not coloured by points of view and ideals? Clearly no one. ... History, to be, must be seen, and must be seen by somebody, from somebody's point of view. ... But this is not an accusation against any particular school of historians; it is a law of our nature.\"\n\nIn summary, Edward Carr here presents his interesting developments regarding the theories proposed by Benedetto Croce and later taken up by Robin Collingwood. In doing so Carr does not allege mistaken views or fault specific to Mommsen, or to any of the other historians he mentions. Rather any such errors and faults would be general to all history writing. As Collingwood states, \"The only safe way of avoiding error is to give up looking for the truth.\" Nonetheless, this line of thought, and these examples and illustrations of how Mommsen's Germany might color his history of ancient Rome, are illuminating concerning both the process and the result.\n\nThe figure of Julius Caesar (100–44) remains controversial among historians and students of ancient Rome. Mommsen saw in him a leader with a special gift for organizing and transforming the city-state, which had come to rule the Mediterranean world. Caesar was opposed by an oligarchy of aristocratic families, the \"optimates\", who dominated the Senate and nearly monopolized state offices, who profited by the city's corruption and exploited the foreign conquests. They blocked the change necessitated by the times, stifling or coopting, at times by violence, any who advanced progressive programs. Although the state was dangerously unsteady, and the city often rent by armed mobs, the \"optimates\" rested on their heritage of the Roman tradition.\n\nCaesar sprang from the heart of this old nobility, yet he was born into a family which had already allied itself with the \"populares\", i.e., those who favored constitutional change. Hence Caesar's career was associated with the struggle for a new order and, failing opportunity along peaceful avenues, he emerged as a military leader whose triumph at arms worked to advance political change. Yet both parties in this long struggle had checkered histories of violence and corruption. Mommsen, too, recognized and reported \"Caesar the rake, Caesar the conspirator, and Caesar the groundbreaker for later centuries of absolutism.\"\n\nSome moderns follow the \"optimate\" view that it was a nefarious role that Caesar played in the fall of the Republic, whose ruling array of institutions had not yet outlived their usefulness. To the contrary, the Republic's fall ushered in the oppressive Empire whose 'divine' rulers held absolute power. Julius Caesar as villain was an opinion shared, of course, by his knife-wielding assassins, most of whom were also nobility. Shared also without shame by that epitome of classical Roman politics and letters, Marcus Tullius Cicero (106–43). For some observers, following Caesar's assassination Cicero saved his rather erratic career in politics by his high-profile stand in favor of the Republic. Also strong among Caesar's opponents was Marcus Porcius Cato Uticensis (95–46), who had long led the \"opimates\", supporters of the republican aristocracy, against the \"populares\" and in particular against Julius Caesar. During the Imperial era the stoic Cato became the symbol of lost republican virtue.\n\nNonetheless, even deadly foes could see the bright genius of Caesar; indeed, many conspitators were his beneficiaries. \"Brutus, Cassius and the others who, like Cicero, attached themselves to the conspiracy acted less out of enmity to Caesar than out of a desire to destroy his \"dominatio\".\" Too, the conspiracy failed to restore the Republic. An aristocrat's \"libertas\" meant very little to the population: the people, the armies, or even the equestrians; his assassins \"failed to grasp the real pulse of the \"respublica\".\"\n\nModerns may be able to see both sides of the issue, however, as an historian might. Indeed, there exists a great difference in context between, say, an American, and a German historian of the 1850s, where during 1848 citizens had made a rather spontaneous, incoherent effort to move German politics toward a free and unified country: it was crushed by the nobility.\n\nThe philosopher Robin Collingwood (1889–1943) developed a nuanced view of history in which each person explores \"the past\" in order to create his or her own true understanding of that person's unique \"cultural inheritance\". Although objectivity remains crucial to the process, each will naturally draw out their own inner truth from the universe of human truth. This fits the stark limitations on each individual's ability to know all sides of history. To a mitigated extent these constraints work also on the historian. Collingwood writes:\n\n\"This does not reduce history to something arbitrary or capricious. It remains genuine knowledge. How can this be, if my thoughts about Julius Caesar differ from Mommsen's? Must not one of us be wrong? No, because the object differs. My historical [object] is about my own past, not about Mommsen's past. Mommsen and I share in a great many things, and in many respects we share in a common past; but in so far as we are different people and representatives of different cultures and different generations we have different pasts. ... [O]ur views of Julius Caesar must differ, slightly perhaps, but perceptibly. This difference is not arbitrary, for I can see—or ought to be able to see—that in his place, apart (once more) from all questions of error, I should have come to his conclusions.\"\n\nA modern historian of ancient Rome echoes the rough, current consensus of academics about this great and controversial figure, as he concludes his well-regarded biography of Julius Caesar: \"When they killed him his assassins did not realise that they had eliminated the best and most far-sighted mind of their class.\"\n\nPlacing Mommsen within the galaxy of world historians, subsequent writers have viewed his work from a more technical, professional perspective. The corpus of Mommsen's work may be picked at and poked. Problems and conundrums emerge. How did Mommsen handle recurrent issues of historiography? In addressing the perplexing reality of the ancient past, as a modern scholar to an educated audience, Mommsen was required to negotiate the common difficulties. How did he fare?\n\nMommsen mentioned the future publication of a fourth volume on the Roman Empire. Due to the immense popularity of his first three, there remained for decades substantial interest and expectation concerning the appearance of this fourth volume. Yet it did not appear in Mommsen's lifetime. Consequently, this missing fourth volume has caused numerous scholars to speculate about the reasons 'why not'. Concurrently, such musings served to suggest where Theodore Mommsen was to be situated amid the portrait gallery of historians of the 19th century and the modern era.\n\nAs to the matter of why \"Mommsen failed to continue his history beyond the fall of the republic\", Carr wrote: \"During his active career, the problem of what happened once the strong man had taken over was not yet actual. Nothing inspired Mommsen to project this problem back on to the Roman scene; and the history of the empire remained unwritten.\"\n\nBecause of Mommsen's expert knowledge across many field of study, he \"knows as an eyewitness because... such a perfect comprehension [places him] in the position of a contemporary. [Thus he feels] a certainty he cannot explain, like the judgment of a statesman or a shrewd man of business who forms his opinions by processes he does not attempt to analyse.\"\n\nWhile not following Niebuhr's 'divination', Mommsen's manner goes to question of whether one may use discrete and controlled 'intersticial projection', safeguarded by monitoring the results closely \"after the fact\". Does its use necessarily sacrifice claims to 'objectivity'? Termed intuition based on scholarship, practitioners of such techniques are vulnerable to caustic challenges to the integrity of their science. Acknowledgement of such infirmities may also include an assessment of the skill involved and the quality of the result.\n\nMommsen's work continues to attract a refined and popular readership. In their introduction Saunders and Collins express their admiration for Mommsen and his contribution to the study of ancient Roman history:\n\n\"Theodor Mommsen (1817–1903) was the greatest classical historian of his century or of ours. His only rival in any century was Edward Gibbon, whose monumental History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire complements rather than competes with Mommsen's superb description of the Roman republic.\"\n\nOne encyclopaedic reference summarizes: \"Equally great as antiquary, jurist, political and social historian, Mommsen [had] no rivals. He combined the power of minute investigation with a singular faculty for bold generalization... .\" About the \"History of Rome\" the universal historian Arnold J. Toynbee writes, \"Mommsen wrote a great book, which certainly will always be reckoned among the masterpieces of Western historical literature.\" G. P. Gooch gives us these comments evaluating Mommsen's \"History\": \"Its sureness of touch, its many-sided knowledge, its throbbing vitality and the Venetian colouring of its portraits left an ineffaceable impression on every reader.\" \"It was a work of genius and passion, the creation of a young man, and is as fresh and vital to-day as when it was written.\"\n\nIn 1902 Professor Theodor Mommsen became the second person to be awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature, which had been inaugurated the preceding year. This world recognition was given him with \"special reference\" to the \"Römische Geschichte\" (the \"History of Rome\"). The commendation called him \"the greatest living master of the art of historical writing.\"\n\nThe award came nearly fifty years after the first appearance of the work. The award also came during the last year of the author's life (1817–1903). It is the only time thus far that the Nobel Prize for Literature has been presented to a historian \"per se\". Yet the literary Nobel has since been awarded to a philosopher (1950) with mention of an \"intellectual history\", and to a war-time leader (1953) for speeches and writings, including a \"current events history\", plus a Nobel Memorial Prize has been awarded for two \"economic histories\" (1993). Nonetheless Mommsen's multi-volume \"History of Rome\" remains in a singular Nobel class.\n\nThe 1911 \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", a well-regarded reference yet nonetheless \"a source unsparingly critical\", summarizes: \"Equally great as antiquary, jurist, political and social historian, Mommsen lived to see the time when among students of Roman history he had pupils, followers, critics, but no rivals. He combined the power of minute investigation with a singular faculty for bold generalization and the capacity for tracing out the effects of thought on political and social life.\"\n\nThe British historian G. P. Gooch, writing in 1913, eleven years after Mommsen's Nobel prize, gives us this evaluation of his \"Römisches Geschichte\": \"Its sureness of touch, its many-sided knowledge, its throbbing vitality and the Venetian colouring of its portraits left an ineffaceable impression on every reader.\" \"It was a work of genius and passion, the creation of a young man, and is as fresh and vital to-day as when it was written.\" About the \"History of Rome\" another British historian Arnold J. Toynbee in 1934 wrote, at the beginning of his own 12-volume universal history, \"Mommsen wrote a great book, [\"Römisches Geschichte\"], which certainly will always be reckoned among the masterpieces of Western historical literature.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "326546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326546", "title": "Homework", "text": "Homework\n\nHomework, or a homework assignment, is a set of tasks assigned to students by their teachers to be completed outside the class. Common homework assignments may include required reading, a writing or typing project, mathematical exercises to be completed, information to be reviewed before a test, or other skills to be practiced.\n\nThe effect of homework is debated. Generally speaking, homework does not improve academic performance among children and may improve academic skills among older students, especially lower-achieving students. Homework also creates stress for students and their parents and reduces the amount of time that students could spend outdoors, exercising, playing, working, sleeping, or in other activities.\n\nThe basic objectives of assigning homework to students are the same as schooling in general: to increase the knowledge and improve the abilities and skills of the students, to prepare them for upcoming (or complex or difficult) lessons, to extend what they know by having them apply it to new situations, or to integrate their abilities by applying different skills to a single task. Homework also provides an opportunity for parents to participate in their children's education. Homework is designed to reinforce what students have already learned. \n\nTeachers have many purposes for assigning homework including:\n\nHomework research dates back to the early 1900s. However, no consensus exists on the general effectiveness on homework. Results of homework studies vary based on multiple factors, such as the age group of those studied and the measure of academic performance.\n\nAmong teenagers, students who spend somewhat more time on homework generally have higher grades, and somewhat higher test scores than students who spend less time on homework. Very high amounts of homework cause students' academic performance to worsen, even among older students. Students who are assigned homework in middle and high school score somewhat better on standardized tests, but the students who have 60 to 90 minutes of homework a day in middle school or more than two hours in high school score worse.\n\nYounger students who spend more time on homework generally have slightly worse, or the same academic performance, as those who spend less time on homework. Homework does not improve academic achievements for grade school students. \n\nLow-achieving students receive more benefit from doing homework than high-achieving students. However, schoolteachers commonly assign less homework to the students who need it most, and more homework to the students who are performing well.\n\nProponents claim that assigning homework to young children helps them learn good study habits. Essentially, they advocate for doing potentially unnecessary homework from approximately age five to ten as a way of practicing for doing necessary homework from age 10 to 15. No research has ever been conducted to determine whether this claim has any merit.\n\nThe amount of homework given does not necessarily affect students' attitudes towards homework and various other aspects of school. \n\nHomework has been identified in numerous studies and articles as a dominant or significant source of stress and anxiety for students. Studies on the relation between homework and health are few compared to studies on academic performance.\n\nA 2007 study of American students by MetLife found that 89% of students felt stressed from homework, with 34% reporting that they \"often\" or \"very often\" felt stressed from homework. Stress was especially evident among high school students. Students that reported stress from homework were more likely to be deprived of sleep.\n\nHomework can cause tension and conflict in the home as well as at school, and can reduce students' family and leisure time. In the survey, failure to complete homework and low grades where homework was a contributing factor was correlated with greater conflict; some students have reported teachers and parents frequently criticizing their work. In the MetLife study, high school students reported spending more time completing homework than performing home tasks. argued that homework can create family conflict and reduce students' quality of life. The authors of , both high school English teachers, reported that their homework disrupted their students' extracurricular activities and responsibilities. However, found that parents were less likely to report homework as a distraction from their children's activities and responsibilities. recommended further empirical study relating to this aspect due to the difference between student and parent observations.\n\n surveyed 4,317 high school students from ten high-performing schools, and found that students reported spending more than 3 hours on homework daily. 72% of the students reported stress from homework, and 82% reported physical symptoms. The students slept an average of 6 hours 48 minutes, lower than the recommendations prescribed by various health agencies.\n\nA study done at the University of Michigan in 2007 concluded that the amount of homework given is increasing. In a sample taken of students between the ages of 6 and 9 years, it was shown that students spend more than 2 hours a week on homework, as opposed to 44 minutes in 1981.\n\nSome educators argue that homework is beneficial to students, as it enhances learning, develops the skills taught in class, and lets educators verify that students comprehend their lessons. Proponents also argue that homework makes it more likely that students will develop and maintain proper study habits that they can use throughout their educational career.\n\nHistorically, homework was frowned upon in American culture. With few students interested in higher education, and due to the necessity to complete daily chores, homework was discouraged not only by parents, but also by school districts. In 1901, the California legislature passed an act that effectively abolished homework for those who attended kindergarten\nthrough the eighth grade. But, in the 1950s, with increasing pressure on the United States to stay ahead in the Cold War, homework made a resurgence, and children were encouraged to keep up with their Russian counterparts. By the end of the Cold War in the early 1990s, the consensus in American education was overwhelmingly in favor of issuing homework to students of all grade levels.\n\nBritish students get more homework than many other countries in Europe. The weekly average for the subject is 5 hours. The main distinction for UK homework is the social gap, with middle-class teenagers getting a disproportionate amount of homework compared to Asia and Europe.\n\nIn 2012, a report by the OECD showed that Spanish children spend 6.4 hours a week on homework. This prompted the CEAPA, representing 12,000 parent associations to call for a homework strike.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12843604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12843604", "title": "Hursti Hack", "text": "Hursti Hack\n\nThe Hursti Hack was a successful attempt to alter the votes recorded on a Diebold optical scan voting machine. The hack is named after Harri Hursti.\n\nThe participants were: \n\nIn a series of four tests conducted in Feb., May, and Dec. 2005, Ion Sancho invited Black Box Voting to Tallahassee after an invitation to check the Diebold machines. Black Box Voting engaged the services of Dr. Herbert Hugh Thompson and Harri Hursti. Dr. Thompson and Hursti believed they could change or hack vote totals without the system detecting entry. The first two projects targeted the computer program that adds up all the voting machine results and produces the final report. On Feb. 14 and again on May 2, Thompson successfully hacked the Diebold GEMS central tabulator and bypassed all passwords by using a Visual Basic script. This, however, would be detected in a vigilant environment if the supervisor of elections checks the poll tapes (voting machine results) against the central tabulator report.\n\nFor purposes of demonstration, an election was run using Leon High School as a model. The results of the first hack are shown below.\n\nTo show that both the results tapes and the central tabulator could be hacked, Black Box Voting then engaged the services of Hursti to hack the poll tapes. Black Box Voting purchased a card reader from the internet and Hursti used it to produce counterfeit memory cards, which successfully altered the voting machine results tapes on May 26, 2005.\n\nA fourth trip to Tallahassee was made on Dec. 13, 2005. Black Box Voting and the producers of the film Hacking Democracy organized the test. Attending were Harris and Kathleen Wynne from Black Box Voting, Hursti, Thompson, along with Susan Pynchon of Florida Fair Elections Coalition from Volusia County, Florida, and Susan Bernecker, a former candidate for New Orleans city council who videotaped Sequoia-brand touch-screen voting machines in her district recording vote after vote for the wrong candidate. During his research, Hursti found that Diebold's cards allowed negative votes. Hursti successfully altered the votes using only a memory card, producing a one-step hack that simultaneously altered both the central tabulator results and the voting machine results tapes for matched (but rigged) results. \"I would have had no way of knowing,\" said Sancho. \"I would have certified this election.\"\n\nThree voting machines hacking tests have been performed by Finnish Computer expert Harri Hursti for the nonprofit elections watchdog group Black Box Voting and the producers of the HBO documentary 'Hacking Democracy' who filmed it. The first two Hursti Hacks were set up in Leon County, Florida with the authorization of Supervisor of Elections Ion Sancho and these tests examined a Diebold Election Systems (DES) Accu-Vote OS 1.94w (optical scan) voting machine. The third Hursti test was conducted for Black Box Voting in collaboration with Bruce Funk, then-County Clerk of Emery County, Utah, on a Diebold TSx touch-screen.\nThe tests by Hursti were the third (May 26, 2005) and fourth (Dec. 13, 2005) in a series of five voting machine examinations produced by the Black Box Voting group. The first four tests were authorized by Supervisor of Elections for Leon County, Ion Sancho to ascertain whether votes could be altered on a Diebold voting machine. Tests on Feb. 14, 2005 and May 2, 2005 were conducted on the Diebold GEMS central tabulator by Herbert Hugh Thompson, who proved that results reports could be altered without a password by using a Visual Basic script. The third and fourth tests were memory card tests performed by Hursti. The fifth test took place with both Hursti and Thompson in Emery County Utah.\n\nDuring Hursti's first memory card hack on May 26, 2005, he altered the program that creates the \"poll tapes\", or voting machine results reports. However, this hack would be detected if the supervisor of elections compared the poll tape results with the GEMS central tally report. The GEMS tally report can be hacked to match, as demonstrated during two earlier Black Box Voting projects in Leon County with Herbert Thompson. Thompson successfully manipulated the GEMS tally program using a Visual Basic script. \n\nThe May 26 version of the Hursti memory card hack would require two steps to succeed without detection in a vigilant election setting: Both the memory card and the GEMS tabulator program would need to have matching hacks. \n\nDuring a videotaped meeting in Cuyahoga County, Ohio, DES Research and Development chief Pat Green stated that checks and balances would detect the tampering and that it would not be possible to alter the votes themselves on the memory card. \n\nHowever, during the Dec. 13 2005 testing, Hursti successfully altered the votes on the memory card. His memory card manipulations falsified both the voting machine results tapes and the GEMS central tabulator report. Leon County Supervisor of Elections Ion Sancho stated that he would have had no way to detect the tampering and would have certified the election.\n\nThe Hursti memory card hack performed in Leon County on Dec. 13, 2005 is a variation on stuffing the ballot box prior to any votes being cast. Hursti had pre-loaded the memory card giving one candidate 5 positive votes and one candidate 5 negative votes to create a \"zero report.\" This keeps the machine accurate in votes cast compared to number of voters.\nActual paper ballots were used pre-printed with the following question: \"Can the votes on this Diebold system be hacked using the memory card?\"\n\nSince Hursti was the technical advisor he was asked by Sancho to remain outside of the test area. Selection of the voting machine was done by random draw. Machine #15191 was pulled as the random machine. Hursti only touched the memory card but did not come into contact with any machines. \n\nSeven participants made out their ballots using the opti-scan paper sheets (Hursti remaining outside the test area). Sancho then went to Hursti and gave him a ballot which Hursti filled out. Hursti then gave Sancho the memory card to insert into the machine. The operation of the machine was explained by Sancho to those in attendance and the card inserted and machine turned on which then produced the \"zero total tape.\" The tape produced zero votes cast. The test ballots were then inserted into the Diebold machine followed by the \"ender card\" (same size as ballot) was inserted telling the machine to turn off its counting function and start its reporting function. The machine then produced a paper tape with 7 yes votes and 1 no vote.\n\nThis test demonstrated that Diebold Election Systems made misrepresentations to Secretaries of State across the nation when the company claimed votes could not be changed on the memory card, the credit card-sized ballot box used by computerized voting machines. More seriously Diebold Election Systems claimed in writing to state election officials that the Diebold memory cards did not contain any executable code. In fact the memory cards did contain executable code - likened to 'a living thing' inside the cards - and it was this executable code that hacking expert, Harri Hursti, used to defraud the Diebold voting system.\n\nFurthermore, DES wrote a press release referring to the famous vote changing 'Hursti Hack', stating that - \"Harri Hursti is shown attacking a DES machine in Florida. But his attack proved later to be a complete sham.\" In response to the test election, California's Secretary of State commissioned a special report by scientists at UC Berkeley to investigate the 'Hursti Hack'. \n\nThe UC Berkeley scientists wrote a Special Report On The Diebold Accuvote Voting Machine. Page 2 of their report states: \n\n\"Harri Hursti's attack does work: Mr. Hursti's attack on the AV-OS is definitely real. He was indeed able to change the election results by doing nothing more than modifying the contents of a memory card. He needed no passwords, no cryptographic keys, and no access to any other part of the voting system, including the GEMS election management server.\"\n\nA spokesman for DES said it was similar to \"leaving your car unlocked, with the windows down and keys left in the ignition and then acting surprised when your car is stolen.\" \n\nThe test election was filmed and shown in the conclusion of the Emmy nominated HBO documentary, \"Hacking Democracy\", which premiered November 2, 2006.\"\n\nIn 2006, Black Box Voting was invited by Emery County, Utah County Clerk Bruce Funk to examine the DES TSx touch-screen. Black Box Voting arranged for the services of Hursti and Black Box board member Jim March, who traveled to Utah March 1 and 2, 2006. Hursti discovered numerous security flaws, the most egregious being the ability to reload the entire operating system and the ability to replace the boot loader simply by inserting a memory card with a specific program name. Hursti discovered that the system would accept macros in a manner that posed a risk to election security. Jim March opened the case of the TSx and photographed its interior, discovering a hidden SD wireless slot and piggyback connectors under the standard modem, both enabling the machine to be equipped for wireless communications without the knowledge of election directors.\n\nAfter seeing how serious the problems were, Black Box Voting engaged the services of Herbert Thompson, then head of the security company Security Innovation, to provide an independent opinion. Both Hursti and Thompson conducted a second series of tests on March 16 and 17, 2006 to confirm findings, which prompted emergency warnings and last minute corrective actions in Pennsylvania, California, and other states.\n"}
{"id": "16292308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16292308", "title": "Kieskompas", "text": "Kieskompas\n\nKieskompas is a Dutch voting advice website. Visitors can use the application to discover their position in the political landscape for upcoming elections. Electoral Compass was officially established at the VU Amsterdam on October 23, 2007.\n\nUsers are asked to give an opinion on 30 propositions, clustered within several issues. The result appears in a spectrum, as a pencil point, between the different political parties or candidates. Visitors can further analyse their political preferences by clicking on the various issues, after which they can compare their position on these different topics with the candidates or parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "538368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538368", "title": "Landlord", "text": "Landlord\n\nA landlord is the owner of a house, apartment, condominium, land or real estate which is rented or leased to an individual or business, who is called a tenant (also a \"lessee\" or \"renter\"). When a juristic person is in this position, the term landlord is used. Other terms include lessor and owner. The term landlady may be used for women owners, and lessor may be used regardless of gender identity. The manager of a UK pub, strictly speaking a licensed victualler, is referred to as the landlord.\n\nThe concept of a landlord may be traced back to the feudal system of manoralism (seignorialism), where a landed estate is owned by a Lord of the Manor (mesne lords), usually members of the lower nobility which came to form the rank of knights in the high medieval period, holding their fief via subinfeudation, but in some cases the land may also be directly subject to a member of higher nobility, as in the royal domain directly owned by a king, or in the Holy Roman Empire imperial villages directly subject to the emperor.\nThe medieval system ultimately continues the system of villas and latifundia (peasant-worked broad farmsteads) of the Roman Empire.\n\nIn modern times, landlord describes any individual(s) or entity (e.g. government body or institution) providing housing for persons who cannot afford or do not want to own their own homes. They may be peripatetic, stationed on a secondment away from their home, not want the risk of a mortgage and/or negative equity, may be a group of co-occupiers unwilling to enter into the ties of co-ownership, or may be improving their credit rating or bank balance to obtain a better-terms future mortgage. \n\nRenters (tenants or other licensees) at the lowest end of the payment scale may be in social or economic difficulty and due to their address or length of tenure may suffer a social stigma.\n\nA sometimes widely promoted social stigma can impact certain for-profit owners of rental property, especially in troubled neighborhoods. The term \"slumlord\" / \"slum landlord\" is sometimes used to describe landlords in those circumstances. Public improvement money/private major economic investment can improve areas and negate the stigma. In the extreme government compulsory purchase powers in many countries enable slum clearance to replace the worst of neighbourhoods.\n\nExamples:\n\n\nA rental agreement, or \"lease\", is the contract defining such terms as the price paid, penalties for late payments, the length of the rental or lease, and the amount of notice required before either the homeowner or tenant cancels the agreement. In general, responsibilities are given as follows: the homeowner is responsible for making repairs and performing property maintenance, and the tenant is responsible for keeping the property clean and safe.\n\nMany owners hire a property management company to take care of all the details of renting their property out to a tenant. This usually includes advertising the property and showing it to prospective tenants, negotiating and preparing the written leases, and then, once rented, collecting rent from the tenant and performing repairs as needed.\n\nIn the United States, residential homeowner–tenant disputes are primarily governed by state law (not federal law) regarding property and contracts. State law and, in some places, city law or county law, sets the requirements for eviction of a tenant. Generally, there are a limited number of reasons for which a landlord or landlady can evict his or her tenant before the expiration of the tenancy, though at the end of the lease term the rental relationship can generally be terminated without giving any reason. Some cities, counties, and States have laws establishing the maximum rent a landlord can charge, known as rent control, or rent regulation, and related eviction. There is also an implied warranty of habitability, whereby a landlord must maintain safe, decent and habitable housing, meeting minimum safety requirements such as smoke detectors and a locking door.\n\nIn Canada, residential homeowner–tenant disputes are primarily governed by provincial law (not federal law) regarding property and contracts. Provincial law sets the requirements for eviction of a tenant. Generally, there are a limited number of reasons for which a landlord can evict a tenant. Some provinces have laws establishing the maximum rent a landlord can charge, known as rent control, or rent regulation, and related eviction. There is also an implied warranty of habitability, whereby a landlord must maintain safe, decent and habitable housing, meeting minimum safety requirements.\n\nPrivate sector renting is largely governed by many of the Landlord and Tenant Acts, in particular the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 which sets bare minimum standards in tenants' rights against their landlords. Another key statute is the Housing Act 2004. Rents can be freely increased at the end of a usual six-month duration, on proper notice given to the tenant. A Possession Order under the most common type, the Assured Shorthold Tenancy (AST) is usually obtainable after eight weeks/two months of unpaid rent, and at the court's discretion after serving the tenant with a Section 8 notice (under the Housing Act 1988 as amended) for a lesser period for all assured tenancies — and on other grounds which defer to the landlord's ownership of the property. If the tenancy is an AST then any possession order will not take effect until six months has passed into the initial tenancy. A tenancy of someone who has been in occupation since before 15 January 1989 usually, if not a shorthold from the outset following their inception from 1980 onwards, may be a \"regulated tenancy\" with many more rights, especially under the Rent Act 1977 and Protection from Eviction Act 1977, introduced by the Third Wilson ministry.\n\nEach house in multiple occupation, a unit the law does not regard it as a single household having more than three tenants, is subject to enhanced regulations including the Housing Act 2004. A council-issued Licence to be a landlord of such a unit is always required in some local authorities (in others, limited to the larger statutory examples).\n\nTenancies above a couple of years are normally called leases and tend to be long; if more than 7 years a new leasehold estate must be registered. These are governed by few of the above rules and are in longer examples deliberately more akin to full ownership than tenancies, in general. They seldom require a sizeable ground rent. The law has not regulated hefty break/resale charges nor does it prevent the sale of leasehold houses; in the 2010s certain of these proposals have been widely consulted upon and are being drafted. Broadly, legislation allows such lessees (tenants) to club together to gain the Right to Manage, and the right to buy the landlord's interest (to collectively enfranchise). It allows them individually to extend their leases for a new, smaller sum (\"premium\"), which if the tenants have enfranchised will not normally be demanded/recommended every 15-35 years. Notice requirements and forms tend to be strict. In smaller examples the tenant, depending on a simple mathematical division of the building, may be able to enfranchise individually. Statute of 1925 implies into nearly all leases (tenancies at low rent and at a premium (fine, initial large sum)) of property that they can be sold (by the lessee, assigned); reducing any restriction to one whereby the landlord may apply standard that is \"reasonable\" vetting, without causing major delay. This is often known as the \"statutory qualified covenant on assignment/alienation\".\n\nIn the overall diminishing domain of social housing, exceptionally, lessees widely acquire over time the Right to Buy for a fixed discount on the market price of the home.\n\nIn commercial property much of the law, especially as to disputes and basic responsibilities, is based on freedom of contract of the common law including the implied terms of precedent decisions of wide-ranging case law such as the meaning of \"good and substantial repair\". Implied principles include \"non-derogation from grant\" and \"quiet enjoyment\". All businesses which are tenants (lessees) must decide whether to contract in or outside of Part 2 (i.e. II) the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 which gives them \"business security of tenure\". If not, it generally applies by default. This \"security of tenure\" is expressly subject to common reasons and associated mechanisms for a landlord to obtain back the premises. If a landlord is selling a block and a qualifying tenant occupies more than 50%, the tenant should be given the right of first refusal at the asking price to buy the block. As in most jurisdictions the law on rigorous adherence to lease terms on unlawful subletting and assignment can be strictly enforced, resulting in financial and premises loss if broken. Failure to repay a rent demand, unlike residential, can result in direct landlord's repossession (\"peaceable re-entry\"). The taking of a tenant's goods without a court-issued warrant (flowing from a court order or outstanding tax demand) (distress) has been banned.\n\nThe incentive, certainly if not social housing, is to obtain a good rental yield (annual return on investment) and prospect of property price inflation. The disincentives are the locally varying duties of landlords in repair/maintenance and administration — and keynote risks (tenant disputes, damage, neglect, loss of rent, insurance inavailability/disputes, economic slump, increased rate of interest on any mortgage, and negative equity or loss of investment). Net income (yield) and capital growth from letting (renting out) particularly in leveraged buy to let, is subject to idiosyncratic risk, which is considered objectively intensified for a highly leveraged investor limited to a small number of similar profile homes, of narrow rental market appeal in areas lacking economic resilience.\n\nRental properties can be paid for by the tenant on whatever basis agreed between the landlord and the tenant — more frequently than weekly or less than yearly is almost unheard of — and which is always included in the lease agreement (preferably for both sides in writing). It should be one of the factors that a tenant considers before moving in. \n\n\nA landlord or its agent can decide to collect a security deposit (and/or in some jurisdictions such as parts of the US, a move-in/administration fee). A deterrent if high and a relative attractive if low in many markets for a tenant, it is rarely debated in pre-tenancy term negotiations. In some jurisdictions either or both are banned in the original sense. Instead a landlord's loss of rent/comprehensive damage insurance may be factored into the rent agreed and/or a special type of deposit, a regulated sum of money as a bond (protected security deposit) from the tenant held by a registered third party (such as certain realty agents) may be permissible. A deposit is normally by law to be offset against arrears (rent deficits) and damage by or failures to clean/repair by the tenant.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the owner and/or manager of a pub (public house) is usually called the \"landlord/landlady\", and often, strictly incorrectly, \"publican\", the latter properly the appellation of a Roman public contractor or tax farmer. In more formal situations, the term used is licensed victualler or simply \"licensee\". A female landlord can be called either a \"landlady\" or simply landlord.\n\nThe Licensed Trade Charity, formed in 2004 from the merger of the Society of Licensed Victuallers and Licensed Victualler's National Homes, exists to serve the retirement needs of Britain's pub landlords. The charity also runs three private schools in Ascot and Reading in Berkshire and Sayers Common in Sussex. As well as having normal full fee paying students, Licensed Victuallers' School in Ascot provides discounted education prices for the children of landlords and others in the catering industry.\n\nThere are significant associations of landlords in various countries. These associations/societies provide support\nfor their members in facing a range of issues \nby providing a means of mutual support,\nand also lobby relevant authorities and parliament with regard to the details and implementation\nof residential and some commercial tenancy legislation. \n\nAustralia\n\nNumerous landlord associations exist in Australia.These associations need to be distinguished from the class of property owner associations that represent\nthe 'big end of town' - the owners of major buildings and very large residential\nhousing complexes, such as the Property Council of Australia.\n\nProperty Owners Association of Australia (POAA)\n\nProperty Owners Association of Victoria (POAVIC) \n\nPOAQ - Property Owners Association of Queensland \n\nProperty Owners Association of NSW \n\nProperty Owners Association of Western Australia \n\nLandlords Association of South Australia \n\nUnited Kingdom\n\nResidential Landlords Association (RLA)\n\nNational Landlords Association (NLA)\n\n"}
{"id": "48112958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48112958", "title": "List of Democratic Party superdelegates, 2016", "text": "List of Democratic Party superdelegates, 2016\n\nThis list tracks the support for given candidates among the 716 unpledged delegates (commonly known as superdelegates) who were eligible to cast a vote at the 2016 Democratic National Convention, held July 25–28, 2016 in Philadelphia. The 8 unpledged delegates from Democrats Abroad carry half-votes at the convention, yielding a total of 712 votes. Unpledged delegates represent about 15% of the overall convention votes (4,767 delegates, 4,763 votes) and come from several categories of prominent Democratic Party members:\n\nSuperdelegates are \"unpledged\" in the sense that they themselves decide which candidate to support. (In other words, they are not allocated according to voter preferences as the majority of delegates are.) Pledged delegates can change their vote if no candidate is elected on the first ballot and can even vote for a different candidate on the first ballot if they are \"released\" by the candidate they are pledged to. Superdelegates, on the other hand, can change their vote purely of their own volition. With the exception of the eight DNC members from the Democrats Abroad, who each receive a half-vote, all superdelegates are entitled to one vote (including when a sitting official or distinguished party leader is also a DNC member). Throughout this page, those who qualify under multiple categories are considered as sitting officials first, then as DNC members, and then as DPLs (for example, a sitting senator who is also a DNC member is listed as a senator).\n\nThe list below is based on the most recent information on how unpledged delegates voted at the roll call vote at the Democratic National Convention in July, 2016.\n\n<section begin=\"List\"/>\n\n<section end=\"List\"/>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "600299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=600299", "title": "List of places named after Josip Broz Tito", "text": "List of places named after Josip Broz Tito\n\nDuring Josip Broz Tito's presidency and in the years following his death in 1980, several places in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and elsewhere were named or renamed in honor of him as part of his cult of personality. Since the end of Yugoslavia, many towns and squares have reverted their names. Numerous streets and squares were also named after Tito, both in former Yugoslavia as well as elsewhere as an honour to a foreign dignitary.\n\nA total of eight towns and cities were named after Tito. Right after World War II, four municipalities whose role in the partisan resistance movement was perceived as significant gained the adjective \"Tito's\" (locally \"Titov/Titova/Titovo\"), while the capital of the smallest federal republic of Montenegro was renamed \"Titograd\" (\"Tito's grad\"). After Tito's death in 1980, four more cities were added, for a total of one in each of the Yugoslav six federal republics and two autonomous provinces. These were:\nWith the dissolution of Yugoslavia, each city was renamed.\n\nMany towns in the countries of former Yugoslavia and in other countries have streets and squares named after him.\n\nIn 2011 the Constitutional Court of Slovenia ruled that naming of a new street after Josip Broz Tito was unconstitutional. The court unanimously ruled that Tito symbolizes severe human rights violations, and that naming the street after him glorifies totalitarian regime and violates human dignity. The decision is highly important, because it was the first time that the highest national court legally evaluated Tito, his work, and his image.\n\nName changes are announced in Selce, Varaždinske Toplice and Velika Gorica.\nThe only towns in Republika Srpska that names a street after Tito are Kozarac and Srebrenica; all other towns are in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15204666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15204666", "title": "List of unsuccessful terrorist plots in the United States post-9/11", "text": "List of unsuccessful terrorist plots in the United States post-9/11\n\nThe following is a list of unsuccessful alleged terrorist plots in the Post-9/11 United States. After the initiation of the War on Terrorism following the attacks of September 11, 2001, several terrorist plots aimed at civilian and military targets have failed to succeed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38094114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38094114", "title": "Local Public Planning Council", "text": "Local Public Planning Council\n\nLocal Public Planning Councils, Local Councils of Public Planning or Consejos Locales de Planificación Pública (CLPP), are institutions of local government in Venezuela as enacted by the 1999 constitution of Venezuela. They are a subdivision of municipal government that is unitary. The 335 municipalities in the country are divided into 1,084 civil parishes. They serve as functions for community control of local services and resources. Due to government functioning on a majority basis, the coalitions that this entails have hindered effective functioning of the process.\n\nColonial Venezuela led to the establishment of the 23 states of Venezuela out of the colonial provinces. Since independence in 1821, a variety of states have been merged, culminating in an expansion by three states in the late 1990s. The Federal War of 1859-1863 between the conservatives and liberals led to federalism and hindered devolution as a result of the ensuing \"caudillismo\". A 1969 presidential decree led to the grouping of the states into 10 administrative regions and further consolidated the federal government's authority. \n\nIn addition to Venezuela under Hugo Chavez, Brazil's Lula da Silva has also cited the need for change to the elite-dominated system by highlighting an interrelationship between the political and the social fields. In the latter case, this led to \"participatory budgeting,\" which allows for an increase in civil participation of the allocation of local government resources. In Venezuela, however, this involved a further step of providing the tools for civil participation in influencing decisions in regards to daily economic and social welfare as participatory democracy to address social exclusion by increasing accountability and directing more resources to direct representation.\n\nThe idea behind the CLPP is to counter a prevailing systemic poverty that had not changed despite democratisation across the continent. It seeks to maintain a comprehensive civil society mechanism, an active political culture and enhance opportunities for political participation. It also seeks to complement representative democracy with participatory democracy. It intends to be an engine for direct popular participation at the grassroots level.\n"}
{"id": "30152110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30152110", "title": "Maria do Rosário", "text": "Maria do Rosário\n\nMaria do Rosário Nunes (born 22 November 1966) is a Brazilian teacher and politician. She graduated in pedagogy from the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, and took a postgraduate degree at the University of São Paulo. she has served as the Secretary for Human Rights under the Rousseff administration.\n\nMaria do Rosário Nunes was born on 22 November 1966 in the municipality of Veranópolis. In her youth she was an active member of the student movement. Later, as a teacher in public schools, Maria do Rosário became active in the trade union movement. A graduate teacher, she took a postgraduate degree in domestic violence at the Laboratory for Child Studies of the University of São Paulo.\n\nMaria do Rosário was elected, as a member of the Communist Party of Brazil, to the Porto Alegre City Council for the 1993-1996 term with 7,555 votes. The year after her inauguration she switched to the Workers' Party. In 1996 she was re-elected with over 20,000 votes, the top-voted councillor that year. During her two terms as councilwoman, Maria do Rosário acted as president of the education and human rights committees. Her second term at the Porto Alegre City Council was interrupted when she was elected to the Legislative Assembly of Rio Grande do Sul with over 77,000 votes in 1998. That year she became the second top voted state deputy of Rio Grande do Sul. As a state deputy, she acted as chairwoman of the citizenship and human rights committee and vice-president of the Legislative Assembly for two years.\n\nAt the next election Maria do Rosário was elected to the Chamber of Deputies with over 140,000 votes. She was re-elected in 2006 with 110,000 votes. In the National Congress she served as the rapporteur of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry which investigated people responsible for sexual exploitation of children. Maria do Rosário represented the Chamber in the Commission on Political Deaths and Disappearances during the military dictatorship and acted as chairwoman of the Special Committee for the Adoption Bill. In 2003 she became coordinator of the Parliamentary Front in Defense of Children's Rights, in addition to serving as vice-chairwoman of the human rights and education committees. In 2009 she was the chairwoman of the education committee, having coordinated a series of debates about the new National Education Plan, which sets the goals for the area for the period from 2011 to 2020.\n\nIn 2004 Maria do Rosário was an unsuccessful candidate for deputy mayor on the ticket headed by fellow party member Raul Pont. In 2008 she was a mayoral candidate, losing to incumbent mayor José Fogaça. She was the Workers' Party's vice-president from 2005 to 2007.\n\nShe was re-elected for a third term in 2010, after resolving legal issues relating to her 2008 campaign.\n\nOn 8 December 2010 President-elect Dilma Rousseff appointed Maria do Rosário to succeed Paulo Vannuchi as head of the Secretariat of the Presidency of the Republic for Human Rights, a ministerial-level cabinet office. Although she did not indicate priorities, the press points the battle against homophobia and the establishment of truth and reconciliation commissions to investigate the crimes perpetrated by public office holders during the dictatorship among her top priorities. She was also expected to work for the Brazilian government to fulfill the verdict of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights against the country's amnesty law.\n\n"}
{"id": "93088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93088", "title": "Neoliberalism", "text": "Neoliberalism\n\nNeoliberalism or neo-liberalism is the 20th-century resurgence of 19th-century ideas associated with \"laissez-faire\" economic liberalism. Those ideas include economic liberalization policies such as privatization, austerity, deregulation, free trade and reductions in government spending in order to increase the role of the private sector in the economy and society. These market-based ideas and the policies they inspired constitute a paradigm shift away from the post-war Keynesian consensus which lasted from 1945 to 1980.\n\nEnglish-speakers have used the term \"neoliberalism\" since the start of the 20th century with different meanings, but it became more prevalent in its current meaning in the 1970s and 1980s, used by scholars in a wide variety of social sciences as well as by critics. Modern advocates of free market policies avoid the term \"neoliberal\" and some scholars have described the term as meaning different things to different people as neoliberalism \"mutated\" into geopolitically distinct hybrids as it travelled around the world. As such, neoliberalism shares many attributes with other concepts that have contested meanings, including democracy.\n\nThe definition and usage of the term have changed over time. As an economic philosophy, neoliberalism emerged among European liberal scholars in the 1930s as they attempted to trace a so-called \"third\" or \"middle\" way between the conflicting philosophies of classical liberalism and socialist planning. The impetus for this development arose from a desire to avoid repeating the economic failures of the early 1930s, which neoliberals mostly blamed on the economic policy of classical liberalism. In the decades that followed, the use of the term \"neoliberal\" tended to refer to theories which diverged from the more \"laissez-faire\" doctrine of classical liberalism and which promoted instead a market economy under the guidance and rules of a strong state, a model which came to be known as the social market economy.\n\nIn the 1960s, usage of the term \"neoliberal\" heavily declined. When the term re-appeared in the 1980s in connection with Augusto Pinochet's economic reforms in Chile, the usage of the term had shifted. It had not only become a term with negative connotations employed principally by critics of market reform, but it also had shifted in meaning from a moderate form of liberalism to a more radical and \"laissez-faire\" capitalist set of ideas. Scholars now tended to associate it with the theories of Mont Pelerin Society economists Friedrich Hayek, Milton Friedman and James M. Buchanan, along with politicians and policy-makers such as Margaret Thatcher, Ronald Reagan and Alan Greenspan. Once the new meaning of neoliberalism became established as a common usage among Spanish-speaking scholars, it diffused into the English-language study of political economy. By 1994, with the passage of NAFTA and with the Zapatistas' reaction to this development in Chiapas, the term entered global circulation. Scholarship on the phenomenon of neoliberalism has been growing over the last couple of decades.\n\nAn early use of the term in English was in 1898 by the French economist Charles Gide to describe the economic beliefs of the Italian economist Maffeo Pantaleoni, with the term \"néo-libéralisme\" previously existing in French, and the term was later used by others including the classical liberal economist Milton Friedman in a 1951 essay. In 1938 at the Colloque Walter Lippmann, the term \"neoliberalism\" was proposed, among other terms, and ultimately chosen to be used to describe a certain set of economic beliefs. The colloquium defined the concept of neoliberalism as involving \"the priority of the price mechanism, free enterprise, the system of competition, and a strong and impartial state\". To be \"neoliberal\" meant advocating a modern economic policy with state intervention. Neoliberal state interventionism brought a clash with the opposing \"laissez-faire\" camp of classical liberals, like Ludwig von Mises. Most scholars in the 1950s and 1960s understood neoliberalism as referring to the social market economy and its principal economic theorists such as Eucken, Röpke, Rüstow and Müller-Armack. Although Hayek had intellectual ties to the German neoliberals, his name was only occasionally mentioned in conjunction with neoliberalism during this period due to his more pro-free market stance.\n\nDuring the military rule under Augusto Pinochet (1973–1990) in Chile, opposition scholars took up the expression to describe the economic reforms implemented there and its proponents (the \"Chicago Boys\"). Once this new meaning was established among Spanish-speaking scholars, it diffused into the English-language study of political economy. According to one study of 148 scholarly articles, neoliberalism is almost never defined but used in several senses to describe ideology, economic theory, development theory, or economic reform policy. It has largely become a term of condemnation employed by critics and suggests a market fundamentalism closer to the \"laissez-faire\" principles of the paleoliberals than to the ideas of those who originally attended the colloquium. This leaves some controversy as to the precise meaning of the term and its usefulness as a descriptor in the social sciences, especially as the number of different kinds of market economies have proliferated in recent years.\n\nAnother center-left movement from modern American liberalism that used the term \"neoliberalism\" to describe its ideology formed in the United States in the 1970s. According to David Brooks, prominent neoliberal politicians included Al Gore and Bill Clinton of the Democratic Party of the United States. The neoliberals coalesced around two magazines, \"The New Republic\" and the \"Washington Monthly\". The \"godfather\" of this version of neoliberalism was the journalist Charles Peters, who in 1983 published \"A Neoliberal's Manifesto\".\n\nElizabeth Shermer argued that the term gained popularity largely among left-leaning academics in the 1970s \"to describe and decry a late twentieth-century effort by policy makers, think-tank experts, and industrialists to condemn social-democratic reforms and unapologetically implement free-market policies\". Neoliberal theory argues that a free market will allow efficiency, economic growth, income distribution, and technological progress to occur. Any state intervention to encourage these phenomena will worsen economic performance.\nAccording to some scholars, neoliberalism is commonly used as a catchphrase and pejorative term, outpacing similar terms such as monetarism, neoconservatism, the Washington Consensus and \"market reform\" in much scholarly writing, The term has been criticized, particularly by those who often advocate for policies characterized as neoliberal. Historian Daniel Stedman Jones says the term \"is too often used as a catch-all shorthand for the horrors associated with globalization and recurring financial crises\". \"The Handbook of Neoliberalism\" posits that the term has \"become a means of identifying a seemingly ubiquitous set of market-oriented policies as being largely responsible for a wide range of social, political, ecological and economic problems\". Yet the handbook argues to view the term as merely a pejorative or \"radical political slogan\" is to \"reduce its capacity as an analytic frame. If neoliberalism is to serve as a way of understanding the transformation of society over the last few decades then the concept is in need of unpacking\". Currently, neoliberalism is most commonly used to refer to market-oriented reform policies such as \"eliminating price controls, deregulating capital markets, lowering trade barriers\" and reducing state influence on the economy, especially through privatization and austerity. Other scholars note that neoliberalism is associated with the economic policies introduced by Margaret Thatcher in the United Kingdom and Ronald Reagan in the United States.\n\nThere are several distinct usages of the term that can be identified:\n\nSociologists Fred L. Block and Margaret R. Somers claim there is a dispute over what to call the influence of free market ideas which have been used to justify the retrenchment of New Deal programs and policies over the last thirty years: neoliberalism, \"laissez-faire\" or \"free market ideology\". Others such as Susan Braedley and Med Luxton assert that neoliberalism is a political philosophy which seeks to \"liberate\" the processes of capital accumulation. In contrast, Frances Fox Piven sees neoliberalism as essentially hyper-capitalism. However, Robert W. McChesney, while defining it as \"capitalism with the gloves off\", goes on to assert that the term is largely unknown by the general public, particularly in the United States. Lester Spence uses the term to critique trends in Black politics, defining neoliberalism as \"the general idea that society works best when the people and the institutions within it work or are shaped to work according to market principles\". According to Philip Mirowski, neoliberalism views the market as the greatest information processor superior to any human being. It is hence considered as the arbiter of truth. Neoliberalism is distinct from liberalism insofar as it does not advocate \"laissez-faire\" economic policy but instead is highly constructivist and advocates a strong state to bring about market-like reforms in every aspect of society.\n\nThe worldwide Great Depression of the 1930s brought about high unemployment and widespread poverty and was widely regarded as a failure of economic liberalism. To renew liberalism, a group of 25 intellectuals organised the Walter Lippmann Colloquium at Paris in August 1938. It brought together Louis Rougier, Walter Lippmann, Friedrich von Hayek, Ludwig von Mises, Wilhelm Röpke and Alexander Rüstow among others. Most agreed that the liberalism of \"laissez-faire\" had failed and that a new liberalism needed to take its place with a major role for the state. Mises and Hayek refused to condemn \"laissez-faire\", but all participants were united in their call for a new project they dubbed \"neoliberalism\". They agreed to develop the Colloquium into a permanent think tank called Centre International d’Études pour la Rénovation du Libéralisme based in Paris.\n\nDeep disagreements in the group separated \"true (third way) neoliberals\" around Rüstow and Lippmann on the one hand and old school liberals around Mises and Hayek on the other. The first group wanted a strong state to supervise, while the second insisted that the only legitimate role for the state was to abolish barriers to market entry. Rüstow wrote that Hayek and Mises were relics of the liberalism that caused the Great Depression. Mises denounced the other faction, complaining that ordoliberalism really meant \"ordo-interventionism\".\n\nNeoliberalism began accelerating in importance with the establishment of the Mont Pelerin Society in 1947, whose founding members included Friedrich Hayek, Milton Friedman, Karl Popper, George Stigler and Ludwig von Mises. The Colloque Walter Lippmann was largely forgotten. The new society brought together the widely scattered free market thinkers and political figures.\n\nWith central planning in the ascendancy worldwide and few avenues to influence policymakers, the society served to bring together isolated advocates of liberalism as a \"rallying point\" – as Milton Friedman phrased it. Meeting annually, it would soon be a \"kind of international 'who's who' of the classical liberal and neo-liberal intellectuals.\" While the first conference in 1947 was almost half American, the Europeans dominated by 1951. Europe would remain the epicenter of the community with Europeans dominating the leadership.\n\nIn the 1960s, Latin American intellectuals began to notice the ideas of ordoliberalism; these intellectuals often used the Spanish term \"neoliberalismo\" to refer to this school of thought. They were particularly impressed by the social market economy and the Wirtschaftswunder (\"economic miracle\") in Germany and speculated about the possibility of accomplishing similar policies in their own countries. Neoliberalism in 1960s meant essentially a philosophy that was more moderate than classical liberalism and favored using state policy to temper social inequality and counter a tendency toward monopoly.\n\nIn 1976, the military dictatorship's economic plan led by Martínez de Hoz was the first attempt at a neoliberalist plan in Argentina. They implemented a fiscal austerity plan, whose goal was to reduce money printing and thus inflation. In order to achieve this, salaries were frozen, but they were unable to reduce inflation, which led to a drop in the real salary of the working class. Aiming for a free market, they also decided to open the country's borders, so that foreign goods could freely enter the country. Argentina's industry, which had been on the rise for the last 20 years since Frondizi's economic plan, rapidly declined, because it wasn't able to compete with foreign goods. Finally, the deregulation of the financial sector, gave a short-term growth, but then rapidly fell apart when capital fled to the United States in the Reagan years. Following the measures, there was an increase in poverty from 9% in 1975 to 40% at the end of 1982.\n\nFrom 1989 to 2001, another neoliberalist plan was attempted by Domingo Cavallo. This time, the privatization of public services was the main objective of the government; although financial deregulation and open borders to foreign goods were also re-implemented. While some privatizations were welcomed, the majority of them were criticized for not being in the people's best interests. Along with an increased labour market flexibility, the final result of this plan was an unemployment rate of 25% and 60% of people living under the poverty line, alongside 33 people killed by the police in protests that ended up with the president, Fernando de la Rúa, resigning two years before his term as president was completed.\n\nIn Australia, neoliberal economic policies (known at the time as \"economic rationalism\" or \"economic fundamentalism\") were embraced by governments of both the Labor Party and the Liberal Party since the 1980s. The Labor governments of Bob Hawke and Paul Keating from 1983-96 pursued economic liberalisation and a program of micro-economic reform. These governments privatised government corporations, deregulated factor markets, floated the Australian dollar and reduced trade protection.\n\nKeating, as federal treasurer, implemented a compulsory superannuation guarantee system in 1992 to increase national savings and reduce future government liability for old age pensions. The financing of universities was deregulated, requiring students to contribute to university fees through a repayable loan system known as the Higher Education Contribution Scheme (HECS) and encouraging universities to increase income by admitting full-fee-paying students, including foreign students. The admission of domestic fee-paying students to public universities was abolished in 2009 by the Rudd Labor government.\n\nImmigration to the mainland capitals by refugees had seen capital flows follow soon after, such as from war-torn Lebanon and Vietnam. Latter economic-migrants from mainland China also, up to recent restrictions, had invested significantly in the property markets.\n\nIn 1955, a select group of Chilean students (later known as the Chicago Boys) were invited to the University of Chicago to pursue postgraduate studies in economics. They worked directly under Friedman and his disciple, Arnold Harberger, while also being exposed to Hayek. When they returned to Chile in the 1960s, they began a concerted effort to spread the philosophy and policy recommendations of the Chicago and Austrian schools, setting up think tanks and publishing in ideologically sympathetic media. Under the military dictatorship headed by Pinochet and severe social repression, the Chicago boys implemented radical economic reform. The latter half of the 1970s witnessed rapid and extensive privatization, deregulation and reductions in trade barriers. In 1978, policies that would reduce the role of the state and infuse competition and individualism into areas such as labor relations, pensions, health and education were introduced. These policies resulted in widening inequality as they negatively impacted the wages, benefits and working conditions of Chile's working class. According to Chilean economist Alejandro Foxley, by the end of Pinochet's reign around 44% of Chilean families were living below the poverty line. According to Klien, by the late 1980s the economy had stabilized and was growing, but around 45% of the population had fallen into poverty while the wealthiest 10% saw their incomes rise by 83%.\n\nIn 1990, the military dictatorship ended. Hayek argued that increased economic freedom had put pressure on the dictatorship over time and increased political freedom. Years earlier, he argued that \"economic control is not merely control of a sector of human life which can be separated from the rest; it is the control of the means for all our ends\". The Chilean scholars Martínez and Díaz rejected this argument, pointing to the long tradition of democracy in Chile. The return of democracy required the defeat of the Pinochet regime, though it had been fundamental in saving capitalism. The essential contribution came from profound mass rebellions and finally, old party elites using old institutional mechanisms to bring back democracy.\n\nThe European Union (EU) is sometimes considered as a neoliberal organization as it facilitates free trade and freedom of movement. It erodes national protectionism and it limits national subsidies. Others underline that the EU is not completely neoliberal as it leaves the possibility to develop welfare state policies.\n\nNeoliberal ideas were first implemented in West Germany. The economists around Ludwig Erhard drew on the theories they had developed in the 1930s and 1940s and contributed to West Germany's reconstruction after the Second World War. Erhard was a member of the Mont Pelerin Society and in constant contact with other neoliberals. He pointed out that he is commonly classified as neoliberal and that he accepted this classification.\n\nThe ordoliberal Freiburg School was more pragmatic. The German neoliberals accepted the classical liberal notion that competition drives economic prosperity, but they argued that a laissez-faire state policy stifles competition as the strong devour the weak since monopolies and cartels could pose a threat to freedom of competition. They supported the creation of a well-developed legal system and capable regulatory apparatus. While still opposed to full-scale Keynesian employment policies or an extensive welfare state, German neoliberal theory was marked by the willingness to place humanistic and social values on par with economic efficiency. Alfred Müller-Armack coined the phrase \"social market economy\" to emphasize the egalitarian and humanistic bent of the idea. According to Boas and Gans-Morse, Walter Eucken stated that \"social security and social justice are the greatest concerns of our time\".\nErhard emphasized that the market was inherently social and did not need to be made so. He hoped that growing prosperity would enable the population to manage much of their social security by self-reliance and end the necessity for a widespread welfare state. By the name of \"Volkskapitalismus\", there were some efforts to foster private savings. However, although average contributions to the public old age insurance were quite small, it remained by far the most important old age income source for a majority of the German population, therefore despite liberal rhetoric the 1950s witnessed what has been called a \"reluctant expansion of the welfare state\". To end widespread poverty among the elderly the pension reform of 1957 brought a significant extension of the German welfare state which already had been established under Otto von Bismarck. Rüstow, who had coined the label \"neoliberalism\", criticized that development tendency and pressed for a more limited welfare program.\n\nHayek did not like the expression \"social market economy\", but stated in 1976 that some of his friends in Germany had succeeded in implementing the sort of social order for which he was pleading while using that phrase. However, in Hayek's view the social market economy's aiming for both a market economy and social justice was a muddle of inconsistent aims. Despite his controversies with the German neoliberals at the Mont Pelerin Society, Ludwig von Mises stated that Erhard and Müller-Armack accomplished a great act of liberalism to restore the German economy and called this \"a lesson for the US\". However, according to different research Mises believed that the ordoliberals were hardly better than socialists. As an answer to Hans Hellwig's complaints about the interventionist excesses of the Erhard ministry and the ordoliberals, Mises wrote: \"I have no illusions about the true character of the politics and politicians of the social market economy\". According to Mises, Erhard's teacher Franz Oppenheimer \"taught more or less the New Frontier line of\" President Kennedy's \"Harvard consultants (Schlesinger, Galbraith, etc.)\".\n\nIn Germany, neoliberalism at first was synonymous with both ordoliberalism and social market economy. But over time the original term neoliberalism gradually disappeared since social market economy was a much more positive term and fit better into the \"Wirtschaftswunder\" (economic miracle) mentality of the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nThe Middle East experienced an onset of neoliberal policies from the late 1960s onwards. Egypt is frequently linked to the standardisation of neoliberal policies, particularly with regard to the 'open-door' policies of President Anwar Sadat throughout the 1970s, and Hosni Mubarak's successive economic reforms from 1981 to 2011. These measures, known as \"al-Infitah\", were later diffused across the region. In Tunisia, neoliberal economic policies are associated with Ben Ali's dictatorship, where the linkages between authoritarianism and neoliberalism become clear. Responses to globalisation and economic reforms in the Gulf have also been approached via a neoliberal analytical framework.\n\nFollowing the death of Mao Zedong, Deng Xiaoping led the country through far ranging market centered reforms, with the slogan of Xiǎokāng, that combined neoliberalism with centralized authoritarianism. These focused on agriculture, industry, education and science/defense.\n\nDuring her tenure as Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher oversaw a number of neoliberal reforms including: tax reduction, reforming exchange rates, deregulation and privatisation. These reforms were continued and supported by her successor John Major and although opposed by the Labour Party at the time, they were largely left unaltered when the latter returned to government in 1997. Instead, the Labour government under Tony Blair finished off a variety of uncompleted privatisation and deregulation measures.\n\nThe Adam Smith Institute, a United Kingdom-based free market think tank and lobbying group formed in 1977 and a major driver of the aforementioned neoliberal reforms, officially changed its libertarian label to neoliberal in October 2016.\n\nDavid Harvey traces the rise of neoliberalism in the United States to Lewis Powell's 1971 confidential memorandum to the Chamber of Commerce. A call to arms to the business community to counter criticism of the free enterprise system, it was a significant factor in the rise of conservative organizations and think-tanks which advocated for neoliberal policies, such as the Business Roundtable, The Heritage Foundation, the Cato Institute, Citizens for a Sound Economy, Accuracy in Academia and the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research. For Powell, universities were becoming an ideological battleground, and he recommended the establishment of an intellectual infrastructure to serve as a counterweight to the increasingly popular ideas of Ralph Nader and other opponents of big business. On the left, neoliberal ideas were developed and widely popularized by John Kenneth Galbraith while the Chicago School ideas were advanced and repackaged into a progressive, leftist perspective in Lester Thurow's influential 1980 book \"The Zero-Sum Society\".\n\nEarly roots of neoliberalism were laid in the 1970s during the Carter administration, with deregulation of the trucking, banking and airline industries. This trend continued into the 1980s under the Reagan administration, which included tax cuts, increased defense spending, financial deregulation and trade deficit expansion. Likewise, concepts of supply-side economics, discussed by the Democrats in the 1970s, culminated in the 1980 Joint Economic Committee report \"Plugging in the Supply Side\". This was picked up and advanced by the Reagan administration, with Congress following Reagan's basic proposal and cutting federal income taxes across the board by 25% in 1981.\n\nDuring the 1990s, the Clinton administration also embraced neoliberalism by supporting the passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), continuing the deregulation of the financial sector through passage of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act and the repeal of the Glass–Steagall Act and implementing cuts to the welfare state through passage of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Act. The neoliberalism of the Clinton administration differs from that of Reagan as the Clinton administration purged neoliberalism of neoconservative positions on militarism, family values, opposition to multiculturalism and neglect of ecological issues. Writing in \"New York\", journalist Jonathan Chait disputed accusations that the Democratic Party had been hijacked by neoliberals, saying that its policies have largely stayed the same since the New Deal. Instead, Chait suggested this came from arguments that presented a false dichotomy between free market economics and socialism, ignoring mixed economies. Historian Walter Scheidel says that both parties shifted to promote free market capitalism in the 1970s, with the Democratic Party being \"instrumental in implementing financial deregulation in the 1990s\".\n\nIn New Zealand, neoliberal economic policies were implemented under the Fourth Labour Government led by Prime Minister David Lange. These neoliberal policies are commonly referred to as Rogernomics, a portmanteau of “Roger” and “economics”, after Lange appointed Roger Douglas minister of finance in 1984.\n\nLange's government had inherited a severe balance of payments crisis as a result of the deficits from the previously implemented two-year freeze on wages and prices by preceding Prime Minister Robert Muldoon who had also stubbornly maintained an unsustainable exchange rate. The inherited economic conditions lead Lange to remark “We ended up being run very similarly to a Polish shipyard.” On 14 September 1984 Lange's government held an Economic Summit to discuss the underlying problems in the New Zealand economy, which lead to advocacy of radical economic reform previously proposed by the Treasury Department.\n\nA reform program consisting of deregulation and the removal of tariffs and subsidies was put in place which consequently affected New Zealand's agricultural community, who were hit hard by the loss of subsidies to farmers. A superannuation surcharge was introduced, despite having promised not to reduce superannuation, resulting in Labour losing support from the elderly. The finance markets were also deregulated, removing restrictions on interests rates, lending and foreign exchange and in March 1985, the New Zealand dollar was floated. Subsequently, a number of government departments were converted into state-owned enterprises which lead to great job loss: Electricity Corporation 3,000; Coal Corporation 4,000; Forestry Corporation 5,000; New Zealand Post 8,000.\n\nNew Zealand became a part of a global economy. The focus in the economy shifted from the productive sector to finance as a result of zero restrictions on overseas money coming into the country. Finance capital outstripped industrial capital and subsequently, the manufacturing industry suffered approximately 76,000 job losses.\n\nThe Austrian School is a school of economic thought which bases its study of economic phenomena on the interpretation and analysis of the purposeful actions of individuals. It derives its name from its origin in late-19th and early-20th century Vienna with the work of Carl Menger, Eugen von Böhm-Bawerk, Friedrich von Wieser and others. In 21st century usage by such economists as Mark Skousen, reference to the Austrian school often denotes a reference to the free-market economics of Friedrich Hayek who began his teaching in Vienna.\n\nAmong the contributions of the Austrian School to economic theory are the subjective theory of value, marginalism in price theory and the formulation of the economic calculation problem. Many theories developed by \"first wave\" Austrian economists have been absorbed into most mainstream schools of economics. These include Carl Menger's theories on marginal utility, Friedrich von Wieser's theories on opportunity cost and Eugen von Böhm-Bawerk's theories on time preference as well as Menger and Böhm-Bawerk's criticisms of Marxian economics. The Austrian School follows an approach, termed methodological individualism, a version of which was codified by Ludwig von Mises and termed \"praxeology\" in his book published in English as \"Human Action\" in 1949.\n\nThe former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, speaking of the originators of the School, said in 2000 that \"the Austrian School have reached far into the future from when most of them practiced and have had a profound and, in my judgment, probably an irreversible effect on how most mainstream economists think in this country\". In 1987, Nobel laureate James M. Buchanan told an interviewer: \"I have no objections to being called an Austrian. Hayek and Mises might consider me an Austrian but, surely some of the others would not\". Republican Congressman Ron Paul stated that he adheres to Austrian School economics and has authored six books which refer to the subject. Paul's former economic adviser, investment dealer Peter Schiff, also calls himself an adherent of the Austrian School. Jim Rogers, investor and financial commentator, also considers himself of the Austrian School of economics. Chinese economist Zhang Weiying, who is known in China for his advocacy of free market reforms, supports some Austrian theories such as the Austrian theory of the business cycle.\n\nThe Chicago school of economics describes a neoclassical school of thought within the academic community of economists, with a strong focus around the faculty of University of Chicago. Chicago macroeconomic theory rejected Keynesianism in favor of monetarism until the mid-1970s, when it turned to new classical macroeconomics heavily based on the concept of rational expectations. The school is strongly associated with economists such as Milton Friedman, George Stigler, Ronald Coase and Gary Becker. In the 21 century, economists such as Mark Skousen refer to Friedrich Hayek as a key economist who influenced this school in the 20th century having started his career in Vienna and the Austrian school of economics.\n\nThe school emphasizes non-intervention from government and generally rejects regulation in markets as inefficient with the exception of central bank regulation of the money supply (i.e. monetarism). Although the school's association with neoliberalism is sometimes resisted by its proponents, its emphasis on reduced government intervention in the economy and a \"laissez-faire\" ideology have brought about an affiliation between the Chicago school and neoliberal economics.\n\nIn \"The Road to Serfdom\", Hayek has argued: \"Economic control is not merely control of a sector of human life which can be separated from the rest; it is the control of the means for all our ends\".\nLater in his book \"Capitalism and Freedom\" (1962), Friedman developed the argument that economic freedom, while itself an extremely important component of total freedom, is also a necessary condition for political freedom. He commented that centralized control of economic activities was always accompanied with political repression.\n\nIn his view, the voluntary character of all transactions in an unregulated market economy and wide diversity that it permits are fundamental threats to repressive political leaders and greatly diminish power to coerce. Through elimination of centralized control of economic activities, economic power is separated from political power and the one can serve as counterbalance to the other. Friedman feels that competitive capitalism is especially important to minority groups since impersonal market forces protect people from discrimination in their economic activities for reasons unrelated to their productivity.\n\nAmplifying Friedman's argument, it has often been pointed out that increasing economic freedoms tend to raise expectations on political freedoms, eventually leading to democracy. Other scholars see the existence of non-democratic yet market-liberal regimes and the undermining of democratic control by market processes as strong evidence that such a general, ahistorical nexus cannot be upheld. Contemporary discussion on the relationship between neoliberalism and democracy shifted to a more historical perspective, studying extent and circumstances of how much the two are mutually dependent, contradictory or incompatible.\n\nStanley Fish argues that neoliberalization of academic life may promote a narrower and in his opinion more accurate definition of academic freedom \"as the freedom to do the academic job, not the freedom to expand it to the point where its goals are infinite\". What Fish urges is \"not an inability to take political stands, but a refraining from doing so in the name of academic responsibility\".\n\nNeoliberalism has received criticism both from the political left as well as the right, in addition to myriad activists and academics. Thomas Marois and Lucia Pradella posit that the impact of the global 2008–2009 crisis has given rise to new scholarship that criticizes neoliberalism and seeks policy alternatives.\n\nMuch of the literature in support of neoliberalism relies on the idea that neoliberal market logic improves a very narrow monetized conception of performance, which is not necessarily the best approach. This focus on economic efficiency can compromise other, perhaps more important factors. Anthropologist Mark Fleming argues that when the performance of a transit system is assessed purely in terms of economic efficiency, social goods such as strong workers' rights are considered impediments to maximum performance, which given the monetization of time means timely premium rapid networks. Using the case study of the San Francisco Muni, Fleming shows that neoliberal worldview has resulted in vicious attacks on the drivers' union, for example through the setting of impossible schedules so that drivers are necessarily late and through brutal public smear campaigns. This ultimately resulted in the passing of Proposition G, which severely undermined the powers of the Muni drivers' union. Workers' rights are by no means the only victims of the neoliberal focus on economic efficiency as it is important to recognize that this vision and metric of performance judgment de-emphasizes literally every public good that is not conventionally monetized. For example, the geographers Birch and Siemiatycki contend that the growth of marketization ideology has shifted discourse such that it focuses on monetary rather than social objectives, making it harder to justify public goods driven by equity, environmental concerns and social justice.\n\nDavid Harvey described neoliberalism as a class project, designed to impose class on society through liberalism. Economists Gérard Duménil and Dominique Lévy posit that \"the restoration and increase of the power, income, and wealth of the upper classes\" are the primary objectives of the neoliberal agenda Economist David M. Kotz contends that neoliberalism \"is based on the thorough domination of labor by capital\". The emergence of the \"precariat\", a new class facing acute socio-economic insecurity and alienation, has been attributed to the globalization of neoliberalism.\n\nSociologist Thomas Volscho argues that the imposition of neoliberalism in the United States arose from a conscious political mobilization by capitalist elites in the 1970s who faced two crises: the legitimacy of capitalism and a falling rate of profitability in industry. Various neoliberal ideologies (such as monetarism and supply-side economics) had been long advanced by elites, translated into policies by the Reagan administration and ultimately resulted in less governmental regulation and a shift from a tax-financed state to a debt-financed one. While the profitability of industry and the rate of economic growth never recovered to the heyday of the 1960s, the political and economic power of Wall Street and finance capital vastly increased due to the debt-financing of the state.\nSeveral scholars have linked the rise of neoliberalism to unprecedented levels of mass incarceration of the poor in the United States. Sociologist Loïc Wacquant argues that neoliberal policy for dealing with social instability among economically marginalized populations following the implementation of other neoliberal policies, which have allowed for the retrenchment of the social welfare state and the rise of punitive workfare and have increased gentrification of urban areas, privatization of public functions, the shrinking of collective protections for the working class via economic deregulation and the rise of underpaid, precarious wage labor, is the criminalization of poverty and mass incarceration. By contrast, it is extremely lenient in dealing with those in the upper echelons of society, in particular when it comes to economic crimes of the privileged classes and corporations such as fraud, embezzlement, insider trading, credit and insurance fraud, money laundering and violation of commerce and labor codes. According to Wacquant, neoliberalism does not shrink government, but instead sets up a \"centaur state\" with little governmental oversight for those at the top and strict control of those at the bottom.\n\nIn expanding upon Wacquant's thesis, sociologist and political economist John L. Campbell of Dartmouth College suggests that through privatization, the prison system exemplifies the centaur state: On the one hand, it punishes the lower class, which populates the prisons; on the other hand, it profits the upper class, which owns the prisons, and it employs the middle class, which runs them.\nIn addition, he says the prison system benefits corporations through outsourcing as the inmates are \"slowly becoming a source of low-wage labor for some US corporations\". Both through privatization and outsourcing, Campbell argues, the penal state reflects neoliberalism. Campbell also argues that while neoliberalism in the United States established a penal state for the poor, it also put into place a debtor state for the middle class and that \"both have had perverse effects on their respective targets: increasing rates of incarceration among the lower class and increasing rates of indebtedness—and recently home foreclosure—among the middle class\"-\n\nDavid McNally, Professor of Political Science at York University, argues that while expenditures on social welfare programs have been cut, expenditures on prison construction have increased significantly during the neoliberal era, with California having \"the largest prison-building program in the history of the world\". The scholar Bernard Harcourt contends the neoliberal concept that the state is inept when it comes to economic regulation, but efficient in policing and punishing \"has facilitated the slide to mass incarceration. Both Wacquant and Harcourt refer to this phenomenon as \"Neoliberal Penality\".\n\nThe effect of neoliberalism on global health, particularly the aspect of international aid, involves key players such as non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank. According to James Pfeiffer, neoliberal emphasis has been placed on free markets and privatization which has been tied to the \"new policy agenda\" in which NGOs are seen as being able to provide better social welfare than governments. International NGOs have been promoted to fill holes in public services created by the World Bank and IMF through their promotion of Structural Adjustment Programs (SAPs) which reduce government health spending and which Pfeiffer criticized as unsustainable. The reduced health spending and the gain of the public health sector by NGOs causes the local health system to become fragmented, undermines local control of health programs and contributes to local social inequality between NGO workers and local individuals.\n\nIn 2016, researchers for the IMF released a paper entitled \"Neoliberalism: Oversold?\", which stated: There is much to cheer in the neoliberal agenda. The expansion of global trade has rescued millions from abject poverty. Foreign direct investment has often been a way to transfer technology and know-how to developing economies. Privatization of state-owned enterprises has in many instances led to more efficient provision of services and lowered the fiscal burden on governments.\nHowever, it was also critical of some neoliberal policies, such as freedom of capital and fiscal consolidation for \"increasing inequality, in turn jeopardizing durable expansion\". The authors also note that some neoliberal policies are to blame for financial crises around the world growing bigger and more damaging. The report contends the implementation of neoliberal policies by economic and political elites has led to \"three disquieting conclusions\":\n\nWriting in \"The Guardian\", Stephen Metcalf posits that the IMF paper helps \"put to rest the idea that the word is nothing more than a political slur, or a term without any analytic power\".\n\nThe IMF has itself been criticized for its neoliberal policies. Rajesh Makwana writes that \"the World Bank and IMF, are major exponents of the neoliberal agenda\". Sheldon Richman, editor of the libertarian journal \"The Freeman\", also sees the IMF imposing \"corporatist-flavored 'neoliberalism' on the troubled countries of the world\". The policies of spending cuts coupled with tax increases give \"real market reform a bad name and set back the cause of genuine liberalism\". Paternalistic supranational bureaucrats foster \"long-term dependency, perpetual indebtedness, moral hazard, and politicization, while discrediting market reform and forestalling revolutionary liberal change\".\n\nRowden wrote that the IMF's monetarist approach towards prioritising price stability (low inflation) and fiscal restraint (low budget deficits) was unnecessarily restrictive and has prevented developing countries from scaling up long-term investment in public health infrastructure, resulting in chronically underfunded public health systems, demoralising working conditions that have fueled a \"brain drain\" of medical personnel and the undermining of public health and the fight against HIV/AIDS in developing countries.\n\nThe implementation of neoliberal policies and the acceptance of neoliberal economic theories in the 1970s are seen by some academics as the root of financialization, with the financial crisis of 2007–2008 as one of the ultimate results.\n\nNicolas Firzli has argued that the rise of neoliberalism eroded the post-war consensus and Eisenhower-era Republican centrism that had resulted in the massive allocation of public capital to large-scale infrastructure projects throughout the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s in both Western Europe and North America: \"In the pre-Reagan era, infrastructure was an apolitical, positively connoted, technocratic term shared by mainstream economists and policy makers […] including President Eisenhower, a praetorian Republican leader who had championed investment in the Interstate Highway System, America’s national road grid […] But Reagan, Thatcher, Delors and their many admirers amongst Clintonian, ‘New Labour’ and EU Social-Democrat decision makers in Brussels sought to dismantle the generous state subsidies for social infrastructure and public transportation across the United States, Britain and the European Union\".\n\nFollowing Brexit, the 2016 United States presidential election and the progressive emergence of a new kind of \"self-seeking capitalism\" (\"Trumponomics\") moving away to some extent from the neoliberal orthodoxies of the past, we may witness a \"massive increase in infrastructure investment\" in the United States, Britain and other advanced economies: With the victory of Donald J. Trump on November 8, 2016, the 'neoliberal-neoconservative' policy consensus that had crystalized in 1979–1980 (Deng Xiaoping's visit to the United States, election of Reagan and Thatcher) finally came to an end [...] The deliberate neglect of America's creaking infrastructure assets (notably public transportation and water sanitation) from the early 1980s on eventually fueled a widespread popular discontent that came back to haunt both Hillary Clinton and the Republican establishment. Donald Trump was quick to seize on the issue to make a broader slap against the \"laissez-faire\" complacency of the federal government.\n\nOthers such as Catherine Rottenberg do not see Trump's victory as an end to neoliberalism, but rather a new phase of it.\n\nMark Arthur has written that the influence of neoliberalism has given rise to an \"anti-corporatist\" movement in opposition to it. This \"anti-corporatist\" movement is articulated around the need to re-claim the power that corporations and global institutions have stripped governments of. He says that Adam Smith's \"rules for mindful markets\" served as a basis for the anti-corporate movement, \"following government's failure to restrain corporations from hurting or disturbing the happiness of the neighbor [Smith]\".\n\nNicolas Firzli has argued that the neoliberal era was essentially defined by \"the economic ideas of Milton Friedman, who wrote that 'if anything is certain to destroy our free society, to undermine its very foundation, it would be a widespread acceptance by management of social responsibilities in some sense other than to make as much money as possible. This is a fundamentally subversive doctrine'\". Firzli insists that prudent, fiduciary-driven long-term investors cannot ignore the environmental, social and corporate governance consequences of actions taken by the CEOs of the companies whose shares they hold as \"the long-dominant Friedman stance is becoming culturally unacceptable and financially costly in the boardrooms of pension funds and industrial firms in Europe and North America\".\n\nCounterpoints to neoliberalism:\nAmerican scholar and cultural critic Henry Giroux alleges neoliberalism holds that market forces should organize every facet of society, including economic and social life; and promotes a social Darwinist ethic which elevates self-interest over social needs.\n\nAccording to the economists Howell and Diallo, neoliberal policies have contributed to a United States economy in which 30% of workers earn low wages (less than two-thirds the median wage for full-time workers) and 35% of the labor force is underemployed as only 40% of the working-age population in the country is adequately employed.\n\nThe Center for Economic Policy Research's (CEPR) Dean Baker (2006) argued that the driving force behind rising inequality in the United States has been a series of deliberate, neoliberal policy choices including anti-inflationary bias, anti-unionism and profiteering in the health industry. However, countries have applied neoliberal policies at varying levels of intensity—for example, the OECD has calculated that only 6% of Swedish workers are beset with wages it considers low and that Swedish wages are overall lower. Others argue that Sweden's adoption of neoliberal reforms, in particular the privatization of public services and reduced state benefits, has resulted in income inequality growing faster in Sweden than any other OECD nation.\n\nThe rise of anti-austerity parties in Europe and SYRIZA's victory in the Greek legislative elections of January 2015 have some proclaiming \"the end of neoliberalism\".\n\nKristen R. Ghodsee, ethnographer and Professor of Russian and East European Studies at the University of Pennsylvania, asserts that the triumphalist attitudes of Western powers at the end of the Cold War and the fixation with linking all leftist political ideals with the excesses of Stalinism, permitted neoliberal, free market capitalism to fill the void, which undermined democratic institutions and reforms, leaving a trail of economic misery, unemployment and rising inequality throughout the former Eastern Bloc and much of the West in the following decades that has fueled the resurgence of extremist nationalisms in both the former and the latter. In addition, her research shows that widespread discontent with neoliberal capitalism has also led to a \"red nostalgia\" (Nostalgia for the Soviet Union, Ostalgie, Yugo-nostalgia) in much of the former Communist bloc, noting that \"the political freedoms that came with democracy were packaged with the worst type of unregulated, free market capitalism, which completely destabilized the rhythms of everyday life and brought crime, corruption and chaos where there had once been a comfortable predictability.\"\n\nRuth J Blakeley, Professor of Politics and International Relations at the University of Sheffield, accuses the United States and its allies of fomenting state terrorism and mass killings during the Cold War as a means to buttress and promote the expansion of capitalism and neoliberalism in the developing world. As an example of this, Blakeley says the case of Indonesia demonstrates that the U.S. and Great Britain put the interests of capitalist elites over the human rights of hundreds of thousands of Indonesians by supporting the Indonesian Army as it waged a campaign of mass killings which resulted in the wholesale annihilation of the Communist Party of Indonesia and its civilian supporters. Historian Bradley R. Simpson posits that this campaign of mass killings was \"an essential building block of the neoliberal policies that the West would attempt to impose on Indonesia after Sukarno's ouster.\"\n\nIn Latin America, the \"pink tide\" that swept leftist governments into power at the turn of the millennium can be seen as a reaction against neoliberal hegemony and the notion that \"there is no alternative\" (TINA) to the Washington Consensus.\n\nNotable critics of neoliberalism in theory or practice include economists Joseph Stiglitz, Amartya Sen, Michael Hudson, Robert Pollin, Julie Matthaei and Richard D. Wolff; linguist Noam Chomsky; geographer and anthropologist David Harvey; Slovenian continental philosopher Slavoj Žižek, political activist and public intellectual Cornel West; Marxist feminist Gail Dines; author, activist and filmmaker Naomi Klein; journalist and environmental activist George Monbiot; Belgian psychologist Paul Verhaeghe; journalist and activist Chris Hedges; and the alter-globalization movement in general, including groups such as ATTAC. Critics of neoliberalism argue that not only is neoliberalism's critique of socialism (as unfreedom) wrong, but neoliberalism cannot deliver the liberty that is supposed to be one of its strong points.\n\nIn protest against neoliberal globalization, South Korean farmer and former president of the Korean Advanced Farmers Federation Lee Kyung-hae committed suicide by stabbing himself in the heart during a meeting of the WTO in Cancun, Mexico in 2003. He was protesting against the decision of the South Korean government to reduce subsidies to farmers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9557092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9557092", "title": "New Zealand Cavaliers", "text": "New Zealand Cavaliers\n\nThe Cavaliers was the name given to an unofficial New Zealand rugby union team which toured South Africa in 1986, playing the Springbok rugby team.\n\nAfter the intensely controversial 1981 South African tour of New Zealand, which had provoked nationwide protest and worldwide condemnation, the official All Black tour planned for 1985 was cancelled due to a legal ruling that it would be incompatible with the NZRFU's legally stated purpose: \"...the fostering and encouragement of the game of rugby...\"\n\nOf the 30 players who had been selected for the 1985 tour, only David Kirk and John Kirwan did not join the Cavaliers. The rebel team were widely believed to have received large secret payments—a controversial issue at a time when rugby union was still supposedly an amateur sport.\n\nThe Cavaliers were coached by Colin Meads, managed by Ian Kirkpatrick and captained by Andy Dalton and won just one of the four matches against South Africa, although they won seven of their eight other games on the tour. Dalton, however suffered a broken jaw in the second match of the tour against Northern Transvaal and played no more rugby that season, Jock Hobbs assumed the captaincy duties for the test matches against the Springboks while Andy Haden did the same for the midweek matches.\n\nIt was widely condemned for touring apartheid South Africa, and very controversial within New Zealand - and there were no future rugby contacts until the South African apartheid regime ended.\n\nThe players found that support for their actions was far less than they had expected. On their return, the NZRFU barred all the players from participating in the next two All Black tests, and instead selected a new group of players. Most of these replacement players were younger, and were quickly dubbed the \"Baby Blacks\". Those new All Blacks went on to form the basis of one of the most successful periods in All Black rugby, which resulted in many Cavalier players struggling to get their places back.\n\nNot being able to play with the traditional jersey, the team presented on the field with a black uniform, relieved with bands of gold in honour of the \"tour sponsor\", the South African Yellow Pages, who also covered the stay expenses for the team. The emblem consisted of a gold background with a green oval in which an upright silver fern accompanied by a Springbok appeared.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24690613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24690613", "title": "Norwegian Association of Local and Regional Authorities", "text": "Norwegian Association of Local and Regional Authorities\n\nThe Norwegian Association of Local and Regional Authorities () is an employers' organisation in Norway.\n\nIt was founded in 1972 as a merger between the Union of Norwegian Cities (\"Norges Byforbund\", founded in 1903) and the Norwegian Association of Rural Municipalities (\"Norges Herredsforbund\", founded in 1923). The two entities were also merged between 1942 and 1945, during the German occupation of Norway. It changed its name from \"Norske Kommuners Sentralforbund\" to \"Kommunenes Sentralforbund\" in 1988, and to just \"KS\" in 2004.\n\nThe current director general is Gunn Marit Helgesen. KS' President Gunn Marit Helgesen was re-elected at the KS congress February 17, together with deputies Mette Gundersen and Bjørn Arild Gram. Ms. Helgesen has been the KS President since 2012 and member of the executive board since 2008.\n\nSeven out of 14 representatives are new to the Executive Board. The Norwegian Green Party is for the first time represented by a representative, while the Socialist Left Party lost its representation. The Centre Party has received three representatives on the new Executive Board, compared to two in previous periods. The Conservative Party had their number of representatives from three to two, and The Labour Party now holds five representatives.\n\nThe Executive Board's headquarters are located in Vika, Oslo.\n\n"}
{"id": "19122616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19122616", "title": "Nova Scotia Voice of Women", "text": "Nova Scotia Voice of Women\n\nThe Nova Scotia Voice of Women for Peace (NSVOW) is an active branch of the Canadian Voice of Women for Peace (VOW). Established in 1960, VOW is a local, national and international feminist Non Governmental Organization (NGO) composed of diverse women with consultative status at the United Nations Economic & Social Council (ECOSOC). For almost 50 years, VOW has advocated a world without war. The organization's mandate is to \"provide a means for women to promote world peace and justice, through education of themselves and others to take an equal part in the democratic process of decision making; and to cooperate with women throughout the world to create the mutual respect and understanding necessary for the peaceful resolution of international conflict.\"\n\nThe Canadian Voice of Women began in 1960 as a popular social movement opposed to nuclear weapons. Muriel Duckworth and Peggy Hope-Simpson were among the founding members of the Nova Scotia Chapter. Because of concerns raised by the Cold War, the time was ripe for ordinary women to become politically active. As Muriel herself explains it:\nThe Voice of Women grew out of fear of nuclear testing in the 1950s. Around the country, there were already women on the verge of organizing a women's peace group and when it happened, women poured into the membership, because it was such a dangerous time. The women who had come here as war brides were just beside themselves because they couldn't bear the thought of another war.\n\nAmong other activities, NSVOW holds a monthly vigil in Halifax, Canada, and co-hosts an annual Peace Day at the World Peace Pavilion in Dartmouth, NS, Canada on August 6, to commemorate the tragedy in Hiroshima. Their current campaign includes encouraging Nova Scotia municipalities to join Mayors For Peace.\n\n"}
{"id": "1684895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1684895", "title": "Nutritional yeast", "text": "Nutritional yeast\n\nNutritional yeast is a deactivated yeast, often a strain of \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\", which is sold commercially as a food product. It is sold in the form of flakes or as a yellow powder and can be found in the bulk aisle of most natural food stores. It is popular with vegans and vegetarians and may be used as an ingredient in recipes or as a condiment.\n\nIt is a significant source of some B-complex vitamins and contains trace amounts of several other vitamins and minerals. Sometimes nutritional yeast is fortified with vitamin B.\n\nNutritional yeast has a strong flavor that is described as nutty, cheesy, or creamy, which makes it popular as an ingredient in cheese substitutes. It is often used by vegans in place of cheese, for example in mashed and fried potatoes, in scrambled tofu, or as a topping for popcorn.\n\nIn Australia, it is sometimes sold as \"savoury yeast flakes.\" In New Zealand, it has long been known as Brufax. In the United States, it is sometimes referred to as \"hippie dust\", \"nooch\" or \"yeshi\", an Amharic name meaning \"for a thousand\". Though \"nutritional yeast\" usually refers to commercial products, inadequately fed prisoners of war have used \"home-grown\" yeast to prevent vitamin deficiency.\nNutritional yeast is different from yeast extract, which has a very strong flavour and comes in the form of a dark brown paste.\n\nNutritional yeast is produced by culturing a yeast in a nutrient medium for several days. The primary ingredient in the growth medium is glucose, often from either sugarcane or beet molasses. When the yeast is ready, it is deactivated with heat and then harvested, washed, dried and packaged. The species of yeast used is often a strain of \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\". The strains are cultured and selected for desirable characteristics and often exhibit a different phenotype from strains of \"S. cerevisiae\" used in baking and brewing.\n\nAcetaldehyde is the hazardous air pollutant emitted in the largest quantities from the manufacturing of nutritional yeast.\n\nNutritional values for nutritional yeast vary from one manufacturer to another. On average, two tablespoons (about 30 ml) provides 60 calories with 5 g of carbohydrates (four grams of which is fiber). A serving also provides 9 g of protein and is a complete protein, providing all nine amino acids the human body cannot produce. While fortified and unfortified nutritional yeast both provide iron, the fortified yeast provides 20 percent of the recommended daily value, while unfortified yeast provides only 5 percent. Unfortified nutritional yeast provides from 35 to 100 percent of vitamins B1 and B2.\n\nBecause nutritional yeast is often used by vegans, who need to supplement their diets with vitamin B, there has been confusion about the source of the B in nutritional yeast. Yeast cannot produce B, which is only naturally produced by some bacteria. Some brands of nutritional yeast, though not all, are fortified with vitamin B. When fortified, the vitamin B (commonly cyanocobalamin) is produced separately and then added to the yeast.\n\nAlthough some species of bacteria that can produce B could potentially grow along with \"S. cerevisiae\" in the wild, commercially produced nutritional yeast is grown in controlled conditions that would normally not allow those bacteria to grow. Therefore, nutritional yeast is not a reliable source of B unless it is fortified.\n\nAll inactive yeast contains a certain amount of glutamic acid because when the yeast cells are killed, the proteins that compose the cell walls begin to degrade, breaking down into the amino acids that originally formed the proteins. Glutamic acid is a naturally occurring amino acid in all yeast cells, as well as in vegetables, fungi, and animals, and is commonly used as a flavor enhancer in cooking in its sodium salt form, monosodium glutamate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40727083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40727083", "title": "Protocol of Kapshtica", "text": "Protocol of Kapshtica\n\nProtocol of Kapshtica also known as Kapshtica Protocol, or Kapshtica Agreement, was an agreement between Albanian and Greek representatives signed in the border town of Kapshticë on 28 May 1920. Under this agreement both sides accepted the pre-World War I Greek-Albanian border status, as well as a number of provisions for the protection of the local Greek population of Korçë District and its educational and religious rights.\n\nDuring World War I, Greece was one of seven countries to occupy Albania, filling the vacuum left after the collapse of Ottoman Empire in the Balkans during the Balkan Wars. Greece claimed parts of southern Albania as \"Northern Epirus\", since a sizeable Greek minority lived there. In 1915, Greek positions were occupied by Italian troops in Gjirokastër and French troops in Korçë.\n\nAfter the disestablishment of the Autonomous Albanian Republic of Korçë, French troops left the area which incorporated in the newly created Albanian state, and the Paris Peace Conference reaffirmed the borders. Nevertheless, tensions were present in that part of Albanian-Greek border.\n\nFrench troops stayed in Korçë until May 24, 1920. Two days later, on May 26, 1920, after a big rally held at Korçë, and later in Bilisht and Pogradec, Albanians demanded the incorporation of former Autonomous Albanian Republic of Korçë into the Albanian state, informing the Tirana government via local representatives there about the tense situation in Korçë, especially on the border with Greece. Greek government was waiting for an approval from the British side and would not take any military action in southern Albania without their consent. Considering (allegedly) the recent oil discoveries, and the negotiation for Thrace and Dodecanese Islands taking place at that time, the British shifted their positioning towards the conservation of the actual border and support to the Albanian state, thus the only way left were the negotiations. After a quick meeting, made in Florina between the Greek and Albanian representatives, it was decided on 28 May 1920 to proceed with the meeting in Kapshticë where the agreement was signed and was known as \"Kapshtica Protocol\", or \"Albanian-Greek Protocol of Kopshtica\", which would remain in force until the issue would be resolved by the Peace Conference. The head of delegations were Josif Koçi for the Albanian side and Achilleas Kalevras for the Greek side. This would be the very first protocol signed between Albania and any foreign country.\n\nBoth parts declared their friendly relations. The Albanian side proclaimed that it will respect the rights of the Greek communities of the region, including the operation of Greek schools and churches.\n\nFrom the strategic point of view, this treaty was important for the Albanian state. Not only the southeastern border was temporarily assured, but the Albanian side could gather forces and concentrate on western areas of Vlorë, occupied by the Italians, which would finalize with the Vlora War.\n\nAfter the Italian-Albanian reconciliation, in August 1920, the Albanian side refused to recognize the validity of the Protocol of Kapshtica. Latter, in 1921 it declared to the League of Nations that it will respect the rights of the Greek population. However, a Greek minority was recognized only around Gjirokastër, in southwest Albania.\n\n"}
{"id": "12563114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12563114", "title": "Provisional government of Israel", "text": "Provisional government of Israel\n\nThe provisional government of Israel (, translit. \"HaMemshela HaZmanit\") was the temporary cabinet which governed the Jewish community in Mandatory Palestine, and later the newly established State of Israel, until the formation of the first government in March 1949 following the first Knesset elections in January that year.\n\nWith the British Mandate of Palestine scheduled to come to an end on 15 May 1948, the governing body of the Jewish community, the Jewish National Council (JNC), on 2 March 1948 began work on organization of a Jewish provisional government. On 12 April 1948 it formed the Minhelet HaAm (, lit. \"People's Administration\"), all of its members being drawn from Moetzet HaAm (\"People's Council\"), the temporary legislative body set up at the same time. The departmental structure of the JNC served as a basis for the interim government ministries.\n\nOn 12 May, Minhelet HaAm convened to vote on whether to declare independence. Three of the thirteen members were missing, with Yehuda Leib Maimon and Yitzhak Gruenbaum being stuck in Jerusalem, whilst Yitzhak-Meir Levin was in the United States. The meeting started at 1:45 in the afternoon and ended after midnight. The decision was between accepting the American proposal for a truce, or declaring independence. The latter option was put to a vote, with six of the ten members present supporting it:\n\n\nOn 14 May, the day Israel declared independence, Minhelet HaAm became the Provisional government, whilst Moetzet HaAm became the Provisional State Council. The Provisional government was promptly recognised by the United States as the \"de facto\" authority of Israel, followed by Iran (which had voted against the UN partition plan), Guatemala, Iceland, Nicaragua, Romania, and Uruguay. The Soviet Union granted official recognition to Israel on 17 May 1948, followed by Poland, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, Ireland, and South Africa. The United States extended \"de jure\" recognition after the first Israeli election, on 31 January 1949.\n\n"}
{"id": "3223803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3223803", "title": "Queer nationalism", "text": "Queer nationalism\n\nQueer nationalism is a phenomenon related both to the gay and lesbian liberation movement and nationalism. Adherents of this movement support the notion that the LGBT community forms a distinct people due to their unique culture and customs.\n\nThe homophobic aspect of many cultures has led to increasing frustration and a wish to separate from a perceived hostile heterosexual majority. These feelings found their expression in 1990 with the establishment of Queer Nation, a radical organisation best known for its slogan \"We're here. We're queer. Get used to it\".\n\nIn 1969, gay activist Don Jackson from California proposed to take over Alpine County, California—a project also known as Stonewall Nation.\n\nThe first attempt to make territorial claims was made in 2004 by a group of Australian gay activists who declared the tiny islands of Cato Reef to be the Gay and Lesbian Kingdom of the Coral Sea Islands and Dale Parker Anderson to be the Emperor. Following the 2005 disagreements within the group, the Gay and Lesbian Commonwealth Kingdom and Unified Gay Tribe have cancelled their affiliation to Anderson. Some other groups with similar causes exist, e.g. the Gay Homeland Foundation and a micronation called Gay Parallel Republic.\n\nIn 2007, Garrett Graham published a plan and constitution for a gay state, connected to Theodor Herzl's Jewish state (\"Herzl's words, messages and concepts live on in [...] The Gay State\").\n\nThe gay rights activist group The Pink Panthers Movement (PPM) in Denver, Colorado as well as their charters/chapters throughout the United States including a large group located in Fresno, California have identified themselves not only as radical and militant, but as queer nationalists. These formed several small parties throughout the United States and Canada that stand in solidarity only to those that identify as supporters of the old Queer Nation.\n\nAn advanced analysis was published 1996 by Brian Walker. In his article \"Social Movements as Nationalisms, or, On the Very Idea of a Queer Nation\", Walker points out that several features of the nationalistic creation of cultural identity apply to the LGBT national movement as well. Walker classifies queer nationalism as one of the new cultural forms of nationalism which are distinct from the old ethnic and religious types of nationalism and concludes that the gay and lesbian community fulfils many criteria to be regarded as a people for thw following reasons:\n\nWalker regards modern communication technologies such as the Internet as offering a chance for the LGBT community to further integrate as a non-territorial nation.\n\nThis thesis is supported by Paul Treanor, who considers an alternative (non-nationalist) world order possible. In this context, Treanor mentions the LGBT community as a \"non-territorial nationalist movement\".\n\nWill Kymlicka acknowledges that gays have developed a group identity and group culture similar to those of ethnocultural groups, but he argues in favor of integration instead of separatism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "679252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=679252", "title": "Ralph Bunche Park", "text": "Ralph Bunche Park\n\nRalph Bunche Park is a small municipal public park in the Turtle Bay neighborhood of New York City, on First Avenue between 42nd and 43rd Streets. It was named in 1979 for Ralph Bunche, the first African-American to win the Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nThe park is across First Avenue from the United Nations headquarters. (This stretch of First Avenue is also known as \"United Nations Plaza\".) The granite staircase in the park's northwest corner leads to 43rd Street and the Tudor City apartments. It was built and dedicated in 1948 during construction of the U.N. headquarters and has the famous quotation from Isaiah 2:4: \"They shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more\" incised into its wall. Known as the Isaiah Wall, it was rededicated in 1975 and had the name \"Isaiah\" added under the final word. In 1981 the staircase was named the Sharansky Steps in honor of Soviet dissident Natan Sharansky.\n\nIn the plaza in front of the Isaiah Wall is \"Peace Form One\", a stainless-steel obelisk 50 feet (15 m) high, erected in 1980. The sculptor, Daniel LaRue Johnson (b. 1938), was a personal friend of Bunche, and dedicated the sculpture to Bunche, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1950.\n\nNear the southern end of the park is a plaque, dedicated in 1990, which commemorates civil rights leader Bayard Rustin.\n\nBecause of its proximity to the United Nations, the peace theme of the Isaiah Wall and \"Peace Form One\", and Bunche's career as a peacemaker, the park is a popular site for demonstrations and rallies concerning peace and other international issues. In 1985 the park was dedicated as New York City's first Peace Park. The park covers less than a quarter of an acre (1,000 m²), however, so it cannot accommodate major gatherings.\n"}
{"id": "3875233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3875233", "title": "Random 1", "text": "Random 1\n\nRandom 1 is a documentary-style reality television series that aired from November 2005 to January 2006 on the A&E cable network. In each episode, hosts John Chester and Andre Miller travel from town to town, in Miller's real-life, rickety pickup truck \"Jackie\", searching for total strangers who are looking to have their lives changed. However, unlike other such \"do-gooder\" shows, Chester and Miller employ an all-shapes-and-sizes approach, with assignments ranging from a new cell phone to a week in rehab to a new prosthetic leg. The show ran for one season, and premiered to favorable reviews.\n\nThe crew abides by a set of rules: the person being helped must be a stranger, the mission must be completed in one day, and no money may be spent (as Chester explains in Episode 4, \"Out Of The Woods\", this is because money distances a philanthropist from the person he or she is trying to help. All three of these rules were eventually broken in the course of the season, however). In order to free up John and Andre to get to know the subject of a given episode, they are aided by three producers in an internet-ready mobile RV. Capella Fahoome, Jim Lefter, and Molly Schrek, once a subject has been decided on, go to their laptops and cell phones, searching for local businesses or individuals willing to help. Typically, the \"street team\" and the \"RV team\" do not interact except over the phone, although this policy, too, has had its exceptions.\n\nAlthough \"Random 1\" is no longer on the air, the A&E network granted the team permission to present individual episodes as webcasts, which may be viewed on the show's website. DVD sets of the show have yet to be mass-produced, but individual episodes may be purchased directly from A&E.\n\nAs of May 24, 2007, there was no planned DVD release of the show itself, however, a feature film adaptation featuring Mark and Normand is touring the festival circuit, having premiered at South By Southwest. It combines footage from episodes 4 and 10, along with behind-the-scenes footage of the show, and new footage of Mark and Normand's post-\"Random 1\" experiences. It is entitled \"Lost In Woonsocket\".\n\n\nIn Baltimore, John and Andre meet Bruce, a homeless, one-legged former construction worker, who is struggling to keep his life together, begging for change while hobbling around on a very outdated prosthetic limb. The crew attempts to find a prosthetic company willing to donate a $22,000 prosthetic leg. The Bruce story is intertwined with the story of Kim, from Stamford, Connecticut, a young woman with a comfortable job who wants to do more with her life. The crew searches for a non-profit agency interested in hiring Kim.\n\nReportedly filmed on a \"dress rehearsal\" day at the very beginning of production, this episode concerns Cleveland and Gary, an asthmatic builder in need of a new cell phone, and a recovering heroin addict, respectively. Inspired by John and Andre's life philosophy, Cleveland quits his job as the cameras roll, and shortly thereafter has an asthma attack on the side of the road. In the meantime, and very much to John's chagrin, Andre has added heroin addict Gary to the mix, packing the four men into Jackie's cab like sardines. As though all this were not enough, it turns out Cleveland and Gary have more in common than they would have guessed.\n\nIn Baltimore, John and Andre meet Amber, a former stripper, and her rodentine boyfriend. Amber wants to become a model, and the crew sets about finding a model agency that will meet with her, although her domineering boyfriend seems visibly opposed to the idea. The episode is intertwined with the story of Jan, a Huntington, West Virginia native, who plays his mostly-broken keyboard on the street for money. The crew sets about finding him a place that will repair his keyboard. Though the keyboard was beyond repair, the gentlemen who promised to repair it gave him a new keyboard instead.\n\nIn Woonsocket, Rhode Island, John and Andre encounter Mark, a homeless alcoholic living in a tent in the woods. Mark has attempted to go to detox in the past, but a $250 deductible is standing in the way. As darkness falls, the crew is faced with the choice of breaking one of its cardinal rules, by spending its own money, a decision which splits the group in two, and causes the mild-mannered Molly to use an unexpected swear word. \n\nAdditionally, the crew meets Mark's tentmate Normand, who seems to be in even worse shape than Mark, and who at the time is completely inebriated. John and Andre worry that Normand may seduce Mark back to the woods. Both John and Andre are concerned about whether Mark will indeed go through with detox, although the ordinarily bubbly Andre is especially pessimistic.\n\nPortions of this episode appear in \"Random 1\"'s feature film \"Lost In Woonsocket\", which has been shown at film festivals.\n\nWhile traveling through New Rochelle, New York, the team meets Stephen, an out-of-work chef, about to be evicted from his home. He is especially concerned about how this will impact his daughter, Asia, who he dotes on. The RV crew scrambles to line up interviews with restaurants in the area, although it begins to look as though he will have no choice but to leave his apartment.\n\nThe team revisited Stephen later that year, the results of which make up the last five minutes of the episode.\n\nEasily the strangest episode of the season, John and Andre meet John, a conniving old man with breathing problems (who, despite this, continues to smoke constantly), who needs a stronger air conditioner. Along the way, they meet Erin, who, like Amber, wants to be a model. The RV team is flabbergasted at the difficulty of keeping New Yorkers on the phone long enough to make their pitch, and Erin appears as though she might flake out and not show up at all the next morning. The episode is particularly noteworthy for its inclusion of eccentric modeling guru Candy Ford.\n\nThis episode concerns Tom and Mary, a Baltimore couple struggling to open a bar, and Kevin, a young man from Providence, Rhode Island with a stuttering problem, who wants to go on his first date. Kevin is ready to go, but his parents are not so excited.\n\nJohn and Andre meet Kim, a single mother in Louisville, Kentucky, who is struggling to make ends meet and needs to fix her dryer. The episode is intertwined with the story of Mike, who is dangerously overweight and looking to get his life back on track.\n\nThis episode involves Terrence, an Akron, Ohio native with a fantastic singing voice who was fleeced by a shady producer. We also meet West Virginia native and spousal abuse survivor Robyn, who is looking to get a criminal law degree, but has so far not made it through the application process. The team attempts to get them moving in the right direction.\n\nWhile watching an episode of \"Dog The Bounty Hunter\", a man named Timothy saw a commercial for Random 1, and recognized a man he had not talked to in thirteen years—Normand, from Episode 4, his estranged father. He contacted the Random 1 team, and with his help they, along with a now-sober Mark, returned to Woonsocket, Rhode Island to search for Normand. \n\nPortions of this episode appear in \"Random 1\"'s feature film \"Lost In Woonsocket\", which has been being shown at film festivals.\nThe project began in 1996 when documentary filmmaker John Chester joined fitness trainer Andre Miller to seek out strangers for assistance; starting in 1999, the pair began documenting their experiences on film. \n\nIn 2001, three volunteer producers joined the project, initially working out of a basement office. In 2004, the group acquired a customized RV donated by the manufacturer for use as a mobile support center.\n\nA&E began airing the group's efforts as a 10-episode series in November 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2865153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2865153", "title": "Ronald Inglehart", "text": "Ronald Inglehart\n\nRonald F. Inglehart (born September 5, 1934) is a political scientist and professor emeritus at the University of Michigan. He is director of the World Values Survey, a global network of social scientists who have carried out representative national surveys of the publics of over 80 societies on all six inhabited continents, containing 90 percent of the world's population. The first wave of surveys for this project was carried out in 1981 and the latest wave was completed in 2014. Since 2010 Inglehart has also been co-director of the Laboratory for Comparative Social Research at the National Research University - Higher School of Economics in Moscow and St Petersburg. This laboratory has carried out surveys in Russia and eight ex-Soviet countries and is training PhD-level students in quantitative cross-national research methods.\n\nIn the seventies Inglehart began developing an influential theory of Generational Replacement causing intergenerational value change from materialist to post-materialist values that helped shape the Eurobarometer Surveys, the World Values Surveys and other cross-national survey projects. Building on this work, he subsequently developed a revised version of Modernization theory, Evolutionary Modernization Theory, which argues that economic development, welfare state institutions and the long peace between major powers since 1945, are reshaping human motivations in ways that have important implications concerning gender roles, sexual norms, the role of religion, economic behavior and the spread of democracy.\n\nRonald Inglehart's numerous writings have become extremely influential, with translations published in German, Italian, Spanish, French, Swedish, Brazilian Portuguese, Russian, Polish, Croatian, Japanese, Chinese, Vietnamese, Korean, Persian, Urdu and Indonesian. Brief descriptions of some of his most influential works include:\n\nIn \"The Silent Revolution\" (1977) Inglehart discovered a major intergenerational shift in the values of the populations of advanced industrial societies. In his 1990 book \"Culture Shift in Advanced Industrial Society\" Inglehart uses a large body of time-series survey data from twenty-six nations gathered from 1970 through 1988 to analyze the cultural changes that are occurring as younger generations gradually replace older ones in the adult population. These changes have far-reaching political implications, and they seem to be transforming the economic growth rates of societies and the kind of economic development that is pursued. Economic, technological, and sociopolitical changes have been changing the cultures of advanced industrial societies during the past several decades. Inglehart examines changes in religious beliefs, work motivation, political conflict, attitudes toward children and families, and attitudes toward divorce, abortion, and homosexuality.\n\n\"Culture Shift in Advanced Industrial Society\" (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1990). Economic, technological, and sociopolitical changes have been transforming the cultures of advanced industrial societies in profoundly important ways during the past few decades. This ambitious work examines changes in religious beliefs, in motives for work, in the issues that give rise to political conflict, in the importance people attach to having children and families, and in attitudes toward divorce, abortion, and homosexuality. Ronald Inglehart's earlier book, The Silent Revolution (Princeton, 1977), broke new ground by discovering a major intergenerational shift in the values of the populations of advanced industrial societies. This new volume demonstrates that this value shift is part of a much broader process of cultural change that is gradually transforming political, economic, and social life in these societies.\nInglehart uses a massive body of time-series survey data from twenty-six nations, gathered from 1970 through 1988, to analyze the cultural changes that are occurring as younger generations gradually replace older ones in the adult population. These changes have far-reaching political implications, and they seem to be transforming the economic growth rates of societies and the kind of economic development that is pursued.\n\nIn \"Modernization and Postmodernization\" (1997) Inglehart argued that economic development, cultural change, and political change go together in coherent and, to some extent, predictable patterns. Inglehart theorised that industrialization leads to related changes such as mass mobilization and diminishing differences in gender roles. Changes in worldviews seem to reflect changes in the economic and political environment, but take place with a generational time lag. Following industrialization, advanced industrial society leads to a basic shift in values, de-emphasizing instrumental rationality. Postmodern values then bring new societal changes, including democratic political institutions and the decline of state socialist regimes.\n\nWritten with Pippa Norris, \"Rising Tide: Gender Equality and Cultural Change Around the World\" (New York and Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2003) examines how the twentieth century gave rise to profound changes in traditional sex roles. This study reveals how modernization has changed cultural attitudes towards gender equality and analyzes the political consequences. It systematically compares attitudes towards gender equality worldwide, comparing almost 70 nations, ranging from rich to poor, agrarian to postindustrial. This volume is essential reading to gain a better understanding of issues in comparative politics, public opinion, political behavior, development and sociology.\n\nInglehart's 2004 book with Pippa Norris, \"Sacred and Secular: Religion and Politics Worldwide\" reexamines the secularization thesis. This book draws on a base of new evidence generated by four waves of the World Values Survey executed from 1981 to 2001 in eighty societies, covering most of the world’s major faiths. Examining religiosity from a broader perspective and in a wider range of countries than have been done before, this book argues that religiosity persists most strongly among vulnerable populations, especially those in poorer nations and in failed states, facing personal survival-threatening risks. Exposure to physical, societal and personal risks drives religiosity. Conversely, a systematic erosion of traditional religious practices, values and beliefs may have occurred among the more prosperous strata in rich nations. But at the same time, a growing proportion of the population—in both rich and poor countries—spends time thinking about the meaning and purpose of life. It is argued that in developed countries, the established churches are losing their ability to tell people how to live their lives, but spiritual concerns, broadly defined, may be becoming increasingly important.\n\nWritten with Christian Welzel, \"Modernization, Cultural Change and Democracy: The Human Development Sequence\" (2005) demonstrates that people's basic values and beliefs are changing, in ways that affect their political, sexual, economic, and religious behavior. These changes are roughly predictable because they can be interpreted on the basis of a revised version of modernization theory presented here. Drawing on evidence from societies containing 85% of the world's population, the authors argue that modernization is a process of human development, in which economic development triggers cultural changes that make individual autonomy, gender equality, and democracy increasingly likely.\n\nWritten with Pippa Norris. In \"Cosmopolitan Communications: Cultural Diversity in a Globalized World\" (New York and Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2009) he argues that societies around the world have experienced a flood of information from diverse channels originating beyond local communities and even national borders, transmitted through the rapid expansion of cosmopolitan communications. For more than half a century, conventional interpretations, Norris and Inglehart argue, have commonly exaggerated the potential threats arising from this process. A series of fire-walls protect national cultures. This book develops a new theoretical framework for understanding cosmopolitan communications and uses it to identify the conditions under which global communications are most likely to endanger cultural diversity. The authors analyze empirical evidence from both the societal level and the individual level, examining the outlook and beliefs of people in a wide range of societies. The study draws on evidence from the World Values Survey, covering 90 societies in all major regions worldwide from 1981 to 2007. The conclusion considers the implications of their findings for cultural policies.\n\nThe book \"Cultural Evolution: People's Motivations Are Changing, and Reshaping the World\" (Cambridge University Press, 2018) is an update of the results and theories published in Inglehart's previous books. In this book, Inglehart presents what he calls \"Evolutionary modernization theory\", describing how social values and human priorities have developed through history as a consequence of increasing existential security. The presentation is based on longitudinal survey data from more than a hundred countries in the World Values Survey collected in six waves from 1981 to 2014.\nEvolutionary modernization theory holds that economic and physical insecurity elicits an authoritarian reflex leading to xenophobia, strong in-group solidarity, authoritarian politics and rigid adherence to traditional\ncultural norms. Modernization and economic development has led to a degree of security in many countries after World War II where people take survival for granted. This has led to decreasing authoritarianism and the rise of \"Postmaterialist Values\": egalitarian norms, secularization, tolerance of foreigners, gender equality, and tolerance of divorce, homosexuality, and abortion. The existential security and the egalitarian norms that develop under the feeling of security are necessary for democracy to develop. The freedom of choice in postmaterialist societies also leads to improved happiness. Inglehart now sees a backlash in terms of increasing authoritarianism, political populism, and erosion of democracy as a consequence of the decreasing economic security that follows the growing economic inequality.\n\nInglehart has received the following honors:\n\nInglehart has written more than 250 publications, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23704574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23704574", "title": "Science and Technology Select Committee", "text": "Science and Technology Select Committee\n\nThe Science and Technology Select Committee is a select committee of the House of Commons in the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe original Science and Technology Committee was abolished upon the creation of the Innovation, Universities, Science and Skills Committee on 6 November 2007. However, just 19 months later, the government announced that it was re-establishing the committee following the recommendation of the Innovation, Universities, Science and Skills Committee after the merging of the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform and the Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills in June 2009. The House of Commons approved the re-establishment of the committee on 25 June 2009. The committee was officially re-established on 1 October 2009 and has a remit to examine the work of the Government Office for Science.\n\nThe Chair and Members of the Committee since 11 September 2017 are:\n\n\nThe Committee's Chair, Norman Lamb, was announced on 12 July 2017 Members of the current 2017/18 session are:\n\nMembers in the (2014/15) session of Parliament were as follows:\n\nSource: Science and Technology Committee\n\nOccasionally, the House of Commons orders changes to be made in terms of membership of select committees, as proposed by the Committee of Selection. Such changes are shown below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57500531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57500531", "title": "Siallum Fort", "text": "Siallum Fort\n\nFort Siallum is a defensive fort in Chin State, Myanmar built during the British annexation of Chin Hills, Myanmar. The fort was built by the Chin (Sizang) in the year of 1889 and located near Voklak village in Tedim Township, Myanmar.\n\nOn 4 May 1889, The Chin (Sizang tribe) warriors and the British’s Chin Field Force fought fiercely at this Siallum Fort. A medical officer, Surgeon Captain Ferdinand Le Quesne of the Chin Field Force was awarded the Victoria Cross for his gallantry displayed in the battle.\n\nWhen the British Empire annexed Burma in 1885, Chin Hills did not fall automatically under the British colonial rule. Chin Hills at that time was independent nations and King Thibaw Min did not have the authority over Chin Hills. After the fall of Mandalay, the British then advanced to the Burma's western borders and annexed Kalay valley in 1886. From 1887, the British administration in Upper Burma started communication with the Chin tribal leaders. The British political officer, Captain F.D. Raikes and the Chin tribal leaders held several meetings. The main discussion was about establishing a trade route to link British territories i.e. Myanmar and eastern India through the Chin Hills. The Tashons Chief Pu Con Bik refused to agree to establishing a trade route. Further negotiations failed and the Chin warriors made several raids to Kalay/Kabaw Valley. At the same time, the Tashons who were the most influential and powerful tribe in the northern Chin Hills at that time harbored Prince Shwegyophyu (son of Kanaung Mintha) who was wanted by the British police for killing two British officers, namely Major J.J. Kennedy (Second Infantry Regiment of the Hyderabad Contingent) and Captain H.E. Walter Belville (Assistant Commissioner of Upper Burma) during the Chinbyit Battle.\n\nThe British administration in Burma then sent an ultimatum to the Sizang chief to deliver Khai Kam together with the captives whom he carried off. An ultimatum was also sent to the Fahlam Council to deliver the Prince Shwegyophyu and his followers. When the ultimatums were ignored by the Chin, the British force then launched an expedition known as The Chin Lushai Expedition (1888-1889). The British spent the month of November in 1888 preparing for the expedition. Brigadier-General Faunce arrived in Kanpale with a 1200 strong force and Captain Raikes, and proceeded to establish defensive positions along the valley. A levy of Military Police (later 2nd Battalion of Burma Rifle) guarded the Yaw valley against the depredations of the Southern Chins. Capt. Raikes and his assistant Mr. Hall collected intelligence about the Chin, their villages and the routes into the hills. Hills coolies were collected in Assam and sent for the expeditions. The forces for expedition were gathered at Kanpale (Stockade No.1) and Gurkha 42nd Battalion was added to the expedition.\n\nThe strategy was to first march against the northern Chin Hills of Sizang valley. There was no road to the hills at that time, therefore, a mule track had to be constructed by the British expeditionary force. By the beginning of December 1888, the mule track was completed, and led until the foot of the hill, where there they established No.2 Stockade i.e. Zawlkin (now Khai Kam Town). The road construction continued towards the hills and reached Phatzang where a rough No.3 stockade was established.\n\nOn hearing the news of the British advance, the Sizang council then sent Khai Kam of Khuasak to Tedim to meet Khaw Cin (the chief of Kamhau). The next day a Chin force consisting of 1630 [1,200 (Sizang), 400 (Kamhau) and 30 (Sukte) prepared to defend their motherland. The Tashon also gathered warriors from her powerful neighboring tribes. On 7 December 1888, the Sizang started their offensive by attacking the road constructors. On 24 December, the Sizang again attacked the road working party and killed a sepoy. On Christmas day, the combined forces of Sizang, Kamhau an Sukte attacked the working party under command of Lt. Butcher of 42 Gurkha Bn. The Sizang were in constant co-ordination with the Tashons. On 10 December 1888, the great force of Tashon made a simultaneous attack on the villages of Sihaung, Kyawywa and Kundu. At the same time, 80 Tashons warriors clashed head to head with 42nd Gurkha Light infantry led by Capt. Westmoreland. On the same day, the Sizang attacked Indin and a combined force of Sukte and Kamhau attacked the military post at Kangyi (20miles north of Kalemyo). The Chins showed their planning abilities and military capabilities in this simultaneous attack to the various British positions.\n\nThe British officers were impressed by the Chin capabilities as \"the Chins were in great force, and we now know that Tashons and Siyins (Sizang) were fighting side by side on this occasion. The Chins swooped down from the heights on to the party, which was working on a narrow spur, and attacked them from all four sides, fighting under cover of heavy undergrowth. The collies bolted and the troops fell back after holding their ground some little time. Whilst disputing every stage of our advance into their hills, the Chins showed considerable tactical ability by taking the offensive in the plains and attacking Shan villages and our posts in the rear of advancing column\".\n\nSince the Chin showed their military prowess by inflicting some losses on the invading forces, the British Army took the Chin seriously. General Sir. George White Commander-in-Chief of Burma, personally went to supervise the expedition. He arrived in Kanpale (near Kalaymyo) on 30 December 1888 and joined the expedition force. The Chin warriors built a stockade at Leisan Mual (Red Rocky Gate) and stood firm. On 27 January 1889, the Chin warriors attacked the road workers and the British sent their troops to engage the Chin warriors. The Chin warriors gave strong resistance but the superior British fire power forced the Chin warriors to retreat. The Chin warriors then stood firm at Leisen Mual stockade which was the last line of defence. The British couldn’t take the stockade initially, so reinforcements were ordered and the British charged the stockade again and the stockade fell. As the last line of defence was breached by the superior British force, the door to the Sizang valley was wide open. The British forces marched to Leisang range, from where they could see the villages within Sizang valley. General Sir. George White described his experience of the battles with the Chin as \"Enemy yesterday attacked our working 1 party on road above this and held our covering party, 40 British and loo Gurkhas, from 9 till 3, when I arrived and ordered their positions to be charged. We carried all, driving them entirely away, getting off ourselves wonderfully cheaply. Only one Norfolk dangerously wounded. Enemy in considerable numbers, using many rifles and plenty ammunition. They fired at least 1,000 rounds, standing resolutely until actually charged, even trying to outflank us. Their loss probably about eight or ten, but they were carried down the khuds at once. Most difficult enemy to see or hit 1 ever fought\".\n\nThe battle at Leisen Mual was a serious blow to the Chin and they realized that it was impossible to save their villages. The leader Pu Khai Kam then burned his capital Khuasak before the arrival of the British, then moved to the jungle to start Guerrilla warfare. At the same time, the Chin warriors of the Sizang, Kamhau, Sukte and Khuano were assembling at Buanman. The British saw the assembly and they fired their artillery at Buanman. The cannon balls exploded spectacularly, leading the Chin to realise that they fought a far superior force and they lost the heart to resist. By February 1889, the British captured Khuasak, Buanman and Thuklai. A military post Fort White was established in honour of General George White. The British expedition force then burned the whole of Sizang villages as Carey & Tuck wrote in the Chin Hills: by 6 March 1889, not a single Sizang village remained in existence. The destruction of Sizang villages was accomplished with a good deal of firing, but very little damage to life and limb.\n\nAlthough the Chin people were beaten by a far superior force and driven out of their villages, they showed no sign of surrender and attacked British posts whenever they had an opportunity. They ambushed British posts, cut telegraph cables and stole cattle from the British whenever possible. The Sizang resisted the British from the forest for two years.\n\nThe Sizang warriors learned that they were not able to defeat British forces when fighting in the open, or from behind stockades. As they could not withstand the charges of British and Gurkha troops the Sizang warrior tried a different tactic which involved fighting from covered-in trenches. The Sizang warriors built a fort which was basically trenches which were all covered-in by leaves and wood. This fort was built at Siallum. In 1890, Siallum was a settlement of about 30 houses in which about 100 persons of the Buanman clan lived. \"Sial\" means the head (the toughest part) of a mithun and \"Lum\" means Fort. The Siallum fort consists of \"Kulhpi\", \"Kulh Peang\" and \"Nupi Kulh\". \"Khulhpi\" is the main fort where the Sizang warriors took position and fire upon the arrive of the British’s Chin Field Force. \"Kulhpeang\" was built for the spirit agent (or) medium Pu En Khawm and family. \"Nupi Kulh\" was built for elders, children and women. At the time of the fighting, about 80 women and children were hiding in this Nupi Kulh. The Sizang also built a watch tower known as \"Ngalvildum\" at a place called Nalum Mual.\n\nThe British forces stationed at Fort White started noticing some new huts at the site of Taitan. The British called it Taitan village but it was known by the Sizang as Siallum. To destroy this, Brigadier General Faunce assembled a column consisting of 65 rifles of the 2nd Battalion Norfolk Regiment and 60 rifles of the 42nd Gurkha Light Infantry. This column is also known as the Chin Field Force and was led by Captain C. H. Westmoreland of the 42nd Gurkha Light Infantry. The column marched from Fort White – Buanman – Mualsan – Ngumpi – Nalum - Taikhe then began the approach to Siallum (Taitan) village. The approach of the column was first noticed by the Sizang dogs (fox-terrier). Pu Zong On who was on duty at the watch tower at Nalum Mual also spotted the British column. He then ran to the village and informed the villagers. The whole village was then evacuated to the fort. The non-combatant families, women, children and elders were then to hide in the fort. The Sizang warriors also took up positions and were readied for the battle. When the British column arrived at Siallum (Taitan) village, the village was empty and quiet. The following is an account of the battle given by Captain Westmoreland of the 42nd Gurkha Light Infantry Battalion:\n\n\"The column, consisting of 65 rifles of the 2nd Battalion Norfolk Regiment and 60 rifles of the 42nd Gurkha Light Infantry, occupied the heights above New Tartan [Siallum] without opposition. The main body advanced with the intention of rushing the village, but encountered determined resistance from the Chins, who were strongly posted in two stockades. The upper stockade consisted of a log-hut, the sides and roof of which were bullet-proof. It was connected with a ravine to the east by a trench about 3 feet wide, 5 feet deep, and 20 yards long. The trench was covered with logs and planks flush with the ground. The hut itself was surrounded at a distance of 5 or 6 yards with rows of sharp-pointed stakes about 3 feet high. The second stockade was in the bed of the ravine. It consisted of a hole about 6 or 9 feet square, from which a trench ran down the ravine. Both trench and hole were covered with logs and planks and were bullet-proof. In both stockades there were a few spaces between the logs through which the Chins fired, and the only way in which they could be carried was by pulling away some of the timber. At the lower stockade, early in the action, Second-Lieutenant Michel fell mortally wounded. The troops at first endeavored to turn out the defenders of the upper stockade by firing through the openings between the logs. Before long the covered trench was noticed and pulled open and the Chins in it were shot. After accomplishing this under fire from the Chins in the lower stockade and in the neighbouring jungle, the column retired, burning the village as it went. The Chins, who had suffered heavily, did not follow, being deterred by the loss which they had sustained and kept in check by a small covering party on the heights. In this action our loss was one officer killed and two (Captain Mayne and Surgeon Ferdinand Le Quesne) severely wounded and three men killed and eight wounded. Ferdinand Le Quesne received the Victoria Cross for conspicuous coolness and gallantry displayed whilst dressing Lieutenant Michel‘s wound\".\n\nCaptain Westmoreland also reported the details of the battle to Gen. Faunce who in turn reported to the Chief Secretary to the Chief Commissioner of Burma. Gen. Faunce's telegram reads as follows: Begins: \"323 C.F., Fort White, May 5th 1889. A new Siyin village near site of Tartan [Siallum], south-east of this, having been seen from Sagyilain by party referred to in my 320C.F., I sent 65 Rifles, Norfolk, 60 Rifles, 42nd, under Major Shepherd, Norfolk, yesterday to destroy new Tartan [Siallum] which consisted of 15 houses. No opposition till after troops entered village, at bottom of which two very strong stockades, flanking each other and connected by covered way with plank-roof. Siyin Chins held their fire till troops were within 50 yards. They stood their ground and fought with great pluck, eight being killed with the bayonet. In the first stockade their loss was 30 killed and many wounded. I regret our loss was heavy\"\n\nThe secretary of the Chief Commissioner then replied \"YOUR No. 1283. Chief Commissioner (Sir Charles Crosthwaite, K.C.S.I.) will be glad to know whether it is to be understood that the attack was successful and that both stockades were taken and the village destroyed\".\n\nPolitical officer Major F.D. Raikes then replied to the Chief Secretary to the Chief Commissioner, Burma on 15 May 1889 \"New village of Taitan [Siallum] was destroyed, but one stockade was not taken as Officer Commanding Force considered if there were further casualty’s column could not return to Fort White that night and no arrangements made for camping out\".\n\nThe Chin Field Force did not destroy the fort nor defeat the Chin warriors. The Chin warriors did not give up fighting, despite the heavy losses. As the British column had also sustained casualties, Capt. Westmoreland decided to retreat back to Fort White. The Chin warriors did not chase them down as they had also suffered heavy casualties. At the time of the British retreat, at least 40 Chin warriors were still shooting at the retreating column. Capt. Westmoreland then razed the newly built village, Siallum, to ashes on his way back to Fort White. Immediately after the battle of Siallum, Brigadier General Faunce was replaced by General Symons on 9 May 1889.\n\nAfter the battle on 4 May, the Chin warriors repaired Siallum fort and made ready for another round of assault. Gen. Symons then led a column to the fort on 10 May 1889 and defeated the Chin. The Siallum fort was completely destroyed and burnt. The details of Gen. Symons operation was reported as follows: \"Following from General Officer Commanding Chin Field Force. Begins: May 10th. Party 150 Rifles, Norfolk, and 42nd Gurkhas, under Brigadier-General Symons visited TAITAN, scene of fight on 4th May, yesterday. Were unopposed though signal shots were fired. Found many graves and several bodies were buried in enemy‘s trenches. Siyin Chins repaired stockade which was all completely destroyed and burnt\".\n\nCasualties for the British force were four killed (one officer and three enlisted men) and ten wounded (two officers and eight enlisted men). The casualties for the Chin were 28 killed. Buanman Chief Pu Lian Kam was also killed in this battle. The casualties are as follows:\n\n1. Pu Lian Kam (Buanman Chief)\n2. Pu Vum Mang\n3. Pu Tuang Vungh\n4. Pu Pau Suang\n5. Pu Zong On\n6. Pu Siam Pau\n7. Pu Khup Vum \n8. Pu Khai Suak\n9. Pu Lam Khup \n10. Pu Zong Thuam \n11. Pu Za Vum\n12. Pu Thang Hau\n13. Pu Lu Kam\n14. Pu Son Suang\n15. Pu En Kham\n16. Pu Pau Lam\n17. Hang Sing \n18. Pu Tuang Mang \n19. Pi Lian Vung\n20. Pi Kuai Hung\n21. Pi Vung Neam\n22. Pi Uap Huai\n23. Pi Huai Nuam\n24. Pi Lam Ciang \n25. Pi Uap Niang\n26. Pi Niang Ciang\n27. Pi Dim Ngiak\n28. Pi Hoi Nuam\n\nPu Pau Thual who was at the battle in defending the Siallum fort compose the following poem/song:\n\nThe following poem was composed by the late Rev. T. Hau Go Sukte in honour of the heroines and heroes of the Battle of Siallum. This poem is still in displayed at the site of the fort.\n"}
{"id": "55501081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55501081", "title": "Spreading (debate)", "text": "Spreading (debate)\n\nSpreading is a term used in competitive debating in the United States—a portmanteau of speed reading—to refer to competitors speaking extremely fast.\n\nThe prevalence of spreading is attributed to 'failing to answer all opposing arguments' being an easy criteria for judges to award a win on, thus speaking fast and fielding an overwhelming number of distinct arguments is a viable strategy.\n\nIts usage is prevalent in both policy debating and the varsity level of debate. It is common practice for one who is spreading to 'flash' (give a copy of their case on a flash drive) to their opponent.\n\n"}
{"id": "1104118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1104118", "title": "State Council", "text": "State Council\n\nState Council may refer to:\n\nIn politics:\n\nIn military:\n\nIn other fields:\n\n"}
{"id": "31167437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31167437", "title": "State feminism", "text": "State feminism\n\nState feminism is feminism created or approved by the government of a state or nation. It usually specifies a particular program. The government may, at the same time, prohibit non-governmental organizations from advocating for any other feminist program.\n\nIn the 20th century, Turkey's government \"preempted feminism\". The Turkish national government's program in the 1920s included mandatory de-hijabicization (unveiling of women), access for women to more education and work, and political rights for women, all as part of a national effort to emulate some Western cultural characteristics in a Muslim nation.\n\nIn the 1980s, second-wave feminism appeared, among daughters of leading women of Turkey's Kemalist movement, the women being feminist within the government's definition and leadership. The state feminism they followed, according to scholar Margot Badran, covered parts of patriarchy with an appearance of Western progressivity.\n\nIn South Yemen, also known as the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (with the subsequent unification of two Yemens into one, the former PDRY is now generally south Yemen), state feminism had little effect on patriarchy and did not have much influence beyond Aden, a port city in the PDRY. \"Women in the south ... seemed to believe their gains would never be rescinded. They behaved as feminists, if by that is meant shaping lives of their choice by accessing the new options offered them. But they did not embrace a feminist ideology or identity, as this was preempted by the state. When the socialist regime collapsed, the fragile gains of state feminism went with it.\" \"Northern women had acquired an acute gender consciousness and developed practical feminist skills ... but they had no legitimate political space. Southern women had been able to exploit the educational and professional benefits conferred under state feminism, but they did not have the independent ideological space in which to develop a feminism of their own.\"\n\nPost-unification Yemen has been analyzed by one author.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, \"feminist activists and scholars in the Middle East assailed the limits of 'state feminism' and exposed its patriarchal dimensions.\"\n\n\"Sharon Wesoky characterized the relationship of an emergent women's movement to the [Chinese] state as 'symbiotic,' containing elements of both autonomy and dependence, and operating largely within rather than in opposition to party-state institutions.\"\n\nState feminisms' have been discredited elsewhere as well [\"e.g.\", in China] following the collapse of communist and socialist regimes.\"\n\n\"Many feminists ... consider the notion of a state feminism to be an oxymoron.\" Independent women's movements may be prohibited by the government.\n"}
{"id": "6211442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6211442", "title": "The Grand Chessboard", "text": "The Grand Chessboard\n\nThe Grand Chessboard: American Primacy and Its Geostrategic Imperatives (1997) is one of the major works of Zbigniew Brzezinski. Brzezinski graduated with a PhD from Harvard University in 1953 and became Professor of American Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University before becoming the United States National Security Advisor during 1977–81 under the administration of President Jimmy Carter.\n\nRegarding the landmass of Eurasia as the center of global power, Brzezinski sets out to formulate a Eurasian geostrategy for the United States. In particular, he writes, it is imperative that no Eurasian challenger should emerge capable of dominating Eurasia and thus also of challenging America's global pre-eminence.\n\nMuch of his analysis is concerned with geostrategy in Central Asia, focusing on the exercise of power on the Eurasian landmass in a post-Soviet environment. In his chapter dedicated to what he refers to as the \"Eurasian Balkans\", Brzezinski makes use of Halford J. Mackinder's Heartland Theory.\n\nThe book was critically reviewed by \"The New York Times\", \"Kirkus Reviews\", \"Foreign Affairs\", and other publications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40510718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40510718", "title": "The Listening (film)", "text": "The Listening (film)\n\nThe Listening (In ascolto) is a 2006 movie based on the mass surveillance operations conducted by the National Security Agency (NSA) with the aid of private corporations. It was Italian director Giacomo Martelli's debut movie and explored the dire consequences that can arise due to excessive corporate influence on a government agency set up for mass surveillance.\n\nIn the late 1990s, the National Security Agency (NSA) and a computer software firm, Wendell Crenshaw work together to implement a surveillance technology, the Echelon, which enables NSA to monitor almost anybody in the world. When classified information about the Echelon system accidentally finds its way into a young woman's hands, a terrible clash occurs in the opinions of a top-executive at Wendell Crenshaw and an NSA operative, the former determined to find out what the lady knows even if it means using violence and the latter, equally determined to save an innocent woman's life\n\nMaking a film specifically on ECHELON offered the possibility of exploring the issues of interception, violation of privacy, and the interference of corporate interests in matters of national as well as international security simultaneously.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1255102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1255102", "title": "Vote allocation", "text": "Vote allocation\n\nVote allocation is a system of tactical voting used in the Republic of China on Taiwan from the late-1990s, after which the voting system is to be changed from single non-transferable vote to a parallel voting system. In this system, voters are asked to vote for a party candidate based on items such as their day of birthday so as to evenly distribute votes. In districts where a party is running two candidates, males may be asked to vote for one candidate and females for another to insure even distribution. It was also practice in Japan and South Korea, where the SNTV system were used.\n\nHong Kong political parties started to adopt this strategy since 2000 to overcome the effect of the largest remainder system with Hare quota combined with small constituencies (5- to 8-member in 2008). They are able to get more seats with fewer votes by filling separate lists of candidates in the same constituencies.\n"}
{"id": "52267852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52267852", "title": "Water in Africa", "text": "Water in Africa\n\nOverall, Africa has about 9% of the world's fresh water resources and 11% of the world's population.\nHowever, there is very significant inter-and intra-annual variability of all climate and water resources characteristics, so while some regions have sufficient water, Sub-Saharan Africa faces numerous water-related challenges that constrain economic growth and threaten the livelihoods of its people. African agriculture is mostly based on rain-fed farming, and less than 10% of cultivated land in the continent is irrigated. The impact of climate change and variability is thus very pronounced. The main source of electricity is hydropower, which contributes significantly to the current installed capacity for energy. Continuing investment in the last decade has increased the amount of power generated.\n\nSolutions to the challenges of water for energy and food security are hindered by shortcomings in water infrastructure, development, and management capacity to meet the demands of a rapidly growing population. This is compounded by the fact the Africa has the fastest urbanization rates in the world. Water development and management are much more complex due to the multiplicity of trans-boundary water resources (rivers, lakes and aquifers). Around 75% of sub-Saharan Africa falls within 53 international river basin catchments that traverse multiple borders. This particular constraint can also be converted into an opportunity if the potential for trans-boundary cooperation is harnessed in the development of the area’s water resources. A multi-sectoral analysis of the Zambezi River, for example, shows that riparian cooperation could lead to a 23% increase in firm energy production without any additional investments. A number of institutional and legal frameworks for transboundary cooperation exist, such as the Zambezi River Authority, the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Protocol, Volta River Authority and the Nile Basin Commission. However, additional efforts are required to further develop political will, as well as the financial capacities and institutional frameworks needed for win-win multilateral cooperative actions and optimal solutions for all riparians.\n\nAfrica has recently undergone its best decade (2005-2015) for economic growth since the post-independence period. The growth, however, has neither been inclusive or equitable. According to the World Bank, GDP growth in sub-Saharan Africa averaged 4.5% in 2014, up from 4.2% in 2013, supported by continuing infrastructure investment, increased agricultural production and buoyant services.\n\nAfrica’s population surpassed the 1 billion mark in 2010 and is projected to double by 2050. Demographically, it is expected to be the fastest growing region in the world with the growth varying depending on sub region. Furthermore, the growth is skewed to the young and that component of the population that will need jobs is expected to increase rapidly and comprise 910 million out of the projected two billion total population by 2050. Most of the growth in workforce will be in Sub-Saharan Africa (about 90%). Hence, the demand for jobs will be a major policy issue across the continent, which is already experiencing high unemployment and underemployment; moreover, the latter is driving both migration within the region and emigration towards Europe and other regions.\n\nJob creation for this anticipated growth in population is set to be the major challenge for Africa’s structural economic and social transformation. It is estimated that in 2015, 19 million young people will be joining the sluggish job market in Sub-Saharan Africa and four million in North Africa. The demand for jobs is expected to increase to 24.6 million annually in Sub-Saharan Africa and 4.3 million in North Africa by 2030, representing two thirds of global growth in demand for jobs. Youth unemployment has been the trigger for uprisings, notably in North Africa, and has led to social and security instability.\n\nThe key water-dependent or related sectors with the potential for meeting part of the current and projected demand for jobs in Africa are social services, agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture, retail and hospitality, manufacturing, construction, natural resources exploitation (including mining) and energy production (including hydro, geothermal and expected fracking for oil and natural gas). All these sectors depend to a varying extent on the availability of, access to, and reliability of water resources. Irresponsible water use by some sectors can create short-term employment, but result in negative impacts on the availability of water resources and jeopardize future jobs in other water-dependent sectors. Climate change, water scarcity and variability have direct impact on the major sector outputs and thus ultimately on the overall economy of most African countries.\n\nCurrently, the most important water-dependent sector in Africa is agriculture, which forms the bedrock of most economies of African states. Both rain-fed and irrigated agriculture are important job-providing sectors in all African countries.\n\nThe role of agriculture as the main source of employment is decreasing in many African countries as a sustained growth in many economies is leading to increasing standards of living, improved education and the occurrence of rapid rural-urban migration of educated youth in search of white collar jobs. However, for the foreseeable future agriculture will still be a major source of employment, especially in non-oil producing African states. There is a rising paradox of increasing unemployment in the rapidly urbanizing cities and towns of Africa: labour shortages in rural areas are leading to significant reduction in food production and increased dependence of many African countries on food imports.\n\nBased on Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations statistics, agriculture was the source of employment for 49% of Africans by 2010 and is a reflection of a gradual decline from 2002 to 2010,which coincides with the period of sustained GDP growth in most African countries. In spite of this decline, agriculture is expected to create eight million stable jobs by 2020 based on the trends from the McKinsey Global Institute analysis. If the continent accelerates agricultural development by expanding large scale commercial farming on uncultivated land and shifts production from low-value grain production to more labour-intensive and higher value-added horticultural and bio fuel crops (a good example is Ethiopia), as many as six million additional jobs could be created continent-wide by 2020. However, such estimates do not take account of the potential displacement or disappearance of existing jobs. These would need to be carefully assessed in terms of social, economic and environmental impacts in the overall context of responsible agricultural investment.\n\nThe African fisheries and aquaculture sector employed12.3 million people in 2014 and contributed US $24 billion or 1.26% of the GDP of all African countries, which improved food security and nutrition. About half of the workers in the sector were fishers and the rest were processors (mainly women) or aquaculturists.\n\nFisheries and aquaculture contribution to GDP in Africa by sub-sector\nEmployment by subsector\nMany manufacturing industries in Africa are water-dependent. The share of jobs is lower than in agriculture, even though the industries cited are considered as water intensive. In 2011, Ghana’s economy grew at 14% with the onset of its first production of oil. However, in 2015 the growth rate was expected to be only 3.9%. This can be attributed to a great extent to the failure to provide the basic water and energy infrastructure to meet the needs of a rapidly growing economy. Ghana is mainly dependent on the Akosombo hydroelectric dam on the Volta River for electricity. Due to reduced inflows from low rainfall, the hydroelectric dam was operating merely at half of its capacity in 2015. This was exacerbated by disruptions mainly in geothermal plants. In June 2015, all electricity was being rationed at 12 hours on, and 24 hours off. Though this is extreme, it reinforces the need for water infrastructure to sustain production and jobs in the nascent African economies. Anecdotal evidence from trade unions and employers in Ghana indicate that tens of thousands of stable jobs were lost in 2015 and the investment climate has turned sour, forcing Ghana to seek International Monetary Fund macro-economic support again. These policy instruments are underpinned by strategies and programmes, including the New Partnership for African Development Program (NEPAD), Program for Infrastructure Development in Africa (PIDA) and many others, which include the integrated development of Africa’s water resources for socio-economic development and poverty alleviation and eradication. The AU Agenda 2063, for example, aspires to a prosperous Africa based on inclusive growth and sustainable development. It specifically aims for an Africa that shall have equitable and sustainable use and management of water resources for socio-economic development, regional cooperation and the environment, and calls for the following action among others. \"‘Support Young people as drivers of Africa’s renaissance, through investment in their health,education and access to technology, opportunities and capital, and concerted strategies to combat youth unemployment and underemployment. Encourage exchange and Pan-Africanism among young people through the formation of African Union Clubs in all schools, colleges and universities. Ensure faster movement on the harmonization of continental admissions, curricula, standards, programmes and qualifications and raising the standards of higher education to enhance the mobility of African youth and talent across the continent by 2025’.\"\n\nFor Africa to be able to meet the Sustainable Development Goals and maintain the impressive growth rates of the last 10 years, the basic infrastructures of water, electricity and transportation are prerequisites. Without these basics, the African economies will lose the momentum of the last decade, which will lead to not only loss of direct water jobs, but also jobs in all the other sectors dependent on water. An illustrative example is the case of Ghana which is often cited as one of the best examples of economic recovery in Africa.\n\nThe African Policy Framework for the water sector comprise a series of high-level declarations,resolutions and programmes of action on the development and use of the continent’s water resources for socio-economic development, regional integration and the environment. These include the African Water Vision 2025 and its Framework of Action, the African Union (AU) Extraordinary Summit on Water and Agriculture, the AU Sharm El Sheikh Declaration on Water and Sanitation, and most importantly, the Agenda 2063 –The Africa We Want.\n\nThese policy instruments are underpinned by strategies and programmes, including the New Partnership for African Development Program (NEPAD), Program for Infrastructure Development in Africa (PIDA) and many others, which include the integrated development of Africa’s water resources for socio-economic development and poverty alleviation and eradication.\n\nThe AU Agenda 2063, for example, aspires to a prosperous Africa based on inclusive growth and sustainable development. It specifically aims for an Africa that shall have equitable and sustainable use and management of water resources for socio-economic development, regional cooperation and the environment, and calls for the following action among others. \"‘Support Young people as drivers of Africa’s renaissance, through investment in their health,education and access to technology, opportunities and capital, and concerted strategies to combat youth unemployment and underemployment. Encourage exchange and Pan-Africanism among young people through the formation of African Union Clubs in all schools, colleges and universities. Ensure faster movement on the harmonization of continental admissions, curricula, standards, programmes and qualifications and raising the standards of higher education to enhance the mobility of African youth and talent across the continent by 2025’.\"\n"}
