{"id": "21319499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21319499", "title": "2009 Malagasy political crisis", "text": "2009 Malagasy political crisis\n\nThe 2009 Malagasy political crisis began on 26 January 2009 with the political opposition movement led by Antananarivo mayor Andry Rajoelina, which sought to oust President Marc Ravalomanana from the presidency. The crisis reached its climax on 21 March 2009 when Andry Rajoelina was declared the president of the High Transitional Authority of Madagascar, five days after Ravalomanana transferred his power to a military council and fled to South Africa.\n\nThe international community immediately condemned the leader and his ascension as unconstitutional. Financial support and foreign investments stopped, and the country fell into one of the worst economic crises in its history. The SADC and the African Union have been designated to supervise Madagascar's political reinstatement.\n\nThough the objective of the transitional government was to run presidential elections as soon as possible to relieve the tensions (despite regular delays), its major challenge has been to establish an agreement among Madagascar's four key political factions (Rajoelina, Ravalomanana, Zafy and Ratsiraka), some of which were and still are unfriendly to the transitional government. On 11 December 2010 a new constitution was formally approved, launching the Fourth Republic. On 28 October 2011 a consensus Prime Minister, Omer Beriziky, was appointed. Presidential and parliamentary elections were scheduled for 8 May and 3 July 2013.\n\nIn December 2007, Andry Rajoelina was elected mayor of Antananarivo. Tensions quickly grew between president Ravalomanana and the young mayor over the course of 2008 as Rajoelina became a vocal critic of a series of unpopular policies enacted by the president. He condemned what he called the \"restriction of freedom\" on the island, and criticized the president's plans to lease large parts of land to the Korean industrial company Daewoo.\n\nOn 13 December 2008, the Ravalomanana administration decided to shutter Viva TV, a television channel belonging to Rajoelina after broadcasting an interview with the former exiled president Didier Ratsiraka. Other television and radio stations that also aired the interview were not sanctioned.\n\nAndry Rajoelina organized a series of rallies in January 2009 that took aim at the Ravalomanana administration and gave voice to growing popular resentment toward the president's increasingly authoritarian policies and a widespread perception that national development had only benefitted an elite minority of which the president was the most visible figurehead. As anti-government frustration transformed into civil unrest, two state television stations were burned by anti-government protesters. At least 130 people were killed in Madagascar during the crisis. The protests were seen as the gravest challenge faced by the Ravalomanana government since he came to office in 2002. President Ravalomanana vowed to restore order \"whatever the cost\", according to a government statement.\n\nRajoelina called a general strike during the weekend of 24–25 January 2009, in the capital city, Antananarivo, against Ravalomanana, whom he has called a dictator. Ravalomanana, who was in South Africa, cut short his trip to a regional summit in Pretoria, and flew back to Madagascar. In a statement Ravalomanana accused the mayor of attempting a coup saying, \"The call for revolt and civil disobedience... corresponds to a coup d'état...tramples on the values of the constitution and the republic's institutions.\"\n\nOn 26 January 2009, the protests turned increasingly violent. Demonstrators set fire to the Madagascar state-owned radio building, attacked a private television station owned by Ravalomanana and looted shops and businesses throughout the city. That same day, armed government security agents reportedly disabled the transmitter of Viva Radio, a private radio station owned by Rajoelina.\n\nProtesters ransacked two pro-government television stations in Antananarivo. Thousands of protesters raided and looted the headquarters of the Radio Nationale Malgache and Télévision Nationale Malgache building around 1 pm local time on 26 January 2009. About an hour later demonstrators burned down the Malagasy Broadcasting System, a private station owned by President Ravalomanana. A policeman and a fourteen-year-old protester were reportedly killed in the clashes at the Malagasy Broadcasting System attacks.\n\nFirefighters found the bodies of at least 25 people in the ruins of a burned out, looted department store in downtown Antananarivo. The bodies were thought to be those of looters who became trapped in the burning shop when the roof caved in. In total, 44 people died. Their bodies were taken to a morgue, and all but ten of them were found to be severely burned.\n\nIn a show of defiance against the government, Rajoelina called for all Antananarivo residents to stay home on 29 January 2009. This \"ghost town\" (\"ville morte\") protest basically closed all stores and businesses in the capital city.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Cardinal emeritus of Antananarivo Armand Razafindratandra appealed for calm as the protests spread outside of the capital. All state and private radio stations in the country reportedly ceased broadcasting, with the exception of Radio Don Bosco, which is run by the Salesian religious institute.\n\nRajoelina said on 31 January that he was taking control of the country due to the failure of Ravalomanana and the government to fulfil their responsibilities. He said that a request for Ravalomanana's \"immediate resignation\" would be submitted to Parliament \"in order to comply with the legal procedure\". Furthermore, he asked that the central bank withhold money from the government, that all government ministries close, and that the security forces join him. Rajoelina said that he wanted the constitution to be respected and that it was Ravalomanana who had violated the constitution. According to Rajoelina, a new transitional government would soon be appointed under his leadership and a new presidential election would be held within two years. Speaking on the same day, Ravalomanana stated that he was \"still the president of this country\" and that he would \"do what is necessary to develop this nation\".\n\nThe African Union (AU) immediately warned Rajoelina that it would not accept an unconstitutional power grab in Madagascar: \"It's totally forbidden to take power by non-constitutional means.\"\n\nOpposition leaders allied to Rajoelina filed a petition with the High Constitutional Court on 2 February, asking it to remove Ravalomanana from office. By that point, attendance at Rajoelina's rallies had reportedly decreased. On 3 February, Rajoelina said at a rally that he would announce his new government on 7 February. On the same day, the High Constitutional Court ruled that it had no power to remove the President from office, as that power belonged to Parliament. Also on 3 February, Rajoelina was dismissed as Mayor and a special delegation, headed by Guy Randrianarisoa, was appointed instead. Rajoelina denounced the decision, saying that there was \"no valid reason\" for it and that he was prepared to face arrest if necessary; he warned that the city would \"not accept this decision\".\n\nRajoelina held another rally on 4 February, with about 1,500 people in attendance. On that occasion he described the appointment of Randrianarisoa as \"an insult to the people of Madagascar\"; he instead designated Michele Ratsivalaka to succeed him as Mayor and gave her his mayoral scarf.\n\nOn 7 February, an opposition rally was held with twenty-thousand in attendance. The demonstrators marched towards Ambohitsorohitra Palace and crossed the \"ligne rouge\" (red line), the perimeter line around the palace gates that demarcates the zone off-limits to the public. The palace guards responded by firing live ammunition to disperse the crowd. Initial reports counted 83 wounded and 28 people killed, including a local reporter. Some looting was reported afterward. Ambulances took the wounded to hospitals or private clinics, and bodies were seen piled up on the streets before they were taken to the morgue. The National Police warned that the death toll could rise, as many of the wounded were in critical condition. The following day it was reported that the death toll had increased to at least 50, with doctors estimating that 180 people had arrived at the city's main Ravoahangy Andrianavalona Hospital. Antananarivo journalist Fanja Saholiarisoa said: \"The mortuary is full and the hospital is full. On TV there is a special announcement calling on people who have cars to come and pick up the injured people from the hospitals\". This brought the number of people killed since the start of the political violence to 130, with 80 people killed before the shooting of the demonstrators, including the people who died in the burned department store.\n\nAlso on 7 February, Rajoelina said that Roindefo Monja would be prime minister under his transitional authority. According to Rajoelina, each of Madagascar's regions would have representation in the transitional authority. Regarding Ambohitsorohitra Palace, Rajoelina alluded to its history as a mayoral residence prior to 2002 and said that it \"belongs to the people and to the city\", while declaring that he had decided to give the palace to Monja for his use as prime minister. On the same day, Ravalomanana urged \"calm and order\", accusing Rajoelina of \"cross[ing] all limits\", while Prime Minister Charles Rabemananjara announced a one-week extension of the curfew.\n\nWhile visiting hospitalized victims of the shooting on 8 February, Rajoelina vowed to continue his struggle and argued that Ravalomanana's answer to the popular call for change was gunfire. He called for a national day of mourning on 9 February.\n\nOn 9 February, Defence Minister Cécile Manorohanta announced her resignation, saying, \"After all that has happened, I decide as of now to no longer remain part of this government.\" Chief of military staff Mamy Ranaivoniarivo was appointed to replace Manorohanta on the same day.\n\n7 February shooting was thought to have reversed the opposition's declining momentum. Newspapers published on 9 February, strongly denounced the shooting. On 10 February, speaking before a rally of about 5,000 supporters, Rajoelina urged the people to observe a general strike on the next day; he asked that everyone stay indoors and that no one go to work or attend school. Roindefo announced the appointment of four ministers to serve in his transitional government, and he said that the remainder of them would be appointed by the end of the week. Meanwhile, both Ravalomanana and Rajoelina accepted dialogue in principle; Rajoelina said that dialogue would be conditional on the holding of a new presidential election or the formation of a transitional government.\n\nAt a 35,000-strong rally in Antananarivo on 14 February, Ravalomanana said that he would serve out his full term as president, that he was listening to the people, and that he regretted the deaths that had occurred during the protests. On the same day, Rajoelina held a rally nearby, with about 10,000 in attendance.\n\nAt a rally on 17 February, Rajoelina vowed to continue the struggle, and later in the day several thousand of his supporters engaged in sit-ins near key ministries. Representing the government, Defense Minister Ranaivoniarivo invited Roindefo to participate in talks. Rajoelina's supporters took over several important ministries on 19 February, changing the locks and installing Rajoelina's own ministers to work in them. Meanwhile, Ravalomanana appointed a new Minister of the Interior, Rabenja Sehenoarisoa (who had previously served as chief of police in the capital). His predecessor as Interior Minister, Gervais Rakotonirina, was said to have departed the government due to poor health. Only hours after the opposition took over the government ministries, they were removed from the ministries by security forces early on 20 February; about 50 of Rajoelina's supporters were arrested.\n\nRavalomanana and Rajoelina met on 21 February; this meeting, which lasted about 45 minutes, was organized by the Council of Christian Churches in Madagascar. Both Ravalomanana and Rajoelina agreed to five points intended to calm the situation. This was intended as a prelude to more comprehensive dialogue. On 23 February the two met again for about an hour, and they held a third meeting, also lasting an hour, on 24 February. However, Ravalomanana failed to appear for a planned meeting on 25 February, and Rajoelina then announced that he was withdrawing from the talks. Rajoelina criticized Ravalomanana for his absence and furthermore stated that the meetings he had held with Ravalomanana prior to that were disappointing. Odon Razanakolona, who had been mediating the talks, abandoned his role shortly before Rajoelina withdrew from the talks; according to Razanakolona, the talks were fruitless and deadlocked.\n\nA protest in Antananarivo was broken up by the security forces on 26 February. Another protest in Fianarantsoa on 27 February, was also broken up; two deaths and 13 serious injuries were reported in the latter incident. At a 10,000-strong rally in Antananarivo on 28 February, Rajoelina vowed to continue his struggle \"until we end this dictatorship\". He said that, beginning on 2 March, protests would be held in the 13 May Plaza on a daily basis; he also called for the army to support him.\n\nA protest in Ambositra was broken up by police on 4 March, and two people were killed. Also on 4 March, President Ravalomanana declared his intention to \"restore order\" on Radio Mada. In Antananarivo, police blocked roads on 5 March to prevent protests in the 13 May Plaza.\n\nThe security forces unsuccessfully attempted to arrest Rajoelina at his compound late on 5 March; they also raided his Viva media network. Initially they surrounded Viva, and after 30 minutes the staff attempted to evacuate equipment, at which point the security forces stormed the building and confiscated equipment. Rajoelina told Agence France-Presse on 7 March that he was \"now hiding in a safe location where I cannot be attacked\"; it was later acknowledged that he had gone to the residence of the French ambassador on 6 March.\n\nSoldiers at a military base in Soanierana district, near Antananarivo, mutinied on 8 March; they objected to the use of force against the opposition. United Nations envoy Tiebilé Dramé said on 9 March that the UN was placing Rajoelina \"under its protection in a diplomatic residence\". The French Foreign Ministry said on 10 March that Rajoelina had left the French ambassador's residence.\n\nOn 10 March, the chief of staff of the Malagasy army, General Edmond Rasolomahandry, gave political leaders 72 hours to solve the country's problems and return peace, threatening to take over if this did not occur. The same day, Defence Minister Ranaivoniarivo announced his resignation shortly after a number of army officers visited his office to threaten a switch of allegiances to Rajoelina. On 11 March, pro-opposition soldiers from the CAPSAT (Army Corps of Personnel and Administrative and Technical Services) stormed the army headquarters and forced Edmond Rasolomahandry to resign. Analysts stated that civil war seemed a distinct possibility. Andre Andriarijaona replaced Rasolomahandry, apparently as a result of internal army deliberations and not a presidential appointment, and Andriarijaona said that the military would remain neutral and not seize power, thus revoking the 72-hour ultimatum. A spokesman for Rajoelina said on 11 March that Rajoelina would not participate in talks planned to begin the next day; subsequently the Christian Council of Churches announced that the talks would be delayed.\n\nOn 12 March, the opposition took over the Ministry of Finance and Budget with the support of the armed forces while the president's prime minister held a ten-minute meeting with the opposition-designated prime minister, who later stated that Rabemananjara had agreed to give up his job to him. The next day, the chief of the military police stated he was taking orders from Andre Andriarijaona and not from the general appointed by Ravalomanana; this was followed by the sending of army tanks against the Iavoloha Palace of the president, while some 3,000–5,000 civilian supporters of Ravalomanana surrounded the palace to counter opposition protests further away from the area. The Ravalomanana supporters, however, were told to clear the road in case the army neared the area.\n\nOn 14 March, Monja occupied the prime minister's office while the opposition forces controlled the building. Monja announced that the opposition forces, called the High Authority of Transition, \"is presiding over the destiny of Madagascar\". Rajoelina gave the president four hours, until 6 pm (1500 GMT), to voluntarily resign, after which a mass civilian march would take place on the presidential palace to put Ravalomanana out of office; he explicitly ruled out a violent overthrow through military means. However, Ravalomanana later emerged from the guarded palace after the deadline had passed, asserting that he was still the legal president and calling for a national conference.\n\nOn 15 March, Ravalomanana offered to hold a referendum on whether he should stay in power or not, which was seen as a sign of the intense pressure placed on his presidency. The following day, Rajoelina rejected this proposal and called on the security forces to arrest Ravalomanana.\n\nOn 16 March 2009, one of the palaces of President Ravalomanana, the Ambohitsorohitra Palace, was stormed and taken by soldiers of the Malagasy Army. Reports also indicate the capture of the country's central bank. The president was not in the stormed palace at the time. The African Union condemned the action, calling it an \"attempted coup d'état\". The actions followed an earlier call from opposition leader Andry Rajoelina for the President's arrest; Rajoelina insisted that the palace seizure was not a coup, although he immediately installed himself in the presidential offices of the captured palace.\n\nHours later, the BBC stated that Ravalomanana was to resign and hand over the powers of both the president and prime minister to a military board headed by Vice Admiral Hyppolite Ramaroson. Ravalomanana later said, \"I never resigned. I was forced to hand power over, at gun point, on March the 17th.\" At the time, Ravalomanana had already moved out of the Iavoloha Palace to an undisclosed location; as of 24 March, he was reportedly in Swaziland. The military junta, consisting of senior military personnel, would have been charged with organizing elections within 24 months and re-writing the constitution for the \"Fourth Republic\". However, Vice Admiral Ramaroson announced on 18 March that it would transfer power directly to Rajoelina, making him president of the opposition-dominated High Transitional Authority that he had appointed weeks earlier. With the military's backing, the authority was charged with taking up the task previously accorded to Ravalomanana's proposed military directorate. Madagascar's constitutional court deemed the transfer of power, from Ravalomanana to the military board and then to Rajoelina, to be legal. The court's statement did not include any justifications for its decision.\n\nRajoelina said that Ravalomanana should be prosecuted for allegedly using lethal force against unarmed opposition demonstrators earlier in the year. Rajoelina is prohibiting Ravalomanana's ministers from leaving the country.\n\nOn 19 March, Rajoelina suspended both chambers of Parliament. Roindefo responded to international criticism on 20 March, saying that the government will \"explain the real situation. Maybe the way Madagascar acts is not very clear. Things can be a bit specific which may be difficult to follow in every detail.\" According to Roindefo, the transfer of power was not a coup d'état but instead \"the direct expression of democracy, when representative democracy does not express itself through the institutions\". Rajoelina was sworn in as President on 21 March before a crowd of 40,000 supporters. No foreign diplomats were in attendance; Rajoelina's foreign minister said none were invited.\n\nOn the same day, Malagasy navy troops called for Rajoelina's resignation by 25 March, threatening to use force otherwise to protect the constitution of Madagascar. According to their statement, the navy troops \"condemn all violence against civilians\" committed by the army corps in March and denounce Rajoelina for the \"civil war occurring in Madagascar\". The navy troops claimed that there was \"irrefutable\" evidence that Rajoelina had paid the army corps hundreds of millions of ariaries and that they should face trials in accordance with military law. The navy troops called for other nations not to get involved in what they considered a purely domestic affair.\n\nIn a recorded message from Ravalomanana played to around 10,000 of supporters on 25 March, Ravalomanana encouraged people to \"save the nation, defend the union and our national unity\" because Rajoelina's government was \"destroying our country with their coup.\"\n\nAlso on 25 March, Rajoelina invited Ravalomanana's political party to join other political parties, unions, and business leaders to discuss reconciliation on 2 and 3 April. Rajoelina said the meeting would also include planning for the next elections. Rajoelina said he would appoint the members of the group who would organize the meeting. Ravalomanana's political party, Tiako I Madagasikara (TIM), did not immediately comment on whether it would participate in those meetings.\n\nOn 26 March, Rajoelina's justice minister said that Rajoelina had given a presidential pardon to 28 \"political prisoners\" and that more would be pardoned in the future. Members of TIM spoke to the crowd. The names of the pardoned individuals were not made public.\n\nAbout 6,000 people who supported Ravalomanana assembled in a park in downtown Antananarivo on 26 March, the fourth consecutive of such protests. Members of TIM spoke to the crowd. Referring to the reconciliation meeting proposed by Rajoelina, the speakers said that Ravalomanana would be involved only if he were recognized at the meeting as Madagascar's elected president and only if the United Nations, Southern African Development Community, or another neutral, international body organized the meeting. The speakers urged Ravalomanana to leave Swaziland, return to Madagascar, and call the bicameral parliament back in session. One speaker said that elections should only be held after Ravalomanana was reinstated as president. Following the speeches, security forces fired tear gas and shot bullets into the air to disperse the crowd.\n\nThe following day, about 6,000 people who supported Ravalomanana assembled again, the fifth such demonstration in five consecutive days. Police used tear gas on the assembled individuals at the end of the event, as they did at the end of the previous day's demonstration.\n\nOn 28 March, between 15,000 and 20,000 protesters assembled for the sixth consecutive day. In a recorded message played to the assembled crowd, Ravalomanana encouraged his supporters to continue protesting and gave assurance that he would return to Madagascar soon. While marching towards the 13 May Plaza, the same location that Rajoelina's supporters had assembled earlier in the year, police fired their weapons into the air and used tear gas to disperse the crowds, resulting in a stampede that injured 34 people. A young protester named \"Razily\", who was seen in a video of 28 March protests carrying the Malagasy flag at the head of the protests before being publicly beaten and carted off by police, became a cause célèbre when the video was distributed online; he has not been seen since his arrest. Police said they were trying to keep Ravalomanana's supporters from confronting Rajoelina's supporters. In response to the police actions, Ravalomanana's supporters encouraged a general strike on 30 March, saying, \"Students should not go to school, office workers should stop their work and the private sector should stop paying taxes so as not to support an illegal regime.\" Protests continued nearly every day thereafter.\n\nOn 31 March, Rajoelina announced the individuals who would constitute the cabinet of his transitional administration for 24 months until elections are held. Rajoelina compared himself to Ravalomanana, saying that Ravalomanana was not immediately accepted by world leaders when he came to power in 2002. Rajoelina reiterated his previous statements that other countries should not \"interfere\" with his rise to the presidency of Madagascar. Rajoelina also announced a freeze of all mining contracts with foreign companies, saying that the foreign companies are not paying the fees and royalties that are legally due to Madagascar.\n\nStill asserting that he was the legitimate president, Ravalomanana announced from exile that he was appointing Manandafy Rakotonirina as Prime Minister on 16 April. Ravalomanana made this announcement by telephone at a rally of his supporters in Antananarivo, with Rakotonirina in attendance.\n\nOn 20 April, people gathered in Antananarivo to listen to Ravalomanana speak by telephone and protest the closure of two radio stations, Radio Fahazavana and Radio Mada, the latter of which is owned by Ravalomanana. When the protesters began marching to a courthouse in the center of the city, police used tear gas to disperse the crowds and then fired their guns. A BBC reporter witnessed a protester killed after being shot in the back at close range. Another protester was also killed and twenty people went to the hospital for injuries sustained during the protests. The following day, thousands of people assembled to mourn the two deaths. Prime Minister Roindefo Monja announced that \"all demonstrations are banned, including those in support of Andry Rajoelina, in order to restore law and order.\" Despite the ban, a demonstration was held the following day. Over a thousand people assembled to protest, fewer in number and shorter in duration as compared in previous days.\n\nCars and trucks were set on fire and people were looting in Antananarivo on 23 April. Police used tear gas, detonators, and gun fire to break up protests. Six protesters were arrested.\n\nAfter Ravalomanana appointed him as Prime Minister, Rakotonirina began working out of the Carlton hotel in Antananarivo, and he appointed ministers to occupy the key government portfolios on 28 April. Soldiers with a warrant for Rakotonirina's arrest stormed the Carlton and arrested him on 29 April; they found him hiding in a bathroom after searching for about an hour. A spokesperson for Rajoelina described Rakotonirina as \"the mastermind of last week's violence\". Also in late April, Rajoelina's government informed the AU that it was prepared to hold an election by the end of 2009, earlier than it had previously stated.\n\nAt a reconciliation meeting that included four former presidents of Madagascar and United Nations negotiators, it was announced on 3 April that a constitutional referendum would be held in September 2009, parliamentary elections in March 2010 and presidential elections in October 2010.\n\nOn 11 April, Ravalomanana's supporters ended their participation in meetings with Rajoelina's supporters. Ravalomanana's supporters saying that the meetings were not worthwhile because their condition of the Ravalomanana's return to power was not met, nor was the United Nations' special envoy to Madagascar, Tiébilé Dramé, acting as an impartial mediator. In response, Dramé said he was \"seeking a consensus\" rather than an \"imposed solution\". On the same day, more than 10,000 people assembled in Antananarivo to protest Rajoelina's government.\n\nAt a meeting on 23 May 2009 a breakthrough was reached; a transitional government and a truth and reconciliation commission was agreed to be formed, and all former presidents would be allowed to stand in the presidential elections; this last point was seen as controversial, as it might increase instability. However, on 25 May 2009 the party of Didier Ratsiraka withdrew from the talks.\n\nFormer exiled president of Madagascar Marc Ravalomanana, President of the High Authority of Transition of Madagascar Andry Rajoelina, former exiled Madagascar president Didier Ratsiraka and former president of the Malagasy Republic Albert Zafy met on Tuesday 4 August 2009 in Maputo, Mozambican capital, for four-day-long mediation crisis talks with the former Mozambican President Joaquim Chissano acting as mediator. Representatives came from the African Union (AU), United Nations (UN), the International Organisation of the Francophonie and the Southern African Development Community (SADC). The mediation talks hoped to arrive at a way for Ravalomanana to return to Madagascar from his exile in South Africa. The talks were also a trade meeting to begin negotiations on the transition charter to seek new elections in Madagascar. Ratsiraka, who had been exiled in France, saw his amnesty issue resolved at the talks. The four leaders sought to again become a customs union (SADC), and representatives of the United Nations.\n\nOn 7 November 2009, the leaders agreed to a power-sharing deal in which Rajoelina stays as president, creation of two co-presidents, Fetison Rakoto Andrianirina, aide to former President Ravalomanana and Emmanuel Rakotovahiny, aide to former President Zafy. Prime Minister Eugene Mangalaza who was appointed on 10 October will be retained heading the 31-member cabinet. The deal also creates a 65-member council of transitional advisers and a transitional parliament composed of 258 members.\n\nDuring the transition in the government, people have been illegally hunting and logging in Marojejy National Park and other conservation areas in Madagascar. While the new Malagasy government is otherwise preoccupied and some park rangers have left their posts, armed groups are cutting down valuable rosewood trees. Laws prohibiting the export of rosewood were repealed in January 2009, so the illegally acquired logs can be sold and exported for profit. Thousands of local people were involved in cutting a documented 123,000 rosewood logs representing an estimated 45,000 rosewood trees from Marojejy, Masoala and Makira National Parks between January–October 2009, with at least 871 containers already exported to China between March–April 2009 alone from the Vohemar and Toamasina ports. Floating the rosewood logs down rivers also requires cutting of 4–5 lighter trees, and several rosewood species are endangered or occur at low densities below 1–5 trees per hectare. Numerous new access paths are created and some individuals built a 6-kilometer-long road into a remote northern park to transport the logs. Some ships land directly on the coast to pick up the logs, rather than at government-controlled ports. Bribery of customs officials has been reported. Radio commercials have been aired seeking workers to help in the process. Extracting resources from these conservation areas is likely to threaten already critically endangered species such as the silky sifaka lemur, one of the top 25 most endangered primates in the world. A statement jointly released by several non-governmental organizations criticized the logging and hunting occurring in national parks, illegal mining, and slash-and-burn farming occurring in Madagascar. The joint statement said that \"These deplorable acts will only further impoverish the country and deprive future generations of the Malagasy people from their unique natural heritage.\" The groups who issued the statement were World Wide Fund for Nature, Conservation International, Wildlife Conservation Society, Missouri Botanical Garden, Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust, Institute for the Conservation of Tropical Environment, The Peregrine Fund, ONG Fanamby, Madagascar Fauna Group, L'Homme et l'Environnement, and Plant Resources for Tropical Africa.\n\nIn 2009, Rajoelina canceled a contract with South Korean company Daewoo. Under the contract, Daewoo would have leased of land, almost half of Madagascar's arable land, for 99 years to grow corn and palm oil for export to South Korea, a project that might have created as many as 45,000 jobs. On 10 April 2009, Madagascar's Minister of Land Reform confirmed that the contract with Daewoo had been canceled because its \"approach was wrong\", even though \"the project by itself wasn't bad and such a project is welcome\". As of 10 April, Daewoo said it had not been informed of the contract's cancellation and would proceed with the project regardless.\n\nOn 17 March 2009, Canadian energy company Sherritt International said its 27-year $4.5-billion nickel-mining project would still begin in 2010 and reach full production in 2013, as scheduled. On 19 March 2009, it said it was likely the project's start date would be delayed.\n\nFinance Minister Benja Razafimahaleo reported a decrease in government revenue of 15 to 20 percent. Ravalomanana owns Tiko, the largest dairy farm in Madagascar. After Rajoelina became president, Rajoelina's supporters looted Tiko dairy farms, resulting in a milk shortage in Madagascar. Revenue from foreign tourists has decreased by 70 percent, in part because some foreign countries are cautioning their citizens against visiting the country About 70 percent of hotels have closed due to the sharp drop in business. One large hotel that has remained open temporarily laid off 150 of its 400 employees and cut the hours and wages of its other 250 employees. Strikes, wage shortages, and cuts in foreign aid are also causing economic problems for the country.\n\nOn 28 January 2009, the Confederation of African Football canceled a match between Madagascar's Academie Ny Antsika and Réunion's Union Sportive Stade Tamponnaise, which was set to be played in Antananarivo.\n\n\nSince 16 March, Norway has instituted sanctions, mostly consisting of a freeze of economic aid, primarily due to the unstable atmosphere in the country prior to the resignation of Ravalomanana, and it has retained such sanctions for the time being.\n\nOn 20 March, U.S. State Department spokesman Robert Wood said the United States will suspend all non-humanitarian assistance to Madagascar.\n\nThe African Union suspended Madagascar's membership in the organization. The Peace and Security Council of the African Union announced that it would impose sanctions on the Madagascar government if an \"unconstitutional\" transfer of power were to take place, including total expulsion from the African Union. The African Union can enact sanctions if Madagascar does not restore constitutional order within six months.\n\nThe African Union's stance was corroborated by Czech Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg, who stated that the European Union may impose sanctions on Madagascar and not recognize the transfer of power, and the United States Department of State, which indicated a similar response to any \"extra-constitutional\" regime change. The Southern African Development Community will meet in late March to consider sanctions.\n\nOn 31 March, the European Union said it had not suspended its aid to Madagascar, which will continue for the next three years as previously agreed, but it also had no plans for new aid.\n\nUS President Barack Obama decided to remove Madagascar from the beneficiary of the AGOA African Growth and Opportunity Act. On 23 December of the year 2009, President Obama also terminated the program for Guinea, Niger and Madagascar because of their undemocratic changes of power. The AGOA program has helped created ten of thousands of jobs for middle class Malagasy especially in apparel manufacturing factories, it is feared that most of these jobs will be lost in the near future. Considering the important number of business affected by this decision, the economy of the capital city Antananarivo and Antsirabe will be deeply affected fearing further social tension.\n\nMost of the government response has been channeled through opposition prime minister Monja Roindefo, who denied that the events leading to Rajoelina's gaining of the presidency was a coup, but rather a \"direct expression of democracy, when representative democracy does not express itself through the institutions\", and called on the European Union to reconsider its reaction to the events. Rajoelina dismissed the condemnations, stating that \"if they haven't understood the process, they may well react. But if they stick to their line after we have spoken, it will be annoying\".\n\nRajoelina has promised that the high cost of living would decrease because merchants had agreed to decrease the price of bread and cooking oil as of 30 March, and the cost of rice soon thereafter.\n\nIn response to the Southern African Development Community's view that Rajoelina's rise to power was unconstitutional and its urging for elections within six months, Rajoelina said that membership in the SADC is \"not in the interests of Madagascar\". He said he would confer with others to decide whether Madagascar would continue to be a member of the SADC. \"The prospect of an SADC intervention is unacceptable. Other states cannot interfere with the decision of (Madagascar's) High Constitutional Court\" that the transfer of power to Rajoelina was constitutional.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8808574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8808574", "title": "Afrobarometer", "text": "Afrobarometer\n\nThe Afrobarometer is a pan-African, independent, non-partisan research network that measures public attitudes on economic, political, and social matters in Africa.\n\nIt is carried out through a partnership of the Ghana Center for Democratic Development (CDD Ghana), Institute for Justice and Reconciliation (IJR) in South Africa, Institute for Empirical Research in Political Economy (IREEP) of the African School of Economics at Abomey Calavi in Benin, Institute for Development Studies (IDS) at the University of Nairobi, the Institute for Democracy, Citizenship and Public Policy in Africa at the University of Cape Town and the Department of Political Science at Michigan State University.\n\nAfrobarometer surveys are conducted in more than 30 African countries and are repeated on a regular cycle. The Afrobarometer is carried on in Algeria, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Cote d'Ivoire, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Africa, South Sudan, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.\n\nAfrobarometer achieves this measurement through a series of face-to-face interviews with a random sample of either 1,200, 1,600 or 2,400 people in each country. Because the instrument asks a standard set of questions, countries can be systematically compared. Trends in public attitudes are tracked over time. Results are shared with decision makers, policy advocates, civic educators, journalists, researchers, donors and investors, as well as average Africans who wish to become more informed and active citizens.\n\nNew subnationally geocoded data covering 1999-2015 are now available through partnership with the development research lab AidData for Rounds 1-6. \n\nAs of March 2018, Afrobarometer data and publications had been cited over [8000] times.\n\nThe project has conducted six main rounds of surveys, covering a total of 35 African countries, as well as a number of individual surveys.\n\n\nAfrobarometer was founded by Professor Robert Mattes of the University of Cape Town and the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, Professor Michael Bratton of Michigan State University and Professor Emmanuel Gyimah-Boadi of the University of Ghana. Mattes is now senior advisor at Afrobarometer, Bratton is a former director of Afrobarometer and now senior advisor and Gyimah-Boadi is the current executive director of Afrobarometer and emeritus professor at the University of Ghana \n\nThe Afrobarometer currently covers twenty one survey topics: Conflict and crime, Democracy, Elections, Gender Equality, Governance, Identity, Macroeconomics and Markets, Political Participation, Poverty, Public Services, Social Capital, Tolerance, Access to Justice, Citizenship, China, Energy Supply, and Pan-Africanism/Regionalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2487003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2487003", "title": "Applied folklore", "text": "Applied folklore\n\nApplied folklore is the branch of folkloristics concerned with the study and use of folklore and traditional cultural materials to address or solve real social problems. The term was coined in 1939 in a talk by folklorist Benjamin A. Botkin who, along with Alan Lomax, became the foremost proponent of this approach over the next thirty years. Applied folklore is similar in its rationale and approach to applied anthropology and other applied social sciences, and like these other applied approaches often distinguishes itself from \"pure\" research, that which has no explicit problem-solving aims.\n\nBotkin's development of the approach emerged from his work on the collecting by the Federal Writers' Project of oral narratives of former slaves, when he worked for the Library of Congress. He saw the dissemination of these materials as having the potential to improve race relations in the United States and to combat prejudice. The abolition movement had similarly used the oral narratives of escaped slaves, such as those collected by William Still in his \"Underground Railroad Records\", to draw support for their cause. Botkin's landmark work, \"Lay My Burden Down\" (1945) was the first American book to treat oral testimonies as historical evidence, and it was another thirty years before this became accepted practice. Botkin also worked with Quaker activist Rachel Davis DuBois to develop public programs to improve race and ethnic relations by incorporating cultural practices and materials into neighborhood events, such as festivals and block parties. Independent of this, Myles Horton, Zilphia Horton, Guy Carawan, Candie Carawan, and others at the Highlander Folk School in Tennessee incorporated folk song and folk dance into the training of civil rights activists, such as Rosa Parks and John Lewis.\n\nIn the 1960s, other American folklorists began to apply knowledge gained from folkloric sources to address social issues, most notably drawing on folk medicine in the teaching and practice of holistic and cross-cultural approaches to medicine and public health. Folklorists also began to work as consultants in city planning, gerontology, economic development, multicultural education, conservation, and other fields.\n\n"}
{"id": "20324690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20324690", "title": "Archaeobiology", "text": "Archaeobiology\n\nArchaeobiology, the study of the biology of ancient times through archaeological materials, is a subspecialty of archaeology. It can be seen as a blanket term for paleobotany, animal osteology, zooarchaeology, microbiology, and many other sub-disciplines. Specifically, plant and animal remains are also called ecofacts. Sometimes these ecofacts can be left by humans and sometimes they can be naturally occurring. Archaeobiology tends to focus on more recent finds, so the difference between archaeobiology and palaeontology is mainly one of date: archaeobiologists typically work with more recent, non-fossilised material found at archaeological sites. Only very rarely are archaeobiological excavations performed at sites with no sign of human presence.\n\nThe prime interest of paleobotany is to reconstruct the vegetation that people in the past would have encountered in a particular place and time. Plant studies have always been overshadowed by faunal studies because bones are more conspicuous than plant remains when excavating. Collection of plant remains could everything including pollen, soil, diatoms, wood, plant remains and phytoliths. Phytoliths are sediments and diatoms are water deposits. Each plant remain can tell the archaeologist different things about the environment during a certain time period. Animal remains were the first evidence used by 19th century archaeologists. Today, archaeologists use faunal remains as a guide to the environment. It helps archaeologists understand whether the fauna were present naturally or through activities of carnivores or people. Archaeologists deal with macrofauna and microfauna. Microfauna are better indicators of climate and environmental change than larger species. These can be as small as a bug or as big as a fish or bird. Macrofauna helps archaeologists build a picture of past human diet.\n\nBacteria and Protists form two separate kingdoms, but both are fairly similar when compared. Bacteria are prokaryotic microorganisms, while protists are a group of eukaryotic organisms. Because both are microorganisms, both fall under the study of microbiology and special techniques are required for archaeologists to even see them.\nArchaeologists, in order to find these microorganisms in a site, have to first take samples from the site and bring them in for lab analysis. Once in the lab, they can use equipment such as optical microscopes, in order to actually see evidence of micro organic remains. Archaeologists that look at these microorganisms do not actually find the living bacteria or protist, but instead find indentations left behind in material from where they had been. Depending on where the indentations were in the strata, archaeologists can determine the age of the microorganisms.\n\nPaleomycology is the study of fungi in the fossil record. The study of past fungi can lead to the evolutionary past. Much of fungi are made up of parasites of animals, plants or insects. Most of the contemporary fungi resemble its ancestors, dating back over a million years ago. For example, “In the Dominican amber, a mosquito was found with several types of parasitic fungi growing on its outside cuticle. What is interesting is that the fungi resemble modern day fungi in class Trichomycetes, which are common gut-inhabiting zygomycetes of insects, but they differ from Trichomycetes in that the fungi are on the outside of the insect rather than the inside.” The study of ancient fungi can be used to track the evolution of fungi through millions of years.\n\nThe study of osteology is a study of bones and can be a subdiscipline in archeology. Osteologists in archeology reconstruct bones of humans or animals from the past to find more about the past civilizations. . Osteology is used in archaeology to determine the age, gender, and ethnicity of the remains. It is also helpful to rebuild past societies’ cultural background. Using the remains from the past can help modern archaeologist uncover the past from what they ate to their daily activities. This can help uncover the mysteries of past histories.\n\n"}
{"id": "43738681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43738681", "title": "Business History (journal)", "text": "Business History (journal)\n\nBusiness History is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering the field of business history. It was established in 1958 by Liverpool University Press and is now published by Taylor and Francis. The editor-in-chief is Ray Stokes (University of Glasgow).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2013 impact factor of 0.564.\n"}
{"id": "2052593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2052593", "title": "Clay nail", "text": "Clay nail\n\nUsed by Sumerians and other Mesopotamian cultures beginning in the third millennium BC, clay nails, also referred to as dedication or foundation pegs, cones, or nails, were cone-shaped nails made of clay, inscribed with cuneiform, baked, and stuck into the mud-brick walls to serve as evidence that the temple or building was the divine property of the god to whom it was dedicated. Versions were also made of metal, including castings with figurative designs, such as the Hurrian foundation pegs (Syria, c. 2300 – c. 2159 BCE).\n\nAdditionally, uninscribed clay cones painted in different colors were used by Sumerians to create decorative mosaic patterns on walls and pillars of buildings, which also offered some protection against weathering.\n\nThe similar funerary cones of ancient Egypt used the cone base as the major writing surface.\n\nAs some of the oldest 'documents' in history, the sponsor, responsible for the construction, or dedication of a work, some of the oldest histories, and/or intrigues are recorded. (Boasting sometimes led to historical inaccuracies, or misstatements of facts.)\n\nKing Entemena's nail is a prime example of a clay nail in excellent condition, as well as a detailed story. He was king of Lagash towards the late-middle of the 3rd millennium BC.\n\nOne of King Hammurabi's clay nails was acquired in March 1938 from an antique dealer. The nail, although fully preserved, is missing almost the entire shaft. The head has a diameter of 187 millimeters. In comparison, the shaft at the base is 110 millimeters in diameter. Both the head and shaft are inscribed with cuneiform writing in Akkadian. There are three columns of text on the head of the nail; the first column on the upper half having dulled over the course of centuries, and the lower half of the third column broken off. The clay nail bears the number A 24645 at the Oriental Institute, the University of Chicago's archaeology museum.\n\nThere are two replicas of the clay nail with the same inscription located at the University of Pennsylvania Museum and the Oxford Museum. However, each were transliterated and translated differently. The Philadelphia version is filled with missing text, although the complication was solved with the help of the Chicago version. Simultaneously, the Oxford text gives the Sumerian version. All three clay nails are now preserved in each of their respected locations. They are easily recognized to be from the Hammurabi period due to their distinct style of having a mushroom shape, broad heads, and short shafts.\n\n"}
{"id": "23227760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23227760", "title": "Commissioned survey", "text": "Commissioned survey\n\nA commissioned survey is a kind of archaeological and social survey performed in return for money or goods. Typically, these surveys were conducted in the pre colonial Era, as part of Age of European Enlightenment to study territories before colonization. They would usually extend to significant and detailed efforts by trading companies to study institutions of indigenous communities as a precursor to colonial powers exerting colonial supremacy. An example would be when soldiers of East India Company were paid fees to study exotic lands, customs, cultures and literatures of the colonized world. The end product of a commissioned survey would usually be a report or book in a European language, which could form a basis for law making by colonial powers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2619523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2619523", "title": "David Fromkin", "text": "David Fromkin\n\nDavid Henry Fromkin (August 27, 1932 June 11, 2017) was an American author, lawyer, and historian, best known for his historical account on the Middle East, \"A Peace to End All Peace\" (1989), in which he recounts the role European powers played between 1914 and 1922 in creating the modern Middle East. The book was a finalist for both the National Book Critics Circle Award and the Pulitzer Prize. Fromkin has written seven books in total, with his most recent in 2007, \"The King and the Cowboy: Theodore Roosevelt and Edward the Seventh, Secret Partners\"\n\nDavid Fromkin was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on August 27, 1932. He died in New York City on June 11, 2017.\n\nA graduate of the University of Chicago and the University of Chicago Law School, he was Professor Emeritus of History and International Relations, and Law at the Pardee School of Global Studies at Boston University, where he was also the Director of The Frederick S. Pardee Center for the Study of the Long-Range Future. He is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.\n\nBefore his career as a historian, Prof. Fromkin was an attorney and political adviser. In the 1972 Democratic primary campaign, he served as a foreign-policy adviser to candidate Hubert Humphrey. As an attorney, he served as both prosecutor and defense counsel in the Army Judge Advocate General's Corps, then as an associate at the law firm of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett.\n\nNoam Chomsky criticized Fromkin for his portrayal of the US-backed NATO intervention in the Kosovo War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40150388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40150388", "title": "Deep social mind", "text": "Deep social mind\n\nDeep social mind is a concept in evolutionary psychology; it refers to the distinctively human capacity to 'read' (that is, to infer) the mental states of others while reciprocally enabling those others to read one's own mental states at the same time. The term 'deep social mind' was first coined in 1999 by Andrew Whiten, professor of Evolutionary and Developmental Psychology at St. Andrews University, Scotland. Together with closely related terms such as 'reflexivity' and 'intersubjectivity', it is now well-established among scholars investigating the evolutionary emergence of human sociality, cognition and communication.\n\nIt is widely agreed that the brain is social in both human and nonhuman primates. But, according to Andrew Whiten, human sociality goes much further than ape sociality. Ape social intelligence is overwhelmingly 'Machiavellian' in the sense of scheming, self-interested and egotistically calculating.\n\nOne consequence is that while an ape may be motivated to 'read' (that is, to infer) the mental states of others around it, it has little motive to reciprocate. Instead of making its own mental states transparent to potential rivals, it seeks to block others from 'reading' its own mind. For example, one way to infer what another primate might be thinking is to detect which way its head is pointed, so as to reconstruct what it might be looking at. In the case of gorillas and chimpanzees, adult apes have evolved eyes which give away very little information concerning direction of gaze. Their eyes are dark-on-dark: the iris is dark brown or even black and the same applies to the sclera and surrounding skin. Looking at the eyes, therefore, it is not easy to detect direction of gaze. In the human case, the eyes are very different, the dark iris standing out against a white surrounding sclera. This feature, combined with the relatively large size of the human eye and its horizontally elongated shape, assists neighbouring conspecifics to detect direction of gaze and, on that basis, engage in mind-reading.\n\nAccording to the 'Deep Social Mind' theory, this means that humans have become cognitively adapted to reflexivity and intersubjectivity: as a species, we are well-adapted to read the minds of trusted others while at the same time assisting those others in reading our own minds. One consequence of this is self-awareness or 'egocentric perspective reversal': I read your mind as you are reading mine. Therefore, between us, we can gain an awareness of our own minds as if from the outside: my mental states as these are reflected in yours and yours as they are reflected in mine. In that sense, if this argument is accepted, our minds mutually interpenetrate. 'Mind' in the human sense is not locked inside this or that skull but instead is relational, stretching between us. According to evolutionary psychologist Michael Tomasello, a human child normally achieves egocentric perspective reversal — viewing its own mental states as if from the standpoint of others — at around one year of age.\n"}
{"id": "57716822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57716822", "title": "Della Gherardesca Tomb", "text": "Della Gherardesca Tomb\n\nThe Della Gherardesca Tomb is a set of early 14th century sculptures from the tomb of the Della Gherardesca family in Pisa, originally in the church of San Francesco, of which they were patrons. Its sculptor was Lupo di Francesco.\n\nOriginally multicoloured (traces of colour are still visible), the set includes a sarcophagus, statues and Gothic arches. The church was converted into a barracks during Florentine and French rule and the tomb was split up. The arches and some of the statues are now in the Museo nazionale di San Matteo, whilst the sarcophagus is now in the Camposanto Monumentale, where it was seriously damaged during a fire in 1944 - it was restored after the Second World War, although some parts were not replaced.\n\n"}
{"id": "2231007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2231007", "title": "Doubly articulated consonant", "text": "Doubly articulated consonant\n\nDoubly articulated consonants are consonants with two simultaneous primary places of articulation of the same manner (both plosive, or both nasal, etc.). They are a subset of co-articulated consonants. They are to be distinguished from co-articulated consonants with secondary articulation; that is, a second articulation not of the same manner. An example of a doubly articulated consonant is the voiceless labial-velar plosive , which is a and a pronounced simultaneously. On the other hand, the voiceless labialized velar plosive has only a single stop articulation, velar (), with a simultaneous approximant-like rounding of the lips. In some dialects of Arabic, the voiceless velar fricative has a simultaneous uvular trill, but this is not considered double articulation either.\n\nThere are four independently controllable articulations that may double up in the same manner of articulation: labial, coronal, dorsal, and pharyngeal. (The glottis controls phonation, and works simultaneously with many consonants. It is not normally considered an articulator, and an ejective , with simultaneous closure of the velum and glottis, is not considered a doubly articulated consonant.)\n\nApproximant consonants, such as and , may be either doubly or secondarily articulated. For example, in English, is a labialized velar that could be transcribed as , but the Japanese is closer to a true labial–velar . However, it is normal practice to use the symbols and for the labialized approximants, and some linguists restrict the symbols to that usage.\n\nNo claims have ever been made for doubly articulated flaps or trills, such as a simultaneous alveolar–uvular trill, , and these are not expected to be found. Several claims \"have\" been made for doubly articulated fricatives or affricates, most notoriously a Swedish phoneme which has its own IPA symbol, . However, laboratory measurements have never succeeded in demonstrating simultaneous frication at two points of articulation, and such sounds turn out to be either secondary articulation, or a sequence of two non-simultaneous fricatives. (Despite its name, the \"voiceless labial-velar fricative\" is actually a voiceless approximant; the name is a historical remnant from before the distinction was made.) Such sounds can be made, with effort, but it is very difficult for a listener to discern them, and therefore they are not expected to be found as distinctive sounds in any language.\n\nClicks are sometimes said to be doubly articulated, as they involve a coronal (more rarely labial) forward articulation, which defines the various 'types' of clicks and the IPA letter assigned to them, plus a dorsal closure. However, this second, dorsal place of closure functions as part of the controlling mechanism of the lingual ingressive airstream used to generate the click. Thus, much as the glottal closure of ejectives (the airstream-generating mechanism of such consonants) is not considered to be a second place of articulation, clicks are not generally described as such either. Indeed, it is possible to have a true doubly articulated click, such as the labial-dental allophone, , of the bilabial click in Taa.\n\nThis leaves stops, and both oral and nasal doubly articulated stops are found. However, there is a great asymmetry in the places of their articulation. Of the six possible combinations of \"labial\", \"coronal\", \"dorsal\", and \"pharyngeal\", one is common, and the others vanishingly rare.\n\n\nTriply articulated consonants are only attested as glottalized doubly articulated consonants, and this can be argued to be an effect of phonation or airstream mechanism rather than as a third articulation, just as other glottalized consonants are not considered to be doubly articulated. The most obvious case are the various types of glottalized clicks mentioned above. Another example is 'unreleased' final in Vietnamese, which after or is often labial-velar .\n\nIt is possible that some speakers of British English may in fact articulate the alveolar approximant, /ɹ/, with additional labiodental and velar approximation as well as lip rounding, resulting in a triply articulated approximant, [ʋ͡ɹɰʷ].\n\n"}
{"id": "30506803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30506803", "title": "Eastern sigillata B", "text": "Eastern sigillata B\n\nEastern sigillata B is a category of Early Roman \"terra sigillata\". Workshops have been identified in Tralles in western Asia Minor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000713", "title": "Fa'afafine", "text": "Fa'afafine\n\nFa'afafine are people who identify themselves as having a third-gender or non-binary role in Samoa, American Samoa and the Samoan diaspora. A recognized gender identity/gender role in traditional Samoan society, and an integral part of Samoan culture, \"fa'afafine\" are assigned male at birth, and explicitly embody both masculine and feminine gender traits in a way unique to Polynesia. Their behavior typically ranges from extravagantly feminine to conventionally masculine.\n\nA prominent Western theory, among the many anthropological theories about Samoans, was that if a family had more boys than girls or not enough girls to help with women's duties about the house, male children would be chosen to be raised as \"fa'afafine\"; although this theory has been refuted by studies.\n\nIt has been estimated that 1-5% of Samoans identify as \"fa'afafine\". estimates that there are 500 \"fa’afafine\" in Samoa, and the same number in the Samoan diaspora in New Zealand; while according to SBS news, there are up to 3000 \"fa'afafine\" currently living in Samoa.\n\nThe word \"fa'afafine\" includes the causative prefix \"fa'a–\", meaning \"in the manner of\", and the word \"fafine\", meaning \"woman\". It is cognate with linguistically related words or social categories in other Polynesian languages, such as the Tongan \"fakaleiti\" (also \"fakafefine\"), the Cook Islands Māori \"akava'ine\", the Hawaiian and Tahitian \"māhū\" (literally \"in the middle\"), the Māori \"whakawāhine\", the Niuean \"fiafifine\" (also \"fakafifine\"), the Tokelauan \"fakafāfine\", the Tuvaluan \"pinapinaaine\", the Gilbertese \"binabinaaine\", and the Wallisian \"fakafafine\".\n\nThe FTM or female-to-male equivalent in Samoa are known variously as \"fa'atane\", \"fa'atama\", and \"fafatama\". Ultimately, Western terms like gay, transgender, FTM, etc., do not align exactly with Samoan terms like fa'afafine, fa'atane, etc., which have meaning within the fa'asamoa traditional cultural systems of Samoa.\n\nThe Samoan slang word \"mala\" (or \"devastation\" in the Samoan language) is in less frequent use for fa'afafine, as it arose from fundamentalist influenced homophobia and transphobia.\n\nThe history of Fa'afafine, through the elisions of colonialism, is difficult to trace. Nafanua, the FTM warrior and chief of Samoan early history, is often held up as an icon of Faafafine and Faatane/Fafatama. In Dolgoy's recorded interviews with faafafine from the 1980s, we know that Johnny Fruitcake was a popular faafafine during the American military occupation of Samoa in World War II; and that Anita (Tony Schwenke) was the founder of Hollywood, a tailoring shop and house of refuge for faafafine in Apia in the 1960s-1970s. Beginning in the 1980s, through the Samoan diaspora, Faafafine began having a presence in contemporary global cultures.\n\nFa'afafine are known for their hard work and dedication to the family, in the Samoan tradition of \"tautua\" or service to family. Ideas of the family in Samoa and Polynesia are markedly different from Western constructions, and include all the members of a \"sa\", or communal family within the \"fa'amatai\" family systems.\n\nFa'afafine, as a third gender, have sexual relationships almost exclusively with men who do not identify as fa'afafine, and sometimes with women, but apparently not with other fa'afafine. This third gender is so well-accepted in Samoan culture that most Samoans state that they have friendship relationships with at least one fa'afafine; it is, however, not totally accepted in other communities, such as some Catholic groups and traditional leaders. Traditionally, fa'afafine follow the training of the women's daily work in an \"Aiga\" (Samoan family group).\n\nFa'afafine state that they \"loved\" engaging in feminine activities as children, such as playing with female peers, playing female characters during role play, dressing up in female clothes, and playing with female gender-typical toys. This is in contrast to women who stated that they merely \"liked\" engaging in those activities as children. Some fa'afafine recall believing they were girls in childhood, but knew better as adults. In Samoa, there is very seldom ridicule or displeasure towards a biologically male child who states that they are a girl. For instance, one study showed only a minority of parents (20 percent) tried to stop their fa'afafine children from engaging in feminine behavior. Being pushed into the male gender role is upsetting to many fa'afafine. A significant number stated that they \"hated\" masculine play, such as rough games and sports, even more than females did as children.\n\nThe Society of Fa'afafine in American Samoa or \"Le Sosaiete o Fa’afafine i Amerika Samoa\" (S.O.F.I.A.S) is an organization designed to foster collaboration between the fa'afafine and the LGBTQI+ communities in both American Samoa, the Asia Pacific region, and the world. SOFIAS describes itself as an organization dedicated to balancing both Samoan values with western influences and aims to promote a positive attitude toward the Samoan fa'afafine community. Now known as \"Miss SOFIAS\", the Miss Island Queen Pageant has been held in Pago Pago, American Samoa, since 1979.\n\nThe Samoan Faafafine Association Incorporated (S.F.A.) of independent Samoa, based in Apia, has been active for over a decade. It works closely with government, local churches, and youth organizations, supporting community projects for the faafafine community, but also for elders and youth in Samoa. SFA has been active on the international level working with the United Nations and Pacific regional NGO's, on behalf of the fa'afafine, transgender, and LGBT communities of the Pacific Islands. They also been active working with media developing a more equitable representation of fa'afafine by media.\n\nThere has been legislative activity initiated in Samoa by the Samoa Faafafine Association, with faafafine lawyers Alex Su'a and Phineas Hartson Matautia, on issues of LGBT rights in Samoa. Their efforts to repeal homophobic and transphobic laws inherited from the British and New Zealand colonial administrations have met with partial success. Marriage equality for fa'afafine is still unlawful in Samoa; and despite marriage equality legalization in the U.S., it is still not recognized in the US Territory of American Samoa.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9561971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9561971", "title": "Facts on the Ground", "text": "Facts on the Ground\n\nFacts on the Ground: Archaeological Practice and Territorial Self-Fashioning in Israeli Society is a 2001 book by Nadia Abu El Haj based on her doctoral thesis for Duke University. The book has been praised by some scholars and criticised by others.\n\nControversy over the book intensified five years after its publication, after news emerged in 2006 that Abu El Haj was under consideration for tenure at Barnard College where she served as an assistant professor. Barnard alumnae mounted a campaign to deny tenure to Abu El Haj that centered on what they described as the book's anti-Israel bias, prompting a counter-campaign in support of the book and Abu El Haj. The University ultimately granted Abu El Haj tenure in November 2007.\n\nIn the book, Abu El Haj uses anthropological methods to study the relationship between the development of scientific knowledge in Israeli archaeology and the construction of the social imaginations and political orders in the Israeli State and what she characterizes as the \"formation and enactment of its colonial-national historical imagination and...the substantiation of its territorial claims\". She argues that facts generated by archaeological practice have fashioned \"cultural understandings, political possibilities and 'common-sense' assumptions\".\n\nIn her introduction, Abu El Haj sympathetically cites critics who reject \"a positivist commitment to scientific method whereby politics is seen to intervene only in instances of bad science,\" favoring various approaches such as \"post-structuralism, philosophical critiques of foundationalism, Marxism and critical theory\" with \"a commitment to understanding archeology as necessarily political.\"\n\n\"Facts on the Ground\" has been widely reviewed in both scholarly and popular publications. It was one of the winners of the 2002 Albert Hourani Book Award, granted by the Middle East Studies Association of North America for outstanding publishing in Middle East studies. Jere Bacharach, a MESA member and historian at the University of Washington, described the book as a \"nuanced, nonpolemic work\".\n\nThe book has received both accolades, particularly from Abu El Haj's fellow anthropologists, and denunciations, from some archaeologists, whose colleagues' work she criticizes. According to Jane Kramer, writing in \"The New Yorker\", \"the book was praised by colleagues who responded to the critical tropes that were Abu El Haj's legacy from scholars like Michel Foucault, Ian Hacking, Bruno Latour, and Edward Said, and dismissed by colleagues with a theoretical or a political or simply a turf interest in dismissing it.\"\n\nIn the \"MIT Electronic Journal of Middle East Studies\", Elia Zureik, a professor of sociology at Queen's University, writes that Abu El Haj's \"use of the sociology of science as a perspective in her research is both clever and refreshing. It further elevates research about Palestine to new heights, by placing it squarely in current social science literature and debates. We need more such studies.\"\n\nEdward Said wrote of being \"indebted\" to the book and work of Abu El Haj, in \"Freud and the Non-European\" (2003), offering that:\n\nWhat she provides first of all is a history of systematic colonial archaeological exploration in Palestine, dating back to British work in the mid-nineteenth century. She then continues the story in the period before Israel is established, connecting the actual practice of archaeology with a nascent national ideology - an ideology with plans for the repossession of the land through renaming and resettling, much of it given archeological justification as a schematic extraction of Jewish identity despite the existence of Arab names and traces of other civilizations. This effort, she argues convincingly, epistemologically prepares the way for a fully fledged post-1948 sense of Israeli-Jewish identity based on assembling discrete archaeological particulars -scattered remnants of masonry, tablets, bones, tombs...\"\n\nIn her review of \"Facts on the Ground\" for \"American Ethnologist\", Kimbra L. Smith professor of anthropology at the University of Colorado at Colorado Springs, writes that \"Abu El Haj provides an important and timely look at some of the politics of self-representation behind the Israeli government's public face, within a broader argument about science's capacity for political involvement and for maintaining and even advancing colonialist policies. However [...] her failure to present either official Palestinian or public Palestinian/Israeli opinions and attitudes within the context of Israel's (settler) nationalist-archaeological discipline means that answers to the excellent questions she raises are never made clear.\"\n\nApen Ruiz, at the University of Texas at Austin, writes in H-Net that \"\"Facts on the Ground\" offers a unique and pioneering approach to examine the politics of archaeological research.\" He explains that, \"Inspired by cultural and social studies of science, El-Haj puts archaeology under an ethnographic lens and examines its practices: excavating, surveying, cataloguing, naming, mapping, and exhibiting,\" noting that it is this, \"focus on archaeological practices as the main object of study,\" that is the \"primary contribution of the book\".\n\nAren Maeir, professor of archaeology at Bar Ilan University, writing in \"Isis\", calls the book \"a highly ideologically driven political manifesto, with a glaring lack of attention both to details and to the broader context.\" Regarding Abu El Haj's criticism of methodology in Israeli archeology, Maeir writes, that in contemporary archeology in Israel, \"only marginal elements act in accordance with or identify with the non-scientific agendas that she attempts to delineate.\" Maeir argues that the major reason for the lateness of Israel to adopt modern techniques was not a \"hidden colonial agenda,\" but rather a result of the \"European classical archeology\" from which it developed.\n\nJames Gelvin, a UCLA historian, describes \"Facts on the Ground\" in his book \"The Israel-Palestine Conflict: One Hundred Years of War\", as \"probably the most sophisticated presentation of Israel's archaeological obsession and its relation to nationalism and 'colonial knowledge'\".\n\nAlexander H. Joffe, an archaeologist and past director of the pro-Israel organization Campus Watch, writes in the \"Journal of Near Eastern Studies\" that \"Abu El Haj's anthropology is undone by her [...] ill-informed narrative, intrusive counter-politics, and by her unwillingness to either enter or observe Israeli society [...] The effect is a representation of Israeli archaeology that is simply bizarre.\" \n\nKeith Whitelam, professor of religious studies at the University of Sheffield and author of \"The Invention of Ancient Israel: The Silencing of Palestinian History\", told a \"New York Sun\" reporter that \"Facts on the Ground\" was a \"first-rate book,\" which made \"a very fine contribution\" to the study of \"how national identity is constructed and the assumptions which are then built into academic work on history and archaeology.\" In the same article, William Dever, a retired professor of Middle Eastern archaeology at the University of Arizona, describes Abu El Haj's scholarship as \"faulty, misleading and dangerous\".\n\nAlan F. Segal, a professor of religion and Jewish studies at Barnard College, has been a vocal critic of the book. In the \"Columbia Daily Spectator\", he writes that Abu El Haj's work is tainted by a failure to examine primary sources in Hebrew, a reliance on anonymous sources, and a lack of breadth in its review of scholarship to date. According to Segal, Abu El Haj focuses her attention on the \"extreme conclusions\" of \"biblical minimalists\" who constitute \"no more than a handful of scholars\" out of \"thousands at work (in Biblical scholarship) in the world\". Segal writes that \"none of the minimalist scholars she relies upon for this purpose is actually a working archaeologist,\" and that \"pretty much every other one of the virtually countless theories about Israelite settlement in First Temple times would disprove her hypothesis about Israeli archaeology.\" He adds that she \"does not tell her readers about\" these fields, \"why they are necessary\", or, \"how decisions are actually made in biblical studies.\"\n\nIn the fall 2007 issue of \"The Current\", there was criticism of Abu El Haj from three different scholars. First, David M. Rosen, professor of anthropology at Fairleigh Dickinson University asks, \"How can a work that apparently demonstrates an impaired understanding of the archeological sciences be regarded as good anthropology?\" Answering his own question, he offers that while in the contemporary political climate, \"One hardly needs to be Braveheart to be openly antagonistic to Israel at a meeting of anthropologists,\" the more serious problem lies in the tradition of post-colonial studies, where anthropologists like Abu El Haj can \"construct their analyses with little concern for empirical or logical connectedness. Like mythology, they are masters of the found object, and pull in anything to create a story. This methodology has no connection to science. Its power lies in its politics and its aesthetics, and not in such boring ideas as validity and reliability.\" In the same issue, Jonathan Rosenbaum, paleographer and President of Gratz College, suggests that Abu El Haj's \"personal agenda\" is \"the furtherance of her own nationalistic ideology at the expense of decades of careful excavations and rigorous publications\" establishing the historicity of much of the Biblical narrative. Finally, James R. Russell, a professor at Harvard University, describes \"Facts on the Ground\" as a \"malign fantasy\" designed to demonstrate the\n\"colonial essence\" of Zionism by denying the history of ancient \"Jewish sovereignty and long historical presence.\" \n\nOne controversy related to the book came from a passage in \"Facts on the Ground\" in which Abu El Haj wrote that during a dig in Jezreel, British and Israeli archaeologists used \"bulldozers ... in order to get down to the earlier strata, which are saturated with national significance, as quickly as possible.\" She noted that \"among Palestinian officials at the Haram al-Sharif and the Awqaf as well as many other archaeologists ... the use of bulldozers has become the ultimate sign of 'bad science' and of nationalist politics guiding research agendas.\" She wrote that the incident took place \"a week after [she] stopped participating in the excavations\" and attributed the account to \"several participants, both archaeologists and student volunteers,\" whom she did not name.\n\nThe dig in question was led by David Ussishkin of the University of Tel Aviv, who responded to Abu El Haj's characterization in an open letter published on the internet in December 2006. While confirming that the earlier strata was the main interest of the dig, Ussishkin denied that any damage was done to other strata, which he insisted were properly excavated. Ussishkin defended the use of the bulldozer at the site as being necessary to properly excavate the site, and said he did not believe it had caused any damage.\n\nIn September 2007, archaeologist Aren Maeir, in an opinion column in the \"Columbia Daily Spectator\" student newspaper, wrote, \"In her book she attacks, harangues, vilifies and slanders respected archaeologists in the field.\" According to Maeir, Abu El Haj's assertions concerning Ussishkin are \"analogous to accusing a surgeon of deciding whether to use a scalpel or a hacksaw according to the patient’s ethnic 'identity'\" and \"an attempt to prevent him from doing his work.\"\n\nAbu El Haj does not mention Ussishkin by name in her book.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1751751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1751751", "title": "Guaracha", "text": "Guaracha\n\nThe guaracha () is a genre of Cuban popular music, of rapid tempo and comic or picaresque lyrics. The word had been used in this sense at least since the late 18th and early 19th century. Guarachas were played and sung in musical theatres and in low-class dance salons. They became an integral part of bufo comic theatre in the mid-19th century. During the later 19th and the early 20th century the guaracha was a favourite musical form in the brothels of Havana. The guaracha survives today in the repertoires of some trova musicians, conjuntos and Cuban-style big bands.\n\nThough the word may be historically of Spanish origin, its use in this context is of indigenous Cuban origin. These are excerpts from reference sources, in date order: A Latin American carol \"Convidando esta la noche\" dates from at least the mid 17th century and both mentions and is a guaracha. It was composed or collected by Juan Garcia de Zespedes, 1620-1678, Puebla, Mexico. This is a Spanish guaracha, a musical style popular in Caribbean colonies. \"Happily celebrating, some lovely shepherds sing the new style of juguetes for a guaracha. In this guaracha we celebrate while the baby boy is lost in dreams. Play and dance because we have fire in the ice and ice in the fire.\" \n\nThese references are all to music; but whether of the same type is not quite clear. The usage of guaracha is sometimes extended, then meaning, generally, to have a good time. A different sense of the word means jest or diversion.\n\nOn January 20, 1801, Buenaventura Pascual Ferrer published a note in a newspaper called “El Regañón de La Habana,” in which he refers to certain chants that “run outside there through vulgar voices”. Between them he mentioned a “guaracha” named “La Guabina”, about which he says: “in the voice of those that sings it, tastes like any thing dirty, indecent or disgusting that you can think about…” At a later time, in an undetermined date, “La Guabina” appears published between the first musical scores printed in Havana at the beginning of the 19th century.\n\nAccording to the commentaries published in “El Regañón de La Habana”, we can conclude that those “guarachas” were very popular within the Havana population at that time, because in the same previously mentioned article the author says: “…but most importantly, what bothers me most is the liberty with which a number of chants are sung throughout the streets and town homes, where innocence is insulted and morals offended… by many individuals, not just of the lowest class, but also by some people that are supposed to be called well educated…”. Therefore, we can say that those “guarachas” of a very audacious content, were apparently already sung within a wide social sector of the Havana population.\n\nBuenaventura Pascual Ferrer mentions also that at the beginning of the 19th century up to fifty dance parties were held in Havana every day, where the famous “Guaracha” was sung and danced among other popular pieces.\n\nThere is little evidence as to what style of dance was originally performed to the guaracha in Cuba. Some engravings from the 19th century suggest that it was a dance of independent couples, that is, \"not\" a sequence dance such as the contradanza. The prototype independent couples dance was the waltz (early 19th century \"Vals\" in Cuba). The first creole dance form in Cuba known for certain to be danced by independent couples was the danzón. If the guaracha is an earlier example, this would be interesting from a dance history point of view.\n\nDuring the 19th century, the bufo theatre, with its robust humour, its creolized characters and its guarachas, played a part in the movement for the emancipation of slaves and the independence of Cuba. They played a part in criticising authorities, lampooning public figures and supporting heroic revolutionaries. Satire and humour are significant weapons for a subjugated people.\n\nIn 1869 at the \"Teatro Villanueva\" in Havana an anti-Spanish bufo was playing, when suddenly some Spanish Voluntarios attacked the theatre, killing some ten or so patrons. The context was that the Ten Years' War had started the previous year, when Carlos Manuel de Céspedes had freed his slaves, and declared Cuban independence. Creole sentiments were running high, and the Colonial government and their rich Spanish traders were reacting. Not for the first or the last time, politics and music were closely intertwined, for musicians had been integrated since before 1800. Bufo theatres were shut down for some years after this tragic event.\n\nIn bufos the guaracha would occur at places indicated by the author: guaracheros would enter in coloured shirts, white trousers and boots, handkerchiefs on their heads, the women in white coats, and the group would perform the guaracha. In general the guaracha would involve a dialogue between the tiple, the tenor and the chorus. The best period of the guaracha on stage was early in the 20th century in the \"Alhambra\" theatre in Havana, when such composers as Jorge Anckermann, José Marín Varona and Manuel Mauri wrote numbers for the top stage singer Adolfo Colombo. Most of the leading trova musicians wrote guarachas: Pepe Sánchez, Sindo Garay, Manuel Corona, and later Ñico Saquito.\n\nThe use of lyrics in theatre music is common, but their use in popular dance music was not common in the 18th and 19th centuries. Only the habanera had sung lyrics, and the guaracha definitely predates the habanera by some decades. Therefore, the guaracha is the first Cuban creole dance music which included singers.\n\nThe Havana \"Diario de la Marina\" of 1868 says: \"The bufo troupe, we think, has an extensive repertory of tasty guarachas, with which to keep its public happy, better than the Italian songs.\" The lyrics were full of slang, and dwelt on events and people in the news. Rhythmically, guaracha exhibits a series of rhythm combinations, such as with .\n\nAlejo Carpentier quotes a number of guaracha verses that illustrate the style:\n\nIn the mid-20th century the style was taken up by the conjuntos and big bands as a type of up-tempo music. Many of the early trovadores, such as Manuel Corona (who worked in a brothel area of Havana), composed and sung guarachas as a balance for the slower boleros and canciónes. Ñico Saquito was primarily a singer and composer of guarachas. The satirical lyric content also fitted well with the son, and many bands played both genres. Today it seems scarcely to exist as a distinct musical form, except in the hands of trova musicians; in larger groups it has been absorbed into the vast maw of Salsa.\n\nSingers who could handle the fast lyrics and were good improvisors were called \"guaracheros\" or \"guaracheras\". Celia Cruz was an example, though she, like Miguelito Valdés and Benny Moré, sung almost every type of Cuban lyric well. A better example is Cascarita (Orlando Guerra) who was distinctly less comfortable with boleros, but brilliant with fast numbers. In modern Cuban music so many threads are interwoven that one cannot easily distinguish these older roots. Perhaps in the lyrics of Los Van Van the topicality and sauciness of the old guarachas found new life, though the rhythm would have surprised the old-timers.\n\nAmong other composers who have written Guarachas is Morton Gould – the piece is found in the third movement of his Latin American Symphonette (Symphonette No. 4) (1940). Later in the 1980s Pedro Luis Ferrer and Virulo (Alejandro García Villalón) sought to renovate the guaracha, devising modern takes on the old themes.\n\nDuring the 19th century, many Bufo Theater Companies arrived in Puerto Rico from Cuba, and they brought with them the Guaracha. At a later time the Guaracha was adopted in Puerto Rico and became part of the Puerto Rican musical tradition, such as the “Rosarios Cantaos”, the Baquiné, the Christmas songs and the Children’s songs.\n\nThe Guaracha is a style of song-dance which is also considered music for the Christmas “Parrandas” and concert popular music. Several modern genres, such as Rumba and Salsa are considered to be influenced by the Guaracha. The Guaracha has been cultivated during the 20th century by Puerto Rican musicians such as Rafael Hernández, Pedro Flores, Bobby Capó, Tite Curet, Rafael Cortijo, Ismael Rivera, Francisco Alvarado, Luigi Teixidor and “El Gran Combo”.\n\nSome famous Guarachas are: Hermoso Bouquet, Pueblo Latino, Borracho no vale, Compay póngase duro, Mujer trigueña, Marinerito and Piel Canela.\n\n"}
{"id": "2104491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2104491", "title": "Haiga", "text": "Haiga\n\nStylistically, \"haiga\" vary widely based on the preferences and training of the individual painter, but generally show influences of formal Kanō school painting, minimalist Zen painting, and Ōtsu-e, while sharing much of the aesthetic attitudes of the \"nanga\" tradition. Some were reproduced as woodblock prints. The subjects painted likewise vary widely, but are generally elements mentioned in the calligraphy, or poetic images which add meaning or depth to that expressed by the poem. The moon is a common subject in these poems and paintings, sometimes represented by the Zen circle \"ensō\", which evokes a number of other meanings, including that of the void. Other subjects, ranging from Mount Fuji to rooftops, are frequently represented with a minimum of brushstrokes, thus evoking elegance and beauty in simplicity.\n\nNonoguchi Ryūho (1595–1669), a student of Kanō Tan'yū, is sometimes credited with founding the style; though poetry was commonly accompanied by images for centuries prior, Ryūho was the first poet to regularly include paintings alongside his calligraphy.\n\nMatsuo Bashō, known worldwide as the definitive master of haiku, frequently painted as well. \"Haiga\" became a major style of painting as a result of association with his famous works of haiku. Like his poems, Bashō's paintings are founded in a simplicity which reveals great depth, complementing the poems they are paired with. Towards the end of his life, he studied painting under Morikawa Kyoriku, his pupil in poetry; the works of both men benefited from the exchange, and a number of works were produced combining Morikawa's painting with Bashō's poetry and calligraphy.\n\nComposing haiku, and painting accompanying pictures, was a common pastime of Edo period aesthetes, who would pursue these activities in their spare time, or at friendly gatherings as a communal form of entertainment. The famous novelist Ihara Saikaku was one of many people not normally associated with either poetry or painting, who took part. By contrast, the \"nanga\" painter Yosa Buson, widely considered second only to Bashō as a master of haiku, is said to be \"the only artist to be included in surveys both of great poets and great painters in Japanese history.\"\n\nUnlike other schools of painting which maintained a standard set of styles passed from master to apprentice, the genre of \"haiga\" encompassed a variety of artists with different approaches. Some, like Bashō, were primarily poets, accompanying their compositions with simple sketches, while others, like Buson, were primarily painters, devoting more space and centrality of focus to the image. Maruyama Goshun and Ki Baitei were among those who tended to paint portraits of poets and other figures in a relatively quick, loose style which looks somewhat cartoonish to the modern eye. Some \"haiga\" paintings, such as those by Morikawa Kyoriku, reflect the formal training of the artists, while others, like those by Nakahara Nantenbō, reflect the artist's background in Zen.\n\nOne overall trend that developed over time, despite this wide variety, was a shift from the circles of literati (\"bunjin\") painters to the orbit of the Shijō school of the naturalistic painter Maruyama Ōkyo. This move was effected primarily by Maruyama Goshun, and can be seen as well in the works of Yamaguchi Soken. Some later painters, such as Takebe Sōchō, were influenced by \"ukiyo-e\" styles, and used color in highly detailed works.\n\nThough traditional-style \"haiga\" are still produced today, contemporary artists experiment with the style, coupling haiku with digital imagery, photography, and other media.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10512779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10512779", "title": "Iatrophysics", "text": "Iatrophysics\n\nIatrophysics or iatromechanics (fr. Greek) is the medical application of physics. It provides an explanation for medical practices with mechanical principles. It was a school of medicine in the seventeenth century which attempted to explain physiological phenomena in mechanical terms. Believers of iatromechanics thought that physiological phenomena of the human body followed the laws of physics. It was related to iatrochemistry in studying the human body in a systematic manner based on observations from the natural world though it had more emphasis on mathematical models rather than chemical processes.\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment was an era of radically changing ways of thought in Western politics, philosophy, and science. Major sociological changes occurred in the Enlightenment, as well as industrial and scientific. In medicine, the Enlightenment brought several discoveries and studies that were impacted by changing ways of thought. For example, discovery of capillaries were made by Marcello Malpighi. Jean Baptiste von Helmonni (1577-1644) also was the first to consider digestion a fermentation process. He also identified hydrochloric acid in the stomach. Pathological anatomy and clinical observation were also being integrated into the medical curriculum. The Enlightenment also directly influenced the field of Iatrophysics through the development of Antonie von Leeuwenhoek's microscope, the advancement of the field of ophthalmology through the use of physics by René Descartes, and Newton's law of universal gravitation and idea of gravitational force.\n\nIatrophysicists drew inspiration from various established physical phenomena in order to explain how certain biological processes took place and how this can be applied towards medicine.\n\nA key component of iatrophysical anatomy was the study of particles. This was particularly influenced by 17th century developments in microbiology, the most prominent being the microscope. Antonie von Leeuwenhoeck was a Dutch scientist who is known for his use of the microscope for identifying single-celled organisms. He was also the first to observe muscle fibers, bacteria, spermatozoa and blood flow in capillaries. Another famous figure in microbiology at the time was Robert Hooke, an English scientist most famous for his use of the microscope for the discovery of cells. In his most famous work, \"Micrographia\" (1665)\",\" he attributed “occult properties” as elementary “contrivances of nature”. Like Galileo Galilei, he shared an iatrophysical viewpoint and saw living organisms as groups of small machines. The development of the microscope was largely influential in this view.\n\nMachines were used as models by Iatrophysicists to quantitatively describe linear and rotational motion of various biological systems such as human limbs and animals. Some models came into existence before Isaac Newton's formulation of his three laws in classical mechanics, drawing on basic principles of statics and dynamics to represent how a biological system behaved. Giovanni Borelli was prolific in applying mechanics to a wide variety of humans and animals in different degrees of activity, drawing upon an array of simple machines and models for translational and rotational motion and equilibrium.\n\nIatrophysicists were also interested in studying how bodily liquids and gases were processed. They sought to understand how blood circulated throughout the body and what effects it made on the body. System consisted of arteries, veins, and vasculature verified through experiment and microscope by Marcello Malpighi's observations of capillaries in animal lung tissue. Albrecht von Haller, as did Borelli, postulated that friction from the blood on vessel walls lead to body heat and even fever. A hydraulic model for motion by René Descartes implied the body had a system that maintained flow between the brain and muscles in equilibrium state through nerves and blood vessels.\n\nStarting in the 17th century, quantitative fields such as physics and mathematics began gaining legitimacy as a means of studying the natural world with the advent of theory, practices, and instruments. Static principles and simple machines were already in use to create various objects and buildings and thus were established tools that could be used to inspire models of biological systems. The development of medical instruments and techniques, such as the microscope and detailed dissections, changed how natural philosophers thought about how to explain the human body's properties. By enabling more detailed study of aspects of biology, let alone the human body, instrumentation and methods to directly study organic tissue allowed more opportunities for natural philosophers, Iatrophysicists in this case, to postulate and verify their theories. With inspiration from established explanations of natural phenomena and new informative means to study the human body available, iatrophysicists aimed to describe the human body and assert their explanation of various systems of the human body.\n\nOne example is the muscle and contraction. Various explanations on a macroscopic and microscopic scale were made to explain how muscles contracted and thus performed movements together. On a macroscopic scale through observation and anatomy, some iatrophysicists such as Borelli focused on explaining how muscles worked in conjunction together to form movements with dynamics or physical models. On a microscopic scale via observation and dissection, the contractility of muscle was to be explained by pneumatic expansion, a popular explanation supported by Descartes and Borelli, or inherent shape deformation, postulated by Nicolas Steno and Albrecht von Haller to an extent, based upon principles of fluids and statics. Other aspects of the human body such as circulation and digestion saw a number of explanations, and thus conflicting views based on the methodology used to derive and obtain an explanation, arise in the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nOne prominent iatrophysicist was Giovanni Borelli , who modeled the human body, various animals, and their motions using mechanical principles. A colleague of Marcello Malphigi, Borelli was a mathematician who made connections between what he observed in living things and inanimate but relatively simple systems. He dissected animals and examined how muscles were to increase mechanical advantage, observed how a variety of living things performed different movements and activities such as running, carrying loads, swimming, and flying naturally rather than by his intervention, and devised simple methods to calculate a person's center of mass. He also devised relatively simple experiments and devices to make his observations such as a plank and rod for center of mass and a spirometer for volume of air. At the end of his life, his work culminated in \"De Motu Animalium\" (1679), a publication showcasing his investigations in similarities and differences in muscles across living things and his understanding of the underlying mechanism of muscle contraction, expansion via influx of fluids or gases released from nerves. He also attempted to describe more complicated processes such as nerve transmission and digestion.\n\nAnother notable iatrophysicist was the French philosopher and mathematician René Descartes, who, as a consequence of his philosophy asserting that the human body and soul are two dual entities, treated the human body as a machine that could be quantified, disassembled, and studied. He attempted to model various phenomena such as the brain, movement, sleep, circulation, and senses with analogies to inanimate objects such as reservoirs, pipes, lenses and steam engines that often sought to maintain an equilibrium for certain states. Some of his claims often were independent of physical observation of the organ or body in question and emphasized what he deemed as \"simple\" or \"rational\" rather than reality. For example, he asserts that blood circulates throughout the body by expanding as vapor by the heart's heat rather than from contraction.\n\nWilliam Harvey postulated blood flow as a closed, continuous loop that run throughout body that contained a certain quantity of blood. To test his claim, Harvey dissected human corpses and animals and, based on his anatomical findings, devised a simple demonstration of how arteries and veins continuously carried blood throughout the body. Taking advantage of the fact that arteries and veins were at different depths below the skin, he tied a person's arm and had them squeeze a bar to shunt blood from arteries to veins, indicating that blood somehow traveled along arteries and into veins. His claim was elucidated by Malphigi's discovery of capillaries and how they were interconnected with arteries and veins.\n\nOne of the most influential iatrophysicists was Hermann Boerhaave, a Dutch physician and chemist at the Leiden University. Like other iatrophysicists, he viewed physiology as a mechanism. While he disagreed with the idea that the body and the mind were connected, he attributed everything related to the body to extension, impenetrability, or motion.\n\nFrancis Glisson was known for his work on circulation of the blood, the mechanisms of the nervous system, and hereditary diseases. He was largely influenced by Harvey’s work on the sentient nature of blood and his work demonstrates iatrophysical ideology particularly through his views of attraction and irritability, or the concept of how the body fibers react to irritation. In his work, \"Anatomia hepatis,\" he argues that branches cross, and carried blood is separated in the liver. This in turn is sucked up by biliary vessels through an attraction that Glisson attributes as similar, magnetic, or natural.\n\nAlbrecht von Haller was another prominent iatrophysicist, who like Glisson, focused on physiology as mechanisms of body fibers. He shared Glisson’s views on irritability, but unlike Glisson, attributed the reaction to external stimuli solely to body fibers, and not in the inherent power of matter as Glisson had suggested. In his work \"Physiologiae Corporis Humani\" (1757–1766), he described organs and muscles of the body as interwoven fibers. His viewpoints on muscles were that they had a contractile tendency which he termed \"vis mortua,\" or dead power. He attributed this muscle contraction to irritability, which he described as being an inherent power. He particularly made the distinction between irritability and sensibility, irritability being the power of muscular contraction and sensibility being nerve impulse. Therefore, a part was irritable if it contracted upon contact, and sensible if the contact impacted the mind.\n\nSantorio Santorio was a Venetian doctor who, in attempt to quantify human digestion, carefully measured his food/water intake and excretion weight over many years. To establish a mathematical relationship between food/water intake and excretion, Santorius designed a special chair that had a balance that weighed a subject's meal and consequent excrement. Based on these measurements, he then calculated the net change in weight for each day. In addition to knowing what he took in, he also analyzed the contents of his excretions and secretions, categorizing it by type and origin. He also made other clinical instruments to measure other medical quantities such as temperature and pulse.\n\nNicolas Steno was a Danish scientist who developed a purely mechanical and geometrical model of muscle. In this model, he treated a muscle as an interwoven yet simple network of long fibers, forming a uniform and robust geometric shape. Contraction was then explained as the reshaping of this network to either shorten or lengthen along one direction, thus the muscle changed shape at a fixed volume by only changing the angles between each fibre. This explanation of contraction, and his consequent theory that the heart contracted by many of its fibers shortening and lengthening, was considered radical. The most popular explanation, supported by well known Iatrophysicists such as Descartes and Borelli, asserted that the heart contracted from its fibers inflating themselves through a chemical reaction.\n\nSimilar to iatrophysics, iatrochemistry was a school of thought that related medicine and anatomy instead to chemistry, instead of mechanics. Iatrophysics and iatrochemistry were closely related. Many prominent iatrophysicists such as Borelli and Descartes utilized chemistry in order to explain physiological processes. Particularly, Franciscus Sylvius was an adamant believer in chemical processes as an explanation for the body. He emphasized fermentation and effervescence for the input of chemistry and circulation into physiology.\n\nAlthough iatrochemistry and iatrophysics were similar in ways of thought, and also went hand-in-hand in many aspects, they also conflicted at times. For example, the concept of fermentation arose from iatrochemical background. A book on fermentation by Henri Louis de Rouviere (1708) connected fermentation with health. However, it also dismissed the relationship of mechanics with health and the mechanistic model of the body. Another conflict arose in explanation of digestion. While iatrophysicists explained the event through mechanistic terms, iatrochemists argued for fermentation as the reason for the digestive processes in the body. Furthermore, while iatrophysicists rejected acid-base theory as an explanation for bodily processes, iatrochemists embraced the theory.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, Galenic anatomo-physiology prevailed as the leading medical thought. Furthermore, Aristotelian natural philosophy had dominated for centuries, including the humoral system as a primary method of medical thought. However, the philosophies of Aristotle, Hippocrates, and Galen began to wane in popularity, replaced by anatomical and philosophical schools of thought based on mechanics and chemical naturalism. Ideologies such as iatrophysics and iatrochemistry began to prevail. The decline of Galenic philosophy-based medicine coupled with the rise of new ideologies was spurred by the advent of new discoveries in anatomy and physiology, such as that of William Harvey’s work centered on circulation of the blood. His idea that pulse, respiration, and nutrition were all working components of a unified system revolutionized preexisting ideas about blood, nutrition, and heat. The discovery of the circulation of the blood was crucial in the development of iatrophysics in that it was the first that related “circulations” to physiological functions. This led to the advent of new discoveries such as the circulation of nutritive fluid, circulation of lymph, and circulation of nervous juice, all of which relate a machine-like mechanism to anatomy.\n\nTraditionally, physiological functions were believed to be regulated by purposeful tendencies. However, the advent of the new medicinal schools of thought transformed the way physiology was approached. Secretion and excretion were no longer due to attractive tendencies, the function of the lungs were now due to the mixing of different parts of the blood, digestion was seen as a process of grinding and mincing, and health and disease were associated with movement, obstruction, and stagnation of the various bodily fluids running through the body. The body increasingly became viewed as a function of a machine, especially with the development of Isaac Newton’s theory of gravitation and motion. Newtonian physics came to widely influence the way the body was viewed, and physiology was increasingly focused on a clockwork mechanism, and the later hydraulics was even applied to the movement of bodily fluids. Furthermore, with the publication of Newton’s \"Opticks\" in 1704, physiologists increasingly depended on the notions of ether and effluvia in their anatomical observations.\n"}
{"id": "55784744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55784744", "title": "Indian environmental law", "text": "Indian environmental law\n\nIndian environmental law concerns the law and policy of India concerning the protection of the environment, measures taken to reverse climate change and achieve a zero carbon economy.\n\n\nThe Environment Protection Act, 1986. is enforced by the Central Pollution Control Board and the numerous State Pollution Control Boards.\n\n\nLegislation to protect water quality include: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23276654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23276654", "title": "Infinite qualitative distinction", "text": "Infinite qualitative distinction\n\nThe infinite qualitative distinction (; ), sometimes translated as infinite qualitative difference, is a concept coined by the Danish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard. The distinction emphasizes the very different attributes of finite and temporal men and the infinite and eternal qualities of a supreme being. This concept fits into the apophatic theology tradition and therefore is fundamentally at odds with theological theories which posit a supreme being able to be fully understood by man. The theologian Karl Barth made the concept of infinite qualitative distinction a cornerstone of his theology.\n\nFor Kierkegaard, direct communication with God is impossible, as the idea of God and man are infinitely different. He argues that indirect communication with God is the only way of communication. For example, in Christian belief, the Incarnation posits that Jesus Christ is God incarnate. The infinite qualitative distinction is opposed to rational theology in the sense that, whereas the latter argues one can prove empirically Jesus is God incarnate, the former argues that empirical evidence is ultimately insufficient in making that conclusion. The paradoxical nature of the Incarnation, that God is embodied in a man, is offensive to reason, and can only be comprehended indirectly, through faith.\n\nBarth's book \"The Epistle to the Romans\" also emphasizes such a gulf. In the preface to the Second Edition of his commentary, Barth writes, \"if I have a system, it is limited to a recognition of what Kierkegaard called the 'infinite qualitative distinction' between time and eternity, and to my regarding this as possessing negative as well as positive significance: 'God is in heaven, and thou art on earth'. The relation between such a God and such a man, and the relation between such a man and such a God, is for me the theme of the Bible and the essence of philosophy.\"\n\nKierkegaard doesn't believe God is so objective toward human beings but rather that he is the absolute subjective being. He put it this way in 1846: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1983847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1983847", "title": "Institutional review board", "text": "Institutional review board\n\nAn institutional review board (IRB), also known as an independent ethics committee (IEC), ethical review board (ERB), or research ethics board (REB), is a type of committee that applies research ethics by reviewing the methods proposed for research to ensure that they are ethical. Such boards are formally designated to approve (or reject), monitor, and review biomedical and behavioral research involving humans. They often conduct some form of risk-benefit analysis in an attempt to determine whether or not research should be conducted. The purpose of the IRB is to assure that appropriate steps are taken to protect the rights and welfare of humans participating as subjects in a research study. Along with developed countries, many developing countries have established national, regional or local Institutional Review Boards in order to safeguard ethical conduct of research concerning both national and international norms, regulations or codes.\n\nA key goal of IRBs is to protect human subjects from physical or psychological harm, which they attempt to do by reviewing research protocols and related materials. The protocol review assesses the ethics of the research and its methods, promotes fully informed and voluntary participation by prospective subjects capable of making such choices (or, if that is not possible, informed permission given by a suitable proxy), and seeks to maximize the safety of subjects.\n\nIn the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Department of Health and Human Services (specifically Office for Human Research Protections) regulations (see Human subject research legislation in the United States) have empowered IRBs to approve, require modifications in planned research prior to approval, or disapprove research. IRBs are responsible for critical oversight functions for research conducted on human subjects that are \"scientific\", \"ethical\", and \"regulatory\". The equivalent body responsible for overseeing U.S. federally funded research using animals is the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC).\n\nIRBs are most commonly used for studies in the fields of health and the social sciences, including anthropology, sociology, and psychology. Such studies may be clinical trials of new drugs or devices, studies of personal or social behavior, opinions or attitudes, or studies of how health care is delivered and might be improved.\n\nFormal review procedures for institutional human subject studies were originally developed in direct response to research abuses in the 20th century. Among the most notorious of these abuses were the experiments of Nazi physicians, which became a focus of the post-World War II Doctors' Trial, the Tuskegee Syphilis Study, a long-term project conducted between 1932 and 1972 by the U.S. Public Health Service, and numerous human radiation experiments conducted during the Cold War. Other controversial U.S. projects undertaken during this era include the Milgram obedience experiment, the Stanford prison experiment, and Project MKULTRA, a series of classified mind control studies organized by the CIA.\n\nThe result of these abuses was the National Research Act of 1974 and the development of the Belmont Report, which outlined the primary ethical principles in human subjects review; these include \"respect for persons\", \"beneficence\", and \"justice\". An IRB may only approve research for which the risks to subjects are balanced by potential benefits to society, and for which the selection of subjects presents a fair or just distribution of risks and benefits to eligible participants. A \"bona fide\" process for obtaining informed consent from participants is also generally needed. However, this requirement may be waived in certain circumstances – for example, when the risk of harm to participants is clearly minimal.\n\nIn the United States, IRBs are governed by Title 45 Code of Federal Regulations Part 46. These regulations define the rules and responsibilities for institutional review, which is required for all research that receives support, directly or indirectly, from the United States federal government. IRBs are themselves regulated by the Office for Human Research Protections (OHRP) within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Additional requirements apply to IRBs that oversee clinical trials of drugs involved in new drug applications, or to studies that are supported by the United States Department of Defense.\n\nIn addition to registering its IRB with the OHRP, an institution is also required to obtain and maintain a \"Federalwide Assurance\" or FWA, before undertaking federally funded human research. This is an agreement in which the institution commits to abiding by the regulations governing human research. A secondary supplement to the FWA is required when institutions are undertaking research supported by the U.S. Department of Defense. This \"DoD Addendum\" includes further compliance requirements for studies using military personnel, or when the human research involves populations in conflict zones, foreign prisoners, etc.\n\nU.S. regulations identify several research categories that are considered exempt from IRB oversight. These categories include: \n\nGenerally, human research ethics guidelines require that decisions about exemption are made by an IRB representative, not by the investigators themselves.\n\nNumerous other countries have equivalent regulations or guidelines governing human subject studies and the ethics committees that oversee them. However, the organizational responsibilities and the scope of the oversight purview can differ substantially from one nation to another, especially in the domain of non-medical research. The United States Department of Health and Human Services maintains a comprehensive compilation of regulations and guidelines in other countries, as well as related standards from a number of international and regional organizations.\n\nAlthough \"IRB\" is a generic term used in the United States by the FDA and HHS, each institution that establishes such a board may use whatever name it chooses. Many simply capitalize the term \"Institutional Review Board\" as the proper name of their instance. Regardless of the name chosen, the IRB is subject to the FDA's IRB regulations when studies of FDA-regulated products are reviewed and approved. At one time such a committee was named the \"Committee for the Protection of Human Subjects\". Originally, IRBs were simply committees at academic institutions and medical facilities to monitor research studies involving human participants, primarily to minimize or avoid ethical problems. Today, some of these reviews are conducted by for-profit organizations known as 'independent' or 'commercial' IRBs. The responsibilities of these IRBs are identical to those based at academic or medical institutions, and they are governed by the same U.S. federal regulations.\n\nThe regulations set out the board's membership and composition requirements, with provisions for diversity in experience, expertise, and institutional affiliation. For example, the minimum number of members is five, at least one scientist, and at least one non-scientist. The guidance strongly suggests that the IRB contain both men and women, but there is no regulatory requirement for gender balance in the IRB's membership. The full requirements are set out in 21 CFR 56.107.\n\nUnless a research proposal is determined to be exempt (see below), the IRB undertakes its work either in a convened meeting (a \"full\" review) or by using an expedited review procedure. When a full review is required, a majority of the IRB members must be present at the meeting, at least one of whom has primary concern for the nonscientific aspects of the research. The research can be approved if a majority of those present are in favor.\n\nAn expedited review may be carried out if the research involves no more than minimal risk to subjects, or where minor changes are being made to previously approved research. The regulations provide a list of research categories that may be reviewed in this manner. An expedited review is carried out by the IRB chair, or by their designee(s) from the board membership. Research activity cannot be disapproved by expedited review.\n\nThe International Conference on Harmonisation sets out guidelines for registration of pharmaceuticals in multiple countries. It defines Good Clinical Practice (GCP), which is an agreed quality standard that governments can transpose into regulations for clinical trials involving human subjects.\n\nHere is a summary of several key regulatory guidelines for oversight of clinical trials:\n\n\nThe reviewers may also request that more information be given to subjects when, in their judgment, the additional information would add meaningfully to the protection of the rights, safety and/or well-being of the subjects. When a non-therapeutic trial is to be carried out with the consent of the subject's legally acceptable representative, reviewers should determine that the proposed protocol and/or other document(s) adequately address relevant ethical concerns and meets applicable regulatory requirements for such trials. Where the protocol indicates prior consent of the trial subject or the subject's legally acceptable representative is not possible, the review should determine that the proposed protocol and/or other document(s) adequately addresses relevant ethical concerns and meets applicable regulatory requirements for such trials (i.e., in emergency situations).\n\nWhile the Belmont principles and U.S. federal regulations were formulated with biomedical and social-behavioral research in mind, the enforcement of the regulations, the examples used in typical presentations regarding the history of the regulatory requirements, and the extensiveness of written guidance have been predominantly focused on biomedical research.\n\nNumerous complaints by investigators about the fit between the federal regulations and its IRB review requirements as they relate to social science research have been received. Broad complaints range from the legitimacy of IRB review, the applicability of the concepts of risk as it pertains to social science (e.g., possibly unneeded, over-burdensome requirements), and the requirements for the documentation of participants' informed consent (i.e., consent forms). Researchers have tried to determine under what instances participants are more likely to read informed consent forms, and ways to improve their efficacy in the social sciences. Social scientists have criticized biomedical IRBs for failing to adequately understand their research methods (such as ethnography). In 2003, the Office for Human Research Protections (OHRP), in conjunction with the Oral History Association and American Historical Association, issued a formal statement that taking oral histories, unstructured interviews (as if for a piece of journalism), collecting anecdotes, and similar free speech activities often do not constitute \"human subject research\" as defined in the regulations and were never intended to be covered by clinical research rules.\n\nOther federal agencies supporting social science have attempted to provide guidance in this area, especially the National Science Foundation. In general, the NSF guidelines assure IRBs that the regulations have some flexibility and rely on the common sense of the IRB to focus on limiting harm, maximizing informed consent, and limiting bureaucratic limitations of valid research.\n\nAspects of big data research pose formidable challenges for research ethics and thus show potential for wider applicability of formal review processes. One theme is data breaches, but another with high difficulty is potentially dangerous predictive analytics with unintended consequences, via false-positives or new ways to invade privacy. A 2016 article on the hope to expand ethics reviews of such research included an example of a data breach in which a big data researcher leaked 70,000 OkCupid profiles with usernames and sexual orientation data. It also gave an example of potential privacy invasion and government repression in which machine learning was used to build automated gaydar, labeling strangers as \"probably gay\" based on their facial photographs. Analogies with phrenology and Nazis identifying people as \"probably part-Jewish\" based on facial features have been made to show what can go wrong with research whose authors may have failed to adequately think through the risks of harm. Such challenges broach familiar themes, such as mistaken identity, precrime, and persecution, in new applications.\n\nWhile the IRB approval and oversight process is designed to protect the rights and welfare of the research subjects, it has been the subject of criticism, by bioethicists and others, for conflicts of interest resulting in lax oversight. In 2005, the for-profit Western Institutional Review Board claimed to conduct the majority of reviews for new drug submissions to the FDA. In a 2006 study of 575 IRB members at university medical centers, over one-third reported industry financial ties and over one-third admitted they \"rarely or never\" disclosed conflicts of interest to other board members.\n\nIn 2009 the Government Accountability Office (GAO) set up a series of undercover tests to determine whether the IRB system was vulnerable to unethical manipulation. In one test, a fake product \"Adhesiabloc\" was submitted to a number of IRBs for approval for human tests. The product, company, and CVs of the supposed researchers were all fictitious and documents were forged by the GAO. The product was deliberately formulated to match some \"significant risk\" criteria of the FDA and was described by GAO as a \"gel that would be poured into a patient’s stomach after surgery to collect the bits and pieces left over from an operation.\" Despite this, one IRB approved the device for human testing. Other IRBs to whom the device was submitted rejected the application, one of them saying it was \"the riskiest thing I’ve ever seen on this board\". However, none of the IRBs approached detected that the company and product were fake. The GAO also set up a fake IRB and obtained requests for approval from companies. They succeeded in getting assurance approval from the HHS for their fake IRB. HHS has only three staff to deal with 300 IRB registrations and 300 assurance applications per month. HHS stated that it would not be worthwhile to carry out additional evaluation even if they had the staff to do it.\n\n\nEnfield, K. B. & Truwit, J. D. (2008). The Purpose, Composition, and Function of an Institutional Review Board: Balancing Priorities. Respiratory Care, 53, 1330-1336.\n\nFairchild, A. L. & Bayer, R. (1999). Uses and Abuses of Tuskegee. American Association for the Advancement of Science, 284, 919-921.\n\nPerrault, E. K. & Nazione, S. A. (2016). Informed Consent—Uninformed Participants: Shortcomings of Online Social Science Consent Forms and Recommendations for Improvement. Journal of Empirical Research on Human Research Ethics. 11(3), 274-280. doi=10.1177/1556264616654610\n\nPope, T. M. (2009). Multi-Institutional Healthcare Ethics Committees: The Procedurally Fair Internal Dispute Resolution Mechanism, 31 Campbell Law Review 257-331.\n\n"}
{"id": "21484524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21484524", "title": "Jack (hero)", "text": "Jack (hero)\n\nJack is an archetypal Cornish and English hero and stock character appearing in legends, fairy tales, and nursery rhymes, generally portrayed as a young adult. Unlike moralizing fairy heroes, Jack is often portrayed as lazy or foolish, but through the use of cleverness and tricks he usually emerges triumphant. In this way, he may resemble a trickster.\n\nSome of the most famous are \"Jack and the Beanstalk\", \"Jack Frost\", \"Jack the Giant Killer\", \"Little Jack Horner\" and \"This Is the House That Jack Built\". While these heroes are not necessarily congruous, their concepts are related and in some instances interchangeable. The notion of \"Jack\" is closely related and sometimes identical to the English hero John. He also corresponds with the German Hans (or Hänsel) and the Russian Iván.\n\n\"Jack tales\" are also popular in Appalachian folklore. Richard Chase, an American Folklorist, collected in his book \"The Jack Tales\" many popular Appalachian Jack tales as told by descendants of Council Harmon. Council Harmon's grandfather, Cutliff Harmon, is thought to very possibly be the one who originally brought the Jack tales to America. As pointed out by folklorist Herbert Halpert, the Appalachian Jack tales are an oral tradition as opposed to written, and like many Appalachian folksongs, trace back to sources in England. For instance, where the English original would feature a king or other noble, the Appalachian Jack tale version would have a sheriff. Some stories feature Jack's brothers, Will and Tom. Some Jack tales feature themes that trace to Germanic folk tales.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52988039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52988039", "title": "Librairie Avant-Garde (Mount Wutai Branch)", "text": "Librairie Avant-Garde (Mount Wutai Branch)\n\nLibrairie Avant-Garde (Mount Wutai Branch) is a bookstore opened by Qian Xiaohua in 2004, now regarded as the most representative bookstore in Nanjing, China. It has become a cultural icon of the city, and because of the adjacency to Nanjing University and the popularity among students, it is dubbed as \"the second library of Nanjing University\".\n\nThe bookshop is hidden in a former government parking lot underneath Wutaishan Stadium, which has been used as a bomb shelter. Covering 3780 sq meter, it provides a large volume of social science and humanities books that have been recognized by the literati and history, ranging from literature, history, philosophy, movie, music, photography, dance, drama, architecture, art, cartoon and advertisement to social science, business and journalism, while excluding reference work and other practical books.\n\nAfter all the hardship of running the bookstore, bankruptcy in 2003 and the unpredictable, Qian Xiaohua restored energy and opened a flagship bookstore in an underground parking lot, on Guangzhou Road. Because at the time most friends of Qian were avant-garde writers, and he himself was an avid French literature lover, he named the bookstore Librairie Avant-Garde, in which Librairie is a French word that means bookshop. He hoped the bookstore could serve as a spiritual guide for the people making their way in darkness. \"A good bookshop should provide space, vision and nurture the city with its humanitarian spirit,\" owner Qian Xiaohua tells CNN. \"It's a place for people to have dreams in the city.\"\n1996: predecessor of Librairie Avant-Garde opened on Taiping South Road, across the road from St. Paul's Church(Nanjing), with a total area of mere 17 sq meter.\n\n1999: moved to No.79, Guangzhou Road, next to the children's hospital, covering 97 sq meter.\n\n2001: moved to No.12, Guangzhou Road, covering 600 sq meter.\n\n2003: the first metro bookstore in Nanjing opened, at Xinjiekou Station. Confucius Temple Branch opened.\n\n2004: Mount Wutai Branch opened.\n\n2006: New City Square Branch opened.\n\n2011: Presidential Palace Branch opened.\n\n2012: Wuxi Branch opened.\n\n2013: May-ling Branch and Pioneer New Life Press opened.\n\n2014: Lingyuan Road Branch(先锋永丰诗舍), Bishan Book Bureau and Runze Press opened.\n\n2015: Jiangsu Road Branch, Yihe Academy and Yunxi Library opened.\n\n2016: Laoqian Studio and Laomen East Branch opened.\n\nPioneer Literature&History Bookstore(Presidential Palace, No.292, Yangtze River Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China)\n\nPioneer Republic of China Academy( Xijia Building, Presidential Palace, No.292, Yangtze River Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China)\n\nPioneer Literature&History Bookstore(May-ling Palace, Sun Yat-sen Mausoleum, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China)\n\nPioneer New Life Press(Nanjing Museum, No.321, Zhongshan East Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China)\n\nLibrairie Avant-Garde(Lingyuan Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China)\n\nPioneer Runze Press(No.86, Yushan West Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China)\n\nPioneer Yihe Academy(No.39, Jiangsu Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China)\n\nLibrairie Avant-Garde(Wuxi Branch)(No.186, Huishan Straight Street, Wuxi, Jiangsu, China)\n\nBishan Book Bureau(Qitai Hall, Anhui, China)\n\nPioneer Yunxi Library(No.7, Mount Daijia, Zhejiang, China)\n\nLaoqian Studio(No.189, Guangzhou Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China)\n\nLibrairie Avant-Garde(Laomen East Branch)(Bianying No.2, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China)\n\nLibrairie Avant-Garde is one of the world's most beautiful independent bookstores, listed by BBC in 2014. Also rated as the most beautiful bookstore in China by CNN in 2015, and in August, was listed in the coolest bookstores in the world. The Librairie Avant-Garde is among the list \"10 of the best industrial-chic spaces worldwide\" listed by The Guardian in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "33485622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33485622", "title": "List of World Heritage sites in Southern Europe", "text": "List of World Heritage sites in Southern Europe\n\nThe UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) has designated 168 World Heritage sites in all of the 15 sovereign countries (also called \"state parties\") of Southern Europe: Albania, Andorra, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Greece, Italy, Macedonia, Malta, Montenegro, Portugal, San Marino, Serbia, Slovenia, Spain, and Vatican City as well as one site in the British overseas territory of Gibraltar. While Cyprus and Turkey have territory in Southern Europe, they are not included here but in Western Asia.\n\nThe top two countries by number of World Heritage sites are located in this region: Italy with 53 sites and Spain with 46 sites (43 sites not including those on the Canary Islands). Seven sites are shared between several countries: Prehistoric Rock Art Sites in the Côa Valley and Siega Verde (Portugal and Spain), Rhaetian Railway in the Albula / Bernina Landscapes (Italy and Switzerland), Monte San Giorgio (Italy and Switzerland), Historic Centre of Rome, the Properties of the Holy See in that City Enjoying Extraterritorial Rights and San Paolo Fuori le Mura (Holy See and Italy), Pyrénées – Mont Perdu (France and Spain), Prehistoric Pile dwellings around the Alps (Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Slovenia and Switzerland) and Heritage of Mercury – Almadén and Idrija (Slovenia and Spain). The first sites from the region were inscribed in 1979 a year after the list's conception, and included six sites in the former Yugoslavia and one site in Italy. Each year, UNESCO's World Heritage Committee may inscribe new sites on the list, or delist sites that no longer meet the criteria. Selection is based on ten criteria: six for cultural heritage (i–vi) and four for natural heritage (vii–x). Some sites, designated \"mixed sites,\" represent both cultural and natural heritage. In Southern Europe, there are 150 cultural, 12 natural, and 7 mixed sites.\n\nThe World Heritage Committee may also specify that a site is endangered, citing \"conditions which threaten the very characteristics for which a property was inscribed on the World Heritage List.\" One of the sites (Medieval Monuments in Kosovo) in Southern Europe is listed as endangered and four sites (Old City of Dubrovnik, Natural and Culturo-Historical Region of Kotor, Plitvice Lakes National Park and Butrint) were previously listed. Possible danger listing has been considered by UNESCO in a number of other cases.\n\nThe table is sortable by column by clicking on the at the top of the appropriate column; alphanumerically for the Site, Area, and Year columns; by state party for the Location column; and by criteria type for the Criteria column. Transborder sites sort at the bottom.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "172857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172857", "title": "Louisville, Belize", "text": "Louisville, Belize\n\nLouisville is a village in the Corozal District of the nation of Belize, located at . According to the 2000 census, it had a population of 655 people mainly from Maya Mestizo ancestry.\n\nSome substantial artificial mounds at Louisville are the remains of an ancient city of the Maya civilization. The site seems to have been occupied from about 400 BC to about 950 AD. Excavations, made here by Dr. Thomas Gann in the mid-1930s, uncovered polychrome stucco portrait heads.\n\nMuch of the ancient remains were demolished to reuse stone and make fill for roads. Further investigations and excavations of Louisville were made in 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "18935201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935201", "title": "Mary Sue", "text": "Mary Sue\n\nA Mary Sue is an idealized and seemingly perfect fictional character. Often, this character is recognized as an author insert or wish fulfillment. They can usually perform better at tasks than should be possible given the amount of training or experience, and usually are able through some means to upstage the main protagonist of an established fictional setting, such as by saving the hero. A male can also be referred to as a Marty Stu, Larry Stu, or Gary Stu, but the name Mary Sue is more commonly used.\n\nThe term \"Mary Sue\" comes from the name of a character created by Paula Smith in 1973 for her parody story \"A Trekkie's Tale\" published in her fanzine \"Menagerie\" #2. The story starred Lieutenant Mary Sue (\"the youngest Lieutenant in the fleet — only fifteen and a half years old\"), and satirized unrealistic characters in \"Star Trek\" fan fiction. By 1976, \"Menagerie\"'s editors stated that they disliked such characters, saying:\n\n\"Mary Sue\" today has changed from its original meaning and now carries a generalized, although not universal, connotation of wish-fulfillment and is commonly associated with self-insertion, though the characterization of upstaging the established protagonist(s) of existing properties remains fundamental. True self-insertion is a literal and generally undisguised representation of the author; most characters described as \"Mary Sues\" are not, though they are often called \"proxies\" for the author. The negative connotation comes from this \"wish-fulfillment\" implication: the \"Mary Sue\" is judged as a poorly developed character, too perfect and lacking in realism to be interesting.\n\nIn chapter four of her book \"Enterprising Women\", Camille Bacon-Smith states that fear of creating a \"Mary Sue\" may be restricting and even silencing to some writers.\n\nSmith quotes an issue of the \"Star Trek\" fanzine \"Archives\" as identifying \"Mary Sue\" paranoia as one of the sources for the lack of \"believable, competent, and identifiable-with [sic] female characters.\" In this article, author Joanna Cantor interviews her sister Edith, also an amateur editor, who says she receives stories with cover letters apologizing for the tale as \"a Mary Sue\", even when the author admits she does not know what a \"Mary Sue\" is. According to Edith Cantor, while Paula Smith's original \"Trekkie's Tale\" was only ten paragraphs long, \"in terms of their impact on those whom they affect, those words [Mary Sue] have got to rank right up there with the Selective Service Act\". At Clippercon 1987 (a \"Star Trek\" fan convention held yearly in Baltimore, Maryland), Smith interviewed a panel of female authors who say they do not include female characters in their stories at all. She quoted one as saying \"Every time I've tried to put a woman in any story I've ever written, everyone immediately says, this is a Mary Sue.\" Smith also pointed out that \"Participants in a panel discussion in January 1990 noted with growing dismay that any female character created within the community is damned with the term Mary Sue.\"\n\nHowever, Bacon-Smith notes that fans have argued that in \"Star Trek\" as originally created, James T. Kirk is himself a \"Marty Stu,\" and that the label seems to be used more indiscriminately on female characters who do not behave in accordance with the dominant culture's images and expectations for females as opposed to males. Author Ann C. Crispin is quoted as saying: \"The term 'Mary Sue' constitutes a put-down, implying that the character so summarily dismissed is \"not\" a true character, no matter how well drawn, what sex, species, or degree of individuality.\"\n\nChristine Scodari, a researcher in media studies from gender perspective, noticed a supposed tendency within slash fandom to label major female characters (e.g. Nyota Uhura in the \"Star Trek\" 2009 film reboot) as \"Mary Sues\" because the slash fans \"begrudged\" how the development of the female character takes away screen time from slashable male characters.\n\nMarty, Gary, Gary Stu, or Larry Stu are alternative labels names given to this trope, when the same wish-fulfillment aspect is applied to male characters. The \"\" character Wesley Crusher was described, in hostile terms, as a \"Gary Stu\" by the feminist popular culture magazine \"Bitch\". There is speculation amongst fans and academics, mainly pejorative, that Wesley was a self-insertion character for Gene Roddenberry, Roddenberry's middle name being Wesley.\n\nFurther variant names have been suggested based on the specific personality of a Mary Sue, such as \"Einstein Sue\" (an implausibily intelligent character), \"Mary Tzu\" (one with unrealistically sharp tactical acumen), \"Jerk Sue\" (a short-tempered character who lashes out, yet is still loved by those around them), or \"Sympathetic Sue\" (a depressed character who is meant to incur the reader's sympathy).\n\nIn 2004, David Orr, in a review of online fan fiction websites FanFiction.net and Godawful Fan Fiction for \"The New York Times Book Review\", referred to \"Mary Sue\" as \"a ludicrously empowered author proxy\".\n\nThe \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" episode \"Superstar\" has been analyzed as being a deliberate satire of Mary Sue/Marty Stu type of stories.\n\nA popular subject of debate pertains to whether the \"Star Wars\" sequel trilogy features a Mary Sue in its protagonist, Rey. Screenwriter Max Landis opines that the character fits this description, claiming that Rey is excessively gifted at a variety of skills. Conversely, Caroline Framke of \"Vox\" contended that Rey did not fit the Mary Sue profile, stating that \"Any additional skills Rey has—mechanical work, hand-to-hand combat, climbing, etc—are explained when we first meet her... If she hadn't picked up those skills, she'd probably be dead\". Other writers, such as Tasha Robinson of \"The Verge\", have defended the idea of Rey being a Mary Sue, stating that \"for women who've felt underrepresented through decades where most of the ladies onscreen were victims, tokens, rewards, or shrews, it's natural to feel a sugar rush of fulfillment over characters like Katniss Everdeen and Imperator Furiosa\". Erik Kain in \"Forbes\" defines Mary Sue and argues that Rey's abilities do not make her one, given the details of her allegedly established backstory.\n\n"}
{"id": "7455325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7455325", "title": "Midori Suzuki (educator)", "text": "Midori Suzuki (educator)\n\nSuzuki was known for her work on media literacy, especially several seminal textbooks and the over one hundred workshops, symposia and media watch projects that she facilitated. She also introduced overseas research to Japan, for example through translations of work by Jerry Mander, Catharine MacKinnon, David Buckingham) and the Ontario Teacher's Association. \n\nIn addition, Suzuki maintained an exceptionally high level of international networking. She was an active member of the World Association of Christian Communication (WACC), a co-founder and core member of the Asian Network of Women in Communication (ANWIC), a long-term member of the International Association of Media and Communications Research (IAMCR), and on the International Exchange Committee of the Japan Society for Studies in Journalism and Mass Communication （日本マス・コミュニケーション学会). She also participated in UNESCO-sponsored research and projects, and was involved in the Global Media Monitoring Project (1994, 2000 and 2005), for which she served as a steering committee member and a Japanese liaison.\n\nAlthough Suzuki had received her master's degree in mass communications from Stanford University in 1966, she soon became critical of the mass communications research approach, especially its inherent view of people as 'passive receivers' or consumers of information. She instead began to develop a citizen-centered approach. Through her work with the Forum for Citizen's Television and Media (FCT), which she co-founded in 1977, she focused on informed criticism of commercial television programming, especially for children, as well as of gender stereotypes and other misconceptions and biases found in the mainstream Japanese media. Suzuki noted that \"critical is creative\" and saw media literacy as part of a bigger vision for media democratization. An early advocate for communication rights in Japan, she championed an active role for citizens in media society, including in policy making.\n\n"}
{"id": "1946204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1946204", "title": "Music industry", "text": "Music industry\n\nThe music industry consists of the companies and individuals that earn money by creating new songs and pieces and selling live concerts and shows, audio and video recordings, compositions and sheet music, and the organizations and associations that aid and represent music creators. Among the many individuals and organizations that operate in the industry are: the songwriters and composers who create new songs and musical pieces; the singers, musicians, conductors and bandleaders who perform the music; the companies and professionals who create and sell recorded music and/or sheet music (e.g., music publishers, music producers, recording studios, engineers, record labels, retail and online music stores, performance rights organizations); and those that help organize and present live music performances (sound engineers, booking agents, promoters, music venues, road crew).\n\nThe industry also includes a range of professionals who assist singers and musicians with their music careers (talent managers, artists and repertoire managers, business managers, entertainment lawyers); those who broadcast audio or video music content (satellite, Internet radio stations, broadcast radio and TV stations); music journalists and music critics; DJs; music educators and teachers; musical instrument manufacturers; as well as many others. In addition to the businesses and artists who work in the music industry to make a profit or income, there is a range of organizations that also play an important role in the music industry, including musician's unions (e.g., American Federation of Musicians), not-for-profit performance-rights organizations (e.g., American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers) and other associations (e.g., International Alliance for Women in Music, a non-profit organization that advocates for women composers and musicians).\n\nThe modern Western music industry emerged between the 1930s and 1950s, when records replaced sheet music as the most important product in the music business. In the commercial world, \"the recording industry\"—a reference to recording performances of songs and pieces and selling the recordings–began to be used as a loose synonym for \"the music industry\". In the 2000s, a majority of the music market is controlled by three major corporate labels: the French-owned Universal Music Group, the Japanese-owned Sony Music Entertainment, and the US-owned Warner Music Group. Labels outside of these three major labels are referred to as independent labels (or \"indies\"). The largest portion of the live music market for concerts and tours is controlled by Live Nation, the largest promoter and music venue owner. Live Nation is a former subsidiary of iHeartMedia Inc, which is the largest owner of radio stations in the United States.\n\nIn the first decades of the 2000s, the music industry underwent drastic changes with the advent of widespread digital distribution of music via the Internet (which includes both illegal file sharing of songs and legal music purchases in online music stores). A conspicuous indicator of these changes is total music sales: since 2000, sales of recorded music have dropped off substantially while live music has increased in importance. In 2011, the largest recorded music retailer in the world was now a digital, Internet-based platform operated by a computer company: Apple Inc.'s online iTunes Store. Since 2011, the Music Industry has seen consistent sales growth with streaming now generating more revenue per annum than digital downloads. Spotify and Apple lead the way with online digital streaming. \n\nPrinted music in Europe:\n\nMusic publishing using machine-printed sheet music developed during the Renaissance music era in the mid-15th century. The development of music publication followed the evolution of printing technologies that were first developed for printing regular books. After the mid-15th century, mechanical techniques for printing sheet music were first developed. The earliest example, a set of liturgical chants, dates from about 1465, shortly after the Gutenberg Bible was printed. Prior to this time, music had to be copied out by hand. To copy music notation by hand was a very costly, labor-intensive and time-consuming process, so it was usually undertaken only by monks and priests seeking to preserve sacred music for the church. The few collections of secular (non-religious) music that are extant were commissioned and owned by wealthy aristocrats. Examples include the Squarcialupi Codex of Italian Trecento music and the Chantilly Codex of French Ars subtilior music.\n\nThe use of printing enabled sheet music to reproduced much more quickly and at a much lower cost than hand-copying music notation. This helped musical styles to spread to other cities and countries more quickly, and it also enabled music to be spread to more distant areas. Prior to the invention of music printing, a composer's music might only be known in the city she lived in and its surrounding towns, because only wealthy aristocrats would be able to afford to have hand copies made of her music. With music printing, though, a composer's music could be printed and sold at a relatively low cost to purchasers from a wide geographic area. As sheet music of major composer's pieces and songs began to be printed and distributed in a wider area, this enabled composers and listeners to hear new styles and forms of music. A German composer could buy songs written by an Italian or English composer, and an Italian composer could buy pieces written by Dutch composers and learn how they wrote music. This led to more blending of musical styles from different countries and regions.\n\nThe pioneer of modern music printing was Ottaviano Petrucci (born in Fossombrone in 1466 – died in 1539 in Venice ), a printer and publisher who was able to secure a twenty-year monopoly on printed music in Venice during the 16th century. Venice was one of the major business and music centers during this period. His \"Harmonice Musices Odhecaton\", a collection of chansons printed in 1501, is commonly misidentified as the first book of sheet music printed from movable type. Actually that distinction belongs to the Roman printer Ulrich Han's \"Missale Romanum\" of 1476. Nevertheless, Petrucci's later work was extraordinary for the complexity of his white mensural notation and the smallness of his font. He printed the first book of polyphony (music with two or more independent melodic lines) using movable type. He also published numerous works by the most highly regarded composers of the Renaissance, including Josquin des Prez and Antoine Brumel. He flourished by focusing on Flemish works, rather than Italian, as they were very popular throughout Europe during the Renaissance music era. His printing shop used the triple-impression method, in which a sheet of paper was pressed three times. The first impression was the staff lines, the second the words, and the third the notes. This method produced very clean and readable results, although it was time-consuming and expensive.\n\nUntil the 18th century, the processes of formal composition and of the printing of music took place for the most part with the support of patronage from aristocracies and churches. In the mid-to-late 18th century, performers and composers such as Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart began to seek more commercial opportunities to market their music and performances to the general public. After Mozart's death, his wife (Constanze Weber) continued the process of commercialization of his music through an unprecedented series of memorial concerts, selling his manuscripts, and collaborating with her second husband, Georg Nissen, on a biography of Mozart.\nIn the 19th century, sheet-music publishers dominated the music industry. Prior to the invention of sound recording technologies, the main way for music lovers to hear new symphonies and opera arias (songs) was to buy the sheet music (often arranged for piano or for a small chamber music group) and perform the music in a living room, using friends who were amateur musicians and singers. In the United States, the music industry arose in tandem with the rise of \"black face\" minstrelsy. Blackface is a form of theatrical makeup used predominantly by non-black performers to represent a black person. The practice gained popularity during the 19th century and contributed to the spread of negative racial stereotypes of African-American people.\n\nIn the late part of the century the group of music publishers and songwriters which dominated popular music in the United States became known as Tin Pan Alley. The name originally referred to a specific place: West 28th Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenue in Manhattan, and a plaque (see below) on the sidewalk on 28th Street between Broadway and Sixth commemorates it. The start of Tin Pan Alley is usually dated to about 1885, when a number of music publishers set up shop in the same district of Manhattan. The end of Tin Pan Alley is less clear-cut. Some date it to the start of the Great Depression in the 1930s when the phonograph and radio supplanted sheet music as the driving force of American popular music, while others consider Tin Pan Alley to have continued into the 1950s when earlier styles of American popular music were upstaged by the rise of rock & roll.\n\nAt the dawn of the early 20th century, the development of sound recording began to function as a disruptive technology to the commercial interests which published sheet music. During the sheet music era, if a regular person wanted to hear popular new songs, he or she would buy the sheet music and play it at home on a piano, or learn the song at home while playing the accompaniment part on piano or guitar. Commercially released phonograph records of musical performances, which became available starting in the late 1880s, and later the onset of widespread radio broadcasting, starting in the 1920s, forever changed the way music was heard and listened to. Opera houses, concert halls, and clubs continued to produce music and musicians and singers continued to perform live, but the power of radio allowed bands, ensembles and singers who had previously performed only in one region to become popular on a nationwide and sometimes even a worldwide scale. Moreover, whereas attendance at the top symphony and opera concerts was formerly restricted to high-income people in a pre-radio world, with broadcast radio, a much larger wider range of people, including lower and middle-income people could hear the best orchestras, big bands, popular singers and opera shows.\n\nThe \"record industry\" eventually replaced the sheet music publishers as the music industry's largest force. A multitude of record labels came and went. Some noteworthy labels of the earlier decades include the Columbia Records, Crystalate, Decca Records, Edison Bell, The Gramophone Company, Invicta, Kalliope, Pathé, Victor Talking Machine Company and many others. Many record companies died out as quickly as they had formed, and by the end of the 1980s, the \"Big six\" — EMI, CBS, BMG, PolyGram, WEA and MCA — dominated the industry. Sony bought CBS Records in 1987 and changed its name to Sony Music in 1991. In mid-1998, PolyGram Music Group merged with MCA Music Entertainment creating what we now know as Universal Music Group. Since then, Sony and BMG merged in 2004, and Universal took over the majority of EMI's recorded music interests in 2012. EMI Music Publishing, also once part of the now defunct British conglomerate, is now co-owned by Sony as a subsidiary of Sony/ATV Music Publishing.\n\nGenre-wise, music entrepreneurs expanded their industry models into areas like folk music, in which composition and performance had continued for centuries on an ad hoc self-supporting basis. Forming an independent record label, or \"indie\" label, or signing to such a label continues to be a popular choice for up-and-coming musicians, especially in genres like hardcore punk and extreme metal, despite the fact that indies cannot offer the same financial backing of major labels. Some bands prefer to sign with an indie label, because these labels typically give performers more artistic freedom.\n\nIn the first decade of the 2000s, digitally downloaded and streamed music became more popular than buying physical recordings (e.g. CDs, records and tapes). This gave consumers almost \"friction-less\" access to a wider variety of music than ever before, across multiple devices. At the same time, consumers spent less money on recorded music (both physically and digitally distributed) than they had in the 1990s. Total \"music-business\" revenues in the U.S. dropped by half, from a high of $14.6 billion in 1999 to $6.3 billion in 2009, according to Forrester Research.\nWorldwide revenues for CDs, vinyl, cassettes and digital downloads fell from $36.9 billion in 2000 to $15.9 billion in 2010 according to IFPI. \"The Economist\" and \"The New York Times\" reported that the downward trend was expected to continue for the foreseeable future. This dramatic decline in revenue has caused large-scale layoffs inside the traditional industry, driven some more venerable retailers (such as Tower Records) out of business and forced record companies, record producers, studios, recording engineers and musicians to seek new business models.\nIn response to the rise of widespread illegal file sharing of digital music-recordings, the record industry took aggressive legal action. In 2001 it succeeded in shutting down the popular music-website Napster, and threatened legal action against thousands of individuals who participated in sharing music-song sound-files. However, this failed to slow the decline in music-recording revenue and proved a public-relations disaster for the music industry. Some academic studies have even suggested that downloads did not cause the decline in sales of recordings. The 2008 British Music Rights survey showed that 80% of people in Britain wanted a legal peer-to-peer (P2P) file-sharing service, however only half of the respondents thought that the music's creators should be paid. The survey was consistent with the results of earlier research conducted in the United States, upon which the Open Music Model was based.\nLegal digital downloads became widely available with the debut of the Apple iTunes Store in 2003. The popularity of music distribution over the Internet has increased, and by 2011 digital music sales topped physical sales of music.\nAtlantic Records reports that digital sales have surpassed physical sales.\nHowever, as \"The Economist\" reported, \"paid digital downloads grew rapidly, but did not begin to make up for the loss of revenue from CDs\".\nAfter 2010, Internet-based services such as Deezer, Pandora, Spotify, and Apple's iTunes Radio began to offer subscription-based \"pay to stream\" services over the Internet. With streaming services, the user pays a subscription to a company for the right to listen to songs and other media from a library. Whereas with legal digital download services, the purchaser owns a digital copy of the song (which they can keep on their computer or on a digital media player), with streaming services, the user never downloads the song file or owns the song file. The subscriber can only listen to the song for as long as they continue to pay the streaming subscription. Once the user stops paying the subscription, they cannot listen to audio from the company's repositories anymore. Streaming services began to have a serious impact on the industry in 2014.\n\nSpotify, together with the music-streaming industry in general, faces some criticism from artists claiming they are not being fairly compensated for their work as downloaded-music sales decline and music-streaming increases. Unlike physical or download sales, which pay a fixed price per song or album, Spotify pays artists based on their \"market share\" (the number of streams for their songs as a proportion of total songs streamed on the service). Spotify distributes approximately 70% to rights-holders, who will then pay artists based on their individual agreements. The variable, and (some say) inadequate nature of this compensation, has led to criticism. Spotify reports paying on average US$0.006 to US$0.008 per stream. In response to concerns, Spotify claims that they are benefiting the music business by migrating \"them away from piracy and less monetised platforms and allowing them to generate far greater royalties than before\" by encouraging users to use their paid service.\n\nThe Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) revealed in its 2015 earnings report that streaming services were responsible for 34.3 percent of the year's U.S. recorded-music-industry revenue, growing 29 percent from the previous year and becoming the largest source of income, pulling in around $2.4 billion. US streaming revenue grew 57 percent to $1.6 billion in the first half of 2016 and accounted for almost half of industry sales. This contrasts with the $14.6 billion in revenue that was received in 1999 by the U.S. music industry from the sale of CDs.\nThe turmoil in the recorded-music industry in the 2000s altered the historically anomalous twentieth-century balance between artists, record companies, promoters, retail music-stores and consumers. , big-box stores such as Wal-Mart and Best Buy sell more records than music-only CD stores, which have ceased to function as a major player in the music industry. Music-performing artists now rely on live performance and merchandise sales (T-shirts, sweatshirts, etc.) for the majority of their income, which in turn has made them more dependent - like pre-20th-century musicians - on patrons, now exemplified by music promoters such as Live Nation (which dominates tour promotion and owns or manages a large number of music venues). In order to benefit from all of an artist's income streams, record companies increasingly rely on the \"360 deal\", a new business-relationship pioneered by Robbie Williams and EMI in 2007.\nAt the other extreme, record companies can offer a simple manufacturing- and distribution-deal, which gives a higher percentage to the artist, but does not cover the expenses of marketing and promotion.\nCompanies like Kickstarter help independent musicians produce their albums through fans funding bands they want to listen to. Many newer artists no longer see a record deal as an integral part of their business plan at all. Inexpensive recording-hardware and -software make it possible to record reasonable-quality music on a laptop in a bedroom and to distribute it over the Internet to a worldwide audience. This, in turn, has caused problems for recording studios, record producers and audio engineers: the \"Los Angeles Times\" reports that as many as half of the recording facilities in that city have failed.\nChanges in the music industry have given consumers access to a wider variety of music than ever before, at a price that gradually approaches zero. However, consumer spending on music-related software and hardware increased dramatically over the last decade, providing a valuable new income-stream for technology companies such as Apple Inc. and Pandora Radio.\n\nThe music industry is a complex system of many different organizations, firms and individuals. It has undergone dramatic changes in the first decades of the 21st century. However, the majority of the participants in the music industry still fulfill their traditional roles, which are described below. There are three types of property that are created and sold by the recording industry: compositions (songs, pieces, lyrics), recordings (audio and video) and media (such as CDs or MP3s, and DVDs). There may be many recordings of a single composition and a single recording will typically be distributed via many media. For example, the song \"My Way\" is owned by its composers, Paul Anka and Claude François, Frank Sinatra's recording of \"My Way\" is owned by Capitol Records, Sid Vicious's recording of \"My Way\" is owned by Virgin Records, and the millions of CDs and vinyl records that can play these recordings are owned by millions of individual consumers.\n\nSongs, instrumental pieces and other musical compositions are created by songwriters or composers and are originally owned by the composer, although they may be sold or the rights may be otherwise assigned. For example, in the case of work for hire, the composition is owned immediately by another party. Traditionally, the copyright owner licenses or \"assigns\" some of their rights to publishing companies, by means of a publishing contract. The publishing company (or a collection society operating on behalf of many such publishers, songwriters and composers) collects fees (known as \"publishing royalties\") when the composition is used. A portion of the royalties are paid by the publishing company to the copyright owner, depending on the terms of the contract. Sheet music provides an income stream that is paid exclusively to the composers and their publishing company. Typically (although not universally), the publishing company will provide the owner with an advance against future earnings when the publishing contract is signed. A publishing company will also promote the compositions, such as by acquiring song \"placements\" on television or in films.\n\nRecordings are created by recording artists, which includes singers, musicians (including session musicians) and musical ensembles (e.g., backing bands, rhythm sections, orchestras, etc.) usually with the assistance and guidance from record producers and audio engineers. They were traditionally made in recording studios (which are rented for a daily or hourly rate) in a recording session. In the 21st century, advances in digital recording technology have allowed many producers and artists to create \"home studios\" using high-end computers and digital recording programs like Protools, bypassing the traditional role of the commercial recording studio. The record producer oversees all aspects of the recording, making many of the logistic, financial and artistic decisions in cooperation with the artists. The record producer has a range of different responsibilities including choosing material and/or working with the composers, hiring session musicians, helping to arrange the songs, overseeing the musician performances, and directing the audio engineer during recording and mixing to get the best sound. Audio engineers (including recording, mixing and mastering engineers) are responsible for ensuring good audio quality during the recording. They select and set up microphones and use effects units and mixing consoles to adjust the sound and level of the music. A recording session may also require the services of an arranger, orchestrator, studio musicians, session musicians, vocal coaches, or even a discreetly-hired ghostwriter to help with the lyrics or songwriting.\nRecordings are (traditionally) owned by record companies. Some artists own their own record companies (e.g., Ani DiFranco). A recording contract specifies the business relationship between a recording artist and the record company. In a traditional contract, the company provides an advance to the artist who agrees to record music that will be owned by the company. The A&R department of a record company is responsible for finding new talent and overseeing the recording process. The company pays for the recording costs and the cost of promoting and marketing the record. For physical media (such as CDs), the company also pays to manufacture and distribute the physical recordings. Smaller record companies (known as \"indies\") will form business relationships with other companies to handle many of these tasks. The record company pays the recording artist a portion of the income from the sale of the recordings, also known as a \"royalty\", but this is distinct from the publishing royalties described above. This portion is similar to a percentage, but may be limited or expanded by a number of factors (such as free goods, recoupable expenses, bonuses, etc.) that are specified by the record contract. Session musicians and orchestra members (as well as a few recording artists in special markets) are under contract to provide work for hire; they are typically only paid one-time fees or regular wages for their services, rather than ongoing royalties.\n\nPhysical media (such as CDs or vinyl records) are sold by music retailers and are owned by the consumers after they buy them. Buyers do not typically have the right to make digital copies from CDs or other media they buy, or rent or lease the CDs, because they do not own the recording on the CD, they only own the individual physical CD. A music distributor delivers crates of the packaged physical media from the manufacturer to the retailer and maintains commercial relationships with retailers and record companies. The music retailer pays the distributor, who in turn pays the record company for the recordings. The record company pays mechanical royalties to the publisher and composer via a collection society. The record company then pays royalties, if contractually obligated, to the recording artist. In the case of digital downloads or online streaming of music, there is no physical media other than the consumer's computer memory on his or her portable media player or laptop. For this reason, artists such as Taylor Swift, Paul McCartney, Kings of Leon, and others have called for legal changes that would deny social media the right to stream their music without paying them royalties. In the digital and online music market of the 2000s, the distributor becomes optional. Large online shops may pay the labels directly, but digital distributors do exist to provide distribution services for vendors large and small. When purchasing digital downloads or listening to music streaming, the consumer may be required to agree to record company and vendor licensing terms beyond those which are inherent in copyright; for example, some services may allow consumers to freely share the recording, but others may restrict the user to storing the music on a specific number of hard drives or devices.\n\nWhen a recording is broadcast (either on radio or by a background music service such as Muzak), performance rights organisations (such as the ASCAP and BMI in the US, SOCAN in Canada, or MCPS and PRS in the UK), collect a third type of royalty known as a performance royalty, which is paid to songwriters, composers and recording artists. This royalty is typically much smaller than publishing or mechanical royalties. Within the past decade, more than \"15 to 30 percent\" of tracks on streaming services are unidentified with a specific artist. Jeff Price says \"Audiam, an online music streaming service, has made over several hundred thousand dollars in the past year from collecting royalties from online streaming. According to Ken Levitan, manager from Kings of Leon, Cheap Trick and others, \"Youtube has become radio for kids\". Because of the overuse of YouTube and offline streaming, album sales have fallen by 60 percent in the past few years. When recordings are used in television and film, the composer and their publishing company are typically paid through a synchronization license. In the 2000s, online subscription services (such as Rhapsody) also provide an income stream directly to record companies, and through them, to artists, contracts permitting.\n\nA promoter brings together a performing artist and a venue owner and arranges contracts. A booking agency represents the artist to promoters, makes deals and books performances. Consumers usually buy tickets either from the venue or from a ticket distribution service such as Ticketmaster. In the US, Live Nation is the dominant company in all of these roles: they own most of the large venues in the US, they are the largest promoter, and they own Ticketmaster. Choices about where and when to tour are decided by the artist's management and the artist, sometimes in consultation with the record company. Record companies may finance a tour in the hopes that it will help promote the sale of recordings. However, in the 21st century, it has become more common to release recordings to promote ticket sales for live shows, rather than book tours to promote the sales of recordings.\n\nMajor, successful artists will usually employ a road crew: a semi-permanent touring organization that travels with the artist during concert series. The road crew is headed by a tour manager. Crew members provides stage lighting, live sound reinforcement, musical instrument tuning and maintenance, bodyguard for the artist and transportation of the equipment and music ensemble members. On large tours, the road crew may also include an accountant, stage manager, hairdressers, makeup artists and catering staff. Local crews are typically hired to help move equipment on and off stage. On a small tour with less financial backing, all of these jobs may be handled by just a few roadies or by the musicians themselves. Bands signed with small \"indie\" labels and bands in genres such as hardcore punk are more likely to do tours without a road crew, or with minimal support.\n\nArtists such as singers and musicians may hire a number of people from other fields to assist them with their career. The artist manager oversees all aspects of an artist's career in exchange for a percentage of the artist's income. An entertainment lawyer assists them with the details of their contracts with record companies and other deals. A business manager handles financial transactions, taxes and bookkeeping. Unions, such as AFTRA and the American Federation of Musicians in the U.S. provide health insurance and instrument insurance for musicians. A successful artist functions in the market as a brand and, as such, they may derive income from many other streams, such as merchandise, personal endorsements, appearances (without performing) at events or Internet-based services. These are typically overseen by the artist's manager and take the form of relationships between the artist and companies that specialize in these products. Singers may also hire a vocal coach, dance instructor, acting coach, personal trainer or life coach to help them.\n\nIn the 2000s, traditional lines that once divided singers, instrumentalists, publishers, record companies, distributors, retail and consumer electronics have become blurred or erased. Artists may record in a home studio using a high-end laptop and a digital recording program such as Protools or use Kickstarter to raise money for an expensive studio recording session without involving a record company. Artists may choose to exclusively promote and market themselves using only free online video sharing services such as YouTube or using social media websites, bypassing traditional promotion and marketing by a record company. In the 2000s, consumer electronics and computer companies such as Apple Computer have become digital music retailers. New digital music distribution technologies and the trends towards using sampling of older songs in new songs or blending different songs to create \"mashup\" recordings have also forced both governments and the music industry to re-examine the definitions of intellectual property and the rights of all the parties involved. Also compounding the issue of defining copyright boundaries is the fact that the definition of \"royalty\" and \"copyright\" varies from country to country and region to region, which changes the terms of some of these business relationships.\n\nAccording to IFPI, the global digital album sales grew by 6.9% in 2014.\nSource: Nielsen SoundScan, Official Charts Company/BPI, GfK and IFPI estimate.\n\nPrior to December 1998, the industry was dominated by the \"Big Six\": Sony Music and BMG had not yet merged, and PolyGram had not yet been absorbed into Universal Music Group. After the PolyGram-Universal merger, the 1998 market shares reflected a \"Big Five\", commanding 77.4% of the market, as follows, according to MEI World Report 2000:\n\nIn 2004, the joint venture of Sony and BMG created the 'Big Four' at a time the global market was estimated at $30–40 billion. Total annual unit sales (CDs, music videos, MP3s) in 2004 were 3 billion. Additionally, according to an IFPI report published in August 2005, the big four accounted for 71.7% of retail music sales:\n\nNielsen SoundScan in their 2011 report noted that the \"big four\" controlled about 88% of the market:\n\nAfter the absorption of EMI by Sony Music Entertainment and Universal Music Group in December 2011 the \"big three\" were created and on January 8, 2013 after the merger there were layoffs of forty workers from EMI. European regulators forced Universal Music to spin off EMI assets which became the Parlophone Label Group which was acquired by Warner Music Group. Nielsen SoundScan issued a report in 2012, noting that these labels controlled 88.5% of the market, and further noted:\n\nNote: the IFPI and Nielsen Soundscan use different methodologies, which makes their figures difficult to compare casually, and impossible to compare scientifically.\nCurrent Markets shares as of September 2018 are as follows:\n\nThe largest players in this industry own more than 100 subsidiary record labels or sublabels, each specializing in a certain market niche. Only the industry's most popular artists are signed directly to the major label. These companies account for more than half of US market share. However, this has fallen somewhat in recent years, as the new digital environment allows smaller labels to compete more effectively.\n\nTotal album sales have declined in the early decades of the 21st century, leading some music critics to declare the death of the album. (For instance, the only albums that went platinum in the US in 2014 were the soundtrack to the Disney animated film \"Frozen\" and Taylor Swift's \"1989\", whereas several artists did in 2013.) The following table shows album sales and market value in the world in 2014.\n\nSource: IFPI 2014 annual report.\n\nIn its June 30, 2000 annual report filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Seagram reported that Universal Music Group made 40% of the worldwide classical music sales over the preceding year.\n\nInterim physical retail sales in 2005. All figures in millions.\n\nApproximately 21% of the gross CD revenue numbers in 2003 can be attributed to used CD sales. This number grew to approximately 27% in 2007. The growth is attributed to increasing on-line sales of used product by outlets such as Amazon.com, the growth of used music media is expected to continue to grow as the cost of digital downloads continues to rise. The sale of used goods financially benefits the vendors and online marketplaces, but in the United States, the first-sale doctrine prevents copyright owners (record labels and publishers, generally) from \"double dipping\" through a levy on the sale of used music.\n\nIn mid-2011, the RIAA trumpeted a sales increase of 5% over 2010, stating that \"there's probably no one single reason\" for the bump.\n\nThe Nielsen Company & Billboard's 2012 Industry Report shows overall music sales increased 3.1% over 2011. Digital sales caused this increase, with a Digital Album sales growth of 14.1% and Digital Track sales growth of 5.1%, whereas Physical Music sales decreased by 12.8% versus 2011. Despite the decrease, physical albums were still the dominant album format. Vinyl Record sales increased by 17.7% and Holiday Season Album sales decreased by 7.1%.\n\nGlobal trade revenue according to the IFPI.\n\n\n\nIn the 15 or so years of the Internet economy, the digital music industry has come a long way, but there are still major hurdles to cross. Platforms like iTunes, Spotify, and Google Play are major improvements over the early illegal file sharing days, but the multitude of service offerings and revenue models make it difficult to understand the true value of each and what they can deliver for musicians and music companies. These difficulties are further compounded by the fact that, according to a new study from the Berklee College of Music and its Rethink Music initiative, there are major transparency problems throughout the music industry caused by outdated technology. With the emerging of new business models as streaming platforms, and online music services, a large amount of data is processed. Access to big data may increase transparency in the industry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19883345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19883345", "title": "North American Conference on Chinese Linguistics", "text": "North American Conference on Chinese Linguistics\n\nThe North American Conference on Chinese Linguistics (NACCL) is an annual academic conference that focuses on research in Chinese language and linguistics. \n\nThe conference was first held in 1989 at Ohio State University, as the Northeast Conference on Chinese Linguistics (NECCL), and changed its name to \"North American Conference on Chinese Linguistics\" at its third annual session in 1991. It is held every year in late spring, and includes both theoretical and empirical research from all subfields of Chinese linguistics; presenters include graduate students in addition to professors and other well-established scholars. The conference generally hosts talks both in Chinese and in English. The proceedings are published annually after the conference is finished; after NACCL-20 in 2008, the proceedings were published online for the first time.\n\nSubjects presented include: Sociolinguistics, Phonetics/Phonology, Syntax, Semantics, Pragmatics, Orthography, Historical linguistics, Computational/Corpus Linguistics, Language Acquisition, Psycholinguistics, and Morphology. \n\n"}
{"id": "46025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46025", "title": "Omnipotence paradox", "text": "Omnipotence paradox\n\nThe omnipotence paradox is a family of paradoxes that arise with some understandings of the term 'omnipotent'. The paradox arises, for example, if one assumes that an omnipotent being has no limits and is capable of realizing any outcome, even logically contradictory ideas such as creating square circles. A no-limits understanding of omnipotence such as this has been rejected by theologians from Thomas Aquinas to contemporary philosophers of religion, such as Alvin Plantinga. Atheological arguments based on the omnipotence paradox are sometimes described as evidence for atheism, though Christian theologians and philosophers, such as Norman Geisler and William Lane Craig, contend that a no-limits understanding of omnipotence is not relevant to orthodox Christian theology. Other possible resolutions to the paradox hinge on the definition of omnipotence applied and the nature of God regarding this application and whether or not omnipotence is directed toward God himself or outward toward his external surroundings.\n\nThe omnipotence paradox has medieval origins, dating at least to the 12th century. It was addressed by Averroës and later by Thomas Aquinas. Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite (before 532) has a predecessor version of the paradox, asking whether it is possible for God to \"deny himself\".\n\nThe most well-known version of the omnipotence paradox is the so-called \"paradox of the stone\": \"Could God create a stone so heavy that even He could not lift it?\" This phrasing of the omnipotence paradox is vulnerable to objections based on the physical nature of gravity, such as how the weight of an object depends on what the local gravitational field is. Alternative statements of the paradox that do not involve such difficulties include \"If given the axioms of Euclidean geometry, can an omnipotent being create a triangle whose angles do not add up to 180 degrees?\" and \"Can God create a prison so secure that he cannot escape from it?\".\n\nA common modern version of the omnipotence paradox is expressed in the question: \"Can [an omnipotent being] create a stone so heavy that it cannot lift it?\" This question generates a dilemma. The being can either create a stone it cannot lift, or it cannot create a stone it cannot lift. If the being \"can\" create a stone that it cannot lift, then it seems that it can cease to be omnipotent. If the being \"cannot\" create a stone it cannot lift, then it seems it is already not omnipotent.\n\nA related issue is whether the concept of 'logically possible' is different for a world in which omnipotence exists than a world in which omnipotence does not exist.\n\nThe dilemma of omnipotence is similar to another classic paradox—the irresistible force paradox: \"What would happen if an irresistible force were to meet an immovable object?\" One response to this paradox is to disallow its formulation, by saying that if a force is irresistible, then by definition there is no immovable object; or conversely, if an immovable object exists, then by definition no force can be irresistible. Some claim that the only way out of this paradox is if the irresistible force and immovable object never meet. But this is not a way out, because an object cannot in principle be immovable if a force exists that can in principle move it, regardless of whether the force and the object actually meet. \n\nPeter Geach describes and rejects four levels of omnipotence. He also defines and defends a lesser notion of the \"almightiness\" of God.\n\n\nAugustine of Hippo in his City of God writes \"God is called omnipotent on account of His doing what He wills\" and thus proposes the definition that \"Y is omnipotent\" means \"If Y wishes to do X then Y can and does do X\". \nThe notion of omnipotence can also be applied to an entity in different ways. An essentially omnipotent being is an entity that is necessarily omnipotent. In contrast, an accidentally omnipotent being is an entity that can be omnipotent for a temporary period of time, and then becomes non-omnipotent. The omnipotence paradox can be applied to each type of being differently.\n\nSome Philosophers, such as René Descartes, argue that God is absolutely omnipotent. In addition, some philosophers have considered the assumption that a being is either omnipotent or non-omnipotent to be a false dilemma, as it neglects the possibility of varying degrees of omnipotence. Some modern approaches to the problem have involved semantic debates over whether language—and therefore philosophy—can meaningfully address the concept of omnipotence itself.\n\nA common response from Christian philosophers, such as Norman Geisler or William Lane Craig, is that the paradox assumes a wrong definition of omnipotence. Omnipotence, they say, does not mean that God can do anything \"at all\" but, rather, that he can do \"anything that's possible according to his nature.\" The distinction is important. God cannot perform logical absurdities; he cannot, for instance, make 1+1=3. Likewise, God cannot make a being greater than himself because he is, by definition, the greatest possible being. God is limited in his actions to his nature. The Bible supports this, they assert, in passages such as Hebrews 6:18, which says it is \"impossible for God to lie.\"\n\nAnother common response to the omnipotence paradox is to try to define omnipotence to mean something weaker than absolute omnipotence, such as definition 3 or 4 above. The paradox can be resolved by simply stipulating that omnipotence does not require that the being have abilities that are logically impossible, but only be able to do anything that conforms to the laws of logic. A good example of a modern defender of this line of reasoning is George Mavrodes. Essentially, Mavrodes argues that it is no limitation on a being's omnipotence to say that it cannot make a round square. Such a \"task\" is termed by him a \"pseudo-task\" as it is self-contradictory and inherently nonsense. Harry Frankfurt—following from Descartes—has responded to this solution with a proposal of his own: that God can create a stone impossible to lift and also lift said stoneFor why should God not be able to perform the task in question? To be sure, it is a task—the task of lifting a stone which He cannot lift—whose description is self-contradictory. But if God is supposed capable of performing one task whose description is self-contradictory—that of creating the problematic stone in the first place—why should He not be supposed capable of performing another—that of lifting the stone? After all, is there any greater trick in performing two logically impossible tasks than there is in performing one?\n\nIf a being is \"accidentally omnipotent\", it can resolve the paradox by creating a stone it cannot lift, thereby becoming non-omnipotent. Unlike essentially omnipotent entities, it is possible for an accidentally omnipotent being to be non-omnipotent. This raises the question, however, of whether or not the being was ever truly omnipotent, or just capable of great power. On the other hand, the ability to voluntarily give up great power is often thought of as central to the notion of the Christian Incarnation.\n\nIf a being is \"essentially omnipotent\", then it can also resolve the paradox (as long as we take omnipotence not to require absolute omnipotence). The omnipotent being is essentially omnipotent, and therefore it is impossible for it to be non-omnipotent. Further, the omnipotent being can do what is logically impossible—just like the accidentally omnipotent—and have no limitations except the inability to become non-omnipotent. The omnipotent being cannot create a stone it cannot lift.\n\nThe omnipotent being cannot create such a stone because its power is equal to itself—thus, removing the omnipotence, for there can only be one omnipotent being, but it nevertheless retains its omnipotence. This solution works even with definition 2—as long as we also know the being is essentially omnipotent rather than accidentally so. However, it is possible for non-omnipotent beings to compromise their own powers, which presents the paradox that non-omnipotent beings can do something (to themselves) which an essentially omnipotent being cannot do (to itself). This was essentially the position Augustine of Hippo took in his \"The City of God\":For He is called omnipotent on account of His doing what He wills, not on account of His suffering what He wills not; for if that should befall Him, He would by no means be omnipotent. Wherefore, He cannot do some things for the very reason that He is omnipotent.\n\nThus Augustine argued that God could not do anything or create any situation that would, in effect, make God not God.\n\nIn a 1955 article in the philosophy journal \"Mind\", J. L. Mackie tried to resolve the paradox by distinguishing between first-order omnipotence (unlimited power to act) and second-order omnipotence (unlimited power to determine what powers to act things shall have). An omnipotent being with both first and second-order omnipotence at a particular time might restrict its own power to act and, henceforth, cease to be omnipotent in either sense. There has been considerable philosophical dispute since Mackie, as to the best way to formulate the paradox of omnipotence in formal logic.\n\n\nAnother common response is that since God is supposedly omnipotent, the phrase \"could not lift\" does not make sense and the paradox is meaningless. This may mean that the complexity involved in rightly understanding omnipotence—contra all the logical details involved in misunderstanding it—is a function of the fact that omnipotence, like infinity, is perceived at all by contrasting reference to those complex and variable things, \"which it is not\". An alternative meaning, however, is that a non-corporeal God cannot lift anything, but can raise it (a linguistic pedantry)—or to use the beliefs of Hindus (that there is one God, who can be manifest as several different beings) that whilst it is possible for God to do all things, it is not possible for all his incarnations to do them. As such, God could create a stone so heavy that, in one incarnation, he couldn't lift it, yet could do something that an incarnation that \"could\" lift the stone could not.\n\nThe lifting a rock paradox (\"Can God lift a stone larger than he can carry?\") uses human characteristics to cover up the main skeletal structure of the question. With these assumptions made, two arguments can stem from it:\n\n\nThe act of killing oneself is not applicable to an omnipotent being, since, despite that such an act does involve some power, it also involves a \"lack\" of power: the human person who can kill himself is already not indestructible, and, in fact, every agent constituting his environment is more powerful in some ways than himself. In other words, all non-omnipotent agents are concretely \"synthetic\": constructed as contingencies of other, smaller, agents, meaning that they, unlike an omnipotent agent, logically can exist not only in multiple instantiation (by being constructed out of the more basic agents they are made of), but are each bound to a different location in space contra transcendent omnipresence.\n\nThomas Aquinas asserts that the paradox arises from a misunderstanding of omnipotence. He maintains that inherent contradictions and logical impossibilities do not fall under the omnipotence of God. J. L Cowan sees this paradox as a reason to reject the concept of 'absolute' omnipotence, while others, such as René Descartes, argue that God is absolutely omnipotent, despite the problem.\n\nC. S. Lewis argues that when talking about omnipotence, referencing \"a rock so heavy that God cannot lift it\" is nonsense just as much as referencing \"a square circle\"; that it is not logically coherent in terms of power to think that omnipotence includes the power to do the logically impossible. So asking \"Can God create a rock so heavy that even he cannot lift it?\" is just as much nonsense as asking \"Can God draw a square circle?\" The logical contradiction here being God's simultaneous ability and disability in lifting the rock: the statement \"God can lift this rock\" must have a truth value of either true or false, it cannot possess both. This is justified by observing that for the omnipotent agent to create such a stone, it must already be more powerful than itself: such a stone is too heavy for the omnipotent agent to lift, but the omnipotent agent already can create such a stone; If an omnipotent agent already is more powerful than itself, then it already is just that powerful. This means that its power to create a stone that’s too heavy for it to lift is identical to its power to lift that very stone. While this doesn’t quite make complete sense, Lewis wished to stress its implicit point: that even within the attempt to prove that the concept of omnipotence is immediately incoherent, one admits that it is immediately coherent, and that the only difference is that this attempt is forced to admit this despite that the attempt is constituted by a perfectly irrational route to its own unwilling end, with a perfectly irrational set of 'things' included in that end.\n\nIn other words, the 'limit' on what omnipotence 'can' do is not a \"limit\" on its actual agency, but an \"epistemological boundary\" without which omnipotence could not be \"identified\" (paradoxically or otherwise) in the first place. In fact, this process is merely a fancier form of the classic Liar Paradox: If I say, \"I am a liar\", then how can it be true if I am telling the truth therewith, and, if I am telling the truth therewith, then how can I be a liar? So, to think that omnipotence is an \"epistemological\" paradox is like failing to recognize that, when taking the statement, 'I am a liar' self-referentially, the statement is reduced to an actual failure to lie. In other words, if one maintains the supposedly 'initial' position that the necessary conception of omnipotence includes the 'power' to compromise both itself and all other identity, and if one concludes from this position that omnipotence is epistemologically incoherent, then one implicitly is asserting that one's own 'initial' position is incoherent. Therefore, the question (and therefore the perceived paradox) is meaningless. Nonsense does not suddenly acquire sense and meaning with the addition of the two words, \"God can\" before it. Lewis additionally said that, \"Unless something is self-evident, nothing can be proved.\" This implies for the debate on omnipotence that, \"as in matter, so in the human understanding of truth: it takes no true insight to destroy a perfectly integrated structure, and the effort to destroy has greater effect than an equal effort to build; so, a man is thought a fool who assumes its integrity, and thought an abomination who argues for it. It is easier to teach a fish to swim in outer space than to convince a room full of ignorant fools why it cannot be done.\"\n\nThe philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein is frequently interpreted as arguing that language is not up to the task of describing the kind of power an omnipotent being would have. In his \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\", he stays generally within the realm of logical positivism until claim 6.4—but at 6.41 and following, he argues that ethics and several other issues are \"transcendental\" subjects that we cannot examine with language. Wittgenstein also mentions the will, life after death, and God—arguing that, \"When the answer cannot be put into words, neither can the question be put into words.\"\n\nWittgenstein's work expresses the omnipotence paradox as a problem in semantics—the study of how we give symbols meaning. (The retort \"That's only semantics,\" is a way of saying that a statement only concerns the definitions of words, instead of anything important in the physical world.) According to the \"Tractatus,\" then, even attempting to formulate the omnipotence paradox is futile, since language cannot refer to the entities the paradox considers. The final proposition of the \"Tractatus\" gives Wittgenstein's dictum for these circumstances: \"What we cannot speak of, we must pass over in silence\".\n\nWittgenstein's approach to these problems is influential among other 20th century religious thinkers such as D. Z. Phillips. In his later years, however, Wittgenstein wrote works often interpreted as conflicting with his positions in the \"Tractatus\", and indeed the later Wittgenstein is mainly seen as the leading critic of the early Wittgenstein.\n\nIn the 6th century, Pseudo-Dionysius claims that a version of the omnipotence paradox constituted the dispute between Paul the Apostle and Elymas the Magician mentioned in Acts 13:8, but it is phrased in terms of a debate as to whether or not God can \"deny himself\" ala 2 Tim 2:13. In the 11th century, Anselm of Canterbury argues that there are many things that God cannot do, but that nonetheless he counts as omnipotent.\n\nThomas Aquinas advanced a version of the omnipotence paradox by asking whether God could create a triangle with internal angles that did not add up to 180 degrees. As Aquinas put it in Summa contra Gentiles:\n\nThis can be done on a sphere, and not on a flat surface. The later invention of non-Euclidean geometry does not resolve this question; for one might as well ask, \"If given the axioms of Riemannian geometry, can an omnipotent being create a triangle whose angles \"do not\" add up to \"more\" than 180 degrees?\" In either case, the real question is whether or not an omnipotent being would have the ability to evade consequences that follow logically from a system of axioms that the being created.\n\nA version of the paradox can also be seen in non-theological contexts. A similar problem occurs when accessing legislative or parliamentary sovereignty, which holds a specific legal institution to be omnipotent in legal power, and in particular such an institution's ability to regulate itself.\n\nIn a sense, the classic statement of the omnipotence paradox — a rock so heavy that its omnipotent creator cannot lift it — is grounded in Aristotelian science. After all, if we consider the stone's position relative to the sun the planet orbits around, one could hold that the stone is \"constantly\" lifted—strained though that interpretation would be in the present context. Modern physics indicates that the choice of phrasing about lifting stones should relate to acceleration; however, this does not in itself of course invalidate the fundamental concept of the generalized omnipotence paradox. However, one could easily modify the classic statement as follows: \"An omnipotent being creates a universe that follows the laws of Aristotelian physics. Within this universe, can the omnipotent being create a stone so heavy that the being cannot lift it?\"\n\nEthan Allen's \"Reason\" addresses the topics of original sin, theodicy and several others in classic Enlightenment fashion. In Chapter 3, section IV, he notes that \"omnipotence itself\" could not exempt animal life from mortality, since change and death are defining attributes of such life. He argues, \"the one cannot be without the other, any more than there could be a compact number of mountains without valleys, or that I could exist and not exist at the same time, or that God should effect any other contradiction in nature.\" Labeled by his friends a Deist, Allen accepted the notion of a divine being, though throughout \"Reason\" he argues that even a divine being must be circumscribed by logic.\n\nIn \"Principles of Philosophy,\" Descartes tried refuting the existence of atoms with a variation of this argument, claiming God could not create things so indivisible that he could not divide them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22637593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22637593", "title": "Oregon Bar, Butte County, California", "text": "Oregon Bar, Butte County, California\n\nOregon Bar is a former settlement in Butte County, California. It was located on the West Branch of the Feather River below Nelson Bar. It is now under Lake Oroville.\n"}
{"id": "41111937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41111937", "title": "Political appointments in the United States", "text": "Political appointments in the United States\n\nAccording to the United States Office of Government Ethics, a political appointee is \"any employee who is appointed by the President, the Vice President, or agency head\". As of 2016, there are around 4,000 political appointment positions which an incoming administration needs to review, and fill or confirm, of which about 1,200 require Senate confirmation.\n\nThese positions are published in the \"United States Government Policy and Supporting Positions\" (Plum Book), a new edition of which is released after each United States presidential election. \n\nThere are four basic categories of political appointments:\n\n\n\n\nUnlike the presidential appointments, the non-career SES and Schedule C appointments tend to be made within each agency and then approved by the Office of Presidential Personnel.\n\nPolitical appointees, referring broadly to anyone appointed by the President, the Vice President, or agency head, are subject to more ethics restrictions than regular executive-branch employees. There are two categories of appointees, and each category is subject to additional and slightly different ethics restrictions.\nPolitical appointees are required to take an ethics pledge not to accept gifts from lobbyists. This is because of Executive Order 13490 Under of Executive Order 12674, political appointees who are appointed by the president are not allowed to receive any income from outside employment or activities. Exceptions to the gift rule include:\nPolitical appointees sometimes attempt to transfer to a career position in the competitive service, excepted service, or Senior Executive Service. This practice, known as \"burrowing in\", is desired by employees due to increased pay and job security, as career positions do not end when a presidential administration changes. As these appointed positions are selected noncompetitively, while career employees are supposed to be selected on the basis of merit and without political influence, these conversions are subject to extra scrutiny. Since 2010, such conversions require advance approval from OPM, and the Government Accountability Office (GAO) periodically audits the conversions. In 2008, members of Congress criticized the Department of Homeland Security and Department of Justice for improperly allowing political employees to convert to career positions.\n\nIn the politics of the United States, the system of political appointments comes from a history of the spoils system (also known as a patronage system) which is a practice where a political party, after winning an election, gives government jobs to its supporters, friends and relatives as a reward for working toward victory. The term was derived from the phrase \"to the victor belong the spoils\" by New York Senator William L. Marcy, referring to the victory of the Jackson Democrats in the election of 1828, with the term \"spoils\" meaning goods or benefits taken from the loser in a competition, election or military victory. Though it is commonly assumed that the patronage system in the United States first came into general use during Andrew Jackson's presidency, it actually has an older history. President Thomas Jefferson, a Democratic-Republican, favored a policy of keeping rival Federalists out of government.\n\nThe patronage system thrived in the U.S. federal government until 1883. In 1820 Congress limited federal administrators to four-year terms, which led to constant turnover; by the 1860s and the Civil War, patronage had led to widespread inefficiency and political corruption. Although it used to be confined to cabinet positions, department heads, and foreign ambassadorships, by the 1860s patronage had spread to low-level government positions. This meant that when the incumbent political party lost a presidential election, the federal government underwent wholesale turnover.\n\nOn July 2, 1881, Charles J. Guiteau, a disaffected and mentally unstable political office seeker, assassinated President James Garfield. This highlighted how much the patronage problem had gotten out of control, and shifted public opinion, convincing the United States that the President of the United States had more important things to do than to engage in patronage. Congress was eventually spurred to pass the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act of 1883, which created a Civil Service Commission and advocated a merit system for selecting government employees.\n\nIn addition, passage of the Hatch Act of 1939 forbade the intimidation or bribery of voters and restricted political campaign activities by federal employees. It prohibited using any public funds designated for relief or public works for electoral purposes. It forbade officials paid with federal funds from using promises of jobs, promotion, financial assistance, contracts, or any other benefit to coerce campaign contributions or political support, which restricted most partisan political activities of federal employees. By 1980, 90% of federal positions had become part of the civil service system, which lead to state and local governments to employed large patronage systems. Big-city political machines in places such as New York City, Boston, and Chicago thrived in the late nineteenth century. Being as a patronage system not only rewarded political supporters for past support, it also encouraged future support, because persons who have a patronage job would try to retain it by campaigning for the party at the next election. Large-scale patronage systems declined steadily during the twentieth century. During the Progressive Era (1900–1920), \"good government\" reformers overthrew political machines and installed civil service systems. Chicago, under Mayor Richard J. Daley, remained the last bastion of patronage, existing in its purest form until the late 1970s. In today’s more observant standards, politicians wanted to pull away from the negative intonation of the name casting of Patronage, and Spoil system which led them to rename the process “Political Appointments”.\n\nThe United States has more political appointees in government than any other industrialized democracy in the world. Even though the United States has one of the largest populations of political appointees in the system, the efficiency of political appointees is constantly shifting. Political appointees are engraved in everyday decisions even making the final call on major events. As of 2013, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services was lacking a Senate-confirmed adminitrator since 2006 when Marilyn Tavenner was acting administrator. At least 60 positions for appointment remain vacant and 45 positions have remained vacant for more than a year.\n\nJudicial vacancies have also become a problem as well with numerous open seats for circuit and district judges left to be filled. At the end of President Obama's first term, thirteen percent of presidential-appointee positions had not been filled. Political appointees also come under heat for their own actions including Ben Bernanke's involvement with private banks and also Michael Brown's involvement in Hurricane Katrina. One study published in the \"Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory \"by Nick Gallo and David Lewis evaluated more than 350 managers with a program assessment rating tool (\"PART\") to determine efficacy and found that programs run by political appointees tended to be less effective. Furthermore, those with previous government experience or appointees who had not worked for a political campaign tended be more effective than appointees with experience in the business or non-profit sectors. Gallo and Lewis stated that they thought careerist and appointees should work in a balanced atmosphere to be more productive and share skills. Professional rapport between careerists and appointees is considered in a study of presidential environmental appointees by Matthew Auer. Auer found that oft-mentioned problems in the appointment system, such as short time-in-office and lack of government experience were less pronounced among top federal environmental appointees, across both Republican and Democratic administrations.\n\n"}
{"id": "32398661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32398661", "title": "Post-politics", "text": "Post-politics\n\nPost-politics refers to the critique of the emergence, in the post-Cold War period, of a politics of consensus on a global scale: the dissolution of the Eastern Communist bloc following the collapse of the Berlin Wall instituted a promise for post-ideological consensus. The political development in post-communist countries went two different directions depending on the approach each of them take on dealing with the communist party members. Active decommunisation process took place in Eastern European states which later joined EU. While in Russia and majority of former USSR republics communists became one of many political parties on equal grounds.\n\nGenerated by a cohort of radical philosophers – namely Jacques Rancière, Alain Badiou and Slavoj Žižek – and their concern with politics as the institution of radical, active equality, this critique claims that the post-ideological politics of consensus has occasioned the systematic foreclosure of the properly political moment: with the institution of a series of new “post-democratic\" governmental techniques, internal politics proper is reduced to social administration. Meanwhile, with the rise of the postmodernist \"politics of self\" comes a concomitant new \"politics of conduct\", in which political values are replaced by moral ones (what Chantal Mouffe terms \"politics in the register of morality\").\n\nThe disintegration of the Eastern communist bloc following the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 announced the end of the Cold War era, and with it the great ideological stand-off between East and West, between the communist and capitalist worlds. In eyes of Western society Capitalism emerged the victor with liberal democracy as its corresponding political doctrine. With the fall of state-communism in Eastern Europe and Eurasia as the final blow to an already crisis-ridden system, the USSR as a key political player on side of communism abandoned its social democratic, Keynesian form; and neoliberalism entered a new global phase. In the USSR the main driver for this change was idea of \"convergention\" between socialism and communism formulated by Andrej Sakharov in his Nobel price speech. With Francis Fukuyama's End of History as its founding statement, this was the birth of the post-political, post-ideological \"Zeitgeist\".\n\nAlongside Fukuyama, various other intellectual currents are associated with the consolidation of the post-political consensus. The \"reflexive modernity\" thesis of post-industrial sociologists Anthony Giddens and Ulrich Beck, for example, has acted as the intellectual accompaniment to Third Way politics. In \"reflexive modernity\", say these authors, the central imperative of political action shifts from issues of social welfare (a politics of redistribution) to the management of \"risk\" (a politics of \"distributive responsibility\"): that is, the \"environmental externalities\" that are the ever more visible, unwanted by-products of techno-economic progress. For both Beck and Giddens it is this imperative, and the new \"social reflexivity\" that has developed in response – rather than instrumental rationality or, crucially, political struggle – that has driven the profound social changes of the post-war period. Indeed, for Giddens, it is \"social reflexivity\" – the enhanced autonomy of individual action called forth by the dispersal of socio-technological knowledge and risk in \"post-traditional\" society – that paves the way for:\nAccording to both Beck and Giddens, these changes render obsolete material, class-based, ideologically grounded politics organised via traditional, collective forms such as the party or trade union. In their place, we see the emergence of a new “politics of self” (“subpolitics” in Beck; “life politics\" in Giddens) in which, as part of the wider post-modern turn, issues previously considered to be purely personal enter the political arena.\n\nNot all commentators agree with this version of events, however, and it is the critical perspectives considered in this section from which the post-political critique derives. Nikolas Rose, for example, counters Beck and Giddens by highlighting the role of a new governmental \"politics of conduct\" in forging the political subjectivities that emerge with the advent of Third Way politics in Britain under New Labour (and, by extension, in developed nations in the post-industrial period). Against Giddens' \"social reflexivity\"-based account, Rose's study of this new \"ethopolitics\" suggests that it is the strictures of the new, market individualist (Schumpeterian) forms of governance-beyond-the-state that has driven the recent emphasis on the autonomous, freedom-aspiring, self-sufficient individual. A key feature of \"ethopolitics\", says Rose, is its concern with the ethical, rather than political sensibilities of its subjects; a trend wholly consistent with the moralistic turn that politics took on under neoliberalism. Indeed, in his work on the decline of the public sector in Britain, David Marquand relates the moral ideology that – via the wider \"revenge of the private\" – underpinned the neoliberal reforms and sell-offs imposed on the sector by the Thatcher and Blair governments. This is a key development to which the post-political critique responds: Mouffe speaks here of “politics played out in the register of morality”; while Rancière’s re-envisioning of the political is an express challenge against the de-politicisation of political philosophy that occurred with the field’s Aristotlean, “ethical” turn in the late 1980s.\n\nSimilarly, while Beck points to environmentalism as a paradigm case of the progressive potential of the personalisation of politics, Erik Swyngedouw reminds us that in the guise in which it most often appears in the developed world, environmentalism's emphasis on personal lifestyle choices and on particularist struggles against the locally felt effects of environmental \"bads\" can work to draw attention away from the properly political issue of human society's structural relationship with nature. Likewise, Beck celebrates the new scepticism associated with post-modern, identity-based politics as a progressive consequence of the universal uncertainty that characterises risk society. By contrast, critics lament the profound consequences that the anti-essentialist position on truth has had for the imagination of \"grand narratives\" (read political teleologies) – for proponents of the post-political critique, it is these grand narratives that are the real substance of politics.\n\nProponents of the post-political critique do not represent a united theoretical body. Nonetheless, and excepting Mouffe, the philosophers associated with this critique are sometimes treated together, based on:\nWhat Rancière, Badiou and Žižek, along with Mouffe, agree upon is that under the present post-political conjuncture we have seen a systematic foreclosure of the \"properly political dimension\", the reinstitution of which will depend upon a radical re-envisioning of our notion of the political.\n\nAgainst the widespread resignation to addressing politics solely at the ontic or empirical level – that is, a concern with the \"facts of politics\" or with politics as 'the exercise of power or the deciding of common affairs' – this re-envisioning must, they say, concern itself with the ontological dimension of politics: that is, with the essence of the political. While each conceptualises the properly political in different ways, all agree upon its irreducibly and inherently antagonistic dimension: a radical-progressive position must, says Žižek, 'insist on the unconditional primacy of the inherent antagonism as constitutive of the political'. Hence the charge that post-politics, with consensus as its defining logic, forecloses the properly political.\n\nRancière's work reclaims the notion of politics. For him, the latter does not consist in 'the exercise of power or the deciding of common affairs', as is ordinarily assumed. Rather, if politics is born out of the fact of sharing a common space and thus common concerns; and if 'every decision on common affairs requires the prior existence of the common', politics proper surely, says Rancière, denotes the inherent antagonism that exists between competing representations of this common.\n\nFrom this basis, Rancière's account of the political proceeds via the distinction he draws between this latter notion of politics proper (\"le politique\") (as antagonism), and what he terms the police or police order (\"la police\"). The fundamental divergence between politics proper and the police, says Rancière, is their respective representations of the common. The former not only recognises, but also calls forth the contested nature of the common. Meanwhile, the police:\n\n‘…symbolises the community as an ensemble of well-defined parts, places and functions, and of the properties and capabilities linked to them, all of which presupposes a fixed distribution of things into common and private – a distinction which itself depends on an ordered distribution of the visible and the invisible, noise and speech, etc…This way of counting [parts, places and functions] simultaneously defines the ways of being, doing, and saying appropriate to these places.'\n\nIn this sense (and although he disagrees with Foucault on some crucial points), Rancière's definition of police is akin to that given to it in Michel Foucault's work.\n\nRancière's aesthetic conceptualisation of politics allows him to take Foucault's \"police\" one step further: not only, says Rancière, does the specific allocation of “parts” given in the police order govern ‘the ways of being, doing and saying’ (i.e. the behavioural codes 'appropriate to these places'); rather, as the nomination suggests, this particular \"partition of the \"perceptible\"\" also acts to draw, and subsequently police, the very boundaries of what is and is not visible, audible, comprehendible – in short, perceptible – under this order.\n\nThis distinctive insight derives in part from Rancière's enquiry into the origins of democracy and in part from the centrality to his theory of the notion of \"mésentente\". While translated into English simply as \"disagreement\" (with obvious reference to the constitutively antagonistic element of politics, as discussed above), in French \"mésentente\" also implies, in a speech situation, the fact of misunderstanding between parties, or more precisely in the Rancièrian sense of \"talking past one another\". Rancière's point here is to underline that the fact of misunderstanding is not a neutral one: rather, the partition of the perceptible given in the police order decides whether an enunciation is heard as speech or instead as noise; as rational discourse (as in deliberative democratic theory, such as that of Jürgen Habermas or John Rawls), or instead as a grunt or moan. In Rancière, the fact of labelling a voice \"inaudible\" is, therefore, associated with the denial of the subject of that voice as a (political) subject.\n\nAs suggested above, in so far as the “count” always entails a “miscount” (i.e. denies the subjecthood of certain constituencies), the “logic of the proper” according to which the police order operates is incommensurable with the logic of active, radical equality proposed by Rancière. Grounded in his account of the usurpatory action that instituted the demos as the locus of popular sovereignty in ancient Athens, Rancière defines democracy as 'the specific power of those who have no common title to exercise power, except that of not being entitled to its exercise': 'democracy is the paradoxical power of those who do not count: the count of the unaccounted for’. The properly and essentially political \"sequence\" (to borrow a term from Badiou), then, arises in the rare moment in which \"les sans-part\" exercise this title and make their \"usurpatory claim\" to a stake in the common: in this moment of “political subjectivation” – that is, the coming into being of a new political subject – the logic of equality meets with and violently unclothes the inegalitarian police logic of the proper; \"les sans-part\", asserting the audibility of their voice and the visibility of their collective body, thus seize their place in the partition of the perceptible and overturn the inaugural “wrong” done to them by a police order whose count left them unaccounted for.\n\nFor Rancière, this moment of dramatic ‘rupture in the order of legitimacy and domination’ is a constant possibility and as such posits the ultimate contingency of any given police order. This assertion is explained by the specific agency lent to \"les sans-part\" by the nature of their relationship to the police. Rancière is at pains to underline that \"les sans-part\" is not so much a social class or group excluded and thus awaiting incorporation: that would imply not only a procedural account of equality but also the existence of the emergent political subject – as an identity pre-given in the police order – prior to the political moment, both scenarios not worthy of the name politics according to Rancière. \"Les sans-part\" should instead be thought of as a supernumerary category, existing 'at once nowhere and everywhere': '…political subjects are \"supernumerary\" collectives which call into question the counting of the community's parts and the relations of inclusion and exclusion which define that count. Subjects…\"are not reducible\" to social groups or identities but are, rather, collectives of enunciation and demonstration \"surplus\" to the count of social groups'.\n\nIt is from this conceptualisation that \"les sans-part\" derive their agency: crucially, the police logic of the proper is a logic ‘predicated upon saturation’, upon the assumption that it is possible to designate society as a totality \" groups performing specific functions and occupying determined spaces\". As the at-once visible/invisible proof of the age-old adage that, contrary to this logic, 'the whole is more than the sum of its parts', the very existence of \"les sans-parts\" as \"excess\" therefore radically negates the police logic of the proper.\n\nThere would seem to be a contradiction that appears in Rancière's schema (outlined above): political subjectivation entails assertion of a place, yet it also negates the very logic of places, of the proper. Rancière deals with this by specifying that the political moment is called forth only to the extent that the 'part of the no-part' is asserted in such a way that it forms an identification 'with the community as a whole.' Rancière's claim is that this distinctly universalist gesture works to deny the particularist logic that partitions social space into a series of private, proper places, functions and parts, thus resolving the aforementioned contradiction. In his account of the (post-)political, Slavoj Žižek also insists heavily on the role of the universal. For Žižek, a situation becomes political when:\n\n…a particular demand…starts to function as a metaphoric condensation of the global [universal] opposition against Them, those in power, so that the protest is no longer just about that demand, but about the universal dimension that resonates in that particular demand…What post-politics tends to prevent is precisely this metaphoric universalisation of particular demands.\n\nIn terms of dealing with the aforementioned contradiction, however, Žižek's concept of the \"indivisible remainder\" is somewhat more instructive than his emphasis on the universal. The figure of the \"remainder\" of course corresponds closely to that of \"excess\" or \"surplus\" in Rancière. Meanwhile, the notion of \"indivisibility\" implies a strong resistance to partitioning (perhaps stronger than the universalist gesture upon which Rancière relies).\n\nIn this respect, the ontological status of the remainder in Žižek comes closer to that of the privileged figure of Badiou's \"non-expressive dialectics\": the generic set. Derived from mathematical set theory, a generic set is the name given by its discoverer Paul Cohen to 'the mathematical object without clear description, without name, without place in the classification…[it is] an object the characteristic of which is to have no name'. It therefore offers the solution to the fundamental problem of politics, which according to Badiou presents itself as follows: if in the battle between the suturing logic of Law (the police) and the emancipatory logic of Desire, Desire must necessarily always be directed at something beyond the ontological universe specified by Law, the crucial problem for political action must be to find ways of naming the object of Desire without prescribing it and thus subsuming it back under the ontological domain of Law, as this would be to negate Desire, and with it the possibility of politics. With genericity being closely associated to universality in Badiou's work, the latter therefore contributes a great deal to developing the notion of \"surplus\" or \"excess\" in both Rancière and Žižek. It also points more resolutely than does Rancière to the designation of politics proper as the moment of institution of an entirely new conception of the social totality. Or, as Žižek puts it: ‘…[A]uthentic politics…is the art of the impossible – it changes the very parameters of what is considered \"possible\" in the existing constellation'; hence also, for Žižek, its inherently antagonistic dimension.\n\nThe figure of excess fulfils a different purpose in Mouffe's theory of the political, which rests heavily on her and Laclau's notion of hegemony. According to Dikec, hegemony in Laclau and Mouffe's image presupposes the impossibility of 'a totally sutured society, or, in other words, a total closure of the social'. This is because hegemony is possible only through antagonism; and antagonism, in turn, can exist only through lack or surplus: consensus, in this view, is never a complete closure; rather, it only ever exists as the ‘temporary result of a provisional hegemony’. Insofar as it rests on an assertion of the impossibility of saturation, Mouffe's critique of post-politics therefore displays some commonality with those of Rancière, Badiou and Žižek. Mouffe's resistance to saturation, however, is explained by her post-structuralist politico-theoretical persuasion and its attendant anti-essentialism. In this respect, her theory of the political differs widely from the above-mentioned philosophers, all of whom, while inspired in various ways by it, are careful to distance themselves from post-structuralist thought, not least on account of the contribution it has in their eyes made to the consolidation of the post-political Zeitgeist. It also explains the absence of the universalist gesture in Mouffe. Indeed, as explained above, the political is the struggle for hegemonic control over the particular content that is to stand-in for the Universal. An authentic universality is therefore impossible.\n\nThe present conjuncture is characterised as post-political not insofar as it denies equality: on the contrary in the advanced liberal democracies that are the heartlands of post-politics, formal equality is declared triumphant, leaving only the “perfection” of democracy via more participative, deliberative mechanisms. Rather, from the philosophical perspective outlined above, post-politics is characterised as such insofar as its insistence on saturation and its denial of excess are particularly strong. Thus, under the present, liberal democratic conjuncture, the drive towards the democratic inclusion of all has particularly suturing effects. Meanwhile, the insistence on the achievement of formal equality is especially ignorant to the fact of \"surplus\". Despite the concerted strategies of consensual incorporation or exclusion directed at it, the persistence of \"surplus\" is clearly evidenced in the present period: firstly in the deepening of real-world, material inequalities and secondly in those properly political gestures that resist the conditional nature of (post-)democratic participation: that is, that resist accession to the post-political consensus.\n\nAs both Žižek and Badiou explicitly recognise, the post-political scenario is particularly well-advanced in the ecological sphere. Following this cue, environmental geographer Erik Swyngedouw has led an emerging literature that identifies within environmental politics many of the classic symptoms of the post-political condition.\n\nAs noted above, the post-political configuration is characterised by the disciplining role of consensus. With the market and the liberal state as it organising principles, the present global \"meta-level\" consensus has taken cosmopolitanism and humanitarianism as the central and uncontestable tenets of its corresponding moral (rather than political) value system. In the nearly twenty years since the Rio Earth Summit (1992), sustainability has not only established itself as an additional tenet of this moral order. In so doing, it has also stepped in as one of the primary post-ideological \"ideologies\" of the present age: as Swyngedouw notes, as a concept sustainability is so devoid of properly political content that it is impossible to disagree with its objectives.\n\nSwyngedouw's analysis of the particular representation of nature called forth by sustainability discourse explains why this is so. He argues that the nature that enters political debate via sustainability discourse is a radically conservative and reactionary one that posits a singular, ontologically stable and harmonious Nature thrown \"out of synch\" by human intervention. In denying the plurality, complexity and unpredictability of actually existing natures, sustainability \"codes\" nature in such a way as to pose status quo (read market-based) solutions that side-step debate over the properly political question of what kind of socio-environmental futures we wish to inhabit.\n\nThe post-political condition is characterised by the rise of experts. Although certainly exercised in a democratic fashion (i.e. via the deliberative engagement described by Giddens' social reflexivity thesis (see above)), expert adjudication nonetheless comes to substitute properly political debate.\n\nThis trend is particularly visible in the environmental sphere. According to Gert Goeminne and Karen François, more concerning still than the increasing \"colonisation\" of this sphere by science is that it is a radically depoliticised version of science that is doing the colonising. Drawing heavily from Bruno Latour, Goeminne and François' work serves to problematise the representational work done by science: science is neither a neutral conductor of material reality that produces “facts”, nor should its legitimacy to speak on behalf of nature escape scrutiny. By contrast, ‘…the fact-value divide of the Modern Constitution acts to obscure the work of composition that goes into the construction of a matter of fact’, thus giving way to the post-political configuration, in which politics is reduced to 'the administration and management of processes whose parameters are defined by consensual socio-scientific knowledges'. In environmental politics, then, 'disagreement is allowed, but only with respect to the choice of technologies, the mix of organisational fixes, the details of the managerial adjustments, and the urgency of the timing and implementation'. Regarding global climate adaptation and mitigation, that debate over climate scientists' varying interpretations of crucial tipping points diverts attention from questions of \"climate justice\" is a case in point.\n\nThe technocratic, \"post-democratic\" tendency ushered in with the neoliberal transition towards governance-beyond-the-state (henceforth governance) has therefore been reinforced by consensus politics. And as the environmental sphere has been a particularly privileged site for experimentation in neoliberal governance, so too is it particularly vulnerable to the post-political tendency. The neoliberal shift in environmental policy implementation was signalled in the 1990s by the growing influence of New Public Management (NPM) and increasing preference for new environmental policy instruments (NEPIs). Meanwhile, one need only point to the predominance of quantitative measures such as Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) or the vast regulatory apparatuses associated with the new and burgeoning carbon markets as evidence of what Mitchell Dean has labelled \"post-democratic\" concern with metricisation, accountancy, auditing and benchmarking.\n\nAlongside this latter concern, Dean, along with Barbara Cruikshank, also associates the \"post-democratic\" turn with a series of new \"technologies of citizenship\". As forms of biopower, these latter work to increasingly displace 'regulatory competence' onto the morally responsible, autonomous subject that the state increasingly seeks to forge.\n\nAs both Žižek and Rancière argue, under post-politics the political claims of particular groups are denied their potentially universal character. Oosterlynk and Swyngedouw's application of the post-political critique to the dispute over noise pollution associated with Brussels airport is a classic example: the geographically differentiated impact of noise pollution was used to pit residents’ associations against one another, precluding the potential that a universal claim against the global \"just-in-time\" economy (the ultimate source of increased flights) be articulated.\n\nPopulism, as the residue of the properly political, is the ultimate symptom of the post-political condition. Firstly, the post-political consensus itself tends towards populist gestures as a substitute for the properly political. Secondly, popular frustration with the confines of consensual politics inevitably gives way to alternatives that, faced with the depoliticising strategies of the consensual order, often take a populist form.\n\nOne of the most characteristic features of populism is its invocation of a common, external threat or enemy. The homogenising, unifying effect of this invocation is what produces the mythical – but more importantly reactionary and invariably exclusionary – notion of \"the people\" that is so central to the populist gesture. Swyngedouw shows that in climate politics \"the people\" becomes a united \"humanity\" facing a common predicament, regardless of the differentiated responsibility for and capacity to respond to anthropogenic climate change. Following other scholars who have analysed the alarmist tone of climate discourse, Swyngedouw also underlines that the millenarian, apocalyptic imaginaries called forth by the latter create an external threat, while also giving way to an elite-led, almost crusade-like action (the latter being a further classic feature of populism). The environmental consensus therefore entails a populist dimension.\n\nMeanwhile, as Žižek has shown, disaffection with the consensus tends to favour Far Right movements, whose populist tactics respond to the same need to substitute the properly political described above; and whose violent gestures mimic the properly political impetus towards antagonism. On the other hand, properly political claims that resist both consensual strategies of incorporation and what Žižek has called \"the populist temptation\" are made audible only as violent or fanatical outbursts. In the environmental arena, media coverage of \"resource wars\" is a prime example of disputes that may well have a properly political dimension (though may not, of course, necessarily be progressive or without populist dimensions, of course) being neutralised in this way.\n\n"}
{"id": "53624834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53624834", "title": "Rearing Horse and Mounted Warrior", "text": "Rearing Horse and Mounted Warrior\n\nThe Rearing Horse and Mounted Warrior or Budapest horse is a bronze sculpture attributed to Leonardo da Vinci. Depicting Francis I of France on a destrier horse, it is estimated to have been cast from a clay or wax model in the first half of the 16th century. The sculpture is in the permanent exhibit of the Budapest Museum of Fine Arts.\n\nThe bronze statuette consists of the horse and a detachable rider. It has an applied green patina on top of black paint patina, typical of Renaissance works. Both parts are hollow, and attached together are 24 cm high, 15 cm wide, and 28 cm long ( by by ), and weigh . The parts were cast separately, including the horse's rump and tail section that was used to extract the core, but nevertheless at the same time. There is minimal trace of finishing on the statuette; many of the holes and casting flaws on both the horse and the rider have not been chiseled off or filled, which suggests an intent of preserving a model rather than making a final cast.\n\nThe rider is wearing a Greek-style helmet with its visor tipped up, encircled by a crown, with a serpent-tailed dragon on the back. He is holding a shield in his left hand, and originally had a sword or a lance in his right hand, but only the hilt is now left. Similar horses and riders, some in exactly the same position, are depicted in many of Leonardo's studies of horses owned by the Milanese nobleman Galéas de Saint-Séverin. The depiction of the rider is less defined than the horse or Leonardo's other works.\n\nHungarian art historian Mária Aggházy noticed a resemblance between the content-looking rider and the young Francis I of France, soon to be king, and Leonardo's patron from his later years. Francis was an avid participant in jousting tournaments, which in the more entertaining but also more dangerous French style were run with less armour and other equipment than in Italy. Aggházy theorised that the rider's light clothing, likely after a victorious duel, demonstrated bravery on Francis's part as he followed the chivalrous ideals of the Nine Worthies.\n\nIn 1516, after invitations from King Francis I of France and his predecessor, Louis XII of France, Leonardo moved to France and entered the service of Francis I. Art chronicler Gian Paolo Lomazzo, close to Leonardo's heirs, wrote in 1584 that Leonardo had made several models of horses for Francis. This statuette is believed to be one of them.\n\nTowards the end of his life, Leonardo was working on several equestrian monuments, and did several studies of horses on worksheets that have been preserved in the Royal Collection in Windsor Castle. This statuette was depicted in sketches from c.1490 and c.1517–1518 with and without the rider. By then Leonardo was unable to continue with artwork much beyond sketches, but did for instance supervise bronze casting of statues at the king's Palace of Fontainebleau.\n\nBy 1540, Leonardo's follower Leone Leoni was also commissioned to create an equestrian statuette while he was a court sculptor to Charles V, who governed Milan at the time. In 1549 and 1550, Leoni sent several letters to Antoine Perrenot de Granvelle requesting that Leonardo's statuette from the king's court be sent back to him. An equestrian bronze model was recorded in the Leoni collection at their home Casa degli Omenoni before the collection was dispersed by 1620.\n\nThe outline of the statuette also features in a c.1545 scrollwork from the Fontainebleau workshops of Francis I. The scrollwork has a detailed design for the decoration of a horse's chanfron head armour to be used in jousting.\n\nIn 1818, a Hungarian sculptor, István Ferenczy, moved from Hungary to Rome and spent 6 years there as a student of the acclaimed sculptors Bertel Thorvaldsen and Antonio Canova. During his stay in Rome, Ferenczy gathered a collection of 82 works of art, including this statuette, which he had acquired in the mistaken belief that it was a Greek work. In 1846 he prepared an inventory with the intention of selling the collection to the Hungarian state, still with the statuette as an ancient work from Athens, but the sale did not go through. As Ferenczy's will stated that the crates of his collection were not to be opened for 50 years, the collection remained untouched for a long time after his death in 1856. The family reached a deal with the Museum of Fine Arts in Budapest and sold the collection to them in 1914, still none the wiser about the statuette. After discovering its provenance, the heirs sued the museum for a misleading sale and poor payments during the aftermath of World War I.\n\nSimon Meller, the curator of the Budapest museum, began exploring the statuette with more knowledge of Leonardo's equestrian works. He came to the conclusion that the style of the statuette is consistent with Leonardo's other works, particularly those in the studies for the painting of \"The Battle of Anghiari\" and the Trivulzio monument. He attributed the statuette to Leonardo da Vinci for the first time since the 17th century, and published it in a 1916 journal of the museums in the Prussian region. To mark the occasion, another sculptor in the Ferenczy family, Béni Ferenczy, gifted Meller a commemorative medal with a relief of the statuette. The statuette became a permanent exhibit in the museum in the 1920s.\n\nThe 1940s were a tumultuous time for Europe's artworks, with the statuette, the Holy Crown of Hungary, and many other works of art captured in the Nazi plunder. During World War II, Hungary joined the Axis powers in 1940. In September 1942, Russia unexpectedly bombed Budapest. The museum began the protection of their works of art by packing them into crates and moving them to lower floors. Considered one of the most precious works in the museum's collection, the statuette and the works of Old Masters were taken further west from the Eastern Front to Veszprém in early 1943. Once Hungary started attempts to reach peace with the Allies, Germany invaded the country in March 1944.\n\nThe Museum of Fine Arts was under the control of the Ministry of Education, where the newly installed Ferenc Rajniss, sympathetic to the Nazi rule, ordered the majority of the museum's artwork to be sent to Austria. The director of the museum had no trace of their whereabouts. In late 1944, the Red Army captured Budapest in the Budapest Offensive, and damaged or destroyed a large part of the buildings in the city. The Museum of Fine Arts building suffered damage to its roof, ruining the halls on the top floor, which prior to its evacuation housed the collection with the statuette. Some of the remaining artwork was smashed or burned by the Soviets. The museum did not hear of the evacuated art again until after the end of the war. In August 1945, they were contacted by the \"Monuments Men\" working in the Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives program in Munich. They had been cataloging art looted by the Nazis, and at the Munich Central Collecting Point had works of art from the Budapest Museum of Fine Arts. The statuette, along with most of the other artwork, was returned to the museum by 1947.\n\nThe statuette was exhibited in London in 1930. More recently, it was in New York, Washington and Atlanta in 2009, and in Los Angeles in 2010. During the renovation of the Budapest museum until 2018, it has been on another tour: Paris and Mantova, Italy in 2016, Madrid in 2017, and Buenos Aires in 2018.\n\nThe statuette was attributed to Leonardo in 1916 by Simon Meller, the curator at the Budapest Museum of Fine Arts, due to its similarities to Leonardo's drawings. Mária Aggházy summarised the attribution in the 1970s and 80s beyond the comparisons to Leonardo's drawings, by saying that the rider's composure matches the reported personality of the young to-be-king Francis I of France, that there is no armour or saddle as is suitable for French jousting, that the figure is wearing a royal-style crown ornament, and that the statuette was depicted in later French artwork for jousting.\n\nThe attribution has been widely accepted, more seriously than other sculpture attributions to Leonardo, and according to art historian Martin Kemp, is well supported. There is, however, some doubt, especially on the rider.\n\nIn the 1920s, following Meller's attribution, a dozen art scholars published their opinions about the statuette. Half of them, including Edmund Hildebrandt, agreed with Meller's attribution, and the rest thought it was a later work by one of Leonardo's pupils. L.H. Heydenreich wrote in 1954 that the statuette proves Leonardo's competency for casting in bronze. In more recent publications, Martin Kemp noted the unusual lack of attention to detail on the horse's anatomy, which others have echoed due to the extreme bending of the horse's hind legs and a perceived lack of energy typical to Leonardo's other works. The quality of the surface modelling suggests that the bronze cast may have been made by one of Leonardo's pupils from a wax model of his, as in one of Leonardo's worksheets he had made a note to himself to \"make a little one of wax about four inches long\" next to horse sketches. Kenneth Clark, Martin Kemp, and Carlo Pedretti all suggested that the note refers to the Budapest statue. Some believe the statuette is merely based on one of Leonardo's sketches. Giovanni Francesco Rustici has also been considered as the sculptor.\n\nTechnical evidence from a 2009 investigation organised by the National Gallery of Art suggests that the statuette was cast near or after Leonardo's death in 1519 using the lost wax technique. The composition of the metal alloy is identical in all the parts of the statuette, apart from the modern pin used to attach the rider.\n\nEquestrian statuettes with only slight variations to the \"Rearing Horse and Mounted Warrior\" have been discovered over the years. They are often referred to by their location. Particularly the \"Rearing Horse\" at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and in the Hunt Museum in Limerick, Ireland, have been considered as being by an early follower of Leonardo, such as Leone Leoni. The three were exhibited for the 1969 Congress of the Comité International d'Histoire de l'Art as \"Horses of Leonardo da Vinci\" with reservation on their attribution. For repeat exhibitions in the US in 2009–2010, the National Gallery of Art investigation confirmed the New York and Limerick horses to be the result of techniques and alloys available only since the 19th century. \n\nAnother horse, a mirror image of the New York statuette with the horse facing left, was in London in the collection of art critic Pierre Jeannerat (d. 1983). The London statuette was exhibited in 1961–62 in London, Amsterdam and Florence as Leonardo's, but has since been attributed to sculptors after the 17th century artist Jan de Bisschop. A similar statuette in the Speed Art Museum in Kentucky was once associated with this group of statuettes, but has since been attributed to Rustici or Willem Danielsz van Tetrode.\n\nThe provenance of the rider is disputed due to its size and lesser quality of work. Because the current attachment of the rider is modern, the horse lacks a saddle, and the rider is of smaller scale than the horse, the National Gallery of Art considered the possibility that the rider is a later addition. In their 2009 exhibit, the \"Rearing Horse\" was for the first time displayed separately from the \"Mounted Warrior\", which was placed beside the horse. The Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg, Russia, holds a horseman statuette that shares the crude features of the Budapest rider. Titled \"Warrior\", it has been attributed to Leone Leoni or one of his followers, and may be based on the same model as the \"Mounted Warrior\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2953988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2953988", "title": "Scottish Militia Bill", "text": "Scottish Militia Bill\n\nThe Scottish Militia Bill (known formerly as the Scotch Militia Bill) is the usual name given to a bill that was passed by the House of Commons and House of Lords of the Parliament of Great Britain in early 1708. However, on 11 March 1708, Queen Anne withheld royal assent on the advice of her ministers for fear that the proposed militia would be disloyal.\n\nThe bill's long title was \"An Act for settling the Militia of that Part of Great Britain called Scotland\". Its object was to arm the Scottish militia, which had not been recreated at the Restoration. This happened as the unification between Scotland and England under the Acts of Union 1707 had been passed.\n\nOn the day the bill was meant to be signed, news came that the French were sailing toward Scotland for the planned invasion of 1708 and there was suspicion that the Scottish might be disloyal. Therefore, support for a veto was strong.\n\nThe Scottish Militia Bill is the last bill to have been refused royal assent. Before this, King William III had vetoed bills passed by Parliament six times. Royal assent to bills and governments generally came to be viewed as a mere formality once both Houses of Parliament had successfully read a bill three times, or a general election had taken place.\n\nIn the British colonies, the denial of royal assent had continued past 1708, and was one of the primary complaints of the United States Declaration of Independence in 1776: that the King \"has refused his Assent to Laws, most wholesome and necessary for the public Good\" and \"He has forbidden his Governors to pass Laws of immediate and pressing Importance\".\n"}
{"id": "2126135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126135", "title": "Signs (journal)", "text": "Signs (journal)\n\nSigns: Journal of Women in Culture and Society is a peer-reviewed feminist academic journal. It was established in 1975 by Catharine R. Stimpson, and is published quarterly by the University of Chicago Press. \"Signs\" publishes essays examining the lives of women, men, and non-binary people around the globe from both historical and contemporary perspectives, as well as theoretical and critical articles addressing processes of gendering, sexualization, and racialization.\n\nThe founding of \"Signs\" in 1975 was part of the early development of the field of women's studies, born of the women's liberation movement of the late 1960s and 1970s. The journal had two founding purposes, as stated in the inaugural editorial: (1) \"to publish the new scholarship about women\" in the U.S. and around the globe, and (2) \"to be interdisciplinary.\" The goal was for readers of the journal to \"grasp a sense of the totality of women's lives and the realities of which they have been a part.\" The meaning behind the name \"Signs\" is that signs \"represent\" and \"point\": the original editors wanted the journal to \"represent the originality and rigor\" of women's studies and to \"point\" to new directions for feminist scholarship.\n\nFormer editor-in-chief Ruth-Ellen Boetcher Joeres said in an article in the Yale Journal of Criticism that \"Signs\", from its inception, was meant to be \"something different, even insurgent...an agent for change\", because it emerged from the \"grassroots\" feminist movement. Joeres explored the \"paradox\" of how a journal can be both an \"agent for change\" and regarded as \"respectable in the academy,\" and concluded with the hope that \"Signs\" could retain its activist roots and transform the academy.\n\nIn the effort to avoid the tendency of the academy to \"codify\" and limit scholarship, \"Signs\" rotates institutional homes roughly every 5 years. It is currently based at Northeastern University, with Suzanna Danuta Walters, Director of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies and Professor of Sociology, serving as editor-in-chief. In her inaugural editorial, Walters laid out five \"core concerns\" for \"Signs\": (1) for the field of women's studies to \"substantively reckon\" with gender and sexuality studies and queer studies; (2) to focus on \"racial and ethnic difference\"; (3) to re-emphasize \"inter- or transdisciplinarity\"; (4) to not lose sight of \"the big questions about gender and sexuality\" by getting too narrow in scope; and (5) to expand the journal's \"digital presence.\"\n\nThe history of \"Signs\" is explored extensively in Kelly Coogan-Gehr's 2011 book \"The Geopolitics of the Cold War and Narratives of Inclusion: Excavating a Feminist Archive\". Coogan-Gehr uses \"Signs\" as a case study to complicate what she calls the \"stock narrative of feminist field formation.\" She argues that dominant histories of the development of academic feminism, in focusing solely on the women's movement and other radical movements of the 1960s, fail to take into account the role of \"changes the Cold War produced in higher education.\" In the book, she calls \"Signs\" a \"premier academic feminist journal.\"\n\nIn 2015, \"Signs\" launched the Feminist Public Intellectuals Project, which seeks to engage feminist theorizing with pressing political and social problems via three open-access, online-first initiatives: Short Takes: Provocations on Public Feminism, Currents: Feminist Key Concepts and Controversies, and Ask a Feminist. Given the fragmentation of feminist activism and the persistent negative freighting of the term “feminist,” the Feminist Public Intellectuals Project seeks to reimagine what role a journal can play in provoking activism.\n\n\"Short Takes\" features commentaries by feminist activists and public intellectuals on recent books that \"have shaped popular conversations about feminist issues,\" alongside a response by the author. Featured books include Roxane Gay's \"Bad Feminist\", Rebecca Traister's \"All the Single Ladies\", and Andi Zeisler's \"We Were Feminists Once.\"\n\n\"Currents\" publishes essays that put forth \"a nuanced and edgy take on a key issue circulating in the feminist definitional landscape.\" Issues addressed include \"identity politics,\" \"trigger warnings,\" \"celebrity feminism,\" and \"affirmative consent.\"\n\n\"Ask a Feminist\" is an interview series that seeks to create \"conversation between and among feminist scholars, media activists, and community leaders,\" to bridge the divide between scholarship and activism. Recent features include \"Angela P. Harris on Gender and Gun Violence\" and \"Cathy J. Cohen on Black Lives Matter, Feminism, and Contemporary Activism.\"\n\n\"Signs\" awards the Catharine R. Stimpson Prize for Outstanding Feminist Scholarship, named for the founding editor-in-chief of \"Signs,\" biennially to the best paper from an international competition of \"emerging\" feminist scholars (meaning \"fewer than seven years since receipt of the terminal degree\"). The submissions are judged by an international jury of prominent feminist academics. Winners receive a $1,000 honorarium and have their papers published in \"Signs.\"\n\nThe 2017 co-winners of the Stimpson Prize were Cameron Awkward-Rich, for his essay \"Trans, Feminism: \"Or\", Reading like a Depressed Transsexual,\" and Meghan Healy-Clancy, for her essay \"The Family Politics of the Federation of South African Women: A History of Public Motherhood in Women's Antiracist Activism.\"\n\n\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 1.078, ranking it 16th out of 42 journals in the category \"Women's Studies\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39310528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39310528", "title": "Singapore Sling (1990 film)", "text": "Singapore Sling (1990 film)\n\nSingapore Sling: The Man Who Loved a Corpse (, tr. \"Singapore Sling: O Anthropos pou Agapise ena Ptoma\") is a 1990 Greek black and white dramatic experimental independent underground art film directed by Nikos Nikolaidis and regarded as his magnum opus. Considered a difficult film to label while still managing to develop something of a cult following throughout the years nonetheless, it was shot in a bizarre manner somewhat resembling film noir or neo-noir and black comedy as well as the exploitation, thriller, and crime genres mixed with some elements of eroticism and horror with sex being used as a power game and received a theatrical release in Greece on 6 December 1990.\n\nDespite Nikolaidis' career as a film director in his home country which stretches to the early 1960s he was almost entirely unknown outside Greece before the early 1990s and is still less known outside it and it was only with this film, which has immediately achieved cult status, that international fame came to him and it probably still remains the film for which he is best known today, as exemplified by the fact that it was released on DVD by Synapse Films, the only one of Nikolaidis' films to so far receive a home video release in North America. The film was officially selected for screening at the Rimini Film Festival.\n\nTwo mentally ill women who are clearly suffering from not otherwise specified delusional disorders, a mother and a (grown) daughter, live together in a secluded mansion. They are in a relationship and both are recognised for their beauty. They spend their days playing perverse BDSM-related incestuous games in memory of their sadistic patriarch who, when he was still alive, raped his daughter when she was eleven, murdered several servants, and is now a mummified corpse with which the daughter is shown having sex. They occasionally kill their servants and bury their bodies in the garden.\n\nWhen first glimpsed the psychotic mother-daughter protagonists, half-dressed, are burying their disemboweled chauffeur into a pit, they have just finished to dig in their backyard on a dark and stormy night with thunder and heavy rain. They lay down their shovels and drag out of the bushes, his fresh corpse. He was killed in one of their usual games combining incestuous sex with murder. Shortly after this and at first unnoticed by the two women, a lovesick detective pulls his car up to the residence. He is suffering from a painful bullet wound and an equally painful yearning to track down Laura, his long-missing beloved for whom he has been searching for three years and about whom it is known that she has visited the area. What he does not yet know is that he has stumbled onto the lair of two profoundly insane women who have already lured Laura into their home and brutally killed her (in the process decorating their kitchen with her viscera, as a flashback helpfully shows). It is also revealed that the daughter is physically very similar to Laura and is desperately looking for a man's companionship. \n\nThe duo then easily take the seriously wounded and bleeding detective, having already figured them out to be responsible for Laura's kidnapping, into their home, essentially kidnapping him. As the exhausted detective was silent and apparently refuses to speak, even in order to state his own name, the two women christen him 'Singapore Sling', after they discover a recipe in his pocket notebook for that type of cocktail. They use him as a pawn in their sexually tinged role-playing games and as a party to their distorted and perverse form of entertainment, during which Singapore Sling, now a prisoner, is tied up, chained to a bed, vomited on, electrocuted, used as a sex slave, and subjected to various other forms of torture and atrocities in which he is forced to participate. However, as Singapore Sling's confinement wears on he regains his strength and takes a more active role in the games. His deranged captors become concerned and alarmed when a sharp kitchen knife, belonging to the late father, goes missing and they discover Singapore Sling digging a deep hole in their backyard. As psychotic as these two are, they are still lucid enough to recognize that a killing is imminent, if not two or even three. In an atmosphere of decadence and dark madness, the characters gradually sink into the depths of their subconscious mind.\n\nA few days later, the daughter decides that she is fed up with having to suffer under the yoke of maternal authority, and, together with Singapore Sling, murders her mother. Singapore Sling then takes what up until now used to be the mother's role in the sexual games. However, during one of these games, a reenactment of Laura's murder, he stabs the daughter, playing Laura, with the aforementioned missing kitchen knife now attached to his penis. The daughter, while bleeding to death, shoots Singapore Sling and then he goes out to the garden and falls into the pit which he himself had recently dug. The film hence ends, in short, with all three characters dead.\n\n\nThe film's protagonist's search for a woman named Laura is a direct reference to the classic film noir \"Laura\" (1944) by American director Otto Preminger. The film uses as background music, in addition to classical music by Sergei Rachmaninoff and Giaches de Wert, the compositions used by Glenn Miller and Julie London in \"Laura\" (1944).\n\nDirector Nikos Nikolaidis said the following about this film's reception during an interview: \"When I was shooting \"Singapore Sling\", I was under the impression that I was making a comedy with elements taken from Ancient Greek Tragedy... Later, when some European and American critics characterized it as 'one of the most disturbing films of all times,' I started to feel that something was wrong with me. Then, when British censors banned its release in England, I finally realized that something is wrong with all of us.\"\n\nThe Icelandic neo-psychedelia band Singapore Sling is named after the film. As the band's frontman Henrik Björnsson explained in a June 2003 interview with Belgium's VRT Radio 1: \"We had a first gig. It was booked and we didn't have a name and I had been looking for a film called \"Singapore Sling\" for a long time. I couldn't find it anywhere. It sounded cool, so that became the name of the band. It's some kind of dark, perverse Greek film from 1990. I haven't found it yet, so if you know someone who has it, please let me know. I hope it's good. A dark perverse noir film and a guy who has sex with a corpse. And he's called Singapore Sling.\" In November 2005, after the completion of his last film \"The Zero Years\", a tale of perversion and sexual dominance which failed to replicate the earlier success of \"Singapore Sling\", Nikolaidis declared his intention to stop making movies in order to deal with music. On 13 November 2012, \"The Projection Booth\", a weekly podcast discussing films from a wide variety of genres with in-depth critical analysis hosted by critics Mike White and Rob St. Mary, dedicated an episode to \"Singapore Sling\" featuring as a guest Professor Vrasidas Karalis, an expert on Greek cinema and the author of \"A History of Greek Cinema\", as well as a professional dominatrix who goes by the pseudonym of »Fräulein von B.« as a guest co-host.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31622826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31622826", "title": "Smarthistory", "text": "Smarthistory\n\nSmarthistory is a free resource for the study of art history created by art historians Beth Harris and Steven Zucker. Smarthistory is an independent not-for-profit organization and the official partner to Khan Academy for art history.\n\nSmarthistory started in 2005 as an audio guide series for use at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, The Museum of Modern Art in New York City, and as a resource for students taking introductory art history courses at the college level. In addition to its focus on college-level courses in art history, Smarthistory supports the art history Advanced Placement course and examination developed by The College Board. Smarthistory provides essays, video, photographs, and links to additional resources for each of the 250 works of art and architecture that comprise the new AP art history curriculum.\n\nSmarthistory has published 1500 videos and essays on art and cultural history from the Paleolithic era to the 21st century that include the art of Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe, and Oceania. Smarthistory's essays have been contributed by more than 200 art historians, curators, and archaeologists writing in their areas of focus. Videos are unscripted conversations between experts recorded on location in front of the original work of art or architecture.\n\nAccording to the Smarthistory about page:\n\nIn an article in the Brooklyn \"New York Daily News\", staff writer Elizabeth Lazarowitz quotes Steven Zucker, \"Art can be really intimidating for people\", said Zucker. \"If we can make art feel exciting and interesting and very much relevant to a historical moment...art can have real meaning.\" Unlike reading about art in a book, \"the idea of the audio was to keep a student's eyes on the image\", he explained. \"It helped students to learn the material a lot better.\"\n\nIn a collaborative article by Beth Harris and Steven Zucker, the founders explain the value of the resource for teachers, students, and informal learners: \"Smarthistory is helping teachers who are not specialists in art history find strategies to make the subject accessible and meaningful to students who might otherwise not have cultural resources available to them. And for college students, the site is fast becoming an attractive alternative to the commercial textbook whose short life cycle and $100+ price tag has increasingly become a barrier.\"\n\nIn a \"Chronicle for Higher Education\" article, Beth Harris is quoted on the ambitions and goals of Smarthistory: \"We really just wanted to re-embed the objects in our world\", says Harris, who is the founder and executive editor of Smarthistory as well as the director of digital learning at a New York City museum. \"We thought that that would make them more relevant and more engaging for students.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3991526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3991526", "title": "Solar cycle (calendar)", "text": "Solar cycle (calendar)\n\nThe solar cycle is a 28-year cycle of the Julian calendar with respect to the week. It occurs because leap years occur every 4 years and there are 7 possible days to start a leap year, making a 28-year sequence.\n\nThis cycle also occurs in the Gregorian calendar, but it is interrupted by years such as 1800, 1900, 2100, 2200, 2300 and 2500, which are divisible by four but which are common years. This interruption has the effect of skipping 16 years of the solar cycle between February 28 and March 1. Because the Gregorian cycle of 400 years has exactly 146,097 days, i.e. exactly 20,871 weeks, one can say that the Gregorian so-called solar cycle lasts 400 years.\n\nCalendar years are usually marked by Dominical letters indicating the first Sunday in a new year, thus the term solar cycle can also refer to a repeating sequence of Dominical letters.\n\nUnless a year is not a leap year due to Gregorian exceptions, a sequence of calendars is reused every 28 years.\n\nThe name \"solar cycle\" comes from \"Sunday\", the traditional first day of the week.\n\nThe dominical letter in the Julian calendar depends only on the remainder of the year mod 28.\n\nThe years 1700, 1800, and 1900 were not leap years (unlike the Julian calendar) and do not fit in the tables of Dominical letters below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50650242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50650242", "title": "Stepan Smal-Stotsky", "text": "Stepan Smal-Stotsky\n\nStepan Yosypovych Smal-Stotsky () was a Ukrainian linguist and academician, slavist, cultural and political figure, member of the Union for the Liberation of Ukraine, and ambassador of the West Ukrainian People's Republic in Prague.\n\nHis doctorate on Slavic philology accepted Franc Miklošič at the University of Vienna in 1885.\n\nSmal-Stotsky is a father of Roman Smal-Stocki and a grandfather of George S. N. Luckyj.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44073122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44073122", "title": "Swiss Swedish origin legend", "text": "Swiss Swedish origin legend\n\nIn legend and in the early historiography of Switzerland there is an account of a migration of a population of Swedes and Frisians settling in the Swiss Alps, specifically in Schwyz and in Hasli (\"Schwedensage\").\n\nThe legend is discussed in Ericus Olai's \"Chronica regni Gothorum\" (c. 1470). Olai notes that the Swiss (\"Svitenses\") claimed to be descended from \"Swedes or Goths\". Olai also notes the similarity in toponymy, \"Swycia, quasi Suecia\". This is reflected in a late-15th-century gloss from Reichenau reading \"Suecia, alias Helvicia, inde Helvici, id est Suetones.\"\n\nA near-contemporary record is that of Petermann Etterlin, who wrote in the 1470s (printed as \"Chronicle of the Swiss Confederation\" in 1507).\nEtterlin telling the legend refers to \"the Swedes, who are now called the Switzer\" (\"die Schwediger, so man yetz nempt Switzer\") presents an eponymous founder, one \"Suit\" (\"Swit, Schwyt, Switer\"), leader of the migrating Swedes, who defeated his brother \"Scheyg\" in single combat in a dispute over leadership of the new settlement.\nHe gives an account of their decision to settle on the site of Schwyz:\nEtterlin's account is supposedly based on a \"common Swiss chronicle\" (\"Gesta Suitensium\", \"gemeine Schwyzerchronik\") also reflected in the White Book of Sarnen, Heinrich von Gundelfingen (\"Das Herkommen der Schwyzer und Oberhasler\") and later by Aegidius Tschudi (\"Die Geschichte der Ostfriesen, Swedier und andre, so mit jnen gereisset, vnd wie Switer dem Lande den Namen Swiz gegeben\"). \nEtterlin presents the three \"Waldstätten\" as representing three different stocks or races, the people of Schwyz as the most recent immigrants (from Sweden), the people of Uri representing the original \"Goths and Huns\", and the people of Unterwalden representing \"the Romans\".\n\nHenrich von Gundelfingen gives an elaborate version of the legend, stating the emigration from Sweden and Frisia was due to a famine, which was met by king \"Cisbertus of Sweden\" by a decree that every month, the lot should be drawn and one in ten men would be forced to emigrate with all his family and possessions. Heinrich is the origin of the figures of 6,000 Swedes and 1,200 Frisians taking part in the migration with a certain \"Suicerus\" as their leader.\n\nThe legend is also mentioned by Albrecht von Bonstetten, a monk in Einsiedeln abbey, in 1479 (\"Superius Germanie Confederationis descriptio\"). In this version, the toponym \"Schwyz\" derives from a Swedish founder named \"Switerus\".\n\nSigismund Meisterlin (d. 1488) in his \"Chronicon Norimbergense\" claims the people of Schwyz as descendants of the Huns, with a leader called \"Swifter\" ruling the valley, while his brother \"Senner\" ruled the high pastures.\n\nRecords from the early 16th century confirm that the tradition was in fact part of local folklore (and not the result of learned etymological speculation); in an \"Urner Tellenspiel\" performed between 1511 and 1525, the identification of Gothic and Hunnic ancestry of Uri, Roman ancestry of Unterwalden and Swedish ancestry\nof Schwyz,\nand for the Landsgemeinde of Schwyz in 1531 we have the record of a performance of an \"Andacht der Altvorderen\" (remembrance of the forefathers) in memory of the \"Austreibung aus Schweden\" (eviction from Sweden) in times of famine.\n\nThe saga is also reflected in early-16th-century Frisian chronicles such as the \"Tractatus Alvinus\", Jancko Douwama's \"Boeck der Partijen\" and subsequent writings, as well as in the biography of the condottiere Wilwolt von Schaumberg from Thuringia, who led the conquest of Frisia by Albert of Saxony in 1498. According to the latter, 'the Frisians, when they write to each other, even nowadays, call the Swiss \"son\" and the Swiss call the Frisians \"cousin\".'\n\nThe first critical evaluation of the story is that of Tschudi in 1570, who is unsure if he should reject the account of Kiburger wholesale, or if the tradition might have a historical source in the Cimbri of 114 BC (unlike his 19th-century successors, Tschudi does not consider the possibility of a Viking Age migration).\n\nOnce the legend had been written down in the late 15th century Swiss chronicles it became a standard topos of the early modern historiography of Switzerland. \nThe legend did remain current in the folklore of Schwyz and Hasli in the 19th century, no doubt reinforced by historiographical and literary tradition. \nSchiller's \"William Tell\" (1804) makes reference to the legend (act 2, scene 2), in the voice of \"Stauffacher\". The Brothers Grimm included the legend in their \"Deutsche Sagen\" of 1818 (nr. 514 \"Auswanderung der Schweizer\"), and Ludwig Bechstein in his \"Deutsches Sagenbuch\" (1853) includes it as nr. 2 \" Des Schweizervolkes Ursprung \"). \nIn Sweden, Uppsala historian Jakob Ek published an account of the legend in \"De Colonia Suecorum in Helvetiam egressa\" (1797).\n\nJohannes von Müller in 1780 accepted that the foundational \npopulation of Schwyz was a separate race (i.e. separate from that of Uri and Unterwalden) and argued that this was still visible in the \"exceptionally handsome\" population of Oberhasli and the neighbouring Bernese Oberland as well as of Entlebuch.\nJohann Georg Kohl (1849) also described the physiology of the people of Oberhasli as being of the Scandinavian type, as \"remarkably tall, strong and blond\".\nErik Gustaf Geijer in his \"History of the Swedes\" (1832–36) notes that the legend was now limited to the population of \"Haslidale\" but had once also been generally believed by the people of Schwyz. In this version, the Swedes march from a place called \"Hasle\" on the banks of the Rhine, defeating a Frankish army on the way, and settle in the alpine valleys because the landscape reminded them of their own country.\nGeijer adds his opinion that the events would fall into the \"age of the northern expeditions\" (i.e. the Viking Age) of the 9th century. He cites a Viking Age chronicle which relates that in 861 a Viking expedition ascended the Mosel and wintered in a fortified camp at a place called \"Haslow\", defeated a Frankish army and moved onward pillaging along the Rhine.\nGeijer equates this expedition with one mentioned in \"Óláfs saga Tryggvasonar\", in which the sons of Ragnar Lodbrok participated, advancing as far as \"Wiflisburg\" (Avenches) in Switzerland.\n\nIn 1846, Johann Georg Kohl travelled to Hasli, describing both its natural landscape and its population. Kohl recorded a tradition telling of a march of 6,000 Frisians and Swedes exiled from their homes by a famine. The names of the leaders of the immigrating Swedes is reported as \"Restius\" and \"Hastus\". Kohl describes the architecture of the Meiringen church as reminiscent of North Frisian and Scandinavian types.\nThe Hasli legend was received in Scandinavian Romantic nationalism, with e.g. Danish poet Adam Oehlenschläger publishing a poem \"Haslidalen\" in 1849.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31627", "title": "Tartu", "text": "Tartu\n\nTartu (, South Estonian: \"Tarto\") is the second largest city of Estonia, after Estonia's political and financial capital Tallinn.\n\nTartu is often considered the intellectual centre of the country, especially since it is home to the nation's oldest and most renowned university, the University of Tartu. The city also houses the Supreme Court of Estonia, the Ministry of Education and Research, and the new building of the Estonian National Museum, opened to the public in October 2016.\n\nIt is also the birthplace of Estonian Song Festivals.\n\nSituated southeast of Tallinn and 245 kilometres (152 miles) northeast of Riga, Tartu lies on the Emajõgi (\"Mother river\"), which connects the two largest lakes of Estonia. The city is served by Tartu Airport.\n\nSince 1918, the Estonian name \"Tartu\" has been used, but as the town has come under control of various rulers throughout its history, there have been various names for it in different languages. Most of them derive ultimately from the earliest attested form, the Estonian \"Tarbatu\". In German, Swedish and Polish the town has been known and is sometimes still referred to as , a variant of \"Tarbatu\". In Russian, the city has been known as (\"Yur′yev\", after Yuri, the baptismal name of Grand Prince Yaroslav I the Wise) and as (\"Derpt\", from the Low German variant of \"Dorpat\"). Similarly, the city has been known as \"Tērbata\" in Latvian, while Finnish-speakers use the toponym \"Tartto\".\n\nArchaeological evidence of the first permanent settlement on the site of modern Tartu dates to as early as the 5th century AD. By the 7th century, local inhabitants had built a wooden fortification on the east side of Toome Hill (\"Toomemägi\").\n\nThe first documented record of the area was made in 1030 by chroniclers of Kievan Rus. Yaroslav I the Wise, Prince of Kiev, invaded the region that year, built his own fort there, and named it \"Yuryev\" (literally \"Yury's\" – Yury (a Russified form of \"George\") being Yaroslav's Christian name). Kievan rulers then collected tribute from the surrounding ancient Estonian county of Ugaunia, possibly until 1061, when, according to chronicles, Yuryev was burned down by Estonian tribe called \"Sosols\". Kievan Rus' again controlled Tartu from 1133 for an unknown period, possibly up to 1176/1177. In the 12th century Tartu was the most notable Slavic settlement in Chud territory.\n\nEstonian amateur historian Enn Haabsaar speculates that the \"Yuryev\" mentioned in this context is actually Bila Tserkva, Ukraine, a town that was also founded by Yaroslav I the Wise as Yuriev about the same time, 1032. His views have been criticized by historian Ain Mäesalu.\n\nDuring the period of Northern Crusades in the beginning of the 13th century the fort of \"Tarbatu\" (or \"Tharbata\", Tartu) was captured by the crusading Livonian Knights — also known as the Brothers of the Sword (German: \"Schwertbrüder\") — and recaptured by Estonians on several occasions. In 1224, after Ugaunia had recognized the supremacy of Novgorod and Pskov princes who sent additional troops led by prince Vyachko of Kukenois to the fort, it was besieged and conquered for one last time by the German crusaders. Subsequently, known as Dorpat (Latin: \"Tarbatum\"), Tartu became a commercial centre of considerable importance during the later Middle Ages and the capital of the semi-independent Bishopric of Dorpat.\n\nIn 1262 the army of Prince Dmitri of Pereslavl, son of Alexander Nevsky launched an assault on Dorpat, capturing and destroying the town. His troops did not manage to capture the bishop's fortress on Toome Hill. The event was recorded both in German and Old East Slavic chronicles, which also provided the first record of a settlement of German merchants and artisans which had arisen alongside the bishop's fortress.\n\nIn medieval times, after the Livonian Order was subsumed into the Teutonic Knights in 1236, the town became an important trading city. In the 1280s Dorpat joined the Hanseatic League. As in all of Estonia and Latvia, the largely German-speaking nobility, but in Tartu/Dorpat (as in Tallinn) even more so, the Baltic German bourgeoisie, the \"literati\", dominated culture, religion, architecture, education, and politics until the late 19th century. For example, the town hall of Dorpat was designed by an architect from Rostock in Mecklenburg, while the university buildings were designed by Johann Wilhelm Krause, another German. Many, if not most, of the students, and more than 90 percent of the faculty members were of German descent, and numerous statues of notable scholars with German names can still be found in Tartu today. Most Germans left during the first half of the 20th century, in particular as part of the \"Heim ins Reich\" program of the Nazis, following the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact in 1939.\n\nIn 1558, tsar Ivan the Terrible invaded Tartu beginning the Livonian War. Forces under the command of Pyotr Shuiski encircled the town and began heavy bombardment. In light of this and without any prospect of external help the town surrendered. The local bishop was imprisoned in Moscow, which effectively ended the period of local self-government. In the effect of the Truce of Jam Zapolski of 1582 the city along with southern regions of Livonian Confederation became part of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. In 1598 it became the capital of the Dorpat Voivodeship of the Duchy of Livonia. A Jesuit grammar school \"Gymnasium Dorpatense\" was established in 1583. In addition, a translators' seminary was organized in Tartu and the city received its red and white flag from the Polish king Stephen Báthory.\n\nThe activities of both the grammar school and the seminary were stopped by the Polish–Swedish War. Already in late 1600 the forces of Charles IX of Sweden besieged the city defended by three banners of reiters and the city's burghers. Despite repeated assaults, the Swedes could not enter the city. Finally in 1601 Capt. Hermann Wrangel switched sides, assaulted the castellan and opened the gates for the Swedish forces. The town was retaken by Poland on 13 April 1603 following a brief siege led by hetman Jan Karol Chodkiewicz; roughly 1000 Swedish soldiers surrendered and were escorted to Tallinn.\n\nIn the effect of yet another Polish-Swedish War, in 1625 Tartu was once again captured by Sweden, this time for good. In the effect of the 1629 Truce of Altmark the city became part of the Dominions of Sweden, which led to the foundation of the University of Tartu in 1632 by king Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden.\n\nIn 1704 the town was taken by Russian army in the presence of tsar Peter the Great himself. As a result, around a quarter of the town and much of the fortifications were damaged. In 1708 the remainder of the fortifications and houses, including the remains of bishops castle, were blown up, all movable property was looted and all citizens deported to Russia. With the Treaty of Nystad in 1721, the city became part of the Russian Empire and was known as \"Derpt\". Fires in the 18th century destroyed much of the medieval architecture, the Great Fire of Tartu in 1775 removed most of the buildings in the centre. The city was rebuilt along Late Baroque and Neoclassical lines including the Tartu Town Hall which was built between 1782 and 1789.\n\nDuring the second half of the 19th century, Tartu was the cultural centre for Estonians in the era of Romantic nationalism. The city hosted Estonia's first song festival in 1869. \"Vanemuine\", the first national theatre, was established in 1870. Tartu was also the setting for the foundation of the Society of Estonian Writers in 1872.\n\nTartu railway station was opened in 1876 when Tapa–Tartu route was built. The station building was opened in 1877.\n\nIn 1893, the city was officially retitled to the ancient Russian name \"Yuryev\". The university was subsequently russified from 1895 on with the introduction of compulsory Russian in teaching. Much of the university property was relocated to Voronezh in 1918 and during the German occupation the University worked under the name Landesuniversität Dorpat. During the Estonian War of Independence university of Tartu was re-opened as an Estonian language university on 1 December 1919.\n\nWith Estonian independence after World War I, the city officially became known by the Estonian name \"Tartu\". At the end of Estonian War of Independence following World War I, a peace treaty between the Bolsheviks and Estonia was signed on 2 February 1920 in Tartu (Treaty of Tartu). The treaty meant that Soviet Russia renounced territorial claims to Estonia \"for all time\". However, as a result of the Nazi-Soviet Pact of 1939, the Soviet Union occupied Estonia and Tartu in 1940.\n\nPeace treaty between Soviet Russia and Finland was also signed in Tartu in 1920.\n\nDuring the interwar period Tähtvere neighbourhood was built, former Raadi Manor buildings started to house Estonian National Museum (destroyed during Tartu Offensive in 1944) and art school Pallas was opened.\n\nDuring World War II, a large part of the city as well as the historical \"Kivisild\" (Stone Bridge) (built by Catherine II of Russia in 1776–1778) over the Emajõgi river were destroyed by the retreating Soviet Army, partly in 1941 and almost completely in 1944 by then retreating German Army. Already heavily damaged Tartu was bombed by Soviet forces on 27 January 1943, 26 February 1944, 7–8 March 1944, and 25–26 March 1944. After the war ended, much of the historical downtown area was left in ruins. Even the less damaged buildings in entire city blocks were torn down by the order of the occupational authorities and large swaths of land turned into public parks.\n\nAfter the war, Tartu was declared a \"closed town\" to foreigners, as an air base for bombers was constructed on Raadi Airfield, in the northeast outskirts of the city. It was one of the biggest military air bases in Eastern Europe and housed intercontinental fighters, that carried nuclear bombs. The location itself was where the Estonian 2nd Air Division was situated prior to the Soviet occupation. The asphalt runway there now houses a large used cars market, and is sometimes used for automotive racing.\n\nTartu Airport was opened in south of city in 1946. Besides the airport Estonian Aviation Academy was established in 1993 and Estonian Aviation Museum was opened to the public in 2002.\nDuring Soviet times the population of Tartu almost doubled from 57,000 to 100,000, partly due to mass immigration from other areas of the Soviet Union.\n\nSince Estonia regained its independence in 1991, the old town centre is being renovated. Notably, St. John's Church, in ruins since World War II, has been restored.\n\nMany new commercial and business buildings have been erected (Tartu Shopping Center, Tasku, Emajõe Commercial Center, Lõunakeskus, Kvartal etc.). Highest residential building and local landmark Tigutorn was opened in 2008.\n\nScience center AHHAA relocated to a new building in 2011 and Estonian National Museum, the new main building was opened in 2016.\n\nTartu lies within the temperate humid continental climate zone. The climate is rather mild considering the high latitude, largely due to the proximity of the Baltic Sea and warm airflows from the Atlantic. Nevertheless, continental influence can be felt on hot summer days and cold spells in winter, when temperature can occasionally (but rarely) drop below . Generally, summers are cool to warm and winters are cold.\n\nThere are 49 members on the town council, elected by residents every four years using a proportional system of representation.\n\nThe executive branch of the town government consists of a mayor and five deputy mayors. The current mayor is Urmas Klaas. Andrus Ansip, Prime Minister of Estonia from 2005 to 2014, was mayor of Tartu from 1998 to 2004. The position was later served by other politicians who eventually became ministers of government, Laine Jänes and Urmas Kruuse. All of them are members of the Estonian Reform Party, which has dominated in Tartu since 1998.\n\nMostly known as a university town, Tartu is also a site of heavy industry. The food industry has traditionally been important for the town's economy and some bigger companies in the field include A. Le Coq, Tartu Mill and Salvest. Kroonpress is the leading printing press company the Baltic States.\n\nIn the beginning of the 21st century, many ICT enterprises and other high-tech companies have taken a foothold in Tartu. Notable examples include Playtech Estonia, Nortal (formerly Webmedia Group), ZeroTurnaround, Tarkon, Reach-U and Raintree Estonia. Skype has an office in Tartu. The university is one of the largest employers, which explains the large proportion of highly skilled professionals – researchers, professors, doctors, and Tartu University Clinic has been considered the largest employer of Tartu.\n\nTartu's historic population is presented in the following table, based on data from official censuses since 1881 and Estonian Statistical Office. Note that the data up to 2011 is not directly comparable to the most recent numbers, as the methodology of compiling population statistics has changed.\n\nTartu is officially divided into 17 neighbourhoods, which carry no administrative purposes. Their names and borders are defined.\n\nThe city is best known for being home to the University of Tartu, founded under King Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden in 1632. Mainly for this reason, Tartu is also – tongue-in-cheek – known as \"Athens of the Emajõgi\" or as \"Heidelberg of the North\".\n\nTartu is also the seat of the Estonian University of Life Sciences, the Baltic Defence College, Estonian Aviation Academy (formerly known as Tartu Aviation College), and the Estonian Ministry of Education and Research. Other notable institutions include the Supreme Court of Estonia (re-established in Tartu in autumn 1993), the Estonian Historical Archives, Estonian National Museum, Estonian Sports Museum as well as the oldest and renowned theatre in the country, Vanemuine, where they have a well-respected ballet company as well as theatre, opera and musical productions.\n\nIn music, there exists the Tartu school of composition.\n\nMost of the sculptures in Tartu are dedicated to historical figures. Among them the most famous are the Barclay de Tolly monument on the Barclay Square in downtown, the Kissing students monument on the town hall square and Gustav II Adolf´s monument on the Kuningaplats.\n\nTartu has been an intellectual centre of both Estonia and Baltic countries for several centuries. Scholars hailing from Tartu include the pioneer of embryology Karl Ernst von Baer, a pioneer of animal behaviour studies Jakob von Uexküll, and a cultural theorist and semiotician Juri Lotman. Nobel Chemistry Prize laureate Wilhelm Ostwald studied and worked in Tartu. Tartu School is one of the leading scientific schools in the field of semiotics.\n\nThe architecture and city planning of historical Tartu mainly go back to the pre-independence period, with Germans forming the upper and middle classes of society, and therefore contributing many architects, professors and local politicians.\n\nMost notable are the old Lutheran St. John's Church (, ), the 18th-century town hall, the university building, ruins of the 13th-century cathedral, the botanical gardens, the main shopping street, many buildings around the town hall square and Barclay Square.\n\nThe historical slum area called Supilinn (\"Soup Town\") is located on the bank of river Emajõgi, near the town centre and is regarded as one of the few surviving \"poor\" neighbourhoods of 19th-century Europe. At the moment Supilinn is being rapidly renovated, undergoing a slow transformation from the historic slum into a prestigious high-class neighborhood. The active community embodied by the Supilinn Society is committed to preserving the heritage.\n\nThe Second World War destroyed large parts of the city centre and during the Soviet occupation many new buildings were erected – notably the new Vanemuine Theater. The effects of the war are still witnessed by the relative abundance of parks and greenery in the historic centre. Typical Soviet-style neighbourhoods of blocks of high-rise flats were built between World War II and the restoration of Estonian independence in 1991, the largest such district being Annelinn.\n\nPresently, Tartu is also known for several modern buildings of the \"steel, concrete and glass\" variation, but has managed to retain a mix of old and new buildings in the centre of town. Notable examples include the Tigutorn Tower and the Emajõe Centre, both built during the current period of independence; Tartu's tallest and second tallest towers, respectively. Tartu's large student population means that it has a comparatively thriving nightlife, with many nightclubs, bars, and restaurants, including the world's highest-ceiling pub, in the historic Gunpowder Cellar of Tartu.\n\nAnnually, in the summer, Tartu hosts the Hanseatic Days festival () to celebrate its Hanseatic heritage. The festival includes events such as handicraft markets, historic workshops and jousting tournaments.\n\nTartu is the home for basketball club Tartu Ülikool/Rock, which is participating in the Korvpalli Meistriliiga, the Baltic Basketball League and the EuroChallenge.\n\nFootball club JK Tammeka Tartu, one of the Meistriliiga clubs, is located in Tartu. Their home stadium is the Tamme Staadion, which has a capacity of 1 600 people. The city is also home to the Tartu JK Welco and FC Santos Tartu clubs, which play in the Esiliiga, the second division.\n\nThere is a professional handball team, the Tartu Ülikool/Glassdrive, which plays in the second division of Estonian handball.\n\nTartu is the hometown of the BIGBANK Tartu volleyball club.\nTartu is also the hometown of Clement \"Puppey\" Ivanov, captain of Team Secret, a professional Dota 2 team. He won the first International, and was runner-up two years in a row with Natus Vincere.\n\nThe 2017 World Orienteering Championships were held in Tartu.\n\nThe annual running event Tartu Sügisjooks takes place in Tartu.\n\n\nTartu is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9394439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9394439", "title": "The Gettysburg Review", "text": "The Gettysburg Review\n\nThe Gettysburg Review is a quarterly literary magazine featuring short stories, poetry, essays and reviews. Work appearing in the magazine often is reprinted in \"best-of\" anthologies and receives awards. \n\nThe little magazine \"is recognized as one of the country’s premier journals,\" according to a description at the Web site of the New York Public Library. The 2007 \"U.S. News\" guide to the best colleges described the review as \"recognized as one of the country's best literary journals.\" According to a Web page of the English Department of the University of Wisconsin Colleges, the Gettysburg Review is considered a \"major literary journal in the U.S.\"\n\nFounded in 1988, the magazine is published by Gettysburg College in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. Its quarterly issues come out in January, April, July, and October. \n\nThe magazine does not print material which has been published elsewhere. Along with fresh and new short stories, it is open to publishing original poetry, whether short or long, and excerpts from novels. The magazine will occasionally serialize longer fictional works over more than one issue. \"Essays can be on virtually any subject, so long as it is treated in a literary fashion — gracefully and in depth,\" according to the magazine's Web site.\n\n\"The Gettysburg Review\" is one of the most frequent sources of material for \"The Best American Essays\", \"The Best American Poetry\", and \"The Best American Short Stories\" series. Other anthologies that have reprinted work originally published in the magazine: \"The Pushcart Prize: Best of the Small Presses\", \"The Best Creative Nonfiction\", \"The Best American Mystery Stories\", \"Best New American Voices\", \"Best New Poets\", \"New Stories from the South\", and \"Prize Stories: The O. Henry Awards\". Other work has been reprinted in publications such as \"Harpers\" and the \"UTNE Reader.\"\n\nProminent writers who have appeared in the magazine's pages include E. L. Doctorow, Rita Dove, Joyce Carol Oates, Jeffrey Eugenides, Linda Pastan, James Tate, and Donald Hall. Recent writers published in the journal include Gary Fincke, Robert Gibb and Jacob M. Appel.\n\nThe periodical has won awards including the Best New Journal award, four Best Journal Design awards from the Council of Editors of Learned Journals, and a PEN/Nora Magid Award for Excellence in Editing.\n\nIn a 1994 review of the magazine, Ron Tanner wrote that the stories in the 1993 issues were widely varied in style, but \"are clearly in the mainstream of contemporary American fiction — you will not find 'experimental' work in \"The Gettysburg Review\".\" \n\nHe also found the stories have a common \"concern for character, and an examination of the emotional and psychological distance one might travel when faced with a problem. [...] each compels the character to make a decision, to make an effort, to make a move. Consequently, things happen in these stories. Which is to say that we end in a place very different from the story's beginning. In no resolution of a \"Gettysburg\" story, however, do we find ourselves living Happily Ever After. Life is more complicated than that, these writers assert.\" \n\nThe quarterly gets about 6,000 submissions per year and does not solicit work except for occasional reviews. \"[W]e work hard not to have a regular stable of writers or favored persons of any kind,\" according to founding editor Peter Stitt. \"We are most proud of publishing writers who have never before appeared in a nationally-circulated journal. But we do not actively search through the slush pile for anything but good writing.\"\n\nThe magazine is supported financially by Gettysburg College, for the most part, although it also receives grants from the Pennsylvania Council on the Arts and the NEA, along with some revenue from subscriptions.\n\n\nThe magazine's masthead, as of December 2014:\n\n\nAdvisory and Contributing Editors: \n\n\nAdvisory Board:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4380441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4380441", "title": "The Language Conservancy", "text": "The Language Conservancy\n\n The Language Conservancy is currently focused largely on indigenous languages in the United States, where only a dozen or so of the original 400-500 have a chance of surviving beyond the next thirty years. Government aid to this problem is limited and the few grant-providing foundations are over-burdened.\n\nThe following Best Practices standards were developed in 2004 by a consortium of Lakota Tribal leaders and academic linguistic science and education professionals, to bring about the revitalization of the Lakota language. The result is a comprehensive system for language revitalization, comprising five major parts that are clearly defined, measurable, and interdependent. This consortium is now the Board and staff of the Language Conservancy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10618958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10618958", "title": "The Scousers", "text": "The Scousers\n\nThe Scousers was a regular series of sketches from the Harry Enfield's Television Programme BBC comedy show of the early 1990s.\n\nIt featured a set of stereotyped Liverpudlian characters or Scousers, \"Ga'\", \"Ba'\" and \"Te'\" (Gary, Barry and Terry) played by Gary Bleasdale, Harry Enfield, Joe McGann, and Mark Moraghan. The original inspiration for the Scousers sketches were Barry Grant and Terry Sullivan, two characters from the Channel 4, soap opera \"Brookside\", set in Liverpool. Bleasdale, McGann and Moraghan actually are scousers, being from Liverpool originally.\n\nThe Scousers were usually depicted with Kevin Keegan bubble perm hairstyles and bushy moustaches, wearing shell suits, and speaking in exaggerated Scouse accents. Common catch phrases they came up included \"Eh? Eh? Eh?\" \"Dey do do dat dough don't dey dough\" (\"They do do that though, don't they though\").\n\nWhenever a potential problem or dispute arose, this would result in The Scousers repeating to each other their most famous catch phrase:\n\n\" Eh! Eh! Alright! Alright! Calm down! Calm down!\"\n\nThis catch phrase was Bleasdale's input as he changed the scripted original, which was \"Break it up 'ey, come on, break it up\", during the first rehearsal. McGann brought \"Dey do dough, don't dey dough\" to the sketches. The characters had allegiances to the city's football teams with \"Ga'\" being an Everton fan while \"Ba'\" & \"Te'\" were Liverpool fans. This leads to even more disagreement.\n\nThe actors Paul Usher and Brian Regan who played Brookside characters \"Barry\" and \"Terry\" also appeared in a \"The Scousers\" sketch\" \"Terry Gets Married\"\". One of The Scousers re-emerged in several years later on Enfield's sketch show \"Harry and Paul\".\n\n"}
{"id": "225873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225873", "title": "Vienna Circle", "text": "Vienna Circle\n\nThe Vienna Circle () of Logical Empiricism was a group of philosophers and scientists drawn from the natural and social sciences, logic and mathematics who met regularly from 1924 to 1936 at the University of Vienna, chaired by Moritz Schlick.\n\nAmong the members of the inner circle were Moritz Schlick, Hans Hahn, Philipp Frank, Otto Neurath, Rudolf Carnap, Herbert Feigl, Richard von Mises, Karl Menger, Kurt Gödel, Friedrich Waismann, Felix Kaufmann, Viktor Kraft and Edgar Zilsel. In addition, the Vienna Circle was occasionally visited by Alfred Tarski, Hans Reichenbach, Carl Gustav Hempel, Willard Van Orman Quine, Ernest Nagel, Alfred Jules Ayer, Oskar Morgenstern and Frank P. Ramsey. Ludwig Wittgenstein and Karl Popper were in close contact to the Vienna Circle, but never participated in the meetings of the Schlick Circle.\n\nThe philosophical position of the Vienna Circle was called logical empiricism (German: \"logischer Empirismus\"), logical positivism or neopositivism. It was influenced by Ernst Mach, David Hilbert, French conventionalism (Henri Poincaré and Pierre Duhem), Gottlob Frege, Bertrand Russell, Ludwig Wittgenstein and Albert Einstein. The Vienna Circle was pluralistic and committed to the ideals of the Enlightenment. It was unified by the aim of making philosophy scientific with the help of modern logic. Main topics were foundational debates in the natural and social sciences, logic and mathematics; the modernization of empiricism by modern logic; the search for an empiricist criterion of meaning; the critique of metaphysics and the unification of the sciences in the unity of science.\n\nThe Vienna Circle appeared in public with the publication of various book series – \"Schriften zur wissenschaftlichen Weltauffassung\" (\"Monographs on the Scientific World-Conception\"), \"Einheitswissenschaft\" (\"Unified Science\") and the journal \"Erkenntnis\" – and the organization of international conferences in Prague; Königsberg (today known as Kaliningrad); Paris; Copenhagen; Cambridge, UK, and Cambridge, Massachusetts. Its public profile was provided by the \"Ernst Mach Society\" (German: \"Verein Ernst Mach\") through which members of the Vienna Circle sought to popularize their ideas in the context of programmes for national education in Vienna.\n\nDuring the era of Austrofascism and after the annexation of Austria by Nazi Germany most members of the Vienna Circle were forced to emigrate. The murder of Schlick in 1936 by a former student put an end to the Vienna Circle in Austria.\n\nThe Vienna Circle's influence on 20th-century philosophy, especially philosophy of science and analytic philosophy, is immense up to the present day.\n\nThe history and development of the Vienna Circle shows various stages:\n\nThe pre-history of the Vienna Circle began with meetings on the philosophy of science and epistemology from 1908 on, promoted by Philipp Frank, Hans Hahn and Otto Neurath.\n\nHans Hahn, the oldest of the three (1879–1934), was a mathematician. He received his degree in mathematics in 1902. Afterwards he studied under the direction of Ludwig Boltzmann in Vienna and David Hilbert, Felix Klein and Hermann Minkowski in Göttingen. In 1905 he received the Habilitation in mathematics. He taught at Innsbruck (1905–1906) and Vienna (from 1909).\n\nOtto Neurath (1882–1945) studied mathematics, political economy, and history in Vienna and Berlin. From 1907 to 1914 he taught in Vienna at the Neue Wiener Handelsakademie (Viennese Commercial Academy). Neurath married Olga, Hahn's sister, in 1911.\n\nPhilipp Frank, the youngest of the group (1884–1966), studied physics at Göttingen and Vienna with Ludwig Boltzmann, David Hilbert and Felix Klein. From 1912, he held the chair of theoretical physics in the German University in Prague.\n\nTheir meetings were held in Viennese coffeehouses from 1907 onward. Frank remembered:\n\nA number of further authors were discussed in the meetings such as Brentano, Meinong, Helmholtz, Hertz, Husserl, Freud, Russell, Whitehead, Lenin and Frege.\n\nPresumably the meetings stopped in 1912, when Frank went to Prague, to hold the chair of theoretical physics left vacant by Albert Einstein. Hahn left Vienna during World War I and returned in 1921.\n\nThe formation of the Vienna Circle began with Hahn returning to Vienna in 1921. Together with the mathematician Kurt Reidemeister he organized seminars on Ludwig Wittgenstein's \"Tractatus logico-philosophicus\" and on Whitehead and Russell's \"Principia Mathematica\".\n\nWith the support of Hahn, Moritz Schlick was appointed to the chair of philosophy of the inductive sciences at the University of Vienna in 1922 – the chair formerly held by Ernst Mach and partly by Boltzmann. Schlick had already published two important works \"Raum und Zeit in die gegenwärtigen Physik\" (\"Space and Time in contemporary Physics\") in 1917 and \"Allgemeine Erkenntnislehre\" (\"General Theory of Knowledge\") in 1918.\n\nImmediately after Schlick's arrival in Vienna, he organized discussions with the mathematicians around Hahn. In 1924 Schlick's students Friedrich Waismann and Herbert Feigl suggested to their teacher a sort of regular \"evening circle\". From winter term 1924 on regular meetings were held at the Institute of Mathematics in Vienna's Boltzmanngasse 5 on personal invitation by Schlick. These discussions can be seen as the beginning of the Vienna Circle.\n\nThe group that met from 1924 on was quite diverse and included not only recognized scientists such as Schlick, Hahn, Kraft, Philipp Frank, Neurath, Olga Hahn-Neurath, and Heinrich Gomperz, but also younger students and doctoral candidates. In addition, the group invited foreign visitors.\nIn 1926 Schlick and Hahn arranged to bring Rudolf Carnap to the University of Vienna as a \"Privatdozent\" (private lecturer). Carnap's \"Logical Structure of the World\" was intensely discussed in the Circle.\n\nAlso Wittgenstein's \"Tractatus logico-philosophicus\" was read out loud and discussed. From 1927 on personal meetings were arranged between Wittgenstein and Schlick, Waismann, Carnap and Feigl.\n\nIn 1928 the \"Verein Ernst Mach\" (\"Ernst Mach Society\") was founded, with Schlick as its chairman. The aim of the society was the spreading of a \"scientific world conception\" through public lectures that were in large part held by members of the Vienna Circle.\n\nIn 1929 the Vienna Circle made its first public appearance under this name – invented by Neurath – with the publication of its manifesto \"Wissenschaftliche Weltauffassung. Der Wiener Kreis\" (\"The Scientific Conception of the World. The Vienna Circle\" also known as \"Viewing the World Scientifically: The Vienna Circle\") The pamphlet is dedicated to Schlick, and its preface was signed by Hahn, Neurath and Carnap.\n\nThe manifesto was presented at the \"Tagung für Erkenntnislehre der exakten Wissenschaften\" (\"Conference on the Epistemology of the Exact Sciences\") in autumn 1929, organized by the Vienna Circle together with the Berlin Circle. This conference was the first international appearance of logical empiricism and the first of a number of conferences: Königsberg (1930), Prague (1934), Paris (1935), Copenhague (1936), Cambridge, UK (1938), Cambridge, Mass. (1939), and Chicago (1941).\n\nWhile primarily known for its views on the natural sciences and metaphysics, the public phase of the Vienna Circle was explicitly political. Neurath and Schlick were both socialists and believed the rejection of magic was a necessary component for liberation of the working classes. The manifesto linked Karl Marx and Friedrich Nietzsche to their political and anti-metaphysical views, indicating a blur between what are now considered two separate schools of contemporary philosophy - analytic philosophy and continental philosophy.\n\nIn 1930 the Vienna Circle and the Berlin Society took over the journal \"Annalen der Philosophie\" and made it the main journal of logical empiricism under the title \"Erkenntnis\", edited by Carnap and Reichenbach. In addition, the Vienna Circle published a number of book series: \"Schriften zur wissenschaftlichen Weltauffassung\" (\"Monographs on the Scientific World-Conception\", ed. by Schlick und Frank, 1928–1937), \"Einheitswissenschaft\" (\"Unified Science\", edited by Neurath, 1933–1939), and later the \"International Encyclopedia of Unified Science\" (edited by Neurath, Carnap and Charles W. Morris, 1938–1970).\n\nSince the beginning of the 1930s first signs of disintegration appeared for political and racist reasons: Herbert Feigl left Austria in 1930. Carnap was appointed to a chair at Prague University in 1931 and left for Chicago in 1935.\n\n1934 marks an important break: Hahn died after surgery, Neurath fled to Holland because of the victory of Austrofascism in the Austrian Civil War following which the \"Ernst Mach Society\" was dissolved for political reasons by the Schuschnigg regime.\n\nThe murder of Moritz Schlick by the former student Hans Nelböck for political and personal reasons in 1936 set an end to the meetings of the Schlick Circle.\n\nSome members of the circle such as Kraft, Waismann, Zilsel, Menger and Gomperz continued to meet occasionally. But the annexation of Austria to Nazi Germany in 1938 meant the definite end of the activities of the Vienna Circle in Austria.\n\nWith the emigration went along the internationalization of logical empiricism. Many former members of the Vienna Circle and the Berlin Circle emigrated to the English-speaking world where they had an immense influence on the development of philosophy of science. The unity of science movement for the construction of an \"International Encyclopedia of Unified Science\", promoted mainly by Neurath, Carnap, and Morris, is symptomatic of the internationalization of logical empiricism, organizing numerous international conferences and the publication of the \"International Encyclopedia of Unified Science\".\n\nApart from the central figures of the Schlick Circle the question of membership in the Vienna Circle is in many cases unsettled. The partition into \"members\" and \"those sympathetic to the Vienna Circle\" produced in the manifesto from 1929 is representative only of a specific moment in the development of the Circle. Depending on the criteria used (regular attendance, philosophical affinities etc.) there are different possible distributions in \"inner circle\" and \"periphery\".\n\nIn the following list (in alphabetical order), the \"inner circle\" is defined using the criterion of regular attendance. The \"periphery\" comprises occasional visitors, foreign visitors and leading intellectual figures who stood in regular contact with the Circle (such as Wittgenstein and Popper).\n\nInner Circle: Gustav Bergmann, Rudolf Carnap, Herbert Feigl, Philipp Frank, Kurt Gödel, Hans Hahn, Olga Hahn-Neurath, Béla Juhos, Felix Kaufmann, Victor Kraft, Karl Menger, Richard von Mises, Otto Neurath, Rose Rand, Josef Schächter, Moritz Schlick, Friedrich Waismann, Edgar Zilsel.\n\nPeriphery: Alfred Jules Ayer, Egon Brunswik, Karl Bühler, Josef Frank, Else Frenkel-Brunswik, Heinrich Gomperz, Carl Gustav Hempel, Eino Kaila, Hans Kelsen, Charles W. Morris, Arne Naess, Karl Raimund Popper, Willard Van Orman Quine, Frank P. Ramsey, Hans Reichenbach, Kurt Reidemeister, Alfred Tarski, Olga Taussky-Todd, Ludwig Wittgenstein.\n\nThe spread of logical positivism in the United States occurred throughout the 1920s and 1930s. In 1929 and in 1932, Schlick was a Visiting Professor at Stanford, while Feigl, who immigrated to the United States in 1930, became lecturer (1931) and professor (1933) at the University of Iowa. The definite diffusion of logical positivism in the United States was due to Carl Hempel, Hans Reichenbach, Rudolf Carnap, Philipp Frank, and Herbert Feigl, who emigrated and taught in the United States.\n\nAnother link to the United States is Willard Van Orman Quine, who traveled in 1932 and 1933 as a Sheldon Traveling Fellow to Vienna, Prague, and Warsaw. Moreover, American semiotician and philosopher Charles W. Morris helped many German and Austrian philosophers emigrate to the United States, including Rudolf Carnap, in 1936.\n\nIn the United Kingdom it was Alfred Jules Ayer who acquainted the British academia with the work of the Vienna Circle with his book \"Language, Truth, and Logic\" (1936). Karl Popper was also important for the reception and critique of their work, even though he never participated in the meetings of the Vienna Circle.\n\nThe Vienna Circle cannot be assigned \"one\" single philosophy. First, there existed a plurality of philosophical positions within the Circle, and second, members often changed their views fundamentally in the course of time and in reaction to discussions in the Circle. It thus seems more convenient to speak of \"the philosophies (in the plural) of the Vienna Circle\".\n\nHowever, some central topics and debates can be identified.\n\nThis states the scientific world-conception of the Vienna Circle, which is characterized \"essentially by two features. First it is empiricist and positivist: there is knowledge only from experience. Second, the scientific world-conception is marked by the application of a certain method, namely logical analysis.\"\n\nLogical analysis is the method of clarification of philosophical problems; it makes an extensive use of symbolic logic and distinguishes the Vienna Circle empiricism from earlier versions. The task of philosophy lies in the clarification—through the method of logical analysis—of problems and assertions.\n\nLogical analysis shows that there are two different kinds of statements; one kind includes statements reducible to simpler statements about the empirically given; the other kind includes statements which cannot be reduced to statements about experience and thus they are devoid of meaning. Metaphysical statements belong to this second kind and therefore they are meaningless. Hence many philosophical problems are rejected as pseudo-problems which arise from logical mistakes, while others are re-interpreted as empirical statements and thus become the subject of scientific inquiries.\n\nOne source of the logical mistakes that are at the origins of metaphysics is the ambiguity of natural language. \"Ordinary language for instance uses the same part of speech, the substantive, for things ('apple') as well as for qualities ('hardness'), relations ('friendship'), and processes ('sleep'); therefore it misleads one into a thing-like conception of functional concepts\". Another source of mistakes is \"the notion that \"thinking\" can either lead to knowledge out of its own resources without using any empirical material, or at least arrive at new contents by an inference from given states of affair\". Synthetic knowledge a priori is rejected by the Vienna Circle. Mathematics, which at a first sight seems an example of necessarily valid synthetic knowledge derived from pure reason alone, has instead a tautological character, that is its statements are analytical statements, thus very different from Kantian synthetic statements. The only two kinds of statements accepted by the Vienna Circle are synthetic statements \"a posteriori\" (i.e., scientific statements) and analytic statements \"a priori\" (i.e., logical and mathematical statements).\n\nHowever, the persistence of metaphysics is connected not only with logical mistakes but also with \"social and economical struggles\". Metaphysics and theology are allied to traditional social forms, while the group of people who \"faces modern times, rejects these views and takes its stand on the ground of empirical sciences\". Thus the struggle between metaphysics and scientific world-conception is not only a struggle between different kinds of philosophies, but it is also—and perhaps primarily—a struggle between different political, social, and economical attitudes. Of course, as the manifesto itself acknowledged, \"not every adherent of the scientific world-conception will be a fighter\". Many historians of the Vienna Circle see in the latter sentence an implicit reference to a contrast between the so-called 'left wing' of the Vienna Circle, mainly represented by Neurath and Carnap, and Moritz Schlick. The aim of the left wing was to facilitate the penetration of the scientific world-conception in \"the forms of personal and public life, in education, upbringing, architecture, and the shaping of economic and social life\". In contrast, Schlick was primarily interested in the theoretical study of science and philosophy. Perhaps the sentence \"Some, glad of solitude, will lead a withdrawn existence on the icy slopes of logic\" is an ironic reference to Schlick.\n\nThe manifesto lists Walter Dubislav, Josef Frank, Kurt Grelling, Hasso Härlen, Eino Kaila, Heinrich Loewy, F. P. Ramsey, Hans Reichenbach, Kurt Reidemeister, and Edgar Zilsel as people \"sympathetic to the Vienna Circle\" and Albert Einstein, Bertrand Russell, and Ludwig Wittgenstein as its \"leading representatives\".\n\nThe final goal pursued by the Vienna Circle was unified science, that is the construction of a \"constitutive system\" in which every legitimate statement is reduced to the concepts of lower level which refer directly to the given experience. \"The endeavour is to link and harmonise the achievements of individual investigators in their various fields of science\". From this aim follows the search for clarity, neatness, and for a symbolic language that eliminates the problems arising from the ambiguity of natural language. The Vienna Circle published a collection, called \"Einheitswissenschaft\" (\"Unified Science\"), edited by Rudolf Carnap, Philipp Frank, Hans Hahn, Otto Neurath, Joergen Joergensen (after Hahn's death) and Charles W. Morris (from 1938), whose aim was to present a unified vision of science. After the publication in Europe of seven monographs from 1933 to 1939, the collection was dismissed, because of the problems arising from the World War II. In 1938 a new series of publications started in the United States. It was the \"International Encyclopedia of Unified Science\", an ambitious project never completed devoted to unified science. Only the first section \"Foundations of the Unity of Sciences\" was published; it contains two volumes for a total of twenty monographs published from 1938 to 1969. As remembered by Rudolf Carnap and Charles Morris in the \"Preface\" to the 1969 edition of the International Encyclopedia of Unified Science:\n\nThomas Kuhn's well known work, \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\", was published in this Encyclopedia in 1962, as the number two in the second volume.\n\nThe attitude of Vienna Circle towards metaphysics is well expressed by Carnap in the article 'Überwindung der Metaphysik durch Logische Analyse der Sprache' in \"Erkenntnis\", vol. 2, 1932 (English translation 'The Elimination of Metaphysics Through Logical Analysis of Language' in Sarkar, Sahotra, ed., \"Logical empiricism at its peak: Schlick, Carnap, and Neurath\", New York : Garland Pub., 1996, pp. 10–31). A language—says Carnap—consists of a vocabulary, i.e., a set of meaningful words, and a syntax, i.e., a set of rules governing the formation of sentences from the words of the vocabulary. Pseudo-statements, i.e., sequences of words that at first sight resemble statements but in reality have no meaning, are formed in two ways: either meaningless words occur in them, or they are formed in an invalid syntactical way. According to Carnap, pseudo-statements of both kinds occur in metaphysics.\n\nA word \"W\" has a meaning if two conditions are satisfied. First, the mode of the occurrence of \"W\" in its elementary sentence form (i.e., the simplest sentence form in which \"W\" is capable of occurring) must be fixed. Secondly, if \"W\" occurs in an elementary sentence \"S\", it is necessary to give an answer to the following questions (that are—according to Carnap—equivalent formulation of the same question):\n(Carnap, \"The Elimination of Metaphysics Through Logical Analysis of Language\" in Sarkar, Sahotra 1996, p. 12)\n\nAn example offered by Carnap concerns the word 'arthropod'. The sentence form \"the thing \"x\" is an arthropod\" is an elementary sentence form that is derivable from \"\"x\" is an animal\", \"\"x\" has a segmented body\" and \"\"x\" has jointed legs\". Conversely, these sentences are derivable from \"the thing \"x\" is an arthropod\". Thus the meaning of the word 'arthropod' is determined.\n\nAccording to Carnap, many words of metaphysics do not fulfill these requirements and thus they are meaningless. As an example, Carnap considers the word 'principle'. This word has a definite meaning, if the sentence \"\"x\" is the principle of \"y\" is supposed to be equivalent to the sentence \"y\" exists by virtue of \"x\" or \"y\" arises out of \"x\". The latter sentence is perfectly clear: \"y\" arises out of \"x\" when \"x\" is invariably followed by \"y\", and the invariable association between \"x\" and \"y\" is empirically verifiable. But—says Carnap—metaphysicians are not satisfied with this interpretation of the meaning of 'principle'. They assert that no empirical relation between \"x\" and \"y\" can completely explain the meaning of \"x\" is the principle of \"y\"\", because there is something that cannot be grasped by means of the experience, something for which no empirical criterion can be specified. It is the lacking of any empirical criterion—says Carnap—that deprives of meaning the word 'principle' when it occurs in metaphysics. Therefore, metaphysical pseudo-statements such as \"water is the principle of the world\" or \"the spirit is the principle of the world\" are void of meaning because a meaningless word occurs in them.\n\nHowever, there are pseudo-statements in which occur only meaningful words; these pseudo-statements are formed in a counter-syntactical way. An example is the word sequence \"Caesar is a prime number\"; every word has a definite meaning, but the sequence has no meaning. The problem is that \"prime number\" is a predicate of numbers, not a predicate of human beings. In the example the nonsense is evident; however, in natural language the rules of grammar do not prohibit the formation of analogous meaningless word sequences that are not so easily detectable. In the grammar of natural languages, every sequence of the kind \"\"x\" is \"y\"\", where \"x\" is a noun and \"y\" is a predicate, is acceptable. In fact, in the grammar there is no distinction between predicate which can be affirmed of human beings and predicate which can be affirmed of numbers. So \"Caesar is a general\" and \"Caesar is a prime number\" are both well-formed, in contrast for example with \"Caesar is and\", which is ill-formed. In a logically constructed language—says Carnap—a distinction between the various kinds of predicate is specified, and pseudo-statements as \"Caesar is a prime number\" are ill-formed. Now, and this is the main point of Carnap's argument, metaphysical statements in which meaningless words do not occur, are indeed meaningless because they are formed in a way which is admissible in natural languages, but not in logically constructed languages. Carnap attempts to indicate the most frequent sources of errors from which metaphysical pseudo-statements can arise. One source of mistakes is the ambiguity of the verb \"to be\", which is sometimes used as a copula (\"I am hungry\"), and sometimes to designate existence (\"I am\"). The latter statement incorrectly suggests a predicative form, and thus it suggests that existence is a predicate. Only modern logic, with the introduction of an explicit sign to designate existence (the sign formula_1), which occurs only in statements such as formula_2, never as a predicate, has shown that existence is not a predicate, and thus has revealed the logical error from which pseudo-statements such as \"cogito, ergo sum\" has arisen.\n\nAnother source of mistakes is type confusions, in which a predicate of a kind is used as a predicate of another kind. For example, the pseudo-statements \"we know the Nothing\" is analogous to \"we know the rain\", but while the latter is well-formed, the former is ill-formed, at least in a logically constructed language, because \"Nothing\" is incorrectly used as a noun. In a formal language, \"Nothing\" only means formula_3, such as \"there is nothing which is outside\"—i.e., formula_4, and thus \"Nothing\" never occurs as a noun or as a predicate.\n\nAccording to Carnap, although metaphysics has no theoretical content, it does have content: metaphysical pseudo-statements express the attitude of a person towards life, and this is the role of metaphysics. He compares it to an art like lyrical poetry; the metaphysician works with the medium of the theoretical; he confuses art with science, attitude towards life with knowledge, and thus produces an unsatisfactory and inadequate work. \"Metaphysicians are musicians without musical ability\".\n\nThe Vienna Circle was very active in advertising their new philosophical ideas. Several congresses on epistemology and philosophy of science were organized, with the help of the Berlin Circle. There were some preparatory congresses: Prague (1929), Königsberg (1930), Prague (1934) and then the first congress on scientific philosophy held in Paris (1935), followed by congresses in Copenhagen (1936), Paris (1937), Cambridge, UK (1938), Cambridge, Massachusetts. (1939). The Königsberg congress (1930) was very important, for Kurt Gödel announced that he had proven the completeness of first-order logic and the incompleteness of formal arithmetic. Another very interesting congress was the one held in Copenhagen (1936), which was dedicated to quantum physics and causality.\n\nBetween 1928 and 1937, the Vienna Circle published ten books in a collection named \"Schriften zur wissenschaftlichen Weltauffassung\" (\"Monographs on the Scientific World-Conception\"), edited by Schlick and Frank. Karl Raimund Popper's book \"Logik der Forschung\" was published in this collection. Seven works were published in another collection, called \"Einheitswissenschaft\" (\"Unified Science\"). In 1930 Rudolf Carnap and Hans Reichenbach undertook the editorship of the journal \"Erkenntnis\", which was published between 1930 and 1940 (from 1939 the editors were Otto Neurath, Rudolf Carnap and Charles Morris).\n\nThe following is the list of works published in the two collections edited by the Vienna Circle.\n\n\"Schriften zur wissenschaftlichen Weltauffassung\" (\"Monographs on the Scientific World-Conception\"), edited by Schlick and Frank:\n\n\"Einheitswissenschaft\" (\"Unified Science\"), edited by Carnap, Frank, Hahn, Neurath, Joergensen (after Hahn's death), Morris (from 1938):\n\nThese works are translated in \"Unified Science: The Vienna Circle Monograph Series Originally Edited by Otto Neurath\", Kluwer, 1987.\n\nMonographs, arranged in chronological order, published in the \"International Encyclopedia of Unified Science\":\n\nIn 1991 the Institute Vienna Circle was established in Vienna. It is dedicated to studying the work and influence of the Vienna Circle. In 2011 it was integrated in the University of Vienna as a subunit of the Faculty of Philosophy and Education. In 2015 the Institute co-organized an exhibition on the Vienna Circle in the main building of the University of Vienna.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34016595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34016595", "title": "Yubetsu technique", "text": "Yubetsu technique\n\nThe is a special technique to make microblades, proposed by Japanese scholar Yoshizaki in 1961, based on his finds in some Upper Palaeolithic sites in Hokkaido, Japan, which date from c. 13,000 bp.\n\nThe name comes from the , on the right bank of which the Palaeolithic sites were discovered. \n\nTo make microblades by this technique, a large biface is made into a core which looks like a tall carinated scraper. Then one lateral edge of the bifacial core is removed, producing at first a triangular spall. After, more edge removals will produce ski spalls of parallel surfaces. \n\nThis technique was also used from Mongolia to Kamchatka Peninsula during the later Pleistocene.\n\n"}
