{"id": "2678636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2678636", "title": "Alcohol exclusion laws", "text": "Alcohol exclusion laws\n\nAlcohol exclusion laws permit insurance companies to deny claims associated with the consumption of alcohol. They were passed in the 1940s in the United States to discourage people from drinking alcoholic beverages and to save insurance companies money from alcohol-related claims. It was believed that people would be less likely to drive while impaired or intoxicated if insurance companies could deny medical payments or other claims associated with any injuries associated with the consumption of alcoholic beverages. Thirty-six states currently allow alcohol exclusions in health care insurance policies via either explicit exclusions or implicit exclusions determines by legal precedence. A growing number of states are overturning their alcohol exclusion laws, currently 14 states plus the District of Columbia prohibit insurance companies from including exclusions for alcohol intoxication.\n\nThere is to date no scientific evidence that alcohol exclusion laws discourage drunk driving. In fact, some argue that these laws discourage physicians and hospitals from testing accident victims for possible alcohol in their blood (BAC). That’s because insurance companies can refuse to pay doctors and hospitals for treating patients found to have alcohol in their bodies. In short, screening for alcohol could lead to the loss of payments from insurance companies. Because of this, there is concern that alcohol exclusion laws help drunken drivers avoid detection and increase the likelihood that they will repeat their crime in the future. Nine states now prohibit alcohol exclusions and several more are currently considering such action.\n\nThe insurance industry supports alcohol exclusion laws. On the other hand, the professional organization which regulates that industry, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, has voted unanimously to recommend the repeal of alcohol exclusionary laws. Other groups supporting their repeal include the National Conference of Insurance Legislators, the American Bar Association, the American College of Emergency Physicians, Mothers Against Drunk Driving, the National Commission Against Drunk Driving, and the American Medical Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24671105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24671105", "title": "Allegheny County Alcoholic Beverage Tax", "text": "Allegheny County Alcoholic Beverage Tax\n\nThe Allegheny County Alcoholic Beverage Tax is a county tax on retail sale of alcoholic beverages within Allegheny County, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe tax, a 10% levy on served alcohol, was passed by the Allegheny County Council and signed into law by Dan Onorato, Allegheny County's Chief Executive on December 4, 2007. On January 1, 2009, the tax rate was reduced to 7%. The tax is collected at the point of sale by restaurants and bars and is collected by Allegheny County Treasurer on a monthly basis. The funds were dedicated to fund the Port Authority of Allegheny County.\n\nThe tax encountered significant resistance and spawned an organized advocacy group called Friends Against Counter-Productive Taxation (FACT). The organization was able to have a referendum placed on the ballot to lower the drink tax, but it was overturned by the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. In 2009, Pittsburgh Mayor Luke Ravenstahl expressed a desire to acquire a portion of this tax for the city's failing pension system, a possibility that Allegheny County officials opposed, citing that the state law authorizing the tax required the money to be directed towards the Port Authority of Allegheny County.\n\n"}
{"id": "28243277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28243277", "title": "Animal Planet Heroes", "text": "Animal Planet Heroes\n\nAnimal Planet Heroes is an \"umbrella rotation\" of reality shows on Animal Planet. These shows focus on various animal cops / animal protection agencies across the United States, with one show set in South Africa.\nThe shows include:\n"}
{"id": "146746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146746", "title": "Arrest warrant", "text": "Arrest warrant\n\nAn arrest warrant is a warrant issued by a judge or magistrate on behalf of the state, which authorizes the arrest and detention of an individual, or the search and seizure of an individual's property.\n\nArrest warrants are issued by a judge or justice of the peace under the Criminal Code.\n\nOnce the warrant has been issued, section 29 of the Code requires that the arresting officer must give notice to the accused of the existence of the warrant, the reason for it, and produce it if requested, if it is feasible to do so.\n\nCzech courts may issue an arrest warrant when it is not achievable to summon or bring in for questioning a charged person and at the same time there is a reason for detention (i.e. concern that the charged person would either flee, interfere with the proceedings or continue criminal activity, see Remand in the Czech Republic).\n\nThe arrest warrant includes:\n\nThe arrest is conducted by the police. Following the arrest, the police must within 24 hours either hand the arrested person over to the nearest court or release the person.\n\nThe court must immediately interview the arrested person, who has the right to have an attorney present, unless the attorney is not within reach. The court has 24 hours from the moment of receiving the person from the police to either order remand or to release him. Reaching the maximum time is always reason for immediate release.\n\nDetaining a person is only allowed under certain conditions defined by the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany (). In article 104 (Deprivation of liberty), the fundamental law determines that\nonly a \"Haftrichter\" (\"arrest judge\") may order confinement that exceeds 48 hours. The former is called \"vorläufige Festnahme\" (\"provisional confinement\"), the latter is named \"Haftbefehl\" (\"order of arrest\"). Arrest warrants serve the enforcement of the proper expiry for instance in the Code of Criminal Procedure, but also in the civil procedure law and in the administrative law and the special administrative procedures after the Tax Code, the Finance Court order or the social court law.\n\nThe procedure for issuing arrest warrants differs in each of the three legal jurisdictions.\n\nIn England & Wales, arrest warrants can be issued for both suspects and witnesses.\n\nArrest warrants for suspects can be issued by a justice of the peace under section 1 of the Magistrates' Courts Act 1980 if information (in writing) is laid before them that a person has committed or is suspected of having committed an offence. Such arrest warrants can only be issued for someone over 18 if at least one of the following is true:\n\nArrest warrants for witnesses can be issued if:\n\nIn Scotland, a \"Warrant to Apprehend\" may be issued if a defendant fails to appear in court.\n\nIn Northern Ireland arrest warrants are usually issued by a magistrate.\n\nFor the police to make a lawful arrest, the arresting officer(s) must have either (1) probable cause to arrest, or (2) a valid arrest warrant.\n\nA valid arrest warrant must be issued by a neutral judge or magistrate, who has determined there is probable cause for an arrest, based upon sworn testimony or an affidavit in support of the petition for a warrant. The arrest warrant must specifically identify the person to be arrested. If a law enforcement affiant provides false information or shows reckless disregard for the truth when providing an affidavit or testimony in support of an arrest warrant, that may constitute grounds to invalidate the warrant.\n\nThese minimum requirements stem from the language contained in the Fourth Amendment. Federal statute and most jurisdictions mandate the issuance of an arrest warrant for the arrest of individuals for most misdemeanors that were not committed within the view of a police officer. However, as long as police have the necessary probable cause, a warrant is usually not needed to arrest someone suspected of a felony in a public place; these laws vary from state to state. In a non-emergency situation, an arrest of an individual in their home requires an arrest warrant.\n\nProbable cause can be based on either direct observation by the police officer, or on hearsay information provided by others. Information the police bring to the neutral and detached magistrate must establish that—considering the police officer's experience and training—the officer knows facts, either through personal observation or through hearsay, that would suggest to a reasonable, prudent person that the individual named in the warrant committed or was committing a crime.\n\nFrom 1964 to 1983, a constitutionally adequate affidavit comprised exclusively or primarily of hearsay information had to have contained information suggesting to the examining magistrate that (1) the hearsay declarant supplying the information to the police was a credible person, and (2) that the hearsay declarant had a strong basis of knowledge for the alleged facts. Since 1983, a constitutionally sufficient affidavit must support a conclusion by a reviewing magistrate that the \"totality of the circumstances\" suggest that there is a fair probability that the facts the police relied on for probable cause to arrest are valid; the magistrate balances “the relative weights of all the various indicia of reliability (and unreliability) attending an informant's tip.”\n\nThe individual issuing the arrest warrant need not be a judge or an attorney, but must be both capable of determining whether probable cause exists as well as be a neutral and detached official. While arrest warrants are typically issued by courts, they may also be issued by one of the chambers of the United States Congress or other legislatures (via the call of the house motion) and other political entities.\n\nA warrant is invalid if the defendant challenging the arrest warrant can show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that: \n\nThe arrest warrant must, to comply with the Fourth Amendment, \"particularly describe\" the person to be seized. If the arrest warrant does not contain such a description, it is invalid—even if the affidavit submitted by the police or the warrant application contained this requisite information.\n\nA mittimus is a writ issued by a court or magistrate, directing the sheriff or other executive officer to convey the person named in the writ to a prison or jail, and directing the jailor to receive and imprison the person.\n\nAn example of the usage of this word is as follows:\n\"... Thomas Fraser, Gregor Van Iveren and John Schaver having some time since been Confirmed by the Committee of the County of Albany for being Persons disaffected to the Cause of America and whose going at large may be dangerous to the State, Ordered Thereupon that a Mittimus be made out to keep them confined till such time as they be discharged by the Board or any other three of the Commissioners.\"\n\nIn police jargon, these writs are sometimes referred to as a writ of capias, defined as orders to \"take\" a person or assets. Capias writs are often issued when a suspect fails to appear for a scheduled adjudication, hearing, or similar proceeding.\nA bench warrant is a summons issued from \"the bench\" (a judge or court) directing the police to arrest someone who must be brought before a specific judge either for contempt of court or for failing to appear in court as required. Unlike a basic arrest warrant, a bench warrant is not issued to initiate the first criminal action.\n\nFor example, if a defendant is released on bail or under recognizance and misses a scheduled court appearance, or if a witness whose testimony is required in court does not appear as required by a subpoena, a bench warrant may be issued for that person's arrest. In cases where a bench warrant is issued to arrest people who posted bail and subsequently missed their court dates, usually after they are rearrested and brought before the judge, the judge may raise the bail amount or revoke it completely.\n\nIf a law enforcement officer stops an individual with an outstanding bench warrant against him, the person may be detained on the warrant, and may be held in jail until a bond is posted or a hearing is held on the warrant. The hearing may result in the court setting a new bail amount, new conditions, and a new court appearance date. If a criminal defendant is arrested on a bench warrant, the court may determine that the person is a flight risk (likely to flee the jurisdiction) and order that person held without bail.\n\nAn arrest warrant is an \"outstanding arrest warrant\" when the person named in the warrant has not yet been arrested. A warrant may be outstanding if the person named in the warrant is intentionally evading law enforcement, unaware that there is a warrant out for his or her arrest, the agency responsible for executing the warrant has a backlog of warrants to serve, or a combination of these factors.\n\nSome jurisdictions have a very high number of outstanding warrants. The vast majority in such American jurisdictions are for traffic related (non-violent) citations. The U.S. state of California in 1999 had around 2.5 million outstanding warrants, with nearly 1 million of them in the Los Angeles area. The city of Baltimore, Maryland had 100,000 as of 2007. New Orleans, Louisiana has 49,000.\n\nSome places have laws placing various restrictions on persons with outstanding warrants, such as prohibiting renewal of one's driver's license or obtaining a passport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2744707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2744707", "title": "Bankruptcy in the United Kingdom", "text": "Bankruptcy in the United Kingdom\n\nBankruptcy in the United Kingdom is divided into separate local regimes for England and Wales, for Northern Ireland, and for Scotland. There is also a UK insolvency law which applies across the United Kingdom, since bankruptcy refers only to insolvency of individuals and partnerships. Other procedures, for example administration and liquidation, apply to insolvent companies. However, the term 'bankruptcy' is often used when referring to insolvent companies in the general media.\n\nIn England and Wales, bankruptcy is governed by Part IX of the Insolvency Act 1986 (as amended) and by the Insolvency Rules 1986 (as amended). The term bankruptcy applies only to individuals, not to companies or other legal entities.\n\nAn individual may be made bankrupt only by court order following the presentation of a bankruptcy petition. An individual may present his own petition on the ground that he is insolvent, i.e. unable to pay his debts. A creditor or creditors may also petition for a bankruptcy order to be made against an individual debtor.\n\nBefore a creditor presents a bankruptcy petition he must usually first serve on the debtor a statutory demand in one of the prescribed forms requiring the debtor to pay the sum claimed within 21 days of service of the demand. The debtor may apply to the court to set aside the demand on the basis that the debt is disputed on bona fide grounds or that he has a counterclaim, set off or cross-demand which equals or exceeds the amount of the debt claimed by the creditor. If the debtor fails to pay the sum claimed in the demand or to apply to set aside the demand or if his application to set aside the demand is dismissed by the court, the creditor may present a bankruptcy petition. Alternatively, a creditor may petition without first serving a demand if execution on a judgment has failed. In either case the debtor must owe the creditor at least £5000 and the claim must be for a liquidated sum, i.e. a fixed sum of money (not, for example, damages).\n\nA bankruptcy petition must generally be served on the debtor personally, but if the creditor is unable to effect service, either because the debtor has evaded service or cannot be traced, the court may order substituted service, i.e. service by post or some other method which is likely to bring the demand to the debtor's attention.\n\nAt the hearing of the petition the court may make a bankruptcy order if the debt is undisputed or not capable of being disputed, dismiss the petition (for example if the debt has been paid) or adjourn the petition to give the debtor time to pay.\n\nIf a bankruptcy order is made the administration of the bankrupt person's affairs is handled by a trustee in bankruptcy who must be either the Official Receiver (a civil servant) or a licensed insolvency practitioner appointed either by the Secretary of State or by the creditors at a meeting called for that purpose. The bankrupt's assets (excluding tools of his trade and other essentials) vest in his trustee who is obliged to realise them (generally by selling them) to pay a dividend to creditors.\n\nA bankrupt person is subject to certain restrictions, principally that he may not raise credit without informing the person from whom he is borrowing that he is a bankrupt, and that he may not act as a director of a company. He is also subject to obligations to give information to his trustee and to cooperate with him in the administration of his affairs. Extensive powers are available to enable the court to compel the bankrupt to do so. Similarly the court has power to undo a range of transactions entered into by the bankrupt with a view to dissipating or reducing the value of his assets in the period before his bankruptcy.\n\nFollowing the coming into force of the Enterprise Act 2002's bankruptcy provisions in April 2004, an England & Wales bankruptcy will now normally last no longer than 12 months and maybe fewer, if the Official Receiver files in Court a certificate that his investigations are complete. At the end of that period the bankrupt is discharged and he ceases to be liable for his bankruptcy debts. However, in cases where the bankrupt is considered culpable for his or her insolvency, a bankruptcy restrictions order may be made to extend some of the restrictions of bankruptcy for up to 15 years.\n\nAs an alternative to bankruptcy a debtor may propose an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) to his creditors (see Part VIII of the Insolvency Act 1986) or a Debt Relief Order if debts do not exceed a certain threshold. An IVA takes the form of a proposal to creditors to pay some or all of the debtor's debts over a period of time by selling assets or making payment out of income or a combination of the two. The proposal must be approved by a licensed insolvency practitioner who will convene a meeting of creditors to consider it. Approval requires a majority vote in value in excess of 75%. If the proposal is approved it binds all the debtor's creditors whether or not they have voted in favour of it.\n\nIn theory it is also open to a debtor to make a proposal to his creditors by deed of arrangement under the Deeds of Arrangement Act 1914, but this procedure has fallen into disuse since the introduction of voluntary arrangements under the Insolvency Act 1986.\n\n\nBankruptcy in Scotland is called Sequestration and the organisation responsible for administering these processes is the Accountant in Bankruptcy. There are alternatives to bankruptcy that can help individuals deal with debt problems, these include the Debt Arrangement Scheme. Other options include Trust Deeds, these are types of agreement arranged between the individual in debt and his or her creditors. There are organisations that give free professional advice to individuals experiencing problems with debt, these include Citizens Advice Scotland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5714555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5714555", "title": "Blasphemy law in Pakistan", "text": "Blasphemy law in Pakistan\n\nThe Pakistan Penal Code, the main judicial law of Pakistan, prohibits blasphemy () against any recognized religion, providing penalties ranging from a fine to death. From 1967 to 2014, over 1,300 people have been accused of blasphemy, Muslims constitute the majority of those booked under these laws.\n\nOver 60 people accused of blasphemy have been murdered before their respective trials were over, and prominent figures who opposed the blasphemy law have been assassinated. \nSince 1990, 62 people have been murdered as a result of blasphemy allegations.\n\nAccording to one religious minority source, an accusation of blasphemy commonly subjects the accused, police, lawyers, and judges to harassment, threats, attacks and rioting. Critics complain that Pakistan's blasphemy law \"is overwhelmingly being used to persecute religious minorities and settle personal vendettas,\" but calls for change in the blasphemy laws have been strongly resisted by Islamic parties - most prominently the Barelvi school of Islam. Pakistan's laws became particularly severe between 1980 and 1986, when a number of clauses were added to the laws by the military government of General Zia-ul Haq, to \"Islamicise\" the laws and deny the Muslim character of the Ahmadi minority. Prior to 1986, only 14 cases pertaining to blasphemy were reported. Parliament through the Second Amendment to the Constitution on September 7, 1974, under Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto's patronage declared Ahmadi Muslims as non-Muslims. In 1986 it was supplemented by a new blasphemy provision also applied to Ahmadi Muslims (See Persecution of Ahmadis).\n\nCases under blasphemy law have also been registered against Muslims who have harassed non-Muslims.\n\nBy its constitution, the official name of Pakistan is the \"Islamic Republic of Pakistan\" as of 1956. More than 96% of Pakistan's 167 million citizens (2008) are Muslims. \nAmong countries with a Muslim majority, Pakistan has the strictest anti-blasphemy laws. The first purpose of those laws is to protect Islamic authority. By the constitution (Article 2), Islam is the state religion. By the constitution's Article 31, it is the country's duty to foster the Islamic way of life. By Article 33, it is the country's duty to discourage parochial, racial, tribal, sectarian, and provincial prejudices among the citizens. Under Article 10A of constitution it is also the state's duty to provide for the right of fair trial.\n\nReligion-related offences on the territory of modern Pakistan were first codified by the British Raj in 1860, and were expanded in 1927. Pakistan inherited that legislation when it gained independence after the partition of India in 1947. Several sections of Pakistan's Penal Code comprise its blasphemy laws.\n\nExcept for § 295-C, the provisions of § 295 require that an offence be a consequence of the accused's intent. \n\n§ 298 states:\n\nBetween 1986 and 2007, Pakistani authorities charged 647 people with blasphemy offences. Fifty percent of these were non-Muslims, who represent only 3% of the national population. No judicial execution for blasphemy has ever occurred in Pakistan, but 20 of those charged were murdered.\n\nThe only law that may be useful in countering misuse of the blasphemy law is PPC 153 A (a), whoever \"by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representations or otherwise, promotes or incites, or attempts to promote or incite, on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, caste or community or any other ground whatsoever, disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between different religious, racial, language or regional groups or castes or communities\" shall be fined and punished with imprisonment for a term that may extend to five years.\n\nOn 12 January 2011, Prime Minister of Pakistan Yousuf Raza Gilani once again said that there would be no amendments to the blasphemy law.\n\nThe Federal Shariat Court (FSC) is a religious body which rules on whether any particular law is repugnant to the injunctions of Islam. If a law is repugnant to Islam, \"the President in the case of a law with respect to a matter in the Federal Legislative List or the Concurrent Legislative List, or the Governor in the case of a law with respect to a matter not enumerated in either of those Lists, shall take steps to amend the law so as to bring such law or provision into conformity with the Injunctions of Islam\" (Constitution, Article 203D). In October 1990, the FSC ruled that § 295-C was repugnant to Islam by permitting life imprisonment as an alternative to a death sentence. The Court said \"the penalty for contempt of the Holy Prophet ... is death.\" The FSC ruled that, if the President did not take action to amend the law before 30 April 1991, then § 295-C would stand amended by its ruling.\n\nPromptly after the FSC's ruling in 1990, Bishop Dani L. Tasleem filed an appeal in the Supreme Court of Pakistan, which has the power to overrule the FSC. In April 2009, the Shariat Appellate Bench of the Supreme Court considered the appeal. Deputy Attorney-General Agha Tariq Mehmood, who represented the federal government, said that the Shariat Appellate Bench dismissed the appeal because the appellant did not pursue it. The appellant did not present any argument on the appeal because the appellant, according to reports, was no longer alive. Consequently, it appears to be the law in Pakistan that persons convicted under § 295-C must be sentenced to death with or without a fine.\n\nThose who are accused of blasphemy may be subject to harassment, threats, and attacks. Police, lawyers, and judges may also be subject to harassment, threats, and attacks when blasphemy is an issue. Those accused of blasphemy are subject to immediate incarceration, and most accused are denied bail to forestall mob violence. It is common for those accused of blasphemy to be put in solitary confinement for their protection from other inmates and guards. Like those who have served a sentence for blasphemy, those who are acquitted of blasphemy usually go into hiding or leave Pakistan.\n\nMashal Khan () was a Pakistani student at the Abdul Wali Khan University Mardan who was killed by an angry mob in the premises of the university in April 2017 over allegations of posting blasphemous content online.\n\nPakistan's support of blasphemy laws has caused it to be active in the international arena in promoting global limitations on freedom of religion or belief and limitations on freedom of expression. In March 2009, Pakistan presented a resolution to the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva which calls upon the world to formulate laws against the defamation of religion. See blasphemy.\n\nIn May 2010, Pakistan blocked access to Facebook because the website hosted a page called Everybody Draw Muhammad Day. Pakistan lifted the block after Facebook prevented access to the page. In June 2010, Pakistan blocked seventeen websites for hosting content that the authorities considered offensive to Muslims. At the same time, Pakistan began to monitor the content of Google, Yahoo, YouTube, Amazon, MSN, Hotmail, and Bing.\n\nOn 19 March 2014, \"The Nation\" polled its readers and later reported that 68% of Pakistanis believe the blasphemy law should be repealed. On the other hand, the International Crisis Group reports that ... the Islamic parties are most successful in galvanising street power when the goal is narrowly linked to obstructing reforms to discriminatory religious laws that often provoke sectarian violence and conflict and undermine the rule of law and constitutionalism.\n\nPakistani human rights activists say that because there is no punishment for making a false accusation, charges of blasphemy are being used to harass minorities and settle personal conflicts.\n\nArrests and death sentences issued for blasphemy laws in Pakistan go back to the late 1980s and early 90s. Despite the implementation of these laws, no one has yet been executed by the order of the courts or governments as to date, only imprisoned to await a verdict or killed at the hands of felons who were convinced that the suspects were guilty.\n\nSome of the widely reported cases were:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "66066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66066", "title": "Broadcast Music, Inc.", "text": "Broadcast Music, Inc.\n\nBroadcast Music, Inc. (BMI) is one of five United States performing rights organizations, along with ASCAP, SESAC, Pro Music Rights, and SoundExchange. It collects license fees on behalf of songwriters, composers, and music publishers and distributes them as royalties to those members whose works have been performed. In FY 2017, BMI collected more than $1.13 billion in licensing fees and distributed $1.023 billion in royalties. BMI's repertoire includes over 800,000 songwriters and 13 million compositions.\n\nBMI songwriters create music in many genres, ranging from mainstream pop and country to death metal and hip hop. BMI represents artists such as Patti LaBelle, Selena, Demi Lovato, Fifth Harmony, Lil Wayne, Birdman, Lady Gaga, Taylor Swift, Eminem, Rihanna, Shakira, Ed Sheeran, Sam Cooke, Willie Nelson, Fats Domino and Dolly Parton; bands as diverse as Maroon 5, Evanescence, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Nickelback, and Linkin Park; and composers such as Harry Gregson-Williams, John Williams, and Danny Elfman and musical songwriters Richard & Robert Sherman. BMI also represents Michael Jackson's music catalog, Sony/ATV Music Publishing, which features the late artist's music as well as the largest repertoire of any catalog in history.\n\nIn the 1930s, radio was coming to prominence as a source of musical entertainment that threatened to weaken record sales and opportunities for \"live\" acts. The Great Depression was already draining artist revenues from recordings and live performances. ASCAP, the pre-eminent royalty/licensing agency for more than two decades, required radio stations to subscribe to \"blanket\" licenses granting ASCAP a fixed percentage of each station's revenue, regardless of how much music the station played from ASCAP's repertoire. In 1939, ASCAP announced a substantial increase in the revenue share licensees would be required to pay. BMI was founded by the National Association of Broadcasters to provide a lower-cost alternative to ASCAP. As such, BMI created competition in the field of performing rights, providing an alternative source of licensing for all music users.\n\nThe vast majority of U.S. radio stations and all three radio networks refused to renew their ASCAP licenses for 1941, choosing to forgo playing ASCAP music entirely and relying on the BMI repertoire. In February 1941, BMI and the Department of Justice entered into a consent decree, requiring certain changes to BMI's business model, including giving licensees the option of paying only for the music they actually use instead of buying a blanket license. The U.S. District Court in Milwaukee was chosen by the Justice Department to supervise the decree for both BMI and ASCAP. \n\nCompeting against the strongly established ASCAP, BMI sought out artists that ASCAP tended to overlook or ignore. BMI also purchased the rights to numerous catalogs held by independent publishers or whose ASCAP contracts were about to expire. To attract newer writers, BMI proposed to compensate songwriters and publishers on the basis of a fixed fee per performance, as opposed to ASCAP's two-tier system which discriminated against less-established songwriters. Thus, despite its original motivation regarding radio station royalties and its focus on radio station revenues vs artist revenues, BMI became the first performing rights organization in the United States to represent songwriters of blues, jazz, rhythm and blues, gospel (black genres, performers, and writers that ASCAP did not want to represent), country, folk, Latin, and—ultimately—rock and roll. During the 1940s and 1950s, BMI was the primary licensing organization for Country artists and R&B artists, while ASCAP centered on more established Pop artists. Also during this time, BMI expanded its repertoire of classical music, and now represents the majority of the members of the prestigious American Academy of Arts and Letters and the winners of 31 Pulitzer Prizes for Music. In July 2017, BMI renewed long-term partnership with C3 Presents, world's largest music festival producers.\n\nBMI's practice of selling only \"blanket licenses\", rather than licenses for individual artists, led to a major antitrust law dispute between BMI and CBS that resulted in the 1979 case \"Broadcast Music, Inc. v. CBS, Inc.\", in which the U.S. Supreme Court held that the Sherman Act prohibition of \"price fixing\" was not strictly literal, and should be interpreted in light of economic efficiencies an agreement brings.\n\nBMI issues licenses to users of music, including:\n\nBMI tracks public performances for more than 13 million works, and collects and distributes licensing revenues for those performances as royalties to over 800,000 songwriters, composers, and music publishers it represents. BMI has offices in Atlanta, London, Los Angeles, Miami, Nashville, New York, and Puerto Rico.\n\nBMI annually hosts award shows that honor the songwriters, composers and music publishers of the year's most-performed songs in the BMI catalogue. BMI Award shows include the BMI Latin Awards, BMI Pop Awards, BMI Film/TV Awards, BMI Urban Awards, BMI London Awards, BMI Country Awards, BMI Christian Awards, and the BMI Trailblazers of Gospel Music Luncheon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1242599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1242599", "title": "Candidate of Law", "text": "Candidate of Law\n\nCandidate of Law (, , , , ) is the degree awarded to jurists who have passed the law exam in Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland after studying law for about 5–6 years. In Iceland, graduates are now awarded a master's degree in the field of law.\n\nThe Swedish \"jur.kand\" is obtained after four and a half years at the normal pace. Danish, Icelandic and Finnish degrees take five years. In Norway, the degree is obtained after five and a half years, in addition to a compulsory single term entrance examination in philosophy and ethics, the Examen Philosophicum – a total of 6 years. In Norway it was replaced by the degree Master of Laws in 2003; the final student to graduate as a cand.jur did so in the spring term of 2007. Swedish universities switched to a curriculum leading up to a Master of Law rather than a jur.kand in the fall of 2010.\n\nPreviously in Finland the academic degree (, ) was awarded to a person after completing generally 5 years of study in the field of law. Both before and after the Bologna process in 2005 the academic degree is split into two different grades. Previously, the lower degree was \"varanotaari\" (Fi.) / \"vicenotarie\" (Sw.), and currently the lower degree awarded is \"oikeusnotaari\" (Fi.) / \"rättsnotarie\" (Sw.) after completing circa 3 years of study (180 ECTS credits) equal to LL.B. The upper degree is \"oikeustieteen maisteri\" (Fi.) / \"juris magister\" (Sw.) after additional 2 years of study (120 ECTS) equal to an LL.M. or JD.\n\nThe right to practice specific law-related occupations (e.g. judge, prosecutor, lawyer) in Finland is awarded by completing either the old exam \"oikeustieteen kandidaatti\" / \"juris kandidat\" (before 2005) or the new exam \"oikeustieteen maisteri\" / \"juris magister\" (after 2005). The \"oikeusnotaari\"/\"rättsnotarie\" degree alone doesn't give the right to practice law-related occupations.\n\nThe cand. jur. education used to be the qualifying legal education in Norway usually completed in 6 years full-time. As a result of an extensive reform of the Norwegian educational system, the cand. jur. program was replaced with the Master of Laws-degree. The Master of Laws is standardized to 5 years, based on the standard length of a bachelor+master education of 5 years.\n\nThe final cand. jur. degree was awarded in the Spring of 2007.\nTraditionally, the student must swear an oath to avoid straying from truth and justice, nor encouraging needless dispute. The oath is no longer spoken, but it is implied with a handshake during the graduation ceremony.\n\nIn Scandinavian countries, the exam can only be taken at a university with a diploma privilege granted by the government – though any institution may provide legal education. University education was until recently based on large scale seminars rather than classroom education, thus several private institutions were established in the 1980s and 1990s in order to assist lawstudents.\n\nThe competition for a study right in law at university is very fierce in all Nordic countries. There are usually more than 10 applicants for one place at the Law faculties. The admission system however vary from every country.\n\nThe degree is roughly equal to the \"Master of Laws (LLM)\" in Europe but a step above the \"Juris Doctor (JD)\" the United States which would be the equivalent of a LL.B .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12052973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12052973", "title": "Chancellor of Justice (Finland)", "text": "Chancellor of Justice (Finland)\n\nThe Chancellor of Justice (Finnish: \"oikeuskansleri\", Swedish: \"justitiekanslern\") is a Finnish government official who supervises authorities', such as cabinet ministers', compliance with the law and advances legal protection of Finnish citizens. The Chancellor investigates complaints against authorities' activities and may also start an investigation of his or her own initiative. The Chancellor attends cabinet meetings to ensure that legal procedures and regulations are followed. The Chancellor has wide-ranging oversight, investigative and prosecutorial powers.\n\nThe Chancellor and his deputy are appointed by the President of Finland. The Chancellor is appointed for life.\n\nThe incumbent Chancellor of Justice is Tuomas Pöysti.\n\nThe Office of the Chancellor of Justice dates back to the 18th century, when Finland was part of the Kingdom of Sweden. When Finland was annexed by the Russian Empire in 1809 as an autonomous Grand Duchy, the legal system largely remained the same. The duties of the Chancellor of Justice were given to the Procurator, who assisted the Governor-General in supervising obedience of the law.\n\nA year after Finland had declared its independence in 1917, the title was reverted to Chancellor of Justice. The first Chancellor of Justice was Pehr Evind Svinhufvud, who had served as the Speaker of the Parliament and who was later to become the third President of Finland. In 1919, the post of Parliamentary Ombudsman was created. The Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice share many duties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1141259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1141259", "title": "Constitutional Council (France)", "text": "Constitutional Council (France)\n\nThe Constitutional Council (; ) is the highest constitutional authority in France. It was established by the Constitution of the Fifth Republic on 4 October 1958 and its duty is to ensure that constitutional principles and rules are upheld. It is housed in the Palais-Royal, Paris.\n\nIts main activity is to rule on whether proposed statutes conform with the Constitution, after they have been voted by Parliament and before they are signed into law by the President of the French Republic (\"a priori\" review). However, since 1 March 2010, individual citizens who are party to a trial or a lawsuit have been able to ask for the Council to review whether the law applied in the case is constitutional. In 1971, the Council ruled that conformity with the Constitution also entails conformity with two other texts referred to in the preamble of the Constitution, the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen and the preamble of the constitution of the Fourth Republic, both of which list constitutional rights.\n\nThe Government of France consists of an executive branch (President of the Republic, Prime Minister, ministers, and their services and affiliated organizations), a legislative branch (both houses of Parliament), and a judicial branch. The judicial branch is, unlike for instance the federal judiciary of the United States under the Supreme Court, not organized into a single hierarchy (administrative courts fall under the Council of State, civil and criminal courts under the Court of Cassation), and some of its entities also have advisory functions. For historical reasons there has long been a hostility to having anything resembling a \"Supreme Court\"—that is, a powerful court able to quash legislation. Whether the Council is a court is a subject of academic discussion, but some scholars consider it the supreme court of France.\n\nThe Constitution of the French Fifth Republic distinguishes two distinct kinds of legislation: statute law, which is normally voted upon by Parliament (except for \"ordonnances\") and government regulations, which are enacted by the Prime Minister and his government as decrees and other regulations (\"arrêtés\"). Article 34 of the Constitution exhaustively lists the areas reserved for statute law: these include, for instance, criminal law.\n\nAny regulation issued by the executive in the areas constitutionally reserved for statute law is unconstitutional unless it has been authorized as secondary legislation by a statute. Any citizen with an interest in the case can obtain the cancellation of these regulations by the Council of State, on grounds that the executive has exceeded its authority. Furthermore, the Council of State can quash regulations on grounds that they violate existing statute law, constitutional rights or the \"general principles of law\".\n\nIn addition, new acts can be referred to the Constitutional Council by a petition just prior to being signed into law by the President of the Republic. The most common circumstance for this is that 60 opposition members of the National Assembly, or 60 opposition members of the Senate request such a review.\n\nIf the Prime Minister thinks that some clauses of existing statute law instead belong to the domain of regulations, he can also ask the Council to reclassify these clauses as regulations.\n\nTraditionally, France refused to accept the idea that courts could quash legislation enacted by Parliament (though administrative courts could quash regulations produced by the executive). This goes back to the French revolutionary era: pre-revolutionary courts had often used their power not to register laws and thus prevent their application for political purposes, and had blocked reforms. French courts were then prohibited from making rulings of a general nature. Also, it seemed that if courts could quash legislation after it had been enacted and taken into account by citizens, it would introduce legal uncertainties: how could a citizen plan his or her actions according to what is legal or not if laws could \"a posteriori\" be found not to hold? Yet, in the late 20th century, courts, especially administrative courts, began applying the consequences of international treaties, including law of the European Union, as superior to national law.\n\nA 2009 reform, effective on 1 March 2010, enables parties to a lawsuit or trial to question the constitutionality of the law that is being applied to them. The procedure, known as \"question prioritaire de constitutionnalité\", is broadly as follows: the question is raised before the trial judge and, if it has merit, it is forwarded to the appropriate supreme court (Council of State if the referral comes from an administrative court, Cour de Cassation for other courts). The supreme court collects such referrals and submits them to the Constitutional Council. If the Constitutional Council rules a law to be unconstitutional, this law is struck down from the law books; this decision is valid for everybody and not only for the cases at hand.\n\nThe Council has two main areas of power:\n\nIn some cases, examination of laws by the Council is compulsory. Organic bills, those which fundamentally affect government and treaties, need to be assessed by the Council before they are considered ratified (Article 61-1 and 54). Amendments concerning the rules governing parliamentary procedures need to be considered by the Council, as well. Guidance may be sought from the Council in regard to whether reform should come under statute law (voted by Parliament) or whether issues are considered as \"règlement\" (regulation) to be adopted with decree of the prime minister. The re-definition of legislative dispositions as regulatory matters initially constituted a significant share of the (then light) caseload of the Council.\n\nIn the case of other statutes, seeking the oversight of the Council is not compulsory. However, the President of the Republic, the President of the Senate, the President of the Assembly, the Prime Minister of France, or 60 members of the National Assembly, or 60 Senators can submit a statute for examination by the Council before its signing into law by the President. In general, it is the parliamentary opposition which brings laws that it deems to infringe civil rights before the Council.\n\nAnother task of the council, of lesser importance in terms of number of referrals, is the reclassification of statute law into the domain of regulations, on the Prime Minister's request. This happens when the Prime Minister and his government wish to alter law that has been enacted as statute law, but should instead belong to regulations according to the Constitution. The Prime Minister has to obtain reclassification from the Council prior to taking any decree changing the regulations. This, however, is nowadays only a small fraction of the Council's activity: in 2008, out 140 of decisions, only 5 concerned reclassifications.\n\nWhile since the 19th century the judicial review that the Constitutional Council brings to bear on the acts of the executive branch has played an increasingly large role, the politicians that framed the successive French institutions have long been reluctant to have the judiciary review legislation. The argument was that un-elected judges should not be able to overrule directly the decisions of the democratically elected legislature. This may also have reflected the poor impression that the political action of the parlements – courts of justice under the ancien régime monarchy – had left: these courts often had chosen to block legislation in order to further the privileges of a small caste. Whatever the reasons, the idea was that legislation was a political tool, and that the responsibility of legislation should be borne by the legislative body.\n\nOriginally, the Council was meant to have rather technical responsibilities: ensuring that national elections were fair, arbitrating the division between statute law (from the legislative) and regulation (from the executive), etc. The Council role of safekeeping fundamental rights was probably not originally intended by the drafters of the Constitution of the French Fifth Republic: it was thought that Parliament should be able to see for itself that it did not infringe on such rights. However, the Council's activity considerably extended in the 1970s.\n\nFrom 1958 to 1970, under Charles de Gaulle's presidency, the Constitutional Council was sometimes described as a \"cannon aimed at Parliament\", protecting the executive branch against encroachment by statute law voted by Parliament. All but one referral to the Constitutional Council came from the Prime Minister, against acts of Parliament, and the Council agreed to partial annulments in all cases. The only remaining referral came from the President of the Senate, Gaston Monnerville, against the 1962 referendum on the direct election of the President of the Republic, which Charles de Gaulle supported; and the Council ruled itself \"incompetent\" to cancel the direct expression of the will of the French people.\n\nIn 1971, however, the Council ruled unconstitutional (Decision 71-44DC) some provisions of a law changing the rules for the incorporation of private nonprofit associations, because they infringed on freedom of association, one of the principles given in the 1789 \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen\"; they used the fact that the preamble of the French constitution briefly referred to those principles to justify their decision. For the first time, a statute was declared unconstitutional not because it infringed on technical legal principles, but because it was deemed to infringe on personal freedoms.\n\nIn 1974, the possibility to request a constitutional review was extended to 60 members of the National Assembly or 60 senators. Soon, the political opposition seized that opportunity to request the review of all controversial acts.\n\nThe Council increasingly has frowned upon \"riders\" (\"cavaliers\") – amendments or clauses introduced into bills but having no relationship to the original topic of the bill; for instance, \"budgetary riders\" in the Budget bill, or \"social riders\" in the Social security budget bill. \"See legislative riders in France\".\n\nIn January 2005, Pierre Mazeaud, then president of the Council, announced that the Council would take a stricter view of language of a non-prescriptive character introduced in laws, sometimes known as \"legislative neutrons\". Instead of prescribing or prohibiting, as advocated by Portalis, such language makes statements about the state of the world, or wishes about what it should be. Previously, this language was considered devoid of juridical effects and thus harmless; but Mazeaud contended that introducing vague language devoid of juridical consequences just dilutes law unnecessarily. He denounced the use of law as an instrument of political communication, expressing vague wishes instead for effective legislation. Mazeaud also said that, because of the constitutional objective that law should be accessible and understandable, law should be precise and clear, and devoid of details or equivocal formulas. The practice of putting into laws remarks or wishes with no clear legal consequences has been a long-standing concern of French jurists.\n\n, one law out of two, including the budget, was sent to the Council at the request of the opposition. In January 2005, Pierre Mazeaud, then president of the Council, publicly deplored the inflation of the number of constitutional review requests motivated by political concerns, without much legal argumentation to back them on constitutional grounds.\n\nThe French constitutional law of 23 July 2008 amended article 61 of the Constitution. It now allows for courts to submit questions of unconstitutionality of laws to the Constitutional Council. The Court of Cassation (supreme court over civil and criminal courts) and the Council of State (supreme court over administrative courts) filter the requests coming from the courts under them.\n\"Lois organiques\" and other decisions organizing how this system functions were subsequently adopted, and the system was activated on 1 March 2010.\n\nOn 29 December 2012, the council said it is overturning an upper income tax rate of 75% due to be introduced in 2013.\n\nIn 1995, Roland Dumas was appointed president of the Council by François Mitterrand. Roland Dumas attracted major controversy twice. First, he appeared in scandals regarding the Elf Aquitaine oil company, with many details regarding his mistress, Christine Deviers-Joncour, and his expensive tastes in clothing appearing in the press. Then, the Council put forth some highly controversial opinions in a decision related to the International Criminal Court, in Decision 98–408 DC, declaring that the sitting President of the Republic could be tried criminally only by the High Court of Justice, a special court organized by Parliament and originally meant for cases of high treason. This, in essence, ensured that Jacques Chirac would not face criminal charges until he left office. This controversial decision is now moot since the rules of responsibility of the President of the Republic were redefined by the French constitutional law of 23 July 2008. In 1999, because of the Elf scandal, Roland Dumas put himself on leave from the Council and Yves Guéna assumed the interim presidency.\n\nIn 2005, the Council attracted some controversy when Valéry Giscard d'Estaing and Simone Veil campaigned for the proposed European Constitution, which was submitted to the French voters in a referendum. Simone Veil had done so after obtaining a leave of absence from the Council, which was criticized by some, including Jean-Louis Debré, president of the National Assembly, as a dubious procedure – to follow their reasoning, what is the use of prohibiting appointed members of the council from conducting partisan politics if they can put themselves on leave for the duration of the campaign? She defended herself by pointing to precedent and famously remarked \"How is that his business? He has no lesson to teach me.\" about Debré.\n\nThe Council is made up of former Presidents of the Republic who have chosen to sit in the Council (which they may not do if they become directly involved in politics again), and nine other members who serve non-renewable terms of nine years, one third of whom are appointed every three years, three each by the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly, and the President of the Senate. The President of the Constitutional Council is selected by the President of the Republic.\n\nFollowing the 2008 constitutional revision, appointments to the Council are subject to a parliamentary approval process (Constitution of France, articles 13 and 56). , these provisions are not operational yet since the relevant procedures have not yet been set in law.\n\nA quorum of seven members is imposed unless exceptional circumstances are noted. Votes are by majority of the members present at the meeting; the president of the Council has a casting vote in case of an equal split. For decisions about the incapacity of the President of the Republic, a majority of the members of the council is needed.\n\n, the current members are:\n\n, the following members do not sit but can if they want to:\n\nThe members of the Council, except for former Presidents of the Republic, are sworn in by the President of the Republic\n\nThe members of the Council should abstain from partisanship. They should refrain from making declarations that could lead them to be suspected of partisanship. The possibility for former presidents to sit in the Council is a topic of moderate controversy; some see it as incompatible with the absence of partisanship. René Coty, Vincent Auriol, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, Jacques Chirac and Nicolas Sarkozy are the only former Presidents of France to have sat in the Council.\n\nThe Council sits in the Palais Royal (which also houses the Ministry of Culture) in Paris near the Conseil d'État.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23176996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23176996", "title": "Constitutional review in Germany", "text": "Constitutional review in Germany\n\nThe constitution (Grundgesetz) of the Federal Republic of Germany establishes a separate Federal Constitutional Court of Germany (Bundesverfassungsgericht) that is empowered with reviewing acts of the legislature (so mainly from the Federal Republic Congress - the Bundestag) for their constitutionality.\n\nMost states (Bundesländer) also have separate courts for the according purpose. These are separate Supreme Courts that do not deal with appellate cases in civil and criminal law - but rather, just in constitutional cases.\n\nThe Federal Constitutional Court of Germany can even review and reject constitutional amendments on the grounds that they are contradictory to the rest of the Federal Republic Constitution (\"Verfassungswidriges Verfassungsrecht\"). This goes beyond even the powers of the Supreme Court of the United States, and the Supreme Court of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "33276375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33276375", "title": "Corroboration in Scots law", "text": "Corroboration in Scots law\n\nThe importance of corroboration is a unique feature of Scots criminal law. A cornerstone of Scots law, the requirement for corroborating evidence means at least two different and independent sources of evidence are required in support of each crucial fact before a defendant can be convicted of a crime. This means, for example, that an admission of guilt by the accused is insufficient evidence to convict in Scotland, because that evidence needs to be corroborated by another source. However, testimony from some experts, such as forensic medical examiners or doctors, is accepted by courts on the basis of the expert's report alone, therefore requiring no corroboration.\n\nCorroboration had, in some way, already been established by the time the earliest Institutional Writers had begun to illustrate Scots criminal law. MacKenzie described the ‘singularity’ of witnesses, and their ‘contrariety’, as insufficient proof - subsequently repeated by Hume, ‘…no one shall in any case be convicted on the testimony of a single witness’. A similar statement appears in Alison. \nCorroboration can also be traced to Biblical sources. The New Testament stated, ‘In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established’ - although it is unlikely that the requirement is based solely from the Bible. \nCorroboration also has origins in Roman law. The Code of Justinian read, ‘We plainly order that the evidence of only one witness shall not be taken’. It has been suggested that at this time, the requirement was based on the distrust of juries - however, it is suggested that it was the mistrust of judges instead, which allowed corroboration to take root.\n\nFollowing the Cadder ruling in 2010, Lord Carloway was appointed to lead a review of the 'corroboration rule' - The Carloway Review. In this review, Lord Carloway gave the following proposal – the current requirement for corroboration in criminal cases should be abolished.\n\nCorroboration is a key element of modern policing, in that Scottish Criminal law requires a sufficiency of evidence to be presented, in other words; \"There must be sufficient admissible evidence, to prove beyond all reasonable doubt, that the accused committed the crime or offence libelled\"\n\nThis involves the principle of corroboration which means that one piece of evidence must be backed up by another piece of evidence.\n\nIt is the responsibility of the police to gather all available evidence and disclose it to the Crown. The Crown will decide what evidence will be led and in which court should a trial be required. \n\nThe most common form of corroboration in regards to criminal offences is the two or more eyewitnesses scenario. Any witness undertaking an oath in court is accepted as being a credible witness and as such, their statement to the court must be taken as truth (although a defence lawyer will attempt to prove this not to be the case through cross examination, undermining their character, pointing out inconsistencies, etc.).\n\nTherefore, if a reporter of an offence makes a statement saying suspect 'x' hit them, and there is a witness who states in a statement that they saw this happen, this is corroboration and this is sufficiency of evidence, providing suitable grounds for the suspect to be charged by police and have their status changed to 'accused'.\n\nThis is known as 'best evidence' and should always be led first at court. Thereafter, further points of corroboration can be raised to the court.\n\nThese can include:\nThere are many more examples of corroboration, and these are a few of the key ones most commonly presented to the court.\n\nThe court will not normally accept the testimony of a single witness, no matter how credible, as being the truth unless there is further evidence via corroboration. It is worth noting that not every witness presented to the court must have the same story, or be believable. Even if you have ten witnesses with eight of them presenting contradicting stories, if two witnesses provide a similar version of events which ties in with the related offence, guilt can be found based on the two witnesses alone. It will make the prosecution harder for the Procurator Fiscal as the defence will use this contradiction to sway the Sheriff, but otherwise this is acceptable evidence. Commonly this can be found in colours of vehicles, where many witnesses will have a distorted recollection of the actual colour.\n\nContrary to popular belief, there are several occasions where corroboration is not required. Road traffic offences such as obstruction, excise and failure to obey traffic signs or signals are some examples of this.\n\nIn instances where there is no direct corroboration, police can still accumulate sufficient indirect or circumstantial evidence to allow a prosecution to be pursued.\n\nCircumstantial evidence can be:\n\nAgain, it is worth noting that where there are no eyewitnesses or direct corroboration of events, such as a murder, the above list can be used to corroborate through sufficiency and prosecute an accused. So for example, a vehicle being tagged by an ANPR unit on a road that leads to a certain location; fingerprints and DNA being found on the body; the accused being found in possession of a blood stained knife and the DNA from that blood being linked to a victim - all this would provide sufficiency circumstantial evidence and corroboration through sufficiency.\n\nAs a legal system founded on civil law principles, evidence in Scots law is normally studied as a branch of procedural law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57985377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57985377", "title": "Crucifix Decrees", "text": "Crucifix Decrees\n\nThe Crucifix Decrees (\"Crucifix Struggle\") were part of the Nazi Regime’s efforts to secularize public life. For example, crucifixes throughout public places like schools were to be replaced with the Fuhrer’s picture. The Crucifix Decrees throughout the years of 1935 to 1941 sparked protests against removing crucifixes from traditional places. Protests notably occurred in Oldenburg (Lower Saxony) in 1936, Frankenholz (Saarland) and Frauenberg (East Prussia) in 1937, and in Bavaria in 1941. These incidents helped to encourage Nazi party leaders to back away from crucifix removals in 1941.\n\nSignificance within the Crucifix Decrees lies within the single-issue based event that it was. Protesting in these cases was not directed towards the regime rather it was over a fundamental idea. The following list are some of the events related to the Crucifix Decrees:\n\n\nHowever, another significant note is how there were different reactions to the crucifix decrees on Nazi leaders' sides. For example, in Oldenburg during 1936 a Gauleiter speech the crowd expected him to rescind the crucifix decrees, but he began his speech on racial problems in Africa. Another example occurred in the district of Ebergs where not a single crucifix was removed from the start. These examples show how single issues ranged among Nazi officials' levels of strictness.\n\nOne German term \"Handlungsspielraum\" is the collective opinion being expressed in a way that the regime has to respond to. This term signifies that organized protest, like those in the Crucifix Decrees among others, forces the regime to take notice and possible action.\n\nFurthermore, these events were part of Gleichschaltung on a larger note because of the all-encompassing mentality of the regime. This was a sign that the regime was taking a step into religion, yet not completely voluntarily on the citizens' side.\n\nThe regime saw noteworthy public protests by primarily Catholics, like those resulting from the Crucifix Decrees, and women. Public protest in the war increased as each event was single-issue based. During wartime, with more women on the home-front there were more issues that became oppressive and therefore women found this as a \"source of complaint\". For example, the Rosenstrasse Protest and the Witten Women’s Protest were two reactions against specific actions: the Rosenstrasse Protest being one event and the Witten Women's Protest being a string of events. It is important to again note how these protests were not in reaction against the regime or Hitler, rather they were against specific personal concerns. It can be thought that the regime would have responded to public protests against the regime itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "36584538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36584538", "title": "Dominion Party (South Africa)", "text": "Dominion Party (South Africa)\n\nThe Dominion Party was a South African political party establish in late October 1934 by dissatisfied members of the South African Party when that party fused with the National Party to form the United National South African Party, commonly referred to as the \"United Party\".\n\nIts formation was mainly due to distrust of the motives of then-Prime Minister J.B.M. Hertzog and the new Afrikaner nationalist faction he brought into the now-united Party. The party was established principally to maintain South Africa's \"British connection\" (it campaigned to keep the Union Jack and God Save the Queen in 1938 and to enter the Second World War in 1939 on the side of Britain) and particularly the Natal's distinct British culture. The Party won 8 seats in the 1938 general election and lost one in 1943. It acquired no seats in 1948 election, and disappeared from national politics. The Dominion Party leader was Colonel C.F. Stallard, who later served as Minister of Mines during the second Ministry of Jan Smuts. The withdrawal of Hertzog and his supporters from the UP government in 1939 can be said to have made the party redundant, explaining its later decline.\n"}
{"id": "19237133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19237133", "title": "English unjust enrichment law", "text": "English unjust enrichment law\n\nThe English law of unjust enrichment is part of the English law of obligations, along with the law of contract, tort, and trusts. The law of unjust enrichment deals with circumstances in which one person is required make restitution of a benefit acquired at the expense of another in circumstances which are unjust.\n\nThe modern law of unjust enrichment encompasses what was once known as the law of quasi-contract. Its precise scope remains a matter of controversy. Beyond quasi-contract, it is sometimes said to encompass the law relating to subrogation, contribution, recoupment, and claims to the traceable substitutes of misapplied property.\n\nEnglish courts have recognised that there are four steps required to establish a claim in unjust enrichment. If the following elements are satisfied, a claimant has a prima facie right to restitution:\nThe law of unjust enrichment is among the most unsettled areas of English law. Its existence as a separate body of law was only explicitly recognised in 1991 in \"Lipkin Gorman v Karpnale Ltd\". While the law has rapidly developed over the last two decades, controversy continues over the precise structure, scope and nature of the law of unjust enrichment.\n\nThe notion of an obligation to make restitution of benefits received at another's expense can be traced back to Roman law. Its history in English law can be traced to the form of action known as \"indebitatus assumpsit\". From this action came the 'common money counts'. Of present relevance are the following: \nDuring the course of the 18th and 19th centuries the law of contract, the law of tort and the law of trusts emerged as discrete bodies of law within English private law. As many thought they covered the field, restitutionary claims as embodied in the common money counts were appended to the law of contract. The various claims were termed 'quasi-contractual'. This was because it was often necessary to plead that the defendant had promised to repay a debt, even though the promise was fictitious and the debt was imposed by the law. While restitutionary obligations were not enforced solely through these quasi-contractual claims, the law of quasi-contract constitutes the core of the modern law of unjust enrichment. A seminal case is \"Moses v Macferlan\" (1760) 2 Burr 1005.\n\nPerhaps more than any other area of the common law, the law of unjust enrichment has been shaped by academic writing, particularly by that of jurists from Oxford and Cambridge. Of course, the law did not develop in a vacuum: the American Law Institute drafted a \"Restatement of the Law of Restitution\" in 1937. The first major practitioner text in England appeared in 1966, written by Robert Goff and Gareth Jones. It was Robert Goff (by this time Lord Goff) who gave the leading judgment in \"Lipkin Gorman v Karpnale Ltd\" over two decades later. Professor Peter Birks was instrumental in promoting the autonomy of unjust enrichment within the law of obligations in his seminal work \"Introduction to the Law of Restitution.\" Academic writing continues to be heavily cited by the highest courts, particularly the more recent work of Professor Andrew Burrows and Professor Graham Virgo, as well as modern editions of \"Goff & Jones: The Law of Unjust Enrichment\", now edited by Professor Charles Mitchell, Professor Paul Mitchell, and Dr Stephen Watterson. A good example of the close relationship between the academy and the profession in the development of this area of law is seen in the recent publication of the \"Restatement of the English Law of Unjust Enrichment\"\".\"\n\nAs it has developed, the law of unjust enrichment has frequently been referred to as the 'law of restitution'. The difficulty with this is that it emphasises a legal \"response\" (restitution) rather than the \"event\" which gives rise to it (unjust enrichment). In doing so, it is akin to treating contract (an event which gives rise to an obligation to perform) as coterminous with compensation (the law's response to non-performance or defective performance). That approach is problematic: the law of compensation is wider than contract, encompassing compensation claims arising out of tortious conduct. This is equally true of restitution: a claimant can obtain restitution not only for an unjust enrichment, but also for a tort. It is in this sense that one can say that restitution is multi-causal: it is a legal response to a number of different events.\n\nControversy continues to surround many aspects of the modern law of unjust enrichment. This controversy extends to its existence as an independent body of law, some arguing that the concept of unjust enrichment lacks the explanatory power it is so frequently asserted to have.\n\nIt would be misleading to exaggerate the level of controversy, however. At least in English law, there is high authority accepting the principle of unjust enrichment as having fundamental explanatory force in this area of law. Recent decisions have continue to clarify key aspects of actions in unjust enrichment. Nevertheless, uncertainty pervades key areas of the law:\nDespite this controversy, the statement by Justice Deane appears to remain an accurate statement of the place of unjust enrichment in the Anglo-Australian law of obligations: \"[The concept of unjust enrichment] constitutes a unifying legal concept which explains why the law recognises, in a variety of distinct categories of case, an obligation on the part of a defendant to make fair and just restitution for a benefit derived at the expense of a plaintiff and which assists in the determination, by the ordinary processes of legal reasoning, of the question whether the law should, in justice, recognise such an obligation in a new or developing category of case.\n\nEnglish courts have recognised that there are four steps involved in establishing a claim to restitution for unjust enrichment. This analytic framework was developed by academics such as Professor Peter Birks. The four steps were expressly endorsed by the House of Lords (now Supreme Court) in \"Banque Financière de la Cité v Parc (Battersea) Ltd\" in the form of four questions: \nSubsequent case law and academic writing has given greater content to this commonly accepted framework. The application of the formula can be illustrated by \"Kelly v Solari.\" In that case, a company paid out a life insurance policy to a widow by mistake. The company brought an action for money had and received against the widow, seeking restitution of the mistaken payment. Analysed in modern language, the widow had been enriched at the company's direct expense. The 'unjust factor' was mistake: the company had conferred the benefit whilst labouring under the incorrect tacit assumption that the payment was due.\n\nThe precise status of this analytic framework and its underpinning concept of unjust enrichment is controversial. \nAs a matter of day-to-day practice, it is this framework which is routinely applied as the organising structure for the law. Nevertheless, practitioners frequently plead claims by reference to the old common counts. It is not yet possible to articulate the law without reference to these old categories. Whether it is desirable to do so remains a controversial question.\n\nThe first element of a claim is that a defendant is \"enriched\". This requirement distinguishes a claim in unjust enrichment from a claim in tort: the law of unjust enrichment is not concerned with compensation for loss, but rather with the restitution of gains.\n\nHistorically, the nature of one's claim differed depending upon the nature of the enrichment. For example, if the defendant had received money, the plaintiff would bring an action for money had and received. If the plaintiff had discharged a liability of the defendant by paying money to a third party, the plaintiff would bring an action for money paid to the defendant's use. If instead the defendant had received services or goods, the plaintiff would recover bring a quantum meruit or a quantum valebat, respectively. These were claims for the reasonable value of the services or goods. It is no longer necessary to plead one's form of action. Whilst lawyers often draft their claims by reference to this language, academic commentators tend to analyse the law without regard to such historical distinctions. In short, an 'enrichment' for the purposes of the modern law may include, amongst other things: (i) money; (ii) services; (iii) chattels; and (iv) the discharge of a liability to a third party.\n\nWhether a defendant has been enriched (and the proper valuation thereof) is determined objectively. Nevertheless, the law does take account of the defendant's autonomy. This is through the notion of 'subjective devaluation'. In effect, a defendant is entitled to say '\"I do not value the benefit as much as you claim I do\"' or even \"'I did not want that benefit at all; to me it is worthless\"'. The law respects this argument because it protects individual autonomy. The law nevertheless 'looks for its limitations and curbs its excesses'. A plaintiff can overcome subjective devaluation by demonstrating: \nThe principles relating to enrichment can be illustrated can be illustrated by the following cases. \n\nThe enrichment must have come at the 'expense' of the claimant. There are two particularly difficult issues:\n\nThe requirement that the enrichment be 'at the claimant's expense' distinguishes restitution for unjust enrichment from restitution for wrongs. In the former case, there must be a subtraction from the wealth of the claimant, at least in a notional sense. In the latter, there is no such requirement. For example, where a fiduciary receives a benefit in breach of the 'no profit' rule, the defaulting fiduciary will hold that property on constructive trust for the principal. In such a case, the principal will have a direct (proprietary) claim against the fiduciary to recover the benefit. It does not matter that the principal (claimant) had no prior proprietary interest in the benefit, nor even that the benefit would never have otherwise been received by the principal.\n\nIn the eyes of the law, there is nothing objectionable about being enriched at the expense of another. But the law will intervene when such enrichment is 'unjust'. The question of injustice is not at large. English law adopts an 'unjust factor' approach to the law of restitution for unjust enrichment. This means that a claimant must plead by reference to the various factors that the law recognises as 'unjust'.\n\nIn contrast to the English approach, most civil law jurisdictions adopt an 'absence of basis' analysis. On this view, a defendant's enrichment is 'unjustified' where there is no 'basis' for the defendant's receipt. An example of a 'basis' is where a defendant receives a benefit under a valid and subsisting contract. The difference is more than mere conceptual or semantic emphasis. Nevertheless, in the vast majority of cases, the outcome will be the same whether an 'unjust factor' or an 'absence of basis' approach is adopted.\n\nEnglish cases featuring general discussion on the question of injustice include:\n\nEstablishing that a defendant has received a benefit at the expense of the claimant in circumstances which are unjust gives rise to a prima facie right to restitution. In most cases, this is typically a personal right to the money value of the benefit conferred. Liability is strict: there is no need to prove any wrongdoing on the part of the defendant.\n\nThe question then becomes whether there is a relevant bar or whether the defendant has a valid defence. Defences to restitutionary claims is a broader topic than defences to actions in unjust enrichment. Examples of defences or bars to restitutionary claims include: \nNot all these defences are available to all restitutionary claims. The availability of a defence may turn on: whether a restitutionary claim is legal or equitable; whether a claim is for a personal or proprietary remedy; and whether the claim is brought under national or EU law.\n\nOutlined below are the 'unjust factors' which have been recognised (or proposed) within the English law of unjust enrichment. Some of these doctrines feature in the law of contract, where they are termed 'vitiating factors'. The applicable principles are not always the same, however.\n\nWhere one person pays money to another for a consideration which wholly fails, he or she may be entitled to restitution on the ground of total failure of consideration. Academic writing typically refers to this ground as \"failure of basis\".\n\n\"Consideration\" in this context does not bear its contractual meaning. This can be a particular source of confusion, given that the ground of restitution known as \"failure of consideration\" typically arises in contractual contexts.\n\nThe orthodox rule is that the failure of consideration must be \"total\". This means that the claimant must not have received any part of the bargained-for counter-performance; or, more accurately, that the defendant must not have commenced rendering performance. The total failure rule has been subject to persistent academic criticism. It is subject to several qualifications. In such cases, the claimant may still be entitled to restitution. Examples include:\n\nThe ground of restitution known as total failure of developed within the action for money had and received. That action was only available in respect of money claims. Where the claimant conferred a non-money benefit upon a defendant, the correct form of action was a \"quantum meruit\" (services) or \"quantum valebat\" (goods). It is tolerably clear that failure of consideration can now apply to non-money claims.\n\nFailure of consideration typically arises where a contract is \"ineffective\". This is not a term of art, but rather a useful tool for exposition. A contract may be ineffective for a number of reasons. Failure of consideration may arise:\nA benefit conferred upon another whilst labouring under a qualifying mistake gives rise to a \"prima facie\" claim for restitution of the benefit. Where one person pays money to another whilst labouring under a causative mistake of fact or law, he or she may be entitled to restitution on the ground of mistake. Restitution for a mistaken payment is widely regarded as the paradigm case of restitution for unjust enrichment.\n\nHistorically, the law took a highly restrictive approach to recovery for mistake. First, the law only recognised mistakes which related to a matter of fact, rather than law. This rule was judicially abandoned in 1999. Secondly, the mistake had to be a \"supposed liability\" mistake. This meant that the claimant must have laboured under the belief that he or she was under a legal obligation to pay. This rule has also been abandoned, though the implications of this remain unsettled.\n\nThe prevailing academic view (for which there is some support in the cases) is that mistake can be a ground of restitution for services.\n\n\n\n\nLegal compulsion is a proposed ground of restitution. It is said to explain the law relating to recoupment and contribution.\nWhether such claims are capable of being rationalised on the ground of unjust enrichment remains a controversial question.\n\n\n\nIf a claimant can establish that the defendant has been enriched at the claimant's expense in circumstances which are unjust, the claimant has a prima facie right to restitution. The question then becomes whether the claimant is entitled to a personal or a proprietary remedy.\n\nHistorically, the \"indebitatus\" counts only afforded a personal remedy. Hence where the claimant's action would have been brought as an action for money had and received, for money paid, or as a quantum meruit or quantum valebat, the claimant is only entitled to a money award. In short, an action for restitution of unjust enrichment only generates a \"personal\" liability: the claimant has no proprietary interest in any specific asset of the defendant.\n\nAcademic writers have sought to expand the explanatory power of 'unjust enrichment'. To this end, writers have suggested that the doctrine of subrogation forms part of the law of unjust enrichment. If correct, this would be an instance of unjust enrichment generating a proprietary remedy. English courts have accepted that the concept of unjust enrichment has a role to play in subrogation. The English approach has been stridently rejected by the High Court of Australia.\n\nAcademic writers such as Professor Birks and Professor Burrows have argued that claims to the traceable substitute of one's property are claims in unjust enrichment. This view has been rejected by the House of Lords. They instead held that such claims were a matter of vindicating property rights, a view long associated with Professor Virgo. Even if not (for the foreseeable future) a part of the law of unjust enrichment, a claim to the traceable proceeds of one's property remains part of the law of restitution. The remainder of this section concerns proprietary restitution. Proprietary restitution is where a claimant who is entitled to restitution is awarded a proprietary remedy.\n\n\n\nFollowing\n\nTracing\n\nMixing two claimants' money or money mixed with an innocent claimant\n\nBackwards tracing\nSwollen assets theory\n\n\n\nIt means that good value is given for receipt of assets without notice of breach of trust. It is a complete defence to any knowing receipt claim.\n\n\nAnother available defence is ministerial receipt, i.e. the recipient defendant receives the assets as agent for another.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3634951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3634951", "title": "Enviroboard", "text": "Enviroboard\n\nEnviroboard is a paper-like or cardboard-like construction and packaging material, generally manufactured using compressed, ecologically safe, agricultural material. Most often this means employing the use of high-cellulose waste fibres, such as the post-harvest straw of rice, barley, wheat, and elephant grass or alternatively, a more urban waste stream such as newspaper fibre.\n\nConstruction panels built from agricultural wastes have been around for hundreds of years, especially in Central and Eastern Europe where pressed leaves and straw were used as insulation and even structural material. Environmental board panels should not be confused with straw bale construction which does not process waste fibres into a compressed standardized board panel.\n\nThe concept of environmental construction panels dovetails with the principles of sustainability, namely reducing the impact that the entire life-cycle of constructing \"built environments\" has on the environment.\n\nThe Securities and Exchange Commission filed fraud charges against Enviroboard on 29 August 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38950777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38950777", "title": "Firearms legislation in Ireland", "text": "Firearms legislation in Ireland\n\nFirearms in Ireland are strictly controlled, both with strict legislation governing licensing and very conservative application of that legislation by the Gardaí (Irish Police). The legislation is quite difficult to follow because of the multiple overlapping Firearms Acts that define it, however the core principles are reasonably straightforward, requiring all firearms to be licensed individually and each applicant to have a good reason for having the firearm, a safe place in which to use it, a secure place in which to store it and to be of sound mind and temperate habits. \n\nThe Firearms Act, 1925 states that a legal licence is required by law to own or possess a firearm in the Irish Republic. Failure to adhere to the law may result in a monetary fines or imprisonment and can result in firearms being seized by An Gárda Síochána. The Firearms Act, 1925 also lists a number of groups which are prohibited from legally owning a firearm, these include those suffering from mental health issues, those under the age of fifteen years and those who are under the supervision of the police \n\nGun crime is rising steadily in Ireland as a result of the illicit drugs trade; this has resulted in extensive tightening of licensing legislation during the last decade over the protests of the shooting sports organisations.\n\nWith the exception of the recent rise in gun crime, politics in Ireland has not concerned itself very much with firearms since the Belfast Agreement. Firearms do not have widespread visibility in most of Irish life outside farming and the shooting sports.\n\nThere are a wide range of shooting sports in Ireland and a somewhat confusing array of shooting sports organisational bodies. The main entry points to the shooting sports remain family, college clubs and the Irish Pony Club (who run a tetrathlon event that involves shooting). Newer entry points including corporate shooting events and \"tryout days\" for events like Modern Pentathlon have appeared in recent years but have not yet eclipsed the more established channels.\n\nThere is no right to own firearms in Ireland.\n\nFirearms generally require a firearms certificate (commonly referred to as a licence) in Ireland, though several exceptions to this (such as couriers transporting firearms or people shooting at authorised fairground stalls or shooting ranges with club-owned firearms) are specified in sections 2(3) and 2(4) of the Firearms Act. To obtain a firearms certificate, applicants file a form with either their local Garda Superintendent (for unrestricted firearms) or to their local Garda Chief Superintendent (for restricted firearms). Once presented, the licensing person has three months in which to issue a grant or refusal of the certificate. If the licensing person does not communicate a decision to the applicant within the three months, the applicant is deemed to have been informed of a refusal. If a licence is refused, the applicant may appeal the decision to the local District Court, who are the final authority for licensing (while a District Court's decision may be appealed, the District Court itself must overturn the licensing person's decision should the appeal be successful). The certificate lasts three years from the date of issue.\n\nThe requirements the applicant must meet are set forth in section 4 of the Firearms Act and include, amongst others:\n\nNot everyone is eligible to apply for a firearms certificate; those not eligible to apply are set out in Section 8 of the Firearms Act and include:\n\nThe kinds of firearms which can be licensed in Ireland are governed by several different sections of law. EU law supersedes Irish law, but EU standards are far more relaxed than Irish ones so by and large the EU regulations do not come to the fore, except in the case of Category A firearms (the EU classification for automatic firearms) which are not licensable without direct permission from the Minister (which has never been given).\n\nIrish law has four categories for firearms:\n\nAirsoft replicas were only removed from the firearms category with the 2006 firearms act; prior to that there was no lower muzzle energy limit before an item was classifiable as a firearm. This created the unusual situation where the laws applying to everything from a Nerf dart gun to a 20mm anti-tank rifle were identical. Following 2006, a lower muzzle energy limit for airguns of 1 Joule was introduced (in contrast to the European norm of 7.5 Joules and the UK limit of 16.27 Joules (12 foot-pounds) for air rifles and 8.13 Joules (6 foot-pounds) for air pistols). Paintball markers remain legally classified as firearms in Ireland.\n\nProhibited firearms are defined in Section 1 of the firearms act as \"any weapon of whatever description designed for the discharge of any noxious liquid, noxious gas or other noxious thing, and also any ammunition (whether for any such weapon or any other weapon) which contains or is designed or adapted to contain any noxious liquid, noxious gas or other noxious thing\"; this is interpreted to include devices such as pepper spray.\n\nDifferentiation between Unrestricted and Restricted Firearms categories is done in the Firearms (Restricted Firearms and Ammunition) Order 2008 and the Firearms (Restricted Firearms and Ammunition) (Amendment) Order 2009. The differentiation between Unrestricted and Restricted firearms was done by creating a list of unrestricted firearms and deeming all other firearms to be restricted. This has led to some legislative oversights of note; for example, crossbows are legally restricted firearms in Ireland because at the time of the drafting of these Orders, nobody remembered to add them to the list of unrestricted firearms (crossbows were added to the category of firearms in Irish law with the 1990 firearms act, other forms of bow are not legally firearms in Ireland). Also, the majority of paintball markers are legally classified as Short Restricted Firearms in Ireland and as such cannot be legally licensed following the 2009 firearms act (and strictly speaking, significant jail sentences and fines could result from a prosecution).\n\nIt must also be borne in mind that the licensing person, whether that is the local Superintendent or the local Chief Superintendent, have significant powers in law with regard to licensing decisions and may impose preconditions he or she requires of an applicant before granting a licence so long as such preconditions are imposed on a case-by-case basis (blanket preconditions having been deemed beyond the legal authority of the licensing person by the Supreme Court ). The local Superintendent and local Chief Superintendent also have wide-ranging powers to revoke firearms certificates.\n\n\nThe Legal firearms are\n\nShooting ranges in Ireland must be granted both planning permission by the local county council and an authorisation under section 2(5) of the Firearms Act by the local Garda Superintendent. Since the 2009 firearms act, most shooting ranges are required by their local Superintendent to be inspected and certified by the Firearms Range Inspector under section 4A of the Firearms Act.\n\nThe Firearms Range Inspector is empowered by law to enter and search any place, building, dwelling or vehicle in Ireland if he suspects that target shooting is taking place at an unauthorised location.\n\nUnlike the UK system where a licence applies to a person and can list multiple firearms, in Ireland a firearms certificate applies to a specific firearm and not the person holding them, so owning several firearms requires several firearms certificates. This has complicated firearms statistics gathering; there is no publicly available figure for the total number of firearms owners in Ireland, for example. Prior to the computerisation of records in 2003, it would have required searching and comparing through over 220,000 paper records by hand to determine this figure; requests for this number made through Written Questions in the Dáil since 2003 have received the reply that it would take a disproportionate amount of manpower to discover the number ).\n\nDetailed statistics on makes, models and types of firearm beyond the rifle/pistol/shotgun and restricted/unrestricted categorisation are not generally maintained.\n\nIrish firearms law is based on several Firearms Acts, each of which amends those Acts which were issued previously. The initial Firearms (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1924 which was introduced as emergency legislation following the founding of the state, was replaced by the Firearms Act, 1925, which laid the foundations of the system of licensing that has continued unaltered until quite recently. Relatively small modifications were introduced in the Firearms Act, 1964, the Firearms (Proofing) Act, 1968, the Firearms Act, 1971, the Firearms and Offensive Weapons Act, 1990, the Firearms (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1998 and the Firearms (Firearm Certificates For Non-Residents) Act, 2000. By 2006, such was the confusion from these multiple Acts, each amending the others (and not all of which were ever actually commenced and thus were in the public record but not enforced as actual legislation); and the amendments of Irish firearms legislation by other Acts ranging from the Wildlife Acts (mostly relating to hunting law) to the Road Traffic Acts (relating to how and where firearms could be transported) and others; the large amount of secondary legislation (Statutory Instruments, which set out regulations, the design of application forms for licences and so forth, as well as the details of when various parts of the Acts came into force); as well as the introduction of EU firearms law into the canon of Irish legislation; led the Irish Law Reform Commission to recommend that all the extant legislation be \"restated\" a legal process by which all the existing primary and secondary legislation would be read as one and a single document produced as the new Firearms Act (and all prior Acts would be repealed).\n\nThe introduction of the Criminal Justice Act 2006, which contained an enormous rewrite of the Firearms Act, rewriting almost 80% of the Act completely. It was quickly followed by the Criminal Justice Act 2007 and the Criminal Justice (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2009, each of which amended all the preceding Firearms Acts. As of 2011, the Law Reform Commission recommendation still stands and has not as yet been acted upon; the Firearms Act consists of the initial 1925 Act amended by approximately eighteen separate Acts and is well understood by only a handful of those directly involved in its drafting, amendment or usage. Extensive complaints have arisen over the application of the legislation, with over seventy successfully prosecuted in the High Court by firearms owners by 2011. How much of this is due to the overly complicated nature of the legislation involved and the lack of formal training provided to Garda Superintendents in that legislation is unknown, but all of the cases which have been brought to court to date hinged on misinterpretations of the firearms act by one party or the other, and in one such case - McCarron-v-Kearney, the presiding judge stated \"I feel it necessary to add, however, that the piecemeal spreading over multiple pieces of legislation of the statutory rules for the control of firearms is undesirable. Codification in that area is almost as pressing a need as it is in the area of sexual violence.\"\n\nOver 168 judicial review cases were taken to the High Court between 2010 and 2013 in a protracted series of legal proceedings all relating to disputed licensing decisions. Three of these cases were taken as \"test cases\" by the Department of Justice (Irish court rules do not permit class action suits and so each case had to be considered separately), and policy with regard to firearms licences was to be determined based on the outcome of these cases, according to the Ministerial Briefing document for the newly elected Minister for Justice, Alan Shatter. In one of these three cases, it was discovered that a senior Garda officer had modified the application forms after the legal proceedings had begun; as a result all 168 cases were settled out of court.\n\nThe Minister retains the authority in law to issue a Temporary Custody Order, which compels all firearms certificate holders to turn their firearms over to the Gardaí for a period of up to three months.\n\nTarget shooting outside an authorised range in Ireland is a criminal offence. However the law does not contain a definition of target shooting, and thus certain activities (such as hunters zeroing rifles before hunting) technically breach this law but in practice the law is not enforced in these specific cases.\n\nOne of the most controversial events in the history of the Firearms Acts occurred in 1972. The Troubles in Northern Ireland (1970–1998) were becoming a security concern for the Irish government at the time, and in 1972 a Temporary Custody Order (S.I. No. 187/1972 – Firearms (Temporary Custody) Order, 1972) was issued for all privately held pistols and all rifles over .22 calibre to be surrendered to local Garda Síochána (police) stations by 5 August 1972, for a period of one month. This order was complied with, but when firearms owners returned to reclaim their firearms, they were informed that their licences had expired while their firearms were in custody (Irish firearms licences until 2008 were issued for a period of one year, and all licences were usually dealt with at the same time, usually at the start of August, though the date has changed over the years). Since the firearms were no longer licensed, they could not be returned until a new licence was issued; upon seeking a renewal of their licences, applicants were informed that a new Garda policy was in place that would refuse licence applications for all pistols and all firearms over .22 in calibre. As such, the firearms in Garda custody remained in Garda custody.\n\nThis situation continued until the late 1990s, when fullbore rifles of calibres up to .270 Winchester were permitted to be licensed for the purposes of deer hunting on humane grounds (prior to this, only the .22–250 cartridge was available for deer hunting and it was felt to be only barely capable of this task). All other firearms held in custody remained there, until the repeal of the Garda policy following a high court case in 2004 taken by Irish shooter Frank Brophy to obtain a licence for an Olympic target shooting pistol succeeded and the licence was granted. Following this, firearms held in storage by the Gardaí were reclaimed by those owners still alive or their descendants. As these pistols were never formally confiscated (and some were sold off by their owners and removed from Garda custody in that manner), no compensation was claimable by the owners.\n\nFollowing the Brophy case, some 300 pistols were licensed in Ireland, ranging from new Olympic air pistols (which are firearms under Irish law) to reclaimed pre-1972 pistols to new centerfire pistols. While welcomed by the target shooting community, in 2008 opposition deputies Jim Deasy and Olivia Mitchell campaigned to ban these pistols on the grounds that they could be used in crime. Despite multiple parliamentary questions from as early as 2005, where it was stated that there was no proof that this was happening, Minister Ahern announced a ban on all handguns in November 2008.\n\nThis ban was fought by the various governing bodies of shooting sports in Ireland, with the end result as of 2011 that air and small-bore pistols may still be licensed in Ireland, but all centerfire pistols not licensed prior to 17 November 2008 cannot be licensed.\n\nFollowing the introduction of the Criminal Justice Act 2006 and its extensive and complex rewriting of the Firearms Act, the Minister for Justice at the time (Michael McDowell) instituted the Firearms Consultation Panel, a panel chaired by the Minister through the Principal Officer of the Department of Justice, Equality and Law Reform's Firearms Section, which comprised representatives from the Gardaí, Department of Sport, firearms dealers, all the national governing bodies of the shooting sports, and other stakeholders in the Firearms Act (such as insurance providers). This panel met from 2006 through 2011 to attempt to implement the changes in the 2006 Act (and later the 2007 and 2009 Acts) where possible, and to attempt to alter the Acts where they were unworkable by providing expert advice to the Department in the drafting of new legislation amendments. With the election of a new Minister, the FCP is in the process of being wound down, despite campaigning to extend its terms of reference to make it a permanent advisory panel.\n\n"}
{"id": "27690269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27690269", "title": "GAC Toyota", "text": "GAC Toyota\n\nGAC Toyota Motor Co., Ltd. () is an automobile manufacturing company headquartered in Guangzhou, China and a joint-venture between GAC Group and Toyota Motor Company. It was founded on 1 September 2004.\n\nAs of 2009, the company had a 320,001 units-per-year production capacity at a Nansha District production base and had established a target production capacity of 500,000, which by now may have been achieved. Such figures may consider engines and whole vehicles discrete.\n\nThe company was founded in 2004, and began production in May 2006 with the Aurion-based Camry model. The company began producing the Yaris in May 2008, the Highlander SUV in May 2009, the Camry Hybrid in April 2010, the E’Z in June 2011 and the Levin in July 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "1302538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1302538", "title": "Government operations", "text": "Government operations\n\nThis article aims to describe the extent of operations and processes of governments around the world at all levels. \n\nThe scale to which government should exist and operate in the world is a matter of debate. Government spending in developed countries varies considerably but generally makes up between about 30% and 70% of their GDP. One major exception is the United States, where central government spending takes up less than 20% of GDP, although the combined spending of all administrations reach 36%.\n\nGovernment agencies may produce services like:\n\nGovernment agencies may produce goods like:\n\nAt the level of local government, territorial or other authorities may set up government corporations such as \"Local Authority Trading Enterprises\" (LATEs).\n\nIn monarchical commonwealth countries country-wide government corporations often use the style \"crown corporation\". Notable exceptions include both the state-owned enterprises and the crown entities in New Zealand. Examples of crown corporations include the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) in Canada and Air Canada before it underwent privatisation. Cabinet ministers (ministers of the crown) often control the shares in such public corporations.\n\nFor partial government employment statistics, see List of largest United Kingdom employers.\n\nIn the United States, businesses that are government owned include Amtrak and the United States Postal Service. Many states have government owned businesses for operations as well. Generally speaking, a statute passed by a legislature specifically sets up a government owned company in order to undertake a specific public purpose with public funds or public property.\n\nFor employment statistics, see List of largest employers in the United States.\n\nPrivatization is the transfer of ownership from the public sector (government) to the private sector (business).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51851542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51851542", "title": "Grainger v. State", "text": "Grainger v. State\n\nGrainger v. State (1830) is a Tennessee case, known as the timid hunter case, which significantly increased the right of violent self defense in the United States. The court denied the duty to retreat when a hunter fled rather than stand his ground, scathingly referring to a hunter as a \"timid, cowardly man\".\n"}
{"id": "41049986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41049986", "title": "HIV Organ Policy Equity Act", "text": "HIV Organ Policy Equity Act\n\nThe HIV Organ Policy Equity Act (the HOPE Act) is a law that modifies rules regarding organ donation between HIV-positive individuals. The law authorizes clinical research and the revision of rules about organ donation and transportation as a result of the research. Organs from HIV donors would only be going to individuals who are already HIV positive, but could lead to 600 additional organ transplants a year. The use of HIV-positive organs was previously a federal crime. This bill passed the United States Senate during the 113th United States Congress, and also passed the United States House of Representatives. It was signed into law as PL 113-51 by President Barack Obama on November 21, 2013.\n\nThe HIV Organ Policy Equity Act revises the Organ Transplant Amendments Act of 1988, a decades-old law that prevented patients from receiving organs from HIV positive people. Today's HIV positive patients are healthy, live longer and many are in need to give and receive organ transplants. The changes proposed by the HIV Organ Policy Equity Act enables this, thus shortening organ transplant wait times. This would also shorten the wait times for people without HIV as more HIV positive patients receive organs.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\"\n\nThe HIV Organ Policy Equity Act amends the Public Health Service Act to repeal the requirement that the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network adopt and use standards of quality for the acquisition and transportation of donated organs that include standards for preventing the acquisition of organs infected with the etiologic agent for acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).\n\nThe bill replaces this requirement with authorization for the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network to adopt and use such standards with respect to organs infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), provided that any such standards ensure that organs infected with HIV may be transplanted only into individuals who are: (1) infected with such virus before receiving such an organ; and (2) participating in clinical research approved by an institutional review board under the criteria, standards, and regulations regarding organs infected with HIV developed under this Act or, if participation in such research is no longer warranted, receiving a transplant under such standards and regulations.\n\nThe bill would revise similarly the requirement that organ procurement organizations arrange for testing to prevent the acquisition of organs infected with the AIDS etiologic agent to require that they arrange for testing to identify organs infected with HIV.\n\nThe bill directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop and publish guidelines for the conduct of research relating to transplantation of organs from HIV-infected donors.\n\nThe bill also requires the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network to revise its standards of quality regarding HIV-infected organs and the Secretary to revise related regulations.\n\nThe bill requires the Secretary to: (1) review annually the results of scientific research in conjunction with the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network to determine whether they warrant revision of quality standards relating to donated HIV-infected organs and to the safety of transplantation of organs with a particular strain of HIV into a recipient with a different strain; and (2) direct the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network, if the review so warrants, to revise its standards in a way that ensures the changes will not reduce the safety of organ transplantation.\n\nFinally, the bill amends the federal criminal code to declare that an organ donation does not violate the prohibition against a knowing organ donation by an HIV-infected individual if the donation is made in accordance with this Act.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Budget Office, as ordered reported by the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions on March 20, 2013. This is a public domain source.\"\n\nS. 330 amends provisions of the Public Health Service Act that authorize the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish guidelines and quality standards for conducting research relating to donated organs and for acquiring and procuring such organs.\n\nThe bill removes a provision in current law that prohibits the acquisition and procurement of donated organs that are infected with the virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome. S. 330 also requires the Secretary of HHS to develop guidelines for conducting research relating to organ transplants from donors who are infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The Secretary is required to annually review the results of the research to determine whether the results warrant revising the quality standards for acquiring and procuring donated organs. Finally, the bill authorizes the Secretary to establish standards for acquiring and procuring donated organs that are infected with HIV, provided that any such standards ensure that an organ infected with HIV may be transplanted only into individuals who are infected with HIV before receiving such organ.\n\nTo implement S. 330, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated that HHS would incur administrative costs of less than $500,000 annually and about $1 million over the 2014-2018 period. Any such costs would be subject to the availability of appropriated funds. Pay-as-you-go procedures do not apply to this legislation because it would not affect direct spending or revenues.\n\nThe bill contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act.\n\nThe HIV Organ Policy Equity Act was introduced into the Senate on February 14, 2013 by Sen. Barbara Boxer (D, CA). It was referred to the United States Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. On June 17, 2013, the Senate voted by unanimous consent to pass the bill.\n\nThe HIV Organ Policy Equity Act was received in the United States House of Representatives on June 18, 2013. It was referred to the United States House Committee on Energy and Commerce, the United States House Energy Subcommittee on Health, the United States House Committee on the Judiciary, and the United States House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations. On November 8, 2013, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor announced that the HIV Organ Policy Equity Act would be considered under a suspension of the rules on the House floor on November 12, 2013.\n\nThe Human Rights Campaign was in favor of the bill. According to the Human Rights Campaign, \"the Act is supported by dozens of organizations that advocate on transplant policy and communities with an increased need for transplantation, including: AIDS United, amfAR, American Medical Association, American Society for Nephrology, Association of Organ Procurement Organizations, American Society of Transplantation, American Society of Transplant Surgeons, Dialysis Patient Citizens, HIV Medicine Association, and United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS).\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19773868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19773868", "title": "Hague Adoption Convention", "text": "Hague Adoption Convention\n\nThe Hague Convention on Protection of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption (or Hague Adoption Convention) is an international convention dealing with international adoption, child laundering, and child trafficking in an effort to protect those involved from the corruption, abuses, and exploitation which sometimes accompanies international adoption. The Convention has been considered crucial because it provides a formal international and intergovernmental recognition of intercountry adoption to ensure that adoptions under the Convention will generally be recognized and given effect in other party countries.\n\nThe preamble to the Convention states:\n\nThe main objectives of the Convention, are set out in Article 1:\n\nThe Convention was developed by the Hague Conference on Private International Law, the preeminent organization in the area of private international law. It was concluded on 29 May 1993 and entered into force on 1 May 1995. As of July 2016, the Convention has been ratified by 96 states. South Korea, Nepal, and Russia have signed but not ratified it. Many countries which have not ratified the Convention do not permit foreign adoptions of their children nor adoptions of foreign children.\n\nWith respect to the previous multilateral instruments which include some provisions regarding intercountry adoption, the Hague Adoption Convention is the major multilateral instrument regulating international adoption and calls for the need for co-ordination and direct co-operation between countries to ensure that appropriate safeguards are respected.\n\nThe Hague Adoption Convention has several requirements. The adoption process includes establishing a \"Central Authority\" to serve as the country's primary contact in adoption processes; satisfying several checks for a child eligible for adoption, including verifying the propriety of the adoption under the laws of both countries; and making a reasonable prior effort to facilitate a domestic adoption agreeing to use only certified adoption agencies.\n\nArticle III outlines the responsibilities that the entire process must be authorized by central adoption authorities designated by the contracting states. If fully implemented at the national level, the Convention offers a protective framework against the potential risks of private adoption (when the adoptive parents set the terms of the adoption directly with the biological parents or with children's institutions placed in the country of origin, without recurring to accredited adoption service providers).\n\n\"The Implementation and Operation of the 1993 Intercountry Adoption Convention: Guide to Good Practice\", prepared by HCCH, provides assistance to the operation, use and interpretation of the Convention.\n\nTo comply with international standards, many changes have been introduced in national legislation enacting laws to criminalize the act of obtaining improper gains from international adoptions. However, instances of trafficking in and sale of children for the purpose of adoption continue to take place in many parts of the world. In the fiscal year of 2006, the Department of State Office of Children's Issues assisted in the return to the United States of 260 children who had been abducted to or wrongfully retained from other countries and 171 children were returned from countries that are Convention partners with the United States. Especially during emergency situations, natural disasters or conflicts, children are observed to be adopted without strict legal procedures being followed, with a risk that there may be cases of child trafficking. An excessive bureaucratization of the adoption process after the implementation of the Hague Adoption Convention has been noted to establishing possible additional barriers to the placement of children.\n"}
{"id": "20533773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20533773", "title": "Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968", "text": "Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968\n\nIndian Civil Rights Act of 1968 applies to the Indian tribes of the United States and makes many, but not all, of the guarantees of the Bill of Rights applicable within the tribes. The Act appears today in Title 25, sections 1301 to 1303 of the United States Code.\n\nThe H.R. 2516 legislation was passed by the 90th U.S. Congressional session and endorsed by the 36th President of the United States Lyndon Johnson on April 11, 1968.\n\nThe US Supreme Court had made clear that tribal internal affairs concerning tribal members' individual rights were not covered by the Fifth Amendment to the US constitution. However, the tribes were ultimately subjected to the power of Congress and the Constitution. The court case \"Talton v. Mayes\" helped establish the principles. There were other court cases over the following years to continue the thoughts \"that tribes were not arms of the federal government when punishing tribal members for criminal acts and that Indian tribes were exempt from many of the constitutional protections governing the actions of state and federal governments\".\n\nLater, in the 1960s, Congress held a series of hearings on the subject of the authority of tribal governments. These hearings told about the abuses that many tribal members had endured from the \"sometimes corrupt, incompetent, or tyrannical tribal officials\". In response, the Indian Civil Rights Act was enacted.\n\nNo Indian tribe in exercising powers of self-government shall—\n\nAccording to the US Government Publishing Office, in \"imprisonment for a term of one year and a fine of $5,000, or both\" in paragraph 7, \"and\" should probably be \"or\".\n\nThe act also requires tribal courts to afford due process and other civil liberties. Also, Native American courts try to provide a setting similar to that of a US courtroom, which is familiar to lawyers. That aided the attorneys, and it helped divert non-Indian ridicule and established the view that tribal courts were legitimate courts. Tribal courts adopted rules of evidence, pleading, and other requirements similar to those in state and federal courts.\n\nThe ICRA incorporated many constitutional protections but it modified others or did not include them at all. \"The law did not impose the establishment clause, the guarantee of a republican form of government, the requirement of a separation of church and state, the right to a jury trial in civil cases, or the right of indigents to appointed counsel in criminal cases.\" The provisions were excluded because the government recognized the different political and cultural status of the tribes.\n\nEven though the federal government respected their individuality in this respect, the establishment of the ICRA caused the tribal governments to \"mirror\" modern American courts and procedures.\n\nThe impact of ICRA was greatly limited by the Supreme Court by the \"Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez\" court case (1978). \"Martinez\" involved a request to stop denying tribal membership to those children born to female (not male) tribal members who married outside of the tribe. The mother who brought the case pleaded that the discrimination against her child was solely based on sex, which violated the ICRA. The courts decided that \"tribal common-law sovereign immunity prevented a suit against the tribe.\" \"Martinez\" ultimately strengthened tribal self-determination by further proving that generally, the federal government played no enforcement role over the tribal governments.\n"}
{"id": "406359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=406359", "title": "Japan–Australia Migratory Bird Agreement", "text": "Japan–Australia Migratory Bird Agreement\n\nThe Japan Australia Migratory Bird Agreement (JAMBA) is a treaty between Australia and Japan to minimise harm to the major areas used by birds which migrate between the two countries. JAMBA was first developed on February 6, 1974 and came into force on April 30, 1981.\n\nJAMBA provides for cooperation between Japan and Australia on measures for the management and protection of migratory birds, birds in danger of extinction, and the management and protection of their environments, and requires each country to take appropriate measures to preserve and enhance the environment of birds protected under the provisions of the agreement. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "35002270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35002270", "title": "Law and Contemporary Problems", "text": "Law and Contemporary Problems\n\nLaw and Contemporary Problems is a quarterly, interdisciplinary, faculty-edited publication of Duke University School of Law. Unlike traditional law reviews, \"L&CP\" uses a symposium format, generally publishing one symposium per issue on a topic of contemporary concern. \"L&CP\" hosts an annual conference at Duke Law School featuring the authors of one of the year’s four symposia.\n\nEstablished in 1933, \"L&CP\" is the oldest journal published at Duke University School of Law.\n\n"}
{"id": "25266477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25266477", "title": "List of people who entered an Alford plea", "text": "List of people who entered an Alford plea\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of notable individuals that have entered an Alford plea. An Alford plea (also referred to as Alford guilty plea and Alford doctrine) in the law of the United States is a guilty plea in criminal court, where the defendant does not admit the act and asserts innocence. Under the Alford plea the defendant admits that sufficient evidence exists with which the prosecution could likely convince a judge or jury to find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.\n\nThis form of plea is derived from the 1970 ruling by the Supreme Court of the United States, in the case \"North Carolina v. Alford\". Henry Alford of Forsyth County, North Carolina was indicted for first degree murder in 1963. At the time under North Carolina law a conviction of first degree murder automatically brought with it the death penalty, unless the jury recommended otherwise, in which case the defendant would receive a mandatory life sentence. Alford said he was innocent, but the prosecution had significant evidence to the contrary. Witnesses stated Alford had said he wanted to kill the victim, then grabbed his gun and left his residence. Witnesses said that Alford subsequently declared he had killed the victim. His defense advised Alford to plead to the crime of second degree murder because of the belief that the strong evidence would lead to a conviction. He pleaded guilty to second degree murder in 1963. He did so in order to avoid a possible death sentence. Alford maintained he was innocent of the crime itself, but feared going to trial because of the capital punishment associated with the charge of first degree murder. He was given a sentence of thirty years in jail.\n\nAlford appealed, and argued that his conviction for second degree murder should be overturned because he said the plea was coercive in nature. The matter came before the Supreme Court, and in its ruling the court said that the trial judge in Alford's criminal case was appropriate in having accepted the defendant's plea of guilty. The Court said that the decision to plead guilty while maintaining his innocence was a reasonable choice for Alford to have made at the time. Supreme Court Justice Byron White wrote the majority opinion. The Supreme Court case was decided 5–3. \"[T]hat he would not have pleaded except for the opportunity to limit the possible penalty does not necessarily demonstrate that the plea of guilty was not the product of a free and rational choice\", said the Supreme Court decision. The Court ruled that a plea of guilty that was \"a voluntary and intelligent choice among the alternative courses of action\" was not a coercive decision. Justice White wrote that, \"Express admission of guilt is not constitutional requisite to imposition of criminal penalty.\" In 1975, Alford died while in jail at the age of 57.\n\nWhen a defendant indicates an intention to plead guilty by Alford plea, the judge asks two questions: \"Do you now consider it to be in your best interest to plead guilty?\" and \"Do you understand that upon your 'Alford plea' you will be treated as being guilty whether or not you admit that you are in fact guilty?\" Prosecutors and defense lawyers characterize Alford pleas as a required method of lessening pressure of the nature of the justice process. Both parties get to maneuver around not knowing what the outcome could be at trial, and are able to come to a resolution. The Alford plea does not itself affect the sentencing process, and the convicted individual is sentenced just as if he had entered a normal guilty plea. The defendant may be hurt at the sentencing process by having used an Alford plea, as the judge may see this as a sign that the defendant has not accepted responsibility for his actions. Duke University law professor Robert P. Mosteller commented on this possible effect at sentencing, \"They get you more harm than good.\" Orange County, North Carolina District Attorney Jim Woodall said that the frequency of Alford pleas is higher with criminal cases involving a charge of a sexual offense, as the defendant does not wish to admit to their family and the public that they were responsible for the crime. Psychologist Bob Carbo noted that sexual offenders undergoing treatment for their actions after being ordered to so under terms of their Alford plea cause problems because the first step in therapy is to take responsibility for committing the crime. \"We can't help this person if they're not willing to admit they did something\", said Carbo.\n\nJohn Gulash, a lawyer on the Connecticut State Bar Association's criminal justice executive committee, acknowledged, \"It's unfortunate, but it's a reality that you will receive, in most instances, a much more severe penalty if you lost after trial than if you pled before the trial.\" Defendants gain the potential benefit of being able to tell possible employers after their conviction in a crime that they maintained their innocence and only pleaded guilty under the Alford doctrine because of the nature of the situation and the evidence presented. Professor of law at Quinnipiac University and former federal prosecutor Jeffrey Meyer said of the Alford doctrine, \"It's part of an idealist vision of a judicial system that it is for the adjudication of truth.\" Meyer commented on what would happen were the Alford doctrine to become no longer applicable, \"My suspicion is if the state could dispense with the Alford doctrine, over time, it probably wouldn't change very much the rate at which cases plead out. More than 95 percent of cases in federal court go by guilty plea. It's difficult to make the case that without the Alford doctrine, there would be an immense number of defendants who would end up going to trial.\" Raleigh, North Carolina lawyer Wade Smith said that the frequency of application of the Alford plea is, \"Fairly often. There are many times when people don't want to plead guilty, but then do, in fact, plead guilty.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26908594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26908594", "title": "Marckx v Belgium", "text": "Marckx v Belgium\n\nMarckx v. Belgium (application No. 6833/74) was a case decided by the European Court of Human Rights in 1979.\n\nMs. Paula Marckx, being unmarried, gave birth to a daughter in 1973. Under Belgian law, no legal bond between an unmarried mother and her child resulted from the mere fact of birth. To create the bond, the mother had either to recognise maternity in specific proceedings or to adopt the child. In both cases, the child's inheritance rights remained less than those a child born in marriage received automatically.\n\nThe Court held that there had been breaches of:\n\n\nand no breach of Article 1 of Protocol No. 1, taken alone. The Court awarded no compensation to the applicants.\n\nJudges Balladore Pallieri, Pedersen, Ganshof van der Meersch, Evrigenis, Pinheiro Farinha and García de Enterría filed a joint dissent concerning refusal of compensation.\n\nJudges O’Donoghue, Thór Vilhjálmsson, Fitzmaurice, Bindschedler-Robert, Matscher and Pinheiro Farinha filed separate dissents concerning various points of the judgment.\n\nIn 1987, Belgium has amended its Civil Code, and in 1988, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe decided that Belgium has exercised its functions under Article 54 of the Convention in this case.\n\nGoldbacher M. D. \"A People's History of the European Court of Human Rights\". 2007. . pp. 15-25\n\n"}
{"id": "7017060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7017060", "title": "Midway Manufacturing Co. v. Artic International, Inc.", "text": "Midway Manufacturing Co. v. Artic International, Inc.\n\nMidway Manufacturing Co. v. Artic International, Inc., 704 F.2d 1009 (7th Cir. 1983), is a court case in which the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois held that aspects of a video arcade game were copyrightable even though the images that appeared on the screen were transient. The case was affirmed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.\n\nThe plaintiff, Midway Manufacturing sued defendant Artic International, Inc. for allegedly infringing copyrights on two of its video arcade games, Pac-Man and Galaxian. Artic was accused of infringing for sale of a \"speed-up kit\", consisting of a separate set of ROM chips, that would modify the Galaxian game. Midway also challenged Artic for producing the circuit board for a video game called \"Puckman.\" Artic's defense was that Midway's video games were not \"fixed in any tangible medium of expression,\" as required for copyright protection under U.S. law. Specifically, Artic claimed that the ROM chips in the Midway games never held pictures in any fixed medium, but rather contained instructions to generate pictures that were not themselves fixed. Additionally, Artic pointed to legislative history wherein a Committee Report said that \"evanescent or transient reproductions . . . shown electronically on [a screen] or captured momentarily in the 'memory' of a computer\" were not protected under the definition of \"fixation\" as required for copyrightability.\n\nDistrict Judge Bernard Decker ruled against Artic, noting that the law does not require work to be written down in the exact way that it is perceived by the human eye. The judge was persuaded by Midway's demonstrations, showing that the images in the games' demo (\"attract\") modes repeated identically every time the games were turned on. The games also repeated in similar ways during subsequent plays. The court likewise rejected Artic's legislative history argument, finding that the discussion only meant to exclude images on TV or computer screens like live broadcasts that were not recorded or fixed elsewhere (e.g., on a memory chip or videotape) such that they could be reproduced.\n\nThe court granted Midway's motion for preliminary injunction.\n\nThis case illustrates a challenge for understanding the concept of \"fixation\" in copyright law.\n\nAfter \"Midway\", the U.S. Copyright Office stopped allowing videogame manufacturers to register the display as an \"audiovisual work\" and the computer program as a \"literary work.\" Now the registrant must choose which of the two aspects of the game are most prominent and only file as one type of work.\n"}
{"id": "51308924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51308924", "title": "Ministère public (France)", "text": "Ministère public (France)\n\nIn French law, the ministère public or le parquet is the authority charged with defending the interests of society and of the application of law. It is primarily made up of magistrates, but is sometimes represented by other persons such as police officials. Its magistrates can be referred to as \"standing\" magistrates, as opposed to \"magistrats du siège\" (magistrates of the seat). Its closest equivalent in some English-speaking countries is the (office of the) director of public prosecutions and the attorney general in others.\n\nThe term \"ministère public\" translates literally as \"public ministry\" and that institution can exercise a public action (action publique) in penal infractions that cause a disturbance of the ordre public, and can also initiate prosecutions or non-prosecutions. It can intervene in all jurisdictions of the judiciary, but has never really exercised the same role in the administrative areas, except for financial venues (\"juridictions financières\").\n\nIn France, \"the ministère public\" (in the person of an Attorney-general, a \"procureur de la République\" or one of his \"substituts\" or representatives) is designated as \"le parquet\" in legal jargon. The word \"parquet\" itself may have stemmed from the Old French, where it meant a \"small park or enclosure\". The term \"\"parquet\" goes back to the medieval expression \"parquet des Gens du Roi\"\". The origin of this use and meaning of the word is not known with certainty, but the most probable hypothesis is that these magistrates were separated from the magistrates \"du siège\" in a sort of \"park\".\n\nThe location of the \"ministère public\" has been called the \"parquet\" because in the Great Chamber (la Grand-Chambre) of Paris the enclosure delimited on three sides by the seats of judges and on the fourth by a barre or handrail, this heart of the room, a closed and dedicated space,(sacré), a small parc or parquet, that the people of the king (les gens du roi) crossed to take their places and where the \"gens d'armes\", gendarmes, came forward to relate the findings of their investigations, to erect (en dresser) the \"procès-verbal\".\n\nThe name \"standing magistracy\" (\"magistrature debout\"), comes from the fact that \"ministère public\" magistrates formerly stood to speak, notably when \"prenant les réquisitions\", asking for a sentence, unlike the \"magistrats du siège\", magistrates of the seat, who remained seated for the entire hearing.\n\nThe \"ministère public\" first appears as a concept at the end of the 18th century, when the kings of France caused their interests to be defended by procureurs, or prosecutors, who little by little put themselves exclusively at the service of the kings. The \"parquet\" modeled itself little by little with \"procureurs\", prosecutors, \"avocats\", lawyers and \"substituts\", designations which remain in contemporary French justice.\n\nPrior to the French Revolution, the \"ministère public\" was embodied by officers called the Gens du roi (King's men), so that the Attorney-General of the king was the key role of the parlements of the Ancien Régime.\n\nThe question of whether to keep the \"ministère public\" arose at the time of the Revolution, but this was resolved in the affirmative by the law of the 16th and 24 August 1790, notably in article 8 of title II. The First Republic reprised the idea as the \"accusateur public\", or public accuser. Until 1970, jurisdictions existed which had a \"parquet\", in general the penal jurisdictions and the civil common law jurisdictions, and jurisdictions with no \"parquet\" existed as well, the \"juridictions d'exception non répressives\" such as the council \"de prud'hommes\" for example. Article 3 of law n 70-613, the law of the 10th of July 1970, authorised the prosecutor of the Republic to exercise public action before all first degree jurisdictions\n\nThe drive to install a \"ministère public\" before administrative jurisdictions other than the Cour des comptes was translated by the ordinances of February 2 and March 12, 1831, which created the function of \"government commissioner\" before the Conseil d'État. Not until 1862 were government commissioners introduced to \"les conseils de préfecture\". Given that administrative justice works differently, the absence of hierarchy between the commissioners and a more rapid passage from the function of « commissaire du gouvernement » to that of judge, these persons never really exercised the role d'un ministère public, except in comparison to a public minister (ministère public) of the Cour de cassation The government rebaptized \"rapporteurs publics\" in 2009.\n\nOne of the specifics of the parquet is that it is indivisible: each member represents the whole and the members are thus interchangeables. Any action by a member commits the entire \"parquet\". In a trial, the magistrates of the parquet may mutually replace one another without stopping the proceedings, which is forbidden to the magistrates \"du siège\" results in their case of nullity of the judgment.\n\nAnother specific is the non-responsibility of the \"parquet\"; a magistrate of the \"parquet\" is responsible only for his own mistakes but cannot be assigned court costs as another plaintiff might after losing a trial. He cannot be prosecuted for either injury or defamation caused by what he says in a hearing. Personal faults tied to public service can on the other hand be prosecuted by virtue of the State's power of recourse, but only in front of the civil chamber of the Cour de cassation.\n\nThe magistrates who compose it are the same as those of the \"siège\" (chair). Generally a magistrate, in the course of his career, will carry out the functions of the chair as well as of the \"parquet\".\n\n\nIts composition varies with the jurisdiction:\n\nThe role of the \"ministère public\", which is to defend the interests of society, the public order and the application of the law, is exercised in three areas: an \"action publique\" before a penal jurisdiction, an \"intervention\" before a civil jurisdiction, and the \"attributions administratives\".\n\nHe represents the interests of society and to do so he exercises an \"action publique\" (in other words prosecution as the plaintiff, intervening in the trial as a principal party). He can act both in the \"instruction\" and the judgment phases.\n\nThe services of the police judiciaire (PJ), or judicial police, are at the disposal of the \"ministère public\" for seeking out infractions, which allows him to decide whether or not to set off the \"action publique\".\n\nIn common law administrative jurisdictions (i.e. as opposed to specialised administrative jurisdictions), \"commissaires du gouvernement\" (government commissioners) existed, and were loosely related to the judiciary's \"ministère public\", albeit their functions were closer to giving a general opinion on legal matters pertaining a case rather than actively defending the interests of society of the government, despite their name. Their transformation into \"rapporteurs publics\" in 2009 confirmed that they were not of the same nature as the \"ministère public\". Furthermore, \"Rapporteurs public\" has been confirmed to be fully independent and impartial in their functions.\n\nArticle 6 of the law of February 4, 1850 bearing on the organisation of the \"tribunal des conflits\" provides that the functions of the \"ministère public\" will be filled by two commissioners of the government chosen every year by the President of the Republic, one from among the \"maîtres des requêtes\" on the State Council (Conseil d'État), the other from the \"parquet\" of the Cour de cassation. Le tribunal ne peut statuer qu'après avoir entendu les conclusions du commissaire du gouvernement (art. 4 de la loi). Si le rapporteur appartient au Conseil d'État, alors le commissaire du gouvernement doit être un magistrat de la Cour de cassation, et réciproquement (art. 7 de la loi).\n\nThe \"parquet\" is not considered an independent judicial authority in the meaning of article 5 of the \"Convention de Sauvegarde des Droits de l’Homme et des Libertés Fondamentales\". The European court for the rights of man condemned France in November 2010 for having conferred on it jurisdictional functions.\n\nIn 2013 the law was again modified, eliminating the oral instructions transmitted par the \"Chancellerie\" to prosecutors.\n\nAt the same time the European Court of Human Rights confirmed in a new verdict on June 27, 2013, \"Vassis et al vs France\", that the French \"parquet\" cannot be considered a judicial authority in the sense of article 5§3 of the Convention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6906103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6906103", "title": "Parliament (Qualification of Women) Act 1918", "text": "Parliament (Qualification of Women) Act 1918\n\nThe Parliament (Qualification of Women Act) 1918 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It gave women over 21 the right to stand for election as an MP. It did not alter the minimum age for a woman to vote in an election, which had been 30 since the Representation of the People Act 1918. It was not until the Representation of the People (Equal Franchise) Act 1928 that women were given the vote on equal terms with men, at the age of 21.\n\nAt 27 words it is the shortest UK statute.\n\nThe Representation of the People Act 1918, passed on 6 February 1918, gave about 8.4 million women the vote, and it led to the Parliament (Qualification of Women) Act being passed. In the 1918 election to the House of Commons, seventeen women candidates stood to be elected, among them well-known suffragette Christabel Pankhurst, representing the Women's Party in Smethwick. However the only woman to be elected was the Sinn Féin candidate for Dublin St. Patrick's, Constance Markievicz. Following the popular Irish political policy of abstentionism, she chose not to take her seat at Westminster and instead sat in Dáil Éireann (the First Dáil) in Dublin. The first woman to take her seat in the House of Commons was Nancy Astor on December 1, 1919. She was elected as a Coalition Conservative MP for Plymouth Sutton on November 28, 1919, taking the seat her husband had previously vacated.\n\nAs Members of Parliament, women also gained the right to become government ministers. The first woman to become a cabinet minister and Privy Council member was Margaret Bondfield who was Minister of Labour in the Second MacDonald ministry (1929–1931).\n\nDuring the debate of the bill, Lord Islington explained the apparent discrepancy that women could sit in Parliament at 21 but could not vote until they were 30:\n\n\"...the age of thirty, which was prescribed for enfranchisement of women, was made not because women of a younger age were considered less competent to exercise the vote, but rather because the inclusion of women between the ages of twenty-one and thirty might lead to women-voters being in a majority on the Register, and this was considered, too drastic a departure in the realms of constitutional experiment. Therefore the embargo on any woman below the age of thirty was placed in that measure.\n\nIn the case of eligibility to Parliament, this age condition is not necessary. The whole question of age, suitability, and competence can safely be left, and should be left, in the hands of the electorate to decide...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58508651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58508651", "title": "Penington Institute", "text": "Penington Institute\n\nThe Penington Institute is a public health research and drug policy organization based in Carlton, Victoria, Australia.\n\nThe Institute produces an annual report on Australian overdose deaths. The 2018 report showed that deaths from overdoses, mostly from opioids, had increased across the country consistently since 2003, and significantly outnumbered deaths on the road. Figures are produced detailing deaths for individual areas.\n\nThe Institute initiated International Overdose Awareness Day in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "1681609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1681609", "title": "Police prosecutor", "text": "Police prosecutor\n\nIn certain jurisdictions, police prosecutors are employed by the police, as counsel for the prosecution, to present cases in court.\n\nIn Australia, all States and Territories (other than the Australian Capital Territory) employ Police Prosecutors to work in their summary courts. These police prosecutors are almost exclusively sworn police officers who are trained to act as advocates in summary criminal prosecutions. In Western Australia the police prosecutors work in concert with that state's Director of Public Prosecutions. Some police prosecutors hold legal qualifications; however, this is not a requirement to perform the role.\n\nIn the judicial system of New Zealand, a police prosecutor is a lawyer employed by the police to present cases in District Court, as the counsel for the prosecution. This may be a sworn member of the police (normally a sergeant) or, in larger courts, a civilian lawyer employed as a non-sworn member of the police. In smaller courts, the police prosecutors will normally consist entirely of sworn officers, while in larger courts a combination of sworn and non-sworn prosecutors will be employed.\n\nOther jurisdictions may use the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions or a similar body to provide prosecution counsel for a case from the very outset.\n"}
{"id": "5903160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5903160", "title": "R v Hay", "text": "R v Hay\n\nR v Hay (1860) 2 Foster and Finlaison 4, was an English case that was cited by the \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" as a challenge to the conventional view of priest-penitent privilege in the UK.\n\nThe case was tried before Mr. Justice Hill at Durham Assizes. The complainant alleged that he had been robbed of his watch by the defendant and another man. A police inspector had subsequently received the watch from Fr. Kelly, a priest in the neighbourhood, upon his calling at the presbytery. Fr. Kelly was summoned as a witness by the prosecutor, and as the oath was about to be administered to him he objected to its form, not, he explained, to that part of it which required him to tell the truth and nothing but the truth, \"but as a minister of the Catholic Church\", he said, \"I object to that part which states that I shall tell the whole truth\". The judge answered him: \"The meaning of the oath is this: it is the whole truth touching the trial which you are asked: which you legitimately, according to law, can be asked. If anything is asked of you in the witness box which the law says ought not to be asked, for instance, if you are asked a question the answer to which might criminate yourself, you would be entitled to say, 'I object to answer that question'\". The judge told him that he must be sworn. \n\nWhen asked by counsel from whom he had received the watch Fr. Kelly replied: \"I received it in connexion with the confessional\". The judge said: \"You are not asked at present to disclose anything stated to you in the confessional: you are asked a simple fact: from whom did you receive that watch which you gave to the policeman?\". Fr. Kelly protested: \"The reply to a question would implicate the person who gave me the watch, therefore I cannot answer it. If I answered it my suspension for life would be a necessary consequence. I should be violating the laws of the Church as well as the natural laws\". The judge said: \"On the ground that I have stated to you, you are not asked to disclose anything that a penitent may have said to you in the confessional. That you are not asked to disclose: but you are asked to disclose from whom you received the stolen property on the 25th December last. Do you answer or do you not?\". Fr. Kelly replied: \"I really cannot, my Lord\", and he was imprisoned forthwith for contempt of court.\n\nThe \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" contends that it may be fairly deduced from Mr. Justice Hill's words that he would not have required Fr. Kelly to disclose any statement which had been made to him in the confessional, and, in this sense, his words may be said to give some support to the Catholic claim for privilege for sacramental confession. The \"Encyclopedia\" further observes, \"But we need not wonder that he was not ready to extend the protection to the act of restitution, though, even in the eyes of non-Catholics, it ought, in all logic, to have been entitled to the same secrecy, in view of the circumstances under which, obviously, it was made.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "15315435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15315435", "title": "Rainbow Warrior Case", "text": "Rainbow Warrior Case\n\nThe Rainbow Warrior Case was a dispute between New Zealand and France that arose in the aftermath of the sinking of the \"Rainbow Warrior\". It was arbitrated by UN Secretary-General Javier Pérez de Cuéllar in 1986, and became significant in the subject of Public International Law for its implications on State responsibility.\n\nOn 10 July 1985 an undercover operation conducted by the French military \nsecurity service (DGSE) sank the Dutch-registered Greenpeace ship \"Rainbow Warrior\" berthed in Auckland Harbour, killing a Dutch photographer, Fernando Pereira. The Greenpeace ship was planning to disrupt French Nuclear tests on the islands of French Polynesia. New Zealand subsequently caught and convicted two members of the French secret forces.\n\nAfter a series of diplomatic confrontations between France and New Zealand pertaining primarily to issues of compensation and the treatment of the apprehended agents, both governments decided to have their differences arbitrated by a tribunal chaired by then Secretary-General of the UN, Javier Pérez de Cuéllar. His binding ruling was pronounced on 6 July 1986.\n\nEven though the actions of the French state were not a threat to \"international peace and security\" as held by the UN Charter due to their limited objectives and impact, they were widely held to be acts of international delinquency comprising breach of sovereignty and espionage (though peace time espionage is not covered by international law). The French memorandum to the secretary general argued that Greenpeace was engaging in \"hostile actions\" and \"illegal penetration\" of French territory around the test site and New Zealand acted as a platform for those actions. These arguments were rejected as not fulfilling any of the criteria of international law pertaining to the use of force.\n\nIn such cases where a state sends its agents abroad to commit acts which are illegal under international or municipal law of the target country, it is customary for the state to take responsibility for the act and issue compensation. However its agents are usually granted immunity from local courts. In this case however, New Zealand managed to call out the French state under international law \"and\" try its agents under its own municipal law. See also the Caroline affair on the responsibility of states vs the responsibility of their agents.\n\nFrance, having admitted responsibility, focused its efforts on the repatriation of its servicemen. This was agreed to by New Zealand on the condition that they would serve out the rest of their sentences. A compromise was reached by the mediation of the UN secretary general to three-year sentences on the French atoll of Hao (at a French naval base). France ultimately returned both agents to mainland France and freed them by May 1988, after less than two years on the atoll.\n\nIn terms of reparations, France initially offered an official apology and acknowledgement of breach of international law. Additionally, the UN secretary-general awarded New Zealand 7 million USD. This is in addition to compensation which France paid to Pereira's family and to Greenpeace (settled privately).\n\nThe Rainbow Warrior case bolsters the notion that there is a doctrine of non-intervention in international law and that states will be punished for contravening it. It is also an interesting study of state responsibility, individual responsibility, use of force and reparations. Its consideration for international law is slightly hampered by the fact that it was decided by a single individual (the UN secretary general) as a special Tribunal not internationally established. This is because there existed jurisdictional obstacles for an application to the International Court of Justice by New Zealand, most importantly of which was that France did not (and still does not) recognise the jurisdiction of the Court as compulsory.\n\n"}
{"id": "52248877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52248877", "title": "Rashtriya Janata Party", "text": "Rashtriya Janata Party\n\nRashtriya Janata Party was a political party in Gujarat, India. It was a splinter group of Bharatiya Janata Party. This group was led by Shankersinh Vaghela and Dilip Parikh. It was later dissolved and its leaders joined the Indian National Congress.\n\nIn 1995, BJP won a majority of 121 legislators out of a 182-member Legislative Assembly, who expressed a preference for Shankersinh Vaghela as their leader. Narendra Modi is said to have thrown his weight behind Keshubhai Patel in preference to Vaghela and held responsible for the ensuing events. However, the BJP leadership installed Keshubhai Patel as the Chief Minister and the support for Vaghela was gradually eroded. \n\nIn September 1995, Vaghela rebelled against the BJP leadership with the support of 47 MLAs. Vaghela lost Godhra seat in May 1996 Lok Sabha polls, and soon left Bharatiya Janata Party with his supporters, bringing down Suresh Mehta's government. He floated his own party, named Rashtriya Janta Party and became Chief Minister with Indian National Congress's support in October 1996. \n\nHe won bye-poll to Gujarat Assembly from Radhanpur seat in early 1997. But he had to resign as Chief Minister during ongoing political turmoil in Gujarat in October 1997 and his fellow-rebel ex-BJP MLA Dilip Parikh became CM with Vaghela's reluctant blessings. Even Parikh's government did not last long and fresh elections for Gujarat Vidhan Sabha had to be called in 1998. Vaghela did not contest these elections. He merged his new party with Indian National Congress.\n"}
{"id": "660248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=660248", "title": "Receivership", "text": "Receivership\n\nIn law, receivership is a situation in which an institution or enterprise is held by a receiver—a person \"placed in the custodial responsibility for the property of others, including tangible and intangible assets and rights\"—especially in cases where a company cannot meet financial obligations or enters bankruptcy. The receivership remedy is an equitable remedy that emerged in the English chancery courts, where receivers were appointed to protect real property. Receiverships are also a remedy of last resort in litigation involving the conduct of executive agencies that fail to comply with constitutional or statutory obligations to populations that rely on those agencies for their basic human rights.\n\nReceiverships can be broadly divided into two types: \nReceiverships relating to insolvency are subdivided into two further categories: administrative receivership, where the receiver is appointed wide management powers over all or most of the property of a business, and other receiverships (sometimes misleadingly called \"fixed charge receiverships\") where the receiver has limited control over specific property, with no broader powers beyond managing or selling the individual asset.\n\nReceivers are appointed in different ways:\n\nThe receiver's powers \"flow from the document(s) underlying his appointment\"—i.e., a statute, financing agreement, or court order.\n\nThe receiver may:\n\nSeveral regulatory entities have been granted power by the Congress to place banking and financial institutions into receivership like the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency for failing nationally chartered commercial banks; the Office of Thrift Supervision for failing savings and loan associations (thrift institutions); and the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) for government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the 11 Federal Home Loan Banks. Most individual states also have granted receivership authority to their own bank regulatory agencies and insurance regulators. State Insurance Departments are accredited by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC)—which states, \"State law should set forth a receivership scheme for the administration, by the insurance commissioner, of insurance companies found to be insolvent as set forth in the NAIC’s Insurer Receivership Model Act.\"\n\nThe California Receivers Forum is a non-profit organization formed by interested receivers, attorneys, accountants and property managers, with support from the Los Angeles Superior Court, to address the needs and concerns of receivers, to facilitate communication between the receivership community and the courts, and to assist in raising the level of professionalism of receivers throughout the state. The California Receivers Forum has five local affiliates: Bay Area, Central California, LA/Orange County, Sacramento Valley and San Diego.\n\nCourt-appointed receivers are \"the most powerful and independent of the judicially appointed managers\". Unlike special masters and monitors, \"the receiver completely displaces the defendants: the receiver makes large and small decisions, spends the organization’s funds, and controls hiring and firing determinations.\" Examples of court-appointed receivers include:\n\nAdministrative receivership is a procedure in the United Kingdom and certain other common law jurisdictions whereby a creditor can enforce security against a company's assets in an effort to obtain repayment of the secured debt. It used to be the most popular method of enforcement by secured creditors, but recent legislative reform in many jurisdictions has reduced its significance considerably in certain countries.\n\nAdministrative receivership differs from simple receivership in that an administrative receiver is appointed over all of the assets and undertaking of the company. This means that an administrative receiver can normally only be appointed by the holder of a floating charge. Because of this unusual role, insolvency legislation usually grants wider powers to administrative receivers, but also controls the exercise of those powers to try to mitigate potential prejudice to unsecured creditors.\n\nTypically, an administrative receiver is an accountant with considerable experience of insolvency matters.\n\nThe common law has long recognised the concept of a receiver. Following the development of the floating charge creditors were effectively able to take security over a company's entire business by means of a floating charge over the undertaking. Security documents generally contained very wide powers of appointment such that on default the creditor could take over the business immediately and without the input of any court. A receiver appointed to the entire business became known as a \"receiver and manager\". The receiver and manager would typically have extensive powers over the business, including the power to sell it at a time and on terms that suited the appointing creditor.\n\nThe ability to appoint a receiver and manager was a very powerful remedy, but it came to be considered unsatisfactory that it was entirely a creature of the contract between the creditor and the borrower. There was no general ability on the part of the borrower or any other party to review the actions of the receiver (who would generally be acting on behalf of \"the borrower\" under the security document) or seek the supervision of the court. A general review of UK insolvency law in the 1980s began with the Cork Report and culminated in the Insolvency Act 1986. It put forward two major reforms. First, it put the receiver and manager on a statutory footing: a receiver appointed to all or substantially all of a company's property was now an \"administrative receiver\" and subject to some statutory responsibilities. Second, it introduced an \"administration order\" as an equivalent process to administrative receivership—but available to any company by court order independent of any particular security arrangement.\n\nParliament expected that companies and creditors would use administration in preference to administrative receivership. Crucially, however, Parliament had conceded in the Insolvency Act that administrative receivership should have priority – that is, a secured creditor with a floating charge could defeat any attempt to commence an administration by appointing an administrative receiver. As a result, administration was not as popular as lawmakers had envisaged, and secured creditors habitually appointed administrative receivers to enforce security rights. Parliament took more drastic action in the Enterprise Act 2002. They changed the administration regime to make it more attractive, but also barred the right to appoint administrative receivers in any security created after 15 September 2003 (subject to certain specific exceptions). Any attempt to do so takes effect as a power to appoint an administrator.\n\nAdministrative receivership still forms part of modern insolvency practice. Companies that get into financial difficulty today may well have security packages that were created before 15 September 2003, a situation likely to remain common for some years. Enforcement is also a significant aspect of the situations where administrative receivership is still permitted – for example, the ability to take control of the entirety of the assets is important in structuring insolvency-remote special purpose companies that issue securities or operate infrastructure projects.\n\nIn common law jurisdictions outside of the United Kingdom, administrative receivership remains alive and well. A number of offshore jurisdictions market transaction structures to banks on the basis that they still retain the freedom to appoint administrative receivers in those jurisdictions.\n\nBecause of their unique role, insolvency legislation usually confers wide powers upon administrative receivers under applicable insolvency law (which is usually concurrent with powers granted under the security document).\n\nHowever, the corollary is that administrative receivers are usually required under applicable legislation to file reports in relation to the period of their receivership.\n\nSimilarly to the United Kingdom process, methods for receiver appointment in Ireland are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36202154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36202154", "title": "Revenue stamps of the United Kingdom", "text": "Revenue stamps of the United Kingdom\n\nRevenue stamps of the United Kingdom refer to the various revenue or fiscal stamps, whether adhesive, directly embossed or otherwise, which were issued by and used in the Kingdom of England, the Kingdom of Great Britain, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, from the late 17th century to the present day.\n\nThe first impressed duty stamps were issued by the Kingdom of England in accordance with the Stamps Act 1694. Impressed duty stamps were used to pay a multitude of taxes in the centuries since then, and they are still in use today.\n\nThe first adhesive revenue stamps were chocolate duty stamps issued in the 1740s, but no examples of these have survived today. The oldest known adhesive stamps of which examples still exist were issued in the 1780s for duties on hats, gloves and perfume. British revenue stamps therefore predate the first postage stamp, the Penny Black, was issued in 1840. Surface printed revenues which had designs similar to postage stamps were first issued in 1853, and in 1855 embossed adhesive stamps began to be issued.\n\nA wide range of revenue stamps were used throughout the second half of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th century. These included standard key type designs bearing the portrait of the reigning monarch, embossed adhesives, impressed duty stamps and various other designs for specific uses. In most cases, stamps were affixed to documents but for some cases such as Medicine Duty, the stamp was affixed to the product being taxed.\n\nThe amount of revenue stamps in use decreased considerably during the 1960s, but key types and stamps for television licence continued to be issued until the late 1990s. Today, the only revenues still in use are impressed duty stamps, as well as taxpaid labels or imprints for alcohol excise. In addition to national issues, some of constituent countries of the UK (Ireland, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Southern Ireland) issued their own revenue stamps due to peculiarities within the legal system. Some counties and local authorities also issued stamps during the 19th and 20th centuries. The extensive use of revenue stamps in the United Kingdom influenced the use of such stamps in its colonies.\n\nThe first revenue stamps used in the United Kingdom were impressed duty stamps issued by the Kingdom of England following the introduction of Stamp duty in the Stamps Act 1694. This was \"An act for granting to Their Majesties several duties on Vellum, Parchment and Paper for 10 years, towards carrying on the war against France\" (5 & 6 Will. & Mar. c. 21). The duty ranged from 1 penny to several shillings on a number of different legal documents including insurance policies and documents used as evidence in courts. It raised around £50,000 a year and although it was initially a temporary measure, it proved so successful that its use was continued. Successive Acts have created new duties up to the present day and impressed duty stamps are still in use to collect taxes, although electronic methods are now taking over. Around 10,000 different dies of impressed duty stamps have been used since the 17th century, and these exist with face values of up to £1 million.\n\nThe tax was enforced by making the documents unenforceable in court if they had not been properly stamped. The tax was either a fixed amount per document or \"ad valorem\" where the tax varied according to the value of the transaction being taxed. Stamps were issued by the newly-created \"Board of Commissioners of Stamps\". Distributors of stamps were appointed throughout the country. Later, the poet William Wordsworth was the distributor in Westmorland. At first, the stamps consisted of colourless (also known as \"albino\") designs embossed directly onto a document using a die. Coloured ink in the embossed designs was introduced in the 1850s; initially this was pink but it was changed to vermilion in the 1870s. Blue ink was used for duplicate stamps.\n\nIn the case of thick parchment such as vellum which did not allow for embossing directly on it, a paper was attached to the document using glue and a strip of tin, and the embossing was applied to this paper. A number of different coloured papers were used, including red, green, vermilion and most commonly blue. The ends of the strip of tin at the back of the document were covered with a small paper seal which bore the royal cypher of the reigning monarch. These were first introduced in 1701 under King William III, and continued to be used until 1921.\n\nMost of the embossed stamps were general-duty stamps, which were used for multiple purposes. However, at times there were specific issues inscribed for particular taxes or fees. Examples include ' and '.\n\nBy the mid-19th century, the use of impressed duty stamps had become extensive, and for convenience purposes the stamps began to be embossed onto sheets of gummed paper, and then cut down and subsequently affixed to documents. The first adhesive general-duty revenue stamps were issued in 1855. The initial issue was imperforate, but from 1870 the stamps began to be perforated. The stamps were originally pink, but the colour was changed to vermilion in 1875 and blue in around 1887. Use of general-duty adhesive revenues continued until the early decades of the 20th century. Over-embossing dies, which are themselves very similar to impressed stamps, were often used as cancellations on embossed general-duty adhesives.\n\nApart from general-duty revenues, there were also some embossed revenues issued for specific taxes. Sometimes the embossing was done on paper which had already been underprinted with inscriptions denoting the intended use, such as ' and '. In addition, there were also specific designs of embossed stamps inscribed for a particular use, examples being ' and '.\nIn 1853, two 1d revenue stamps with designs depicting Queen Victoria and inscribed ' and ' were issued. These stamps were surface printed by De La Rue, and their design resembles that of postage stamps, so many philatelists regard them as the first \"true\" adhesive revenue stamps. In 1855, a single stamp inscribed \" was issued replacing the two separate issues.\n\nInland Revenue stamps were introduced in 1860. Initially, the 1855 stamp was overprinted \", but sets of new stamps were issued later on that year. A number of Inland Revenue stamps were issued over the next two decades, both surface printed designs depicting Queen Victoria, as well as embossed adhesives with an underprint.\n\nThe Customs and Inland Revenue Act of 1881 necessitated that dual-purpose stamps be issued for both postage and revenue. Therefore, the Penny Lilac was issued in July 1881 with the inscription ', superseding the older inland revenue stamps. In 1883–84, a set of stamps known as the Lilac and Green Issue was introduced, and it bore the inscription '. Later issues of postage stamps up to the 2/6 value also bore this inscription, and dual-purpose stamps continued to be issued until 1968. Fiscally used stamps are easily distinguished from their postally used counterparts since they were usually pen cancelled. Precancels with the names of firms were also commonly used.\n\nFrom 1904 to 1959, various Inland Revenue stamps with values from 3/- to 10/- were issued with key type designs.\n\nIn 1872, a series of standard dies for revenue stamps were prepared by De La Rue. These designs depicted Queen Victoria and had a blank tablet at the bottom, which could then be overprinted with an inscription denoting for which the stamp was used for. They are therefore regarded as key type stamps. Each value had a different design, and the pence, shilling and pound values had different sizes.\n\nUpon the accession of King Edward VII, a set of new designs bearing the portrait of the new monarch was introduced. The same basic designs were reused with the portraits of King George V, King George VI and Queen Elizabeth II, with some new values being added over the years. Initially, De La Rue was responsible for both making the printing plates and printing the stamps. In 1910, printing was taken over by the Stamp Office. At first the existing De La Rue plates continued to be used, until the Royal Mint took over the work of making the plates in 1915. His Majesty's Stationery Office became responsible for the printing in 1934.\n\nIn 1971, new stamps had to be printed due to decimalization, and both the printing plates and the printing itself was carried out by De La Rue. The quality of printing declined substantially in the late 1970s, as the printing might have been subcontracted. A new key type was introduced in around 1990 but it was only used for a few stamps as by then, the amount of revenue stamps that were in use had decreased considerably.\n\nExamples of appropriations on the key types include ', ', ' and '.\n\nApart from the embossed stamps and the key types, a number of other fees or taxes had their own stamps. Many stamps issued in the 19th century depicted Queen Victoria, examples of these being stamps for Admiralty Court fees, early Foreign Bill stamps, Life Policy stamps and stamps for Matrimonial Cause Fees. Other stamps which had their own specific designs include issues for Annuity Premium and Old Age Pensions. Excise stamps were used to pay the duty on entertainment activities from 1916 to 1958, and were affixed to cinema or event tickets.\n\nSmall numeral designs were utilized for many contributions stamps, such as those issued for National Health Insurance (1912–25), Health and Pensions Insurance (1925–48) and National Insurance (1948–90s). Other related issues include Unemployment Insurance and Agriculture Unemployment Insurance stamps, which were superseded by NI issues in 1948.\n\nThe UK issued television licence stamps from 1972 until these were withdrawn in 1998. CB radio licence stamps were also issued between 1981 and the 1990s.\n\nDuty stamps which were affixed directly to the object they were taxing were first issued in the 18th century, making them first adhesive revenue stamps to be issued. They usually had no gum and were glued to the object being taxed. Most of them would be destroyed upon opening the packaging. Early issues and the date of first issue include stamps for chocolate duty ( 1743), hat tax (1784), glove duty (1785), perfume duty (1786) and cocoa duty (1822). No chocolate duty stamps seem to still exist today.\n\nA wide range of large-format stamps were issued to pay for Medicine Duty. These were affixed directly to jars or packets of medicine, and many different types exist, both standard issues as well as appropriated ones with the manufacturer's brand specified on the stamp. Medicine duty stamps were first introduced in 1783 and remained in use until 1941. In 1915, two King George V postage and revenue stamps were overprinted to pay for additional medicine duty. This was done after duty rates had doubled, and the stamps were affixed over large-format stamps with the old face values.\n\nLarge-format stamps were also issued to pay duty on cavendish tobacco and coffee mixtures from the mid-19th to mid-20th centuries. Duty stamps paying the tax on spirits and wine are still in use today, and they are affixed or imprinted on the alcohol container.\n\nWhen something other than a document was taxed, sometimes labels were affixed to the object's packaging to indicate that the tax had been paid (refer to the \"Stamps affixed onto the taxed object\" section above), but this was not always the case. Sometimes the item itself or its wrapper were imprinted with a revenue stamp, in what may be regarded as the fiscal equivalent of postal stationery. Examples of this include taxes on:\n\nTickets issued for horse duty in the 18th century are sometimes also regarded and collected as revenue stamps.\n\nExcise stamps were also directly imprinted on cinema tickets in 1916–58 and betting tickets in 1926–29.\n\nDespite being part of the United Kingdom, Ireland had many unique branches of the legal system, and this necessitated the need for some separate revenue stamps. Impressed duty stamps were introduced in Ireland in 1774, at the time when it was a separate kingdom and a client state of Britain. The designs of most Irish revenues were very similar to British issues (including many impressed duty stamps, embossed adhesives or key types), but some impressed duty stamps bore Irish symbols such as the harp. Examples of Irish revenues issued when it was part of the United Kingdom include stamps for Admiralty Court, County Courts, Dog Licence and Land Registry.\n\nWhen Ireland was partitioned into Northern Ireland and Southern Ireland in 1921, separate revenue stamps were issued for both entities. Southern Ireland stamps saw little use since that political entity was quickly superseded by the Provisional Government of Ireland and later the Irish Free State (both of which applied overprints on various British and Irish revenue stamps). However, Northern Ireland continued to use separate revenue stamps until the 1980s. Northern Irish revenues include Civil Service, Dog Licence, Excise and National Insurance stamps, among many others.\n\nA similar situation existed on a lower extent with Scotland, whose legal system had some differences from the rest of the country. The only revenue stamps issued specifically for Scotland were Law Courts stamps between 1873 and the 1970s, and Register House stamps between 1871 and the 1950s.\n\nThe Local Stamp Act of 1869 permitted local authorities to issue their own stamps to collect certain fines or fees. In 1870, the counties of Gloucestershire, Isle of Ely and Northamptonshire introduced a common design consisting of a shield with the Union Jack, with the name of the county above it and the face value of the stamp below. The colours of the stamps determined what function they were to be used for, usually County Court fees or fines. Some stamps are also known overprinted \"\" for cases where fines were paid late and the person was subsequently sent to prison. These county stamps were discontinued by the 1880s.\n\nThe City of London issued and used Justice Room stamps from 1869 to around 1960, and Mayor's Court stamps from 1883 to around 1939. A single stamp was issued to pay for Guildhall Consultation Fees in 1892, and this was used until about 1900. None of these stamps bears the name of the city, but they all depict the coat of arms of the City of London.\n\nThe Chatham and Sheerness Police Courts issued a few stamps from around 1870 to 1897. The Chancery of Lancashire used various types of typeset stamps as fee receipts from 1875 to 1971. The Town of Southampton and the Com. Southton issued Court Fee and Fine or Fee stamps respectively in 1878 and 1880. Winchester issued Justice Court stamps in 1888 and used them until around 1900. Sheffield issued Town Hall and Court House stamps in 1891, and these remained in use until around 1905. Hampshire used stamps for Land Charges search fees between 1962 and 1976.\n\nIn 1979, key type designs for home help, home care or meals on wheels were introduced by various local authorities. These are not revenues since they were optional home support services not taxes. The Nottinghamshire County Council used one such keytype to pay for housing fees and social services in the 1990s.\n\nThe three Crown dependencies – Guernsey, Jersey and the Isle of Man – are not officially part of the United Kingdom but are self-governing possessions of the Crown. As such, they issued revenue stamps separately from the United Kingdom. The Isle of Man used British key types from 1889 to 1966, and overprints on British National Health Insurance, Health and Pensions Insurance, and National Insurance stamps from around 1920 to the 1970s. Post-1966 Isle of Man revenues, as well as stamps issued by the States of Guernsey and the States of Jersey had different designs which were unrelated to revenue stamps used in the United Kingdom. The States of Alderney also issued revenue stamps from 1923 to 1962. Jersey revenues are still in use today.\n\nApart from separate issues by each of the islands, general stamps for all the Channel Islands were issued in 1973 to prepay the British Value-added tax on boxes of flowers sent by post.\n\nSome colonies followed Britain in the use of duty stamps in the 18th century. Embossed or directly imprinted revenue stamps were used by the Province of Massachusetts Bay and Province of New York in 1755–57 and 1757–60 respectively. The Stamp Act 1765 introduced direct taxation in the colonies of British America, and a series of impressed duty stamps were therefore introduced in these colonies. They had similar designs to British issues but with the inscription \"\", and like British issues the stamps could be embossed directly onto a document or on pieces of coloured paper with a cypher label at the back. Apart from general-duty impressed stamps, embossed stamps for playing cards and imprinted stamps for almanacs and newspapers or pamphlets were also prepared or issued. Some of these are only known as proofs and not as issued stamps. The Stamp Act brought about the objection of \"no taxation without representation\", and it was a major contributing factor to the American Revolution.\n\nMost of the various British colonies, protectorates and territories issued impressed duty stamps or adhesive revenue stamps (or both) at some points during the 19th and 20th centuries. The Colony of Jamaica might have used impressed duty stamps as early as 1804, while Mauritius was using inked impressions for revenue purposes in the 1820s. Early users of adhesive revenue stamps include Jamaica, which issued surface printed revenue stamps in 1855, and the Colony of Natal, which roughly at the same time issued embossed adhesives similar to those used in Britain.\nSome British revenue stamps were also overprinted for use in the colonies. Impressed duty stamps were overprinted for use in the protectorate of Cyprus. Embossed adhesives were overprinted for use in Barbados, the British Solomon Islands, Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago. British key types were also overprinted for use as postage and revenue stamps of British Bechuanaland, as revenue stamps of Cyprus and Weihaiwei, and as court fee stamps of the Trucial States. The key types were also used to produce Military Telegraphs and Army Telegraphs stamps of the United Kingdom. British postage and revenue stamps were also overprinted for use as revenues in Mandatory Palestine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "607601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=607601", "title": "Rule of reason", "text": "Rule of reason\n\nThe rule of reason is a legal doctrine used to interpret the Sherman Antitrust Act, one of the cornerstones of United States antitrust law. While some actions like price-fixing are considered illegal \"per se\"\", \"other actions, such as possession of a monopoly, must be analyzed under the rule of reason and are only considered illegal when their effect is to unreasonably\" \"restrain trade. William Howard Taft, then Chief Judge of the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, first developed the doctrine in a ruling on \"Addyston Pipe and Steel Co. v. United States, \"which was affirmed in 1899 by the Supreme Court. The doctrine also played a major role in the 1911 Supreme Court case \"Standard Oil Company of New Jersey v. United States.\"\n\nUpon its development some critics of \"Standard Oil\", including the lone dissenter Justice John Marshall Harlan, argued that \"Standard Oil\" and its rule of reason were a departure from previous Sherman Act case law, which purportedly had interpreted the language of the Sherman Act to hold that all contracts restraining trade were prohibited, regardless of whether the restraint actually produced ill effects. These critics emphasized in particular the Court's decision in \"United States v. Trans-Missouri Freight Association\", 166 U.S. 290 (1897), which contains some language suggesting that a mere restriction on the autonomy of traders would suffice to establish that an agreement restrained trade within the meaning of the Act. \n\nOthers, including William Howard Taft and Robert Bork, argued that the decision and the principle it announced was entirely consistent with earlier case law. These scholars argue that much language in \"Trans-Missouri Freight\" was dicta, and also emphasized the Court's decision in \"United States v. Joint Traffic Association\", 171 U.S. 505 (1898), in which the Court announced that \"ordinary contracts and combinations\" did not offend the Sherman Act, because they restrained only trade \"indirectly.\" Indeed, in his 1912 book on antitrust law, Taft reported that no critic of \"Standard Oil\" could succeed in Taft's challenge: to articulate one scenario in which the rule of reason would produce a result different from that produced under prior case law. In 1911, the Supreme Court announced \"United States v. American Tobacco Co.\", 221 U.S. 106 (1911). That decision held that Section 2 of the Sherman Act, which bans monopolization, did not ban the mere possession of a monopoly but banned only the unreasonable acquisition or maintenance of monopoly. This reflects a long-standing view that one can have a monopoly just by having a superior product and that it violates no law to produce such a product.\n\nIn 1918, seven years later, the Court unanimously reaffirmed the rule of reason in \"Chicago Board of Trade v. United States\". In an opinion written by Justice Louis Brandeis, the Court held that an agreement between rivals limiting rivalry on price after an exchange was closed was reasonable and thus did not violate the Sherman Act. The Court rejected a strict interpretation of the Sherman Act's language: \"The true test of legality is whether the restraint imposed is such as merely regulates and perhaps thereby promotes competition or whether it is such as may suppress or even destroy competition.\" The Court did so mostly because the agreement was regulatory rather than anticompetitive. \n\nThe rule was narrowed in later cases that held that certain kinds of restraints, such as price fixing agreements, group boycotts, and geographical market divisions, were illegal per se. These decisions followed up on the suggestion in \"Standard Oil\" that courts can determine that certain restraints are unreasonable based simply upon the \"nature and character\" of the agreement.\n\nMore recently, the Supreme Court has removed a number of restraints from the category deemed unlawful \"per se\" and instead subjected them to fact-based rule of reason analysis. These include non-price vertical restraints in 1977's \"Continental Television v. GTE Sylvania\", maximum resale price maintenance agreements in 1997's \"State Oil v. Khan\", and minimum resale price maintenance agreements in 2007's \"Leegin Creative Leather Products, Inc. v. PSKS, Inc.\".\n\nMoreover, the Supreme Court has reaffirmed the conclusion in \"Standard Oil\" that analysis under the rule of reason should focus on the economic but not the social consequences of a restraint (\"National Society of Professional Engineers v. United States\", 435 U.S. 679 (1978)). Further, the Court retained the \"per se\" rule against tying contracts but raised the threshold showing of market power that plaintiffs must make to satisfy the rule's requirement of \"economic power\" (see \"Jefferson Parish Hospital District No. 2 v. Hyde\", 466 U.S. 2 (1985).\n\nSeveral authors have worked on the creation of a \"structured rule of reason\" so to avoid the flaw in term of legal certainty surrounding a pure rule of reason.\n\nA rule of reason does not exist in EU competition law (see eg T-11/08, T-112/99, T-49/02, T-491/07, T-208/13, etc).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4354345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4354345", "title": "Stone wall", "text": "Stone wall\n\nStone walls are a kind of masonry construction that has been used for thousands of years. The first stone walls were constructed by farmers and primitive people by piling loose field stones into a dry stone wall. Later, mortar and plaster were used, especially in the construction of city walls, castles, and other fortifications before and during the Middle Ages. These stone walls are spread throughout the world in different forms. One of the best example is the Cyclopean Wall in Rajgir, India.\n\nStone walls are usually made of local materials varying from limestone and flint to granite and sandstone. However, the quality of building stone varies greatly, both in its endurance to weathering, resistance to water penetration and in its ability to be worked into regular shapes before construction. Worked stone is usually known as ashlar, and is often used for corners in stone buildings. Granite is very resistant to weathering, while some limestones are very weak. Other limestones, such as Portland stone, are more weather-resistant.\n\nLarge structures are usually made of very thick walls, so that castles and cathedrals possess walls which may be up to 12 feet thick. They normally consist of a layered stone exterior and rubble infill.\n\n"}
{"id": "10114322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10114322", "title": "Suzanne Shell", "text": "Suzanne Shell\n\nDonna Suzanne Shell (born c. 1957 maiden name \"Ostrum\") is an American activist critical of child protective services.\n\nShell grew up in Minnesota. Her first experience with child protective services occurred in 1974, when at age 17 she was punched in the face by her father. That year, she was put in a foster home and gave birth to a baby she gave up for adoption. She became involved in dependency and neglect cases after Elbert County, Colorado, took away one of her children in 1991 for an alleged spanking by his stepfather that she claimed \"left no marks.\" The child was returned after four days with no further action. Since that time she has assisted other families facing court-ordered sanctions. Shell runs a website called Profane Justice and has also published a book by the same title.\n\nIn 2002, she told a reporter \"I don't think they should ever terminate parental rights without proof that a child has been seriously hurt.\"\n\nIn March 2004, the Colorado Supreme Court cited Shell for contempt of court for ignoring a 2001 order to stop practicing law without a license. In 2006 the citation was upheld by the Colorado Supreme Court, and Shell was fined $6,000.\n\nIn 2005, Shell filed suit on behalf of herself and April Fields in Colorado District Court against several officials connected with Child Protective Services. The case was dismissed by the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado, and was a subject for her 2006 contempt citation by the state Supreme Court, as she was found to have attempted to represent Fields in the court without a license to practice law.\n\nOn December 12, 2005, Shell demanded Internet Archive pay her $100,000 for archiving her website between 1999 and 2004. Internet Archive filed a declaratory judgment Action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California on January 20, 2006 seeking a judicial determination that Internet Archive did not violate Shell’s copyright. Shell responded and brought a countersuit against Internet Archive for archiving her site, which she alleges is in violation of her terms of service. On February 13, 2007, a judge for the United States District Court for the District of Colorado dismissed all counterclaims except breach of contract. The Internet Archive did not move to dismiss copyright infringement claims Shell asserted arising out of its copying activities. On April 25, 2007 Internet Archive and Shell jointly announced the settlement of their lawsuit. The Internet Archive said, \"Internet Archive has no interest in including materials in the Wayback Machine of persons who do not wish to have their Web content archived. We recognize that Ms. Shell has a valid and enforceable copyright in her Web site and we regret that the inclusion of her Web site in the Wayback Machine resulted in this litigation. We are happy to have this case behind us.\" Shell stated, \"I respect the historical value of Internet Archive's goal. I never intended to interfere with that goal nor cause it any harm.\"\n\nOn February 13, 2009, Shell filed a copyright infringement lawsuit in U.S. District Court in Denver against 30 individuals and organizations. As of November 2011, the case is now over, all of the defendants (Except Leonard Henderson) have been dropped from the lawsuit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53469251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53469251", "title": "Todd's Welfare Society", "text": "Todd's Welfare Society\n\nTodd's Welfare Society (TWS) is a nonprofit organization established in June 2016 in Lahore, Pakistan. TWS was formed on 6 March 2016 to protect injured, sick, abandoned and neglected animals in Lahore. The purpose of the NGO is primarily animal rescue and animal welfare.\n\nTWS works in different areas to promote animal welfare in Pakistan. They help provide shelter, medical assistance, rehabilitation and homes for animals. TWS also helps educate and create awareness regarding the plight of animals in Pakistan. All donations and funds go towards helping the rescues at their shelter. TWS believes that animals have as much right to their life as humans.\n\nTWS is working towards building the first No-kill animal shelter in Lahore. Currently they have been helping animals from different foster homes.\n\nTodd's Welfare Society was started on 6 March 2016 after a heart breaking incident. A dog, later named Joanne, was shot multiple times on the face by guards in Lahore on 5 March 2016. Joanne's heartless murder shocked, Kiran Maheen, the founder of TWS, and to prevent such incidents from occurring again, TWS was formed the very next day.\n\nTWS was named in the memory of Toddy, their founders pet dog. Toddy was stolen from outside his home 7 years ago, in April 2010. He was never found.\n\nThey envision an animal friendly community; a society where stray animals are not killed; where every companion animal is spayed and neutered; where every animal and pet is treated kindly, with respect and compassion\n\nTheir services include:\n\nSince March 2016, TWS has rescued over a 200 cats, dogs, eagles and donkeys. From those rescued, over 50 have been adopted to good homes.\n\nTodd's Welfare Society has over 15 permanent members, over 30 volunteers and have steady volunteer programs with different schools (LGSi, & TNS). Over the course of 10 months (June'16 - March'17), more than 60 volunteers have worked with TWS . They have regular field visits and awareness drives with different schools (Bloomfield, City School etc.). Todd's Welfare Society's' founder, Kiran Maheen, has also been invited to different events, such as TEDx Sialkot and TEDx Lahore, to talk about her work, and to inspire people to stand up for animal rights.\n\nApart from having a foster home in Cavalry, they have also rented new premises for another foster home in Burki, and have acquired land to start construction of their shelter.\n\nTWS wants to open the first, state of the art, no-kill animal shelter in Lahore. Apart from that they also want to start a massive TNR program in Punjab to decrease the population of dogs and cats and to decrease the occurrence of rabies in animals. They also want to start yearly awareness conferences and have programs in different schools and universities where they can learn more about animal rights and care.\n\n\n__NOEDITSECTION__\n"}
{"id": "40411417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40411417", "title": "Trex Company, Inc.", "text": "Trex Company, Inc.\n\nTrex Company, Inc. known to global consumers and others simply as Trex or Trex Decking, is the leading recycled materials manufacturer of wood-alternative decking, railings and other outdoor items. It has been a public company since 1999 and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “TREX”. The company was founded in 1996 and is headquartered in Winchester, VA, USA. With manufacturing facilities in Fernley, Nevada and Winchester, Virginia, the company’s products are sold in 29 countries. Trex products are carried by approximately 6,700 retail locations worldwide.\n\nAccording to public documents, the company is the world’s largest manufacturer of wood-alternative decking and railing, with approximate 2017 annual revenues reported of $565 million, annual operating income of $95.1 million and net income of $326.2 million. James E. Cline was named president and CEO of Trex effective August 17, 2015. Bryan H. Fairbanks was named vice president and CFO effective August 17, 2015. Key executives of Trex Decking include; James E. Cline, president and chief executive officer; Bryan H. Fairbanks, vice president and chief financial officer; Ron Kaplan, chairman; Jay Scripter, vice president of operations, Chris Gerhard, vice president of sales; Adam Zambanini, vice president of marketing; Bill Gupp, chief administrative officer, general counsel and secretary.\n\nTrex is widely considered as one of the inventors of composite decking made from recyclable materials. The idea for a process and product created to maximize the use of materials that would otherwise wind up in landfills is credited to inventors Kjell-Ake Gustafsson, of Binghamton, NY; John J. Muller, of Winchester, VA; and Roger A. Wittenberg of Newton, PA.\n\nThe first patent for a “Method of Producing a Wood-Thermoplastic Composite Material” was filed as U.S. Patent number 5746958 in March 1995 and granted in May 1998. The Assignee was Trex Company LLC, operating in Winchester, VA. The process abstract for the creation of composite decking is: “A method for producing a wood-thermoplastic composite material using a high bulk density feedstock. Since the feedstock is easy to handle it provides manufacturers with lots of control over the process. Prompted by the prospect of environmental regulations mandating recycled materials, this process uses spent sawdust and plastic material rather than disposing of it.”\n\nTrex continues to employ a process that combines different materials, mostly wood and plastic, that are formed to create a product that has the appearance of wood. The wood content in Trex products is largely wood byproducts like sawdust, wood pallets, wood chips and wood fiber. The polyethylene plastic continues to be mostly recycled materials from commonly discarded items like stretch wrap, packaging films, grocery and retail bags and case/carton/product overwraps. Trex uses about 100,000 tons of waste polyethylene film each year and claims to keep 200,000 tons of plastic and hardwood scraps out of American landfills each year. Over 120,000 pieces of post consumer film (packaging, bags, overwraps, etc.) can be used to create a 500-square-foot Trex deck. The components are mixed and a pigment and preservative are added during the process. The mixture is then heated, formed into a board shape, and cooled.\n\nIn 2009 Trex introduced a ‘Transcend’ line of decking that is a co-extruded composite decking product that includes a shell around the composite boards on three sides to protect the boards from staining, fading and scratching. The Trex Transcend line of decking claims a recycled content rate of 95.4%.\n\nTrex products include:\n\n\nTrex promotes an environmental stance as part of its commercial appeal in the marketplace. In public materials, Trex Company, Inc. cites that no trees are cut down to make Trex decking products; that the company uses vegetable-based oil hydraulics in transportation trailers; and that it recycles factory waste back into the manufacturing line.\n\nTrex composite decking contains 97% recycled content and offers verification by ICC-ES. In July 2010 Trex received a Verification of Attributes Report (VAR-1011) from the International Code Council Evaluation Service (ICC-ES) under the Sustainable Attributes Verification and Evaluation Program. The verification validates Trex’s wood-alternative products are manufactured with a minimum of 95.4% recycled content. Trex claims is the first composite decking manufacturer to obtain this certification.\n\nTrex has been a member of the Green Building Council, a trade group promoting environmentally friendly building practices, (USGBC) since 2009. USGBC is best known for the widely recognized LEED program (Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design).\n\nThrough the LEED point-based system, the use of Trex decking and railing products add points based on the percentage of recycled product content.\n\nTrex conducts and participates in eco-friendly educational and recycling programs in various parts of the United States. Since 2006, students at selected schools throughout the East Coast and Midwest have participated in a ‘Trex Plastic Bag Challenge’ (recently renamed ‘Plastic Film Recycling Challenge’ ). Students collect plastic bags in exchange for a gift of Trex benches to participating schools.\n\nThe company has also provided in-kind contributions, financial assistance and expertise to environmental projects around the country. These include:\n\n\nTrex corporate participation in environmental efforts, coupled with its eco-friendly product profile, has led to recognition by governments, publications and trade groups.\n\nThese include:\n\n\n\nLawsuit: A manufacturing problem at the Trex manufacturing facility in Fernley, Nevada led to the production of some decking boards from 2002 to 2007 that were prone to surface flaking. These boards were sold throughout 16 Western states in the U.S. and resulted in a class action suit against the company. In a settlement approved in 2010 Trex agreed to replace any decking boards, including some resulting labor costs, for decking affected by surface flaking.\n\n42. ^ “Pool Decks”. Professional pool Deck builder. Retrieved 19 March 2005.\n"}
{"id": "1710003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1710003", "title": "Voluntary social year", "text": "Voluntary social year\n\nThe voluntary social year in Austria and Germany (German \"Freiwilliges Soziales Jahr\", abbr. FSJ) is a state-funded voluntary work program particularly for young adults. It can last between six and eighteen months and also be spent working abroad. \n\nThe idea behind this voluntary social year has its origin in the Protestant and Roman Catholic church by organizing a diaconical year. In 1964 the German parliament conducted a law, that became the basis of the platform, that supplies officially certified organizations and government institutions with volunteers.\n\nPossible locations are numerous and are all social, charitable or of public utility.\n\n\nDue to the existing conscription for military service in Austria, since 2016 the voluntary social year is an alternative service to the compulsory service in the Austrian Armed Forces for males. Before conscription was abandoned in Germany in 2011, the FSJ could be used as an alternative service for males as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12430071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12430071", "title": "Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006", "text": "Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006\n\nThe Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006 (c 36) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. This Act repealed the Wireless Telegraphy Act 1949.\n\nThe Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006 had as its purpose to \"consolidate enactments about wireless telegraphy\". The Act was successful as cited in Office of Communications and another v. Floe Telecom Ltd [2009] EWCA Civ 47 to show that in the absence of a licence or exemption granted or made under Section 8 of the Act, the use of Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) gateways (including Commercial Multi-User Gateways) for the purpose of providing a telecommunications service by way of business to another person is unlawful.\n\nSection 126(2) provides that the Act came into force at the end of the period of three months that began on the date on which it was passed. The word \"months\" means calendar months. The day (that is to say, 8 November 2006) on which the Act was passed (that is to say, received royal assent) is included in the period of three months. This means that the Act came into force on 8 February 2007.\n\n\n"}
