{"id": "44600161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44600161", "title": "1769 Census (Denmark–Norway)", "text": "1769 Census (Denmark–Norway)\n\nThe 1769 Census was the first census covering the Oldenburg State: the Kingdom of Denmark, the Kingdom of Norway (including the Faroese Islands and Iceland), the Duchy of Schleswig, the Duchy of Holstein, and the Countship of Oldenburg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30224911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30224911", "title": "Al-Mansur Ali bin Salah ad-Din", "text": "Al-Mansur Ali bin Salah ad-Din\n\nAl-Mansur Ali bin Salah ad-Din (1373–1436) was an imam of the Zaidi state in Yemen who ruled in 1391-1436, partly in rivalry with other claimants to the imamate.\n\nAli bin Salah ad-Din was a son of the preceding imam an-Nasir Muhammad Salah ad-Din who had held extensive power in highland Yemen. He grew up in San'a, the most important city of the realm. After an-Nasirs sudden demise in 1391, no less than four claimants to the imamate appeared, foremost among them the learned al-Mahdi Ahmad bin Yahya. The young Ali eventually prevailed. He was proclaimed imam under the name al-Mansur Ali, with the support of the scholars and population of San'a. However, a rival imam called al-Hadi Ali had some support in the northern parts of the Zaidi territory from 1393 to 1432. Due to the unrest, al-Mansur Ali had to travel frequently to trouble spots. He had to fight hard to gain control over Sa'dah, the traditional centre of Zaidi power in the north. Various strongholds of the Isma'ili sect were taken, and they were forced out of Dhu Marmar, a fortress to the east of San'a. In Zaidi historiography, the imam is celebrated as a \"mujaddid bi-sayfihi\", a warlike restorer. That his bellicose exploits sometimes afflicted other Zaidi Muslims did not detract from his reputation. Al-Mansur Ali's rule over San'a was never in danger, but in 1395 he sacked the qadi in the city, who had been found to correspond with the Rasulid Dynasty in the lowland. Two years later he made a diplomatic foray when he sent offerings to the Rasulid Sultan al-Ashraf Isma'il I in Zabid. The offerings consisted of \"five loads of articles esteemed as rarities, and five head of horses of good lineages\".\n\nIn 1403 a tribal army from Hamdan moved towards San'a. The imam swiftly attacked the enemy force outside the city and routed the tribesmen. Shaykh Idris al-Hamdani asked for peace, but al-Mansur Ali refused to listen. Instead, he ravaged the Hamdani lands extensively, until the local shaykhs appeared again to ask for a stop of the hostilities. A peace was eventually concluded, on the condition that the Hamdanis ceded Hisn al-Munaqqab and al-Masna'ah. Some time after these events, al-Mansur Ali concluded a truce with the Rasulids. Towards the end his reign, especially after 1424, Rasulid power began to crumble when a number of short-lived sultans succeeded each other on the throne. In 1436, Yemen was ravaged by the plague, and one of the victims was al-Mansur Ali. He died in San'a and was buried in the Salah ad-Din Mosque, constructed by his father. The son of the deceased imam, an-Nasir Muhammad, took power but succumbed as well after just 28 days. After that, no less than three rival imams appeared, of whom al-Mansur an-Nasir tried to anchor his legitimacy by marrying the granddaughter of al-Mansur Ali.\n\n"}
{"id": "18733992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18733992", "title": "Alan Roach", "text": "Alan Roach\n\nAlan Roach is an American sports announcer and radio personality. He currently is the public address announcer for the Minnesota Vikings, Colorado Avalanche, and Colorado Rapids. Roach is also the voice of NFL events worldwide, and a public address announcer at 5 Olympic Games. He was the voice of the underground train system in Denver International Airport. His announcing credits include 8 Super Bowls, 5 Olympic gold medal hockey games, and multiple All-Star games for the National Football League, National Hockey League, and Major League Baseball.\n\nRoach began his radio career as a high school student in Brainerd, Minnesota in 1982. His early radio career included numerous radio stops including Fort Dodge, IA and Des Moines, IA, Garden City, KS, and Colorado Springs, CO. In 1991, Alan landed in Denver, CO as afternoon host on KRFX radio. In 2000, Roach began as morning sports anchor on 850 KOA radio in Denver. In addition to daily sports reports on the station, Roach also served as pre-game host, sideline reporter, and postgame interviewer for the Denver Broncos Radio Network, where KOA was the network's flagship station. He was dismissed from KOA in June 2015.\n\nRoach's first sports announcing job was as the public address announcer for the Colorado Springs Sky Sox in 1990. He was asked to fill in for the regular PA announcer during a vacation; the former announcer never got his job back. Since then, Roach has become one of the most heard sports event public address announcers in the world.\n\nRoach was hired as the public address announcer for the Colorado Rockies prior to the first game they played as a franchise in 1993. Roach served as PA announcer for every home game in Mile High Stadium and later Coors Field through the 2006 MLB season. Roach missed only one game in 14 years: Saturday, June 9, 2001. Roach began as public address announcer for the Colorado Avalanche with their first game played in Pepsi Center for the 1999-2000 season. On June 9, 2001 Roach missed the Rockies game to announce the historic Stanley Cup Game 7 win over the New Jersey Devils. He announced the post-game ceremony in which Joe Sakic famously handed the Stanley Cup to Ray Bourque. Roach continues as the public address announcer for the Avalanche today. The Colorado Avalanche hosted the 2001 NHL All-Star game. Roach served as PA announcer for that game and the following NHL All-star games in Sunrise, Florida in 2003 and in St. Paul, Minnesota in 2004.\n\nRoach's hockey announcing goes well beyond the NHL. Roach served as English-speaking public address announcer for all men's Olympic hockey games at the E-Center in Salt Lake City, Utah for the 2002 Winter Olympic Games. Roach was at the mic for the historic gold medal win by the Canadians over Team USA on February 24, 2002. Roach also announced hockey in Turin, Italy at the 2006 Winter Olympic Games at Torino Palasport Olimpico. Roach was English announcer during the women's gold medal game won by Canada, 4-1 over Sweden, on February 20, 2006. One day later, Roach was at the mic again for what is widely considered as one of the best hockey games of all time, the 2006 men's gold medal game won by Sweden 3-2 over Finland. 4 years later, Roach was also heard in Canada Hockey Place in Vancouver announcing men's and women's games at the 2010 Winter Olympic Games. Roach announced the Canadian women's gold medal win over Team USA on February 25, 2010. Roach was at the mic one more time in Sochi, Russia for the 2014 Olympic Winter Games hockey match between Team Russia and Team USA when TJ Oshie took the game-winning shot as the Americans beat the Russians on February 15, 2014. Roach also announced the gold medal win by the Canadians over Sweden, and the Swiss women's hockey team's first ever medal, a bronze, on February 22, 2014.\n\nRoach handled public address announcing duties for Super Bowls from 2006 - 2013, starting with Super Bowl XL in Detroit through Super Bowl XLVII in New Orleans, Louisiana. Fans did not get to hear Roach's voice during the 2014 Super Bowl, as the NFL cited a potential competitive advantage for the Broncos having their regular P.A. announcer be the announcer at the Super Bowl. The same situation presented itself in 2016, as the Denver Broncos played the Carolina Panthers in Super Bowl 50. As the voice of NFL events, Roach is heard annually at league events like the NFL Draft, Pro Football Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony, NFL International Series in London, England, Pro Bowl, and the Super Bowl. Roach resumed PA duties at Super Bowl LI in 2017.\n\nIn the summer of 2016, after 16 seasons as the stadium voice for the Denver Broncos, Roach left Broncos Country and returned to his childhood home of Minnesota to announce for the Minnesota Vikings as the team moved to their new home, U.S. Bank Stadium, in August 2016.\n\nIn addition to sports announcing, Roach is also lent his voice for many voice-over projects, none heard more than his voiceover of the underground train system at Denver International Airport, along with local 9News anchor Adele Arakawa.\n\nIn February 2018, Roach was re-elected to be the male voice for the underground train system at Denver International Airport. Local 9News anchor Kim Christiansen was selected as the female voice to replace her former colleague from 9News, Adele Arakawa.\n\n"}
{"id": "6851487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6851487", "title": "Alimzhan Tokhtakhunov", "text": "Alimzhan Tokhtakhunov\n\nAlimzhan Tursunovich Tokhtakhounov (; born 1 January 1949) is a Russian businessman, suspected criminal, and former sportsman. He is accused in relations with organized crime and bribing of figure skating judges in the 2002 Winter Olympics. His nickname is thought to be \"Taiwanchik\" (), which refers to his distinctly Asiatic, as opposed to European, facial features.\n\nTokhtakhounov was born to an Uyghur family in Tashkent, Uzbek SSR, in 1949. In early years he was an amateur football player, playing for junior team of Pakhtakor in some seasons. His attempts to continue his career in CSKA Moscow failed and he soon ceased to play. Tokhtakhounov was twice imprisoned: in 1972 and in 1985 for \"parasitism\".\n\nIn the early 1990s, he left Russia and settled in Paris, France. There he was soon accused in committing illegal business deals and smuggling of hardware from Germany. He was also reported to have relations with the Russian mafia, including ethnic Georgian mobster Tariel Oniani.\n\nIn 2002, Tokhtakhounov was accused in bribery of ice skating judges in the 2002 Winter Olympics.<ref name=\"Toobin_2/19/2018\"></ref> He was arrested in Italy by US request, but the Italian court denounced the extradition bid and freed Tokhtakhounov.\n\nIn Russia he was investigated about the legality of his Russian citizenship.\n\nHe is notably close to professional Russian tennis players. For instance, a 2002 article in the Belgium daily \"La Libre Belgique\" reported on interviews of Russian players following Tokhtakhounov's arrest in Italy. Yevgeny Kafelnikov defended his \"friend\", Marat Safin refused to discuss a topic that was \"not his problem\" while Anna Kournikova commented \"I have heard of this man. But I don't think I should talk about it. I am Russian and I will have to go back there\".\n\nThe United States has a current arrest warrant out for him on fraud-related charges. In 2010, Alimzhan featured in the 2010 documentary \"Thieves by Law\". He lives openly in Russia.\n\nIn 2013, Tokhtakhunov was charged with running an illegal gambling ring based from the United States.\n\nAccording to ABC News, he was caught up in \nan FBI investigation of \"a sophisticated Russian organized crime money-laundering network that operated out of unit 63A in Trump Tower in New York.\" The FBI investigation led to a federal grand jury indictment of more than 30 people, including Tokhtakhounov, who escaped arrest and remains a fugitive from American justice. \n\n"}
{"id": "2873312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2873312", "title": "Anonymous sex", "text": "Anonymous sex\n\nAnonymous sex is a form of one-night stand or casual sex between people who have very little or no history with each other, often engaging in sexual activity on the same day of their meeting and usually never seeing each other again afterwards. The term \"cruising for sex\" is used to refer to a person searching for sexual activity with another person, usually anonymously. The internet is also a primary vehicle for people setting up anonymous sex. Anonymous sex is sometimes considered to be a form of prostitution when it involves an exchange of money or drugs for sex.\n\nSome people engage in anonymous sex because of the thrill of the act.\n\nAnonymous sex is one of the highest-risk sexual activities, both as the sexual history of both partners are unknown to the other, and also because those engaging in anonymous sex are more likely to have had a large number of partners.\n\n"}
{"id": "2731984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2731984", "title": "Asháninka", "text": "Asháninka\n\nThe Asháninka or Asháninca are an indigenous people living in the rainforests of Peru and in the State of Acre, Brazil. Their ancestral lands are in the forests of Junín, Pasco, Huánuco and part of Ucayali in Peru.\n\nThe Asháninka are estimated between 25,000 and 45,000. Only a few hundred of these live on the Brazilian side of the border. The Ashaninka communities are scattered throughout the central rainforests of Peru in the Provinces of Junin, Pasco, Huanuco and a part of Ucayali, and the state of Acre.\n\nThe Asháninka are mostly dependent on subsistence agriculture. They use the slash-and-burn method to clear lands and to plant yucca roots, sweet potato, corn, bananas, rice, coffee, cacao and sugar cane in biodiversity-friendly techniques. They live from hunting and fishing, primarily using bows and arrows or spears, as well as from collecting fruit and vegetables in the jungle.\n\nThe Asháninka were known by the Incas as \"Anti\" or \"Campa\". The Antis, who gave their name to the Inca province of Antisuyu, were notorious for their fierce independence, and their warlike skills in successfully protecting their land and culture against intrusion from outsiders.\n\nAshanínka tribal societies have faced overwhelming obstacles in disputes over territory and culture against the immigrating Spanish culture and neighboring tribal societies .Biodiversity is the establishment of the Ashanínka way of life, so they treat this biodiversity hotspot as their 'natural capital.'In AD 1542 the European settlers pushed to overtake the natural resources .In June 2010, however, the Brazilian and Peruvian governments signed an energy agreement that allows Brazilian companies to build a series of large dams in the Brazilian, Peruvian, and Bolivian Amazon.\" The problem with the 2,000-megawatt Pakitzapango Dam is that it has a permanent location that is proposed to be located in the heart of Peru's Ene valley could displace as many as 10,000 Ashanínka. These encroaching problems have not only extremely changed the generational culture of the Ashanínka tribal societies, but has also changed landscape of what we call modern-day Peru.\n\nThe Asháninka traditional dress, commonly known as a \"kushma\" from, is a robe made from cotton that is collected, spun, dyed and woven by women on looms. Typically the robes are dyed either brown or a bright royal blue. The shoulders of the garments are ornamented with seeds. A full length robe can take up to three months to complete.\nTraditionally, women wear their hair long, and over the shoulder, While typically men wear their hair short or in \"bowl\" cuts below the ear. Around their necks they wear a large variety of necklaces and bracelets made with seeds, the teeth of tapir, peccary and monkeys, and brightly colored feathers.\nTraditionally the Asháninka men, women and children paint their faces in a variety of designs using the bright red crushed seeds of \"Achiote\" (\"Bixa orellana\") (annatto) fruits. For ceremonial purposes, the men also wear woven circles of palm leaves decorated with feathers on their heads, and the women wear a woven cotton head dress.\n\nThe Asháninka are known historically to be fiercely independent, and were noted for their \"bravery and independence\" by the Spanish conquistadors. During the rubber boom (1839–1913), the Asháninka were enslaved by rubber tappers and an estimated 80% of the Asháninka population was killed.\n\nFor over a century, there has been encroachment onto Asháninka land from rubber tappers, loggers, Maoist guerrillas, drug traffickers, colonisers, and oil companies.\n\nMalaria is on the rise in Asháninka communities.Current threats (either directly or indirectly) are from oil companies, drug traffickers, colonists, illegal lumberers, illegal roads, and diseases brought by outsiders.\n"}
{"id": "57950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57950", "title": "Chukchi people", "text": "Chukchi people\n\nThe Chukchi, or Chukchee (, ), are an indigenous people inhabiting the Chukchi Peninsula and the shores of the Chukchi Sea and the Bering Sea region of the Arctic Ocean within the Russian Federation. They speak the Chukchi language. The Chukchi originated from the people living around the Okhotsk Sea. According to most recent genomic research (\"Who we are and how we got here. Ancient DNA and the New Science of the human past\", by David Reich. Pantheon books, New York, 2018), Chukchi people are the closest cousins of the First Americans in Asia.\n\nThe majority of Chukchi reside within Chukotka Autonomous Okrug, but some also reside in the neighbouring Sakha Republic to the west, Magadan Oblast to the southwest, and Koryak Autonomous Okrug to the south. Some Chukchi also reside in other parts of Russia, as well as in Europe and North America. The total number of Chukchi in the world slightly exceeds 16,000.\n\nThe Chukchi are traditionally divided into the \"Maritime Chukchi\", who had settled homes on the coast and lived primarily from sea mammal hunting, and the \"Reindeer Chukchi\", who lived as nomads in the inland tundra region, migrating seasonally with their herds of reindeer. The Russian name \"Chukchi\" is derived from the Chukchi word \"Chauchu\" (\"rich in reindeer\"), which was used by the 'Reindeer Chukchi' to distinguish themselves from the 'Maritime Chukchi,' called \"Anqallyt\" (\"the sea people\"). Their name for a member of the Chukchi ethnic group as a whole is \"Luoravetlan\" (literally 'true person').\n\nIn Chukchi religion, every object, whether animate or inanimate, is assigned a spirit. This spirit can be either harmful or benevolent. Some of Chukchi myths reveal a dualistic cosmology.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Soviet Union, the state-run farms were reorganized and nominally privatized. This process was ultimately destructive to the village-based economy in Chukotka. The region has still not fully recovered. Many rural Chukchi, as well as Russians in Chukotka's villages, have survived in recent years only with the help of direct humanitarian aid. Some Chukchi have attained university degrees, becoming poets, writers, politicians, teachers and doctors.\n\nIn prehistoric times, the Chukchi engaged in nomadic hunter gatherer modes of existence. In current times, there continue to be some elements of subsistence hunting, including that of polar bears, marine mammals and reindeer. Beginning in the 1920s, the Soviets organized the economic activities of both coastal and inland Chukchi and eventually established 28 collectively run, state-owned enterprises in Chukotka. All of these were based on reindeer herding, with the addition of sea mammal hunting and walrus ivory carving in the coastal areas. Chukchi were educated in Soviet schools and today are almost 100% literate and fluent in the Russian language. Only a portion of them today work directly in reindeer herding or sea mammal hunting, and continue to live a nomadic lifestyle in yaranga tents.\n\nRussians first began contacting the Chukchi when they reached the Kolyma River (1643) and the Anadyr River (1649). The route from Nizhnekolymsk to the fort at Anadyrsk along the southwest of the main Chukchi area became a major trade route. The overland journey from Yakutsk to Anadyrsk took about six months.\nThe Chukchi were generally ignored for the next 50 years because they were warlike and had few furs. Fighting flared up around 1700 when the Russians began operating in the Kamchatka Peninsula and needed to protect their communications from the Chukchi and Koryak. The first attempt to conquer them was made in 1701. Other expeditions were sent out in 1708, 1709 and 1711 with considerable bloodshed but little success. War was renewed in 1729, when the Chukchi defeated an expedition from Okhotsk and killed its commander. Command passed to Major Dmitry Pavlutsky, who adopted very destructive tactics, burning, killing, driving off reindeer, and capturing women and children. In 1742, the government at Saint Petersburg ordered another war in which the Chukchi and Koryak were to be \"totally extirpated\". The war (1744–7) was conducted with similar brutality and ended when Pavlutsky was killed in March 1747. It is said that the Chukchi kept his head as a trophy for a number of years. The Russians waged war again in the 1750s.\n\nIn 1762, Saint Petersburg adopted a different policy. Maintaining the fort at Anadyrsk had cost some 1,380,000 rubles, but the area had returned only 29,150 rubles in taxes, the government abandoned Anadyrsk in 1764. The Chukchi, no longer provoked, began to trade peacefully with the Russians. From 1788, they participated in an annual trade fair on the lower Kolyma. Another was established in 1775 on the Angarka, a tributary of the Bolshoy Anyuy River. This trade declined in the late 19th century when American whalers and others began landing goods on the coast. The first Orthodox missionaries entered Chukchi territory some time after 1815.\n\nApart from four Orthodox schools, there were no schools in the Chukchi land until the late 1920s. In 1926, there were 72 literate Chukchis. The Soviets introduced a Latin alphabet in 1932, replacing it with Cyrillic in 1937. In 1934, 71% of the Chukchis were nomadic. In 1941, 90% of the reindeer were still privately owned. So-called kulaks roamed with their private herds up into the 1950s. After 1990 and the fall of the Soviet Union, there was a major exodus of Russians from the area.\n\nPopulation estimates from Forsyth:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3481380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3481380", "title": "Cocalero", "text": "Cocalero\n\nCocaleros are the coca leaf growers of Peru and Bolivia. In response to U.S.-funded attempts to eradicate and fumigate coca crops in the Chapare region of Bolivia, cocaleros joined with other grassroots indigenous organizations in the country, such as unionized mine workers and peasants to contest the government. Evo Morales, who became president of Bolivia in 2006, is a leader of the cocalero movement in that country.\n\nCoca has been cultivated for 8,000 years by indigenous people in the Andes for medicinal and religious reasons. As a stimulant, it is helpful in overcoming altitude sickness in the high Andes, and can be chewed and made into tea. Other medicinal uses include pain relief, staunching blood flow, combating malaria, ulcers, asthma and improving digestion. It is also configured in many religious ceremonies as offerings to Apus, Inti, and the Pachamama and as a method of divination. \n\nIt was introduced to Europe in the 16th century, but it was not until the mid-19th century that it began to be refined into cocaine. Its cultivation was prohibited by Bolivian law, except in the region of Yungas despite its affinity to the climate and land of the Chapare region. Coca crops in Chapare were thus targeted for eradication. Because coca and cocaine were being trafficked up through South and Central America to the United States, coca production in South America came to the attention of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, which, subsequently under Plan Colombia, began to fund eradication efforts across the continent. Plan Colombia sent hundreds of millions of dollars in military aid, training and equipment to Central and South American countries, thereby militarizing the region and local and national governments' responses to coca production. Cocaleros who make their livings growing and selling coca were the most negatively affected by the policies, as their crops were burned, ripped up, or sprayed with herbicide. \n\nCoca producers are left with few alternatives for subsistence, and therefore call for the legalization of coca. Also the anti-drug militancy has targeted left wing guerrilla groups like the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia and gangs who are involved in the drug trade. In 1987, UMOPAR, La Unidad Móvil Policial para Áreas Rurales, was formed as an anti-narcotic counterinsurgency force in Bolivia. It received training and monetary aid from the American Drug Enforcement Administration and led raids on coca fields and suppressed cocalero organizing.\n\nBolivia is a multiethnic, majority indigenous country in South America. Among over three dozen Amerindian nations, the most prominent are the Quechuas, Aymaras, Chiquitanos, Guaranís, and Mojeños. White and mestizo Bolivians have traditionally held power in the country since the time of colonization. For hundreds of years indigenous people were employed by mines that exported the country's mineral wealth abroad, first to Spain and then to other parts of quickly industrializing countries such as the U.S. and Western Europe following independence in 1809. \n\nIn the 1980s, the Bolivian Mining Corporation closed many mines, which forced many former miners into coca production. Not only did coca farming provide a living for the ex-miners, but the turn from wage labor to farming allowed for more political organization. Many of the organizations formed during this time period such as the Confederation of Indigenous Peoples of Bolivia later joined forces with the Confederación Sindical Única de Trabajadores Campesinos de Bolivia, the Confederación Sindical de Colonizadores de Bolivia to form the beginnings of the Movimiento al Socialismo, the Party of Evo Morales. Among major mobilizations since its inception, the Confederation of Indigenous Peoples of Bolivia has played a part in marches for land reform, indigenous autonomy, and for a plurinational state.\n\nMovement for Socialism - Political Instrument for the Sovereignty of the Peoples (In Spanish \"Movimiento al Socialismo-Instrumento Político por la Soberanía de los Pueblos\") or MAS rose as a left-wing populist political organization to support the preservation of the coca plant and the cocalero economy. It grew out of and gained support from the indigenous grassroots organizations that began to coalesce following the closure of mines and the criminalization of the coca plant and indigenous cocaleros. \n\nCarlos Mesa, the president of Bolivia from October 17, 2003 to June 6, 2005, presided over several controversies that mobilized the indigenous grassroots organizations against the government, notably the Bolivian Gas Conflict which drew momentum from the Cochabamba Water Wars. Both of these conflicts centered on disputes between the indigenous population and the government over control of resources, which has long defined Bolivia's relation to the so-called first world. Mesa hastily resigned, opening up the country for elections. The momentum of the MAS party led to the successful election of Evo Morales, a cocalero union organizer, with a 54% absolute majority.\n\n"}
{"id": "34154970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34154970", "title": "Criminology", "text": "Criminology\n\nCriminology (from Latin , \"accusation\" originally derived from the Ancient Greek verb \"krino\" \"κρίνω\", and Ancient Greek , \"-logy|-logia\", from \"logos\" meaning: “word,” “reason,” or “plan”) is the scientific study of the nature, extent, management, causes, control, consequences, and prevention of criminal behavior, both on individual and social levels. Criminology is an interdisciplinary field in both the behavioral and social sciences, drawing especially upon the research of sociologists, psychologists, philosophers, psychiatrists, biologists, social anthropologists, as well as scholars of law.\n\nThe term \"criminology\" was coined in 1885 by Italian law professor Raffaele Garofalo as \".\" Later, French anthropologist Paul Topinard used the analogous French term \".\"\n\nIn the United States for the past 100 years, criminology has experienced three life course phases : (1) Golden Age of Research (1900-1930) which has been described as multiple-factor approach, (2) Golden Age of Theory (1930-1960) which shows that they were no systematic way of connecting criminological research to theory, and 1960-2000 period as seen as a significant turning point for criminology.\n\nIn the mid-18th century, criminology arose as social philosophers gave thought to crime and concepts of law. Over time, several schools of thought have developed. There were three main schools of thought in early criminological theory spanning the period from the mid-18th century to the mid-twentieth century: Classical, Positivist, and Chicago. These schools of thought were superseded by several contemporary paradigms of criminology, such as the sub-culture, control, strain, labeling, critical criminology, cultural criminology, postmodern criminology, feminist criminology and others discussed below.\n\nThe Classical school arose in the mid-18th century and has its basis in utilitarian philosophy. Cesare Beccaria, author of \"On Crimes and Punishments\" (1763–64), Jeremy Bentham (inventor of the \"panopticon\"), and other philosophers in this school argued:\nThis school developed during a major reform in penology, when society began designing prisons for the sake of extreme punishment. This period also saw many legal reforms, the French Revolution, and the development of the legal system in the United States.\n\nThe Positivist school argues criminal behavior comes from internal and external factors out of the individual's control. Philosophers within this school applied the scientific method to study human behavior. Positivism comprises three segments: biological, psychological and social positivism.\n\nCesare Lombroso (1835–1909), an Italian sociologist working in the late 19th century, is often called \"the father of criminology.\" He was one of the key contributors to biological positivism and founded the Italian school of criminology. Lombroso took a scientific approach, insisting on empirical evidence for studying crime. He suggested physiological traits such as the measurements of cheek bones or hairline, or a cleft palate could indicate \"atavistic\" criminal tendencies. This approach, whose influence came via the theory of phrenology and by Charles Darwin's theory of evolution, has been superseded. Enrico Ferri, a student of Lombroso, believed social as well as biological factors played a role, and believed criminals should not be held responsible when factors causing their criminality were beyond their control. Criminologists have since rejected Lombroso's biological theories, since control groups were not used in his studies.\n\nSociological positivism suggests societal factors such as poverty, membership of subcultures, or low levels of education predispose people to crime. Adolphe Quetelet used data and statistical analysis to study the relationship between crime and sociological factors. He found age, gender, poverty, education, and alcohol consumption were important factors to crime. Lance Lochner performed three different research experiments, each one proving education reduces crime. Rawson W. Rawson used crime statistics to suggest a link between population density and crime rates, with crowded cities producing more crime. Joseph Fletcher and John Glyde read papers to the Statistical Society of London on their studies of crime and its distribution. Henry Mayhew used empirical methods and an ethnographic approach to address social questions and poverty, and gave his studies in \"London Labour and the London Poor\". Émile Durkheim viewed crime as an inevitable aspect of a society with uneven distribution of wealth and other differences among people.\n\nPeople learn crime through association. This theory was advocated by Edwin Sutherland. These acts may condone criminal conduct, or justify crime under specific circumstances. Interacting with antisocial peers is a major cause. Reinforcing criminal behavior makes it chronic. Where there are criminal subcultures, many individuals learn crime, and crime rates swell in those areas.\n\nThe Chicago school arose in the early twentieth century, through the work of Robert E. Park, Ernest Burgess, and other urban sociologists at the University of Chicago. In the 1920s, Park and Burgess identified five concentric zones that often exist as cities grow, including the \"zone of transition\", which was identified as the most volatile and subject to disorder. In the 1940s, Henry McKay and Clifford R. Shaw focused on juvenile delinquents, finding that they were concentrated in the zone of transition.\n\nChicago school sociologists adopted a social ecology approach to studying cities and postulated that urban neighborhoods with high levels of poverty often experience breakdown in the social structure and institutions such as family and schools. This results in social disorganization, which reduces the ability of these institutions to control behavior and creates an environment ripe for deviant behavior.\n\nOther researchers suggested an added social-psychological link. Edwin Sutherland suggested that people learn criminal behavior from older, more experienced criminals with whom they may associate.\n\nTheoretical perspectives used in criminology include psychoanalysis, functionalism, interactionism, Marxism, econometrics, systems theory, postmodernism, genetics, neuropsychology, evolutionary psychology, etc.\n\nThis theory is applied to a variety of approaches within the bases of criminology in particular and in sociology more generally as a conflict theory or structural conflict perspective in sociology and sociology of crime. As this perspective is itself broad enough, embracing as it does a diversity of positions.\n\nSocial disorganization theory is based on the work of Henry McKay and Clifford R. Shaw of the Chicago School. Social disorganization theory postulates that neighborhoods plagued with poverty and economic deprivation tend to experience high rates of population turnover. This theory suggests that crime and deviance is valued within groups in society, ‘subcultures’ or ‘gangs’. These groups have different values to the social norm. These neighborhoods also tend to have high population heterogeneity. With high turnover, informal social structure often fails to develop, which in turn makes it difficult to maintain social order in a community.\n\nSince the 1950s, social ecology studies have built on the social disorganization theories. Many studies have found that crime rates are associated with poverty, disorder, high numbers of abandoned buildings, and other signs of community deterioration. As working and middle-class people leave deteriorating neighborhoods, the most disadvantaged portions of the population may remain. William Julius Wilson suggested a poverty \"concentration effect\", which may cause neighborhoods to be isolated from the mainstream of society and become prone to violence.\n\nStrain theory, also known as Mertonian Anomie, advanced by American sociologist Robert Merton, suggests that mainstream culture, especially in the United States, is saturated with dreams of opportunity, freedom, and prosperity—as Merton put it, the \"American Dream\". Most people buy into this dream, and it becomes a powerful cultural and psychological motivator. Merton also used the term \"anomie\", but it meant something slightly different for him than it did for Durkheim. Merton saw the term as meaning a dichotomy between what society expected of its citizens and what those citizens could actually achieve. Therefore, if the social structure of opportunities is unequal and prevents the majority from realizing the dream, some of those dejected will turn to illegitimate means (crime) in order to realize it. Others will retreat or drop out into deviant subcultures (such as gang members, or what he calls \"hobos\"). Robert Agnew developed this theory further to include types of strain which were not derived from financial constraints. This is known as general strain theory\".\n\nMessner and Rosenfeld Institutional Anomie Theory\n\n\"Main article: Messner and Institutional Anomie Theory\"\n\nThe Messner and Rosenfeld Institutional Theory stems from a pre-existing theory, discovered by Merton named Strain theory. Rosenberger took his findings and offered a different approach to definition and based it on the assumption that everybody should already have \"the assumption that the “American Dream” produces a society that is dominated by the economy and obsessed with the pursuit of success.\" The Messner and Rosenfeld Institutional Theory has many different views and definitions by many people therefore this becomes a very flexible theory.\n\nLarine Hughes found a correlation between economic pressure and how it combines the \"American Dream\" and \"Individualism\" to a high crime. Hughes came to final decision that \"Therefore, individuals that do not have the drive to succeed and achieve this “goal” will fail, despite social and cultural pressures.\n\nSamantha Applin, then took an approached relating genders and The Messner and Rosenfeld Institutional Theory. Stated in an article by S. Applin, \"males make up what is considered “normal subjects”, and due to this, force woman to lie on a boundary that expectation is outside the dominant cultural frame.\" Therefore, setting women back in the beginning stages of Messner and Rosenfeld Institutional Theory.\n\nBrian Stults began to research studies on the violence between youth and the correlation that it  has on Messner and Rosenfeld Institutional Anomie Theory. Stults found sated \" As well as the results showed graduating high school represents an important developmental stage in American society, as it ends the compulsory education, and is often followed by a significant decline in daily need and extra resources from your parents.\"\n\nFollowing the Chicago school and strain theory, and also drawing on Edwin Sutherland's idea of differential association, subcultural theorists focused on small cultural groups fragmenting away from the mainstream to form their own values and meanings about life.\n\nAlbert K. Cohen tied anomie theory with Sigmund Freud's reaction formation idea, suggesting that delinquency among lower class youths is a reaction against the social norms of the middle class. Some youth, especially from poorer areas where opportunities are scarce, might adopt social norms specific to those places that may include \"toughness\" and disrespect for authority. Criminal acts may result when youths conform to norms of the deviant subculture.\n\nRichard Cloward and Lloyd Ohlin suggested that delinquency can result from a differential opportunity for lower class youth. Such youths may be tempted to take up criminal activities, choosing an illegitimate path that provides them more lucrative economic benefits than conventional, over legal options such as minimum wage-paying jobs available to them.\n\nDelinquency tends to occur among the lower working-class males who have a lack of resources available to them and live in impoverished areas, as mentioned extensively by Albert Cohen (Cohen, 1965). Bias has been known to occur among law enforcement agencies, where officers tend to place bias on minority groups, without knowing for sure if they had committed a crime or not. Delinquents may also commit crimes in order to secure funds for themselves or their loved ones, such as committing an armed robbery, as studied by many scholars (Briar & Piliavin).\n\nBritish subcultural theorists focused more heavily on the issue of class, where some criminal activities were seen as \"imaginary solutions\" to the problem of belonging to a subordinate class. A further study by the Chicago school looked at gangs and the influence of the interaction of gang leaders under the observation of adults.\n\nSociologists such as Raymond D. Gastil have explored the impact of a Southern culture of honor on violent crime rates.\n\nAnother approach is made by the social bond or social control theory. Instead of looking for factors that make people become criminal, these theories try to explain why people do \"not\" become criminal. Travis Hirschi identified four main characteristics: \"attachment to others\", \"belief in moral validity of rules\", \"commitment to achievement\", and \"involvement in conventional activities\". The more a person features those characteristics, the less likely he or she is to become deviant (or criminal). On the other hand, if these factors are not present, a person is more likely to become a criminal. Hirschi expanded on this theory with the idea that a person with low self control is more likely to become criminal. As opposed to most criminology theories, these do not look at why people commit crime but rather why they do not commit crime.\n\nA simple example: Someone wants a big yacht but does not have the means to buy one. If the person cannot exert self-control, he or she might try to get the yacht (or the means for it) in an illegal way, whereas someone with high self-control will (more likely) either wait, deny themselves of what want or seek an intelligent intermediate solution, such as joining a yacht club to use a yacht by group consolidation of resources without violating social norms.\n\nSocial bonds, through peers, parents, and others can have a countering effect on one's low self-control. For families of low socio-economic status, a factor that distinguishes families with delinquent children, from those who are not delinquent, is the control exerted by parents or chaperonage. In addition, theorists such as David Matza and Gresham Sykes argued that criminals are able to temporarily neutralize internal moral and social behavioral constraints through techniques of neutralization.\n\nPsychoanalysis is the system of psychological theory and therapy looking towards the investigation of the conscious and unconscious mind elements, along with repressed memories that can be taken back into consciousness. Sigmund Freud talks about how the unconscious desire for pain relates to psychoanalysis in his novel, \"Beyond the Pleasure Principle,\" which was interpreted by Hubback. Freud looks into research indicating a ‘repetition compulsion’ and a ‘death drive’ which is the unconscious impulse that one may get to become self-destructive and actually have the ability to take over the creativity drive within someone. Phillida Rosnick, author of the article \"Mental Pain and Social Trauma,\" looks into the mental state of someone who has experienced extreme trauma.  They discovered there is a difference in the actions and thoughts of individuals suffering traumatic unconscious pain and this corresponds to them having thoughts and feelings that are unlike their normal selves. By looking at the unconscious within a paranoid state of mind from trauma, there is a direct correlation to how this behavior can cause criminals to act in deviant ways based on their brain structure and how their unconscious is taking information. Sander Gilman, the author of the article \"Freud and the Making of Psychoanalysis\", actually looks into the physical mechanisms of the human brain and the nervous system relating to the impulses that someone might feel and the impulses that might cause someone to unconsciously desire pain. Gilman speaks to Freud’s position on the various issues of the mind and the potential discovery from looking at the brain and interpreting data about the unconscious mind and the Eros within the brain. By looking at how psychoanalysis and the unconscious desire for pain relate to each other, there is more evidence as to how it can occur within criminals and how these impulses or the innate desires within an individual can ultimately be the cause of deviant acts.\n\nSymbolic interactionism draws on the phenomenology of Edmund Husserl and George Herbert Mead, as well as subcultural theory and conflict theory. This school of thought focused on the relationship between state, media, and conservative-ruling elite and other less powerful groups. The powerful groups had the ability to become the \"significant other\" in the less powerful groups' processes of generating meaning. The former could to some extent impose their meanings on the latter; therefore they were able to \"label\" minor delinquent youngsters as criminal. These youngsters would often take the label on board, indulge in crime more readily, and become actors in the \"self-fulfilling prophecy\" of the powerful groups. Later developments in this set of theories were by Howard Becker and Edwin Lemert, in the mid-20th century. Stanley Cohen developed the concept of \"moral panic\" describing societal reaction to spectacular, alarming social phenomena (e.g. post-World War 2 youth cultures like the Mods and Rockers in the UK in 1964, AIDS epidemic and football hooliganism).\n\nLabelling theory refers to an individual who is labelled in a particular way and was studied in great detail by Becker. It arrives originally from sociology but is regularly used in criminological studies. It is said that when someone is given the label of a criminal they may reject or accept it and continue to commit crime. Even those who initially reject the label can eventually accept it as the label becomes more well known, particularly among their peers. This stigma can become even more profound when the labels are about deviancy, and it is thought that this stigmatization can lead to deviancy amplification. Malcolm Klein conducted a test which showed that labelling theory affected some youth offenders but not others.\n\nAt the other side of the spectrum, criminologist Lonnie Athens developed a theory about how a process of brutalization by parents or peers that usually occurs in childhood results in violent crimes in adulthood. Richard Rhodes' \"Why They Kill\" describes Athens' observations about domestic and societal violence in the criminals' backgrounds. Both Athens and Rhodes reject the genetic inheritance theories.\n\nRational choice theory is based on the utilitarian, classical school philosophies of Cesare Beccaria, which were popularized by Jeremy Bentham. They argued that punishment, if certain, swift, and proportionate to the crime, was a deterrent for crime, with risks outweighing possible benefits to the offender. In \"Dei delitti e delle pene\" (On Crimes and Punishments, 1763–1764), Beccaria advocated a rational penology. Beccaria conceived of punishment as the necessary application of the law for a crime; thus, the judge was simply to conform his or her sentence to the law. Beccaria also distinguished between crime and sin, and advocated against the death penalty, as well as torture and inhumane treatments, as he did not consider them as rational deterrents.\n\nThis philosophy was replaced by the positivist and Chicago schools and was not revived until the 1970s with the writings of James Q. Wilson, Gary Becker's 1965 article \"Crime and Punishment\" and George Stigler's 1970 article \"The Optimum Enforcement of Laws\". Rational choice theory argues that criminals, like other people, weigh costs or risks and benefits when deciding whether to commit crime and think in economic terms. They will also try to minimize risks of crime by considering the time, place, and other situational factors.\n\nBecker, for example, acknowledged that many people operate under a high moral and ethical constraint but considered that criminals rationally see that the benefits of their crime outweigh the cost, such as the probability of apprehension and conviction, severity of punishment, as well as their current set of opportunities. From the public policy perspective, since the cost of increasing the fine is marginal to that of the cost of increasing surveillance, one can conclude that the best policy is to maximize the fine and minimize surveillance.\n\nWith this perspective, crime prevention or reduction measures can be devised to increase the effort required to commit the crime, such as target hardening. Rational choice theories also suggest that increasing risk and likelihood of being caught, through added surveillance, law enforcement presence, added street lighting, and other measures, are effective in reducing crime.\n\nOne of the main differences between this theory and Bentham's rational choice theory, which had been abandoned in criminology, is that if Bentham considered it possible to completely annihilate crime (through the panopticon), Becker's theory acknowledged that a society could not eradicate crime beneath a certain level. For example, if 25% of a supermarket's products were stolen, it would be very easy to reduce this rate to 15%, quite easy to reduce it until 5%, difficult to reduce it under 3% and nearly impossible to reduce it to zero (a feat which the measures required would cost the supermarket so much that it would outweigh the benefits). This reveals that the goals of utilitarianism and classical liberalism have to be tempered and reduced to more modest proposals to be practically applicable.\n\nSuch rational choice theories, linked to neoliberalism, have been at the basics of crime prevention through environmental design and underpin the Market Reduction Approach to theft by Mike Sutton, which is a systematic toolkit for those seeking to focus attention on \"crime facilitators\" by tackling the markets for stolen goods that provide motivation for thieves to supply them by theft.\n\nRoutine activity theory, developed by Marcus Felson and Lawrence Cohen, draws upon control theories and explains crime in terms of crime opportunities that occur in everyday life. A crime opportunity requires that elements converge in time and place including a motivated offender, suitable target or victim, and lack of a capable guardian. A guardian at a place, such as a street, could include security guards or even ordinary pedestrians who would witness the criminal act and possibly intervene or report it to law enforcement. Routine activity theory was expanded by John Eck, who added a fourth element of \"place manager\" such as rental property managers who can take nuisance abatement measures.\n\nBiosocial criminology is an interdisciplinary field that aims to explain crime and antisocial behavior by exploring both biological factors and environmental factors. While contemporary criminology has been dominated by sociological theories, biosocial criminology also recognizes the potential contributions of fields such as genetics, neuropsychology, and evolutionary psychology.\n\nAggressive behavior has been associated with abnormalities in three principal regulatory systems in the body: serotonin systems, catecholamine systems, and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis. Abnormalities in these systems also are known to be induced by stress, either severe, acute stress or chronic low-grade stress.\n\nIn 1968, young British sociologists formed the National Deviance Conference (NDC) group. The group was restricted to academics and consisted of 300 members. Ian Taylor, Paul Walton and Jock Young – members of the NDC – rejected previous explanations of crime and deviance. Thus, they decided to pursue a new Marxist criminological approach. In \"The New Criminology\", they argued against the biological \"positivism\" perspective represented by Lombroso, Hans Eysenck and Gordon Trasler.\n\nAccording to the Marxist perspective on crime, \"defiance is normal – the sense that men are now consciously involved [...] in assuring their human diversity.\" Thus Marxists criminologists argued in support of society in which the facts of human diversity, be it social or personal, would not be criminalized. They further attributed the processes of crime creation not to genetic or psychological facts, but rather to the material basis of a given society.\n\nConvict criminology is a school of thought in the realm of criminology. Convict criminologists have been directly affected by the criminal justice system, oftentimes having spent years inside the prison system. Researchers in the field of convict criminology such as John Irwin and Stephan Richards argue that traditional criminology can better be understood by those who lived in the walls of a prison. Martin Leyva argues that \"prisonization\" oftentimes begins before prison, in the home, community, and schools.\n\nQueer criminology is a field of study that focuses on LGBT individuals and their interactions with the criminal justice system. The goals of this field of study are as follows:\n\nThe value of pursuing criminology from a queer theorist perspective is contested; some believe that it is not worth researching and not relevant to the field as a whole, and as a result is a subject that lacks a wide berth of research available. On the other hand, it could be argued that this subject is highly valuable in highlighting how LGBT individuals are affected by the criminal justice system. This research also has the opportunity to “queer” the curriculum of criminology in educational institutions by shifting the focus from controlling and monitoring LGBT communities to liberating and protecting them.\n\nBoth the positivist and classical schools take a consensus view of crime: that a crime is an act that violates the basic values and beliefs of society. Those values and beliefs are manifested as laws that society agrees upon. However, there are two types of laws:\n\nTherefore, definitions of crimes will vary from place to place, in accordance to the cultural norms and mores, but may be broadly classified as blue-collar crime, corporate crime, organized crime, political crime, public order crime, state crime, state-corporate crime, and white-collar crime. However, there have been moves in contemporary criminological theory to move away from liberal pluralism, culturalism and postmodernism by introducing the universal term \"harm\" into the criminological debate as a replacement for the legal term \"crime\".\n\nAreas of study in criminology include:\n\n\nBriar, S., & Piliavin, I. (1966). Delinquency, Situational Inducements, and Commitment to Conformity. Social Problems, 13 (3).\nCohen, A. K. (1965). The Sociology of the Deviant Act: Anomie Theory and Beyond. American Sociological Review, 30.\n\n"}
{"id": "34151671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34151671", "title": "Croats in the Czech Republic", "text": "Croats in the Czech Republic\n\nCroats are one of the 12 recognized minorities in the Czech Republic. They number 850 – 2,000. They have the right to use the Croatian language in communication with Czech authorities and government according to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Basic Freedoms of the Czech Republic. They form a portion of the 29% minority in the Czech Republic. They live primarily in Moravia, in the villages of Jevišovka (Frielištof), Dobré Pole (Dobro Polje) and Nový Přerov (Nova Prerava).\n\nThe ancestors of the Croats in the Czech Republic arrived in the 1500s from central Croatia, fleeing before the Ottoman Turks. The period of their settling is at the same time as the arrival of the Croats to Austria, Hungary and Slovakia, who are called the Burgenland Croats. The migration of the Croats to Moravia got the attention of ethnographers, linguists, and historians in that era. The first mention of Croats was at the end of the eighteenth century. They tried to explain the reasons for the migration of the Croats from their ancestral homeland. They believed that the colonization of the Croats started from the Croatian regions south of the Kupa and Petrova Gora, better known as Banska Krajina [or today Banovina], was summarized by Adolf Turek.\n\nThe Czech Croats lived without a main settlement in parts of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Germany and Austria. Once, it used to be a continuous string of villages, especially the so-called \"Croatian Corridor\", assimilation and repression was brought onto the local Croats which directly affected the ties of the Czech Croats with the other Croatians in the Diaspora, especially the Burgenland Croatians. In fact, this corridor was known as link a between the Western Slavs and the Southern Slavs, more precisely, Slovene-Croat-Serb state or later, the Kingdom of the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, and Czechoslovakia itself. Croat-Prague student groups thought of the idea of a \"Slavic corridor\" that went between Bratislava and Varazdin. Later, idea of a \"Croatian corridor\" was given life and personally published by Stjepan Radić. This idea as well as others that were national orientation, and started by the Croats ended ingloriously. However it did allow the creation of the Burgenland, the cradle of the Burgenland Croatians in neighboring Austria.\n\nA saying of the Czech Croats was \"We are a people of three languages.\" Of all the national minorities, only the Croats were trilingual. They spoke German, and Czech and nurtured Croatian at home. Considering that they often used Czech and German in schools, churches, public administration, the grammar and vocabulary of the Moravian Croats did not remain untouched. The Croatian Cakavian and Ikavian language was mixed with loan words of both Czech and German origins. Croatian is not studied in Czech schools, so the majority younger generation does not speak it. The older generation of Czech Croats preserved the language, culture, and customs by gathering in organizations and reading magazines in Croatian.\n\n"}
{"id": "2303812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303812", "title": "Dino Ciccarelli", "text": "Dino Ciccarelli\n\nDino Ciccarelli (born February 8, 1960) is a Canadian former professional hockey player who played 19 seasons in the National Hockey League, primarily with the Minnesota North Stars, but also notably with the Detroit Red Wings, with whom he had his third-highest scoring season. He scored 1,200 points in his NHL career. His 608 career NHL goals are also the most goals scored by a draft-eligible player who was not drafted by an NHL team. Ciccarelli was elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame in 2010.\n\nCiccarelli grew up playing minor hockey in his hometown of Sarnia, Ontario in the Southwestern Ontario Minor Hockey League of the Ontario Minor Hockey Association. He made Sarnia's Jr. 'B' hockey team as a 15-year-old in the fall of 1975 and ended up leading it in scoring with 45 goals and 43 assists for 88 points in just 40 games. He is one of two Sarnia Jr. 'B' graduates to go on to be elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame (the other being Phil Esposito, who led the Sarnia Legionnaires in scoring in 1961).\n\nCiccarelli joined the London Knights of the OMJHL as a 16-year-old for the 1976-77 season. In his first season with the Knights, Ciccarelli had 39 goals and 82 points in 66 games, finishing fifth in team scoring. In the playoffs, Ciccarelli had 11 goals and 24 points in 20 games, as London lost to the Ottawa 67's in the J. Ross Robertson Cup finals.\n\nIn his second season with the Knights in 1977-78, Ciccarelli scored a league high 72 goals, and added 70 assists for 142 points, which was third highest total in the OMJHL. In the post-season, Ciccarelli contributed six goals and 16 points in nine games. After the season, Ciccarelli was awarded the Jim Mahon Memorial Trophy, which is given to the highest scoring right winger in the OMJHL.\n\nInjuries cut short Ciccarelli's 1978-79 season, as he appeared in only 30 games, scoring eight goals and 19 points. In seven playoff games, Ciccarelli scored three goals and eight points. After not being selected in the NHL Entry Draft, Ciccarelli signed a contract with the Minnesota North Stars on September 28, 1979.\n\nThe North Stars kept Ciccarelli with the Knights for the 1979-80, and Ciccarelli rebounded, scoring 50 goals and 103 points. In five games in the playoffs, Ciccarelli scored two goals, and finished with eight points.\n\nCiccarelli made his professional hockey debut with the Oklahoma City Stars of the CHL at the end of the 1979-80 season. In six games with Oklahoma City, Ciccarelli had three goals and five points.\n\nHe spent most of the 1980-81 season with Oklahoma City, playing in 48 games, scoring 32 goals and 57 points. Ciccarelli was brought up to the National Hockey League, and in 32 games with the Minnesota North Stars, Ciccarelli had 18 goals and 30 points. In the playoffs, Ciccarelli scored 14 goals and 21 points in 19 games, as the North Stars lost to the New York Islanders in the 1981 Stanley Cup Finals.\n\nCiccarelli spent the entire 1981-82 NHL season with the North Stars, playing in 76 games, scoring a team high 55 goals, while earning 106 points for the season. During the season, Ciccarelli played in the 1982 NHL All-Star Game, hosted by the Washington Capitals, with the Campbell Conference, where he assisted on a goal by Wayne Gretzky in a 4-2 loss to the Wales Conference. In the playoffs, Ciccarelli had three goals and four points in four games.\n\nHe saw a decrease in offensive production during the 1982-83 season, scoring 37 goals and 75 points in 77 games, which was 18 fewer goals and 31 less points than the previous season. Ciccarelli did appear in the 1983 NHL All-Star Game, hosted by the New York Islanders. Ciccarelli had a goal and an assist as the Campbell Conference defeated the Wales Conference 9-3. In the post-season, Ciccarelli appeared in nine games, scoring four goals and 10 points.\n\nCiccarelli had another solid season with Minnesota in 1983-84, scoring 38 goals and 71 points in 79 games, helping the North Stars into the playoffs once again. In 16 playoff games, Ciccarelli had four goals and nine points, as the North Stars lost to the Edmonton Oilers in the Campbell Conference finals.\n\nInjuries cut short Ciccarelli's season in 1984-85, playing in only 51 games, Ciccarelli scored 15 goals and 32 points, his lowest point total since his rookie season in 1980-81, and the lowest goal total of his NHL career. In nine playoff games, Ciccarelli had three goals and six points.\n\nCiccarelli had a healthy 1985-86 season, playing in 75 games, he led the North Stars with 44 goals, while finishing second in points with 89, which were his highest totals since 1981-82. In five playoff games, Ciccarelli was held to an assist.\n\nIn 1986-87, Ciccarelli improved his offensive numbers once again, scoring 52 goals and 103 points in 80 games, which both led the club in scoring. The North Stars struggled during the season, and failed to qualify for the post season.\n\nCiccarelli had his third straight 40+ goal season in 1987-88, as he once again led Minnesota with 41 goals and 86 points in 67 games. It was another tough season for the team though, as they missed the playoffs for the second straight season.\n\nIn 1988-89, Ciccarelli made his first all-star game appearance in six years, as he played with the Campbell Conference in the 1989 NHL All-Star Game held in Edmonton, Alberta. In the game, Ciccarelli assisted on a goal by Steve Yzerman, as the Campbell Conference won the game over the Wales Conference by a score of 9-5. Overall with Minnesota, Ciccarelli played in 65 games, scoring 32 goals and 59 points. On March 7, 1989, the North Stars traded Ciccarelli and Bob Rouse to the Washington Capitals for Mike Gartner and Larry Murphy.\n\nCiccarelli finished the 1988-89 season with the Washington Capitals, playing just 11 games, Ciccarelli scored 12 goals and 15 points, helping the team into the playoffs. He played his first game as a Capital on March 8, 1989, getting no points in a 3-2 loss to the Montreal Canadiens. He scored his first goal with Washington on March 11, 1989, scoring against John Vanbiesbrouck in a 4-2 win over the New York Rangers. On March 18, 1989, Ciccarelli had a four-goal, seven point game in a huge 8-2 victory over the Hartford Whalers. Ciccarelli appeared in his first playoff game with the Capitals on April 5, 1989, getting no points in a 3-2 win over the Philadelphia Flyers. He scored his first playoff goal with Washington on April 6, 1989, scoring against Ron Hextall in a 3-2 loss. Ciccarelli played in six games, scoring three goals and six points as the Capitals were eliminated by the Flyers.\n\nIn Ciccarelli's first full season with the Capitals, he scored 41 goals in 1989-90, which marked his fifth consecutive season of 40+ goals, while finishing with a team high 79 points. Ciccarelli had a four-goal game against the Quebec Nordiques on February 6, 1990 in a 12-2 victory. In the playoffs, Ciccarelli had eight goals and 11 points in eight games before suffering an injury on April 21, 1990 against the New York Rangers that would end his season. Ciccarelli had a hat trick in the playoffs, scoring three goals and an assist against the New Jersey Devils in a 5-4 overtime win on April 5, 1990.\n\nCiccarelli missed 26 games during the 1990-91, in which he scored 21 goals and 39 points, his lowest totals since 1984-85. He did score a hat trick against the Edmonton Oilers on February 8, 1991 in a 6-3 win. Ciccarelli was productive in the playoffs, scoring five goals and nine points in 11 games.\n\nHe rebounded in the 1991-92, as Ciccarelli scored 38 goals, which was a team high, while earning 76 points, helping the Capitals into the playoffs once again. In the playoffs, Ciccarelli had a four-goal game on April 25, 1992, as Washington defeated the Pittsburgh Penguins 7-2. In seven games, he scored five goals and nine points. On June 20, 1992, Ciccarelli was traded from the Capitals to the Detroit Red Wings for Kevin Miller.\n\nCiccarelli made his debut with the Detroit Red Wings on October 6, 1992, getting no points in a 4-1 loss to the Winnipeg Jets. On October 8, 1992, Ciccarelli earned his first goal as a Red Wing, scoring against Kelly Hrudey of the Los Angeles Kings in a 5-3 victory. Ciccarelli finished his first season with Detroit with 41 goals and 97 points, which were both the second highest totals on the team. Ciccarelli's 97 points were his highest since 1986-87, when he recorded 103 with the Minnesota North Stars. In the playoffs, Ciccarelli played his first game with the Red Wings on April 19, 1993, earning an assist in a 6-3 win over the Toronto Maple Leafs. Ciccarelli scored his first playoff goal as a member of the Red Wings on April 27, 1993 against Felix Potvin in a 5-4 loss to the Maple Leafs. On April 29, 1993, Ciccarelli had a hat trick for the Red Wings in a 7-3 win over Toronto. Overall, Ciccarelli appeared in seven playoff games, scoring four goals and six points.\n\nCiccarelli saw his point total decline by 40 in the 1993-94 season, as he scored 28 goals and 57 points in 66 games. He did have a six-point game against the Vancouver Canucks on April 5, 1994, scoring four goals and adding two assists in an 8-3 victory. In the post-season, Ciccarelli had five goals and seven points in seven games.\n\nWith a shortened 1994-95 due to the lockout, Ciccarelli appeared in 42 games, scoring 16 goals and 43 points, which placed him third in team scoring. Ciccarelli had a four assist game against the Winnipeg Jets on March 22, 1995 in a 6-3 win. In the playoffs, Ciccarelli had a hat trick against the Dallas Stars on May 11, 1995 in a 5-1 victory. He finished the playoffs with nine goals and 11 points in 16 games, as the Red Wings lost to the New Jersey Devils in the 1995 Stanley Cup Finals.\n\nIn 1995-96, Ciccarelli scored 22 goals and 43 points in 64 games, helping the Red Wings set an NHL record for wins in a season with 62. In the post-season, Ciccarelli had six goals and eight points in 17 games. On August 27, 1996, the Red Wings traded Ciccarelli to the Tampa Bay Lightning for a fourth round draft pick in the 1998 NHL Entry Draft.\n\nCiccarelli played his first game as a member of the Tampa Bay Lightning on October 5, 1996, getting a goal and two points in a 4-3 win over the Pittsburgh Penguins. On November 8, 1996, Ciccarelli had a hat trick against the Pittsburgh Penguins in a 5-5 tie. Ciccarelli played in the 1997 NHL All-Star Game held in San Jose, California, where he had an assist for the Eastern Conference in an 11-7 win over the Western Conference. He finished the 1996-97 season playing in 77 games, scoring a team high 35 goals, while earning 60 points. Notably, he scored the final goal in the last game that the Hartford Whalers played in on April 13, 1997, scoring the only goal for the Lightning in a 2-1 loss.\n\nHe began the 1997-98 season with the Lightning, he played in 34 games with Tampa Bay, scoring 11 goals and 17 points. On January 15, 1998, the Lightning traded Ciccarelli and Jeff Norton to the Florida Panthers for Mark Fitzpatrick and Jody Hull.\n\nCiccarelli played his first game with the Florida Panthers on January 21, 1998. He scored his first goal with Florida on January 24, 1998 against Kelly Hrudey of the San Jose Sharks in a 1-1 tie. He finished the season with five goals and 16 points in 28 games with the Panthers.\n\nCiccarelli had an injury plagued 1998-99 season, as he missed the majority of the season after suffering a back injury against the Chicago Blackhawks on November 4, 1998. He played in only 14 games, scoring six goals and seven points. On August 31, 1999, Ciccarelli announced his retirement.\n\nCiccarelli played with Canada at various international events during his career. At the 1980 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships held in Helsinki, Finland, Ciccarelli had five goals and six points in five games, as Canada finished in fifth place. At the 1982 IIHF World Hockey Championship held in Finland, Ciccarelli had two goals and three points in nine games, as the Canadians won the Bronze Medal. Ciccarelli also played in the 1987 IIHF World Hockey Championship in Austria, getting four goals and six points in 10 games as Canada finished in fourth place.\n\nCiccarelli's career featured some controversial moments, both on and off the ice. In 1987 he pleaded guilty to indecent exposure and received probation. Then on January 6, 1988, in a game played at Maple Leaf Gardens, Ciccarelli attacked then-Maple Leafs rookie defenceman Luke Richardson with his stick. As a result of this incident, Ciccarelli was convicted of assault, fined $1,000, and sentenced to one day in jail.\n\nCiccarelli was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 2010, eight years after he first became eligible. Press reports speculated that his criminal activity was the reason it took him years to gain entrance.\n\nHis junior team, the London Knights, also retired Ciccarelli's number 8.\n\nCiccarelli owned the nightclub Club 22 in Shelby Charter Township, named for the jersey number he wore with the Capitals, Red Wings, Lightning and Panthers. It was closed in 2011. Shortly after closing, Ciccarelli opened a sports bar in the same location. The name of the establishment is Ciccarelli's Sports Bar Theater, named after the \"theater\" style atmosphere. He has since opened two additional sports bars, one across from the Palace of Auburn Hills; and the other at the site of the former Post Bar in downtown Detroit, near Cobo Center. The Detroit location is only open for Red Wings home games and other special events.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12693385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12693385", "title": "EBird", "text": "EBird\n\neBird is an online database of bird observations providing scientists, researchers and amateur naturalists with real-time data about bird distribution and abundance. Originally restricted to sightings from the Western Hemisphere, it was widened to include New Zealand in 2008, and was widened to cover the whole world in June 2010. eBird has been described as an ambitious example of enlisting amateurs to gather data on biodiversity for use in science.\n\neBird is an example of crowdsourcing, and has been hailed as an example of democratizing science, treating citizens as scientists, allowing the public to access and use their own data and the collective data generated by others.\n\nLaunched in 2002 by the Cornell Lab of Ornithology at Cornell University and the National Audubon Society, eBird gathers basic data on bird abundance and distribution at a variety of spatial and temporal scales. It was mainly inspired by the ÉPOQ database, created by Jacques Larivée in 1975. As of November 2016, over 330,000 unique users have submitted over 100 million checklists, from more than 250 countries and data for over 10,300 species to the program. As of June 2018 there are now now over 500 million bird observations recorded through this global database. In recent years there have been over 100 million bird observations recorded each year.\n\neBird’s goal is to maximize the utility and accessibility of the vast numbers of bird observations made each year by recreational and professional bird watchers. The observations of each participant join those of others in an international network. Due to the variability in the observations the volunteers make, AI filters observations through collected historical data to improve accuracy. The data are then available via internet queries in a variety of formats.\n\nThe eBird Database has been used by scientists to determine the connection between bird migrations and monsoon rains in India validating traditional knowledge. It has also been used to notice bird distribution changes due to climate change and help to define migration routes. A study conducted found that eBird lists were accurate at determining population trends and distribution if there were 10,000 checklists for a given area.\n\neBird documents the presence or absence of species, as well as bird abundance through checklist data. A web interface allows participants to submit their observations or view results via interactive queries of the database. Internet tools maintain personal bird records and enable users to visualize data with interactive maps, graphs, and bar charts. All these features are available in 27 languages, including: Bulgarian, Chinese (Both Traditional and Simplified), Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, German, English (A variety of 11 English dialects), Faroese, Finnish, French (4 French dialects), Creole, Hebrew, Indonesian, Icelandic, Italian, Japanese, Latvian, Malayalam, Mongolian, Norwegian (Bokmål), Polish, Portuguese (Both Portugal and Brazilian Portuguese), Russian, Serbian, Spanish (10 Spanish dialects), Swedish, Thai, Turkish, and Ukrainian.\n\nIt is a free service. Data are stored in a secure facility and archived daily, and is accessible to anyone via the eBird web site and other applications developed by the global biodiversity information community. For example, eBird data are part of the Avian Knowledge Network (AKN), which integrates observational data on bird populations across the western hemisphere and is a data source for the digital ornithological reference Birds of North America. In turn, the AKN feeds eBird data to international biodiversity data systems, such as the Global Biodiversity Information Facility.\n\nIn addition to accepting records submitted from users' personal computers and mobile devices, eBird has placed electronic kiosks in prime birding locations, including one in the education center at the J. N. \"Ding\" Darling National Wildlife Refuge on Sanibel Island in Florida.\n\neBird is a part of Starlink on the new 2019 Subaru Ascent. It allows eBird to be integrated into the touch screen of the car.\n\neBird collects information throughout the globe. \n\nBelow is an incomplete list of research that used the eBird data. A more complete list can be found here: eBird Publication \n\n"}
{"id": "31503705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31503705", "title": "Enggano people", "text": "Enggano people\n\nEnggano people are an isolated group of people in Indonesia that inhabits Enggano Island near the southwest off the coast of Sumatra Island. The population of the people are numbered at approximately 1,000 people as of 1999 and is constantly decreasing.\n\nThe Enggano language that the people spoke are an early Northwest Sumatran languages of the Austronesian languages.\n\nThe Enggano people are one of the oldest tribes of Sumatra. They were first discovered by Portuguese explorers in the early 1500s and the Enggano people referred to themselves as E Lopeh people. Ethnically, they are closely related to the indigenous tribes of Java and Sumatra, from where migration flows directly to Enggano Island. The most anthropologically related people of the Enggano people are the Batak and Nias people and distantly related to the Lampung people (Abung and Pepaduan).\n\nThe social organization of the Enggano people largely resembles the social model of the Nias people and now retains the paternal features of the family. Rural communities are of a neighbor-large-family type. The main social unit is \"marga\" or \"merga\" (surname), an expanded genus whose members are descended from a common male ancestor and retain its name, usually legendary. Outsiders from other \"marga\"s that came later also live in the settlement. Within the \"marga\" there are also \"saompu\", large patriarchal families, where each of them occupies one house. A large family has land and is governed by its elder. Communities are governed by elective village councils.\n\nIt is thought that they strictly observe matrilineal exogamous traditions, where men and children of the village belong to the \"marga\" of their forefathers, while wives are taken from other \"marga\". One cannot marry into the same \"marga\" or to a woman from the \"marga\" from which the groom's sister marries. But this is not exactly the case, as Enggano couples from the same clan are still allowed to married, provided they are of a different sub-clan. The core family unit in Enggano society is based on the monogamy marriage, as polygamy is strictly forbidden. Marriage settlement is patrilocal. A married woman passes into the family of her husband, takes on his surname, preserving it as her family name. The groom's father allocates a piece of land to his son, the child that receives the family name of his father.\n\nToday, the Enggano people; due to prolonged cultural isolation, is on the verge of extinction. They are alien to the neighboring peoples, for example, unlike the Batak people in recent decades, the appearance and growth of ethnic self-awareness are prevalent, especially among the mainstream Indonesians.\n\nAmong the Enggano people, approximately equal of the population professes Islam (mainly Sunni) and Christianity (mainly Catholicism). Apart from that, there are places where animism, totemism and ancestral worship are still being preserved.\n\nEnggano settlements are structurally cumulus. Their houses have stilt frames, stacked and rectangular in shape (whereas the past, they were rounded), with the walls and roof are strengthened by rigid leaves.\n\nEnggano people engaged in manual farming (maize, yam, peanuts, taro, coconut palm), hunting for turtles, breeding of chickens and fishing. Handicrafts works are such as weaving, pottery, woodcarving, making of masks and necklaces, weaving mats and ornaments from beads. Wood carvings by the Enggano people have a very strange resemblance to those in Polynesia.\n\nEnggano men wear \"kain\" loincloths of various lengths, and the length of the \"kain\" in direct proportion testifies to the economic status of its wearer. Enggano women always wear long \"kain\". Men's outer garment is a shirt with long sleeves and a blind collar, while women have a shirt without a collar.\n\nEnggano food is mainly vegetable, and rice is usually bought.\n\n"}
{"id": "55719882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55719882", "title": "Eric Baumer", "text": "Eric Baumer\n\nEric Paul Baumer is an American criminologist and professor of sociology and criminology at Penn State University, where he is also head of the Department of Sociology and Criminology. With Wayne Osgood and Rosemary Gartner, he is the co-editor of the journal \"Criminology\", the official journal of the American Society of Criminology (ASC). He was the vice president of the ASC from 2014 to 2015, and became an ASC fellow in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "11706018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11706018", "title": "Estonian Swedes", "text": "Estonian Swedes\n\nThe Estonian Swedes, Estonia-Swedes, or Coastal Swedes (, \"Estonia Swedes\", colloquially \"aibofolke\", \"Island People\", , i.e. \"Coastal Swedes\" or \"eestirootslased\") are a Swedish-speaking minority traditionally residing in the coastal areas and islands of what is now western and northern Estonia. The beginning of the continuous settlement of Estonian Swedes in these areas (known as \"Aiboland\") dates back to the 13th and 14th centuries, when their Swedish-speaking ancestors arrived in Estonia from what is now Sweden and Finland. Almost all of Estonia's Swedish-speaking minority fled to Sweden during World War II, and only the descendants of a few individuals who stayed behind are permanently resident in Estonia today.\n\nThe Swedish-speaking population in Estonia persisted for about 650 years. The first written mention of the Swedish population in Estonia comes from 1294, in the laws of the town of Haapsalu. Further early mentions of Swedes in Estonia came in 1341 and 1345 (when an Estonian monastery in Padise sold \"the Laoküla Estate\" and Suur-Pakri Island to a group of Swedes). \nDuring the 13th through 15th centuries, large numbers of Swedes arrived in coastal Estonia from Swedish-speaking parts of Finland, which was part of the Kingdom of Sweden (and would remain so until 1809), often settling on Church-owned land. The first documented record of the island of Ruhnu (), and of its Swedish population, is also a 1341 letter sent by the Bishop of Courland which confirmed the islanders' right to reside and manage their property in accordance with Swedish law.\n\nIn 1561, Sweden established the Dominion of Swedish Estonia, which it would hold until 1710 (formally until 1721, when the territory was ceded to Russia under the Treaty of Nystad). The Estonia-Swedes prospered during this period. Swedish, along with German and Estonian, was one of the official languages.\n\nAfter the Teutonic Order lost much of its power in the 16th century and the Dominion of Swedish Estonia was lost to Russia following the Great Northern War (1700–1721), conditions worsened for Swedes in Estonia: the lands they had settled were often confiscated from the Church and given to local nobility, and taxes increased. This situation remained the same during Russian rule, and the Estonian Swedes' suffering continued as, for example, the Agrarian reforms which liberated the land of Estonian serfs in 1816, did not apply to Estonian (mostly non-serf) Swedes.\n\nAt certain times during Russian Estonia period, groups of Estonian Swedes were forced to leave Estonia for other parts of the Russian Empire. Most notably, Empress Catherine II of Russia forced the 1,000 Swedes of Hiiumaa (), to move to Southern Russia (today littoral Ukraine) in 1781, where they established the community of Gammalsvenskby (today within Kherson Oblast).\nThe Estonian Swedes' positions improved during the 1850s and 1860s, due to further agrarian reforms, but discrimination remained during the rest of the period of Tsarist rule in Estonia. After the First World War and the Russian Revolution, the independent Republic of Estonia was created in 1918. The constitution of independent Estonia granted the ethnic minority groups the control over their language of education, the right to form institutions for their national and social rights, the right to use their native language in official capacities where they formed majorities of the population, and the choice of nationality. Swedes, Baltic Germans, Russians, and Jews all had ministers in the new national government. \"Svenska Folkförbundet\", a Swedish political organization, was formed. In 1925, a new law giving more cultural autonomy was passed, although the Russians and Swedes in Estonia did not take advantage of these new freedoms, mainly for economic reasons.\n\nIn 1939, the Soviet Union forced Estonia to sign a treaty concerning military bases. Many of the islands upon which Estonian Swedes lived were confiscated, bases were built on them, and their inhabitants were forced to leave their homes. A year later, Estonia was occupied by, and annexed into, the Soviet Union, and their voice in government was lost. Estonian Swedish men were conscripted into the Red Army and, during the German occupation, into the German armed forces. Most of the remaining Estonian Swedes fled to Sweden prior to the second invasion of Estonia by the Soviet army in 1944. On June 8, 1945, there were 6,554 Estonian Swedes and 21,815 ethnic Estonian refugees in Sweden.\n\nToday, small groups of remaining Estonian Swedes are regrouping and re-establishing their heritage, by studying Swedish language and culture. They are led by the Estonian Swedish Council, which is backed by the Estonian government. In 2000, Swedes were the 21st largest ethnic group in Estonia, numbering only 300. There are however many Estonian Swedes and descendants of Estonian Swedes residing in Sweden.\n\nPopulation figures during the early centuries of Swedish settlement are not available. At the end of the Teutonic period, there were probably around 1,000 Estonian Swedish families, with some 1,500 Swedes in the capital Tallinn (), giving a total population of roughly 5-7 thousand, some 2-3% of the population of what is now Estonia at the time.\n\nThe 1897 Russian Census gives a total Swedish population of 5,768 or 1,39% in the Governorate of Estonia. The majority of the Swedes lived in the Wiek County where they formed a minority of 5,6%.\n\nThe 1922 census gives Estonia a total population of 1,107,059 of which Estonia-Swedes made up only 0.7%, some 7,850 people, who made up majorities in some places, such as Ruhnu (), Vormsi (), Riguldi (). It dropped slightly to 7,641 in 1934. By the time of the Second World War, the population was nearly 10,000, and roughly 9,000 of these people fled to Sweden. Towns with large pre-war Swedish populations include Haapsalu () and Tallinn ().\n\nAfter World War II the numbers stayed fairly stable: there were 435 Estonian Swedes in 1970, 254 in 1979 and 297 in 1989, when they placed 26th on the list of Estonia's minority groups (before the Second World War, they were third in number, after Russians and Germans). The 2000 census shows a number of 300, placing Swedes at 20th on the list of Estonia's minority groups. However, only 211 of them are Estonian citizens. Since all do not claim their real ethnic background, some have estimated the real number of Estonian Swedes in Estonia to be about 1,000.\n\nThere was not a unified Estonian-Swedish dialect, but several. The Estonian-Swedish dialects are subdivisions of the Eastern varieties of Standard Swedish. Ruhnu had its own dialect, the Vormsi-Noarootsi-Riguldi dialect was spoken on those islands, there was also a Pakri-Vihterpalu variety. The dialect of Hiiumaa is still spoken by a few in Gammalsvenskby (which is called \"Gammölsvänskbi\" in the Hiiumaa/Gammmalsvenskby dialect).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30821725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30821725", "title": "Expulsion of Poles by Nazi Germany", "text": "Expulsion of Poles by Nazi Germany\n\nThe Expulsion of Poles by Nazi Germany during World War II was a massive Nazi German operation consisting of the forced resettlement of over 1.7 million Poles from all territories of occupied Poland with the aim of their geopolitical Germanization (see Lebensraum) between 1939–1944.\n\nAdolf Hitler had plans for the extensive colonisation of Polish territories directly opposite the pre-war borders of the Third Reich, making them part of his newly created \"Reichsgau Wartheland\". Eventually his plans grew bigger to include the General Government in the process of ethnic cleansing and genocide. The region was to become a \"purely German area\" within 15–20 years, as explained by Hitler in March 1941. By that time the General Government was to be cleared of 15 million Polish nationals, and resettled by 4–5 million ethnic Germans.\n\nDuring the occupation of Poland following the German invasion of the country, Nazi expansionist policies were enacted upon its Polish population on an unprecedented scale. In accordance with Nazi ideology the Poles were considered Untermenschen, deemed for slavery and their further elimination, in order to make room for the Germans re-settled from across Europe. Furthermore, Hitler intended to extensively colonize all territories lying to the east of the Third Reich. These were worked out by the RSHA department of the SS in Generalplan Ost (GPO, \"[the] General Plan for the East\"), which foresaw the deportation of 45 million \"non-Germanizable\" people from Central & Eastern Europe to West Siberia; of whom 31 million were \"racially undesirable\": including 100% of Jews, Poles (85%), Belorussians (75%) and Ukrainians (65%). Poland itself would have been cleared of all Polish people eventually, as 20 million or so were going to be expelled further east. The remaining 3 to 4 million Polish peasants believed to be the Polonized \"descendants\" of German colonists and migrants (Walddeutsche, Prussian settlers, etc.) – and therefore considered \"racially valuable\" – would be Germanized and dispersed among the ethnic German population living on formerly Polish soil. The Nazi leadership hoped that through expulsions to Siberia, famine, mass executions and slave labour, the Polish nation would eventually be completely destroyed. Experiments in mass sterilization in concentration camps may also have been intended for use on the populations.\n\nThe World War II expulsions took place within two specific political entities established by the Nazis, divided from each other by a closed border: one area outright annexed to the Reich in 1939–1941, and another called the General Government, a precursor to the further expansion of the German administrative settlement area. Eventually, as Adolf Hitler explained in March 1941, the General Government would be cleared of all Poles and the region turned into a \"purely German area\" within 15–20 years, and in place of 15 million Poles, 4–5 million Germans would live there. The area was to become \"as German as the Rhineland\".\n\nBy 1945 one million German Volksdeutsche from several Eastern European countries and regions such as the Soviet Union, Bessarabia, Romania and the Baltic States had been successfully resettled into Poland during the action called \"Heim ins Reich\". The deportation orders specifically required that enough Poles be removed to provide for every settler—that, for instance, if twenty German \"master bakers\" were sent, twenty Polish bakeries had to have their owners removed. The expulsions of Poles were conducted by two German organisations: the Hauptamt Volksdeutsche Mittelstelle and the Resettlement Department of the \"Reich Commissioner for the Consolidation of Germandom\" (RKFDV, \"Reichskomissar für die Festigung deutschen Volkstums\"), a title held by Heinrich Himmler. The new Germans were put in villages and towns already cleared of their native Polish inhabitants under the banner of \"Lebensraum\".\n\nGermanization began with the classification of which people were \"racially suitable\", as defined by the Nazi Volksliste. About 1.7 million Poles were deemed Germanizable, including between one and two hundred thousand Polish children who were taken away from their parents. For the remainder expulsion was carried out, often in cattle cars in freezing weather, causing the deaths of many, especially children. They were carried out on short notice, often at night, and the people were allowed only a few belongings. Ethnic Germans being resettled there were often given Polish homes with half-eaten meals on tables, and unmade beds, where small children had been sleeping at the time of their evictions. Members of the Hitler Youth and the League of German Girls were assigned the task of overseeing the evictions to ensure that the Poles left behind most of their belongings for the use of the settlers. This could also mean the separation of entire families, with able-bodied adults being sent to work in Germany while the rest were sent to the General Government.\n\nTogether with so-called \"wild expulsions\", in four years of Nazi occupation 923,000 Poles were ethnically cleansed from the territories annexed by Germany into the Reich. According to research conducted by Czesław Łuczak, the Germans expelled the following numbers of Poles from areas annexed into the Reich as well as all others in the period of 1939–1944:\n\nBetween 1939 and 1940, Nazi expulsions from German-occupied Greater Poland (Wielkopolska) affected 680,000 Poles. From the city of Poznań (Posen) in Reichsgau Wartheland alone, the Germans expelled 70,000 Poles to the General Government. The deportations conducted under the leadership of \"SS-Obergruppenführer\" Wilhelm Koppe, were supervised by \"SS-Standartenführer\" Ernst Damzog, who was also in charge of the daily operation of the Chełmno extermination camp. By 1945, half a million German Volksdeutsche from Eastern Europe, including the Soviet Union, Volhynia, Bessarabia, Romania as well as the Baltic Germans, had been resettled into this area during the action called \"Heim ins Reich\".\n\nFrom 1939 to 1940 in German-occupied Pomerelia (named Danzig-West Prussia by the Germans), the expulsions affected 121,765 Poles. A total of 130,000 Volksdeutsche were resettled there including 57,000 Germans from Eastern Europe, including Soviet Union, Bessarabia, Romania and the Baltic states.\n\nIn 1940 and 1941 the Germans evicted 17,000 Polish and Jewish residents from the western districts of the city of Oświęcim; from all places located directly adjacent to the Auschwitz Concentration Camp and also from the villages of Broszkowice, Babice, Brzezinka, Rajsko, Pławy, Harmęże, Bór, and Budy. The expulsion of Polish civilians was a step towards establishing the \"Camp Interest Zone\" meant to isolate the camp from the outside world, and to expand economic activity designed to meet the needs of the SS. The ethnic German and Volksdeutsche settlers were being shipped in instead.\n\nThe years 1940 to 1944 marked the expulsion of 50,000 Poles from the Żywiec area including 18,000–20,000 Poles during the Action Saybusch operation conducted by the Wehrmacht and Ordnungspolizei in late 1940. The first of these actions took place on 22 September 1940. \"Aktion Saybusch\" lasted from September to December 1940, with some 3,200 Volksdeutsche brought in \"Heim ins Reich\" (Home into the Empire) from Romanian Bukovina. Until the end of the Second World War a third of the Polish population was expelled from this region out of a total of 50,000 inhabitants. Poles were forcibly removed from the region and replaced with about 4,000 Volksdeutsche settlers from Eastern Galicia and Volhynia who were given new latifundia.\n\nThe Łódź area was attached by the Germans to occupied Greater Poland (Wielkopolska), renamed Reichsgau Wartheland. The first expulsions from the city of Łódź (renamed Litzmannstadt) took place in 1939. The Nazis, helped by the local Volksdeutsche, expelled Polish families from the osiedle \"Montwiłła\" Mireckiego first. Until 1940, all 5,000 residents of this subdivision were expelled. Between 1939 and 1945, from the entire Łódź area (\"Regierungsbezirk Litzmannstadt\") including Łódź itself, Sieradz, Pabianice and other settlements, 444,000 persons of Polish ethnicity were expelled – almost 25% of its population.\n\nThe territory of the German district called the General Government was the second main area of expulsions after the Reichsgau Wartheland. The entity itself was seen only as a temporary measure by the Germans, and served as a large concentration area for Poles to perform hard labour to further Germany's industry and war effort. Eventually it was to be cleared of Poles as well.\n\n116,000 Poles were expelled from the region of Zamość, as part of the Nazi plan to establish German colonies further east in the conquered territories. Zamość itself was to be renamed \"Himmlerstadt\" (\"Himmler City\"), later changed to \"Pflugstadt\" (Plough City), that was to symbolise the German \"Plough\" that was to \"plough\" the East. Additionally, almost 30,000 children were kidnapped by the German authorities from their parents in that area for their further Germanization. The action led to a massive operation by the Polish underground resistance movement led primarily by the Armia Krajowa and Bataliony Chłopskie, known as the Zamość Uprising.\n\nAmong the expulsions from the metropolitan centres of Poland, the largest took place in its capital. In October 1940, 115,000 Poles were expelled from their homes in central Warsaw to make room for the Jewish Ghetto constructed by the authorities. After the failure of the Warsaw Uprising, half a million people were expelled from the city as punishment, with 35% of the buildings systematically leveled block by block.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25547340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25547340", "title": "Fire on the Lüneburg Heath", "text": "Fire on the Lüneburg Heath\n\nThe fire on the Lüneburg Heath was a major forest fire in 1975 on the southern part of the Lüneburg Heath in north Germany, with various points of origin near Gifhorn, Eschede and Meinersen. To this day, it is the largest known forest fire in the Federal Republic of Germany.\n\nThe fire was aided by a long period of drought with hot summer weather and dried-out coniferous forests. Additionally, there was a lot of storm-damaged wood left in the wake of Hurricane Quimburga on 13 November 1972 that had not been cleared. The sources of the fire could only be reached with difficulty by the fire services over the unmetalled forest and heath tracks. Assisted by the monoculture of the area with its uniform stands of pines, the fire was able to spread rapidly and developed into a giant forest fire in parts of the districts of Gifhorn and Celle.\n\nThe actual cause of the fire was only clarified in a few cases. At one place it was reckoned that the fire was started by sparks from the railway, in other places by carelessness or arson.\n\nOn 8 August 1975 a heath fire near the village of Stüde on the Südheide got out of control. The fire quickly spread and jumped across the Elbe Lateral Canal. In addition to the forest and bog fires between Stüde and Neudorf-Platendorf further fires broke out in the next few days in the districts of Gifhorn and Celle in the area of the Südheide Nature Park, which were only extinguished with difficulty. Plumes of smoke rose up to four kilometres high above the heath.\n\n\nAbout 15,000 fire fighters from across Germany fought the fire. A total of 3,800 fire engines were deployed. Other authorities such as the police, \"Bundesgrenzschutz\", customs, \"Technisches Hilfswerk\" and Forestry Commission as well as aid organisations like the German Red Cross, St. John's Ambulance, \"Malteser Hilfsdienst\" and \"Arbeiter-Samariter-Bund\" were engaged in fighting the forest fires in Lower Saxony.\n\nBut only when around 11,000 Bundeswehr soldiers with cross-country capable vehicles and heavy clearance equipment (including armoured recovery tanks with dozer blades) were deployed could the fire be contained by the creation of firebreaks.\nIn addition there were many British troops deployed in particular AVRE's (Assault Vehicles Royal Engineers) from 26 Armoured Engineer Squadron from Hohne garrison.\n\nFor the first time, three aerial firefighter aircraft of the Canadair CL-215 type from France were used in support. These were exclusively used to protect small hamlets and farmsteads in the fire zone. They picked up water from the Steinhuder Meer. Airport fire appliances from the Rhineland were stationed at a Bundeswehr barracks in Wesendorf north of Gifhorn.\n\nFirefighting was made more difficult by the weather conditions, the poor going on the tracks and constantly changing winds. The biggest problem however was an acute lack of water to fight the fire. Most of the natural water sources such as ponds, gravel pits or rivers were a long way from the sites of the fire. Water tenders had to travel long distances in order to refill their tanks.\n\nDuring the emergency a railway firefighting train was deployed. The Hanover Railway Fire Service had stood by on 12 August 1975 for deployment to the disaster area. Four tank wagons and a flat wagon were made available for the firefighting train. Each tanker held 45,000 litres of water. The Hanover Railway Fire Service put out fires by the railway track between Eschede and Garßen.\n\nThe flat wagon carried the Hanover Fire Service's TLF 16 fire appliance; two tank wagons provided it with water. So that water would be continuously available, the two other tank wagons were also filled with water. Once the diesel locomotive had delivered two full tank wagons, it would then return to Uelzen with the empty ones in order to refill them at the water crane there. The deployment of the fire train ended on 16 August 1975. For future incidents the Deutsche Bundesbahn has stationed four water wagons along the railway line from Hanover to Celle.\n\nThe fire destroyed of forest and caused damage assessed at more than 18 million euros. Immediately after the fire the chief executive (\"Oberkreisdirektor\") responsible for the district of Celle, who was not felt to have handled the problem well, was replaced. At the site where five firemen died a memorial was erected; it lies in a wooded are east of Meinersen by the B 188 federal road and is signed. It consists of a walled enclosure with a large memorial stone and five smaller ones, symbolising each of the victims.\n\nA commemorative medal and certificate was awarded to all those deployed during the fire disaster in August 1975.\n\nThe fire services have been better equipped since the fire:\n\nA consequence of the fire disaster has been that fire protection on the Lüneburg Heide, as well as Germany-wide, has been considerably improved. For example, at particularly endangered places when the risk of forest fire is heightened an aerial firefighting service is deployed to provide aerial observation of the forests, which enables early warning. In order to be better equipped for future forest fires, metalled tracks were built for fire engines.\n\nAt lakes, fish ponds or gravel pits in the area, water take-off points were installed. In particularly endangered areas, special ponds were dug in order to provide rapid and efficient water collection by fire engines. Where there are no rivers for water collection, old heating oil tanks were used as water supply tanks each with between 20,000 and 100,000 litres of water in the ground.\n\nIn reforesting the areas destroyed by storm and forest fire, it was initially thought that pine monocultures should be abandoned and more deciduous trees (oaks and beech) should be planted. Soil investigations revealed, however, that deciduous trees would only be able to establish in a few places due to the poor sandy soil. The forest fire had also destroyed much of the available humus soil. On the edge of the forests, larch was planted in places in order to act as fire protection. Otherwise the scorched areas were again uniformly reforested with pines.\n\n"}
{"id": "233404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233404", "title": "Foreign policy", "text": "Foreign policy\n\nA country's foreign policy, also called foreign relations or foreign affairs policy, consists of self-interest strategies chosen by the state to safeguard its national interests and to achieve goals within its international relations milieu. The approaches are strategically employed to interact with other countries. The study of such strategies is called foreign policy analysis. In recent times, due to the deepening level of globalization and transnational activities, the states will also have to interact with non-state actors. The aforementioned interaction is evaluated and monitored in attempts to maximize benefits of multilateral international cooperation. Since the national interests are paramount, foreign policies are designed by the government through high-level decision making processes. National interests accomplishment can occur as a result of peaceful cooperation with other nations, or through exploitation. Usually, creating foreign policy is the job of the head of government and the foreign minister (or equivalent). In some countries the legislature also has considerable effects. Foreign policies of countries have varying rates of change and scopes of intent, which can be affected by factors that change the perceived national interests or even affect the stability of the country itself. The foreign policy of a country can have profound and lasting impact on many other countries and on the course of international relations as a whole, such as the Monroe Doctrine conflicting with the mercantilism policies of 19th-century European countries and the goals of independence of newly formed Central American and South American countries.\n\nThe ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle described humans as social animals. Therefore, friendships and relations have existed between humans since the beginning of human interaction. As the organization developed in human affairs, relations between people also organized. Foreign policy thus goes back to primitive times. The inception in human affairs of foreign relations and the need for foreign policy to deal with them is as old as the organization of human life in groups. Before writing, most of these relations were carried out by word of mouth and left little direct archaeological evidence.\n\nThe literature from ancient times, the Bible, the Homeric poems, the histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, and many others, show an accumulation of experience in dealing with foreigners. Ancient Chinese and Indian writings give much evidence of thought concerned with the management of relations between peoples in the form of diplomatic correspondence between rulers and officials of different states and within systems of multi-tiered political relations such as the Han dynasty and its subordinate kings, the more powerful of which conducted their own limited foreign relations as long as those did not interfere with their primary obligations to the central government, treatises by Chanakya and other scholars, and the preserved text of ancient treaties, as well as frequent references by known ancient writers to other, even older sources which have since been lost or remain in fragmentary form only.\n\nGlobal wars were fought two times in the twentieth century. Consequently, international relations became a public concern as well as an important field of study and research.\nAfter the Second World War and during the 1960s, many researchers in the U.S. particularly, and from other countries in common, brought forth a wealth of research work and theory. This work was done for international relations and not for foreign policy as such. Gradually, various theories began to grow around international relations, international systems, and international politics, but the need for a theory of foreign policy (that is, the starting point in each sovereign state) continued to receive negligible attention. The reason was that the states used to keep their foreign policies under official secrecy, and unlike today, it was not considered appropriate for the public to know about these policies. This iron-bound secrecy is an essential part for the framework of foreign policy formulation.\n\nWorld War II and its devastation posed a great threat and challenge for humanity which revealed to everyone the importance of international relations. Though foreign policy formulation continued to remain a closely guarded process at the national level, wider access to governmental records and greater public interest provided more data from which academic work placed international relations in a structured framework of political science. Graduate and post-graduate courses developed. Research was encouraged, and gradually, international relations became an academic discipline in universities throughout the world.\n\nThe subject of whether or not constructive attempts at involvement by citizens benefits the disciplines of the \"art,\" or whether or not such disciplines as intercultural and interpersonal communications and others may play a significant part in the future of international relations could be a subject for further study by interested individuals/groups and is encouraged at the educational level.\n\nWriters researching foreign policy in the 20th century were unaware of whether or not agencies who most closely dealt with foreign policy kept logs of statistical experience not unlike the actuarial statistics kept by organizations of the insurance industry assessing the risk and danger involved (e.g., when situation \"C\" happened before, and subject included instances of \"E\" and \"L\", how was it handled and what was the result? When were peaceful and amicable results leading to better relations ever obtained through considered action and what was that action?).\n\nThe writers who worked with the foreign policy can be divided into two groups:\n(The second group restricts to foreign policy making.)\n\nThe works of the second group come closer to the theory of foreign policy, but there is no attempt to formulate a basic theory of foreign policy. Hans Morgenthau’s works on principal elements of foreign policy seem to have covered the most ground.\n\nShapiro, in his comparative study of the foreign policy of different countries, felt that the lack of a basic theory of foreign policy was particularly disabling and pointed out the harmful effect of the absence of a general theory of foreign policy on foreign policy literature.\n\nThe most fundamental question that arises here is: why do we lack theories of foreign policy? Or why do we need a general theory of foreign policy?\nThe absence of a general theory in this field leads to some serious consequences. Without theory:\n\n\nA theoretical framework of foreign policy is needed to analyze the day-to-day interactions in international relations and to compare individual foreign policies. The focus is primarily on the policies of state actors with defined territories and jurisdictional boundaries, and less so on non-state actors, except in the context of how they impact national government decisions and policies. The formal field of study of international relations is itself fairly recent and a specific subset of international relations such as foreign policy analysis does not receive wide attention as a field of scientific study, as opposed to the widespread use of terms like \"foreign policy\" and \"foreign policy expert\" in news media and general discussions about government when such experts may have more extensive backgrounds in fields other than foreign policy analysis. The organization Foreign Policy Interrupted recognized the gender disparity in foreign policy expert representation and is amplifying the number of female voices in foreign policy media coverage. Government officials involved in making foreign policy often perceive risk in giving away information about their policy-making processes and do not discuss the subject since control of information is itself often a part of foreign policy.\n\nThe vast record of empirical data and research is given academic attention to fit it into the framework of a general theory of foreign policy.\n\nThe second group of writers has made contributions in its development in many ways:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43596207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43596207", "title": "Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues Memorial Debate", "text": "Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues Memorial Debate\n\nThe National level Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues Memorial Debate is a Debate Competition in Mumbai, hosted annually by Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering, Bandra. Inaugurated in the year 1999 as a debate competition for colleges within Mumbai, it became a National level Competition in 2012. It is a 2-day event usually held in the month of September.\nThe debate aims to provide a forum for today’s youth to articulate views and engage in a dialogue on various affairs that affect the life of the common man, directly or otherwise.\n\nThe debates on the first day are carried out in various rooms in the Fr. CRCE campus at Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra. For the past 4 years, the final day is held at the state of the art College Hall ‘Samvaad’.\n\nThe competition follows a knock-out, non-parliamentary format of debate. The language used in all the debates is English. There are 32 participating colleges from all over Maharashtra,Gujarat, Karnataka and Odisha. Each participating college sends a contingent of 2 students. The team is given the topics and theme weeks in advance of the competition.\n\nThe debates are judged by invited judges who represent various fields of education, social services, entertainment and industry.It is organized entirely by the Students’ Council of Fr. CRCE and the specially formed Debate Committee.\n\nIn the recent years, the knock-outs and the quarter finals are carried out on the first day of the two-day event. The second day witnesses the 4 teams going through the semi-finals and finals to win the Fr. C. R. Memorial Rolling Trophy and handsome cash prizes. The Best Speaker is also awarded a special prize.\n\nAs of the year 2016, the format of the competition was changed to a league system. The 32 participating teams are divided into two pools \"viz.\" A and B. Each team then competes for three rounds. The winner of each round is awarded a point. The top eight teams qualify for the quarter-finals. The format for the quarter-final, semi-final and final is knock-out style.\n\nEvery year the college announces a theme for the debate. Ranging from national to abstract, the theme is a common link between the myriad topics that the students debate upon in the course of the event. The theme for the 2012 edition of the debate was \"India: An Order Rising Amongst Chaos\". 2013, the run-up to the highly anticipated General Elections 2014 saw \"India: Shifting towards Equinox\" as its theme.The theme for the year 2014 was \"Entranced by Light, Entrapped by Shadows\". Separating the thin line between the realm of fantasy and reality, the theme for the year 2015 was \"Appeasing mist shrouding the hills of reality\".\n\nThe list of the winners of the coveted Rolling Trophy since its inception.\n\nThe quality of thoughts and ideas expressed by students over the past debates has been lauded by all the Chief Guests and Guests of Honour who have witnessed the event, some of them being Former MP Priya Dutt, Mrs. Shraddha Jadhav, Mr. Kumar Ketkar, Mr. Madhur Bhandarkar, Mr. Ashoke Pandit, Mr. Mahesh Bhatt, Mr. Prakash Jha, Mr. Sanjay Manjrekar, Mrs Dolly Thakore.\n\n\"“No wonder films don’t always do well. After seeing a Debate like this where so many intellectual young minds fight it out, who would want to go to a movie theatre”\"\n- Mahesh Bhatt, Film Director\n\n\"“ Way beyond my expectations. Never expected a technical college to hold such a non-technical Debate!”\"\n- Dolly Thakore, Theatre Actress\n\n\"“The debate was well-organised and the participants were well aware.You people reminded me of the smart youth our country is famous for”\"\n- Madhur Bhandarkar, Film Director\n\nThe Chief Guest for the 2012 edition was Mr. Arnab Goswami, the acclaimed Editor-in-chief of Times Now. Famous Journalist, Mrs. Bachi Karkaria was the Chief Guest on the 15th Fr. C. R. Memorial Debate.In the year 2014, Mahrukh Inayet was the Chief Guest.\n"}
{"id": "46457885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46457885", "title": "Gender and emotional expression", "text": "Gender and emotional expression\n\nThe topic of gender and emotion is often reduced to attempts to identify the differences between women, men, and the various ways in which they express their emotions. Stereotypes are powerful, and men and women from various cultures have been shown to accept the Western stereotype that women are more emotional than men. Specifically, women are believed to experience and express discrete emotions such as happiness, fear, disgust, and sadness more than men. \n\nMany researchers have concluded that the observed emotional differences between men and women primarily stem from socialized gender roles, rather than biology. Thus, the range of emotional expression that certain populations experience is based, in large part, on their culture's expectations for femininity and masculinity.\n\nMany psychologists reject the notion that men actually experience emotions less frequently than do women. Instead, researchers have suggested that men exhibit restrictive emotionality. Restrictive emotionality refers to a tendency to inhibit the expression of certain emotions and an unwillingness to self-disclose intimate feelings. Men's restrictive emotionality has been shown to influence health, emotional appraisal and overall identity. Furthermore, tendencies toward restrictive emotionality are correlated with an increased risk of certain anxiety disorders.\nA substantial amount of research has suggested that women do, on average, express emotions more frequently than men. In the Handbook of Emotions, Leslie R. Brody and Judith A. Hall report that This difference in emotional expression starts at a young age, as early as 4 and 6 years old, as girls begin to express more sadness and anxiety than their male counterparts. Brody and Hall (2008) report that women generally smile, laugh, nod and use hand gestures more than men do. The only known exception to this rule is that men more frequently express anger. However, all of these effects are not commonly observed until after preschool, suggesting that these differences might be the result of certain socialization processes. \nWomen are also more accurate expressers of emotion, when \"posing deliberately and when observed unobstrusively.\" This increased expressiveness in emotional expression is consistent across cultures – women report more intense emotional experiences and more overt emotional expressions across 37 cultures.\nIt has been found that men and women more accurately display gender-stereotypic expressions – men more accurately express anger, contempt and happiness, while women were more accurately express fear and happiness. Other studies have shown that women show higher levels of expression accuracy and judgement of nonverbal emotional cues than men overall. However, these patterns are not consistent across cultures, again suggesting that socialization influences the observed gender differences in emotional expression. For example, in Japan, research has suggested that women convey anger and contempt better than men do.\n\nResearch has shown that culture and context-specific gender roles have a stronger influence on emotional expression than do biological factors. \"Empirical evidence suggests that girls are socialized to be emotional, nonaggressive, nurturing, and obedient, whereas boys are socialized to be unemotional, aggressive, achievement oriented, and self-reliant. Peers continue this process as children develop and mature in effect constraining how, where, why, and with whom certain emotions are expressed\". One study suggests that people tend to exhibit more intense negative facial expressions in solitary conditions, and smile more when others are present. In this experiment, men and women did not differ in their anger expression in non-social conditions. However, women were more likely to express their anger in the solitary condition as opposed to the social condition. Men, on the other hand, seemed to be less concerned with appearing positive to others; they showed no difference in their expression of anger based on whether or not others were present. In another recent study, Coats and Feldman found that women who were more accurate expressors of happiness were judged as more popular, while men who were more accurate expressors of anger were judged as more popular. This suggests that there are negative consequences for people who are less accurate expressors of gender-stereotypical emotions.\n\nThese consequences also extend to judging others' emotions. Studies have shown that there are negative social consequences for children who are deficient at judging gender-stereotypic nonverbal cues – angry nonverbal cues for boys and happy, sad, and fearful nonverbal cues for girls. Communication of emotion involves both detection and expression of emotions or moods. The ability to detect non-verbal cues leads to successful communication of emotions. In computer-mediated communication (CMC), the absence of body language and visibility restricts one's ability to correctly recognize other's emotions. For this reason, emoticons are widely used in online communication to replace non-verbal behaviors that emphasize or clarify one's feelings. Surprisingly, there is no static gender difference in the use of emoticons. In some studies, both men and women display an increase in emoticon use in the context of a mixed-gender group chat. Others show that men use more emoticons when interacting with women, while women show no change when interacting with men.\n\nThe social-developmental hypothesis is one of the major arguments for the impact of nurture on emotional expression. The social-developmental theory explains gender differences in emotion expression through emphasizing \"children's active role in their development of gendered behavior\" through learning by watching adults or through interactions with their parents and peers (Chaplin & Aldao, 2012). This hypothesis points to the fact that infants are not born with the same differences in emotional expression and gender differences generally grow more pronounced as children age. In a 2012 meta-analysis conducted by Tara Chaplin and Amelia Aldao, researchers reviewed gender differences in emotion expression from the infancy period through adolescence in order to determine the impact of development and age on gender differences. Their findings support the notion that social factors in a child's development play a large role in the gender differences that later emerge, as \"gender differences were not found in infancy…but they emerged by the toddler/preschool period and in childhood\". One possible explanation for this developmental difference comes from the child's parents. In many Western cultures, for example, parents discuss and express a broader range of emotions with their daughters than their sons. As children grow older, these patterns continue with their peers.\n\nThe second major argument in support of social influences on emotion expression involves the idea that a society's gender roles reinforce gender differences. The social constructionist theory states that children grow up in the context of gender roles that naturally place them in role-specific situations, influencing their emotion expression in that context. Gender stereotypes in heteronormative societies enforce expectations for women to suppress anger and contempt, but express other emotions using words and facial expressions. Simultaneously, these same cultural norms discourage men from verbally expressing emotions, with the exception of anger or contempt (Wester, Pressly, & Heesacker, 2002). As an adaptive feature, regulation of expression of emotion involves the consideration the social demands of any given situation. Studies have shown that \"fewer gender differences in emotion expression may be found when children are with someone they trust and know well than when children are with an unfamiliar person\" (Chaplin & Aldao, 2012). Generally, people are trained to behave in a \"socially acceptable\" way around strangers or acquaintances, suggesting that the social context of an environment can shape the levels of emotion expression.\n\nBiological factors also play a role in influencing emotion expression. One central biological argument is related to cognitive differences between genders. In a 2008 study using functional magnetic reasoning imaging (fMRI) to monitor brain activity in participants, researchers found that men and women differ in neural responses when experiencing negative emotions. \"Compared with women, men showed lesser increases in prefrontal regions that are associated with reappraisal, greater decreases in the amygdala, which is associated with emotional responding, and lesser engagement of ventral striatal regions, which are associated with reward processing\" (McRae, Ochsner, Mauss, Gabrieli, & Gross, 2008). The way that male and female brains respond to emotions likely impacts the expression of those emotions.\n\nThe biological roots of gender differences interact with the social environment in various ways. Biological theorists propose that females and males have innate differences that exist at birth, but unfold with age and maturation in response to interactions with their specific environments (Chaplin & Aldao, 2012). An important argument for this viewpoint is that \"gender differences in emotion expression are the result of a combination of biologically based temperamental predispositions and the socialization of boys and girls to adopt gender-related display rules for emotion expression\". It has been suggested that even infant males display higher levels of activity and arousal than do infant girls as well as a lower ability for language and behavior inhibitory controls, which are biologically-based characteristics. This \"nature\" argument interacts with \"nurture\" in that \"parents and other socialization agents may respond to boys in ways that dampen emotional expressiveness…as a way to down-regulate their high emotional arousal and activity levels\". On the other hand, girls are encouraged to utilize their higher vocabulary and communication skills to verbally express their emotions to parents and other adults, which would also highlight expression differences between genders.\n\nReferences to a figurative \"man-box\", an idea often attributed to TED speaker Tony Porter, attempts to describe the societal restrictions on a man's freedom of emotional expression. As Porter describes, this restriction is a primary reason for high rates of violence against women. Through his organization, \"A Call to Men\", Porter and his team organize initiatives and create awareness about what it means to possess \"healthy manhood\". The 'man-box' is an analogous attempt to shed light on some of the cultural and social barriers we impose on men such as emotional reservedness, lack of physical intimacy with other men, and expectations of aggressive and/or dominant behavior in social environments.\n\nEmotions are complex and involve different components, such as physiological arousal, expressive behaviors, and conscious experience. While the expressive component of emotion has been widely studied, it remains unclear whether or not men and women differ in other aspects of emotion. Most researchers agree that women are more emotionally expressive, but not that they experience more emotions than men do. Some studies have shown that women are more likely to produce inauthentic smiles than men do, while others have shown the opposite. This debate is significant because emotion can be generated by adopting an action that is associated with a particular emotion, such as smiling and speaking softly.\n\nA possible explanation is that both men and women's emotional expressiveness is susceptible to social factors. Men and women may be reinforced by social and cultural standards to express emotions differently, but it is not necessarily true in terms of experiencing emotions. For instance, studies suggest that women often occupy roles that conform to feminine display rules, which require them to amplify their emotional response to impress others.\n\n"}
{"id": "35781029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35781029", "title": "Gendza language", "text": "Gendza language\n\nGendza (\"Ligendza, Digenja\") is a Bantu language of the Democratic Republic of Congo.\n"}
{"id": "3276555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3276555", "title": "History of communication", "text": "History of communication\n\nSince prehistoric times, significant changes in communication technologies (media and appropriate inscription tools) have evolved in tandem with shifts in political and economic systems, and by extension, systems of power. Communication can range from very subtle processes of exchange, to full conversations and mass communication. Human communication was revolutionized with the origin of speech approximately 500,000 BCE. Symbols were developed about 30,000 years ago.\nThe imperfection of speech, which nonetheless allowed easier dissemination of ideas and stimulated inventions, eventually resulted in the creation of new forms of communications, improving both the range at which people could communicate and the longevity of the information. All of those inventions were based on the key concept of the symbol.\n\nThe oldest known symbols created for the purpose of communication were cave paintings, a form of rock art, dating to the Upper Paleolithic age. The oldest known cave painting is located within Chauvet Cave, dated to around 30,000 BC. These paintings contained increasing amounts of information: people may have created the first calendar as far back as 15,000 years ago. The connection between drawing and writing is further shown by linguistics: in Ancient Egypt and Ancient Greece the concepts and words of drawing and writing were one and the same (Egyptian: 's-sh', Greek: 'graphein').\n\nThe next advancement in the history of communications came with the production of petroglyphs, carvings into a rock surface. It took about 20,000 years for homo sapiens to move from the first cave paintings to the first petroglyphs, which are dated to approximately the Neolithic and late Upper Paleolithic boundary, about 10,000 to 12,000 years ago.\n\nIt is possible that humans of that time used some other forms of communication, often for mnemonic purposes - specially arranged stones, symbols carved in wood or earth, quipu-like ropes, tattoos, but little other than the most durable carved stones has survived to modern times and we can only speculate about their existence based on our observation of still existing 'hunter-gatherer' cultures such as those of Africa or Oceania.\n\nA pictogram (pictograph) is a symbol representing a concept, object, activity, place or event by illustration. Pictography is a form of proto-writing whereby ideas are transmitted through drawing. Pictographs were the next step in the evolution of communication: the most important difference between petroglyphs and pictograms is that petroglyphs are simply showing an event, but\npictograms are telling a story about the event, thus they can for example be ordered chronologically.\n\nPictograms were used by various ancient cultures all over the world since around 9000 BC, when tokens marked with simple pictures began to be used to label basic farm produce, and become increasingly popular around 6000–5000 BC.\n\nThey were the basis of cuneiform and hieroglyphs, and began to develop into logographic writing systems around 5000 BC.\n\nPictograms, in turn, evolved into ideograms, graphical symbols that represent an idea. Their ancestors, the pictograms, could represent only something resembling their form: therefore a pictogram of a circle could represent a sun, but not concepts like 'heat', 'light', 'day' or 'Great God of the Sun'. Ideograms, on the other hand, could convey more abstract concepts, so that for example an ideogram of two sticks can mean not only 'legs' but also a verb 'to walk'.\n\nBecause some ideas are universal, many different cultures developed similar ideograms. For example, an eye with a tear means 'sadness' in Native American ideograms in California, as it does for the Aztecs, the early Chinese and the Egyptians. \n\nIdeograms were precursors of logographic writing systems such as Egyptian hieroglyphs and Chinese characters. \n\nExamples of ideographical proto-writing systems, thought not to contain language-specific information, include the Vinca script (see also Tărtăria tablets) and the early Indus script. In both cases there are claims of decipherment of linguistic content, without wide acceptance. \n\nThe oldest-known forms of writing were primarily logographic in nature, based on pictographic and ideographic elements. Most writing systems can be broadly divided into three categories: \"logographic\", \"syllabic\" and \"alphabetic\" (or \"segmental\"); however, all three may be found in any given writing system in varying proportions, often making it difficult to categorise a system uniquely.\n\nThe invention of the first writing systems is roughly contemporary with the beginning of the Bronze Age in the late Neolithic of the late 4000 BC. The first writing system is generally believed to have been invented in pre-historic Sumer and developed by the late 3000's BC into cuneiform. Egyptian hieroglyphs, and the undeciphered Proto-Elamite writing system and Indus Valley script also date to this era, though a few scholars have questioned the Indus Valley script's status as a writing system.\n\nThe original Sumerian writing system was derived from a system of clay tokens used to represent commodities. By the end of the 4th millennium BC, this had evolved into a method of keeping accounts, using a round-shaped stylus impressed into soft clay at different angles for recording numbers. This was gradually augmented with pictographic writing using a sharp stylus to indicate what was being counted. Round-stylus and sharp-stylus writing was gradually replaced about 2700–2000 BC by writing using a wedge-shaped stylus (hence the term cuneiform), at first only for logograms, but developed to include phonetic elements by the 2800 BC. About 2600 BC cuneiform began to represent syllables of spoken Sumerian language.\n\nFinally, cuneiform writing became a general purpose writing system for logograms, syllables, and numbers. By the 26th century BC, this script had been adapted to another Mesopotamian language, Akkadian, and from there to others such as Hurrian, and Hittite. Scripts similar in appearance to this writing system include those for Ugaritic and Old Persian.\n\nThe Chinese script may have originated independently of the Middle Eastern scripts, around the 16th century BC (early Shang Dynasty), out of a late neolithic Chinese system of proto-writing dating back to c. 6000 BC. The pre-Columbian writing systems of the Americas, including Olmec and Mayan, are also generally believed to have had independent origins.\n\nThe first pure alphabets (properly, \"abjads\", mapping single symbols to single phonemes, but not necessarily each phoneme to a symbol) emerged around 2000 BC in Ancient Egypt, but by then alphabetic principles had already been incorporated into Egyptian hieroglyphs for a millennium (see Middle Bronze Age alphabets).\n\nBy 2700 BC, Egyptian writing had a set of some 22 hieroglyphs to represent syllables that begin with a single consonant of their language, plus a vowel (or no vowel) to be supplied by the native speaker. These glyphs were used as pronunciation guides for logograms, to write grammatical inflections, and, later, to transcribe loan words and foreign names.\n\nHowever, although seemingly alphabetic in nature, the original Egyptian uniliterals were not a system and were never used by themselves to encode Egyptian speech. In the Middle Bronze Age an apparently \"alphabetic\" system is thought by some to have been developed in central Egypt around 1700 BC for or by Semitic workers, but we cannot read these early writings and their exact nature remains open to interpretation.\n\nOver the next five centuries this Semitic \"alphabet\" (really a syllabary like Phoenician writing) seems to have spread north. All subsequent alphabets around the world with the sole exception of Korean Hangul have either descended from it, or been inspired by one of its descendants.\n\nThe history of telecommunication - the transmission of signals over a distance for the purpose of communication - began thousands of years ago with the use of smoke signals and drums in Africa, America and parts of Asia. In the 1790s the first fixed semaphore systems emerged in Europe however it was not until the 1830s that electrical [telecommunication] systems started to appear.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38493168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38493168", "title": "Huaulu language", "text": "Huaulu language\n\nHuaulu is a language of Seram, Indonesia.\n"}
{"id": "35812281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35812281", "title": "Human trafficking in New Zealand", "text": "Human trafficking in New Zealand\n\nHuman trafficking is a crime in New Zealand under Section 98D of the Crimes Act 1961. In 2002, the New Zealand Government ratified the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children (Palermo Protocol), a protocol to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime (UNTOC). New Zealand participates in efforts to combat human trafficking in the Asia-Pacific region, and has a leadership role in the Bali Process on People Smuggling, Human Trafficking and related Transnational Crime (Bali Process).\n\nAs human trafficking is not considered to be an active issue in New Zealand, the government focus is on prevention and identification of victims and offending. New Zealand has been classified as a destination country for human trafficking and a source location for domestic trafficking of forced labour, including children in the sex trade. According to the United States Department of State annual reporting on the effectiveness of government actions to address human trafficking, New Zealand has consistently achieved a Tier One (highest) ranking, achieving full compliance with the minimum standards as contained in the Trafficking Victims Protection Act 2000 (TVPA). These standards are generally consistent with the Palermo Protocol.\n\nTo implement the Palermo Protocol, the Crimes Act 1961 was amended to include the offence of human trafficking in 2002. In response to the Bali Process, New Zealand pledged to create a practical plan to address human trafficking and established the Inter Agency Working Group on People Trafficking (Working Group) in 2006. The Department of Labour, acting on behalf of the Working Group, released the \"Plan of Action to Prevent People Trafficking\" in 2009. The definition of human trafficking as involving exclusively transnational movement has meant that claims for domestic human trafficking in the workforce, sex industry and foreign fishing vessels have been pursued in other statutes, such as the Prostitution Reform Act 2003 (PRA) and the Immigration Act 2009 that attract lesser penalties. This issue is currently being addressed in a proposed legislative amendment. U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 1\" in 2017.\n\nThe Inter Agency Working Group consists of the Department of Labour (now the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE)), Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social Development, Ministry for Women, New Zealand Customs Service and the New Zealand Police. During the period of June to July in 2008, the Department of Labour held a public consultation to formulate a “whole of government approach” to human trafficking. 34 formal submissions were received which informed the development and subsequent publication of the \"Plan of Action to Prevent People Trafficking\" in 2009. The MBIE is responsible for ensuring that the plan is implemented and compiles an annual report on compliance. The plan of action contains three goals; Prevention, Protection and Prosecution. Under each of these, the plan identifies specific objectives and actions to be taken, and assigns a responsible agency and timetable for completion. The plan is considered to be a “living document”, and following the pending legislative reform is due to be reassessed.\n\nThe New Zealand Government is committed to equip and train government officials and front-line officers to identify trafficking and respond appropriately through the establishment of mandatory education programmes. This includes the promotion of public awareness in general. The MBIE is to conduct ongoing research in human trafficking and to assist in this, the National Intelligence Centre shares information legally with other governments.\n\nGiven that human trafficking may involve transnational networks, domestic efforts are unlikely to achieve full protection, as “despite being a minor destination country, New Zealand remains disturbed by the dimension of people trafficking in the neighbouring Asia Pacific region.\" New Zealand is a member of various International entities which address human trafficking, such as the Bali Process, the Pacific Immigration Directors’ Conference and the International Labour Organization (ILO). Financial assistance has been provided for human trafficking initiatives in the Asia Pacific region through the New Zealand Agency for International Development.\n\nVictims are certified with trafficked status by the New Zealand Police and the appropriate government agency conducts an investigation and may issue legal proceedings. If the victim is a temporary migrant, they may apply for an extension of visa for a 12-month period. Following the investigation, migrant victims may apply for a resident visa and receive ongoing protection, provided that they have not obstructed the investigation. The Health and Disability Eligibility Direction 2011 entitles all victims to receive government support, including legal aid, counselling and medical treatment, with full coverage under the Accident Compensation Scheme. Victims may apply to Housing New Zealand and the Ministry of Social Development for assistance in the case of financial hardship. Given the low level of trafficking cases in New Zealand, there is no resource allocation dedicated to these services. Victims are assessed on a case-by-case basis and may be directed to receive additional support from Non-governmental organizations.\n\nThe Crimes Amendment Act 2002 added Sections 98C and 98D to the Crimes Act 1961 which prohibit the smuggling of unauthorized migrants for material benefit, and the trafficking of persons by coercion or deception. As a crime against humanity, the penalties are comparable to rape and murder, with a maximum of 20 years imprisonment or $500,000 fine, or both. In accordance with the government’s “victim centred approach\", human trafficking may be established even if the victim acted voluntarily. Several aggravating factors are provided to allow for appropriate sentencing. All proceedings under these provisions require consent of the Attorney-General, and a claim may be filed even if the victim(s) did not actually enter New Zealand. The New Zealand Courts have extraterritorial jurisdiction over the crime of human trafficking and may prosecute New Zealand citizens who commit the offence on foreign territory. To date, no convictions have been recorded and it has been suggested that the lack of prosecutions and investigations is due to the high evidentiary bar of the current law. In August 2014, Immigration New Zealand charged three individuals with human trafficking, who have pleaded not guilty to arranging by deception the trafficking of 18 Indian nationals into forced labour in 2008-2009. The case has been referred to the High Court, and is pending trial in late 2015 to early 2016. In 2014, the Organised Crime and Anti-corruption Legislation Bill was introduced to Parliament. Clause 5 changes the definition of human trafficking to include domestic movement, bringing New Zealand into conformity with the international definition, and adds exploitation as an element to the offence. The Bill is currently receiving submissions and a report is due in May 2015.\n\nIn 2001 it emerged that migrant Thai women had been deceived into commercial sex arrangements in Auckland. No criminal prosecutions resulted, although one civil claim was successfully pursued. The Human Rights Commission undertook the ‘Pink Sticker Campaign’ to raise awareness of exploitation and advertise a safe house for victims, and the Ministry of Justice suspended the visa free status between New Zealand and Thailand. Labour inspectors visit legal brothels and the government regularly audits workplaces that employ migrants. Since the legalisation of prostitution in 2003, The Prostitution Reform Act (PRA) makes it an offence to compel commercial sexual services. To address the issue of illegal migrant sex workers, it is an offence to threaten to disclose unlawful immigrant status as a method of coercing a person to perform commercial sexual services. It is also an offence to abduct a person for the purposes of marriage or sexual connection with the abductor or any other person without consent or with consent under fraud or duress.\n\nThe US Department of State Trafficking in Persons Report 2014 identifies child prostitution as an issue, however there was no data available to support this claim. Government officials have responded on numerous occasions that the reports are based on media releases as opposed to police evidence. The PRA makes it an offence to facilitate or receive payment for commercial sex with a person under the age of 18, with a maximum penalty of 7 years imprisonment. Although persons aged 16 and over may legally have sex, the increased age reflects New Zealand's obligation to comply with international obligations concerning children. It is not an offence to provide commercial sexual services under the age of 18, as the child is considered the victim. New Zealand ratified the Optional Protocol on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography, and made it unlawful to deal with a person under the age of 18 for the purposes of sexual exploitation, the removal of body parts or the engagement of forced labour. In efforts to prohibit international sex tourism, The New Zealand Courts have jurisdiction over New Zealand citizens who engage in commercial sex on foreign territory with children under the age of 16.\n\nIn cases concerning underaged victims, the courts have noted their concern for deterrence in sentencing. In \"R v Raeleen Jo-Ann Prendeville\" it was held that the defendant has the burden to show absence of fault of the knowledge of the victim’s age. In \"R v Allan Geoffrey Pahl\" the fact that the defendant was misled to believe and pursue a fictional under-aged woman was irrelevant to the prosecution of the claim.\n\nSlavery, including debt bondage and serfdom is crime in New Zealand. Due to the extraterritorial definition of human trafficking, cases in the courts involving debt bondage and migrant labour have been prosecuted under Section 98 of the Crimes Act. Migrants pose a particular issues to combating human trafficking. They may lack information or understanding of their rights due to language and cultural differences. If they are restricted to work with a particular employer, they might submit to threats if it is preferable to deportation, and they may fear shame if their family has supported their arrival to New Zealand or are relying on their earnings. The Immigration Act 2009 allows for the prosecution of employers who exploit migrants or who commit serious breaches of employment laws such as the Holidays Act 2003, the Minimum Wage Act 1983 and the Wages Protection Act 1983. In April 2015 the Immigration Act 2009 was amended to extend these protections to legal workers. The government also targets the horticulture industry with its Regional Seasonal Employer (RSE) Policy which operates to maintain employment standards while responding to high labour demand.\n\nThe demand for workers in the Canterbury region following the 2011 earthquakes has raised concerns of forced labour for migrant workers. In 2013, the National Government pledged $7 million over four years towards this issue, allowing for the increased hiring of labour inspectors and immigration officers in the region.\n\nIn 1986, New Zealand adopted the fishing Quota Management System which allows Foreign Charter Vessels (FCV’s) to operate within New Zealand’s Exclusive Economic Zone(EEZ). Because these FCV’s were outside the jurisdiction of labour protections, employers have been able to exploit crew members and submit them to forced labour. New Zealand ratified the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea in 1996, which prohibits the transport of slaves, including within the EEZ.\n\nIn 1997, the first proceedings alleging human rights abuses on a FCV were brought in the New Zealand courts and the crew members were awarded compensation. The government conducted an investigation in 2004 and identified systemic human rights and contractual abuses but did not publicly release the findings. In September 2005, ten Indonesian crew of the Korean flagged \"Sky 75\" vessel fled at port and complained to the New Zealand Police of subjection to inhumane conditions and non-payment of wages. In 2006, the government published the code of Practice on Foreign Fishing Crew. As this was non-binding policy directive, there was no obligation for New Zealand authorities to enforce the code, therefore exploitation continued, with further successful claims in the courts raising awareness of the issue. In 2010 the \"Oyang 70\" sank, killing 6 crew members. Surviving crew members revealed that they had been subjected to human rights and contractual abuse. In 2011, crew members of the \"Shin Ji\" and \"Oyang 75\" alleged they had been subjected to physical, psychological and sexual abuse, suffered inhumane working conditions and punishments, and were underpaid or denied payment of wages, forced under threat to conceal this to authorities. Following these allegations, the government conducted a Ministerial inquiry in March 2012. A bill containing many of the recommendations in the report was introduced to Parliament but failed to pass. It was later reintroduced under urgency and the Fisheries (Foreign Charter Vessels and Other Matters) Amendment Act passed into New Zealand law in 2014. This amendment mandates that all FCV’s within the EEZ must reflag to New Zealand by 2016, which will allow the New Zealand Courts full jurisdiction over all crew members, who will then be entitled to the same protections that are available to all workers in New Zealand. Additionally, an Observer Programme has been implemented in order to effectively monitor the situation. The new legislation is hoped to bring an end to modern slavery in New Zealand's territorial waters.\n\nNew Zealand holds judicial membership of the Advisory Council of Jurists in the Asia Pacific Forum. Justice Susan Glazebrook has suggested that the judiciary must maintain an awareness of human trafficking as proceedings may be brought under different statutes, although the facts of the case may amount to the crime of human trafficking. The need for appropriate sentencing has been recognised, and the protection of victims, through the discretionary exercise of witness protection and consideration of the effects of their potential deportation.\n\nVarious non-governmental organizations operate in New Zealand to provide assistance to research programs, offer victim response and promote general public awareness. Examples include the Human Rights Commission, Stop the Traffik Aotearoa, Oxfam New Zealand, Justice Acts New Zealand, Child Alert (ECPAT) NZ, and Slave Free Seas. The Salvation Army has co-sponsored ‘Prevent People Trafficking’ conferences in 2013 and 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30059957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30059957", "title": "Indians in Cyprus", "text": "Indians in Cyprus\n\nThe community of Indians in Cyprus includes Indian expatriates in Cyprus, as well as Cypriot citizens of Indian origin or descent. Even though Cyprus has a much smaller community of Indians compared to other western countries, the community boasts over 2000 Indians primarily in the field of ICT (Information, Communication, Technology) and shipping industry. A large number are employed in various offshore companies. The multi-national company Amdocs maintains an office in Limassol which currently employs over 400 Indian software programmers.\n\nThe community also includes a large number of students who have come to Cyprus to pursue higher studies. The population has grown almost ten-fold since 1997, when there were barely 300-400 long term Indians present.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41306842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41306842", "title": "Indigenous peoples in Suriname", "text": "Indigenous peoples in Suriname\n\nIndigenous peoples in Suriname, Native Surinamese, or Amerindian Surinamese, are Surinamese people who are of indigenous ancestry. They comprise approximately 3.8% of Suriname's population of 566,846.\n"}
{"id": "18304863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18304863", "title": "International Agrarian Bureau", "text": "International Agrarian Bureau\n\nThe International Agrarian Bureau was founded in 1921 by the Agrarian parties of Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and Poland, growing to 17 political parties in Eastern Europe by 1928. It was sometimes referred to as the \"first Green International\". The Bureau was a key competitor with the Red Peasant International sponsored by the Communist International or Comintern. In 1947, the Bureau assumed the name of the International Peasants' Union. Stanisław Mikołajczyk was the president of the organization at one point.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26514185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26514185", "title": "Jats of Kutch", "text": "Jats of Kutch\n\nThe Jats of Kutch are a cattle breeding nomadic Muslim community, found in the Kutch region of Gujarat in India. They are one of a no number of communities of Maldhari pastoral nomads found in the Banni region of Kutch.\n\nThe Jat, or Jath claim descent from ancient pastoral tribes of the Indus delta (Indus River Delta) region of Sindh, where some members of the tribe still reside. Some that were assimilated from later waves of migration and who remain in Sindh are referred to as the Balochi Jats. From there, they moved into the Bani region in search of pastorage. With the partition of India, the Jat of Kutch have lost all contact with their kinsmen in Sindh. They appear to be distinct from the Jat community of North India and Punjab, Pakistan.\n\nThe Jats are a Maldhari cattle-herding group, and are mainly distributed in Kutch and Saurashtra. They have three territorial divisions, the Halari Jat (found in Jamnagar and Porbandar), Verai Jat (Banaskantha District), and Kutchi Jat (found in Kutch District). The Kutchi are further subdivided into the Dhanetah, Girasia and Fakirani, the latter consider themselves superior to the other two, and are strictly endogamous. They are further divided into clans like the Badajang, Podani, Aamar, Vangayi, while the Girasia are divided into the Mudrag, Bhallad and Hallayi. All these clans, except the Fakirani, enjoy equal status. The Saurashtra Jat, known as Malek, maintain a system of gotra exogamy.\n\nIn addition to cattle rearing, the community are also involved in the breeding of camels, especially the Fakirani. A good many of the Saurashtra community are small-scale peasant farmers. A few are landless, and work as agricultural labourers. The Kutch Jat are also known for their embroidery work.\n\n"}
{"id": "46783434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46783434", "title": "Kelantanese Malay people", "text": "Kelantanese Malay people\n\nKelantanese (Malaysian: \"Orang Kelantan\", Kelantanese: \"Oghe Kelate\") are a sub-ethnic group of Malays native to the state of Kelantan, Malaysia as well as in northern Terengganu (in the districts of Besut and northern Setiu). The Kelantanese Malays are closely related to Thai Malays (especially those in Pattani, Narathiwat, Yala and some parts in Phattalung and Nakhon Si Thammarat provinces) and Terengganuan Malays in neighbouring Terengganu, these two Malay sub-ethnic groups shared historical, cultural and linguistic as well as kinship ties with the Kelantanese Malays. Kelantanese Malays forms 94% of Kelantan's population, which makes them the largest ethnic group in Kelantan (other ethnic groups also lives in the state such as Kelantanese Chinese and Peranakans, Siamese, Tamils, Temiars and others) and around 150,000 in Besut, Terengganu.\n\nThe Kelantanese Malays, along with Terengganuan Malays and Pahang Malays (and sometimes Thai Malays and the Malays of Anambas islands and Natuna islands in Indonesia) are collectively referred to as the \"Orang Pantai Timur\" (People of the East Coast) which have a distinct identity than those of other parts of Malaysia, especially those in the North, South and Western coasts of Peninsular Malaysia. \n\nA research on population genetic structure of Malay sub-ethnic groups published in 2011 revealed that Kelantanese Malays formed a separate independent clade, suggesting that Kelantanese Malay had an ancestry that is more divergent than any other Malay sub-ethnic groups. This means, there might be evidence that the Kelantanese Malays are genetically different from other Malay populations. It was suggested that there are two explanations to the findings. First, the geolocation of the cradle of Kelantanese in the northeast of the Malaysian peninsula, separated by Titiwangsa mountain range, accounted for their limited links to the Indonesian Archipelago. The other explanation is that the sub-ethnic group might be an admixture with the Indian population in ancient times during the early existence of the Malays.\n\n\"see: Kelantan-Pattani Malay\"\n\nKelantanese Malays speak a highly divergent Kelantanese Malay, also known as \"Baso Kelate\" or \"Kecek Kelate\" by its native speakers. The language is known for its \"e\" and \"o\" sounds which is very different from standard Malay. One of the examples are \"Saye\" (which means love) but in Standard Malay it is called \"Sayang\" and \"Mano\" (which means where) but in Standard Malay it is \"Mana\". Kelantanese Malay has its own distinct grammar and vocabulary which makes other Malay speakers (except those in Terengganu and Southern Thailand) find it very difficult to understand. Kelantan-Pattani Malay has its own ISO 639-3 code \"mfa\". Kelantanese Malay has its own regional dialects but still mutually intelligible to one another, it is also spoken natively in Besut and Setiu (Terengganu) and similar varieties can be found in neighbouring Perak and Kedah but the latter two are considered variants of Pattani dialects instead of Kelantanese.\n\nKelantan is known by many as the \"Cradle of the Malay civilization\" in Peninsular Malaysia. Its culture is unique and different from those of other Malay sub-ethnic groups other than those in Southern Thailand. Due to their historic and geographic location, it also has considerable influences from Indian, Thai and even Cham cultures, especially during Hindu-Buddhist times. After the arrival of Islam in the region, the Kelantanese have been affiliated themselves with Islam and considered Islam as part of their culture (much like other Malays, Minangkabaus and Acehnese ethnic groups). Kelantan today is one of the most conservative states in Malaysia and the state has been under the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party since 1990. However, Kelantan is also known for its tolerance towards other religions and ethnic groups. There are many giant Buddhist statues all across the state as well as Christian churches and Hindu temples as well as indigenous religions of Orang Asli can still be seen in the state. The level of assimilation between Kelantanese ethnic groups is unique in Malaysia because they all share the sense of strong united Kelantanese identity. \n\nThere are a variety of Kelantanese Malay cuisine that includes:-\n\n\nAmong the popular traditional Kelantanese Malay dance are such as:-\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46703263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46703263", "title": "Klingalese", "text": "Klingalese\n\nKlingalese (Malay: Orang Keling, Dutch: Klingalezen, Kodja's, English: Klingalese) referred to an ethnic group in at least Dutch East Indies (Indonesia), Straits Settlements and British India, originating from the Coromandel Coast, Kalinga and the Malabar region. They were predominantly Shiite muslims and traders. At least at the beginning of the 20th century there was a Klingalese quarter in Padang. In British India \"Klingalese\" was also used to designate a specific ethnic group, witness antiquarian photography captions, shown here. \"Klingalezen\" was also used in the Dutch East Indies (Indonesia) in a broader sense including other Asian minorities as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "641260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=641260", "title": "Lila Kedrova", "text": "Lila Kedrova\n\nLila Kedrova (full name in Russian Елизавета (Лиля) Николаевна Кедрова) (9 October 1909- 16 February 2000) was a Russian-born French actress. She won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for \"Zorba the Greek\" (1964), and the Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Musical for the same role in the musical version of the film.\n\nKedrova said she was born in 1918 in Petrograd, Russia, yet she gave her age as 24 in a passenger list for New York City in February 1935 when touring with her theatre group, which implies a year of birth circa 1910, while her grave plaque states 1909. Accordingly, her brother's age was also given as 34 in a 1938-passenger list indicating a possible birth year 1903 or 1904 and not the generally accepted 1905.\nHer parents were Russian opera singers. Her father, Nikolay Kedrov, Sr. (1871-1940), was a singer and composer, a creator of the first Russian male quartet to perform liturgical chants. Her mother, Sofia Gladkaya (ru: ), was a singer at the Mariinsky Theatre and a teacher at the Conservatoire de Paris. Kedrova's brother Nikolay (1904?–1981) was a Russian singer and composer of liturgical music. Her sister Irene Kedroff was a soprano.\n\nSome time after the October Revolution, in 1922, the family emigrated to Berlin. In 1928 they moved to France, where Kedrova's mother taught at the Conservatoire de Paris, and her father again recreated the quartet \"Quatuor Kedroff\". In 1932, Kedrova joined the Moscow Art Theatre touring company. Then her film career began, mostly in French films, until her first English appearance in 1964 as Mme Hortense in \"Zorba the Greek\".\n\nHer performance won her the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress. Kedrova appeared in Alfred Hitchcock's 1966 film \"Torn Curtain\", playing the role of Countess Kuchinska. Kedrova played Fraulein Schneider in the West End stage production of \"Cabaret\" in 1968 alongside Judi Dench and Peter Sallis.\n\nShe then played a series of eccentric and crazy women in Hollywood films. In 1983, she reprised her role as Mme Hortense on Broadway in the musical version of \"Zorba the Greek\", winning both a Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Musical and a Drama Desk Award in the process. In 1989 she played Madame Armfeldt in the London revival of \"A Little Night Music\". \n\nHer second husband was Canadian stage director Richard Howard (1932-2017).\n\nIn 2000, Kedrova died at her summer home in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, Canada, of pneumonia, having suffered a long time with Alzheimer's disease. She was cremated. Her ashes are buried in her family grave in the Russian cemetery in Paris.\n\n"}
{"id": "31677997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31677997", "title": "List of Arbëresh settlements", "text": "List of Arbëresh settlements\n\nThis list of Arbëresh towns and villages is organized by their region of Italy.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12823318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12823318", "title": "List of University of Oxford people in education", "text": "List of University of Oxford people in education\n\nThis is a list of people from the University of Oxford involved in education. Many were students at one (or more) of the colleges of the University, and others held fellowships at a college. Some are known for their involvement in schools, including Thomas Arnold, Headmaster of Rugby School and Anthony Chenevix-Trench, Headmaster of Eton College. Others for their work with universities or educational administration, such as Lord Butterworth, the founding Vice-Chancellor of University of Warwick. University professors and lecturers who are primarily known for their work in their specialist field are found in other lists. This list forms part of a series of lists of people associated with the University of Oxford – for other lists, please see the main article List of University of Oxford people.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "715463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715463", "title": "List of interracial topics", "text": "List of interracial topics\n\nInterracial topics include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33958716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33958716", "title": "Mexican monarchy family tree", "text": "Mexican monarchy family tree\n\nThis is the family tree of Emperors of Mexico and their descendants, mostly members of the House of Iturbide. \n"}
{"id": "1266178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1266178", "title": "Nafaanra", "text": "Nafaanra\n\nNafaanra (sometimes written Nafaara, pronounced ) is a Senufo language spoken in northwest Ghana, along the border with Ivory Coast, east of Bondoukou. It is spoken by approximately 61,000 people. Its speakers call themselves Nafana, but others call them Banda or Mfantera. Like other Senufo languages, Nafaanra is a tonal language. It is somewhat of an outlier in the Senufo language group, with the geographically-closest relatives, the Southern Senufo Tagwana–Djimini languages, approximately to the west, on the other side of Comoé National Park.\n\nThe basic word order is subject–object–verb, like Latin and Japanese. Like other Niger–Congo languages, it has a noun class system, with nouns classified according to five different classes, which also affects pronouns, adjectives and copulas. The phonology features a distinction between the length of vowels and whether they are oral or nasal (as in French or Portuguese). There are also three distinct tones, a feature shared with the other Senufo languages. Nafaanra grammar features both tense and aspect which are marked with particles. Numbers are mainly formed by adding cardinal numbers to the number 5 and by multiplying the numbers 10, 20 and 100.\n\nNafaanra is bordered by Kulango languages to the west, while Deg (a Gur language) and Gonja (Kwa) are found to the north and east. The closest eastern neighbour is the Mande language Ligbi, whose speakers are also called \"Banda\") which, like Nafaanra, is an outlier to its own family. Southeast and south of Nafaanra and Ligbi, the Akan language Abron (also Bron or Brong) is spoken.\n\nThe Nafana people live in the north-west corner of the Brong-Ahafo Region of Ghana, concentrated mainly in Sampa (capital of the Jaman North district) and Banda. There are two dialectal variants of Nafaanra: Pantera of Banda, and Fantera of Sampa. Bendor-Samuel gives a 79% cognate relationship on the Swadesh list between the two dialects, meaning that they have many basic words in common. The Banda dialect is considered central. The terms \"Fantera\" and \"Pantera\" come from other peoples and are considered pejorative by the Nafana.\n\nThe Nafana people say that they come from a village called Kakala in Ivory Coast. Their oral history says that some of their people are still there, and if they go back they will not be allowed to leave again. They arrived in the Banda area after the Ligbi people, who came from Begho (Bigu, Bighu) to the area in the early 17th century.\n\nMany Nafana are bilingual in Twi, the regional lingua franca, to some extent. According to SIL, 50% of the people are able to \"satisfy routine social demands and limited requirements in other domains\", while 20% are able to speak Twi \"with sufficient structural accuracy and vocabulary to participate effectively in most formal and informal conversations on practical, social, and occupational topics\". The remaining 30% are either able to maintain only very simple face-to-face conversations on familiar topics (15%) or unable to speak Twi at all (15%). 15–25% of the Nafana people are literate in Twi, whereas only 1–5% are literate in Nafaanra.\n\nNafaanra is the second language of the approximately 70 Dompo people living in the close vicinity of Banda. Dompo is their first language, thought to be extinct until a field work trip of Blench in 1998 proved the contrary.\n\nMaurice Delafosse was the first linguist to mention Nafaanra, calling it \"a much dispersed Senufo tribe\" in 1904. Westermann in his classification of West-African languages, also grouped Nafaanra with Senufo, apparently based on the word list found in Rapp. This classification is confirmed by Bendor-Samuel, who bases his internal Senufo classification on the comparative word lists in Swadesh et al.\n\nIt is less clear which particular Senufo branch Nafaanra is related to most closely. Bendor-Samuel gives a 60% cognate relationship on the Swadesh list with \"Tenere\" (a western Senari dialect), 59% with \"Central Senari\" (the Senari dialect spoken around Korhogo), and 43% with the non-Senufo languages Mo (or Deg), Kabre (or Kabiye), and Dogon. The relatively low scores of about 60% point to a rather distant relationship. Likewise, Mensah and Tchagbale establish an intercomprensibility factor of 38% with \"Tyebaara\" (Senari), concluding that Nafaanra is only distantly related to this dialect. Nafaanra has been tentatively linked to Palaka (Kpalaga) by Manessy, whereas Mills suggests a relation with the southern Tagwana–Djimini branch.\n\nNafaanra has seven oral and five nasalized vowels. A difference in vowel length can make a difference in meaning, as in ', \"to go\", vs. ', \"fetish\" or \"o\", \"we\" vs. \"oo\", \"we will\". Similarly, the phonemic contrastiveness of nasalization can be seen in \"sii\", \"to be giving birth,\" vs. \"\", \"to build\". The vowel system closely resembles that of other Senufo languages. It is like the two Northern Senufo languages Supyire and Mamara in having only five nasal against seven oral vowels. In the orthography, nasalization of vowels is marked by adding the letter \"n\" after the vowel.\n\nIn the table below, orthographic symbols are included between brackets if they differ from the IPA symbols. Note especially the use of \"j\" for IPA and the use of \"y\" for IPA , common in African orthographies.\nThe consonant system of Nafaanra is fairly similar to that of other Senufo languages. Nafaanra has only one attested palatal fricative, , occupying an intermediate position between the Northern Senufo languages (Mamara, Supyire) that have both and its voiced counterpart , and the Central and Southern Senufo languages (e.g. Karaboro, Senari, Djimini) that have no palatal fricatives at all.\n\nLike the other Senufo languages, Nafaanra has three contrastive tones: High, Mid and Low. Tone is normally not marked in the Nafaanra orthography. Examples are:\nThe Mid tone sometimes has a rising feature, the High tone sometimes is subject to downstep (a tonal process resulting in a High tone being realised lower than a preceding High tone), and an upstep is also found. The \"rising feature\" of Mid may be related to the fact that two different Mid tones are found in some other Senufo languages (e.g. Sucite and Supyire). The High tone downstep (signified by a raised exclamation mark) occurs in the following context:\nIt is likely that the tonal lowering seen in this particular example is related to the low tone nasal prefix found in future tense constructions in some other Senufo languages. In fact, Supyire shows a similar phenomenon in future tense constructions with a direct object (in other future tense constructions, a low tone nasal is found).\nIn general however, downstep is more widespread than in Supyire; a similar phenomenon is found in Palaka, Tagwana, and Djimini.\n\nAn upstep is found in the imperative tense of high tone verbs:\n\nThe Nafaanra syllable comprises a vowel and a maximum of three consonants. A nasal consonant may occur as a syllable on its own, in which case it is called a \"syllabic nasal\". The basic syllable structure can be rendered as (C)(C)V(C), with a preference for CV and CVV. Position C may contain any consonant, although word-initial /r/ does not occur. Position C may contain only trills (/r/) or approximants (/w, l, j/). Position C may contain only nasals (), in which case the syllable as a whole is nasalized.\n\nSenufo languages have a typical Niger–Congo noun class (or gender) system. Suffixes on nouns mark membership of one of the five noun genders. Pronouns, adjectives and copulas reflect the noun gender of the nominal they refer to. Although none of the sources on Nafaanra provides any details, it can be inferred from a brief word list given by Jordan that the Nafaanra noun class system resembles that of other Senufo languages.\n\nThe basic word order in Nafaanra is subject–object–verb, as can be seen in the following sentence:\n\nJordan lists the following list of pronouns, commenting, \"Although the pronoun system appears quite simple, it becomes complicated because all the tenses are shown by a combination of pronoun plus particle.\"\n\nTense and aspect in Nafaanra are generally encoded in two places: in preverbal particles and on the verb form. Nafaanra has past, recent past, and future tenses and continuative aspect. In a simple sentence, the order of the various constituents can be rendered as follows: . When the negative suffix \"-n\" is present, no fusing of preverbal particles takes place. Nafaanra additionally expresses some tense/aspect matters by use of certain time adverbs and auxiliary verbs.\nPast tense is marked by the preverbal particle \"ná\" (high tone, as opposed to the low tone continuative particle). Future tense is marked by the particle \"wè\". Simple sentences without a preverbal tense particle are interpreted as recent past (sometimes called \"immediate\"). If aspect marking is absent, simple sentences are generally interpreted as \"completive\".\n\nContinuative aspect (sometimes called \"progressive\") denotes an action that is ongoing or repetitive. Continuative aspect is usually marked both by a preverbal particle \"nà\" (low tone) and by a change of the verb form. The verb \"sɛ́\", \"go\" used in the sentences below has the continuative form \"síé\". In sentences where both past tense particle \"ná\" and continuative particle \"nà\" are present, they combine to give the fused particle \"náà\". In sentences in the recent past tense, the preverbal continuative particle is omitted and continuative aspect is shown only on the verb.\n\nTwo classes of verbs can be differentiated on the basis of their behaviour in aspectually marked sentences. One class of verbs has two aspectually distinct forms, as seen in the above example sentences. Another class of verbs does not distinguish aspect—one and the same form shows up in both completive and continuative aspect. In sentences in the recent past tense, this gives rise to ambiguity since the preverbal continuative particle is omitted there. Thus, the sentence \"kòfí blú\" can be interpreted in the following two ways:\n\nConsiderable fusion takes place between pronominal subjects and the preverbal particles. For example, \"ná\" \"\" fuses with \"pé\", \"they\", to produce \"prá sɛ́\" (they- go-completive), \"they went\", and \"wè\" \"\" fuses with \"pé\" in \"píè sɛ́\" (they- go-completive), \"they will go\".\n\nQuestions can be formed in several ways in Nafaanra. Basic yes–no questions are constructed by adding a sentence-final question marker \"rá\". Constituent questions (sometimes called \"Wh-questions\" or \"question word questions\") are doubly marked. They contain a sentence-initial question word and are marked with a sentence-final question marker \"hin\".\n\nThe cardinal numbers without tonal marking are presented below; where possible, the tone pattern is added based on the list in Rapp. Some Supyire correlates are given for comparison. Numbers six to nine are derived by adding the numbers one to four to \"kɔɔ\", \"five\", by means of the conjunction \"na\".\nThe numbers 11–19 are formed by adding 1–9 to 10 by means of the conjunction \"mbɔ\", e.g. \"kɛmbɔnunu\", \"eleven\", \"kɛmbɔkunɔ\", \"fifteen\". In the tens and higher, the Nafaanra and Supyire systems diverge. Multiplication of \"fulo\", \"twenty,\" and addition of \"kɛ\", \"ten\", (by means of the conjunction \"ná\") is used to form the 30–90 tens. Perhaps surprisingly, there are considerable differences between Rapp (1933) and Jordan (1980) here. In Rapp's 60, 70 and 80, \"féle\" seems to be used to mark ten, which conjoined with 6, 7 and 8 forms 60, 70 and 80.\n\nRapp (1933) compares the Nafaanra numerals for three (\"táárɛ\") and hundred (\"lafaa\") with \"eta\" and \"ke-lafa\" from Mpre, a hitherto unclassified language from Ghana. It should be noted however that Mpre \"eta\" is Kwa-like (cf. Brong \"esã\", Ga \"etɛ\"), whereas the Nafaanra form \"táárɛ\" is transparently related to the forms found in the other (non-Kwa) Senufo languages (e.g. Supyire \"tàànrè\").\nNafaanra \"lafaa\" \"hundred\" is a typical Kwa numeral and is most probably borrowed from one of the surrounding Kwa languages (cf. Dangme \"làfá\", Gonja \"kì-làfá\", Ewe \"alafá\"). Rapp's implication of affinity between Mpre and Nafaanra seems therefore unwarranted at this level.\n\nMorphophonological alternations occur here and there, most notably the reduction of \"kúnɔ\", \"five\" to \"kɔ́ɔ̀\" (preserving the tone pattern) and the change from \"lafaa\" to \"lafɛɛ\" in the hundreds.\n\nThe three basic colour words of Nafaanra are: \"wɔɔ\", \"black\", \"finge\", \"white\", and \"ɲiɛ\", \"red\". As with adjectives in Senufo languages, the form of the colour words reflects the noun class of the noun that is modified.\nThe cognate forms in closely related Supyire are \"-ɲyɛ-\", \"red; warm colored\", and \"-fyìn-\", \"white; light colored\", in Supyire. These adjectives are related to the respective verbs \"fíníŋɛ́\", \"be white; whiten\" and \"ɲááŋá\", \"be red; redden\", which in turn are causative forms of the now defunct verbs \"fini\",\"be white\" and \"ɲana\", \"be red\".\n\nSample Nafaanra sentences from the SIL:\n\nThere is relatively little published on or in the Nafaanra language. The first linguistic publication to mention Nafaanra is Delafosse (1904), containing some notes on the Nafana people and a fairly extensive comparative Senufo word list, though it lacked any proper tonal marking. Rapp (1933) is an appendix to an article on the Kulango language containing a German-Nafaanra (\"Nafana-Sprache\") word list of around 100 items, gathered during a stay of four hours at Sampa. Rapp notes in passing that special attention was paid to the marking of the tones.\n\nAfter a period of silence on Nafaanra, Painter (1966) appeared, consisting of basic word lists of the Pantera and Fantera dialects. The SIL linguist Dean Jordan published an article on Nafaanra discourse in 1978, and together with his wife Carol Jordan has produced a translation of the New Testament, which appeared in 1984. Kropp-Dakubu's 1980 \"West African language data sheets\" vol II contains a few pages on Nafaanra put together in the late seventies by Dean and Carol Jordan, including a phonology, a list of nouns, a list of pronouns, a list of numbers, and some example sentences; tones are not marked. A more detailed phonology of Nafaanra by Jordan, also containing a Swadesh list, appeared in 1980. Several books of Nafana folk tales have been published by the Summer Institute of Linguistics. Mensah and Tchagbale in their 1983 linguistic atlas of Ivory Coast include a comparative Senufo word list of about 120 items; Nafaanra is present under the name \"Nafara of Bondoukou\". An orthography of Nafaanra, lacking tonal marking, is included in Hartell (1993). The area where Nafaanra is spoken has been the subject of recent archaeological-anthropological studies (Stahl 2004).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4046821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4046821", "title": "Orang Rimba people", "text": "Orang Rimba people\n\nThe Orang Batin Sembilan, Orang Rimba or Anak Dalam are mobile, animist peoples who live throughout the lowland forests of southeast Sumatra. Kubu is a Malay exonym ascribed to them. In the Malay language, the word Kubu can mean defensive fortification, entrenchment, or a place of refuge. It is metaphor for how the majority and dominant Islamic Melayu villagers believe them to use the interior forests as a means for resisting inclusion in the larger Malay social and Islamic religious world. As is the case with other forest peoples in the region, the term Kubu is associated with very negative connotations. \n\nFollowing Malay classifications, early Europeans divided the Kubu into two categories: 'tame' or 'civilized' Kubu, who were predominantly swidden farmers, and 'wild' Kubu, who lived deep in the forests, and made much stronger efforts to avoid close relations with the outside world. While closely related to Malay speaking peoples, these peoples represent two separate cultural groups, which have different economic and socio-religious systems.\n\nTraditionally referred to as civilized Kubu, the Orang Batin Sembilan are a larger population of swidden-based peoples who live in the central and eastern lowland forests of South Sumatra (pop. ~35,000) and Jambi (pop. ~10,000) . Like other people in the region, these people traditionally use the swidden field as a base camp from which to exploit resources in the forests, particularly when collecting forest products for trade.\n\nThe Orang Rimba ('people of the forest') are a much smaller population of people (~3000) who live in the upstream regions of Jambi and South Sumatran. They have a unique, diverse economy, which shifts in and out of two base subsistence strategies: swidden farming and a very nomadic life based on foraging wild yams. This is traditionally combined with hunting, trapping, fishing, and the collection of forest products for trade. For many, part-time rubber tapping and participation in logging has gradually replaced the collection of forest products. \n\nOrang Rimba life is characterized by small and changing camps, which can be the size of a nuclear family when digging for wild yams, but more commonly is based around an extended family, and can include several extended families whenever swidden farming. Their social relations are very egalitarian, while hierarchies are largely based upon age, gender and knowledge of religion and culture law.\n\n\"Sokola Rimba\" is a 2013 Indonesian film featuring the lifestyle of the Rimba people.\n\nSince the 1970s, many of these peoples have been displaced from their traditional lands by logging companies and palm oil plantations, and for some time have been the target of government settlement projects.. Additionally, the peoples of these tribes are frequently being forcibly converted to state-approved religions, primarily Islam.\n\nThe various Kubu languages belong to the Malayo-Polynesian branch of the Austronesian language family. They are isolects of the Malay language (Bahasa Melayu) spoken in the upstream regions of Palembang and Jambi, Sumatra. All are similar to Bahasa Indonesia, which is based upon a variant of Malay.\n"}
{"id": "362605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362605", "title": "Poa pratensis", "text": "Poa pratensis\n\nPoa pratensis, commonly known as Kentucky bluegrass (or blue grass), smooth meadow-grass, or common meadow-grass, is a perennial species of grass native to practically all of Europe, northern Asia and the mountains of Algeria and Morocco. Although the species is spread over all of the cool, humid parts of the U.S., it is not native to North America. The Spanish brought the seeds of Kentucky bluegrass to the New World in mixtures with other grasses. \"Poa pratensis\" forms a valuable pasture plant, characteristic of well-drained, fertile soil. It is also used for making lawns in parks and gardens and is common in cool moist climates like the northeastern United States. When found on native grasslands in Canada, however, it is considered an unwelcome exotic plant, and is indicative of a disturbed and degraded landscape.\n\n\"Poa pratensis\" was one of the many species described by Carl Linnaeus in his landmark work \"Species Plantarum\" in 1753. \"Poa\" is Greek for fodder and \"pratensis\" is derived from \"pratum\", the Latin for meadow. The name Kentucky bluegrass derives from its flower heads, which are blue when the plant is allowed to grow to its natural height of .\n\n\"Poa pratensis\" is the type species of the grass family Poaceae.\n\nThere are two ill-defined subspecies:\n\n\"Poa pratensis\" is a herbaceous perennial plant tall. The leaves have boat-shaped tips, narrowly linear, up to long and broad, smooth or slightly roughened, with a rounded to truncate ligule long. The conical panicle is long, with 3 to 5 branches in the basal whorls; the oval spikelets are long with 2 to 5 florets, and are purplish-green or grey. They are in flower from May to July, compared to annual meadowgrass (\"Poa annua\") which is in flower for eight months of the year. \"Poa pratensis\" has a fairly prominent mid-vein (center of the blade).\n\nThe ligule is extremely short and square ended, making a contrast with annual meadowgrass (\"Poa annua\") and rough meadowgrass (\"Poa trivialis\") in which it is silvery and pointed. The Kentucky bluegrass is a dark green/blue compared to the apple-green color of \"Poa annua\" and \"Poa trivialis\".\n\nThe rootstock is creeping, with runners (rhizomes). The broad, blunt leaves tend to spread at the base, forming close mats.\n\nThis species is among the food plants of the caterpillars of the meadow brown (\"Maniola jurtina\") and gatekeeper (\"Pyronia tithonus\") butterflies; the common sun beetle (\"Amara aenea\") (adults feed on the developing seeds), \"Eupelix cuspidata\" of the leafhopper family, and \"Myrmus miriformis\", a grassbug (feeds on young blades and developing seeds).\n\nSince the 1950s and early 1960s, 90% of Kentucky bluegrass seed in the United States has been produced on specialist farms in Idaho, Oregon and Washington.\n\nDuring the 1990s botanists began experimenting with hybrids of \"Poa pratensis\" and Texas bluegrass (\"P. arachnifera\"), with the goal of creating a drought and heat-resistant lawn grass.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "912343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=912343", "title": "Publication subvention", "text": "Publication subvention\n\nIn academic publishing, a publication subvention is guaranteed funding towards a partial subsidy of a scholar's publication in book form.\n\nThe idea has recently been proposed as a possible solution to the \"crisis,\" as some identify it, associated with the difficulty of publishing scholarly books, emerging from the combination of small audiences (with many academic-press books losing money on their publication, and even good sellers profiting publishers only in the thousands of dollars) and high demands (with a published book typically required for tenure in many fields). Typical proposals call for a publication subvention of a few thousand dollars to be associated with each new faculty job, or even with each admitted Ph.D. student, by the sponsoring institution, in order to alleviate the financial strain on the academic presses' finances and allow them to choose works for publication based purely on merit.\n"}
{"id": "47234168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47234168", "title": "Socio Economic and Caste Census 2011", "text": "Socio Economic and Caste Census 2011\n\nThe Socio Economic and Caste Census 2011 (SECC) was conducted for the 2011 Census of India.\n\nBoth major political parties, the Indian National Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party had differences within the party over caste-based census.\nLeader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha Sushma Swaraj supported the idea of caste-based census, while then Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram was against it citing practical difficulties in counting caste while conducting the census. SECC 2011 data will also be used to identify beneficiaries and expand the direct benefit transfer scheme as part of its plans to build upon the JAM (Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana-Aadhaar-Mobile Governance) trinity. SECC 2011 also counted other aspects like Manual scavenging and Transgender count in India. SECC 2011 was not conducted under 1948 Census of India Act, which in turn made information disclosure voluntary for citizens, and not a mandatory disclosure. Socio Economic and Caste Census 2011 was the fourth exercise conducted by Government of India to identify households living below the poverty line (BPL) in India that would get various entitlements, after three censuses in 1992, 1997 and 2002. The last BPL census was conducted in India in 2002 and the procedure adopted was to collect information on 13 indicators for every rural household and assign a mark for each of these. The first caste census was conducted in India in 1881. In January 2017, Central Government accepted recommendations to use Socio-Economic Caste Census, instead of poverty line, as the main instrument for identification of beneficiaries and transferring of funds for social schemes in rural areas.\n\nSECC 2011 has three census components which were conducted by three separate authorities, but under the overall coordination of Department of Rural Development in the Government of India:\n\nSECC data 2011 has been referred for analysis by an expert group, headed by NITI Aayog Vice-Chairman Arvind Panagariya. This expert group is set up by the ministries of social justice and tribal development, before making public.\n\nSocio Economic and Caste Census 2011 conducted by the Registrar General of India has come out with 46,73,034 categories of caste, sub-caste, synonyms, different surnames, gotras in the caste and clan names. These caste data has been sent to the all the states in November 2014 for clubbing them to consolidate the caste count. On 28 July 2015, Government of India said that a total of 8,19,58,314 errors were found in caste particulars and all states and Union Territories, of which 6,73,81,119 errors have been rectified. However, 1,45,77,195 errors are yet to be rectified.\n\nThe Census 2011 recorded 11.65 lakh rural houseless people, while in SECC their numbers were only 6.1 lakh. The provisional rural data of SECC 2011 shows Scheduled Castes at 18.46% (or 15.88 crore), Scheduled Tribes at 10.97% (9.27 crore), Others at 68.52%, and 2.04% (or 36.57 lakh) as “No Caste & Tribe” households.\n\n\nSECC 2011 data was criticised by a few experts as being unreliable. There is criticism that caste related data is deliberately withheld, similar to the religious data of 2011 Census of India. The religious data of Census 2011 was finally released by Government of India on 25 August 2015. On 13 July 2015, Lalu Prasad Yadav led a march demanding the Central government to release the findings of the SECC on caste. Politicians like M Karunanidhi and Anbumani Ramadoss too demanded to release the caste-based census data that will help to provide the key to justify the existing 69 per cent quota for backward communities in Tamil Nadu. Nitish Kumar and Veerappa Moily also accused the Central Government of withholding caste-based census data, although Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan pitched for a comprehensive classification of caste data of SECC 2011 before its release. BJP Leader Sushil Kumar Modi called for rectification of errors in the cases of 1.46 crore people in India, including 1.75 lakh in Bihar before releasing the caste data. The OBCs were found to comprise 52% of the country's population by the Mandal Commission report of 1980, a figure which had shrunk to 41% by 2006 when the National Sample Survey Organisation took place. Below is the distribution of population of each Religion by Caste Categories, obtained from merged sample of Schedule 1 and Schedule 10 of available data from the National Sample Survey Organisation 55th (1999-2000) and National Sample Survey Organisation 61st Rounds (2004–05) Round Survey The number of backward castes and communities was 3,743 in the initial list of Mandal Commission set up in 1979-80. The number of backward castes in Central list of OBCs has now increased to 5,013 (without the figures for most of the Union Territories) in 2006 as per National Commission for Backward Classes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47116845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47116845", "title": "Tiwanaku empire", "text": "Tiwanaku empire\n\nThe Tiwanaku state ( or ) was a Pre-Columbian polity in western Bolivia based in the southern Lake Titicaca Basin. Tiwanaku was one of the most significant Andean civilizations. Its influence extended into present-day Peru and Chile and lasted from around AD 550 to 1000. Its capital was the monumental city of Tiwanaku, located at the center of the state's core area in the southern Lake Titicaca Basin. This area has clear evidence for large-scale agricultural production on raised fields that probably supported the urban population of the capital. Researchers debate whether these fields was administered by a bureaucratic state (top-down) or through collaboration of a segmented state or federation with local autonomy (bottom-up; see review of debate in Janusek 2004:57-73). One obsolete theory suggests that Tiwanaku was an expansive military empire, based on comparisons to the later Inca Empire, but supporting evidence is weak.\n\nTiwanaku was a multi-cultural \"hospitality state\" that brought people together to build large monuments, perhaps as part of large religious festivals. This may have been the central dynamic that attracted people from hundreds of kilometers away, who may have traveled there as part of llama caravans to trade, make offerings, and honor the gods. Tiwanaku grew into the Andes' most important pilgrimage destination and one of the continent's largest Pre-Columbian cities, reaching a population of 10,000 to 20,000 around AD 800. \n\nOutside of the state's core area in the southern Lake Titicaca Basin, there were Tiwanaku colonies on the coast of Peru, where highland people imitated Tiwanaku temples and ceramics, and cemeteries in northern Chile with elaborate grave goods in the Tiwanaku style. Despite the clear connections to these enclaves, there is little evidence that the state controlled the territory or people in between, that is, its territory was not contiguous. With a few important exceptions, the state's influence outside the Lake Titicaca Basin was \"soft power\" that blossomed into a powerful, wide-spread, and enduring cultural hegemony.\n\nThe site of Tiwanaku was founded around AD 110 during the Late Formative Period, when there were a number of growing settlements in the southern Lake Titicaca Basin. Between AD 450 and 550, other large settlements were abandoned, leaving Tiwanaku as the pre-eminent center in the region. Beginning around AD 600 its population exploded, probably due to a massive immigration from the surrounding countryside, and large parts of the city were built or remodeled. New and larger carved monoliths were erected, temples were built, and a standardized polychrome pottery style was produced on a massive scale.\n\nTiwanaku's influence, most clearly documented by the presence of its decorated ceramics, expanded into the Yungas and influenced many other cultures in Peru, Bolivia, and northern Argentina and Chile. Some statues at Tiwanaku were taken from other regions, where the stones were placed in a subordinate position to the Gods of the Tiwanaku. They displayed the power that their state had over others. Archaeologists have documented Tiwanaku ceramics at a large number of sites in and beyond the Lake Titicaca Basin, attesting to the expansive influence of Tiwanaku symbols and attached messages of power.\n\nThe population grew rapidly between 600 and 800, becoming an important regional power in the southern Andes. William H. Isbell states that \"Tiahuanaco underwent a dramatic transformation between 600 and 700 that established new monumental standards for civic architecture and greatly increased the resident population.\" Early estimates suggested the city covered approximately 6.5 square kilometers at with 15,000 to 30,000 inhabitants. More recent surveys estimate the site's maximum size between 3.8 and 4.2 square kilometers and a population of 10,000 to 20,000.\n\nIn the rest of the southern Lake Titicaca Basin, hundreds of smaller settlements have been found. Some of the largest and most important were Lukurmata, Qeya Kuntu, Kirawi, Waka Kala, Sonaji, Kala Uyuni, and Khonko Wankane.\n\nArchaeologists such as Paul Goldstein have showed that the Tiwanaku diaspora expanded outside of the altiplano area and into the Moquegua Valley in Peru. After AD 750, there is growing Tiwanaku presence at the Chen Chen site and the Omo site complex, where a ceremonial center was built. Excavations at Omo settlements show signs of similar architecture characteristic of Tiwanaku, such as a temple and terraced mound. Evidence of similar types of artificial cranial deformation in burials between the Omo site and the main site of Tiwanaku is also being used for this argument.\n\nTiwanaku established several colonies as far as 300 km away. One of the better researched is the colony in Moquegua Valley in Peru, which is 150 km from lake Titicaca and flourished between 400 and 1100. This colony was an agricultural and mining center, producing copper and silver. Small colonies were also established in Chile’s Azapa Valley.\n\nTiwanaku's location between the lake and dry highlands provided key resources of fish, wild birds, plants, and herding grounds for camelids, particularly llamas. Tiwanaku's economy was based on exploiting the resources of the lake Titicaca, herding of llamas and alpacas and organized farming in raised field systems. Llama meat was consumed and potatoes, quinoa, beans and maize grown. Storage of food was important in the uncertain high altitude climate, so technologies for freeze-dried potatoes and sun-dried meat were developed.\n\nThe Titicaca Basin is the most productive environment in the area, with predictable and abundant rainfall. The Tiwanaku culture developed expanded farming. To the east, the Altiplano is an area of very dry arid land. The Tiwanaku developed a distinctive farming technique known as \"flooded-raised field\" agriculture (\"suka qullu\"). Such fields were used widely in regional agriculture, together with irrigated fields, pasture, terraced fields and artificial ponds. Water from Katari and Tiwanku rivers was used to water raised fields, that covered up to 130 square km.\n\nArtificially raised planting mounds were separated by shallow canals filled with water. The canals supply moisture for growing crops, but they also absorb heat from solar radiation during the day. This heat is gradually emitted during the bitterly cold nights and provided thermal insulation against the endemic frost in the region. Traces of similar landscape management have been found in the Llanos de Moxos region (Amazonian flood plains of the Moxos). Over time, the canals also were used to farm edible fish. The resulting canal sludge was dredged for fertilizer.\n\nThough labor-intensive, a \"suka qullu\" produces impressive yields. While traditional agriculture in the region typically yields 2.4 metric tons of potatoes per hectare, and modern agriculture (with artificial fertilizers and pesticides) yields about 14.5 metric tons per hectare, \"suka qullu\" agriculture yields an average of 21 tons per hectare. Modern agricultural researchers have re-introduced the technique of \"suka qullu\". Significantly, the experimental suka qullu fields recreated in the 1980s by University of Chicago´s Alan Kolata and Oswaldo Rivera suffered only a 10% decrease in production following a 1988 freeze that killed 70-90% of the rest of the region's production. Development by the Tiwanaku of this kind of protection against killing frosts in an agrarian civilization was invaluable to their growth.\n\nAs the population grew, occupational niches developed, and people began to specialize in certain skills. There was an increase in artisans, who worked in pottery, jewelry and textiles. Like the later Incas, the Tiwanaku had few commercial or market institutions. Instead, the culture relied on elite redistribution. In this view of Tiwanaku as a bureaucratic state, elites controlled the economic output, but were expected to provide each commoner with all the resources needed to perform his or her function. Selected occupations include agriculturists, herders, pastoralists, etc. Such separation of occupations was accompanied by hierarchichal stratification. The elites gained their status by control of the surplus of food obtained from all regions, which they then redistributed among all the people. Control of llama herds became very significant to Tiwanaku. The animals were essential for transporting staple and prestige goods.\n\nSuddenly around AD 1000, Tiwanaku ceramics stopped being produced as the state's largest colony (Moquegua) and the urban core of the capital were abandoned within a few decades. The end date for the Tiwanaku state is sometimes extended to AD 1150, but this only considers raised fields, not urban occupation or ceramic production. One proposed explanation is that a severe drought rendered the raised-field systems ineffective, food surplus dropped, and with it, elite power, leading to state collapse. However, this narrative has been challenged, in part because of more refined cultural and climate chronologies, which now suggest that the drought did not start until AD 1020 or 1040, shortly after the state's explosive collapse.\n\nThis lends greater support to alternative theories of collapse that suggest social dynamics within the Tiwanaku state led to its demise. Some areas of the capital show signs of intentional destruction, though this could have taken place at any time. Monolithic gates, like Gateway of the Sun, were tipped over and broken. By the end of Tiwanaku V period the Putuni complex was burned and food storage jars smashed. This indicates an event of destruction, followed by abandonment of the site. Colonies in Moquegua and on Isla del Sol were also abandoned around this time.\n\nWhat is known of Tiwanaku religious beliefs is based on archaeological interpretation and some myths, which may have been passed down to the Incas and the Spanish. They seem to have worshipped many gods, perhaps centered on agriculture. One of the most important gods was one that would eventually develop into the Incan God Viracocha, the god of action, shaper of many worlds, and destroyer of many worlds. He created people, with two servants, on a great piece of rock. Then he drew sections on the rock and sent his servants to name the tribes in those areas.\n\nIn Tiwanaku, he created the people out of rock and brought life to them through the earth. The Tiwanaku believed that Viracocha created giants to move the massive stones that comprise much of their archaeology, but then grew unhappy with the giants and created a flood to destroy them.\n\nViracocha is carved into the noted Gateway of the Sun, to overlook his people and lands. The Gateway of the Sun is a monolithic structure of regular, non-monumental size. Its dimensions suggest that other regularly sized buildings existed at the site. It was found at Kalasasaya, but due to the similarity of other gateways found at Pumapunku, it is thought to have been originally part of a series of doorways there. It is recognized for its singular, great frieze. This is thought to represent a main deity figure surrounded by either calendar signs or natural forces for agricultural worship. Along with Viracocha, another statue is in the Gateway of the Sun. This statue is believed to be associated with the weather: \n\nOther evidence points to a system of ancestor worship at Tiwanaku. The preservation, use, and reconfiguration of mummy bundles and skeletal remains, as with the later Inca, may suggest that this is the case. Later cultures within the area made use of large \"above ground burial chambers for the social elite... known as \"chullpas\". Similar, though smaller, structures were found within the site of Tiwanaku.\n\nKolata suggests that, like the later Inca, the inhabitants of Tiwanaku may have practiced similar rituals and rites in relation to the dead. The Akapana East Building has evidence of ancestor burial. The human remains at Akapana East seem to be less for show and more for proper burial. The skeletons show many cut marks that were most likely made by defleshing or excarnation after death. The remains were then bundled up and buried rather than left out in the open.\n\nThe Tiwanaku conducted human sacrifices on top of a building known as the Akapana. People were disemboweled and torn apart shortly after death and laid out for all to see. It is speculated that this ritual was a form of dedication to the gods. The type of human sacrifice included victims being hacked in pieces, dismembered, exposed to the elements and carnivores before being deposed in trash. Research showed that one man who was sacrificed was not a native to the Titicaca Basin, leaving room to think that sacrifices were most likely of people originally from other societies.\n\nTiwanaku monumental architecture is characterized by large stones of exceptional workmanship. In contrast to the masonry style of the later Inca, Tiwanaku stone architecture usually employs rectangular ashlar blocks laid in regular courses. Their monumental structures were frequently fitted with elaborate drainage systems. The drainage systems of the Akapana and Pumapunku structures include conduits composed of red sandstone blocks held together by ternary (copper/arsenic/nickel) bronze architectural cramps. The codice_1-shaped architectural cramps of the Akapana were created by cold hammering of ingots. In contrast, the cramps of the Pumapunku were created by pouring molten metal into codice_1-shaped sockets. The blocks have flat faces that do not need to be fitted upon placement because the grooves make it possible for the blocks to be shifted by ropes into place. The main architectural appeal of the site comes from the carved images and designs on some of these blocks, carved doorways, and giant stone monoliths.\n\nThe quarries that supplied the stone blocks for Tiwanaku lie at significant distances from this site. The red sandstone used in this site's structures has been determined by petrographic analysis to come from a quarry 10 kilometers away—a remarkable distance considering that the largest of these stones weighs 131 metric tons. The green andesite stones that were used to create the most elaborate carvings and monoliths originate from the Copacabana peninsula, located across Lake Titicaca. One theory is that these giant andesite stones, which weigh over 40 tons, were transported some 90 kilometers across Lake Titicaca on reed boats, then laboriously dragged another 10 kilometers to the city.\n\nLukurmata, located in the Katari valley was the second great city of the Tiwanaku state. Between 600 and 800 it expanded from 20 hectares to 120 hectares. First established nearly two thousand years ago, it grew to be a major ceremonial center in the Tiwanaku state, a polity that dominated the south-central Andes from 400 to 1200. After the Tiwanaku state collapsed, Lukurmata rapidly declined, becoming once again a small village. The site shows evidence of extensive occupation that antedates the Tiwanakan civilization.\n\nThe Tiwanaku shared domination of the Middle Horizon with the Wari culture (based primarily in central and south Peru) although found to have built important sites in the north as well (Cerro Papato ruins). Their culture rose and fell around the same time; it was centered 500 miles north in the southern highlands of Peru. The relationship between the two polities is unknown. Definite interaction between the two is proved by their shared iconography in art. Significant elements of both of these styles (the split eye, trophy heads, and staff-bearing profile figures, for example) seem to have been derived from that of the earlier Pukara culture in the northern Titicaca Basin.\n\nThe Tiwanaku created a powerful ideology, using previous Andean icons that were widespread throughout their sphere of influence. They used extensive trade routes and shamanistic art. Tiwanaku art consisted of legible, outlined figures depicted in curvilinear style with a naturalistic manner, while Wari art used the same symbols in a more abstract, rectilinear style with a militaristic style.\n\nTiwanaku sculpture is comprised typically of blocky, column-like figures with huge, flat square eyes, and detailed with shallow relief carving. They are often holding ritual objects, such as the Ponce Stela or the Bennett Monolith. Some have been found holding severed heads, such as the figure on the Akapana, who possibly represents a puma-shaman. These images suggest the culture practiced ritual human beheading. As additional evidence, headless skeletons have been found under the Akapana.\n\nThey also used ceramics and textiles, composed of bright colors and stepped patterns. An important ceramic artifact is the \"qiru\", a drinking cup that was ritually smashed after ceremonies and placed with other goods in burials. Over time, the style of ceramics changed. The earliest ceramics were \"coarsely polished, deeply incised brownware and a burnished polychrome incised ware\". Later the Qeya style became popular during the Tiwanaku III phase, \"Typified by vessels of a soft, light brown ceramic paste\". These ceramics included libation bowls and bulbous-bottom vases.\n\nExamples of textiles are tapestries and tunics. The objects typically depicted herders, effigies, trophy heads, sacrificial victims, and felines. Such small, portable objects of ritual religious meaning were a key to spreading religion and influence from the main site to the satellite centers. They were created in wood, engraved bone, and cloth. They depicted puma and jaguar effigies, incense burners, carved wooden hallucinogenic snuff tablets, and human portrait vessels. Like the Moche, Tiwanaku portraits expressed individual characteristics.\n\n"}
{"id": "24687267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24687267", "title": "Turks in Libya", "text": "Turks in Libya\n\nTurks in Libya, also known as Libyan Turks and Turco-Libyans, (; ; ) are the ethnic Turks who live in Libya. During the Ottoman rule of Libya, the Turks colonized and dominated the political life of the region, as a result, the ethnic mix of Libya changed with the migration of Turks from Anatolia and the evolvement of the \"Kouloughlis\" (also referred to as \"Cologhlis\") who are people of mixed Turkish and Maghrebi blood. There has also been a modern wave of migration since 1975 from Turkey.\n\nWhen the Ottoman Empire conquered Libya in 1551 the Turks began migrating to the region, as a consequence, many Turkish soldiers married Arab women and their children were known as the \"Kouloughlis\" (also referred to as the \"Cologhla\", \"Qulaughli\" and \"Cologhli\"). \n\nBy 1936 the Turkish community formed 5% of Libya's population, numbering about 35,000, of which 30,000 lived along the Tripolitanian coast. \n\nToday there are still Libyans who regard their ethnicity as Turkish, or acknowledge their descendants to the Turkish soldiers who settled in the area during the Ottoman rule. Indeed, many families in Libya can trace their origins through their surnames. It is very common for families to have surnames that belgong to the region of Turkey that their ancestors migrated from; for example, Tokatlı, Eskişehirli, Muğlalı, and İzmirli are very common surnames. \n\nTurkish labour migration has traditionally been to European countries within the context of bilateral agreements. In 2011 there were 25,000 Turkish citizens residing in Libya. \n\nLibyan Turks have experienced persecution during Muammar Gaddafi's regime, as Gaddafi favored pan-Arabism and considered the minorities residing in Libya as a threat for Libya's Arabization process. Turks, among with several minority groups, had been forced to abandon their cultural traditions and enforced to behave and act like Arabs.\n\nKhalifa Haftar's Tobruk Government recently has followed anti-Turkish sentiment and denounced Turkey for interference in Libya, raising the fears of re-persecution of Turkish population.\n\nThere is a significant Turkish community living in the north-west of Libya. For example, many Turks settled in Misrata during the reign of Abdul Hamid II in the nineteenth century. \n\nThe last census which allowed the Turkish minority to declare their ethnicity showed the following: \n\nToday the Turks form two-thirds (est.266,640) of Misrata's 400,000 inhabitants. There is also a thriving Turkish population in Tripoli.\n\nThe Ottoman Turks brought with them the teaching of the Hanafi School of Islam during the Ottoman rule of Libya which still survives among the Turkish descended families today. Examples of Ottoman-Turkish mosques include:\n\nSince 2011 the Türk-Libya İşbirliği (The Turkish-Libyan Cooperation) has been active. By 2015 the Libyan Turks also formed the \"Libya Köroğlu Derneği\" (The Libyan Kouloughlis Association), with the aim of bringing greater awareness of the existence of the Turkish minority and promoting their culture in both Libya and Turkey.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1198712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1198712", "title": "University Avenue (Toronto)", "text": "University Avenue (Toronto)\n\nUniversity Avenue is a major north–south road in Downtown Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Beginning at Front Street West in the south, the thoroughfare heads north to end at College Street just south of Queen's Park. At its north end, the Ontario Legislative Building serves as a prominent terminating vista. Many of Toronto's most important institutions are located along the eight-lane wide street such as Osgoode Hall and other legal institutions, the Four Seasons Centre, major hospitals conducting research and teaching, and landmark office buildings for the commercial sector, notably major financial and insurance industry firms. The portion of University Avenue between Queen Street West and College Street is laid out as a boulevard, with several memorials, statues, gardens, and fountains concentrated in a landscaped median dividing the opposite directions of travel, giving it a ceremonial character.\n\nUniversity Avenue begins at the intersection of Front and York streets near Union Station and heads northwest for a short distance before turning north. At Adelaide Street West, the avenue divides slightly, leaving room for a median of greenery and sculptures between the north and southbound lanes.\n\nThe avenue ends at College Street, where it splits into Queen's Park Crescent East (northbound) and Queen's Park Crescent West (southbound). Between these two roads is Queen's Park, the home of the Ontario Legislative Building. This landmark creates a terminating vista for those looking north along University. The legislature's site was originally home to the main building of the University of Toronto, and this is the origin of the avenue's name. Today, the university surrounds the legislature building.\n\nNorth of Bloor Street, the road continues as Avenue Road.\n\nWhile Yonge Street is the emotional heart of the city and Bay Street the financial hub, University Avenue is Toronto's most ceremonial thoroughfare, with many of the city's most prominent institutions. The boulevard is unusually wide for Canadian cities (except for Winnipeg), as it expands from 6 lanes wide (just past the jog at Front and York streets) to eight lanes wide (just past the divide past Adelaide Street). The speed limit is 50 km/h, reduced from 60 km/h.\n\nThe northernmost part of the street is dominated by a series of hospitals including Toronto General Hospital, Mount Sinai Hospital, the Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, Toronto Rehabilitation Institute, and The Hospital for Sick Children. The concentration of hospitals on this portion of the street has led to it being given the nickname \"Hospital Row\" by locals and the media. The intersection of University and College is also home to the headquarters of Ontario Power Generation.\n\nThe rest of the street is home to a variety of corporate offices and government buildings. Historically, this imposing street has been met with mixed reviews. Noted Canadian author and historian Pierre Berton commented that University Avenue \"was rendered antiseptic by the presence of hospitals and insurance offices...the pristine display of wall-to-wall concrete that ran from Front Street to Queen's Park.\"\n\nUniversity Avenue has matured and mellowed somewhat since Berton's unfavourable observation, though paving is still characterized by poured concrete and asphalt for most sidewalks and roadway. Restaurants now dot the southern end of University Avenue. Recently completed at the intersection of University and Queen Street is the Four Seasons Centre, which is the new home of the Canadian Opera Company and the National Ballet of Canada. Osgoode Hall presents stately architecture and a welcome green space. During the holiday season, festive lights illuminate the trees and shrubs of the boulevard. Unlike most major streets in Toronto, there are no rooftop billboards visible from University Avenue due to a bylaw.\n\nA portion of the University line portion of the Yonge-University-Spadina subway line runs the length of University Avenue.\n\nUniversity Avenue was originally made up of two streets, College Avenue and University Street, and separated by a fence, but it was eventually removed and the streets were merged. The merged street ended at Queen Street until 1931, when it was extended southward to Front Street.\n\nUniversity Avenue features many landmark buildings and monuments. Some of these include (from south to north):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39605803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39605803", "title": "Uzan Group", "text": "Uzan Group\n\nUzan Group was a Turkish conglomerate owned by Cem Uzan. The Group formerly owned (via the Star Media Group) Star TV, which it had founded as the first private broadcaster of the country, Metro FM, and the \"Star\" newspaper it launched in 1999. Other group companies included the Telsim mobile network and Imar Bank. In 2003 the Turkish government seized 219 Group companies to cover $5.7bn of debts arising from bank fraud at Imar.\n\nUzan Group's ÇEAŞ and Kepez companies were seized by the Turkish government in 2003. A Cypriot company controlled by the Uzan family, Libananco, sued the Turkish government for $10bn in damages, but lost the case in front of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes trade panel.\n"}
{"id": "30527262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30527262", "title": "Walung people", "text": "Walung people\n\nThe Walung people (also Walungpa) are the indigenous inhabitants of the region around Olangchung Gola.\n\nThey are descended from Tibetan traders and practice Nyingmapa Buddhism. A large monastery that was built 200 years ago sits on top of the main village of Olangchung Gola. The chief deity at the monastery is Chenrezi (Avalokiteśvara). The Walung people revere the monastery as their shelter from anything untoward. Historically, they would also invite Tibetan monks from Lhasa to provide teaching in this monastery.\n\nThe language spoken by Walung people is Walungge language, a dialect of Central Tibetan language.\n\nThe primary occupation of the Walung people is trade and herding yaks and dzos. Lhosar and Futuk are the main festivals, which the people celebrate with full pomp and show.\n"}
{"id": "39815912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39815912", "title": "Women in Trinidad and Tobago", "text": "Women in Trinidad and Tobago\n\nWomen in Trinidad and Tobago are women who were born in, who live in, or are from Trinidad and Tobago. Depending from which island the women came, they may also be called Trinidadian women or Tobagonian women respectively. Women in Trinidad and Tobago excel in various industries and occupations including micro-enterprise owners, \"lawyers, judges, politicians, civil servants, journalists, and calypsonians.\" Women still dominate the fields of \"domestic service, sales, and some light manufacturing.\"\n\nWomen of Afro-Trinidadian mix commonly become \"heads of households,\" thus with acquired \"autonomy and power.\" By participating in Trinidad and Tobago's version of the Carnival, Trinidadian and Tobagonian women demonstrate their \"assertive sexuality.\" Some of them have also been active in so-called Afro-Christian sects and in running the \"sou-sou informal rotating credit associations.\"\n\nGender roles in Trinidad and Tobago are influenced primarily by legacies of patriarchy and colonialism. Baptiste asserts that historical views of race and colonialism impact Trinidadian culture in such a way that are often excluded from Western feminist studies. \"Caribbean gender theory has to wrangle with the boundedness of patriarchy at the same time as it tussles with the barnacles of colonialism and imperialism.\" Gender performances in Trinidad and Tobago occupy three distinct spaces: physical, social, and cultural. Baptiste argues that the physical, public spaces represent a \"postcolonial essentialist collage\" in which performances are gendered by the socialization of gender roles according to very essentialist views of men and women. Many public spaces display African imagery, primarily from Nigeria and Ghana because these nations are still Trinidad and Tobago's closest political allies and cultural beacons. These social spaces provide an outlet in the face of a country struggling with increasing crime rates targeted toward women.\n\nOn average, from primary to tertiary levels of schooling, girls outperform or have higher enrollment levels than boys in Trinidad and Tobago. This pattern has been observed for the past couple decades or so.\n\n\"Primary education:\" In primary schools, girls show a lower drop-out rate and repeater rate, and score higher than boys on the SEA examination . In 2015, girls constituted of approx. two thirds of the top students in the Second Entrance Assessment (SEA) examination and CAPE. \n\n\"Secondary education:\" In secondary schools, despite the fact that most secondary schools are structured based on a stratified system of prestige, girls consistently outperform boys in within-school and national testing. In particular, girls are more likely to take the examination and across the Caribbean, girls achieve higher CXC results in English, history and social studies .\n\n\"Tertiary education:\" There is a high enrollment rate of females in tertiary learning institutions–about 65 per cent of total students enrolled at UWI, St. Augustine campus in 2009/2010 were female. \n\nWomen generally enjoyed the same legal rights as men, including employment, education, and inheritance rights. No laws or regulations require equal pay for equal work. While equal pay for men and women in public service was the rule rather than the exception, both the government and NGOs noted considerable disparities in pay between men and women in the private sector, particularly in agriculture. \n\nAs of 2016, 60% of Trinidadian women participate in the labour force, compared to 81% participation from the male population. Historically, female labour force participation rates in Trinidad and Tobago are lower than male participation rates. Over the past two decades (1990-2010), this disparity between these rates has been decreasing. Following the recession of the 1980s when the labour force participation rate dipped to 55.6 percent, the rate has hovered around 62 percent over the last decade. The size of the labour force has increased over the years, moving from 480,000 persons in 1987 to 619,000 persons in 2010–an annual average growth rate of 1.1 percent. Even though males continue to be predominant, the share of females in the labour force has steadily increased moving from 31.8 percent in 1980 to 41.4 percent in 2010.\n\nGenerally, women are dominant in the service industry and as clerks and associate professionals. There is some level of equality at the professional level, however men have a greater presence at senior levels. Women whose highest level of education attained was primary were 13% more likely to participate, while those with secondary level attainment were 14% more likely to participate. Women with tertiary level education had a probability of participation of 8%.\n\nTrinidad and Tobago‘s female labour is also lower than some of its (commonly compared to) neighbouring countries. From 2000 to 2009, Barbados and Jamaica‘s rates averaged 65.1 per cent and 57.4 per cent, respectively.\n\nAccording to the 2012 National Gender Policy, despite high levels of education and employment, women are still the primary care-givers in the society with the majority of the responsibility for raising children, performing housework, taking care of the sick, the aging and elderly, and the disabled, and managing many of community-based organizations.\n\nIn 2016, Trinidad and Tobago ranked 91st in the world (out of 114 countries) in wage equality between men and women for similar work. Research shows that there are substantial wage differences between men and women in Trinidad and Tobago. While women account for the largest entry into both the workforce and education, a 2015 study shows that their wages are still less than men. On average, women earn USD$22,656 a year, while for that same period, men earns USD$41,527. In the private sector, it appears that female workers, regardless of their position along the wage distribution, face a similar degree of discrimination. At the aggregate level, there is a significant difference between male and female wages. Investigation showed that the demographics with the highest levels of discrimination were in the age groups 35-44, income levels $3,000-$5,999 and private sector employment vs public sector. As of 2015, the wage gap is found to be larger in the private sector than the public sector, and the gap is larger at the lower end of the wage distribution. In the private sector, at the 10th percentile the gender wage gap is 25.9 percent compared to 12.0 percent at the 90th percentile.\n\nTrinidad and Tobago has ratified several conventions related to labour and workforce standards including the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Conventions including the Tripartite Consultation (International Labour Standards) Convention, 1976 (No. 144), the Industrial Relations Act (1972), the Retrenchment and Severance Payments Act (1985), the Minimum Wage Act (1976), and most recently, the Equal Opportunity Act (2000). In particular, the Equal Opportunity Act (EOA) prohibits an employer or prospective employer from discriminating against an employee or a prospective employee because of their status (race, disability, ethnicity, marital status, religion, sex, or geographical origin). However, currently, Trinidad and Tobago does not have any legislation pertaining to equal pay for work of equal value.\n\nAccording to the National Council of State Administration Secretaries Research Corporation, there are six key factors that influence this wage gap: occupation, human capital, work experience, career interruption, motherhood and industry sector. Even with these in mind, Mahabir & Ramrattan assert that discrimination based on sex is apparent when critically examining similar scenarios affecting both men and women. The greatest disparity comes from the fact that married women or those in common law marriages still earn disproportiante wages compared to men in the same scenario. While Trinidad and Tobago is ranked 50 out of 148 countries by the Gender Inequality Index, the major factors that influence workplace disparities are inherently gendered. This is generally thought to be due to a combination of a strong patriarchal “old boys” network which favors each other regarding employment and wages, and a historical and cultural background that does not place as much value on women’s work as it does men’s.\n\nThe Constitution of Trinidad and Tobago prohibits all forms of discrimination on the grounds of gender.  The Trinidad and Tobago Succession Act was passed by Parliament in 1981 and Legislation on Property Rights was also passed, revising provisions on real property and women’s property rights. As such, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago affirms women’s rights to property ownership. Although there exists no legal restrictions to women’s access to land tenure, Trinidad and Tobago still has a gender disparity of distribution of land ownership, with some studies indicating that only 14% of private land owners are female. It is suggested that this is predominantly male dominated due to the customary regimes like patriarchal inheritance practices.\n\nUnder the Sexual Offences Act, prostitution is illegal in Trinidad and Tobago, and those found guilty of an offence are liable of up to 5 years imprisonment. This includes person that “lives wholly or in part on the earnings of prostitution” and those who are “aiding, abetting or compelling the prostitution”. Authorities continue to monitor, investigate, and prosecute major operators believed to be engaged in soliciting for prostitution.\n\nCohabitation is legal, and common-law relationships can be found to be legally protected under the Cohabitational Relationship Act of 2000. The Act empowers the court to make orders for maintenance for a common-law spouse as well orders in respect of their rights to property provided that the common-law relationship has lasted for at least five years; or there is a child or children of the relationship; or the party has made substantial contributions to the common-law relationship.\n\nUnder the Cohabitational Relationship Act of 2000, after the death of a common-law spouse who has left no valid will, the surviving common-law spouse or cohabitant is entitled to benefit from the estate of deceased once they lived with that person in a common-law relationship for at least five years immediately before the deceased died. The surviving common-law spouse is entitled to benefit from the estate of the deceased in the following ways:\n\nAs of June 2017, the legal age of marriage in Trinidad and Tobago is 18. Prior to 2017, four Acts regulated the age of marriage in Trinidad and Tobago, leading to a number of inconsistencies:\n\nIn May 2016, child marriage was the subject of heated debate after the Inter-Religious Organisation (IRO) suggested that the country’s marriage laws should not be amended, despite allowing girls as young as 12 to get married. In January 2017, the Attorney General Faris Al-Rawi announced a bill to harmonize the country’s marriage laws and raise the legal minimum age of marriage to 18 years old, without exception. On 18 January 2017 this bill passed through the Senate and moved to be debated by members of parliament in the Lower House.. \n\nAccording to the then Attorney General Faris Al-Rawi, in the past 20 years, the country had recorded 3,478 child marriages, and of this figure, a mere 74 were males under the age of 18, meaning that 97% of child marriages were girls. In June 2017, The Miscellaneous Provisions (Marriage) Bill 2016 was passed, setting the legal age of marriage to 18. In addition, the bill provides for a new offence where there is conviction on indictment for solemnising the marriage of persons under the age of 18 years, so marriage officers will be penalised if he/she conducts a marriage on a minor.\n\nDivorce is able to be granted to couples after at least one year of marriage, though there are exceptional circumstances under which the court would entertain a petition within a year of the marriage. Either spouse may file a petition for divorce. Either spouse must either be a permanent resident of Trinidad and Tobago, or must have been a resident for at least one year immediately before the divorce petition is filed. \n\nThere is currently only one “ground” for divorce—that is the marriage has broken down irretrievably. Generally, to satisfy the court that the marriage is beyond repair, at least one of five circumstances must be proven to exist in the relationship: adultery, irreconcilable behaviour, desertion of a continuous period of at least two years immediately before the petition is filed; separation of a continuous period of at least two years immediately before the petition is filed and your spouse agrees to get a divorce; and separation of a continuous period of at least two years immediately before the petition is filed. Spousal agreement is not necessary in this final instance.\n\nResearch from the University of the West Indies Cave Hill Campus indicated that in contested custody cases, fathers were granted custody roughly 50% of the time. It was found that the maintenance of the status quo was an important consideration as whoever had the children, kept them, even when the mother left because of violence. Gender stereotyping was evident; the mother's moral conduct falling short of an acceptable standard -- which was usually higher than for fathers-- seemed to influence the courts. In awarding fathers custody, courts invariably found a mother figure-- a sister, mother, wife or girlfriend of the paternal figure -- to assist with childcare. \n\nCurrently, the only parental leave supported by the government is maternity leave, as stipulated under The Maternity Protection Act, 1998 of Trinidad and Tobago. To qualify for parental leave, an employee must be employed full-time for at least 12 months. An employee is entitled to thirteen weeks maternity leave and may proceed on such leave six weeks prior to the probable date of confinement, i.e. the expected due date. During the period of maternity leave, an employee is entitled to receive pay from their employer to an amount equivalent to one month's leave with full pay and two months' leave with half pay.\n\nIn May 2012, while the Maternity Protection Amendment Bill was in the Senate, there was a strong call for paternity leave from Senators on all sides of the political divide, citing the importance of father-child bonds made during early child development, single-father provisions. The bill also raised considerations for parental leave for people who adopt children, as well as issues regarding sexism in the workplace, with allegations of women being demoted or fired once they returned from maternity leave. The bill sought to increase maternity leave from 13 weeks to 14 weeks.\n\nTrinidad and Tobago is a parliamentary democracy governed by a prime minister and a bicameral legislature. Anyone over the age of 18 is eligible to vote. Roughly 31% of parliament are female and 10% of ministerials position are held by women. \n\nIn 2010, Kamla Persad-Bissessar became the first woman in history to become the Prime Minister, Leader of the Opposition, and Attorney General of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. She was born in April 1952 and later went on to attend University of the West Indies, Norwood Technical College (England,) and the Hugh Wooding Law School. She was awarded a B.A. (Hons.), a Diploma in Education, a B.A. of Laws (Hons.) and a Legal Education Certificate. In 2006 she obtained an Executive Masters in Business Administration (EMBA) from the Arthur Lok Jack Graduate School of Business, Trinidad. Persad-Bissessar went on to teach; after six years of lecturing she moved on to become a full-time Attorney-at-Law and later in 1987 she entered political scene. Her positions in the political scene are many and range from the years 1987-2016. The positions that she has served include alderman for St. Patrick County Council, Member of Parliament for Siparia, serving as Attorney General, Minister of Legal Affairs and Minister of Education. In 2006 she was appointed Leader of the Opposition becoming the first woman to hold that position from Trinidad and Tobago and as of August 2017, continues to serve in this capacity. She served as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago from 2010 to 2015.\n\nContraception is legal in Trinidad and Tobago, and varying contraception methods for both men and women are widely available throughout the country either through the government-run clinics under the Ministry of Health, organisations such as the Family Planning Association of Trinidad and Tobago and private medical practitioners.\n\nUnder the Offences Against the Person Act, abortion in Trinidad and Tobago is illegal except in case of threat to the life or health of the pregnant woman. The punishment for a woman who has an abortion is four years in prison and the punishment for a doctor or other person who performs the procedure is the same. Aiding in the process of finding someone to perform an abortion or other preliminary steps is also illegal and subject to a two-year prison sentence. Although statistics on abortion in Trinidad and Tobago are not accurate, the practice is believed to be widespread. As for most of its Caribbean neighbours, unsafe abortion is the country’s leading cause of maternal mortality, and a major cause of maternal hospital admissions.\n\nHowever, activism to introduce public policy and legislation that effectively address this aspect of women's reproductive rights and health is generally met with public outcry. The Roman Catholic Church has traditionally led the anti-choice movement, reacting forcefully and quickly to all calls for abortion law reform. The church wields considerable clout in Trinidad and Tobago. It is the largest denomination with nominal members making up 29% of the population.7Central Statistical Office, Trinidad and Tobago. Population and Vital Statistics Report. 1999 [Google Scholar] They are today bolstered by a number of other church-based anti-abortion groups, some from other Christian religions. While leaders of the Hindu and Muslim faiths have expressed opposition to abortion, several have noted grounds on which exceptions may be made, including threat to the mother's life, incest and rape.\n\nA 2007 national survey found that although almost half of respondents had an unfavourable perception of abortion, more than half of them were in favour of broadening the legal grounds for accessing terminations. Incest, rape and danger to a woman's life were cited as the most significant circumstances under which abortions should be permitted. The vast majority of respondents agreed that voting on abortion law reform by members of the legislature should not be based on personal beliefs. Notably, 74% of Catholic respondents were in favour of liberalising the abortion law. Also significant is that the proportion of respondents expressing an anti-choice point of view rose with age.\n\nAs of May 2017, under the Children’s Act, the age of consent for sexual intercourse in Trinidad and Tobago is 18. Prior to May 2017, a child was defined as persons under the age of 16 years and the Sexual Offences Act listed various offences for engaging in activities with persons under 16. Anyone who sexually touches a child under 16 can be liable, on summary conviction, to a fine of $50,000 and to imprisonment for ten years; or (b) on conviction on indictment to imprisonment for 20 years. \n\nAs a result, Trinidad And Tobago had a close-in-age exemption. \"A close in age exemption, commonly known as 'Romeo and Juliet law' in the United States, is a law designed to prevent the prosecution of underage couples who engage in consensual sex when both participants are significantly close in age to each other, and one or both are below the age of consent. Depending on the situation, the Trinidad And Tobago close-in-age exemption may have completely exempted qualifying close-in-age couples from the age of consent law, or merely provided a legal defence that could have been used in the event of prosecution\". The change in the age of consent from 16 to 18 created a need for the government to re-examine and change the laws related to the various Marriage Acts of the country.\n\nRape, including spousal rape, is illegal and punishable by up to life imprisonment, but the courts often hand down considerably shorter sentences. The government and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) report that many incidents of rape and other sexual crimes were unreported, partly due to perceived insensitivity on the part of the police. One group, the Rape Crisis Society, stated that there were 229 new cases of rape reported during the year, in addition to 615 continuing investigations. Over 60 percent of its clients were between 12 and 26 years of age.\n\nMany community leaders asserted that abuse of women, particularly in the form of domestic violence, continued to be a significant problem. The law provides for protection orders separating perpetrators of domestic violence, including abusive spouses, from their victims, as well as for penalties that include fines and imprisonment. While reliable national statistics were not available, women's groups estimated that from 20 to 25 percent of all women suffered abuse. Citing a 10 percent increase in the number of domestic violence cases filed in the magistrate's court during the previous year's law term, outgoing Chief Justice Sharma asserted that domestic abuse was a detriment to the country's peace and security. In January the Attorney General's Office provided a domestic violence manual to law enforcement officials. NGOs charged that police were often lax in enforcing the law. The Division of Gender Affairs (DGA) in the Ministry of Community Development, Culture, and Gender Affairs operated a 24-hour hotline for victims of rape, spousal abuse, and other violence against women, referring callers to eight shelters for battered women, a rape crisis center, counseling services, support groups, and other assistance.\n\nAlthough related statutes could be used to prosecute perpetrators of sexual harassment, and some trade unions incorporated anti-harassment provisions in their contracts, no laws specifically prohibit sexual harassment. Furthermore, both the government and NGOs suspect that many incidents of sexual harassment go unreported.\n\nIn Trinidad and Tobago, women and girls experience domestic violence, incest, rape and other forms of sexual violence and abuse to a degree that is staggering and almost common-place. Domestic violence-related homicide are second only to gang murders as the leading non-medical-related cause of death for women. In 2010, 940 reports of domestic violence were made to the Police, 68.2% of which were for “assault by beating”. That same year, the Police received 215 reports of rape, 22 reports of incest, 158 reports of grievous sexual assaults, and 278 reports of sex with minor females 14-16 years of age (Crime and Problem Analysis Branch, TTPS). The degree of sexual assault and harassment suspected to be higher as many incidents of gender-based violence are not reported.\n\nNear the end of November 2016, the hashtag “#LifeInLeggings” began circulating on Caribbean social media. Within the thread were countless tales of the sexual harassment and sexual and domestic violence that women in the Caribbean experience on a daily basis; from casual everyday street harassment, workplace sexual harassment, to explicit accounts of sexual abuse of girls, victim-shaming and protection of male abusers through a conspiracy of silence. The anecdotes reveal that even though many T&T/Caribbean women may live independently, and may have a good education and a job, in the transactions of daily living they must still deal with pervasive sexism, gender prejudice entrenched deep within the culture, and active ill treatment from many men. Such men may routinely demean women, see women as inferior, and feel they have the right to control them, use them or abuse them. The heartfelt nature of the negative experiences shared with the hashtag triggered much heated public discussions in reaction to issues raised. \n\nAs far as cultural spaces are produced, Trinidad and Tobago has a large interconnected Muslim population that showcases the duality of public/private spaces. Scholars point to the contrast in which Muslim women within the country perform gender in order to express self-empowerment. Many of these women do not identify as feminist due to the conflicting nature of Western feminism in relation to the historic patriarchal influence of Islam. Baptiste and other scholars point to expressions of piety from Muslim women to expose the monolithic narrative that all Muslim women--even those living within the Western world-- experience oppression due to Islam. In fact, Baptiste argues that \"an uncritical adoption of hegemonic feminist theory leads to the reproduction of somatic norms\" within the culture. Public education within Muslim communities in Trinidadian culture does not require Islamic schools to adhere to any state curriculum; these cultural spaces operate in a unique, interconnected space. Here women can remain devout in their Islamic faith while simultaneously maintaining their social membership to a larger Trinidadian culture. Baptiste explores how Muslim women in Trinidad and Tobago \"possess as much or as little spatial autonomy as any other woman in Trinidad. If there are constraints on the woman’s mobility, it is more gender than religiosity.\"\n\nIn an analysis of music and its influence in Trinidad and Tobago, Hope Munro Smith investigated the nuances of calypso music with respect to gender performance. She discovered that representation in calypso music was gendered by a large margin that favored male performers over females. Smith presents the historical context of public ordinances that forced the female influences on the culture underground. This resulted in public performances of calypso being co-opted by \"middle-class businessmen who charged a set admission price.\" Public performances by women were seen as uncivilized and Smith asserts social workers saw it as their duty to subdue the performances of these lower class women. While male calypso performers were revered, the female performers were mocked and given names not unlike Jezebel that roused suspicion of the female's character. Calypso scholars point to the fact that the genre \"became increasingly and almost exclusively a forum for the fiercely competing [male] egos\" \n\nBy the end of the twentieth century, female performers in Trinidad and Tobago had been socialized to be inferior and ultimately invisible. Smith believes they had all but disappeared entirely. This was a means of social control over women who saw the male performers of calypso as idea caricatures of men; \"the ultimate sweet man\" who has sex with anyone woman he wants because he is so desirable. Possession of women is seen as the ultimate reward both in bed and in society. Smith presents this \"I'll do what the hell I like\" as an attitude that is gendered to favour males and sexist against females. The performances are socialized in such a way that woman will fawn over male singers and present him with sexual favors and anything else that will keep him around. \n\nSmith's final assessment is that \"music in Trinidadian context takes a very significant place alongside larger political projects and concerns.\" The performances of male dominate the culture creating a narrative that man's rightful place is to dominate this and other arenas. Just like in calypso music, man's domination of women is a cultural experience that socially controls woman's position in bed, in family, and ultimately within Trinidadian society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58835269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58835269", "title": "Yakima Valley Anti-Filipino Riot", "text": "Yakima Valley Anti-Filipino Riot\n\nThe Yakima Valley Anti-Filipino Riot was an Anti-Filipino riot that took place from November 8-11, 1927 in the Yakima Valley of Washington. In the late 1920's anti-Asian sentiment in the US grew, culminating in the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1924. Unlike other Asian groups at the time, Filipinos were permitted in the country as a result of the US Colonization of the Philippines, and although they were legal residents, they still faced a great deal of discrimination. Many of these workers found jobs in Eastern Washington on the numerous farms in the area. At the same time the Ku Klux Klan had been exploiting this existing anti-Asian sentiment with the residents of the valley, claiming to protect white women from the threat of interracial dating, and local men from the source of cheap labor. In November of 1927 this culminated in a series of intimidation and threats by the KKK in the valley. Beginning the night of November 8th, a mob gathered at a local boarding house owned by an interracial couple, demanding all Filipino boarders leave town. Throughout the week Filipino workers were threatened with death if they did not leave the valley. Most were forced onto trains out of town, or simply left on foot. Those who remained were put into the county jail for their own protection. Overall hundreds of Filipinos were forced out of the valley as a result of the riot, which was finally ended November 11th. In the aftermath of the incident, the local leaders were arrested and put on trial, eventually being found guilty by an all white jury and sentenced to 10 days in jail.\n\n"}
{"id": "13349490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13349490", "title": "Zaghawa language", "text": "Zaghawa language\n\nZaghawa is a Saharan language spoken by the Zaghawa people of east-central Chad (in the Sahel) and northwestern Sudan (Darfur). The people who speak this language call it Beria, from \"Beri\", the endonym of the Zaghawa people, and \"a\", Zaghawa for \"mouth\". It has been estimated that there are between 75,000 and 350,000 Zaghawa speakers, who primarily live in Chad and the Darfur region of Sudan.\n\nZaghawa has a nine-vowel system with advanced-tongue-root vowel harmony. The vowels fall into two sets:\nwith the vowels of affixes depending on the set of vowels in the stem, and with /a/ functioning in both sets. There is some variation among dialects as to the presence of a tenth vowel, /ə/, which in some dialects functions as the +ATR counterpart of /a/. Diphthongs are and .\n\nConsonants are simple:\nOsman also includes /ʒ ħ/ in this list. /ʃ/ occurs primarily in the Sudanese dialect as a variant of /s/ appearing before /i/. The phonemic status of the rhotics are unclear: Osman states that may be exchanged without any change in meaning, yet maintains that they are distinct phonemes. Of the obstruents, /p/ may not occur word-initially, and only may occur word-finally, with /b/ in final position in some dialects. may not occur word-initially, and only appear in the middle of words, as in 'bird'.\n\nThere are five tones, \"high, mid, low, rising, falling,\" all of which may occur on simple vowels, for example in \"I watered\", \"I said\", \"right (direction)\". Tone distinguishes words, but also has grammatical functions; for example, the plural of many nouns is formed by changing the tone of the final syllable from low to high, and the perfective aspect of many verbs is similarly formed by changing the tone of the final syllable from low to high.\n\nWords tend to be short, often CV and CVCV. The most complex syllables are CVC and CRV, where \"R\" is either of the two rhotics.\n\nIn the 1950s, a Zaghawa schoolteacher named Adam Tajir created an alphabet for the Zaghawa language that was based on the clan identification marks (brands). Sometimes known as the camel alphabet, he based the phoneme choice on the Arabic language rather than on Zaghawa. Also, some of the marks were longer than others, which made it harder to use it as a computer font.\n\nIn 2000, a Beri veterinarian named Siddick Adam Issa prepared an improved version of the alphabet which is named Beria Giray Erfe (Beria Writing Marks). In 2007, this system of writing was turned into a computer font by Seonil Yun in cooperation with SIL International and the Mission Protestante Franco-Suisse au Tchad.\n\nThere is also an Arabic script alphabet under development, based on the Tijani system of writing African languages in the 13th century.\n\n\n"}
