{"id": "39771439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39771439", "title": "2009 Brazilian girl abortion case", "text": "2009 Brazilian girl abortion case\n\nIn 2009, a nine-year-old Brazilian girl became pregnant with twins. The girl's mother obtained an abortion for the girl and, afterward, Archbishop José Sobrinho said that automatic excommunication applied to the girl's mother and to the doctors who performed the abortion, prompting national and international criticism. In response, the National Conference of Bishops of Brazil declared that no one was excommunicated in the case, and in an article published on \"L'Osservatore Romano\" a Vatican bioethicist rebuked the archbishop for his public statement.\n\nAbortion is legal under Brazilian law in cases of pregnancies resulting from rape or in which giving birth would endanger the mother's life.\nThe Code of Canon Law says that automatic excommunication is imposed on \"a person who procures a completed abortion\" (Canon 1398), but not if, for instance, the act was done \"by a person who was coerced by grave fear, even if only relatively grave, or due to necessity or grave inconvenience unless the act is intrinsically evil or tends to the harm of souls\".\n\nDoctors in Recife performed an abortion on a nine-year-old girl on 4 March. They judged her life to be at risk because of her age and because she was pregnant with twins and weighed 80 pounds. According to Fatima Maia, the director of the hospital CISAM, if the pregnancy continued, the child could suffer a ruptured uterus and hemorrhage, and she also ran the risk of diabetes, hypertension, eclampsia and lifelong sterility. She had allegedly been raped by her stepfather.\n\nAs well as expressly denying that he had excommunicated anyone, but had only said that excommunication had been automatically incurred, Sobrinho said that \"the law of God is higher than any human laws. When a human law—that is, a law enacted by human legislators—is against the law of God, that law has no value. The adults who approved, who carried out this abortion have incurred excommunication.\" In an interview, he added: \"They took the life of an innocent. Abortion is much more serious than killing an adult. An adult may or may not be an innocent, but an unborn child is most definitely innocent. Taking that life cannot be ignored.\" Sobrinho explained that the rapist stepfather was not excommunicated because abortion, the taking of an innocent life, is even worse than rape. The girl was not excommunicated, because minors are exempt from excommunication. Archbishop Sobrinho and his diocese also tried to prevent the abortion by approaching the child's parents, the State Governor and the hospital where she was first admitted, after which it put off the abortion indefinitely. His lawyers then issued legal threats against the second hospital where the abortion finally took place. \n\nPresident Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, a Catholic, criticized what he called the \"conservative attitude\" of the Archbishop in a case where the doctors were trying to save the girl's life, adding: \"In this case, the medical profession was more right than the Church.\" \n\nHealth Minister José Gomes Temporão described what he called the Catholic Church's position as \"extreme, radical and inadequate\". Temporão, who had frequently clashed with the Church on questions such as abortion and state distribution of free condoms, called on the participants in a national convention on women's health to acknowledge the \"brilliant\" work done by the medical team who performed the abortion.\n\nThe National Conference of Bishops of Brazil repudiated Sobrinho's initiative. At a press conference, Bishop Dimas Lara Barbosa, Secretary General of the Conference, said that the girl's mother was not excommunicated, since she had acted under pressure to save her daughter's life, and that there were no grounds to declare the doctors excommunicated, because (automatic) excommunication depended on each one's degree of awareness and only those who were \"aware and contumacious\" were excommunicated. At the press conference, a document on excommunication written by canonist Enrique Pérez Pujol, who stressed that the penalty should not be applied amid a polemic, was distributed to journalists.\n\nArchbishop Geraldo Lyrio Rocha, President of the Conference, avoided answering a question whether Sobrinho had acted hastily in saying that automatic excommunication had occurred. He said that \"at no time did he want to hurt someone who was already hurting, but only wished to draw attention to the gravity of the deed of abortion in the face of a certain permissiveness regarding the life of the unborn\". He said that Sobrinho had excommunicated no one, but had pointed out that abortion entails the possibility of excommunication, which is a measure intended to make not only an individual but the whole Church community take note of the gravity of the deed. As for the rapist, he said that a rapist \"is outside of communion\" and \"in grave mortal sin\", even though rape is not listed among the crimes that give rise to automatic excommunication. He said: \"Rape is something so repugnant that the Church does not need to call attention to it. It is punished by the state justice system, which does not punish abortion so much.\" He said that talk of excommunication seemed to have made people forget the crime of the rapist, who needed to be punished.\n\nThe Holy See's non-official newspaper, \"L'Osservatore Romano\", published a front-page article on 15 March by Archbishop Rino Fisichella, President of the Pontifical Academy for Life, that was highly critical of Sobrinho's action. Fisichella said that excommunication was automatic, so that focusing on it rather than on helping and supporting the child victim showed a lack of compassion that detracted from the credibility of the Church's anti-abortion teaching. After reiterating the church's condemnation of abortion, he wrote that the moral situation was difficult because of the girl's young age and the risk to her life and praised those who \"allowed [her] to live and will help [her] to recover hope and trust\". He wrote: \"The conscience of the physician finds itself alone when forced to decide the best thing to do. A choice like that of having to save a life, knowing that one puts a second at serious risk, never comes easily.\"\n\nThe Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith responded to press coverage of Fisichella's article calling it manipulation and exploitation. It issued a clarification that the article did not signal a change of doctrine and said that \"the Church's teaching on procured abortion has not changed, nor can it change\". The clergy of the Archdiocese of Olinda and Recife took issue with Fisichella, stating that the local Church had been supportive of the girl and her mother. The Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith ruled that Sobrinho had acted \"with all pastoral solicitude\". The members of the Academy gave Fisichella a vote of no confidence because of his article, and he was reassigned in the next year to the Pontifical Council for Promoting the New Evangelization.\n\nCardinal Giovanni Battista Re, Prefect of the Congregation for Bishops and President of the Pontifical Commission for Latin America, deplored what he called an attack on the Church in Brazil: \"It is a sad case, but the real problem is that the twins conceived were two innocent persons, who had the right to live and could not be eliminated. Life must always be protected. The attack on the Brazilian church is unjustified.\" He added that excommunication of those who performed the abortion was just.\n\nBishop Jean-Michel di Falco of Gap, France, criticized what he saw as the un-Christlike nature of Sobrinho's statement. He said that bishops should act as pastors rather than executioners. As had the National Conference of Bishops of Brazil, he denied the applicability of Canon 1398 of the Code of Canon Law to the girl's mother, because such an automatic excommunication does not apply to someone who acts out of grave fear.\n\nOn 9 March 2009, Health Minister Temporão interrupted the opening ceremony of a national medical convention on women's health in Brasília in order to compliment Dr. Olímpio Moraes, one of the doctors who carried out the abortion and who was in attendance. Participants gave Moraes a standing ovation.\n\nMoraes expressed gratitude to Sobrinho for the excommunication, which, he said, had drawn attention to Brazil's restrictive abortion laws. Another of the doctors involved said that he will continue attending Mass, \"praying, conversing with God, and asking him to illuminate me and my colleagues in our medical team to help us take care of people in similar cases.\"\n\nThe United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, in its January 2014 assessment of the Holy See's compliance with the U.N. Convention on the Rights of the Child, cited this Brazil case. It \"urge[d] the Holy See to review its position on abortion which places obvious risks on the life and health of pregnant girls and to amend Canon 1398 relating to abortion with a view to identifying circumstances under which access to abortion services can be permitted.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "50376988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50376988", "title": "Anaerobic membrane bioreactor", "text": "Anaerobic membrane bioreactor\n\nAnaerobic membrane bioreactor or AnMBR is the name of a technology utilized in wastewater treatment. AnMBR works by using a membrane bioreactor (MBR). The sewage is filtered and separated leaving the effluent and sludge apart. This sludge is treated anaerobically by mesophilic bacteria which release methane as a byproduct. The biogas can later be combusted to generate heat or electricity. AnMBR is considered to be a sustainable alternative for sewage treatment because the energy that can be generated by the methane combustion can exceed the energy required for maintaining the process.\n"}
{"id": "54367390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54367390", "title": "Andrew Buchanan (surgeon)", "text": "Andrew Buchanan (surgeon)\n\nAndrew Buchanan (10 December 1798 – 1882) was a Scottish surgeon and academic. He served as Regius Professor of the Institutes of Medicine at the University of Glasgow from 1839 to 1876. He practised as a surgeon at the Glasgow Royal Infirmary 1835 to 1862. He was President of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow from 1879 to 1880. He founded the \"Glasgow Medical Journal\" in 1928, and became its joint-editor.\n"}
{"id": "18638007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18638007", "title": "Antinutrient", "text": "Antinutrient\n\nAntinutrients are natural or synthetic compounds that interfere with the absorption of nutrients. Nutrition studies focus on these antinutrients commonly found in food sources and beverages.\n\nPhytic acid has a strong binding affinity to minerals such as calcium, magnesium, iron, copper, and zinc. This results in precipitation, making the minerals unavailable for absorption in the intestines. Phytic acids are common in the hulls of nuts, seeds and grains and of great importance in agriculture animal nutrition and eutrophication wise due to the mineral chelation and bound phosphates released in to the environment. Without the need to use phytate (but also nutrient) reducing milling, the amount of phytic acid is commonly reduced in animal feeds by adding histidine acid phosphate type of phytases to them.\n\nProtease inhibitors are substances that inhibit the actions of trypsin, pepsin and other proteases in the gut, preventing the digestion and subsequent absorption of protein. For example, Bowman–Birk trypsin inhibitor is found in soybeans.\n\nLipase inhibitors interfere with enzymes, such as human pancreatic lipase, that catalyze the hydrolysis of some lipids, including fats. For example, the anti-obesity drug orlistat causes a percentage of fat to pass through the digestive tract undigested.\n\nAmylase inhibitors prevent the action of enzymes that break the glycosidic bonds of starches and other complex carbohydrates, preventing the release of simple sugars and absorption by the body. Amylase inhibitors, like lipase inhibitors, have been used as a diet aid and obesity treatment. Amylase inhibitors are present in many types of beans; commercially available amylase inhibitors are extracted from white kidney beans.\n\nOxalic acid and oxalates are present in many plants and in significant amounts particularly in rhubarb, tea, spinach, parsley and purslane. Oxalates bind to calcium and prevent its absorption in the human body.\n\nGlucosinolates prevent the uptake of iodine, affecting the function of the thyroid and thus are considered goitrogens. They are found in plants such as broccoli, brussel sprouts, cabbage, mustard greens, radishes and cauliflower.\n\nExcessive intake of required nutrients can also result in them having an anti-nutrient action. Excessive intake of dietary fiber can reduce the transit time through the intestines to such a degree that other nutrients cannot be absorbed. However, this effect is often not seen in practice and reduction of absorbed minerals can be attributed mainly to the phytic acids in fibrous food. Foods high in calcium eaten simultaneously with foods containing iron can decrease the absorption of iron via an unclear mechanism involving iron transport protein hDMT1, which calcium can inhibit.\n\nSome proteins can also be antinutrients, such as the trypsin inhibitors and lectins found in legumes. These enzyme inhibitors interfere with digestion. Avidin is an antinutrient found in active form in raw egg whites. It binds very tightly to biotin (vitamin B7) and can cause deficiency of B7 in animals and, in extreme cases, in humans.\n\nWidespread form of antinutrients are the flavonoids, which are a group of polyphenolic compounds that include tannins. These compounds chelate metals such as iron and zinc and reduce the absorption of these nutrients, but they also inhibit digestive enzymes and may also precipitate proteins.\n\nSaponins in plants may serve as anti-feedants and can be classified as antinutrients.\n\nAntinutrients are found at some level in almost all foods for a variety of reasons. However, their levels are reduced in modern crops, probably as an outcome of the process of domestication. The possibility now exists to eliminate antinutrients entirely using genetic engineering; but, since these compounds may also have beneficial effects, such genetic modifications could make the foods more nutritious but not improve people's health.\n\nMany traditional methods of food preparation such as fermentation, cooking, and malting increase the nutritive quality of plant foods through reducing certain antinutrients such as phytic acid, polyphenols, and oxalic acid. Such processing methods are widely used in societies where cereals and legumes form a major part of the diet. An important example of such processing is the fermentation of cassava to produce cassava flour: this fermentation reduces the levels of both toxins and antinutrients in the tuber.\n\n"}
{"id": "47463389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47463389", "title": "Aqueduct of Nottolini, Lucca", "text": "Aqueduct of Nottolini, Lucca\n\nThe Aqueduct of Nottolini is a prominent Neoclassical architectural landmark near the city of Lucca, region of Tuscany, Italy. The 19th-century structure brought water to Lucca from the mountains south of the city through a stone channel supported by more than 400 arches, stretching for over 3 kilometres. It is now interrupted by the east-west autostrada A11 from Florence to Pisa. \n\nWhile the arches of the aqueduct are often confused as being those of an ancient Roman aqueduct, construction of the aqueduct was begun in 1823 by the architect Lorenzo Nottolini, under the rule of Maria Luisa of Spain, Duchess of Lucca, and continued until 1851. In the slopes of Monte di Vorno, a number of springs were conveyed through rocky channels to a domed circular stone temple-cistern () located near San Quirico in the frazione of Guamo.\nThe water was then conveyed northward through covered stone conduits to the temple-tank of San Concordio (), just outside the fortified walls of Lucca. The arches were mainly built with brick.\n\nFrom the San Concordio tank, potable water was led by metal pipes into fountains in the city, starting with the circular fountain in Piazza Antelminelli next to Lucca Cathedral.\n\nWhen inaugurated, the flow of water was governed completely by gravity. The final iron conduits allowed for expansion and contraction of the metal. The interruption of the aqueduct occurred when the autostrada was constructed by Benito Mussolini's government in 1928–1932.\n"}
{"id": "25200603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25200603", "title": "Automatic Generic Substitution", "text": "Automatic Generic Substitution\n\nAutomatic Generic Substitution is a proposal by the Department of Health (DH) whereby in January 2010 pharmacists could be obliged to substitute a generic version (a version of the drug with the same active ingredient) of a medication even if the prescriber had written the prescription for a specific brand, as part of a new deal on drug pricing.\n\nThis is different from generic prescribing. In most cases, receiving a generic medicine is fully appropriate and effective for patient treatment and should continue. Indeed, generic prescribing already accounts for 83% of all prescriptions in the UK.\n\nThe DH is conducting a public formal consultation on the arrangements for the implementation of Automatic Generic Substitution. The consultation document can be found here\n\nCurrently, Automatic Generic Substitution is not permitted under UK law, except in an emergency or under strict hospital control.\n\nUnder current dispensing rules, the prescriber writes a prescription for a branded or generic medicine, which is dispensed by a pharmacist.\n\nUnder the proposed pharmacy dispensing rules, if Automatic Generic Substitution is introduced, the pharmacist may dispense either the prescribed product, or they may replace it with a generic or another brand without being required to inform the patient or healthcare professional.\n\nIt has been indicated by the DH that a prescriber will be able to tick a \"do not substitute\" box to prevent a proprietary medicine being replaced with a generic alternative. A group of people drawn from academia, medicine and patient groups has reported that it may not be adequate to safeguard patients. They state an example of when patients request a repeat prescription that may not be written by their doctor.\n\nGeneric medicines have the same active ingredient as the branded medicine, but are not always identical, which could affect some patients. The amount of drug that finally reaches the site of action is known as the bioavailability, directly impacting on the effectiveness and tolerability of a drug.\n\nFor a generic medicine to be considered bioequivalent, the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) requires that the bioavailability lies between 80% and 125% of the original branded medicine.\n\nPatients can be switched between different generic medicines, which can mean that they might receive a generic medicine with effectively 25% more active ingredient than the branded medicine on one occasion and one with effectively 20% less active ingredient on the next.\n\nGeneric medicines often have different sizes, shapes, colours and packaging to each other, and to the branded medicine. Switching between medications has been shown to significantly reduce adherence to treatment. Poor adherence is known to be associated with worse outcomes and increased costs for a variety of conditions.\n\nThese problems are exacerbated in elderly patients, who are more likely to be taking multiple medications.\n\nIt is estimated that £800 million worth of drugs is wasted annually in primary care. A report from a group of people drawn from academia, medicine and patient groups suggests this could increase further with a reduction in patient adherence due to Automatic Generic Substitution.\n\nUnder Automatic Generic Substitution, a patient could receive a different medication, with a different appearance and dosage instructions, on each visit to the pharmacy.\n\nThere are many cases where generic prescribing is fully appropriate and vital to containing costs. Generic prescribing in the UK is currently at 83%. The Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry\n\nThe DH is proposing three options for introducing generic substitution:\n\nThe DH favours Option 3; Introduction of dispensing flexibility but limiting the scheme in such a way that the arrangements only apply to a selected group of products on a select list\n\nThe initial inclusion list for Option 3 can be found here\n\nIf Option 3 is adopted, the list can be \"revised\" by DH without any further consultation and may be revised up to four times per year.\n\nA group of people drawn from academia, medicine and patient groups has raised concerns in a report, ‘Automatic Generic Substitution – Clinical Implications for Patients’ that any substitution could be detrimental to the patient. It is known that many medicines have the potential to interact with each other. Medicines on the inclusion list could be substituted for a different version and interact differently with a patient’s established medicine.\n\nThis could be a particular issue for the elderly, who often have multiple conditions and receive multiple medications. A study of patients registered with 201 UK general practices showed that patients aged 65–69 years received repeat prescriptions for an average of 5.9 medications in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "25432258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25432258", "title": "Collagen gel contraction assay", "text": "Collagen gel contraction assay\n\nThe collagen gel contraction assay is a type of wound contraction. It is performed using the dermal equivalent model, which consists of dermal fibroblasts seeded into a collagen gel.\n"}
{"id": "34053897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34053897", "title": "Colony picker", "text": "Colony picker\n\nA colony picker is an instrument used to automatically identify microbial colonies growing on a solid media, pick them and duplicate them either onto solid or liquid media. It is used in research laboratories as well as in industrial environments such as food testing and in microbiological cultures.\n\nIn food safety and in clinical diagnosis colony picking is used to isolate individual colonies for identification. Colony pickers automate this procedure, saving costs and personnel and reducing human error. In the drug discovery process they are used for screening purposes by picking thousands of microbial colonies and transferring them for further testing.\nOther uses include cloning procedures and DNA sequencing.\n\nColony pickers are sold either as stand-alone instruments or as add-ons to liquid handling robots, using the robot as the actuator and adding a camera and image analysis capabilities. This strategy lowers the price of the system considerably and adds reusability as the robot can still be used for other purposes.\n"}
{"id": "1286863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1286863", "title": "Comfort food", "text": "Comfort food\n\nComfort food is food that provides a nostalgic or sentimental value to someone, and may be characterized by its high caloric nature, high carbohydrate level, or simple preparation. The nostalgia may be specific to an individual, or it may apply to a specific culture.\n\nThe term \"comfort food\" has been traced back at least to 1966, when the \"Palm Beach Post\" used it in a story: \"Adults, when under severe emotional stress, turn to what could be called ‘comfort food’—food associated with the security of childhood, like mother’s poached egg or famous chicken soup.\" They are believed to be a great coping mechanism for rapidly soothing negative feelings.\n\nConsuming energy-dense, high calorie, high in fat or salt, or sweet food; such as ice cream, chocolate or french fries, could trigger the reward system in human's brain, which give a distinctive pleasure or temporarily feeling better. Comfort foods may be consumed to reduce stress and feel better. Regarding the psychological aspects of food addiction that led to the unhealthy eating habits, people often use comfort food to treat themselves. Those with negative emotions tend to eat unhealthy food in an effort to experience the instant gratification which resulted in good feeling — although only short-lived.\n\nOne study divided college-students' comfort-food identifications into four categories (nostalgic foods, indulgence foods, convenience foods, and physical comfort foods) with a special emphasis on the deliberate selection of particular foods to modify mood or effect, and indications that the medical-therapeutic use of particular foods may ultimately be a matter of mood-alteration.\n\nThe identification of particular items as comfort food may be idiosyncratic, though patterns are detectable. In one study of American preferences, \"males preferred warm, hearty, meal-related comfort foods (such as steak, casseroles, and soup) while females instead preferred comfort foods that were more snack related (such as chocolate and ice cream). In addition, younger people preferred more snack-related comfort foods compared to those over 55 years of age.\" The study also revealed strong connections between consumption of comfort foods and feelings of guilt. An article, \"The Myth of Comfort Food\" asserted that men tend to choose these types of savory comfort foods because they remind them of being \"pampered\" or spoiled, while women choose snack-related foods because they are associated with low amounts of work and less \"cleanup.\" It also suggested that women are more likely to reach for unhealthier foods in times of stress due to more weight-conscious mindsets.\n\nComfort food consumption has been seen as a response to emotional stress and, consequently, as a key contributor to the epidemic of obesity in the United States. The provocation of specific hormonal responses leading selectively to increases in abdominal fat is seen as a form of self-medication.\n\nFurther studies suggest that consumption of comfort food is triggered in men by positive emotions, and by negative ones in women. The stress effect is particularly pronounced among college-aged women, with only 33% reporting healthy eating choices during times of emotional stress. For women specifically, these psychological patterns may be maladaptive.\n\nA therapeutic use of these findings includes offering comfort foods or \"happy hour\" beverages to anorectic geriatric patients whose health and quality of life otherwise decreases with reduced oral intake.\n\nA partial list by country of comfort foods around the world.\n\nComfort foods in Australia and New Zealand may include:\n\nBritish comfort foods include the following foods:\n\nSome popular Indonesian foods are considered to be comfort food, usually served hot or warm, and soupy or with a soft texture. Most of them are high in carbs or fat, such as fried rice, congee, and noodles which are high in carbs; while meatballs and grilled skewered meats contains fair amount of fat and salt. Comfort foods often are the kind of food that provides nostalgic sentiments, as they often called \"masakan rumahan\" (home cooking) or \"masakan ibu\" (mother's dishes). In Indonesia, the warm and soft texture of bubur ayam is believed to help people to recover during convalescence. Sayur sop or sup ayam is Indonesian chicken soup that often sought during flu. The warm soup contains chunk of chicken, bits of potato, carrot, and common green bean served in chicken stock.\n\nSome Indonesian comfort foods are traditional Indonesian food and some are derived from Chinese influences. For some Indonesians, especially those who are abroad, comfort food might also be a certain brand or type of Indonesian instant noodle, such as Indomie Mi goreng. Indonesian comfort foods include:\n\n\nSome Polish comfort food include:\n\nSome Puerto Rican comfort foods include:\n\nRussian comfort foods may include but are not limited to:\n\nIn Turkish, comfort food is closest in meaning to , \"\"mother's dish\", especially in terms of providing a nostalgic feeling, or , \"home dish\"\". Some Turkish comfort foods are:\n\nAmerican comfort foods may include the following foods:\n\n"}
{"id": "13308639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13308639", "title": "Cortical deafness", "text": "Cortical deafness\n\nCortical deafness is a rare form of sensorineural hearing loss caused by damage to the primary auditory cortex. Cortical deafness is an auditory disorder where the patient is unable to hear sounds but has no apparent damage to the anatomy of the ear (see auditory system), which can be thought of as the combination of auditory verbal agnosia and auditory agnosia. Patients with cortical deafness cannot hear any sounds, that is, they are not aware of sounds including non-speech, voices, and speech sounds. Although patients appear and feel completely deaf, they can still exhibit some reflex responses such as turning their head towards a loud sound.\nCortical deafness is caused by bilateral cortical lesions in the primary auditory cortex located in the temporal lobes of the brain. The ascending auditory pathways are damaged, causing a loss of perception of sound. Inner ear functions, however, remains intact. Cortical deafness is most often cause by stroke, but can also result from brain injury or birth defects. More specifically, a common cause is bilateral embolic stroke to the area of Heschl's gyri. Cortical deafness is extremely rare, with only twelve reported cases. Each case has a distinct context and different rates of recovery.\n\nIt is thought that cortical deafness could be a part of a spectrum of an overall cortical hearing disorder. In some cases, patients with cortical deafness have had recovery of some hearing function, resulting in partial auditory deficits such as auditory verbal agnosia. This syndrome might be difficult to distinguish from a bilateral temporal lesion such as described above.\n\nSince cortical deafness and auditory agnosia have many similarities, diagnosing the disorder proves to be difficult. Bilateral lesions near the primary auditory cortex in the temporal lobe are important criteria. Cortical deafness requires demonstration that brainstem auditory responses are\nnormal, but cortical evoked potentials are impaired. Brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEP), also referred to as brainstem auditory evoked responses (BAER) show the neuronal activity in the auditory nerve, cochlear nucleus, superior olive, and inferior colliculus of the brainstem. They typically have a response latency of no more than six milliseconds with an amplitude of approximately one microvolt. The latency of the responses gives critical information: if cortical deafness is applicable, LLR (long-latency responses) are completely abolished and MLR (middle latency responses) are either abolished or significantly impaired. In auditory agnosia, LLRs and MLRs are preserved.\n\nAnother important aspect of cortical deafness that is often overlooked is that patients \"feel\" deaf. They are aware of their inability to hear environmental sounds, non-speech and speech sounds. Patients with auditory agnosia can be unaware of their deficit, and insist that they are not deaf. Verbal deafness and auditory agnosia are disorders of a selective, perceptive and associative nature whereas cortical deafness relies on the anatomic and functional disconnection of the auditory cortex from acoustic impulses.\n\nAlthough cortical deafness has very specific parameters of diagnosis, its causes on the other hand can vary tremendously. The following are three case studies with different reasons for cortical deafness.\n\nAuditory perception can improve with time.There seems to be a level of neuroplasticity that allows patients to recover the ability to perceive environmental and certain musical sounds. Patients presenting with cortical hearing loss and no other associated symptoms recover to a variable degree, depending on the size and type of the cerebral lesion. Patients whose symptoms include both motor deficits and aphasias often have larger lesions with an associated poorer prognosis in regard to functional status and recovery.\n\nCochlear or auditory brainstem implantation could also be treatment options. Electrical stimulation of the peripheral auditory system may result in improved sound perception or cortical remapping in patients with cortical deafness. However, hearing aids are an inappropriate answer for cases like these. Any auditory signal, regardless if has been amplified to normal or high intensities, is useless to a system unable to complete its processing. Ideally, patients should be directed toward resources to aid them in lip-reading, learning American Sign Language, as well as speech and occupational therapy. Patients should follow-up regularly to evaluate for any long-term recovery.\nEarly reports, published in the late 19th century, describe patients with acute onset of deafness after experiencing symptoms described as apoplexy. The only means of definitive diagnosis in these reports were postmortem dissections. Subsequent cases throughout the 20th century reflect advancements in diagnoses of both hearing loss and stroke. With the advent of audiometric and electrophysiologic studies, investigators could diagnose cortical deafness with increasing precision. Advances in imaging techniques, such as MRI, greatly improved the diagnosis and localization of cerebral infarcts that coincide with primary or secondary auditory centers. Neurological and cognitive testing help to distinguish between total cortical deafness and auditory agnosia, resulting in the inability to perceive words, music, or specific environmental sounds.\n"}
{"id": "58456149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58456149", "title": "Cyprus Association of Research and Development Pharmaceutical Companies", "text": "Cyprus Association of Research and Development Pharmaceutical Companies\n\nThe Cyprus Association of Research and Development Pharmaceutical Companies is a trade association in Cyprus. It welcomed the establishment of Gesy, the national health system of Cyprus, in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "10449561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10449561", "title": "Declaration on the Rights of Disabled Persons", "text": "Declaration on the Rights of Disabled Persons\n\nThe Declaration on the Rights of Disabled Persons was a declaration of the General Assembly of the United Nations, made on 9 December 1975. It is the 3447th resolution made by the Assembly.\n\nAs a resolution of the Assembly, it is not binding on member nations, but it forms a framework that may be drawn on for the purposes of international and domestic law.\n\nIt consists of a lengthy preamble, and thirteen proclamations that broadly promote the rights of those with disabilities.\n\nIn 2007 the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was adopted.\n\nThe Declaration makes thirteen distinct proclamations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46365983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46365983", "title": "Disability in Canada", "text": "Disability in Canada\n\nAccording to a 2012 survey by Statistics Canada, around 3.8 million adult Canadians reported being \"limited in their daily activities due to a disability\". This represented 13.7% of the adult population. The three most-prevalent forms of disability in Canada are chronic pain issues, mobility, and flexibility limitations. Around 11% of Canadian adults experience one of these disability types, and 40% of those people have had all three at the same time. Disabled people in Canada have historically experienced many forms of discrimination and abuse, such as segregation, institutionalization, and compulsory sterilization. They were not given the same rights as non-disabled people until the end of the 1970s, when the Coalition of Provincial Organizations of the Handicapped (now Council for Canadians with Disabilities) initiated significant changes. Legislation intended to protect disabled Canadians include the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, the Canadian Human Rights Act, and the Employment Equity Act.\n\nCurrently-existing federal legislation which protects the rights of Canadians with disabilities most prominently includes the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, the Canadian Human Rights Act, and the Employment Equity Act.\nDiscrimination against persons with disabilities is prohibited by the Canadian Human Rights Act, which was enacted in 1985. In addition, the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, enacted in 1982, guarantees that persons with disabilities are protected by and will receive the same benefits under the law as any other Canadian. The Employment Equity Act aims to ensure that particular groups, including persons with disabilities, enjoy the same employment opportunities and benefits as anyone else.\n\nLargely having to do with the widespread trust of medical authority and the growth of industrialization, Canadian society during the late 19th and early 20th centuries fostered the segregation of persons with disabilities. Public institutions, such as psychiatric hospitals, houses for the blind, houses of refuge, and church-run homes, confined and isolated persons with disabilities from the rest of society. Persons with disabilities were seen as being a burden on the rest of society and denied the full exercise of their rights.\n\nAfter World War I, many veterans returned to Canada with disabilities due to war injuries, and had difficulty re-integrating into society. The needs of these veterans gave rise to disability advocacy organizations such as the War Amps, which fought for the need for services like rehabilitation, training in sheltered workshops, and other employment-related services. A disparity formed between the status of veterans with disabilities and that of civilians with disabilities, which would continue to widen until after World War II. In the mid-20th century, civilians with disabilities and their allies advocated for the rights of all persons with disabilities to participate fully in society. The deinstitutionalization of persons with disabilities was among their primary causes.\n\nFrom the end of the 1920s and into the 1970s, provincial legislation in Alberta and British Columbia allowed for persons with mental health disabilities who had been institutionalized to be sterilized for the purpose of preventing them from having children who would inherit the same disabilities. While legislation in British Columbia required the consent of the person in question, their spouse, or a guardian, a 1937 amendment to the Sexual Sterilization Act of Alberta meant that, in certain circumstances, this procedure could be completed without the consent or even the knowledge of the person being sterilized. In Alberta, this legislation was repealed in 1972 under the Progressive Conservative government of Peter Lougheed. David King, the MLA who had tabled the bill for the repeal of the Act, stated that he saw the legislation as being in violation of human rights. In British Columbia, legislation permitting sexual sterilization was repealed in 1973, and the \"E (Mrs) v Eve\" Supreme Court decision in 1986 affirmed that, in Canada, it is not legal to sexually sterilize someone without their consent outside of emergency situations.\n\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s the process continued for the deinstitutionalization of persons with disabilities. Not-for-profit organizations such as the Canadian Association for Community Living (formed in 1958, then called the Canadian Association for Retarded Children) opened group homes for persons with disabilities and advocated that money saved by closing government institutions could be used for the expansion of community services.\n\nThe end of the 1970s marked the establishment of the Coalition of Provincial Organizations of the Handicapped (now the Council for Canadians with Disabilities [CCD]), a prominent advocacy group. This organization stood out from others in that it was composed mainly of persons with disabilities themselves, rather than allies or professionals.\n\nIn 1981 the United Nations International Year for Disabled Persons drew attention to and triggered an increase in Canadians' awareness of disability issues. The following year the Charter of Rights and Freedoms was amended to include disability as a basis for discrimination, a cause strongly advocated by stakeholder groups such as the CCD. Canada's Human Rights Act came into effect in 1985, and the Employment Equity Act in 1986.\n\nAs a result of the economic recession, the early 1990s marked a difficult time for persons with disabilities: less funding was available for social assistance and government subsidies were scarce and more difficult to obtain. Developments on disability issues continued to be made at a federal level. In 1991, under the Mulroney government, a five-year strategic action plan was announced for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. In 1996 Prime Minister Jean Chrétien appointed a Federal Task Force on Disability Issues. The federal government Office for Disability Issues, the Government of Canada's focal point on matters with relation to disability, was founded in 2001. The 1990s marked the emergence of an academic discourse aimed at determining the place of disability in Canadian society.\n\nTwenty-first century developments in disability issues include a 2012 Supreme Court decision which established that persons with mental-health disabilities can provide reliable court testimony, and Canada's ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in March 2010. In signing the convention, Canada committed to attempt to improve the social and economic condition of Canadians with disabilities, and in 2014 it submitted a report to the UN detailing its progress.\n\nAccording to the 2012 Canadian Survey on Disability by Statistics Canada, about 3.8 million or 13.7% of Canadians aged 15 to 64 were regarded as disabled. There is a correlation between disability and age, from 4.4% of those aged 15 24 to 42.5% among those 75 and older.\n\nOnly 20.2% of Canadians with disabilities have a university degree compared to 40.7% of their non-disabled compatriots.\n\nDisabled men aged 15-to-64 earn $9,557 less than non-disabled men of the same age. In the case of disabled women in the same age-group the income difference is $8,853. In 2006 the unemployment rate among disabled Canadians was 8.6%, compared to the national average of 6.3%.\n\nAccording to a 2004 survey, 10% of Canadians believe disabled people are fully included in Canadian social life. About 1.4 million disabled adults required assistance with activities of daily living in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "41556829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41556829", "title": "Doctors For the NHS", "text": "Doctors For the NHS\n\nThe NHS Consultants Association was formed in 1976 by medical consultants with a strong commitment to the NHS and its founding principles. It changed its name to Doctors For the NHS in 2014.\n\nClive Peedell and Dr Jacky Davis are co-chairs.\n\nIn 2005 the Association initiated the campaign Keep Our NHS Public.\n\nIt was active in the campaign against the Health and Social Care Act 2012.\nIts founder and co-chair Clive Peedall and Jacky Davis support and actively campaign for physician - assisted suicide to be made available on the NHS.\n\n"}
{"id": "5905951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5905951", "title": "Elsie Gerlach", "text": "Elsie Gerlach\n\nDr. Elsie Gerlach (1900-1967) was named the first superintendent of the University of Illinois at Chicago College of Dentistry Children's Clinic in 1927. Dr. Gerlach stayed for 38 years and became nationally known and respected as a pioneer in the teaching and development of pediatric dentistry. While working at the college, she was also a teacher and administrator at LaRabida Sanitarium, the Crippled Children's Hospital, and the Chicago Child Care Society. Active with the American Society of Dentistry since its inception, the organization awarded her its first-ever life membership in 1962.\n\n"}
{"id": "2344085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2344085", "title": "European Parliament Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety", "text": "European Parliament Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety\n\nThe Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety (ENVI) is a committee of the European Parliament. It has 69 full members. Its current chair is Adina-Ioana Vălean, a Romanian member of the European People's Party.\n\nDuring the 1990s its relatively low importance led to its being referred to unfavourably by MEPs as the \"Cinderella committee\". However, since then the committee's powers have increased. The co-decision procedure for legislation, which grants greater powers to the Parliament, has been extended to more policy areas. Notably, the areas covered by this committee were the main recipients of these new powers. The rising importance of the issues it deals with (for example, global warming) has also meant that it has become one of the most important committees in Parliament. The committee's open sessions, as well as constituting a major forum within the Parliament, are usually well attended by both business lobbyists and representatives from environmental NGOs.\n\nThe committee is responsible for:\n\n1. environmental policy and environmental protection measures, in particular concerning:\n\n2. public health, in particular:\n\n3. food safety issues, in particular:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2178091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2178091", "title": "Folliculogenesis", "text": "Folliculogenesis\n\nIn biology, folliculogenesis is the maturation of the ovarian follicle, a densely packed shell of somatic cells that contains an immature oocyte. Folliculogenesis describes the progression of a number of small \"primordial follicles\" into large \"preovulatory follicles\" that occurs in part during the menstrual cycle.\n\nContrary to male spermatogenesis, which can last indefinitely, folliculogenesis ends when the remaining follicles in the ovaries are incapable of responding to the hormonal cues that previously recruited some follicles to mature. This depletion in follicle supply signals the beginning of menopause.\n\nThe primary role of the follicle is oocyte support. From birth, the ovaries of the human female contain a number of immature, primordial follicles. These follicles each contain a similarly immature primary oocyte. At puberty clutches of follicles begin folliculogenesis, entering a growth pattern that ends in death (apoptosis) or in ovulation (the process where the oocyte leaves the follicle).\n\nDuring follicular development, primordial follicles undergo a series of critical changes in character, both histologically and hormonally. First they change into primary follicles and later into secondary follicles. The follicles then transition to tertiary, or antral, follicles. At this stage in development, they become dependent on hormones, particularly FSH which causes a substantial increase in their growth rate. The late tertiary or pre-ovulatory follicle ruptures and discharges the oocyte (that has become a secondary oocyte), ending folliculogenesis.\n\nFolliculogenesis is continuous, meaning that at any time the ovary contains follicles in many stages of development. The majority of follicles die and never complete development. A few develop fully to produce a secondary oocyte which is released by rupture of the follicle in a process called ovulation.\n\nThe growing follicle passes through the following distinct stages that are defined by certain structural characteristics:\n\nIn a larger perspective, the whole folliculogenesis, from primordial to preovulatory follicle, belongs to the stage of ootidogenesis of oogenesis.\n\nIn addition, follicles that have formed an antrum are called antral follicles or Graafian follicles. Definitions differ in where this shift occurs in the staging given above, with some stating that it occurs when entering the \"secondary\" stage, and others stating that it occurs when entering the \"tertiary\" stage.\n\nUntil the preovulatory stage, the follicle contains a primary oocyte that is arrested in prophase of meiosis I. During the late preovulatory stage, the oocyte continues meiosis and becomes a secondary oocyte, arrested in metaphase II.\n\nAt 18–22 weeks post-conception, the cortex of the female ovary (foetal female ovary) contains its peak number of follicles (about 4 to 5 million in the average case, but individual peak populations range from 6 to 7 million). These \"primordial follicles\" contain immature oocytes surrounded by flat, squamous granulosa cells (support cells) that are segregated from the oocyte's environment by the basal lamina. They are quiescent, showing little to no biological activity. Because primordial follicles can be dormant for up to 50 years in the human, the length of the ovarian cycle does not include this time.\n\nThe supply of follicles decreases slightly before birth, and to 180,000 by puberty for the average case (populations at puberty range from 25,000 to 1.5 million). By virtue of the \"inefficient\" nature of folliculogenesis (discussed later), only 400 of these follicles will ever reach the preovulatory stage. At menopause, only 1,000 follicles remain. It seems likely that early menopause occurs for women with low populations at birth, and late menopause occurs for women with high populations at birth, but there is as yet no clinical evidence for this.\n\nThe process by which primordial cells 'wake up' is known as initial recruitment. Research has shown that initial recruitment is mediated by the counterbalance of various stimulatory and inhibitory hormones and locally produced growth factors.\n\nDuring ovarian follicle activation, the granulosa cells of the primordial follicles change from a flat to a cuboidal structure, marking the beginning of the \"primary follicle\". The oocyte genome is activated and genes become transcribed. Rudimentary paracrine signalling pathways that are vital for communication between the follicle and oocyte are formed. Both the oocyte and the follicle grow dramatically, increasing to almost 0.1 mm in diameter.\n\nPrimary follicles develop receptors to follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) at this time, but they are gonadotropin-independent until the antral stage. Research has shown, however, that the presence of FSH accelerates follicle growth \"in vitro\".\n\nA glycoprotein polymer capsule called the zona pellucida forms around the oocyte, separating it from the surrounding granulosa cells. The zona pellucida, which remains with the oocyte after ovulation, contains enzymes that catalyze with sperm to allow penetration.\n\nStroma-like theca cells are recruited by oocyte-secreted signals. They surround the follicle's outermost layer, the basal lamina, and undergo cytodifferentiation to become the theca externa and theca interna. An intricate network of capillary vessels forms between these two thecal layers and begins to circulate blood to and from the follicle.\n\nThe late-term secondary follicle is marked histologically and structurally by a fully grown oocyte surrounded by a zona pellucida, approximately nine layers of granulosa cells, a basal lamina, a theca interna, a capillary net, and a theca externa.\n\nThe formation of a fluid-filled cavity adjacent to the oocyte called the antrum designates the follicle as an antral follicle, in contrast to a so-called \"preantral follicle\" that still lacks an antrum. An antral follicle is also called a \"Graafian follicle\".\n\nDefinitions differ as to which stage this shift occurs in, with some designating follicles in the \"secondary\" stage as \"antral\", and others designating them as \"preantral\".\n\nIn the \"tertiary follicle\", the basic structure of the mature follicle has formed and no novel cells are detectable. Granulosa and theca cells continue to undergo mitotis concomitant with an increase in antrum volume. Tertiary follicles can attain a tremendous size that is hampered only by the availability of FSH, which it is now dependent on.\n\nUnder action of an oocyte-secreted morphogenic gradient, the granulosa cells of the tertiary follicle undergo differentiation into four distinct subtypes: \"corona radiata\", surrounding the zona pellucida; \"membrana\", interior to the basal lamina; \"periantral\", adjacent to the antrum and \"cumulus oophorous\", which connects the membrana and corona radiata granulosa cells together. Each type of cell behaves differently in response to FSH.\n\nTheca interna cells express receptors for luteinizing hormone (LH). LH induces the production of androgens by the theca cells, most notably androstendione, which are aromatized by granulosa cells to produce estrogens, primarily estradiol. Consequently, estrogen levels begin to rise.\n\nAt this point, the majority of the group of follicles that started growth have died. This process of follicle death is known as \"atresia\", and it is characterized by radical apoptosis of all constituent cells and the oocyte. Although it is not known what causes atresia, the presence of high concentrations of FSH has been shown to prevent it.\n\nA rise in pituitary FSH caused by the disintegration of the corpus luteum at the conclusion of the twelfth menstrual cycle precipitates the selection of five to seven class 5 follicles to participate in the thirteenth. These follicles enter the end of the twelfth menstrual cycle and transition into the follicular phase of the thirteenth cycle. The selected follicles, called antral follicles, compete with each other for growth-inducing FSH.\n\nIn response to the rise of FSH, the antral follicles begin to secrete estrogen and inhibin, which have a negative feedback effect on FSH. Follicles that have fewer FSH-receptors will not be able to develop further; they will show retardation of their growth rate and become atretic. Eventually, only one follicle will be viable. This remaining follicle, called the \"dominant follicle\", will grow quickly and dramatically—up to 20 mm in diameter—to become the \"preovulatory follicle\".\n\n\"Note: Many sources misrepresent the pace of follicle growth, some even suggesting that it takes only fourteen days for a primordial follicle to become preovulatory. Actually, the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle means the time between selection of a tertiary follicle and its subsequent growth into a preovulatory follicle.The actual time for development of a follicle varies. \"\n\nBy the end of the follicular (or proliferative) phase of the thirteenth day of the menstrual cycle, the cumulus oophorus layer of the preovulatory follicle will develop an opening, or \"stigma\", and excrete the oocyte with a complement of cumulus cells in a process called ovulation. The oocyte is technically still a secondary oocyte, suspended in the metaphase II of meiosis. It will develop into an ootid, and rapidly thereafter into an ovum (via completion of meiosis II) only upon fertilization. The oocyte will now travel down one of the fallopian tubes to eventually be discharged through menstruation in the case that it is unfertilized or if it is not successfully implanted in the uterus (if previously fertilized).\n\nThe ruptured follicle will undergo a dramatic transformation into the corpus luteum, a steroidiogenic cluster of cells that maintains the endometrium of the uterus by the secretion of large amounts of progesterone and minor amounts of estrogen.\n\nThese two steps, while not part of folliculogenesis, are included for completeness. They are discussed in their entirety by their respective articles, and placed into perspective by the menstrual cycle article. It is recommended that these three topics be reviewed.\n\nAs with most things related to the reproductive system, folliculogenesis is controlled by the endocrine system. Five hormones participate in an intricate process of positive and negative feedback to regulate folliculogenesis. They are:\n\nGnRH stimulates the release of FSH and LH from the anterior pituitary gland that will later have a stimulatory effect on follicle growth (not immediately, however, because only antral follicles are dependent on FSH and LH). When theca cells form in the tertiary follicle the amount of estrogen increases sharply (theca-derived androgen is aromatized into estrogen by the granulosa cells).\n\nAt low concentration, estrogen inhibits gonadotropins, but high concentration of estrogen stimulates them. In addition, as more estrogen is secreted, more LH receptors are made by the theca cells, inciting theca cells to create more androgen that will become estrogen downstream. This positive feedback loop causes LH to spike sharply, and it is this spike that causes ovulation.\n\nFollowing ovulation, LH stimulates the formation of the corpus luteum. Estrogen has since dropped to negative stimulatory levels after ovulation and therefore serves to maintain the concentration of FSH and LH. Inhibin, which is also secreted by the corpus luteum, contributes to FSH inhibition.\n\nThe endocrine system coincides with the menstrual cycle and goes through thirteen cycles (and thus thirteen LH spikes) during the course of normal folliculogenesis. However, coordinated enzyme signalling and the time-specific expression of hormonal receptors ensures that follicle growth does not become disregulated during these premature spikes.\n\nRecently, two publications have challenged the idea that a finite number of follicles are set around the time of birth. Renewal of ovarian follicles from germline stem cells (originating from bone marrow and peripheral blood) was reported in the postnatal mouse ovary. Studies attempting to replicate these results are underway, but a study of populations in 325 human ovaries found no supporting evidence for follicular replenishment.\n\nIn 2010, researchers at the University of Edinburgh determined that by the time women are 30 years old, only 10% of their non-growing follicles (NGFs) remain. At birth, women have all their follicles for folliculogenesis, and they steadily decline until menopause.\n\nAs women (and mice) age, double-strand breaks accumulate in their primordial follicle reserve. These follicles contain primary oocytes that are arrested in prophase of the first cell division of meiosis. Double-strand breaks are accurately repaired during meiosis by searching for, and building off of, the matching strand (termed “homologous recombinational repair”). Titus et al. (2013) found that, as humans (and mice) age, expression of four key DNA repair genes necessary for homologous recombinational repair declines in oocytes. They hypothesized that DNA double-strand break repair is vital for the maintenance of oocyte reserve, and that a decline in efficiency of repair with age plays a key role in the depletion of the ovarian reserve (ovarian aging).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4144756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4144756", "title": "General Dental Council", "text": "General Dental Council\n\nThe General Dental Council (GDC) is an organisation which regulates dental professionals in the United Kingdom. It keeps an up-to-date register of all qualified dentists and other dental care professionals such as: dental hygienists, dental therapists, dental nurses, dental technicians and clinical dental technicians. It was established in 1956 to set and maintain standards in UK dentistry, with the aims of protecting the general public from unqualified dental professionals.\n\nIts headquarters are in Wimpole Street, Marylebone, London.\n\nThe General Dental Council has also stated that it aims to promote confidence in dental professionals and to be at the forefront of health care regulation. The GDC is tasked with ensuring that all dental professionals maintain up to date knowledge, controlling the quality of dental education in the country, ensuring a proper quality of care is given to the patients, and helping any patient who has questions or complaints. It is meant to act as a bridge of communication between the government, public and the dental professionals.\n\nThe General Dental Council is entirely funded by the profession it regulates.\n\nThe professions that the GDC include in the dental care professionals group are: dental nurse, dental technician, dental therapist, dental hygienist, orthodontic therapist and clinical dental technician.\n\nOn 31 July 2006 it became possible for dental nurses to voluntarily join the GDC register and in July 2008 it became a mandatory requirement.\n\nThe Overseas Registration Exam (ORE) is administered by the GDC, and is designed to test the knowledge, skills and professionalism of candidates against the standard expected of graduate dentists on first registration with the General Dental Council (GDC). This means that UK graduates and overseas dentists are expected to have the same basic level of knowledge and skills.\n\nThe ORE has two parts which must be taken – and passed – in order. The purpose of Part 1 is to test the candidates' application of knowledge to clinical practice and Part 2 is designed for candidates to demonstrate practical clinical skills.\n\nFrom 1 October 2013 the Council has consisted of 12 members who are all appointed: 6 registrants and 6 lay members. The changes were specified in the General Dental Council (Constitution) (Amendment) Order 2012 that was made in July 2012. The new Council took office on 1 October 2013, supported by other new governance arrangements.\n\nThe Council is led by the first appointed Chair of the GDC, Bill Moyes, who took up office on 1 October 2013. Mr Moyes currently holds non-executive directorships with the Office of Fair Trading, the Priory Hospital Group, and the Legal Services Board. He is a trustee of the Catholic Trust of England and Wales and chairman of the boardof Governors of Heythrop College, a constituent college of the University of London. He was previously Executive Chairman of Monitor, the independent regulator of NHS Foundation Trusts from 2004 to 2010, during the Mid Staffordshire Foundation Trust Scandal and Director General of the British Retail Consortium from 2000 to 2003.\n\nIt was established in 1956 by an amendment to the Dentists Act 1948, now updated in the Dentists Act 1984.\n\nThe Council was originally set up in 1956 with 50 members but has been restructured, with the number of members decreasing each time. On 1 October 2009, a smaller fully appointed Council took office with 24 members and a balance of 12 lay and 12 professional. The last Chair of the GDC to be elected was qualified dentist Kevin O'Brien who was in post from 21 September 2011 to 30 September 2013. In October 2013 further restructuring occurred.\n\nThe Professional Standards Authority for Health and Social Care (PSA), is an independent body accountable to the UK Parliament, which promotes the health and wellbeing of the public and oversees the nine UK healthcare regulators, including the General Dental Council.\n\nThe PSA review the performance of all regulators on an annual basis, identifying where things are being done well and where improvements can be made. The PSA review all final decisions made by fitness to practise committees. The PSA audit the initial stages of fitness to practise processes to examine whether the regulator is using effective decision-making processes.\n\nConcerns about cost-effectiveness, levels of confidence in the GDC and cost-effectiveness of fitness to practise procedures were put to the CEO Evlynne Gilvarry by the BDA in an interview that was published in September 2014.\n\nThe GDC recently ran a consultation on the Annual Retention Fee (ARF) policy, which was open from 16 April until 4 June 2014. The GDC had received over 4000 responses to the consultation on the proposed 64% rise in the Annual Retention, fee, and 97% of responses were critical of the rise. The BDA took the step of appointing Forensic Accountants to analyse the figures presented by the GDC as justification for the rise. The subsequent report was quoted as being 'Damning' and resulted in the GDC having to engage KPMG to assess the figures which had been presented as evidence. In September 2014 the GDC's proposed increase in Annual Retention Fees led to threats of legal action from the British Dental Association, the trade union and representative body of UK dentists.\n\nThe Professional Standards Authority have also been highly critical of the GDC in recent months. The GDC is the poorest performing regulator in the eyes of the Professional Standards Authority, failing on 8 aspects of its assessment.\n\nThe initial stages of the GDC's fitness to practise process were audited by the PSA with the findings published in December 2013. Dental Protection Limited have been highly critical of the way in which the GDC approach the Fitness to Practise Proceedings that are the disciplinary hearings Dentists have to undergo. The PSA announced in May 2014 that it would be undertaking an investigation of the management and support processes of the General Dental Council's Investigating Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "16697951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16697951", "title": "Geriatric medicine in Egypt", "text": "Geriatric medicine in Egypt\n\nGeriatric medicine in Egypt as a speciality was introduced in 1982, and in 1984 a Geriatrics and Gerontology unit in Ain Shams University Faculty of Medicine was established.\n\nMany ancient Arabic physicians were interested in the field of geriatrics and some of them wrote separate books on this subject. Abu Ali Ibn-Sina Avicenna's \"The Canon of Medicine\" (1025) was the first book to offer instruction for the care of the aged. In a chapter entitled \"Regimen of Old Age\", Avicenna was concerned with how \"old folk need plenty of sleep\", how their bodies should be anointed with oil, and recommended exercises such as walking or horse-riding. Thesis III of the \"Canon\" discussed the diet suitable for old people, and dedicated several sections to elderly patients who become constipated.\n\nAlso the famous Physician Ibn Al-Jazzar (\"Algizar\") Al-Qayrawani (circa 898–980) wrote a special book on the medicine and health of elderly (\"Kitab Tibb Al Machayikh\") or (\"Teb Al-Mashaikh wa hefz sehatahom\"). Also a book on sleep disorders and another one on forgetfulness and how to strengthen memory (\"Kitab Al Nissian wa Toroq Taqwiati Adhakira\") and a Treatise on causes of mortality (\"Rissala Fi Asbab Al Wafah\"). Another Arabic physician in the 9th century, Ishaq ibn Hunayn (died in 910) wrote a Treatise on Drugs for Forgetfulness (\"Risalah al-Shafiyah fi adwiyat al-nisyan\")\n\nCovering the cost of healthcare is a major challenge for seniors (defined as 60 years or older in Egypt). Currently, 62 percent of elderly men have health insurance compared to 35 percent of elderly women. However, medical care for the elderly, in the absence of a comprehensive health insurance plan, is extremely expensive. Few hospitals have wings just for the elderly, two percent of whom have a permanent disability (that’s 81,000 people). There are only 52 physical therapy centers in Egypt serving 1,258 of those over 60.\n\nGeriatric teaching programs were available in Egypt.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMany geriatric medicine conferences have been held in Egypt.\n\n\nMany psychogeriatrics governmental (Most of Psychiatry departments in Egyptian Universities have or are establishing its psychogeriatrics section) and also other non-governmental private services exist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9448987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9448987", "title": "Glossary of phytopathology", "text": "Glossary of phytopathology\n\nThis is a glossary of some of the terms used in phytopathology.\n\nPhytopathology is the study of plant diseases. It is a multi-disciplinary science since prerequisites for disease development are the presence of a susceptible host species, a pathogen and the appropriate environmental conditions. This is known as the disease triangle. Because of this interaction, the terminology used in phytopathology often comes from other disciplines including those dealing with the host species (botany / plant science, plant physiology), the pathogen (bacteriology, mycology, nematology, virology), the environment and disease management practices (agronomy, soil science, meteorology, environmental science, ecology, plant breeding, pesticides, entomology), and areas of study that apply to both the host and pathogen (molecular biology, genetics, molecular genetics). The result is that most phytopathological glossary include terms from these other disciplines in addition to terms (disease incidence, horizontal resistance, gene-for-gene relationship, blast, scab and so on) that are specific to, or which have a unique meaning in phytopathology. This glossary is no exception. However, for the sake of brevity, it has, for the most part, restricted terms from other disciplines to those that pertain to the pathogen. At some point, these terms should be moved to other glossaries (e.g. glossary of mycology, glossary of nematology, and so on).\n\nabiotic\n\nacceptable daily intake\n\nacervulus (pl. acervuli)\n\nacid precipitation\n\nacid rain\n\nacropetal\n\nActinomycetes\n\nacute\n\nacute toxicity\n\naeciospore\n\naecium\n\naflatoxin\n\nagar\n\naggressiveness\n\nair pollution\n\nalkaloids\n\nallele\n\nallelopathy\n\nalternate host\n\nalternative hosts\n\nalternation of generations\n\namphid\n\namphigynous\n\namphimixis\n\namphimobile\n\nanaerobic\n\nanamorph (adj. anamorphic; syn. imperfect state)\n\nanastomosis (pl. anastomoses)\n\nanthracnoes\n\nantibiotic\n\nantibody\n\nantigen\n\nantiseptic\n\napothecium\n\nantiseptic\n\nappressorium (pl. appressoria)\n\narbuscular mycorrhiza (abbr. AM; syn. endomycorrhiza) \n\narbuscule\n\nascocarp (syn. ascoma)\n\nascogenous\n\nascogonium (pl. ascogonia)\n\nascoma (pl. ascomata; syn. ascocarp)\n\nAscomycetes\n\nasci\n\nascospore\n\nascostroma (pl. ascostromata) \n\nascus (pl. asci) \n\naseptate\n\nasexual\n\nasexual reproduction\n\natrophy\n\nAUDPC (abbr. for Area Under Disease Progress Curve)\n\nautotroph\n\navirulence (avr) gene\n\navirulent (syn. nonpathogenic)\n\naxenic\n\nautoecious\n\nbacilliform\n\nbacterial streaming\n\nbactericide\n\nbacteriocin\n\nbacteriophage\n\nbacterium (pl. bacteria)\n\nbactericide\n\nbasal knob (syn. stylet knob)\n\nbasidiocarp (syn. basidioma)\n\nBasidiomyctes\n\nbasidiospore\n\nbasidium (pl. basidia)\n\nbasidiospore\n\nbasidium (pl. basidia; adj. basidial)\n\nbinary fission\n\nbinucleate\n\nbioassay\n\nbiocide\n\nbiocontrol (syn. biological control)\n\nbiotic\n\nbiotroph (syn. obligate parasite)\n\nbiotype\n\nbitunicate\n\nblasting\n\nblight\n\nblotch\n\nbreaking\n\nbroadcast application\n\nbrooming\n\nbrown rot (of wood)\n\nburn\n\nbursa\n\ncanker\n\ncapsid (syn. coat protein)\n\ncarcinogen\n\ncarrier\n\ncasting\n\ncausal agent\n\ncertification\n\ncfu (abbr. for colony forming unit)\n\nchemotaxis (syn. chemotropism) \n\nchemotherapy\n\nchlamydospore\n\nchlamydospore\n\nchlorosis\n\nchronic toxicity\n\nchytridiomycetes\n\ncirculative-propagative transmission (syn. propagative transmission) \n\ncirculative transmission (syn. persistent transmission) \n\ncirrus\n\ncleistothecium\n\nclamp connection\n\nclavate (or claviform)\n\ncoalesce\n\ncoat protein (syn. capsid) \n\ncoccus (pl. cocci)\n\ncoelomycetes\n\ncolonization\n\ncolony\n\ncolony forming unit (abbr. cfu)\n\ncompartmentalization\n\nconidiogenesis\n\nconidiogenous\n\nconidioma (pl. conidiomata)\n\nconidiophore\n\nconidium (pl. conidia) \n\nconjugation\n\nconk\n\nconstitutive\n\ncontact fungicide (syn. protectant fungicide)\n\ncoremium (pl. coremia; syn. synnema)\n\ncross-protection\n\ncrozier\n\ncryptobiosis (hidden life)\n\ncurl\n\ncyst\n\ncytopathology\n\ndamping-off\n\ndays to harvest\n\ndecay\n\ndegree-day\n\ndemicyclic\n\ndeuteromycetes (syn. Fungi Imperfecti)\n\ndiagnostic\n\nantigen\n\ndiploid\n\ndiapause\n\ndieback (v. die back)\n\ndifferential host (syn. differential cultivar)\n\ndifferential medium\n\ndifferentiation\n\ndikaryon (adj. dikaryotic)\n\ndilution plating\n\ndilution streaking\n\ndimorphic\n\ndirect penetration\n\nDiscomycetes\n\ndisease\n\ndisease cycle\n\ndisease incidence\n\ndisease progress curve\n\ndisease pyramid\n\ndisease severity\n\ndisease triangle\n\ndisinfect\n\ndisinfest\n\ndispersal (syn. dissemination) \n\ndissemination (syn. dispersal)\n\ndolipore septum\n\ndormancy (adj. dormant)\n\ndowny mildew\n\ndrift (of pesticides)\n\ndrought \n\ndurable resistance\n\ndwarfing \n\nechinulate\n\neconomic threshold\n\nectomycorrhiza (pl. ectomycorrhizae) \n\nectoparasite \n\nectotrophic\n\nelicitor\n\nenation\n\nencapsidate\n\nencyst\n\nendemic\n\nendogenous\n\nendophytic\n\nendoconidium (pl. endoconidia)\n\nendomycorrhiza (pl. endomycorrhizae; syn. arbuscular mycorrhiza) \n\nendoparasite\n\nendospore\n\nepidemic\n\nepidemiology\n\nepinasty\n\nepiphytotic\n\neradicant\n\neradication\n\nergot\n\nergotism\n\nerumpent\n\nescape\n\netiolation\n\netiology\n\nexclusion\n\nexogenous\n\nexudate\n\nf. sp. (abbr. for forma specialis)\n\nfacultative parasite\n\nfacultative saprotroph\n\nfasciation\n\nfastidious\n\nfilamentous (syn. filiform) \n\nflagellum\n\nflagging\n\nfleck\n\nfocus (pl. foci) \n\nforest decline\n\nforma specialis (abbr. f.sp.; pl. formae speciales) \n\nfructification\n\nfruiting body\n\nfumigant (v. fumigate)\n\nFungi Imperfecti (syn. Deuteromycetes\n\nfungicide (adj. fungicidal)\n\nfungus (pl. fungi)\n\nfungistat (adj. fungistatic)\n\nfungistasis\n\nfusiform\n\ngall\n\ngametangium (pl. gametangia)\n\ngametophyte\n\ngene-for-gene hypothesis\n\ngeneral resistance (syn. horizontal resistance, race non-specific resistance)\n\ngenotype\n\ngerm theory\n\ngiant cell\n\ngirdle\n\ngiant cells\n\ngram-negative\n\ngram-positive\n\ngram stain\n\ngrowth regulator (syn. hormone) \n\ngummosis (pl. gummoses) \n\nhaploid\n\nhardiness\n\nhaustorium (pl. haustoria)\n\nhemiparasite\n\nhermaphrodite (adj. hermaphroditic) \n\nheteroecious\n\nheterokaryon (adj. heterokaryotic) \n\nheterothallic\n\nheterotroph\n\nholomorph\n\nholoparasite\n\nhomokaryon (adj. homokaryotic) \n\nhomothallism (adj. homothallic)\n\nhorizontal resistance (syn. general resistance, race non-specific resistance)\n\nhost plant\n\nhost range\n\nhyaline\n\nhymenium\n\nhyperparasite\n\nhyperplasia\n\nhypertrophy\n\nhypersensitive\n\nhypersensitive reaction and pathogenicity (hrp) gene\n\nhypersensitive response (HR) \n\nhypha\n\nhyphal sheath (syn. mantle)\n\nhyphomycetes\n\nhyphopodium\n\nhypoplasia\n\nhypovirulence\n\nimmune\n\nimmunity\n\nimperfect fungi (syn. Fungi Imperfecti, deuteromycetes)\n\nimperfect state (syn. anamorph)\nin planta\n\nin situ\n\nin vitro\n\nin vivo\n\nincubation period\n\nindicator plant\n\nindirect penetration\n\ninduced\n\ninduced systemic resistance (ISR)\n\ninfection court\n\ninfection cushion\n\ninfection focus\n\ninfection peg (syn. penetration peg) \n\ninfection period\ninfectious\n\ninfective\n\ninfest (n. infestation) \n\ninitial inoculum (syn. primary inoculum)\n\ninjury\n\ninoculate (n. inoculation)\n\ninoculum (pl. inocula)\n\ninoculum density\n\nintegrated pest management (abbr. IPM)\n\nintumescence (syn. edema or oedema) \n\nIPM (abbr. for integrated pest management) \n\nisolate\n\nklendusity\nThe disease-escaping ability of plants.\n\nKoch's postulates\n\nknot\n\nlatent infection\n\nlatent period\n\nleaf dip\n\nleaf spot\n\nleafroll\n\nlesion\n\nlife cycle\n\nlignification\n\nlocal lesion\n\nlocal necrosis\n\nlodge\n\nmacerate\n\nmacroconidium (pl. macroconidia) \n\nmacrocyclic\n\nmacronutrient\n\nmantle (syn. hyphal sheath) \n\nmating types\n\nmechanical injury\n\nmechanical transmission\n\nmedium (pl. media) \n\nmelanin\n\nmicrobial\n\nmicroclimate\n\nmicroconidium (pl. microconidia) \n\nmicrocyclic\n\nmicroflora\n\nmicronutrient\n\nmicroorganism (syn. microbe)\n\nmicrosclerotium \n\nmildew\n\nMLO (syn. mycoplasmalike organism) \n\nmold\n\nmollicute\n\nmonocyclic\n\nmonoecious\n\nmonogenic\n\nmonogenic resistance (syn. single gene resistance)\n\nmonotrichous\n\nmonoxenic culture\n\nmosaic\n\nmotile\n\nmottle\n\nmovement protein\n\nmultigenic resistance (syn. polygenic resistance)\n\nmultiline\n\nmultinucleate\n\nmultiparticulate virus\n\nmultipartite virus\n\nmultiseptate\n\nmummification\n\nmummy\n\nmushroom\n\nmutagen\n\nMycelia sterilia\n\nmycelium (pl. mycelia)\n\nmycology\n\nmycoparasite\n\nmycoplasmalike organism (syn. MLO) \n\nmycorrhiza (pl. mycorrhizae; adj. mycorrhizal) \n\nmycotoxin\n\nmycovirus\n\nMyxomycetes (syn. slime molds)\n\nnecrosis (adj. necrotic) \n\nnecrotroph\n\nneedle cast (of conifers) \n\nnematicide\n\nnematode\n\nnitrogen oxides\n\nnoninfectious disease\n\nnonpathogenic (syn. avirulent) \n\nnonpersistent transmission (syn. stylet-borne transmission)\n\nnonseptate\n\nobligate parasite (syn. biotroph)\n\nocclusion\n\noedema (also edema; syn. intumescence) \n\noligogenic resistance\n\noogonium (pl. oogonia)\n\noomycetes (adj. oomycetous)\n\noospore\n\nooze\n\nostiole (adj. ostiolate)\n\noverwinter\n\npandemic\n\npapilla\n\nparagynous\n\nparasexualism\n\nparasite (adj. parasitic)\n\nparasitism\n\nparthenogenesis (adj. parthenogenetic)\n\npartial resistance\n\npasteurization\n\npathogen (adj. pathogenic) \n\npathogenesis-related (PR) proteins\n\npathogenicity\n\npathology\n\npathotype\n\npathovar (abbr. pv.) \n\npenetration\n\npenetration peg (syn. infection peg) \n\nperfect (see teleomorph)\n\nperithecium (pl. perithecia)\n\nperitrichate\n\npersistent transmission (syn. circulative transmission) \n\npest\n\npesticide\n\nphenological synchrony\n\nphenotype\n\nphloem necrosis\n\nPhycomycete\n\nphyllody\n\nphylloplane-competent\n\nphysiogenic disease\n\nphytoalexin\n\nphytopathogenic\n\nphytopathology (syn. plant pathology) \n\nphytoplasma (syn. mycoplasmalike organism, MLO) \n\nphytosanitary certificate\n\nphytotoxic\n\nplant pathology (syn. phytopathology) \n\nplasmodiophoromycetes\n\nplasmodium (pl. plasmodia) \n\npolycyclic\n\npolyetic\n\npolygenic resistance (syn. multigenic resistance)\n\npolymorphism\n\npolyprotein\n\npowdery mildew\n\npredispose (n. predisposition)\n\nprimary inoculum (syn. initial inoculum) \n\nproinhibitin\n\nprokaryote\n\npromycelium (pl. promycelia) \n\npropagative transmission (syn. circulative propagative transmission) \n\npropagule\n\nprotectant\n\nprotectant fungicide (syn. contact fungicide)\n\npseudothecium (pl. pseudothecia)\n\nPuccinia pathway\n\npustule\n\npv. (abbr. for pathovar)\n\npycnidiospore\n\npycnium (pl. pycnia; syn. spermagonium) \n\nqualitative resistance\n\nquantitative resistance\n\nquarantine\n\nquiescent\n\nquiescent\n\ndormant or inactive\n\nquorum sensing\n\nrace\n\nrace non-specific resistance (syn. general resistance, horizontal resistance)\n\nreceptive hypha\n\nreniform\n\nresinosis\n\nresistant (n. resistance) \n\nrhizomorph\n\nrhizosphere\n\nrhizosphere-competent\n\nringspot\n\nrosette\n\nrot\n\nroundworm\n\nrugose\n\nrusset\n\nrust\n\nsanitation\n\nsap transmission\n\nsaprobe (syn. saprotroph)\n\nsaprotroph\nscab\n\nscald\n\nsclerenchyma (adj. sclerenchymatous)\n\nsclerotium (pl. sclerotia) \n\nscorch\n\nsecondary infection\n\nsecondary inoculum\n\nsecondary metabolite\n\nsecondary organism\n\nseed treatment\n\nseedborne\n\nselective medium \n\nseptate\n\nserrate\n\nsessile\n\nseta (pl. setae)\n\nsexual spore\n\nsexually compatible\n\nshot-hole\n\nsign\n\nsingle gene resistance (syn. monogenic resistance)\n\nslime molds (syn. Myxomycetes)\n\nsmut\n\nsoft rot\n\nsoil drench\n\nsoilborne\n\nsoil pasteurization\n\nsoil sterilization\n\nsolarization\n\nsooty mold\n\nsorus (pl. sori)\n\nsp. (abbr. for species; pl. spp.)\n\nspecies\n\nspecific resistance (syn. vertical resistance)\n\nspermagonium (pl. spermagonia; syn. pycnium for rust fungi) \n\nspermatium (pl. spermatia; syn. pycniospore for rust fungi)\n\nspicule\n\nspiroplasma - helical, motile, cell wall-less bacterium; member of genus Spiroplasma in class Mollicutes\n\nsporangiophore\n\nsporangiospore\n\nsporangium (pl. sporangia)\n\nspore\n\nsporidium (pl.sporidia)\n\nsporocarp\n\nspore-bearing fruiting body\n\nsporodochium (pl.sporodochia)\n\nsporogenous\n\nsporophore\n\nsporophyte\n\nsporulate\n\nspot\n\nstabilizing selection\n\nstaghead\n\nstem pitting\n\nsterigma (pl. sterigmata)\n\nsterilant\n\nsterile fungus\n\nsterilization (adj. sterilized)\n\nstippling\n\nstrain\n\nstreak\n\nstriate (n. striations)\n\nstroma (pl. stromata)\n\nstunting\n\nstylet knob (syn. basal knob)\n\nstylet-borne transmission (syn. nonpersistent transmission)\n\nsubspecies\n\nsubstrate\n\nsunscald or sunburn\n\nsuppressive soil\n\nsusceptible (n. susceptibility)\n\nsymptom\n\nsymptomless carrier\n\nsyncytium (pl. syncytia)\n\nsynergism (adj. synergistic)\n\nsynnema (pl. synnemata; syn. coremium)\n\nsystematics\n\nsystemic\n\nsystemic acquired resistance (SAR) \n\nsystemic fungicide\n\nteleomorph (syn. perfect state)\n\nteliospore (sometimes called teleutospore, teleutosporodesm) \n\ntelium (pl. telia)\n\ntemporary wilt\n\nthallus\n\nthermotherapy\n\ntolerance (adj. tolerant) \n\ntoxicity\n\ntoxin\n\ntransmit (n. transmission)\n\ntrap crop\n\ntransmit (n. transmission)\n\ntrenching \n\ntumor (syn. gall)\n\ntype\n\nurediniospore (also urediospore, uredospore) \n\nuredinium (also uredium; pl. uredinia)\n\nvascular wilt disease\n\nvector\n\nvein banding\n\nvein clearing\n\nvermiform\n\nvertical resistance (syn. specific resistance)\n\nviable (n. viability)\n\nvirescence\n\nvirion\n\nviroid\n\nviroplasm\n\nvirulence\n\nvirulent\n\nviruliferous\n\nvirus-laden, usually applied to insects or nematodes as vectors\n\nvirus\n\nviscin\n\nwalling-off\n\nwater-soaked\n\nwhite rot (of wood)\n\nwhite rust\n\nwild type\n\nwilt\n\nwinterburn\n\nwitches' broom\n\nwound\n\nXLB (xylem-limited fastidious bacteria)\n\nxylem-limited fastidious bacteria (XLB)\n\nyellowing\n\nyellows\n\nzonate\n\nzoosporangium\n\nzoospore\n\nZygomycetes\n\nzygospore\n\n"}
{"id": "22728806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22728806", "title": "Graham-Little syndrome", "text": "Graham-Little syndrome\n\nGraham-Little syndrome is a cutaneous condition characterized by lichen planus-like skin lesions.\n\n"}
{"id": "51714718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51714718", "title": "Havas Lynx", "text": "Havas Lynx\n\nHavas Lynx is a global healthcare communications group established in 1986. \n\nWinner of the Cannes Lions Healthcare Agency of the Year 2018.\n\nThey have offices in Manchester, London, and New York. The company employs over 300 people who are dedicated to transforming the future of healthcare communications by combining science, strategy, creativity and technology.\n\nPart of the Havas network, one of the largest integrated marketing communications organisations in the world, made up of over 300 offices located in over 75 countries. This network offers a diverse range of creative expertise.\n"}
{"id": "87175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87175", "title": "Herd immunity", "text": "Herd immunity\n\nHerd immunity (also called herd effect, community immunity, population immunity, or social immunity) is a form of indirect protection from infectious disease that occurs when a large percentage of a population has become immune to an infection, thereby providing a measure of protection for individuals who are not immune. In a population in which a large number of individuals are immune, chains of infection are likely to be disrupted, which stops or slows the spread of disease. The greater the proportion of individuals in a community who are immune, the smaller the probability that those who are not immune will come into contact with an infectious individual.\nIndividual immunity can be gained through recovering from a natural infection or through artificial means such as vaccination. Some individuals cannot become immune due to medical reasons and in this group herd immunity is an important method of protection. Once a certain threshold has been reached, herd immunity gradually eliminates a disease from a population. This elimination, if achieved worldwide, may result in the permanent reduction in the number of infections to zero, called eradication. This method was used for the eradication of smallpox in 1977 and for the regional elimination of other diseases. Herd immunity does not apply to all diseases, just those that are contagious, meaning that they can be transmitted from one individual to another. Tetanus, for example, is infectious but not contagious, so herd immunity does not apply.\nThe term herd immunity was first used in 1923. It was recognized as a naturally occurring phenomenon in the 1930s when it was observed that after a significant number of children had become immune to measles, the number of new infections temporarily decreased, including among susceptible children. Mass vaccination to induce herd immunity has since become common and proved successful in preventing the spread of many infectious diseases. Opposition to vaccination has posed a challenge to herd immunity, allowing preventable diseases to persist in or return to communities that have inadequate vaccination rates.\n\nSome individuals either cannot develop immunity after vaccination or for medical reasons cannot be vaccinated. Newborn infants are too young to receive many vaccines, either for safety reasons or because passive immunity renders the vaccine ineffective. Individuals who are immunodeficient due to HIV/AIDS, lymphoma, leukemia, bone marrow cancer, an impaired spleen, chemotherapy, or radiotherapy may have lost any immunity that they previously had and vaccines may not be of any use for them because of their immunodeficiency. Vaccines are typically imperfect as some individuals' immune systems may not generate an adequate immune response to vaccines to confer long-term immunity, so a portion of those who are vaccinated may lack immunity. Lastly, vaccine contraindications may prevent certain individuals from becoming immune. In addition to not being immune, individuals in one of these groups may be at a greater risk of developing complications from infection because of their medical status, but they may still be protected if a large enough percentage of the population is immune.\n\nHigh levels of immunity in one age group can create herd immunity for other age groups. Vaccinating adults against pertussis reduces pertussis incidence in infants too young to be vaccinated, who are at the greatest risk of complications from the disease. This is especially important for close family members, who account for most of the transmissions to young infants. In the same manner, children receiving vaccines against pneumococcus reduces pneumococcal disease incidence among younger, unvaccinated siblings. Vaccinating children against pneumococcus and rotavirus has had the effect of reducing pneumococcus- and rotavirus-attributable hospitalizations for older children and adults, who do not normally receive these vaccines. Influenza (flu) is more severe in the elderly than in younger age groups, but influenza vaccines lack effectiveness in this demographic due to a waning of the immune system with age. The prioritization of school-age children for seasonal flu immunization, which is more effective than vaccinating the elderly, however, has shown to create a certain degree of protection for the elderly.\n\nFor sexually transmitted infections (STIs), high levels of immunity in one sex induces herd immunity for both sexes. Vaccines against STIs that are targeted at one sex result in significant declines in STIs in both sexes if vaccine uptake in the target sex is high. Herd immunity from female vaccination does not, however, extend to homosexual males. If vaccine uptake among the target sex is low, then the other sex may need to be immunized so that that sex can be sufficiently protected. High-risk behaviors make eliminating STIs difficult since even though most infections occur among individuals with moderate risk, the majority of transmissions occur because of individuals who engage in high-risk behaviors. For these reasons, in certain populations it may be necessary to immunize high-risk persons or individuals of both sexes to establish herd immunity.\n\nHerd immunity itself acts as an evolutionary pressure on certain viruses, influencing viral evolution by encouraging the production of novel strains, in this case referred to as escape mutants, that are able to \"escape\" from herd immunity and spread more easily. At the molecular level, viruses escape from herd immunity through antigenic drift, which is when mutations accumulate in the portion of the viral genome that encodes for the virus's surface antigen, typically a protein of the virus capsid, producing a change in the viral epitope. Alternatively, the reassortment of separate viral genome segments, or antigenic shift, which is more common when there are more strains in circulation, can also produce new serotypes. When either of these occur, memory T cells no longer recognize the virus, so people are not immune to the dominant circulating strain. For both influenza and norovirus, epidemics temporarily induce herd immunity until a new dominant strain emerges, causing successive waves of epidemics. As this evolution poses a challenge to herd immunity, broadly neutralizing antibodies and \"universal\" vaccines that can provide protection beyond a specific serotype are in development.\n\nSerotype replacement, or serotype shifting, may occur if the prevalence of a specific serotype declines due to high levels of immunity, allowing other serotypes to replace it. Initial vaccines against \"Streptococcus pneumoniae\" significantly reduced nasopharyngeal carriage of vaccine serotypes (VTs), including antibiotic-resistant types, only to be entirely offset by increased carriage of non-vaccine serotypes (NVTs). This did not result in a proportionate increase in disease incidence though since NVTs were less invasive than VTs. Since then, pneumococcal vaccines that provide protection from the emerging serotypes have been introduced and have successfully countered their emergence. The possibility of future shifting remains, so further strategies to deal with this include expansion of VT coverage and the development of vaccines that use either killed whole-cells, which have more surface antigens, or proteins present in multiple serotypes.\n\nIf herd immunity has been established and maintained in a population for a sufficient time, the disease is inevitably eliminated—no more endemic transmissions occurs. If elimination is achieved worldwide and the number of cases is permanently reduced to zero, then a disease can be declared eradicated. Eradication can thus be considered the final effect or end-result of public health initiatives to control the spread of infectious disease. The benefits of eradication include ending all morbidity and mortality caused by the disease, financial savings for individuals, health care providers, and governments, and enabling resources used to control the disease to be used elsewhere. To date, two diseases have been eradicated using herd immunity and vaccination: rinderpest and smallpox. Eradication efforts that rely on herd immunity are currently underway for poliomyelitis, though civil unrest and distrust of modern medicine have made this difficult. Mandatory vaccination may be beneficial to eradication efforts if not enough people choose to get vaccinated.\n\nHerd immunity is vulnerable to the free rider problem. Individuals who lack immunity, primarily those who choose not to vaccinate, free ride off the herd immunity created by those who are immune. As the number of free riders in a population increases, outbreaks of preventable diseases become more common and more severe due to loss of herd immunity. Individuals may choose to free ride for a variety of reasons, including the perceived ineffectiveness of a vaccine, believing that the risks associated with vaccines are greater than those associated with infection, mistrust of vaccines or public health officials, bandwagoning or groupthinking, social norms or peer pressure, and religious beliefs. Individuals are more likely to free ride if vaccination rates are high enough so as to convince a person that he or she may not need to be immune since a sufficient number of others already are.\n\nIndividuals who are immune to a disease act as a barrier in the spread of disease, slowing or preventing the transmission of disease to others. An individual's immunity can be acquired via a natural infection or through artificial means, such as vaccination. When a critical proportion of the population becomes immune, called the \"herd immunity threshold\" (HIT) or \"herd immunity level\" (HIL), the disease may no longer persist in the population, ceasing to be endemic. This threshold can be calculated by taking \"R\", the basic reproduction number, or the average number of new infections caused by each case in an entirely susceptible population that is homogeneous, or well-mixed, meaning each individual can come into contact with every other susceptible individual in the population, and multiplying it by \"S\", the proportion of the population who are susceptible to infection:\n\n\"S\" can be rewritten as (1 - \"p\") because \"p\" is the proportion of the population that is immune and \"p\" + \"S\" equals one. Then, the equation can be rearranged to place \"p\" by itself as follows:\n\nWith \"p\" being by itself on the left side of the equation, it can now be written as \"p\" to represent the critical proportion of the population needed to become immune to stop the transmission of disease, or the herd immunity threshold. \"R\" functions as a measure of contagiousness, so low \"R\" values are associated with lower HITs, whereas higher \"R\"s result in higher HITs. For example, the HIT for a disease with an \"R\" of 2 theoretically is only 50%, whereas with disease with an \"R\" of 10 the HIT is 90%. These calculations assume that the entire population is susceptible, meaning no individuals are immune to the disease. In reality, varying proportions of the population are immune to any given disease at any given time. To account for this, the effective reproductive number \"R\", also written as \"R\", or the average number of infections caused at time \"t\", can found by multiplying \"R\" by the fraction of the population that is still susceptible. When \"R\" is reduced to and sustained below 1, the number of cases occurring in the population gradually decreases until the disease has been eliminated. If a population is immune to a disease in excess of that disease's HIT, the number of cases reduces at a faster rate, outbreaks are even less likely to happen, and outbreaks that occur are smaller than they would be otherwise . If \"R\" increases to above 1, then the disease is neither in a steady state nor decreasing in incidence but is actively spreading through the population and infecting a larger number of people than usual.\n\nA second assumption in these calculations is that populations are homogeneous, or well-mixed, meaning that every individual comes into contact with every other individual, when in reality populations are better described as social networks as individuals tend to cluster together, remaining in relatively close contact with a limited number of other individuals. In these networks, transmission only occurs between those who are geographically or physically close to one another. The shape and size of a network is likely to alter a disease's HIT, making incidence either more or less common. In heterogeneous populations, \"R\" is now considered to be a measure of the number of cases generated by a \"typical\" infectious person, which depends on how individuals within a network interact with each other. Interactions within networks are more common than between networks, in which case the most highly connected networks transmit disease more easily, resulting in a higher \"R\" and a higher HIT than would be required in a less connected network. In networks that either opt not to become immune or are not immunized sufficiently, diseases may persist despite not existing in better-immunized networks.\n\nThe primary way to boost levels of immunity in a population is through vaccination. Vaccination is originally based on the observation that milkmaids exposed to cowpox were immune to smallpox, so the practice of inoculating people with the cowpox virus began as a way to prevent smallpox. Well-developed vaccines provide protection in a far safer way than natural infections, as vaccines generally do not cause the diseases they protect against and severe adverse effects are significantly less common than complications from natural infections. The immune system does not distinguish between natural infections and vaccines, forming an active response to both, so immunity induced via vaccination is similar to what would have occurred from contracting and recovering from the disease. To achieve herd immunity through vaccination, vaccine manufacturers aim to produce vaccines with low failure rates and policy makers aim to encourage their use. After the successful introduction and widespread use of a vaccine, sharp declines in the incidence of diseases it protects against can be observed, necessarily decreasing the number of hospitalizations and deaths caused by such diseases.\n\nAssuming a vaccine is 100% effective, then the equation used for calculating the herd immunity threshold can be used for calculating the vaccination level needed to eliminate a disease, written as \"V\". Vaccines are usually imperfect however, so the effectiveness, \"E\", of a vaccine must be accounted for:\n\nFrom this equation, it can be observed that if \"E\" is less than (1 − 1/\"R\"), then it is impossible to eliminate a disease, even if the entire population is vaccinated. Similarly, waning vaccine-induced immunity, as occurs with acellular pertussis vaccines, requires higher levels of booster vaccination to sustain herd immunity. If a disease has ceased to be endemic to a population, then natural infections no longer contribute to a reduction in the fraction of the population that is susceptible. Only vaccination contributes to this reduction. The relation between vaccine coverage and effectiveness and disease incidence can be shown by subtracting the product of the effectiveness of a vaccine and the proportion of the population that is vaccinated, \"p\", from the herd immunity threshold equation as follows:\n\nIt can be observed from this equation that, \"ceteris paribus\", any increase in either vaccine coverage or vaccine effectiveness, including any increase in excess of a disease's HIT, further reduces the number of cases of a disease. The rate of decline in cases depends on a disease's \"R\", with diseases with lower \"R\" values experiencing sharper declines. Vaccines usually have at least one contraindication for a specific population for medical reasons, but if both effectiveness and coverage are high enough herd immunity can protect these individuals. Vaccine effectiveness is often, but not always, adversely affected by passive immunity, so additional doses are recommended for some vaccines while others are not administered until after an individual has lost his or her passive immunity.\n\nIndividual immunity can also be gained passively, in which antibodies to a pathogen are transferred from one individual to another. This can occur naturally, whereby maternal antibodies, primarily immunoglobulin G antibodies, are transferred across the placenta and in colostrum to fetuses and newborns, or artificially, by which antibodies from the serum or plasma of an immune individual are injected into a susceptible person. Protection generated from passive immunity is immediate but wanes over the course of weeks to months, so any contribution to herd immunity is temporary. For diseases that are especially severe among fetuses and newborns, such as influenza and tetanus, pregnant women may be immunized in order to transfer antibodies to the child. In the same way, high-risk groups that are either more likely to experience infection or are more likely to develop complications from infection may receive antibody preparations to prevent these infections or to reduce the severity of symptoms.\n\nHerd immunity is often accounted for when conducting cost–benefit analyses of vaccination programs. It is regarded as a positive externality of high levels of immunity, producing an additional benefit of disease reduction that would not occur had no herd immunity been generated in the population. Therefore, herd immunity's inclusion in cost–benefit analyses results in more favorable cost-effectiveness or cost–benefit ratios and an increase in the number of disease cases averted by vaccination. Study designs done to estimate herd immunity's benefit include recording disease incidence in households in which a member was vaccinated, randomizing a population in a single geographic area to be vaccinated or not, and observing disease incidence before and after a vaccination program is introduced. From these, it can be observed that disease incidence may decrease to a level beyond what can be predicted from direct protection alone, indicating that herd immunity contributed to the reduction. When serotype replacement is accounted for, it reduces the predicted benefits of vaccination.\n\nThe term \"herd immunity\" was first used in 1923 to refer to an entire population's immunity, in reference to research examining disease mortality in mouse populations with varying degrees of immunity. Herd immunity was first recognized as a naturally occurring phenomenon in the 1930s when A. W. Hedrich published research on the epidemiology of measles in Baltimore and took notice that after many children had become immune to measles, the number of new infections temporarily decreased, including among susceptible children. In spite of this knowledge, efforts to control and eliminate measles were unsuccessful until mass vaccination using the measles vaccine began in the 1960s. Mass vaccination, discussions of disease eradication, and cost–benefit analyses of vaccination subsequently prompted more widespread use of the term \"herd immunity\". In the 1970s, the theorem used to calculated a disease's herd immunity threshold was developed. During the smallpox eradication campaign in the 1960s and 1970s, the practice of \"ring vaccination\", of which herd immunity is integral to, began as a way to immunize every person in a \"ring\" around an infected individual to prevent outbreaks from spreading.\n\nSince the adoption of mass and ring vaccination, complexities and challenges to herd immunity have arisen. Modeling of the spread of infectious disease originally made a number of assumptions, namely that entire populations are susceptible and well-mixed, which do not exist in reality, so more precise equations have been developed. In recent decades, it has been recognized that the dominant strain of a microorganism in circulation may change due to herd immunity, either because of herd immunity acting as an evolutionary pressure or because herd immunity against one strain allowed another already-existing strain to spread. Emerging or ongoing vaccine controversies and various reasons for opposing vaccination have reduced or eliminated herd immunity in certain communities, allowing preventable diseases to persist in or return to these communities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5976415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5976415", "title": "Hippocratic Museum", "text": "Hippocratic Museum\n\nThe Hippocratic Museum is a museum, on the Greek island of Kos. Its exhibits display the history of the Hippocratic Foundation of Kos, which is dedicated to transmitting knowledge about Hippocrates, as well as founding hospitals and institutes. The ancient Greek physician Hippocrates is believed to have been born there. The displays include some literature about the Hippocratic medicine.\n\n"}
{"id": "22459546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22459546", "title": "History of bread", "text": "History of bread\n\nBread was central to the formation of early human societies. From the western half of Asia, where wheat was domesticated, cultivation spread north and west, to Europe and North Africa. This in turn led to the formation of towns, as opposed to the nomadic lifestyle, and gave rise to more and more sophisticated forms of societal organization. Similar developments occurred in eastern Asia, centered on rice, and in the Americas with maize.\n\nCharred crumbs of a flatbread made by proto-Natufian hunter-gatherers from wild wheat, wild barley and plant roots between 14,600 and 11,600 years ago have been found at the Shubayqa 1 archaeological site in the Black Desert in Jordan, predating the earliest known making of bread from cultivated wheat by thousands of years.\n\nBread is otherwise strongly associated with agriculture, and is found in Neolithic sites in Turkey and Europe from around 9,100 years ago.\n\nThere is extensive evidence of breadmaking in Ancient Egypt in the form of artistic depictions, remains of structures and items used in bread making, and remains of the dough and bread itself.\n\nThe most common source of leavening in antiquity was to retain a piece of dough (with sugar and water in) from the previous day to utilize as a form of sourdough starter. Pliny the Elder reported that the Gauls and Iberians used the foam skimmed from beer to produce \"a lighter kind of bread than other peoples.\" Parts of the ancient world that drank wine instead of beer used a paste composed of grape must and flour that was allowed to begin fermenting, or wheat bran steeped in wine, as a source for yeast.\n\nThe idea of a free-standing oven that could be pre-heated, with a door for access, appears to have been Greek.\n\nEven in antiquity there were a wide variety of breads. In ancient times the Greek bread was barley bread: Solon declared that wheaten bread might only be baked for feast days. By the 5th century BC bread could be purchased in Athens from a baker's shop, and in Rome, Greek bakers appeared in the 2nd century BC, as Hellenized Asia Minor was added to Roman dominion as the province of Asia; the foreign bakers of bread were permitted to form a \"collegium\". In the \"Deipnosophistae\", the author Athenaeus (c.A.D.170 – c. 230) describes some of the bread, cakes, and pastries available in the Classical world. Among the breads mentioned are griddle cakes, honey-and-oil bread, mushroom-shaped loaves covered in poppy seeds, and the military specialty of rolls baked on a spit. The type and quality of flours used to produce bread could also vary, as noted by Diphilus when he declared \"bread made of wheat, as compared with that made of barley, is more nourishing, more digestible, and in every way superior.\" In order of merit, the bread made from refined [thoroughly sieved] flour comes first, after that bread from ordinary wheat, and then the unbolted, made of flour that has not been sifted.\" The essentiality of bread in the diet was reflected in the name for the rest of the meal: \"ópson\", \"condiment\", i.e. bread's accompaniment, whatever it might be.\n\nIn medieval Europe, bread served not only as a staple food but also as part of the table service. In the standard table setting of the day the trencher, a piece of stale bread roughly 6 inches by 4 inches (15 cm by 10 cm), was served as an absorbent plate. At the completion of a meal the trencher could then be eaten, given to the poor, or fed to the dogs. It was not until the 15th century that trenchers made of wood started to replace the bread variety.\n\nUp to the 19th century, bread sold in Europe was often adulterated with hazardous materials, including chalk, sawdust, alum, plaster, clay and ammonium carbonate. This gradually came to an end with government action, such as the 1860 and 1899 Food Adulteration Acts in Britain. America had a more difficult time ending these processes of adulteration however, as various states had varying policies regarding bread making. \n\nIn the late 19th century, the British empire encouraged a noticeable increase in import of bread from the colonies. This was regarded as British bread despite its origins, and institutes such as the Imperial Economic Committee encouraged the consumption and trade of foods such as bread from across the empire as they viewed it as cementing Britain's position in its colonies further. Advancements in refrigeration technology and techniques also encouraged an increase in the import of bread, as it could be preserved a lot longer than before and could be transported over longer distances. Bread was transported and stored using refrigeration more than most other foods, particularly in North America, as it was a staple food in most diets, more so than other staple foods like meat. \n\nBread-baking was industrialised at the start of the 20th century. Otto Frederick Rohwedder developed a prototype bread-slicing machine in 1912, and a practical machine that both sliced and wrapped bread in 1928.\n\nA major change was the development in 1961 of the Chorleywood Bread Process. This used the intense mechanical working of dough, and control of gases touching dough, to dramatically reduce the fermentation period and the time taken to produce a loaf at the expense of taste and nutrition.\n\nFor generations, white bread was the preferred bread of the rich while the poor ate dark (whole grain) bread. However, in most western societies, the connotations reversed in the late 20th century, with whole grain bread becoming preferred as having superior nutritional value while Chorleywood bread became associated with lower-class ignorance of nutrition.\n\nMore recently, and especially in smaller retail bakeries, chemical additives are used that both speed up mixing time and reduce necessary fermentation time, so that a batch of bread may be mixed, made up, risen, and baked in fewer than three hours. Dough that does not require fermentation because of chemical additives is called \"quick bread\" by commercial bakers. Common additives include reducing agents such as L-cysteine or sodium metabisulfite, and oxidants such as potassium bromate or ascorbic acid; this last ingredient is added to wholemeal bread to increase the softness of the loaf. Calcium was added to flour in the UK to prevent rickets which had been detected as common in women who joined the World War 2 effort.\n\nSince 1986, domestic breadmakers that automate the process of making bread have become popular in the home.\n\n"}
{"id": "36140778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36140778", "title": "History of psychopathy", "text": "History of psychopathy\n\nPsychopathy, from psych (soul or mind) and pathy (suffering or disease), was coined by German psychiatrists in the 19th century and originally just meant what would today be called mental disorder, the study of which is still known as psychopathology. By the turn of the century 'psychopathic inferiority' referred to the type of mental disorder that might now be termed personality disorder, along with a wide variety of other conditions now otherwise classified. Through the early 20th century this and other terms such as 'constitutional (inborn) psychopaths' or 'psychopathic personalities', were used very broadly to cover anyone who violated legal or moral expectations or was considered inherently socially undesirable in some way.\n\nThe term sociopathy was popularized from 1929/30 by an American psychologist, originally intended as an alternative term to indicate that the defining feature was a pervasive failure to adhere to societal norms in a way that could harm others. The term psychopathy also gradually narrowed to the latter sense, based on interpretations of the work of a Scottish psychiatrist and especially checklists popularized by an American psychiatrist and later a Canadian psychologist. Psychopathy became defined in these quarters as a constellation of personality traits allegedly associated with immorality, criminality, or in some cases socioeconomic success.\n\nOfficial psychiatric diagnostic manuals adopted a mixture of approaches, eventually going by the term antisocial or dissocial personality disorder. In the meantime concepts of psychopaths/sociopaths had become notorious among the general public and as characters in fiction.\n\nHistorical descriptions of people or characters are sometimes noted in discussions of psychopathy, with claims of superficial resemblance or retrospective diagnosis. For example, a vignette by Theophrastus in Ancient Greece concerning \"The Unscrupulous Man\". On the other hand, the ancient Greek military statesman Alcibiades has been described as the best example of a probable psychopath – due to inconsistent failures despite his potential and confident speaking. Figures of insanity (e.g. vagabonds, libertines, the \"mad\") have, at least since the 18th century, often represented an image of darkness and threat to society, as later would \"the psychopath\" – a mixture of concepts of dangerousness, evil and illness.\n\nPsychiatric concepts began to develop in the early 19th century which to some extent fed into the use of the term psychopathy from the late 19th century, when that term still had a different and far broader meaning than today. In 1801, French psychiatrist Philippe Pinel described without moral judgment patients who appeared mentally unimpaired but who nonetheless engaged in impulsive and self-defeating acts. He described this as insanity without confusion/delusion (manie sans délire), or rational insanity (la folie raisonnante), and his anecdotes generally described people carried away by instinctive fury (instincte fureur). American Benjamin Rush wrote in 1812 about individuals with an apparent \"perversion of the moral faculties\", which he saw as a sign of innate defective organization. He also saw such people as objects of compassion whose mental alienation could be helped, even if that was in prison or what he referred to as the \"christian system of criminal jurisprudence\". In 1835 English psychiatrist James Cowles Prichard, based partly on Pinel's publications, developed a broad category of mental disorder he called moral insanity - a \"madness\" of emotional or social dispositions without significant delusions or hallucinations. Generally Prichard referred more to eccentric behaviour than, as had Pinel, out of control passions. Prichard's diagnosis came into widespread use in Europe for several decades. None of these concepts are comparable to current specific constructs of psychopathy, or even to the broader category of personality disorders. Moreover, \"moral\" did not necessarily refer at that time to morality but to the psychological or emotional faculties.\n\nIn the latter half of the 19th century the (pseudo) scientific study of individuals thought to lack a conscience flourished. Notably the Italian physician Cesare Lombroso rejected the view that criminality could occur in anyone and sought to identify particular \"born criminals\" who he thought showed certain physical signs, such as proportionately long arms or a low and narrow forehead. By the beginning of the 20th century the English psychiatrist Henry Maudsley was writing about not just \"moral insanity\" but the \"moral imbecile\" and \"criminal psychosis\", conditions he believed were genetic in origin and impervious to punishment or correction, and which he applied to the lower class of chronic offenders by comparison to \"the higher industrial classes\".\n\nInitially physicians who specialised in mental disorders might be referred to as psychopaths (e.g. the \"American Journal of the Medical Sciences\" in 1864) and their hospitals as psychopathic institutions (compare to the etymologically similar use of the term homeopathic). Treatments of physical conditions by psychological or spiritualist methods might be referred to as psychopathic.\n\nUp to the 1840s, the term psychopathy was also used in a way consistent with its etymology to refer to any illness of the mind. German psychiatrist von Feuchtersleben's (1845) \"The Principles of Medical Psychology\", which was translated into English, used it in this sense, as well as the roughly equivalent new term psychosis, now traced back to Karl Friedrich Canstatt's \"Handbuch der Medicinischen Klinik\" (1841). William Griesinger (1868) and Krafft-Ebing (1886) also notably employed the term in distinct ways.\n\nThe use of the term in a criminological context was popularised by a high-profile legal case in Russia between 1883 and 1885, concerning the murder of a girl who had previously lived in Britain for some time, Sarah Becker (Sarra Bekker). The owner of the pawnbroker shop in which she worked and where her body was found, a retired military man Mr Mironovich, was eventually convicted on circumstantial evidence and imprisoned. In the meantime, however, a Ms Semenova had handed herself in saying she had killed Becker while trying to steal jewellery with her lover Bezak, a married policeman, though she soon recanted and changed her confession. Semenova was found not guilty following testimony from eminent Russian psychiatrist Prof Ivan M. Balinsky, who described her as a psychopath, still then a very general term. Dictionaries to this day note this as the first use of the noun, via British or American articles which had suggested a known murderer had been released and in some cases that psychopaths should be immediately hanged.\n\nIn 1888 Julius Ludwig August Koch first published on his concept of \"psychopathic inferiority\" (psychopathische Minderwertigkeiten), which would become influential domestically and internationally. He used it to refer to various kinds of dysfunction or strange conduct noted in patients in the absence of obvious mental illness or retardation. Koch was a Christian and also influenced by the degeneration theory popular in Europe at the time, though he referred to both congenital and acquired types. Habitual criminality was only a small part of his concept but the German public soon used the shortened version \"inferiors\" to refer to anyone supposedly suffering from an inherent ('constitutional') disposition toward crime.\n\nSome writers would still use psychopathy in the general sense of mental illness, such as Austrian psychiatrist Sigmund Freud in \"Psychopathic Characters on Stage\". By contrast influential German psychiatrist Emil Kraepelin, who had previously included a section on moral insanity in his psychiatric classification scheme, was by 1904 referring to specific psychopathic subtypes all involving antisocial, criminal or dissocial behaviour, including: born criminals (inborn delinquents), liars and swindlers, querulous persons, and driven persons (including vagabonds, spendthrifts, and dipsomaniacs). The influential Adolf Meyer (psychiatrist) spread the concept of constitutional psychopathy when he emigrated to the US, though unlike Koch he separated out cases of what was termed psychoneurosis.\n\nAfter World War I German psychiatrists dropped the term inferiors/defectives (Minderwertigkeiten) and used psychopathic (psychopathisch) and its derivatives instead, at that time a more neutral term covering a wide range of conditions. Emil Kraepelin, Kurt Schneider and Karl Birnbaum developed categorisation schemes under the heading 'psychopathic personality', only some subtypes of which were thought to have particular links to antisocial behaviour. Schneider in particular advanced the term and tried to formulate it in less judgemental terms than Kraepelin, though infamously defining it as ‘those abnormal personalities who suffer from their abnormality or from whose abnormality society suffers.’ In a similar vein, Birnbaum, a biological psychiatrist, suggested from 1909 a concept similar to sociopathy, implying the social environment could determine whether dispositions became criminal or not.\n\nFrom 1917 a forerunner to later diagnostic manuals, called the Statistical Manual for the Use of Institutions for the Insane, included a category of 'psychoses with constitutional psychopathic inferiority'. This covered abnormalities in the emotional and volitional spheres associated with episodic disturbances which did not fit into the established categories of psychosis: \"The type of behavior disorder, the social reactions, the trends of interests, etc., which the psychopathic inferior may show give special features to many cases, e. g., criminal traits, moral deficiency, tramp life, sexual perversions and various temperamental peculiarities.\" Constitutional psychopathic inferiority without psychosis was listed separately as one term to apply to patients considered 'Not insane'. Meanwhile, the American Prison Association had its own definition, in which psychopathic personalities were considered non-psychotic and characterized by failure to adjust to environment, lacking purpose, ambition and proper feelings, while often showing tendencies towards delinquency, lying and various eccentricities, perversions or manias (including dromomania (compulsion to travel or experience new lifestyles), kleptomania (stealing), pyromania (fire-setting) etc.). In the UK the Mental Deficiency Act 1913 included the category of moral imbeciles, who were not intellectually idiots but displayed from an early age an alleged mental defect coupled with alleged vicious or criminal propensities, and on whom punishment has little or no deterrent effect. Cyril Burt and others pointed out that 'psychopathic personality' was used in a broader and somewhat different way in America than in the UK.\n\nIn the first decades of the 20th century, \"constitutional psychopathic inferiority\" had become a commonly used term in the US, implying the issue was inherent to the genetics or makeup of the person, an organic disease. As a category it was used to target any and all dysfunctional or antisocial behavior, and in psychiatric categorization it labeled a broad range of alleged mental deviances, including homosexuality. Some courts began to develop \"psychopathic laboratories\" for the classification and treatment of offenders; the term psychopathic was chosen to avoid the social stigma of \"lunacy\" or \"insanity\", while emphasizing variance from normality rather than simply a mental hygiene issue. Nevertheless, at least one such laboratory issued a report on eugenic sterilization initiatives. From the 1930s, \"sexual psychopath\" laws (a term going back to Krafft-Ebing) started to be implemented in many US states, allowing for the indeterminate psychiatric commitment of sex offenders.\n\nFrom the late 1920s American psychologist George E. Partridge influentially narrowed the definition of psychopathy to antisocial personality, and from 1930 suggested that a more apt name for it would be sociopathy. He suggested that anyone, and indeed groups of people acting together, could be considered sociopathic at times, but that sociopaths – or technically 'essential sociopaths' - were chronically and pervasively so in their motivation and behavior.!n 1933, American Psychiatrist Harry Stack Sullivan first coined the term \"Psychopathic child,\" which is now thought to be the first formulation of autism spectrum disorder, to describe interpersonal deficiency which starts from childhood. Scottish psychiatrist David Henderson published in 1939 a theory of \"psychopathic states\" which, although he described different types and unusually suggested that psychopaths might not all be criminals, included a violently antisocial type which ended up contributing to that being the popular meaning of the term. In the 1940s a diagnosis of autistic psychopathy was introduced, later coming to wider notice and renamed Asperger syndrome to avoid the stigma of the term psychopathy.\n\n\"The Mask of Sanity\" by American psychiatrist Hervey M. Cleckley, first published in 1941 and with revised editions for several decades, is considered a seminal work which provided a vivid series of case studies of individuals described as psychopaths. Cleckley proposed 16 characteristics of psychopathy, derived mainly from his work with male psychiatric patients in a locked institution. The title refers to the \"mask\" of normal functioning that Cleckley thought concealed the disorganization, amorality and disorder of the psychopathic personality. This marked the start in America of the current clinical and popularist conception of psychopathy as a particular type of antisocial, emotionless and criminal character. Cleckley would produce five editions of the book over subsequent decades, including a substantial revision in 1950, expanding his case studies and theories to more non-prisoners and non-criminals.\n\nIn Nazi Germany, especially during World War II, psychiatrists and others in programmes such as Action T4 and Action 14f13 systematically deported, sterilised, interned and euthanised (killed) patients and prisoners who could be classed as mentally ill, feebleminded, psychopathic, criminally insane or just asocial. In the aftermath of the war, therefore, concepts of antisocial psychopathic personalities fell out of favour in Europe to some extent. At the same time, however, in America and other countries the concept became increasingly prominent, used to categorise allied soldiers as fit or unfit for duty or on return to society, or, conversely, in the more specific sinister sense of the term, as a way to explain the actions of Nazis.\n\nThe first version of the American Psychiatric Association's \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM) in 1952 did not use the term psychopathy as a diagnosis, but \"sociopathic personality disturbance\". Individuals to be placed in this category were said to be \"...ill primarily in terms of society and of conformity with the prevailing milieu, and not only in terms of personal discomfort and relations with other individuals\". There were four subtypes (called 'reactions' after Adolf Meyer): antisocial, dyssocial, sexual and addiction. The antisocial reaction was said to include \"individuals who are chronically in trouble and do not seem to change as a result of experience or punishment, with no loyalties to anyone\", as well as being frequently callous and lacking responsibility, with an ability to 'rationalize' their behaviour. The dyssocial reaction was for \"individuals who disregard societal rules, although they are capable of strong loyalties to others or groups.\" Although the sociopathy category was very broad by today's definitions, the DSM-I itself pointed out that it was more specific and limited than the then current notions of 'constitutional psychopathic state' or 'psychopathic personality'.\n\nMeanwhile, other subtypes of psychopathy were sometimes proposed, notably by psychoanalyst Benjamin Karpman from the 1940s. He described psychopathy due to psychological problems (e.g. psychotic, hysterical or neurotic conditions) and idiopathic psychopathy where there was no obvious psychological cause, concluding that the former could not be attributed to a psychopathic personality and that the latter appeared so absent of any redeeming features that it couldn't be seen as a personality issue either but must be a constitutional \"anethopathy\" (amorality or antipathy). Various theories of distinctions between primary and secondary psychopathy remain to this day.\n\nCleckley's concept of psychopathy as expanded on in new editions of his book, particularly the sense of a conscience-less man beneath a mask of normality, caught the public imagination around this time. It also became increasingly influential in psychiatric circles. It later fell out of favor for some time, however, such that when he died in 1984 he was better remembered for a vivid case study of a female patient published in 1956, turned into a movie The Three Faces of Eve in 1957, which had (re)popularized in America another controversial diagnosis, Multiple Personality Disorder.\n\nA sociologist reviewing the field in 1958 wrote that \"Without exception, on every point regarding psychopathic personality, psychiatrists present varying or contradictory views.\"\n\nNevertheless, criminologist sociologists William and Joan McCord were influential in narrowing the definition of psychopathy in some quarters to mean an antisocial lack of guilt accompanied by reactive aggression. From another direction, sociologist Lee Robins was also an influential figure in sociopathy research, stemming largely from her research-based 1966 book 'Deviant Children Grown Up: a sociological and psychiatric study of sociopathic personality', based on operational criteria provided by Eli Robins, which would shape the later diagnosis of Antisocial Personality Disorder.\n\nIn the Mental Health Act in England, a new category of 'Psychopathic Personality' was added in 1959, renamed Psychopathic Disorder in 1983 (then in 2007 removed entirely). This was a legal subcategory in addition to 'mental illness' which did not equate to any one psychiatric diagnosis but covered anyone with \"a persistent disorder or disability of mind which results in abnormally aggressive or seriously irresponsible conduct.\"\n\nOn the other hand, various analysts began to identify \"successful\" psychopaths in society, some even suggesting it was but an adaption to the social or economic mores of the age, others noting they could be hard to spot either because they were so good at hiding their lack of conscience, or because many people showed the traits to some degree.\n\nIn 1968 the second edition of the DSM, in place of the antisocial subtype of sociopathic personality disturbance, listed \"antisocial personality\" as one of ten personality disorders. This was still described in similar terms as the DSM-I's category, for individuals who are \"basically unsocialized\", in repeated conflicts with society, incapable of significant loyalty, selfish, irresponsible, unable to feel guilt or learn from prior experiences, and tend to blame others and rationalise. It warned that a history of legal or social offenses was not by itself enough to justify the diagnosis and that a 'group delinquent reaction' of childhood or adolescence or 'social maladjustment without manifest psychiatric disorder' should be ruled out first. The dyssocial type from the DSM-I was relegated, though would resurface as the main diagnosis in the ICD manual of the World Health Organization.\n\nIn 1974 (and republished in 1984) clinical psychologist Bobby E. Wright wrote about 'The Psychopathic Racial Personality', in which he suggested that negative aspects of the overall behavior of white peoples towards non-white peoples could be understood by seeing the former as displaying psychopathic traits – involving predatory behavior and senseless destruction combined with ability to persuade.\n\nThere remained no international clinical agreement on the diagnosis of psychopathy. A 1977 study found little relationship with the characteristics commonly attributed to psychopaths and concluded that the concept was being used too widely and loosely. Robert D. Hare had published a book in 1970 summarizing research on psychopathy, and was subsequently at the forefront of psychopathy research. Frustrated by a lack of agreed definitions or rating systems for psychopathy, including at a ten-day international North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) conference in 1975, Hare began developing a Psychopathy Checklist. Produced for initial circulation in 1980, it was based largely on the list of traits advanced by Cleckley and partly on the theories of other authors and on his own experiences with clients in prisons. Meanwhile, a DSM-III task force instead developed the diagnosis of antisocial personality disorder, based on 1972 Feighner Criteria for research and published in the DSM in 1980. This was based on some of the criteria put forward by Cleckley but operationalized in behavioral rather than personality terms, more specifically related to conduct. APA was most concerned to demonstrate inter-rater reliability rather than necessarily validity.\n\nNevertheless, one author referred to the concept of psychopathy in 1987 as an \"infinitely elastic, catch-all category\". In 1988, psychologist Blackburn wrote in the \"British Journal of Psychiatry\" that as commonly used in psychiatry it is little more than a moral judgment masquerading as a clinical diagnosis, and should be scrapped. Ellard argued similarly in the same year in the \"Australian and New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry\", describing the concept as 'a reflection of the customs and prejudices of a particular social group. Most psychiatrists are from that group and therefore fail to see the incongruity.' By the 1970s and 80s the sexual psychopath laws were falling out of favor in many states; the Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry called them a failure based on a confusing label mixing law and psychiatry.\n\nHare redrafted his checklist in 1985 (Cleckley had died in 1984), renaming it the Hare Psychopathy Checklist Revised and finalising it as a first edition in 1991, updated with extra data in a 2nd edition in 2003. Hare's list differed from Cleckley's not just in rewordings and introducing quantitative scores for each point. Cleckley had required an absence of delusions and an absence of nervousness, which was central to how he defined psychopathy, whereas neither were mentioned in Hare's list. Hare also left out mention of suicidality being rarely completed and behavior with alcohol. Moreover, while Cleckley only listed \"inadequately motivated antisocial behavior\", Hare turned this into an array of specific antisocial behaviors covering a person's whole life, including juvenile delinquency, parasitic lifestyle, poor behavioural controls, and criminal versatility. Blackburn has noted that overall Hare's checklist is closer to the criminological concept of the McCords than that of Cleckley. Hare himself, while noting his promotion of Cleckley's work for four decades, would subsequently distance himself from it to some extent.\n\nMeanwhile, following some criticism over the lack of psychological criteria in the DSM, further studies were conducted leading up the DSM-IV in 1994 and some personality criteria were included as \"associated features\" which were outlined in the text. The World Health Organization's ICD incorporated a similar diagnosis of Dissocial Personality Disorder. Both state that psychopathy (or sociopathy) may be considered synonyms of their diagnosis.\n\nHare wrote two bestsellers on psychopathy, \"Without Conscience\" in 1993 and \"\" in 2006. Cleckley had described psychopathic patients as \"carr[ying] disaster lightly in each hand\" and \"not deeply vicious\", but Hare presented a more malevolent picture; the \"mask of sanity\" had acquired a more sinister and Machiavellian meaning.\n\nIn 2002 an academic dispute arose around claims and counterclaims of racism in the use of the concept of psychopathy. British psychologist Richard Lynn claimed that some races were inherently more psychopathic than others, while other psychologists criticized his data and interepretations.\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation's monthly outreach and communication bulletin focused on psychopathy in June 2012, featuring articles introduced and co-authored by the main contemporary proponent of the construct, Robert D. Hare.\n\nThe DSM-5 published in 2013 had criteria for an overall diagnosis of Antisocial (Dissocial) Personality Disorder similar to DSM-IV, still noting that it has also been known as psychopathy or sociopathy. In an 'alternative model' suggested at the end of the manual, there is an optional specifier for \"psychopathic features\" - where there is a lack of anxiety/fear accompanied by a bold and efficacious interpersonal style.\n\nOne exhaustive analysis by a Canadian psychologist describes the various lines of work as 'a psychopathy project' attempting to establish psychopathy as an object of science. Overall this was found to have suffered from 'a number of serious logical confusions and deliberate mischaracterizations of its scientific merits' - including its early basis in degeneration theory, tautological definitions and associated neuroscience findings, routinely unclarified assumptions and shifting levels of explanation about the core concept, and exaggerated statistical claims such as based on Hare's use of factor analysis. It was noted, however, that some of the limited research findings may prove useful in a better explanatory framework (i.e. not necessarily under the umbrella of 'psychopathy').\n\nA Swedish sociologist has further placed the more recent resurgence in popular coverage of psychopathy in the context of \"the Enlightenment project\" to use rationality and technology to deal with problems in human life and society. A Scottish sociologist of biomedical ethics has suggested that the DSM's attempt to develop different standards for Antisocial Personality Disorder have been limited and modified by path dependence on the concept of psychopathy/sociopathy, due to the latter being embedded in diverse sociotechnological networks and thereby demanded by various users.\n\n"}
{"id": "44119240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44119240", "title": "International Human Epigenomics Consortium", "text": "International Human Epigenomics Consortium\n\nThe International Human Epigenomics Consortium (IHEC) was launched in 2010 to coordinate global efforts in the field of epigenomics. IHEC aims to generate at least 1,000 reference baseline human epigenomes from different types of normal and disease-related human cell types. \n\n"}
{"id": "16262148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16262148", "title": "Judith S. Beck", "text": "Judith S. Beck\n\nJudith S. Beck (born May 5, 1954), is an American psychologist who is best known for her work in cognitive therapy and cognitive behavioral therapy. Her father is Aaron Beck, MD, the founder of cognitive therapy, with whom she has worked on many occasions.\n\nBeck is the author of the widely adopted and widely cited textbook, \"Cognitive Therapy: Basics and Beyond,\" which has been translated into 20 languages and is a basic textbook in the field for many students in psychiatry, psychology, counseling, social work, and psychiatric nursing in the U.S. and around the world. Her other books include \"Cognitive Therapy for Challenging Problems: What to Do When the Basics Don't Work\", \"The Oxford Textbook of Psychotherapy\", \"Cognitive Therapy of Personality Disorders\", as well as \"The New York Times\" Best Seller (Advice/2007) \"The Beck Diet Solution\" and \"The Beck Diet Solution Weight Loss Workbook\", \"The Complete Beck Diet for Life\", and \"The Diet Trap Solution\", a cognitive therapy approach to weight loss and maintenance. Beck co-developed the Beck Youth Scales for Social and Emotional Impairment and has written hundreds of articles, chapters, and books, for professionals and consumers, on the various applications of cognitive therapy in treatment and training.\n\nBeck is the President of the non-profit Beck Institute for Cognitive Behavior Therapy in suburban Philadelphia. She is also a Clinical Professor of Psychology in Psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania, where she teaches residents. Beck directs the three major functions of the Beck Institute: education, clinical care, and research. In these capacities, she is involved with administration, teaching and supervising mental-health professionals, treating patients, writing, developing educational materials, and consultation. She is a consultant for research studies funded by the National Institute of Mental Health, and assists hospitals, residency training programs, community mental health centers, and other organizations in setting up or improving their cognitive therapy programs. Beck is also a distinguished founding fellow and past president of the Academy of Cognitive Therapy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38254867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38254867", "title": "Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board", "text": "Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board\n\nThe Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board is a statutory body which regulates the practice of medicine in Kenya.\n"}
{"id": "24621370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24621370", "title": "List of triplets", "text": "List of triplets\n\nThis is a list of notable triplets. One in about 8,100 natural pregnancies results in triplets\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25137267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25137267", "title": "Medical genetics of Jews", "text": "Medical genetics of Jews\n\nThe medical genetics of Jews is the study, screening, and treatment of genetic disorders more common in particular Jewish populations than in the population as a whole. The genetics of Ashkenazi Jews have been particularly well-studied, resulting in the discovery of many genetic disorders associated with this ethnic group.\n\nIn contrast, the medical genetics of Sephardic Jews and Mizrahi Jews are more complicated, since they are more genetically diverse and consequently no genetic disorders are more common in these groups as a whole; instead, they tend to have the genetic diseases common in their various countries of origin.\n\nSeveral organizations, such as Dor Yeshorim, offer screening for Ashkenazi genetic diseases, and these screening programs have had a significant impact, in particular by reducing the number of cases of Tay–Sachs disease.\n\nDifferent ethnic groups tend to suffer from different rates of hereditary diseases, with some being more common, and some less common. Hereditary diseases, particularly hemophilia, were recognized early in Jewish history, even being described in the Talmud. However, the scientific study of hereditary disease in Jewish populations was initially hindered by scientific racism, which was based on racial supremacism.\n\nHowever, modern studies on the genetics of particular ethnic groups have the tightly defined purpose of avoiding the birth of children with genetic diseases, or identifying people at particular risk of developing a disease in the future. Consequently, the Jewish community has been very supportive of modern genetic testing programs; this high level of cooperation has raised concerns that conclusions may lead to stigmatization of the Jewish community.\n\nHowever, most populations contain hundreds of alleles that could potentially cause disease and most people are heterozygotes for one or two recessive alleles that would be lethal in a homozygote. Although the overall frequency of disease-causing alleles does not vary much between populations, the practice of consanguineous marriage (marriage between second cousins or closer relatives) is common in some Jewish communities, which produces a small increase in the number of children with congenital defects.\n\nAccording to Daphna Birenbaum Carmeli at the University of Haifa, Jewish populations have been studied thoroughly because:\n\n\nThe result is a form of ascertainment bias. This has sometimes created an impression that Jews are more susceptible to genetic disease than other populations. Carmeli writes, \"Jews are over-represented in human genetic literature, particularly in mutation-related contexts.\"\n\nThis set of advantages have led to Ashkenazi Jews in particular being used in many genetic studies, not just in the study of genetic diseases. For example, a series of publications on Ashkenazi centenarians established their longevity was strongly inherited and associated with lower rates of age-related diseases. This \"healthy aging\" phenotype may be due to higher levels of telomerase in these individuals. It may also be due to the well established correlation between high intelligence and longevity. \n\nToday's 10 million Ashkenazi Jews descend from a population of only 350 individuals who lived about 600–800 years ago. That population derived from both Europe and the Middle East. There is evidence that the population bottleneck may have allowed deleterious alleles to become more prevalent in the population due to genetic drift. As a result, this group has been particularly intensively studied, so many mutations have been identified as common in Ashkenazim. Of these diseases, many also occur in other Jewish groups and in non-Jewish populations, although the specific mutation which causes the disease may vary between populations. For example, two different mutations in the glucocerebrosidase gene causes Gaucher's disease in Ashkenazim, which is their most common genetic disease, but only one of these mutations is found in non-Jewish groups. A few diseases are unique to this group; for example, familial dysautonomia is almost unknown in other populations.\n\nTay–Sachs disease, which can present as a fatal illness of children that causes mental deterioration prior to death, was historically extremely common among Ashkenazi Jews, with lower levels of the disease in some Pennsylvania Dutch, southern Louisiana Cajun, and eastern Quebec French Canadian populations. Since the 1970s, however, proactive genetic testing has been quite effective in eliminating Tay–Sachs from the Ashkenazi Jewish population.\n\nGaucher's disease, in which lipids accumulate in inappropriate locations, occurs most frequently among Ashkenazi Jews; the mutation is carried by roughly one in every 15 Ashkenazi Jews, compared to one in 100 of the general American population. Gaucher's disease can cause brain damage and seizures, but these effects are not usually present in the form manifested among Ashkenazi Jews; while sufferers still bruise easily, and it can still potentially rupture the spleen, it generally has only a minor impact on life expectancy.\n\nAshkenazi Jews are also highly affected by other lysosomal storage diseases, particularly in the form of lipid storage disorders. Compared to other ethnic groups, they more frequently act as carriers of mucolipidosis and Niemann–Pick disease, the latter of which can prove fatal.\n\nThe occurrence of several lysosomal storage disorders in the same population suggests the alleles responsible might have conferred some selective advantage in the past. This would be similar to the hemoglobin allele which is responsible for sickle-cell disease, but solely in people with two copies; those with just one copy of the allele have a sickle cell trait and gain partial immunity to malaria as a result. This effect is called heterozygote advantage.\n\nFamilial dysautonomia (Riley–Day syndrome), which causes vomiting, speech problems, an inability to cry, and false sensory perception, is almost exclusive to Ashkenazi Jews; Ashkenazi Jews are almost 100 times more likely to carry the disease than anyone else.\n\nDiseases inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern often occur in endogamous populations. Among Ashkenazi Jews, a higher incidence of specific genetic disorders and hereditary diseases have been verified, including:\n\n\nIn contrast to the Ashkenazi population, Sephardic and Mizrahi Jews are much more divergent groups, with ancestors from Spain, Portugal, Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria, Italy, Libya, the Balkans, Iran, Iraq, India, and Yemen, with specific genetic disorders found in each regional group, or even in specific subpopulations in these regions.\n\nOne of the first genetic testing programs to identify heterozygote carriers of a genetic disorder was a program aimed at eliminating Tay–Sachs disease. This program began in 1970, and over one million people have now been screened for the mutation. Identifying carriers and counseling couples on reproductive options have had a large impact on the incidence of the disease, with a decrease from 40–50 per year worldwide to only four or five per year. Screening programs now test for several genetic disorders in Jews, although these focus on the Ashkenazi Jews, since other Jewish groups cannot be given a single set of tests for a common set of disorders. In the USA, these screening programs have been widely accepted by the Ashkenazi community, and have greatly reduced the frequency of the disorders.\n\nPrenatal testing for several genetic diseases is offered as commercial panels for Ashkenazi couples by both CIGNA and Quest Diagnostics. The CIGNA panel is available for testing for parental/preconception screening or following chorionic villus sampling or amniocentesis and tests for Bloom syndrome, Canavan disease, cystic fibrosis, familial dysautonomia, Fanconi anemia, Gaucher disease, mucolipidosis IV, Neimann-Pick disease type A, Tay-Sachs disease, and torsion dystonia. The Quest panel is for parental/preconception testing and tests for Bloom syndrome, Canavan disease, cystic fibrosis, familial dysautonomia, Fanconi anemia group C, Gaucher disease, Neimann-Pick disease types A and B, and Tay-Sachs disease.\n\nThe official recommendations of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists is that Ashkenazi individuals be offered screening for Tay-Sachs disease, Canavan disease, cystic fibrosis, and familial dysautonomia as part of routine obstetrical care.\n\nIn the orthodox community, an organization called Dor Yeshorim carries out anonymous genetic screening of couples before marriage to reduce the risk of children with genetic diseases being born. The program educates young people on medical genetics and screens school-aged children for any disease genes. These results are then entered into an anonymous database, identified only by a unique ID number given to the person who was tested. If two people are considering getting married, they call the organization and tell them their ID numbers. The organization then tells them if they are genetically compatible. It is not divulged if one member is a carrier, so as to protect the carrier and his or her family from stigmatization. However, this program has been criticized for exerting social pressure on people to be tested, and for screening for a broad range of recessive genes, including disorders such as Gaucher disease.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56198097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56198097", "title": "NGLY1 deficiency", "text": "NGLY1 deficiency\n\nNGLY1 deficiency or NGLY1-congenital disorder of deglycosylation is a very rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in \"NGLY1\". It is an autosomal recessive disorder. Errors in deglycosylation are responsible for the symptoms of this condition. Clinically, most affected individuals display developmental delay, lack of tears, elevated liver transaminases and a movement disorder. NGLY1 deficiency is difficult to diagnose, and most individuals have been identified by exome sequencing. \n\nNGLY1 deficiency causes a dysfunction in the endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation pathway. \"NGLY1\" encodes an enzyme, N-glycanase 1, that cleaves N-glycans. Without N-glycanase, N-glycosylated proteins that are misfolded in the endoplasmic reticulum cannot be degraded, and thus accumulate in the cytoplasm of cells.\n\nClinical findings in NGLY1 deficiency are not specific, however four common findings have been identified in a majority of patients. These four findings include developmental delay or intellectual disability of varying degrees, lack of or greatly reduced tears, elevated liver transaminases, and a complex movement disorder. The elevated liver enzymes often resolve in childhood. In addition, approximately 50% of patients described with NGLY1 deficiency have seizures, which can vary in their difficulty to control. Other findings that have been reported in affected individuals include sleep apnea, constipation, scoliosis, oral motor defects, auditory neuropathy and peripheral neuropathy.\n\nNGLY1 deficiency can be suspected based on clinical findings, however confirmation of the diagnosis requires the identification of biallelic pathogenic variants in \"NGLY1\". Traditional screening tests utilized for congenital disorders of glycosylation, including carbohydrate deficient transferrin are not diagnostic in NGLY1 deficiency. To date all variants identified as being causative of NGLY1 deficiency have been sequence variants, rather than copy number variants. This spectrum may change as additional cases are identified. A common nonsense variant (c.1201A>T (p.Arg401Ter)) accounts for approximately 1/3 of pathogenic variants identified, and is associated with a more severe clinical course.\n\nThere is no cure for NGLY1 deficiency. Supportive care is indicated for each patient based on their specific symptoms, and can include eye drops to manage the alacrima, pharmaceutical management of seizures, feeding therapy and physical therapy. Most potential treatment options for NGLY1 deficiency are in the pre-clinical stages. These include enzyme replacement therapy, as well as ENGase inhibitors.\n\nEighteen patients with confirmed NGLY1 deficiency have been reported in the medical literature. Patient databases managed through disease specific support groups have reported 46 patients. Currently, the majority of individuals reported with NGLY1 deficiency are of northern European descent, however this likely reflects an ascertainment bias in these early stages of the disorder. Affected individuals with African and Hispanic backgrounds have been identified..\n\nThe first cases of NGLY1 deficiency were described in 2012. NGLY1 deficiency has received a large amount of attention, despite its rarity, due to the children of two media-savvy families being afflicted. The Wilseys, descendants of Dede Wilsey, founded the Grace Science Foundation in honor of their daughter, and Matt Might and his wife founded the Bertrand Might Research Fund. These foundations have contributed millions of dollars to research efforts.\n\n"}
{"id": "7252098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7252098", "title": "Ophthalmia", "text": "Ophthalmia\n\nOphthalmia (also called ophthalmitis) is inflammation of the eye. It is a medical sign which may be indicative of various conditions, including sympathetic ophthalmia (inflammation of both eyes following trauma to one eye), gonococcal ophthalmia, trachoma or \"Egyptian\" ophthalmia, ophthalmia neonatorum (a conjunctivitis of the newborn due to either of the two previous pathogens), photophthalmia and actinic conjunctivitis (inflammation resulting from prolonged exposure to ultraviolet rays), and others.\n"}
{"id": "26560791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26560791", "title": "Organic infant formula", "text": "Organic infant formula\n\nOrganic infant formulas are synthetic substitutes to natural breast milk. \n\nOrganic formulas manufactured in the United States must meet specific conditions regulated by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Agricultural Marketing Services and the National Organic Program. The system of organic production is managed in accordance with the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (OFPA) and regulations in Title 7, Part 205 of the Code of Federal Regulations. All three programs are designed to accredit state agencies and authorize businesses to certify producers and handlers of agricultural goods that operate according to the National Organic Program’s regulations—such as enforcing the OFPA and Federal Title7, Part 205) as organic.\n\nOrganic infant formulas are manufactured with all production aspects certified as organic, including vitamins, cow's milk, sugar and the cleanliness of machines and of handlers.\n\n"}
{"id": "29475492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29475492", "title": "Outline of running", "text": "Outline of running\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to running:\n\nRunning – means of rapidly traveling on foot, in which at regular points during the running cycle both feet are off the ground. Running is a key component to a number of sporting events typically in the realm of road racing, track and field or triathlon.\n\nRunning can be described as:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHistory of running\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18602043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18602043", "title": "Peter Le Marchant Trust", "text": "Peter Le Marchant Trust\n\nThe Peter Le Marchant Trust is a waterway society, a charitable trust and a registered charity number 273207, based in Loughborough, Leicestershire, England, UK.\n\nThe Trust operates its three trip boats Symphony, Melody, and Serenade (two broad beam boats and one narrowboat) on the Grand Union Canal and adjacent waterways. \n\nFor more than thirty-five years, the Trust has provided day outings and canal holidays for disabled or seriously ill people of all ages and disability. The boats are fully equipped for disabled people, with hydraulic lifts and other facilities.\n\nThe Trust's Patron is the former Princess Caroline of Monaco, now Princess Caroline of Hanover.\n\nOther boating charities offering boating opportunities for disabled people:\n\n"}
{"id": "22177040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22177040", "title": "Practice management", "text": "Practice management\n\nPractice management is the term used in General practice for the person who manages the finance and administration of a doctor's office or an office of a medical professional in one of many types of specialty_(medicine). This is distinct from other official titles such as Advanced Practice Manager, which are generally clinical. Practice management encompasses multiple topics including governance, the financial aspects of medical billing, management of one or more mid-level practitioners, ancillary service development, information technology, transcription utilization, and marketing.\n\nThe job of the practice manager has evolved over the last century. When general practice was a cottage industry, operating in the doctor's front room, the receptionist, and the manager, insofar as there was any management, was often the doctor's wife. In the 21st century the biggest practices in the UK now have more than 200,000 patients and hundreds of staff over dozens of sites. Some practices, however, are still single handed. Working conditions in rural areas are very different from those in cities. By no means all the jobs are full time. About half the practice managers surveyed in the UK reported working from five to eight additional hours per week, not all of it paid. Average salary was £39,334.17 \n\nThe same role exists in veterinary practice.\n\nThe work of practice managers is varied but generally includes:\n\nSee also Health administration\n"}
{"id": "3298267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3298267", "title": "Pyomyositis", "text": "Pyomyositis\n\nPyomyositis, also known as tropical pyomyositis or myositis tropicans, is a bacterial infection of the skeletal muscles which results in a pus-filled abscess. Pyomyositis is most common in tropical areas but can also occur in temperate zones. \n\n\nThe abscesses within the muscle must be drained surgically (not all patient require surgery if there is no abscess). Antibiotics are given for a minimum of three weeks to clear the infection.\n\nPyomyositis is most often caused by the bacterium \"Staphylococcus aureus\". The infection can affect any skeletal muscle, but most often infects the large muscle groups such as the quadriceps or gluteal muscles.\n\nPyomyositis is mainly a disease of children and was first described by Scriba in 1885. Most patients are aged 2 to 5 years, but infection may occur in any age group. Infection often follows minor trauma and is more common in the tropics, where it accounts for 4% of all hospital admissions. In temperate countries such as the US, pyomyositis was a rare condition (accounting for 1 in 3000 pediatric admissions), but has become more common since the appearance of the USA300 strain of MRSA.\n"}
{"id": "45558224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45558224", "title": "Rohit Bakshi (neurologist)", "text": "Rohit Bakshi (neurologist)\n\nRohit Bakshi is the Jack, Sadie and David Breakstone Professor of Neurology and Radiology at Harvard Medical School and a Senior Neurologist at Brigham and Women's Hospital. He is director of the Laboratory for Neuroimaging Research at the Partners Multiple Sclerosis Center. Since 2015, he is editor-in-chief of the \"Journal of Neuroimaging\".\n\nHe has built a research program involving quantitative MRI in MS through support from the National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation and National Multiple Sclerosis Society.\n\nHe is a Buffalo native, graduate of Cornell University, and fraternity brother in the Iota Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi. As an Alpha Omega Alpha scholar, he completed a one-year neuroscience research fellowship with Dr. Alan Faden at the University of California, San Francisco. He served a one-year internship at the Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School followed by a neurology residency at the University of California, Los Angeles, where he performed neuroimaging research with Dr. John Mazziotta. He then completed a neuroimaging fellowship at the Dent Neurologic Institute. He previously served as Neurology Residency Program Director and Neuroimaging Fellowship Program Director at the University at Buffalo-SUNY. \n\nHe received the 1998 William H. Oldendorf Award for neuroimaging research. He has served as Chair of the Neuroimaging Section of the American Academy of Neurology, President of the American Society of Neuroimaging, Associate Editor of the journal Neurotherapeutics, and Treasurer of the American Society for Experimental NeuroTherapeutics. He is a Fellow of the American Neurological Association and a Fellow of the American Academy of Neurology. In 2010, he received an honorary Master of Arts degree from Harvard University. In 2013, he was named to the Jack, Sadie and David Breakstone Endowed Chair at Harvard Medical School.\n\nDr. Bakshi has delivered more than 200 invited academic lectures and authored more than 200 peer-reviewed articles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35944875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35944875", "title": "SEICAP", "text": "SEICAP\n\nSociedad Española de Inmunología Clínica, Alergología y Asma Pediátrica (SEICAP), the Spanish Society of Pediatric Allergy, Asthma and Clinical Immunology, is a scientific, non-profit organization, whose aims are to develop and disseminate the knowledge of allergic and immunologic diseases that affect children. Since June 2012 SEICAP has been recognized as a Public Interest Entity.\nAs the most important part of their field of study we can include childhood asthma, rhinitis and conjunctivitis, anaphylaxis, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, urticaria and angioedema, food allergy, drug allergy, allergy to latex, allergy to insect stings, primary immunodeficiency, and other disorders.\nThese conditions are very frequent in children, especially in developed countries, and generate a considerable expenditure on health, especially increasing since the 1990s.\n\nThe acquisition of new knowledge and the development of new diagnostic and therapeutic techniques in the field of medicine have given rise to different medical specialties. Pediatrics was born as a specialty in the nineteenth century, for the study of health in children, because their special features make their pathological processes differ from those of adults, and it experienced the same progress as other areas of medicine. The subsequent development of techniques led to the creation of subspecialties within the field of pediatrics.\nThe different Pediatric Specialties are being promoted by the Spanish Association of Pediatrics (AEP) since 1967. In 1972 the Section of Pediatric Clinical Immunology and Allergology was created, although its actual implementation took place in 1976, during the National Congress of Pediatrics held in Barcelona. In 1995 the Section was transformed into the current SEICAP, as an independent Society with its specific statutes, while maintaining a close relationship with AEP.\n\n\nEthics is an inseparable foundation of SEICAP as an association. The aims and activities of SEICAP are guided by the objective of achieving excellence in the care of children with health problems related to the specialty.\n\nThe number of members of SEICAP is about 350 in 2012. The Society is governed by a Board, composed of seven members, to be partially renewed every 2 years by voting in the General Assembly. To achieve its purposes SEICAP has created several working groups, whose activity is focused on specific aspects of childhood allergy and clinical immunology. These groups are:\n\n\nThe activity of such groups results in the preparation of Reports and Position Papers, Protocols for Diagnosis and Treatment, in organizing training courses, in the design and implementation of projects for basic and clinical research, in the dissemination of information for the scientific community and the general public, and in the collaboration with other scientific societies, with official bodies and with patients’ associations.\n\nEvery year SEICAP organizes its Annual Congress, which updates the knowledge of the specialty, and in which the members contribute papers on their research. SEICAP has a medical journal, \"Allergologia et Immunopathologia\", which is the official organ of the Society, and in which scientific articles are published, submitted by authors from any country. SEICAP has implemented a website. It has an area for professionals and an area for patients and families. It features news and permanent and updated advice (in Spanish) about practical management of allergic diseases, concerning avoidance of allergens, diets, use of medication, treatment protocols, and extensive information for public education.\n\n"}
{"id": "17216741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17216741", "title": "Sammies", "text": "Sammies\n\nThe Sammies are annual awards given by the British Sandwich Association to sandwich manufacturers and retailers.\n\nThough there are many awards, the main ones are included below.\nThe BSA award is given for outstanding achievement to the development of the sandwich industry.\n\nGiven to the manufacturer that has made the most technical progress over the year.\n\nGiven to the retailer who has done the most to promote sandwich sales.\n\n"}
{"id": "13039200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13039200", "title": "Self-help groups for mental health", "text": "Self-help groups for mental health\n\nSelf-help groups for mental health, or mutual aid groups are voluntary associations of people who share a common desire to overcome mental illness or otherwise increase their level of cognitive or emotional wellbeing. Despite the different approaches, many of the psychosocial processes in the groups are the same. Self-help groups have had varying relationships with mental health professionals but generally is shown in research to provide additional support alongside mental health professionals. Due to the nature of these groups, self-help groups can help defray the costs of mental health treatment and implementation into the existing mental health system could help provide treatment to a greater number of the mentally-ill population.\n\nAlthough this article specifically defines mental health as relating to mental illness diagnoses or cognitive/behavioral processes, it should be noted that mental health is an important focus of other categories of self-help groups that are not listed below, such as 12-step groups like Alcoholics Anonymous, support groups for those who have undergone trauma like Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests. These self-help groups aim towards improving the mental health surrounding trauma or addiction in order to facilitate recovery.\n\nMutual support or peer support is a process by which people voluntarily come together to help each other address common problems. Mutual support is social, emotional or instrumental support that is mutually offered or provided by persons with similar mental health conditions where there is some mutual agreement on what is helpful.\n\nMutual support may include many other mental health consumer non-profits and social groups. Such groups are further distinguished as either Individual Therapy (inner-focused) or Social Reform (outer-focused) groups. The former is where members seek to improve themselves, where as the latter set encompasses advocacy organizations such as the National Alliance on Mental Illness and Psychiatric Rehabilitation Association\n\nSelf-help groups are subsets of mutual support and peer support groups, and have a specific purpose for mutual aid in satisfying a common need, overcoming a shared handicap or life-disrupting problem. Self-help groups are less bureaucratic and work on a more grassroots level. Self-help Organizations are national affiliates of local self-help groups or mental health consumer groups that finance research, maintain public relations or lobby for legislation in favor of those affected. Self-help groups include Family-to-Family education and support groups - the effectiveness of which has been confirmed in a recent controlled study.\n\nOf individual therapy groups, researchers distinguish between Behavior Control groups (such as Alcoholics Anonymous and TOPS) and Stress Coping groups (such as mental health support groups, cancer patient support groups, and groups of single parents). German researchers refer to Stress Coping groups as Conversation Circles.\n\nSignificant differences exist between Behavioral Control groups and Stress Coping groups. Meetings of Behavior Control groups tend to be significantly larger than Stress Coping counterparts (by more than a factor of two). Behavior Control group members have a longer average group tenure than members of Stress Coping groups (45 months compared to 11 months), and are less likely to consider their membership as temporary. While very few members of either set saw professionals concurrently while being active in their group, Stress Coping members were more likely to have previously seen professionals than Behavior Control group members. Similarly, Stress Coping groups worked closer with mental health professionals.\n\nMember leadership. In Germany a specific subset of Conversation Circles are categorized as Talking Groups (\"Gesprächsselbsthilfegruppen\"). In Talking Groups all members of the group have the same rights, each member is responsible only for themselves (group members do not make decisions for other group members), each group is autonomous, everyone attends the group on account of their own problems, whatever is discussed in the group remains confidential, and participation is free of charge.\n\nProfessionally led group psychotherapy. Self-help groups are not intended to provide \"deep\" psychotherapy. Nevertheless, their emphasis on psychosocial processes, and the understanding shared by those with the same or similar mental illnesses does achieve constructive treatment goals.\n\nInterpersonal learning, which is done through processes such as feedback and confrontation, is generally deemphasized in self-help groups. This is largely because it can be threatening, and requires training and understanding of small group processes. Similarly, reality testing, is also deemphasized. Reality testing relies on consensual validation, offering feedback, seeking feedback and confrontation. These processes seldom occur in self-help groups, though they frequently occur in professionally directed groups.\n\nIf self-help groups are not affiliated with a national organization, professional involvement increases their life expectancy. Conversely, if particular groups are affiliated with a national organization professional involvement decreases their life expectancy. Rules enforcing self-regulation in Talking Groups are essential for the group's effectiveness.\n\nUnaffiliated groups are defined as self-help groups that function independently from any control at state or national levels, and from any other group or professionals. These groups accept all potential members, and everyone has an equal opportunity to volunteer or be elected. Leaders serve to help the groups function by collecting donations not through controlling the members. Experiential knowledge is mostly found, and there is a high emphasis on sharing. An example of an unaffiliated group includes Wildflowers' Movement in Los Angeles.\n\nFederated groups have superordinate levels of their own self-help organization at state or national levels which make publicity and literature available. The local unit of the federated self-help group retains full control of its decisions. These groups tend to rely on experiential knowledge, and professionals rarely directly interact. The leaders of these groups would be any members comfortable with the format and willing to accept responsibilities. Leaders do not need to have formal training to gain their title. Examples of a federated self-help group would be Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance (DBSA) and Recovery International.\n\nAffiliated groups are subordinate to another group, a regional or national level of their own organization. Local groups conform to guidelines of the regional/national groups. Leaders are self-helpers not professional caregivers, and meetings included educational activities and sharing, supplemented by research and professionals. Examples of an affiliated self-help group would be the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI).\n\nManaged groups are based on a combination of self-help and professional techniques. These groups are populated generally through referrals and group activities are led by group members. Managed groups do not meet all the criteria for self-help groups, and so should be designated professionally controlled support groups. Examples of managed groups are common with support groups in hospitals, such as those with breast cancer survivors and patients that may be managed by a nurse or therapist in some professional fashion. \n\nThe hybrid group has characteristics of the affiliated and managed groups, Like Affiliated Groups, hybrid groups are organized by another level of their own organization. To participate in specialized roles, training is developed by a higher level and enforced through trained leaders or facilitators. The hybrid group14/5 is like a managed group in that it cooperates and interacts with professionals, and that knowledge is highly valued alongside experiential knowledge.\n\nNo two self-help group are exactly alike, the make-up and attitudes are influenced by the group ideology and environment. In most cases, the group becomes a miniature society that can function like a buffer between the members and the rest of the world. The most essential processes are those that meet personal and social needs in an environment of safety and simplicity. Elegant theoretical formulations, systematic behavioral techniques, and complicated cognitive-restructuring methods are not necessary.\n\nDespite the differences, researchers have identified many psychosocial processes occurring in self-help groups related to their effectiveness. This list includes, but is not limited too: acceptance, behavioral rehearsal, changing member's perspectives of themselves, changing member's perspectives of the world, catharsis, extinction, role modeling, learning new coping strategies, mutual affirmation, personal goal setting, instilling hope, justification, normalization, positive reinforcement, reducing social isolation, reducing stigma, self-disclosure, sharing (or \"opening up\"), and showing empathy.\n\nFive theoretical frameworks have been used in attempts to explain the effectiveness of self-help groups.\n\n\nA framework derived from common themes in empirical data describes recovery as a contextual nonlinear process, a trend of general improvement with unavoidable paroxysms while negotiating environmental, socioeconomic and internal forces, motivated by a drive to move forward in one's life. The framework identified several negotiation strategies, some designed to accommodate illnesses and others designed to change thinking and behavior. The former category includes strategies such as acceptance and balancing activities. The latter includes positive thinking, increasing one's own personal agency/control and activism within the mental health system.\n\nA 1978 survey of mental health professionals in the United States found they had a relatively favorable opinion of self-help groups and there was a hospitable climate for integration and cooperation with self-help groups in the mental health delivery system. The role of self-help groups in instilling hope, facilitating coping, and improving the quality of life of their members is now widely accepted in many areas both inside and outside of the general medical community.\n\nThe 1987 Surgeon's General Workshop marked a publicized call for egalitarian relationships with self-help groups. Surgeon General Everett C. Koop presented at this workshop, advocating for relationships that are not superordinate-subordinate, but rather emphasizing respectful, equal relations. One study about the risks of professional partnerships centers on the partnership between Schizophrenics Anonymous (SA) and the Mental Health Association of Michigan (MHAM) over a 14-year period. The study shows that the professional partnership resulted in increased access to SA Groups across Michigan and organization expansion and development within SA. The professional influence also lead more SA Groups to be held in more traditional mental health treatment settings and led to more professional-led SA groups.\n\nA survey of psychotherapists in Germany found that 50% of the respondents reported a high or very high acceptance of self-help groups and 43.2% rated their acceptance of self-help groups as moderate. Only 6.8% of respondents rated their acceptance of self-help groups as low or very low.\n\nSurveys of self-help groups has shown very little evidence of antagonism towards mental health professionals. The maxim of self-help groups in the United States is \"Doctors know better than we do how a sickness can be treated. We know better than doctors how sick people can be treated as humans.\"\n\nA large majority of self-help users use professional services as a gateway to self-help services, or concurrently with professional service or the aftercare following professional service. Professional referrals to self-help groups thus can be a cost-effective method of continuing mental health services and are a way the two can co-exist within their own fields. While 12-step groups, such as Alcoholics Anonymous make an indispensable contribution to the mental and/or substance use (M/SU) professional services system, a vast number of non-12-step groups remain underutilized within that system. These non-12 step groups include those listed below, such as NAMI, DBSA, and Recovery International, as well as local, unaffiliated groups. Professional referrals to such non-12 step groups could be greatly beneficial in establishing these groups as part of the mental health treatment system and gaining acceptance amongst the community. \n\nProfessional referrals to self-help groups for mental health are less effective than arranging for prospective self-help members to meet with veterans of the self-help group. This is true even when compared to referrals from professionals familiar with the self-help group when referring clients to it. Referrals mostly come from informal sources (e.g. family, friends, word of mouth, self). Those attending groups as a result of professional referrals account for only one fifth to one third of the population. One survey found 54% of members learned about their self-help group from the media, 40% learned about their group from friends and relatives, and relatively few learned about them from professional referrals.\n\nSelf-help groups are effective for helping people cope with, and recover from, a wide variety of problems. German Talking Groups have been shown to be as effective as psychoanalytically oriented group therapy. Participation in self-help groups for mental health is correlated with reductions in psychiatric hospitalizations, and shorter hospitalizations if they occur. Members demonstrate improved coping skills, greater acceptance of their illness, improved medication adherence, decreased levels of worry, higher satisfaction with their health, improved daily functioning and improved illness management. Participation in self-help groups for mental health encourages more appropriate use of professional services, making the time spent in care more efficient. The amount of time spent in the programs, and how proactive the members are in them, has also been correlated with increased benefits. Decreased hospitalization and shorter durations of hospitalization indicate that self-help groups result in financial savings for the health care system, as hospitalization is one of the most expensive mental health services. Similarly, reduced utilization of other mental health services may translate into additional savings for the system.\n\nWhile self-help groups for mental health increase self-esteem, reduce stigma, accelerate rehabilitation, improve decision-making, decrease tendency to decompensate under stress, and improve social functioning, they are not always shown to reduce psychiatric symptomatology. The therapeutic effects are attributed to the increased social support, sense of community, education and personal empowerment.\n\nThis increase in social support can lead to added benefits in managing stress, a factor that can exacerbate mental illness.\n\nMembers of self-help groups for mental health rated their perception of the group's effectiveness on average at 4.3 on a 5-point Likert scale.\n\nDepression and Bipolar Support Alliance (DBSA) is a non-profit organization offering support groups for people with depression and bipolar disorder and their family and friends. Originally founded in 1986, it was formerly known as NDMDA (The National Depressive and Manic-Depressive Alliance). DBSA’s format is based neither on twelve steps, nor on a certain text, and in some respects varies from location to location and group to group. While peer facilitators lead the groups, mental health professionals from the local area act as advisors and board members. DBSA’s emphasis is on in-person and online peer support; updated, easily comprehensible information about depression and bipolar disorder; and tools that put the focus on an integrated method of dealing with wellness.\n\nEmotions Anonymous (EA) is a derivative program of Neurotics Anonymous and open to anyone who wants to achieve emotional well-being. Following the Twelve Traditions, EA groups cannot accept outside contributions.\n\nGROW was founded in Sydney, Australia, in 1957 by a Roman Catholic priest, Father Cornelius Keogh, and people who had sought help with their mental illness at Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings. After its inception, GROW members learned of Recovery, Inc. (the organization now known as Recovery International) and integrated its processes into their program. GROW's original literature includes the Twelve Stages of Decline, which state that emotional illness begins with self-centeredness, and the Twelve Steps of Recovery and Personal Growth, a blend of AA's Twelve Steps and will-training methods from Recovery International. GROW groups are open to anyone who would like to join, though they specifically recruit people who have been in psychiatric hospitals or are socioeconomically disadvantaged. GROW does not operate with funding restrictions and have received state and outside funding in the past.\n\nThe Hearing Voices Movement was founded in 1987 by Marius Romme, Sandra Escher and Patsy Hague. The organization represents a different approach to talking about \"hearing voices\", or medically-deemed auditory hallucinations. \n\nNAMI Peer to Peer is an educational program hosted by the National Alliance on Mental Illness, a mental illness advocacy and psycho-education group with branches in most areas of the United States. The program involves a 10-week educational course target at those diagnosed with a mental illness and aims to impress on its attendees better practical coping skills and knowledge of mental illnesses in hopes of empowering individuals. NAMI has Peer-to-Peer classes in addition to the family-to-family classes. National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) has two self-help groups: NAMI Family Support Group for family, friends and caregivers of people living with mental illness, and NAMI Connection Recovery Support Group for consumers, or individuals with mental illness. Both groups are led by peer facilitators who either have a diagnosed mental illness or who have a loved one who does. The groups utilize a structured model but do not endorse a certain therapy or medication. \n\nNeurotics Anonymous is a twelve-step program open to anyone with a desire to become emotionally well. According to the Twelve Traditions followed in the program, Neurotics Anonymous is unable to accept outside contributions.The term \"neurotics\" or \"neuroses\" has since fallen out of favor with mental health professionals, with movement away from the psychoanalytic principles of a DSM-II. Branches of Neurotics Anonymous have since changed their name to Emotions Anonymous, which is currently the name in favor with the Minnesota Groups. Groups in Mexico, however, called Neuróticos Anónimos still are referred to by the same name, due to the term \"neuroticos\" having a less pejorative connotation in Spanish. This branch continues to flourish in Mexico City as well as largely Spanish-speaking cities in the United States, such as Los Angeles.\n\nRecovery, Inc. was founded in Chicago, Illinois in 1937 by psychiatrist Abraham Low using principles in contrast to those popularized by psychoanalysis. During the organization's annual meeting in June 2007 it was announced that Recovery, Inc. would thereafter be known as Recovery International. Recovery International is open to anyone identifying as \"nervous\" (a compromise between the loaded term neurotic and the colloquial phrase \"nervous breakdown\"); strictly encourages members to follow their physician's, social worker's, psychologist's or psychiatrist's orders; and does not operate with funding restrictions.\n\nFundamentally, Low believes \"Adult life is not driven by instincts but guided by Will,\" using a definition of will opposite of Arthur Schopenhauer's. Low's program is based on increasing determination to act, self-control and self-confidence. Edward Sagarin compared it to a modern, reasonable, and rational implementation of Émile Coué's psychotherapy. Recovery International is \"twelve-step friendly.\" Members of any twelve-step group are encouraged to attend Recovery International meetings in addition to their twelve-step group participation.\n\nThere are several limitations of self-help groups for mental health, including but not limited to their inability to keep detailed records, lack of formal procedures to follow up with members, absence of formal screening procedures for new members, lack formal leadership training, and likely inability of members to recognize a \"newcomer\" presenting with a serious illness requiring immediate treatment. Additionally, there is a lack of professional or legal regulatory constraints determining how such groups can operate, there is a danger that members may disregard the advice of mental health professionals, and there can be an anti-therapeutic suppression of ambivalence and hostility. Researchers have also elaborated specific criticisms regarding self-help groups' formulaic approach, attrition rates, over-generalization, and \"panacea complex.\"\n\nResearchers have questioned whether formulaic approaches to self-help group therapy, like the Twelve Steps, could stifle creativity or if adherence to them may prevent the group from making useful or necessary changes. Similarly others have criticized self-help group structure as being too rigid.\n\nThere is not a universal appeal of self-help groups; as few as 17% of people invited to attend a self-help group will do so. Of those, only one third will stay for longer than four months. Those who continue are people who value the meetings and the self-help group experience.\n\nSince these groups are not specifically diagnosis-related, but rather for anyone seeking mental and emotional health, they may not provide the necessary sense of community to evoke feelings of oneness required for recovery in self-help groups. Referent power is only one factor contributing to group effectiveness. A study of Schizophrenics Anonymous found expert power to be more influential in measurements of perceived group helpfulness.\n\nThere is a risk that self-help group members may come to believe that group participation is a panacea—that the group's processes can remedy any problem.\n"}
{"id": "56648818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56648818", "title": "Senkawa Aqueduct", "text": "Senkawa Aqueduct\n"}
{"id": "13784601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13784601", "title": "Service animal", "text": "Service animal\n\nService animals are animals that have been trained to perform tasks that assist disabled people. Service animals may also be referred to as assistance animals, assist animals, or helper animals depending on the country and the animal's function.\n\nDogs are the most common service animals, assisting people in many different ways since at least 1927. Other animals such as pigs, birds, and horses have also been documented. The service animal is not required by the ADA to wear a vest, ID tag or a specific harness. \nIn places of public accommodation in the United States, only dogs (and in some cases miniature horses) are legally considered service animals. It is legal in certain states to have service \"animals\". For instance, in Montana all animals are allowed at state level. Many cats, birds, and even a wolf are working to help mitigate people's disabilities in Montana. It is also legal to train your own service animal in the United States. There is a broader definition for assistance animals under the US Fair Housing Act as well as a broader definition for service animals under the US Air Carrier Access Act. In the United States, prior to a revision of the Americans with Disabilities Act going into effect March 15, 2011 types of animals other than service dogs and miniature horses were protected at least on the Federal level; individual states \"could\" expand coverage.\n\nThe international assistance animal community has categorized three types of assistance animals:\n\nDespite regulations or rules that deny access to animals in restaurants and other public places, in many countries, guide dogs, other types of assistance dogs, and in cases miniature horses, are protected by law, and therefore may accompany their handlers in most places that are open to the public. Laws and regulations vary worldwide:\n\n\nService animals can be of many species and come in many sizes. Dogs, cats, dolphins, miniature horses, monkeys, ducks, ferrets, and parrots have all been trained to perform specific duties of a service animal, though the type of animal that may be registered as a \"service animal\" may vary depending on legal definitions. The people that can qualify for a service animal can have a range of physical and/or mental disabilities.\n\nA \"guide animal\" is an animal specifically trained to assist visually impaired persons to navigate in public. These animals may be trained to open doors, recognize traffic signals, guide their owners safely across public streets, and navigate through crowds of people. A \"mobility animal\" may perform similar services for a person with physical disabilities, as well as assisting with balance or falling issues. \"Hearing animals\" are trained to assist hearing-impaired or deaf persons. These animals may be trained to respond to doorbells or a ringing phone or to tug their owners toward a person who is speaking to them. \"Psychiatric animals\" can be trained to provide deep-pressure therapy by lying on top of a person who may be suffering from PTSD flashbacks, overstimulation, or acute anxiety. Similarly, \"autism dogs\" have been recently introduced to recognize and respond to the needs of people with autism spectrum disorder; some persons with ASD state that they are more comfortable interacting with animals than with human caregivers due to issues regarding eye contact, touch, and socialization.{cn|Sept=2018} \"Medical emergency animals\" can assist in medical emergency and perform such services as clearing an area in the event of a grand mal seizure, fetching medication or other necessary items, alerting others in the event of a medical episode; some may even be trained to call emergency services through use of a telephone with specially designed oversized buttons.\n\nThe animals also provide important companionship and emotional support for owners who might otherwise be isolated due to disability. It is important to note, however, that providing \"important companionship and emotional support for owners\" is not a task that would qualify an animal as a service animal. In the US, it is illegal to bring an animal to non-pet friendly places simply because it provides companionship or emotional support. Additionally, saying your animal is a service animal for such reasons is illegal.{cn|Sept=2018} The owners in turn often derive a sense of accomplishment and importance from attending to the needs of their animals.\n\nMany service animals may be trained to perform tasks to help their disabled partners live independent lives. Such animals include:\n\nA miniature horse can be trained to guide the blind, to pull wheelchairs, or as support for persons with Parkinson's disease.\n\nA full-grown miniature horse can vary from 26” to 38”. There are two main registering organizations. The American Miniature Horse Association limits height to 34” whereas the American Miniature Horse Registry has a division for horses 34” to 38”.\n\nThere are a number of advantages of miniature horses as service animals. Miniature horses may be chosen by people whose religion considers dogs to be unclean or who have serious allergies to dogs, as well as phobias. Miniature horses have average lifespans of 30–40 years (longer than those of both service dogs and monkeys) and take 6 months to a year of training, done only by professional trainers.\n\nGuide horse users report they typically are immediately recognized as a working service animal, whereas a dog may be mistaken for a pet. Miniature horses have been praised for their excellent range of vision (350 degrees), good memories, calm nature, focused demeanor, and good cost-effectiveness.\n\nA helper monkey is a type of assistance animal, similar to an assistance dog, that is specially trained to help people with quadriplegia, severe spinal cord injuries, or other mobility impairments.\n\nHelper monkeys are usually trained in schools by private organizations, taking 7 years to train, and are able to serve 25–30 years (two to three times longer than a guide dog).\n\nAfter being socialized in a human home as infants, the monkeys undergo extensive training before being placed with an individual needing assistance. Around the house, the monkeys assist in daily living by doing tasks including microwaving food, washing their human's face, and opening drink bottles.\n\nIn 2010, the U.S. federal government revised its definition of service animal under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Non-human primates are no longer recognized as service animals under the ADA. The American Veterinary Medical Association does not support the use of nonhuman primates as assistance animals because of animal welfare concerns, the potential for serious injury to people, and risks that primates may transfer dangerous diseases to humans.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42761588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42761588", "title": "Sorby Research Institute", "text": "Sorby Research Institute\n\nThe Sorby Research Institute was a research facility that operated in the UK during and immediately after the Second World War in Sheffield, England. The Institute mostly investigated questions of nutrition. This was an important consideration in wartime Britain, where food was in short supply. The experiments into deficiency of vitamin A and vitamin C were particularly notable. However, other kinds of medical research was also undertaken, such as research into the transmission of scabies.\n\nThe leading figures in the institute were Kenneth Mellanby and Hans Adolf Krebs. The volunteers were mainly conscientious objectors to military service. Some of the experiments were unpleasant, or even dangerous. The Institute closed in 1946, soon after the end of the war.\n\nEarly in 1941 twelve volunteers, pacifist conscientious objectors, recruited via the Sheffield Pacifist Service Unit, were established in a large house in a residential area of Sheffield for research that would \"benefit humanity\". Various medical experiments were conducted on the volunteers. No work that had a direct military application was undertaken since this would not have been acceptable to many conscientious objectors. This establishment became known as the Sorby Research Institute, so named because the leading researcher, Kenneth Mellanby, was a Sorby Research Fellow of the Royal Society at Sheffield University. The fellowship is itself named after Henry Clifton Sorby, a notable Sheffield scientist. Hans Adolf Krebs took over the management of the volunteers in 1943 when Mellanby left to work for the army.\n\nThe establishment was founded on the personal initiative of Mellanby and at first he was free to carry out whatever investigations he chose. Mellanby's status as a scientist meant that he was in a reserved occupation and forbidden from joining the armed forces. Although he wished to do something for the war effort, the military of the time had no use for biologists. Consequently, Mellanby initiated what he considered useful work himself.\n\nThe first experiment was an investigation into scabies. Mellanby had an interest in head lice infestation and scabies was thus a natural area of research for him. Another early experiment looked into water deprivation of survivors in lifeboats. However, the most important work of the Institute was into nutrition, particularly vitamin deficiency. In a period of severe rationing in Britain, it was important for the government to know how far this could be taken and what the consequences would be. This work was commissioned by the Medical Research Council at the request of the Ministry of Health.\n\nThe work of the Sorby Research Institute continued until early 1946. The building is now used as residential accommodation for students from Sheffield University.\n\nThere were initially 12 volunteers at the house. This eventually grew to 35, including three women. Walter Bartley acted as technician and assistant to Mellanby and later became a professor at Sheffield University, but he also served as a volunteer experiment subject. All the volunteers were young; the 19 men and one woman in the vitamin C experiment were aged between 17 and 34. Some volunteers had regular jobs outside the programme, the rest were expected to carry out domestic tasks in the house. They were also given duties to perform for the experimenters such as collecting data.\n\nMellanby chose to use conscientious objectors because they were the only group of healthy young people who were not likely to be taken away from him for some military purpose in the middle of an experiment. For their part, the conscientious objectors wished to take part so that they could do something with an equivalent risk to military service.\n\nIt is unlikely that many of these experiments would be allowed to be repeated under modern ethical guidelines. Some were dangerous for the volunteers. However, according to John Pemberton, who worked at the Institute, nobody was permanently harmed in any experiment. In 2006 Pemberton attempted to trace the surviving volunteers to solicit their views on the work. Only four still living could be found and all said they thought the work was \"worthwhile\" and that they would have \"volunteered again\" if asked.\n\nA few experiments performed on vitamin deficiency, such as one conducted to determine the effects of Vitamin A deficiency and to optimize its treatment. In that study, 23 men and women volunteered to live on a diet deficient in vitamin A. However, this experiment lasted considerably longer than expected, from July 1942 to October 1944, and the only specific effect that developed in those deprived of vitamin A was some loss of night vision after about eight months.\n\nA similar experiment was conducted on vitamin C. It lasted from October 1944 to February 1946. Wounds were created on the subjects to study the influence of the vitamin. Ten of the twenty subjects were completely restricted from vitamin C. The wounds of those subjects became hemorrhagic, but the study found that a daily dose of ten milligrams was sufficient to prevent or reverse scurvy in several cases.\n\nThe vitamin C research led to the issue of free orange juice for children. The Medical Research Council established recommended daily intakes of vitamins A and C on the basis of the institute's research.\n\nScabies is a skin disease caused by the burrowing of the mite \"Sarcoptes scabiei\". It leads to what sufferers have described as an \"almost intolerable\" itching. The experiment was carried out in 1941 and its purpose was to investigate the mode of transmission and possible treatments. The researchers had some difficulty in reliably causing an infection in the volunteers. One technique that was found to be effective was to require the volunteer to wear the used, unwashed underwear of a scabies victim.\n\nMellanby subsequently used the results of this research in the treatment and observation of military personnel, amongst whom the disease was rife and for which there was previously no effective treatment. He set up a military hospital for this purpose and sent army medical officers to the institute for training.\n\nThe purpose of this experiment, conducted in 1942, was to investigate the minimum requirement for water. Large amounts of shipping were being sunk in the Battle of the Atlantic by German forces and many surviving sailors spent long periods in lifeboats before being rescued. For this reason, it was known as \"the shipwreck experiment\". A key question was how long they could be expected to survive on only the rations available in lifeboats. The volunteers in this study were deprived of fluids for three and a half days and only allowed to eat the kind of dried food stored as emergency supplies in lifeboats such as sea biscuits and chocolate.\n\nOf all the experiments conducted at the institute, the water deprivation experiment was the one most disliked by the volunteers.\n\nWheat extraction rate is the amount of grist that becomes flour in a flour mill (the milling yield). A high extraction rate results in brown flour and brown bread. 100% extraction is called wholemeal flour, 70% extraction results in white bread and flour. This was an issue for wartime Britain because wheat imports were essential to her survival and the higher the extraction rate, the less grain would need to be imported. Less grain meant that fewer ships would be needed to transport it, and ships were being sunk at a prodigious rate by German U-boats.\n\nThe institute was charged in 1942 with looking into the nutritional value of high extraction wheat. As a result of this research a \"national wheatmeal loaf\" of 85% extraction was introduced. It was priced the same as the staple white bread to encourage the public to use it (in this period brown bread was normally considered a speciality bread and was more expensive). The reseearch was particularly looking at the issues of digestibility and calcium absorption.\n\nThere was some objection from nutritionists to this change. It was known that a high extraction, high fibre, diet leads to poor uptake of vitamin D, and hence can lead to rickets. However, the cost in ships and lives was of greater importance during the war than dietary considerations, so long as the effects were not immediately debilitating. The results of the wheat extraction research made a large difference to Britain's war effort. It has been calculated that raising the extraction rate from 75% to 85% saved the equivalent of forty Liberty ships.\n\nOne experiment required that blood circulation to limbs was cut off with elastic bands. Others included infection with malaria and investigations into surgical shock.\n\n"}
{"id": "17749468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17749468", "title": "Toronto Public Health", "text": "Toronto Public Health\n\nToronto Public Health is a city department of the City of Toronto and is responsible for promoting public health policy in the city.\n\nThe current department was formed in 1998, replacing the public health units of the former cities of Toronto, York, North York, Scarborough and Etobicoke and the borough of East York.\n\nThe department has an approximate budget of $182,672,000 (2004).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23913500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23913500", "title": "Vibratese", "text": "Vibratese\n\nVibratese is a method of communication through touch. It was developed by F. A. Geldard, 1957. It is a tactile system based on both practical considerations and on results from a set of controlled psychophysical experiments. Vibratese was composed of 45 basic elements, the tactile equivalent of numerals and letters. The entire English alphabet and numerals 0 to 9 could be communicated this way. Geldard reported that with proper training, rates of more than 35 words per minute were possible for reading. , Vibratese is no longer in use, with little literature available on the subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "38233640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38233640", "title": "WASH United", "text": "WASH United\n\nWASH (WAter, Sanitation and Hygiene) United is a non-profit organization that works to end the global sanitation and hygiene crisis by making toilets and good hygiene \"cool\" and \"sexy\".\n\nWhat differentiates WASH United from other organizations working in the WASH sector is that WASH United doesn’t use health-based messaging, but rather harnesses the power of fun, interactive gaming experiences, super star role models and strictly aspirational communication to change attitudes and behaviors on these neglected issues.\n\nWASH United currently works in 8 countries in Sub-Saharan Africa and in India. In Africa, WASH United works in Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Mali, Tanzania and Uganda. WASH United is registered as a non-profit limited liability company (gGmbH) in Berlin,Germany, where the organization’s international headquarters are. WASH United just opened a regional office.\n\nWASH United was founded in 2010 by Thorsten Kiefer. Kiefer, a devoted soccer fan, helped WASH gain attention at the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa by coordinating promotions featuring soccer stars playing in the World Cup. Now, WASH United is still growing its ties with star athletes, as well as politicians, to help promote the club and achieve its goals. In 2012 they received the Sport for Health Award at the Beyond Sport Awards.\n\nAccess to safe and clean drinking water is a crisis that is both severe and receives an alarmingly small amount of attention by international media. In 2010, the lack of access to drinking water and toilets caused more deaths in children than HIV/AIDS, measles, and malaria combined. WASH United has the following goals:\n\n1. To give toilets a \"sexy\" image. In hopes to increase attention around this issue, WASH United aims to inflict an image that promotes desirability for toilets - an item is seemingly commonplace and standard in developed countries.\n\n2. To promote hand-washing. Many diseases and illnesses can be prevented by washing hands with soap and water, especially when handling food. Similarly, they wish to promote menstrual hygiene management, a topic that is highly taboo in certain cultures.\n\n3. To encourage acknowledgement that safe drinking water and sanitization is a human right on an international level.\n\nWASH United uses the following tactics to promote clean drinking water and hygiene:\n\n1. Using fun and interactive games. People are more prone to remembering things when they can associate them with memorable activities such as storytelling and games.\n\n2. Using sports stars and celebrities to gain attention and utilize their role model statuses to inspire people about this topic.\n\n3. Focusing on the positives and why toilets and clean water are appealing, rather than the damaging impacts that come from a lack of these necessities.\n\nCurrently, WASH United uses television, radio, and print media to communicate with its audience internationally. Moving forward, they plan to promote clean water and healthy hygiene habits through even more types of media as well as increase their presence in the types currently being utilized. Moving forward, WASH United plans to expand their organization by recruiting more star spokespeople and expanding both their relief efforts and media presence to more countries.\n\n"}
