{"id": "44902220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44902220", "title": "A Grammar of the Dialect of the Bolton Area", "text": "A Grammar of the Dialect of the Bolton Area\n\nA Grammar of the Dialect of the Bolton Area is a two-part dialectological book written by Graham Shorrocks, a professor at the Memorial University of Newfoundland, based on a series of research projects in the 1970s and 1980s. From 1972 to 1974 Shorrocks did fieldwork in his hometown of Farnworth supported by a grant from the University of Sheffield. He later undertook further fieldwork in other parts of the Bolton metropolitan borough in the 1980s. Part 1 was published in 1998, and Part 2 in 1999. The book argues that grammatical variation amongst dialects of English has been underestimated. In the preface, the author says that the account of the morphology and syntax is \"probably more detailed than the grammatical component in any other monograph devoted to a British English dialect\".\n\nShorrocks's technique was to get to know his informants well so that they would speak to him naturally, as they would with their friends and families. As he recorded his conversations, he felt that this was necessary to avoid their modifying their speech under the pressure of being recorded. Shorrocks was very critical of sociolinguistic techniques, which he felt relied excessively on questionnaires and were particularly unsuitable for revealing the grammatical features that can only be recorded in flowing speech. Shorrocks concluded that the extent of decline in traditional dialect presented by many sociolinguists was exaggerated, and that all the grammatical features of the Bolton dialect found by the early dialectologist Joseph Wright were still present at the time of his research in addition to a few features that Wright had not recorded.\n\nShorrocks stated that the dialect of Bolton, and Greater Manchester in general, has been highly stigmatised.\n\nThe concept of a \"Northern Regional Standard\", which Shorrocks attributes to the Sheffield University dialectologist John Widdowson, is used to describe modifications made by dialect speakers when not speaking with acquaintances. Shorrocks notes that the number of speakers of Received Pronunciation in the Bolton area is very small, which restricts its influence on the base dialect.\n\nThe phonemes described for the Bolton dialect are shown in the table below. is shown as a marginal phoneme in the dialect, used only when stressing words or attempting to modify speech towards a standard form, and is shown as a phoneme that existed in the dialect until the mid-20th century as a pronunciation of the sequence \"gh\". There is no phoneme in the Bolton dialect, although occurs as an allophone of before .\n\n"}
{"id": "6190251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6190251", "title": "Argument map", "text": "Argument map\n\nIn informal logic and philosophy, an argument map or argument diagram is a visual representation of the structure of an argument. An argument map typically includes the key components of the argument, traditionally called the \"conclusion\" and the \"premises\", also called \"contention\" and \"reasons\". Argument maps can also show co-premises, objections, counterarguments, rebuttals, and lemmas. There are different styles of argument map but they are often functionally equivalent and represent an argument's individual claims and the relationships between them.\n\nArgument maps are commonly used in the context of teaching and applying critical thinking. The purpose of mapping is to uncover the logical structure of arguments, identify unstated assumptions, evaluate the support an argument offers for a conclusion, and aid understanding of debates. Argument maps are often designed to support deliberation of issues, ideas and arguments in wicked problems.\n\nAn argument map is not to be confused with a concept map or a mind map, two other kinds of node–link diagram which have different constraints on nodes and links.\n\nA number of different kinds of argument map have been proposed but the most common, which Chris Reed and Glenn Rowe called the \"standard diagram\", consists of a tree structure with each of the reasons leading to the conclusion. There is no consensus as to whether the conclusion should be at the top of the tree with the reasons leading up to it or whether it should be at the bottom with the reasons leading down to it. Another variation diagrams an argument from left to right.\n\nAccording to Doug Walton and colleagues, an argument map has two basic components: \"One component is a set of circled numbers arrayed as points. Each number represents a proposition (premise or conclusion) in the argument being diagrammed. The other component is a set of lines or arrows joining the points. Each line (arrow) represents an inference. The whole network of points and lines represents a kind of overview of the reasoning in the given argument...\" With the introduction of software for producing argument maps, it has become common for argument maps to consist of boxes containing the actual propositions rather than numbers referencing those propositions.\n\nThere is disagreement on the terminology to be used when describing argument maps, but the \"standard diagram\" contains the following structures:\n\nDependent premises or co-premises, where at least one of the joined premises requires another premise before it can give support to the conclusion: An argument with this structure has been called a \"linked\" argument.\n\nIndependent premises, where the premise can support the conclusion on its own: Although independent premises may jointly make the conclusion more convincing, this is to be distinguished from situations where a premise gives no support unless it is joined to another premise. Where several premises or groups of premises lead to a final conclusion the argument might be described as \"convergent\". This is distinguished from a \"divergent\" argument where a single premise might be used to support two separate conclusions.\n\nIntermediate conclusions or sub-conclusions, where a claim is supported by another claim that is used in turn to support some further claim, i.e. the final conclusion or another intermediate conclusion: In the following diagram, statement 4 is an intermediate conclusion in that it is a conclusion in relation to statement 5 but is a premise in relation to the final conclusion, i.e. statement 1. An argument with this structure is sometimes called a \"complex\" argument. If there is a single chain of claims containing at least one intermediate conclusion, the argument is sometimes described as a \"serial\" argument or a \"chain\" argument.\n\nEach of these structures can be represented by the equivalent \"box and line\" approach to argument maps. In the following diagram, the \"contention\" is shown at the top, and the boxes linked to it represent supporting \"reasons\", which comprise one or more \"premises\". The green arrow indicates that the two \"reasons\" support the \"contention\":\n\nArgument maps can also represent counterarguments. In the following diagram, the two \"objections\" weaken the \"contention\", while the \"reasons\" support the \"premise\" of the objection:\n\nA written text can be transformed into an argument map by following a sequence of steps. Monroe Beardsley's 1950 book \"Practical Logic\" recommended the following procedure:\n\nBeardsley gave the first example of a text being analysed in this way:\n\nBeardsley said that the conclusion in this example is statement ②. Statement ④ needs to be rewritten as a declarative sentence, e.g. \"Academic monstrosities [were] produced by the official Nazi painters.\" Statement ① points out that the conclusion isn't accepted by everyone, but statement ① is omitted from the diagram because it doesn't support the conclusion. Beardsley said that the logical relation between statement ③ and statement ④ is unclear, but he proposed to diagram statement ④ as supporting statement ③.\n\nMore recently, philosophy professor Maralee Harrell recommended the following procedure:\n\nArgument maps are useful not only for representing and analyzing existing writings, but also for thinking through issues as part of a problem-structuring process or writing process. The use of such argument analysis for thinking through issues has been called \"reflective argumentation\".\n\nAn argument map, unlike a decision tree, does not tell how to make a decision, but the process of choosing a coherent position (or reflective equilibrium) based on the structure of an argument map can be represented as a decision tree.\n\nIn the \"Elements of Logic\", which was published in 1826 and issued in many subsequent editions, Archbishop Richard Whately gave probably the first form of an argument map, introducing it with the suggestion that \"many students probably will find it a very clear and convenient mode of exhibiting the logical analysis of the course of argument, to draw it out in the form of a Tree, or Logical Division\".\n\nHowever, the technique did not become widely used, possibly because for complex arguments, it involved much writing and rewriting of the premises.\nLegal philosopher and theorist John Henry Wigmore produced maps of legal arguments using numbered premises in the early 20th century, based in part on the ideas of 19th century philosopher Henry Sidgwick who used lines to indicate relations between terms.\n\nDealing with the failure of formal reduction of informal argumentation, English speaking argumentation theory developed diagrammatic approaches to informal reasoning over a period of fifty years.\n\nMonroe Beardsley proposed a form of argument diagram in 1950. His method of marking up an argument and representing its components with linked numbers became a standard and is still widely used. He also introduced terminology that is still current describing \"convergent\", \"divergent\" and \"serial\" arguments.\n\nStephen Toulmin, in his groundbreaking and influential 1958 book \"The Uses of Argument\", identified several elements to an argument which have been generalized. The Toulmin diagram is widely used in educational critical teaching. Whilst Toulmin eventually had a significant impact on the development of informal logic he had little initial impact and the Beardsley approach to diagramming arguments along with its later developments became the standard approach in this field. Toulmin introduced something that was missing from Beardsley's approach. In Beardsley, \"arrows link reasons and conclusions (but) no support is given to the implication itself between them. There is no theory, in other words, of inference distinguished from logical deduction, the passage is always deemed not controversial and not subject to support and evaluation\". Toulmin introduced the concept of \"warrant\" which \"can be considered as representing the reasons behind the inference, the backing that authorizes the link\".\n\nBeardsley's approach was refined by Stephen N. Thomas, whose 1973 book \"Practical Reasoning In Natural Language\" introduced the term \"linked\" to describe arguments where the premises necessarily worked together to support the conclusion. However, the actual distinction between dependent and independent premises had been made prior to this. The introduction of the linked structure made it possible for argument maps to represent missing or \"hidden\" premises. In addition, Thomas suggested showing reasons both \"for\" and \"against\" a conclusion with the reasons \"against\" being represented by dotted arrows. Thomas introduced the term \"argument diagram\" and defined \"basic reasons\" as those that were not supported by any others in the argument and the \"final conclusion\" as that which was not used to support any further conclusion.\nMichael Scriven further developed the Beardsley-Thomas approach in his 1976 book \"Reasoning\". Whereas Beardsley had said \"At first, write out the statements...after a little practice, refer to the statements by number alone\" Scriven advocated clarifying the meaning of the statements, listing them and then using a tree diagram with numbers to display the structure. Missing premises (unstated assumptions) were to be included and indicated with an alphabetical letter instead of a number to mark them off from the explicit statements. Scriven introduced counterarguments in his diagrams, which Toulmin had defined as rebuttal. This also enabled the diagramming of \"balance of consideration\" arguments.\n\nIn 1998 a series of large-scale argument maps released by Robert E. Horn stimulated widespread interest in argument mapping.\n\nHuman–computer interaction pioneer Douglas Engelbart, in a famous 1962 technical report on intelligence augmentation, envisioned in detail something like argument-mapping software as an integral part of future intelligence-augmenting computer interfaces: \n\nIn the middle to late 1980s, hypertext software applications that supported argument visualization were developed, including NoteCards and gIBIS; the latter generated an on-screen graphical hypertextual map of an issue-based information system, a model of argumentation developed by Werner Kunz and Horst Rittel in the 1970s. In the 1990s, Tim van Gelder and colleagues developed a series of software applications that permitted an argument map's premises to be fully stated and edited in the diagram, rather than in a legend. Van Gelder's first program, Reason!Able, was superseded by two subsequent programs, bCisive and Rationale.\n\nThroughout the 1990s and 2000s, many other software applications were developed for argument visualization. By 2013, more than 60 such software systems existed. One of the differences between these software systems is whether collaboration is supported. Single-user argumentation systems include Convince Me, iLogos, LARGO, Athena, Araucaria, and Carneades; small group argumentation systems include Digalo, QuestMap, Compendium, Belvedere, and AcademicTalk; community argumentation systems include Debategraph and Collaboratorium.\n\nArgument maps have been applied in many areas, but foremost in educational, academic and business settings, including design rationale. Argument maps are also used in forensic science, law, and artificial intelligence. It has also been proposed that argument mapping has a great potential to improve how we understand and execute democracy, in reference to the ongoing evolution of e-democracy.\n\nIt has traditionally been hard to separate teaching critical thinking from the philosophical tradition of teaching logic and method, and most critical thinking textbooks have been written by philosophers. Informal logic textbooks are replete with philosophical examples, but it is unclear whether the approach in such textbooks transfers to non-philosophy students. There appears to be little statistical effect after such classes. Argument mapping, however, has a measurable effect according to many studies. For example, instruction in argument mapping has been shown to improve the critical thinking skills of business students.\n\nThere is empirical evidence that the skills developed in argument-mapping-based critical thinking courses substantially transfer to critical thinking done without argument maps. Alvarez's meta-analysis found that such critical thinking courses produced gains of around 0.70 SD, about twice as much as standard critical-thinking courses. The tests used in the reviewed studies were standard critical-thinking tests.\n\nThe use of argument mapping has occurred within a number of disciplines, such as philosophy, management reporting, military and intelligence analysis, and public debates.\n\n\nThe Argument Interchange Format, AIF, is an international effort to develop a representational mechanism for exchanging argument resources between research groups, tools, and domains using a semantically rich language. AIF-RDF is the extended ontology represented in the Resource Description Framework Schema (RDFS) semantic language. Though AIF is still something of a moving target, it is settling down.\n\nThe Legal Knowledge Interchange Format (LKIF) was developed in the European ESTRELLA project and designed with the goal of becoming a standard for representing and interchanging policy, legislation and cases, including their justificatory arguments, in the legal domain. LKIF builds on and uses the Web Ontology Language (OWL) for representing concepts and includes a reusable basic ontology of legal concepts.\n\n"}
{"id": "9127632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9127632", "title": "Biology", "text": "Biology\n\nBiology is the natural science that studies life and living organisms, including their physical structure, chemical processes, molecular interactions, physiological mechanisms, development and evolution. Despite the complexity of the science, there are certain unifying concepts that consolidate it into a single, coherent field. Biology recognizes the cell as the basic unit of life, genes as the basic unit of heredity, and evolution as the engine that propels the creation and extinction of species. Living organisms are open systems that survive by transforming energy and decreasing their local entropy to maintain a stable and vital condition defined as homeostasis.\n\nSub-disciplines of biology are defined by the research methods employed and the kind of system studied: theoretical biology uses mathematical methods to formulate quantitative models while experimental biology performs empirical experiments to test the validity of proposed theories and understand the mechanisms underlying life and how it appeared and evolved from non-living matter about 4 billion years ago through a gradual increase in the complexity of the system. See branches of biology.\n\nThe term \"biology\" is derived from the Greek word , \"bios\", \"life\" and the suffix , \"-logia\", \"study of.\" The Latin-language form of the term first appeared in 1736 when Swedish scientist Carl Linnaeus (Carl von Linné) used \"biologi\" in his \"Bibliotheca botanica\". It was used again in 1766 in a work entitled \"Philosophiae naturalis sive physicae: tomus III, continens geologian, biologian, phytologian generalis\", by Michael Christoph Hanov, a disciple of Christian Wolff. The first German use, \"Biologie\", was in a 1771 translation of Linnaeus' work. In 1797, Theodor Georg August Roose used the term in the preface of a book, \"Grundzüge der Lehre van der Lebenskraft\". Karl Friedrich Burdach used the term in 1800 in a more restricted sense of the study of human beings from a morphological, physiological and psychological perspective (\"Propädeutik zum Studien der gesammten Heilkunst\"). The term came into its modern usage with the six-volume treatise \"Biologie, oder Philosophie der lebenden Natur\" (1802–22) by Gottfried Reinhold Treviranus, who announced:\n\nAlthough modern biology is a relatively recent development, sciences related to and included within it have been studied since ancient times. Natural philosophy was studied as early as the ancient civilizations of Mesopotamia, Egypt, the Indian subcontinent, and China. However, the origins of modern biology and its approach to the study of nature are most often traced back to ancient Greece. While the formal study of medicine dates back to Hippocrates (ca. 460–370 BC), it was Aristotle (384–322 BC) who contributed most extensively to the development of biology. Especially important are his \"History of Animals\" and other works where he showed naturalist leanings, and later more empirical works that focused on biological causation and the diversity of life. Aristotle's successor at the Lyceum, Theophrastus, wrote a series of books on botany that survived as the most important contribution of antiquity to the plant sciences, even into the Middle Ages.\n\nScholars of the medieval Islamic world who wrote on biology included al-Jahiz (781–869), Al-Dīnawarī (828–896), who wrote on botany, and Rhazes (865–925) who wrote on anatomy and physiology. Medicine was especially well studied by Islamic scholars working in Greek philosopher traditions, while natural history drew heavily on Aristotelian thought, especially in upholding a fixed hierarchy of life.\n\nBiology began to quickly develop and grow with Anton van Leeuwenhoek's dramatic improvement of the microscope. It was then that scholars discovered spermatozoa, bacteria, infusoria and the diversity of microscopic life. Investigations by Jan Swammerdam led to new interest in entomology and helped to develop the basic techniques of microscopic dissection and staining.\n\nAdvances in microscopy also had a profound impact on biological thinking. In the early 19th century, a number of biologists pointed to the central importance of the cell. Then, in 1838, Schleiden and Schwann began promoting the now universal ideas that (1) the basic unit of organisms is the cell and (2) that individual cells have all the characteristics of life, although they opposed the idea that (3) all cells come from the division of other cells. Thanks to the work of Robert Remak and Rudolf Virchow, however, by the 1860s most biologists accepted all three tenets of what came to be known as cell theory.\n\nMeanwhile, taxonomy and classification became the focus of natural historians. Carl Linnaeus published a basic taxonomy for the natural world in 1735 (variations of which have been in use ever since), and in the 1750s introduced scientific names for all his species. Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon, treated species as artificial categories and living forms as malleable—even suggesting the possibility of common descent. Although he was opposed to evolution, Buffon is a key figure in the history of evolutionary thought; his work influenced the evolutionary theories of both Lamarck and Darwin.\n\nSerious evolutionary thinking originated with the works of Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, who was the first to present a coherent theory of evolution. He posited that evolution was the result of environmental stress on properties of animals, meaning that the more frequently and rigorously an organ was used, the more complex and efficient it would become, thus adapting the animal to its environment. Lamarck believed that these acquired traits could then be passed on to the animal's offspring, who would further develop and perfect them. However, it was the British naturalist Charles Darwin, combining the biogeographical approach of Humboldt, the uniformitarian geology of Lyell, Malthus's writings on population growth, and his own morphological expertise and extensive natural observations, who forged a more successful evolutionary theory based on natural selection; similar reasoning and evidence led Alfred Russel Wallace to independently reach the same conclusions. Although it was the subject of controversy (which continues to this day), Darwin's theory quickly spread through the scientific community and soon became a central axiom of the rapidly developing science of biology.\n\nThe discovery of the physical representation of heredity came along with evolutionary principles and population genetics. In the 1940s and early 1950s, experiments pointed to DNA as the component of chromosomes that held the trait-carrying units that had become known as genes. A focus on new kinds of model organisms such as viruses and bacteria, along with the discovery of the double helical structure of DNA in 1953, marked the transition to the era of molecular genetics. From the 1950s to present times, biology has been vastly extended in the molecular domain. The genetic code was cracked by Har Gobind Khorana, Robert W. Holley and Marshall Warren Nirenberg after DNA was understood to contain codons. Finally, the Human Genome Project was launched in 1990 with the goal of mapping the general human genome. This project was essentially completed in 2003, with further analysis still being published. The Human Genome Project was the first step in a globalized effort to incorporate accumulated knowledge of biology into a functional, molecular definition of the human body and the bodies of other organisms.\n\nCell theory states that the cell is the fundamental unit of life, that all living things are composed of one or more cells, and that all cells arise from pre-existing cells through cell division. In multicellular organisms, every cell in the organism's body derives ultimately from a single cell in a fertilized egg. The cell is also considered to be the basic unit in many pathological processes. In addition, the phenomenon of energy flow occurs in cells in processes that are part of the function known as metabolism. Finally, cells contain hereditary information (DNA), which is passed from cell to cell during cell division. Research into the origin of life, abiogenesis, amounts to an attempt to discover the origin of the first cells.\n\nA central organizing concept in biology is that life changes and develops through evolution, and that all life-forms known have a common origin. The theory of evolution postulates that all organisms on the Earth, both living and extinct, have descended from a common ancestor or an ancestral gene pool. This universal common ancestor of all organisms is believed to have appeared about 3.5 billion years ago. Biologists regard the ubiquity of the genetic code as definitive evidence in favor of the theory of universal common descent for all bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes (see: origin of life).\n\nThe term \"evolution\" was introduced into the scientific lexicon by Jean-Baptiste de Lamarck in 1809, and fifty years later Charles Darwin posited a scientific model of natural selection as evolution's driving force. (Alfred Russel Wallace is recognized as the co-discoverer of this concept as he helped research and experiment with the concept of evolution.) Evolution is now used to explain the great variations of life found on Earth.\n\nDarwin theorized that species flourish or die when subjected to the processes of natural selection or selective breeding. Genetic drift was embraced as an additional mechanism of evolutionary development in the modern synthesis of the theory.\n\nThe evolutionary history of the species—which describes the characteristics of the various species from which it descended—together with its genealogical relationship to every other species is known as its phylogeny. Widely varied approaches to biology generate information about phylogeny. These include the comparisons of DNA sequences, a product of molecular biology (more particularly genomics), and comparisons of fossils or other records of ancient organisms, a product of paleontology. Biologists organize and analyze evolutionary relationships through various methods, including phylogenetics, phenetics, and cladistics. (For a summary of major events in the evolution of life as currently understood by biologists, see evolutionary timeline.)\n\nEvolution is relevant to the understanding of the natural history of life forms and to the understanding of the organization of current life forms. But, those organizations can only be understood in the light of how they came to be by way of the process of evolution. Consequently, evolution is central to all fields of biology.\n\nGenes are the primary units of inheritance in all organisms. A gene is a unit of heredity and corresponds to a region of DNA that influences the form or function of an organism in specific ways. All organisms, from bacteria to animals, share the same basic machinery that copies and translates DNA into proteins. Cells transcribe a DNA gene into an RNA version of the gene, and a ribosome then translates the RNA into a sequence of amino acids known as a protein. The translation code from RNA codon to amino acid is the same for most organisms. For example, a sequence of DNA that codes for insulin in humans also codes for insulin when inserted into other organisms, such as plants.\n\nDNA is found as linear chromosomes in eukaryotes, and circular chromosomes in prokaryotes. A chromosome is an organized structure consisting of DNA and histones. The set of chromosomes in a cell and any other hereditary information found in the mitochondria, chloroplasts, or other locations is collectively known as a cell's genome. In eukaryotes, genomic DNA is localized in the cell nucleus, or with small amounts in mitochondria and chloroplasts. In prokaryotes, the DNA is held within an irregularly shaped body in the cytoplasm called the nucleoid. The genetic information in a genome is held within genes, and the complete assemblage of this information in an organism is called its genotype.\n\nHomeostasis is the ability of an open system to regulate its internal environment to maintain stable conditions by means of multiple dynamic equilibrium adjustments that are controlled by interrelated regulation mechanisms. All living organisms, whether unicellular or multicellular, exhibit homeostasis.\n\nTo maintain dynamic equilibrium and effectively carry out certain functions, a system must detect and respond to perturbations. After the detection of a perturbation, a biological system normally responds through negative feedback that stabilize conditions by reducing or increasing the activity of an organ or system. One example is the release of glucagon when sugar levels are too low.\n\nThe survival of a living organism depends on the continuous input of energy. Chemical reactions that are responsible for its structure and function are tuned to extract energy from substances that act as its food and transform them to help form new cells and sustain them. In this process, molecules of chemical substances that constitute food play two roles; first, they contain energy that can be transformed and reused in that organism's biological, chemical reactions; second, food can be transformed into new molecular structures (biomolecules) that are of use to that organism.\n\nThe organisms responsible for the introduction of energy into an ecosystem are known as producers or autotrophs. Nearly all such organisms originally draw their energy from the sun. Plants and other phototrophs use solar energy via a process known as photosynthesis to convert raw materials into organic molecules, such as ATP, whose bonds can be broken to release energy. A few ecosystems, however, depend entirely on energy extracted by chemotrophs from methane, sulfides, or other non-luminal energy sources.\n\nSome of the energy thus captured produces biomass and energy that is available for growth and development of other life forms. The majority of the rest of this biomass and energy are lost as waste molecules and heat. The most important processes for converting the energy trapped in chemical substances into energy useful to sustain life are metabolism and cellular respiration.\n\nMolecular biology is the study of biology at the molecular level. This field overlaps with other areas of biology, particularly those of genetics and biochemistry. Molecular biology is a study of the interactions of the various systems within a cell, including the interrelationships of DNA, RNA, and protein synthesis and how those interactions are regulated.\n\nThe next larger scale, cell biology, studies the structural and physiological properties of cells, including their internal behavior, interactions with other cells, and with their environment. This is done on both the microscopic and molecular levels, for unicellular organisms such as bacteria, as well as the specialized cells of multicellular organisms such as humans. Understanding the structure and function of cells is fundamental to all of the biological sciences. The similarities and differences between cell types are particularly relevant to molecular biology.\n\nAnatomy is a treatment of the macroscopic forms of such structures organs and organ systems.\n\nGenetics is the science of genes, heredity, and the variation of organisms. Genes encode the information needed by cells for the synthesis of proteins, which in turn play a central role in influencing the final phenotype of the organism. Genetics provides research tools used in the investigation of the function of a particular gene, or the analysis of genetic interactions. Within organisms, genetic information is physically represented as chromosomes, within which it is represented by a particular sequence of amino acids in particular DNA molecules.\n\nDevelopmental biology studies the process by which organisms grow and develop. Developmental biology, originated from embryology, studies the genetic control of cell growth, cellular differentiation, and \"cellular morphogenesis,\" which is the process that progressively gives rise to tissues, organs, and anatomy.\nModel organisms for developmental biology include the round worm \"Caenorhabditis elegans,\" the fruit fly \"Drosophila melanogaster,\" the zebrafish \"Danio rerio,\" the mouse \"Mus musculus\", and the weed \"Arabidopsis thaliana\". (A model organism is a species that is extensively studied to understand particular biological phenomena, with the expectation that discoveries made in that organism provide insight into the workings of other organisms.)\n\nPhysiology is the study of the mechanical, physical, and biochemical processes of living organisms function as a whole. The theme of \"structure to function\" is central to biology. Physiological studies have traditionally been divided into plant physiology and animal physiology, but some principles of physiology are universal, no matter what particular organism is being studied. For example, what is learned about the physiology of yeast cells can also apply to human cells. The field of animal physiology extends the tools and methods of human physiology to non-human species. Plant physiology borrows techniques from both research fields.\n\nPhysiology is the study the interaction of how, for example, the nervous, immune, endocrine, respiratory, and circulatory systems, function and interact. The study of these systems is shared with such medically oriented disciplines as neurology and immunology.\n\nEvolutionary research is concerned with the origin and descent of species, and their change over time. It employs scientists from many taxonomically oriented disciplines, for example, those with special training in particular organisms such as mammalogy, ornithology, botany, or herpetology, but are of use in answering more general questions about evolution.\n\nEvolutionary biology is partly based on paleontology, which uses the fossil record to answer questions about the mode and tempo of evolution, and partly on the developments in areas such as population genetics. In the 1980s, developmental biology re-entered evolutionary biology after its initial exclusion from the modern synthesis through the study of evolutionary developmental biology. Phylogenetics, systematics, and taxonomy are related fields often considered part of evolutionary biology.\n\nMultiple speciation events create a tree structured system of relationships between species. The role of systematics is to study these relationships and thus the differences and similarities between species and groups of species.\nHowever, systematics was an active field of research long before evolutionary thinking was common.\n\nTraditionally, living things have been divided into five kingdoms: Monera; Protista; Fungi; Plantae; Animalia. However, many scientists now consider this five-kingdom system outdated. Modern alternative classification systems generally begin with the three-domain system: Archaea (originally Archaebacteria); Bacteria (originally Eubacteria) and Eukaryota (including protists, fungi, plants, and animals) These domains reflect whether the cells have nuclei or not, as well as differences in the chemical composition of key biomolecules such as ribosomes.\n\nFurther, each kingdom is broken down recursively until each species is separately classified. The order is:\nDomain; Kingdom; Phylum; Class; Order; Family; Genus; Species.\n\nOutside of these categories, there are obligate intracellular parasites that are \"on the edge of life\" in terms of metabolic activity, meaning that many scientists do not actually classify such structures as alive, due to their lack of at least one or more of the fundamental functions or characteristics that define life. They are classified as viruses, viroids, prions, or satellites.\n\nThe scientific name of an organism is generated from its genus and species. For example, humans are listed as \"Homo sapiens\". \"Homo\" is the genus, and \"sapiens\" the species. When writing the scientific name of an organism, it is proper to capitalize the first letter in the genus and put all of the species in lowercase. Additionally, the entire term may be italicized or underlined.\n\nThe dominant classification system is called the Linnaean taxonomy. It includes ranks and binomial nomenclature. How organisms are named is governed by international agreements such as the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants (ICN), the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature (ICZN), and the International Code of Nomenclature of Bacteria (ICNB). The classification of viruses, viroids, prions, and all other sub-viral agents that demonstrate biological characteristics is conducted by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) and is known as the International Code of Viral Classification and Nomenclature (ICVCN). However, several other viral classification systems do exist.\n\nA merging draft, BioCode, was published in 1997 in an attempt to standardize nomenclature in these three areas, but has yet to be formally adopted. The BioCode draft has received little attention since 1997; its originally planned implementation date of January 1, 2000, has passed unnoticed. A revised BioCode that, instead of replacing the existing codes, would provide a unified context for them, was proposed in 2011. However, the International Botanical Congress of 2011 declined to consider the BioCode proposal. The ICVCN remains outside the BioCode, which does not include viral classification.\n\nEcology is the study of the distribution and abundance of living organisms, the interaction between them and their environment. An organism shares an environment that includes other organisms and biotic factors as well as local abiotic factors (non-living) such as climate and ecology. One reason that biological systems can be difficult to study is that so many different interactions with other organisms and the environment are possible, even on small scales. A microscopic bacterium responding to a local sugar gradient is responding to its environment as much as a lion searching for food in the African savanna. For any species, behaviors can be co-operative, competitive, parasitic, or symbiotic. Matters become more complex when two or more species interact in an ecosystem.\n\nEcological systems are studied at several different levels, from the scale of the ecology of individual organisms, to those of populations, to the ecosystems and finally the biosphere. The term population biology is often used interchangeably with population ecology, although \"population biology\" is more frequently used in the case of diseases, viruses, and microbes, while the term population ecology is more commonly applied to the study of plants and animals. Ecology draws on many subdisciplines.\n\nEthology is the study of animal behavior (particularly that of social animals such as primates and canids), and is sometimes considered a branch of zoology. Ethologists have been particularly concerned with the evolution of behavior and the understanding of behavior in terms of the theory of natural selection. In one sense, the first modern ethologist was Charles Darwin, whose book, \"The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals,\" influenced many ethologists to come.\n\nBiogeography studies the spatial distribution of organisms on the Earth, focusing on such topics as plate tectonics, climate change, dispersal and migration, and cladistics.\n\nDespite the profound advances made over recent decades in our understanding of life's fundamental processes, some basic problems have remained unresolved. One of the major unresolved problems in biology is the primary adaptive function of sex, and particularly its key processes in eukaryotes of meiosis and homologous recombination. One view is that sex evolved primarily as an adaptation that promoted increased genetic diversity (see references e.g.). An alternative view is that sex is an adaptation for promoting accurate DNA repair in germ-line DNA, and that increased genetic diversity is primarily a byproduct that may be useful in the long run. (See also Evolution of sexual reproduction).\n\nAnother basic unresolved problem in biology is the biologic basis of aging. At present, there is no consensus view on the underlying cause of aging. Various competing theories are outlined in Ageing Theories.\n\nThese are the main branches of biology:\nFor a more detailed list, see outline of biology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "501694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=501694", "title": "Bundeli language", "text": "Bundeli language\n\nBundeli (Devanagari: बुन्देली or बुंदेली; or Bundelkhandi, is a Indo-Aryan language spoken in the Bundelkhand region of central India. It belongs to the Central Indo-Ayran languages and is part of the Western Hindi subgroup.\n\nA descendant of the Sauraseni Apabhramsha language, Bundeli was classified under Western Hindi by George Abraham Grierson in his Linguistic Survey of India.. Bundeli is also closely related to Braj Bhasha, which was the foremost literary language in central India until the nineteenth century.\n\nLike many other Indo-Aryan languages, Bundeli has often been subject to a designation as a dialect, instead of a language. Furthermore, as is the case with other Hindi languages, Bundeli speakers have been conflated with those of Standard Hindi in censuses.\n\nGrierson divided Bundeli into four dialect groups:\n\n\nThe Bundelkhand region comprises regions of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Bundeli is spoken in the Chattarpur,Rath, Panna, Tikamgarh, Banda, Hamirpur, Jalaun, Jhansi, Gwalior, Vidisha, Bhopal, Sagar, Damoh, Ashoknagar, Jabalpur, Lalitpur, Chitrakoot, Mahoba districts.\n\nIn the past Bundeli was used in government correspondences, messages, invoices, gazette and friendship treaties. Early examples of Bundelkhandi literature are the verses of Bhaddari as well as versions of the Alha-Khand epic. It is still preserved by bards in the Banaphari region. The epic is about heroes lived in the 12th century AD. The poed Chand Bardai, wrote this epic based on King Prithiviraj's wars with state of Mahoba. Many literary works in Bundheli were produced during the reign of Emperor Akbar. Notable figures are the poet Kesab Das of the 16th century, while Padmakar Bhatt and Prajnes wrote several works during the 19th century. Prannath and Lal Kabi, produced many works in Bundheli language at the court of Chhattarsal of Panna.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256739", "title": "C. H. Mohammed Koya", "text": "C. H. Mohammed Koya\n\nC.H. Mohammed Koya (15 July 1927 – 28 September 1983) was an Indian politician who served as the tenth Chief Minister of Kerala from 12 October to 1 December 1979. He was the leader of the Indian Union Muslim League.\n\nHe experienced his first taste of politics right from his high school. He was actively involved with the IUML. In his early years, he served a short term in the Kurumpranad District Muslim League committee and later in the Municipal Office in Calicut.\n\nIn 1951, he was elected to the National Executive of the IUML and shortly afterwards, was elected the Councilor of Calicut Municipality. C.H.Mohammed Koya defeated K.P.Kuttikrishnan Nair (\"Kuttiettan\" – as he was popularly known) of the Indian National Congress. The latter had earlier defeated two of the most popular politicians in Kerala, E.M.S. Namboodiripad and Seethi Sahib earning him the nickname the \"Giant-Killer\" from Jawaharlal Nehru. Kuttiettan and his best friend C.K.Govindan Nair (CKG) were the Congress leaders who had even outrightly rejected Nehru's mandates regarding candidature in Kerala, openly holding that as the State Congress Committee leaders, they knew whom to field and they do not need advice from the AICC (the High Command).\n\nHis chief mentor, both in his personal life and political career was Syed Abdur Rahman Bafaqi Thangal, to whom he was indebted for all his achievements.\n\nMohammed Koya was elected into the Kerala Legislative Assembly from the Tanur constituency in 1957 and again in 1960. On 9 June 1961 he became the Speaker of the Kerala Legislative Assembly after the sudden demise of K.M.Seethi Sahib. Despite being one of the youngest members in the Assembly, he was known for his charisma and the flair with which he discharged his duties.\n\nWhen Muslim league quit the political alliance at State level, Mohammed Koya resigned Speakership and contested the ensuing Parliamentary Poll successfully from the Calicut constituency . Again, in the State Assembly elections held in 1967, he won by a vast majority, contesting from Mankada constituency. He was the Education Minister in the cabinet headed by Shri E.M.S. Namboodiripad. He continued to retain his Education portfolio in succeeding ministries headed by C. Achutha Menon, K. Karunakaran, A.K. Antony till the Ninth ministry headed by P.K. Vasudevan Nair. As Education minister he was instrumental in formulating many plans that has helped Kerala reach the forefront in the education sector in India. \n\nOn 12 October 1979 C.H.Mohammed Koya became the Chief Minister of Kerala and his term continued to 1 December 1979. He was the shortest serving Chief Minister of Kerala. He was the Deputy Chief Minister in the next United Democratic Front(UDF) ministry headed by K.Karunakaran. Continuing in the seat even after the ministry was re-constituted in 1982, after the General Election, Shri. Koya stayed there till his untimely demise in the ensuing year.\n\nKoya died on 28 September 1983 at the Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad due to a massive cerebral haemorrhage. He reached Hyderabad for attending a public function, and stayed in the veteran actor-cum-then Chief Minister N. T. Rama Rao's home. Despite being a heavy diabetic, he consumed high amount of payasam, and thus it led to the massive haemorrhage which finally killed him. His dead body was taken back to Kerala, and was buried with full state honours. He was then survived by his mother, wife, and three children – two daughters and one son (M. K. Muneer). Now, only the children are left.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22085309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22085309", "title": "Central Maluku languages", "text": "Central Maluku languages\n\nThe Central Maluku languages are a putative group of fifty Austronesian languages (geographically Central–Eastern Malayo-Polynesian languages) spoken principally on the Seram, Buru, Ambon, Kei, and the Sula Islands. None of the languages have as many as fifty thousand speakers, and several are extinct.\n\nThe traditional components of Central Maluku are the Sula, Buru, and East Central Maluku languages, plus the Ambelau isolate.\n\nThe following classification of the Central Maluku languages below is from Collins (1983:20, 22) and (1986).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35249707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35249707", "title": "Choyo language", "text": "Choyo language\n\nQueyu (Choyo, Choyu) is a poorly attested Qiangic language of Yajiang County and Xinlong County, Sichuan, as well as Tibet. It is similar with and shares a name with Zhaba, but the two languages are distinct from each other.\n\nThe four dialects of Choyo are those of:\n\nSuzuki & Wangmo (2016) consider the Lhagang Choyu language to be similar to but not part of Choyu proper, which consists of the four dialects listed above.\n\nHuang & Dai (1992) document the Queyu dialect spoken in Youlaxi Township 尤拉西乡, Xinlong County, Ganzi Prefecture, Sichuan.\n\nLhagang Choyu () is a Qiangic language similar to Choyu recently described by Suzuki & Wangmo (2018). It is spoken in Tage [Thabs-mkhas] Hamlet, southwestern Tagong [lHa-sgang] Town, Kangding [Dar-mdo] Municipality, Sichuan Province, China. It used to be spoken in Xiya 西雅 Hamlet of the same township (Suzuki & Wangmo 2016:63). Lhagang Choyu is an endangered language with about 100 speakers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932657", "title": "Client politics", "text": "Client politics\n\nClient politics is the type of politics when an organized minority or interest group benefits at the expense of the public. Client politics may have a strong interaction with the dynamics of identity politics. \n\nThis is particularly common in a pluralist system, such as in the United States, where minorities can have considerable power shaping public policy. The opposite of client politics is 'entrepreneurial' politics, or conviction politics.\n\nAn example of this is tariffs on imported goods in order to keep prices high. The public is largely unaware and/or indifferent to a slight increase in the prices of goods while manufacturers are dependent and very aware of the subsidizing effect of tariffs on competing products. Thus, local manufacturers will most likely strive to maintain tariffs and may succeed quite often.\n\nAnother example with farmers is the common use of potentially harmful pesticides. Due to the sheer amount of pesticides on the market and the difficulty on testing each one, there lacks conclusive evidence that many of the pesticides in use would harm the environment, leading to a lack of public consensus of what to do. Farmers, on the other hand, are extremely sensitive to the benefits that such chemicals have on crop yield and will organize to keep pesticides available for use.\n\nMost pork barrel legislation would be considered to be client politics.\n"}
{"id": "637373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=637373", "title": "Common stock", "text": "Common stock\n\nCommon stock is a form of corporate equity ownership, a type of security. The terms voting share and ordinary share are also used frequently in other parts of the world; \"common stock\" being primarily used in the United States. They are known as Equity shares or Ordinary shares in the UK and other Commonwealth realms. This type of share gives the stockholder the right to share in the profits of the company, and to vote on matters of corporate policy and the composition of the members of the board of directors.\n\nIt is called \"common\" to distinguish it from preferred stock. If both types of stock exist, common/equity stockholders usually cannot be paid dividends until all preferred/preference stock dividends are paid in full; it is possible to have common stock that has dividends that are paid alongside the preferred stock.\n\nIn the event of bankruptcy, common stock investors receive any remaining funds after bondholders, creditors (including employees), and preferred stockholders are paid. As such, common stock investors often receive nothing after a liquidation bankruptcy Chapter 7.\n\nCommon stockholders can also earn money through capital appreciation. Common shares may perform better than preferred shares or bonds over time, in part to accommodate the increased risk.\n\nShareholder rights are more conceptual than technical or factual. Their most common source is in the statutory and case law of the jurisdiction in which the company was formed. Information about what people think of as shareholder rights can also be found in the corporate charter and governance documents, but companies do not actually have documentation outlining specific \"Shareholder Rights.\" Some shareholders elect to enter into shareholder agreements that create new rights among the shareholders, and it is common for the company to be a party to that agreement. \n\nSome common stock shares have voting rights on certain matters, such as electing the board of directors. However, in the United States, a company can have both a \"voting\" and \"non-voting\" series of common stock, as with preferred stock, but not in countries which have laws against multiple voting and non-voting shares\n\nHypothetically speaking, holders of voting common stock can influence the corporation through votes on establishing corporate objectives and policy, stock splits, and electing the company's board of directors. In practice, it's questionable whether or not such actions can be organized or ruled in their favor. Some shareholders, including holders of common stock, also receive preemptive rights, which enable them to retain their proportional ownership in a company if it issues additional stock or other securities.\nThere is no fixed dividend paid out to common/equity stockholders and so their returns are uncertain, contingent on earnings, company reinvestment, and efficiency of the market to value and sell stock.\n\nCommon/Equity stock is classified to differentiate it from preferred stock. Each is considered a \"class\" of stock, with different series of each issued from time to time such as Series B Preferred Stock. Nevertheless, using \"Class B Common Stock\" is a common label for a super-voting series of common stock.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2110355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2110355", "title": "Commutation (law)", "text": "Commutation (law)\n\nIn law, a commutation is the substitution of a lesser penalty for that given after a conviction for a crime. The penalty can be lessened in severity, in duration, or both. Unlike most pardons by government and overturnings by the court (a full overturning is equal to an acquittal), a commutation does not affect the status of a defendant's underlying criminal conviction.\n\nAlthough the concept of commutation may be used to broadly describe the substitution of a lesser criminal penalty for the original sentence, some jurisdictions have historically used the term only for the substitution of a sentence of a different character than was originally imposed by the court. For example, the substitution of a sentence of parole for the original sentence of incarceration. A jurisdiction that uses that definition of commutation would use another term, such as a remission, to describe a reduction of a penalty that does not change its character.\n\nA commutation does not reverse a conviction and the recipient of a commutation remains guilty in accordance with the original conviction. For example, someone convicted of capital murder may have their sentence of death commuted to life imprisonment, a lessening of the punishment that does not affect the underlying criminal conviction, as may occur on a discretionary basis or following upon a change in the law or judicial ruling that limits or eliminates the death penalty.\n\nIn some jurisdictions a commutation of sentence may be conditional, meaning that the convicted person may be required to abide by specified conditions or may lose the benefit of the commutation. The conditions must be lawful and reasonable, and will typically expire when the convicted completes any remaining portion of his or her sentence. For example, the pardon may be conditioned upon the person's being a law-abiding citizen, such that if the beneficiary of the commutation commits a new crime before the condition expires the original sentence may be restored.\n"}
{"id": "43574082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43574082", "title": "Daigou", "text": "Daigou\n\nDaigou (Chinese: 代购 dàigòu (); also 海外代购 hǎiwài dàigòu), Overseas personal shopper\nis a channel of commerce in which a person outside of China purchases commodities (mainly luxury goods but also groceries) for a customer in mainland China, \nsince prices for luxury goods can be 30 to 40 percent higher in China than abroad. \nThe phrase means \"buying on behalf of\". \n\"Daigou\" sales across sectors total $15 billion annually. \nIn 2014 the value of the \"daigou\" business just in luxury goods increased from CN¥55 billion to CN¥75 billion yuan (USD $8.8 billion to $12 billion).\n\n\"Daigou\" purchases are often from luxury brand boutiques in major fashion cities like Paris, London, New York City, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul. Some \"daigou\" operators use Weibo and WeChat to communicate with their clients. \nThe large demand for \"daigou\" service is due to concern over unsafe products, especially food safety problems, \nand China's high import tariffs on luxury goods. \nSome \"daigou\" service providers intentionally sell counterfeit made-in-China products that have been altered to appear purchased abroad. \nA 2015 survey of Chinese online luxury shoppers found that 35% have used \"daigou\" to purchase luxury goods online, while only 7% used the website of the brand they are buying, or think they are buying.\nApproximately 80% of Chinese luxury purchases are made abroad.\nAsian-American sales associates at Macy's Herald Square sued Macy's for racial discrimination in September 2017, alleging that store managers instructed sales associates not to sell more than one unit to any single Asian customer, and that they were fired when they spoke up about the alleged discrimination.\n\nThe daigou business is thriving in Australia and the government has also shown its support to recognize the job-creating potential of this grey industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16025799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16025799", "title": "Desktop video", "text": "Desktop video\n\nDesktop video refers to a phenomenon lasting from the mid-1980s to the early 1990s when the graphics capabilities of personal computers such as Commodore's Amiga, the Apple Macintosh II and specially-upgraded IBM PC compatibles had advanced to the point where individuals and local broadcasters could use them for analog non-linear editing (NLE) and vision mixing in video production. Despite the use of computers, desktop video should not be confused with digital video since the video data remained analog. Full-screen, full-motion video's vast storage requirements meant that the promise of digital encoding would not be realized on desktop computers for at least another decade.\n\nThere were multiple models of genlock cards available to synchronise the content; the Newtek Video Toaster was commonly used in Amiga and PC systems, while Mac systems had the SuperMac Video Spigot and Radius VideoVision cards. Apple later introduced the Macintosh Quadra 840AV and Centris 660AV systems to specifically address this market.\n\nDesktop video was a parallel development to desktop publishing and enabled many small production houses and local TV stations to produce their own original content for the first time. Along with the advent of public access cable channels, desktop video meant that television advertising became affordable for local businesses such as real estate agents, contractors and auto dealers for the first time. As with the phrase \"desktop publishing\", use of the term died out as the technologies to which it referred become the norm for any kind of video production.\n\n"}
{"id": "4636830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4636830", "title": "Elemental cost planning", "text": "Elemental cost planning\n\nElemental cost planning is a system of Cost planning and Cost control, typically for buildings, which enables the cost of a scheme to be monitored during design development.\n\n1951 saw the publication of the Ministry of Education Building Bulletin No 4 which essentially introduced the concept of elemental cost planning to the UK construction industry. Its Author was James Nisbet. The concept has been refined and developed over more than 50 years in the UK by BCIS (the Building Cost Information Service of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors).\n\nElemental Cost Planning relies upon the adoption of a Standard Form of Cost Analysis for buildings which allows costs to be compared on a common format and forms the basis of the benchmarking analysis central to the concept of Elemental Cost Plans.\n\nIt should :-\n\nElemental cost planning is often referred to as 'designing to a cost' or 'target cost planning' since a cost limit is fixed for the scheme and the architect must then prepare a design not to exceed this cost.\n\n"}
{"id": "9454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9454", "title": "Establishing shot", "text": "Establishing shot\n\nAn establishing shot in filmmaking and television production sets up, or establishes the context for a scene by showing the relationship between its important figures and objects. It is generally a long or extreme-long shot at the beginning of a scene indicating where, and sometimes when, the remainder of the scene takes place.\n\nEstablishing shots were more common during the classical era of filmmaking than they are now. Today's filmmakers tend to skip the establishing shot in order to move the scene along more quickly, or merely mention the setting in on-screen text (as is done in the \"Law & Order\" franchise). In addition, the expositional nature of the shot (as described above) may be unsuitable to scenes in mysteries, where details are intentionally obscured or left out.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19206382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19206382", "title": "Europeanisation of law", "text": "Europeanisation of law\n\nIn the context of European integration, Europeanisation of law may be interpreted as\n\nAccording to Professor Jacques Ziller the Europeanisation of law has three main consequences: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2439915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2439915", "title": "Fixed-Mobile Convergence Alliance", "text": "Fixed-Mobile Convergence Alliance\n\nThe Fixed-Mobile Convergence Alliance, formed in mid-2004, was a global non-profit organisation for improving products for providing convergence between fixed and mobile networks. The FMCA was incorporated as a not-for-profit association under New York law in August 2006. The Alliance had a membership base of 20 leading global telecom operators, most of which were integrated telecom operators owning both fixed and mobile networks. The included vendor affiliation programme made the operators able to work closely with the associate members, who were all telecommunication vendors.\n\nThe alliance was founded by six companies: British Telecom, NTT, Rogers Wireless, Brasil Telecom, Korea Telecom and Swisscom. The purpose of this alliance was to encourage seamless integration of mobile and fixed telephone services (Technological convergence).\n\nThe member operators had a customer base of over 850 million customers and collaborated with member vendors towards accelerated development and availability of Convergence products and services in areas such as devices, access points and home gateways, roaming and innovative applications.\n\nIn order to accomplish its goals, the FMCA developed close relationships with leading Standards Development, Specification and Certification Organisations (SDO/Fora), including the Wi-Fi Alliance, Wireless Broadband Alliance, Home Gateway Initiative and 3GPP. The FMCA actively contributed towards the delivery of existing and emerging standards that were relevant to FMCA product and service requirements. The FMCA did not aim to create standards but rather to accelerate the adoption of the Convergence technologies by encouraging consistency across product and equipment standards.\n\nThe FMCA was disbanded in March 2010, allegedly because of lack of demand for its services.\n"}
{"id": "4796377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4796377", "title": "Félix Morisseau-Leroy", "text": "Félix Morisseau-Leroy\n\nFélix Morisseau-Leroy (13 March 1912 – 5 September 1998), was a Haitian writer who wrote in Haitian Creole for poetry and plays, the first significant writer to do so. By 1961 he succeeded in having Creole recognized as an official language of Haiti, after expanding its teaching in schools and use in creative literature. Morisseau also published works on French, Haitian Creole and Haitian French literature. He worked internationally, encouraging the development of national literature in post-colonial Ghana and Senegal. In 1981 he settled in Miami, Florida, where he was influential in uniting the Haitian community around Creole and encouraged its study in academia.\n\nBorn in Grand Gosier in 1912 to an educated, well-to-do mulatto family, Morisseau studied in nearby Jacmel, where he was educated in French and English. There he met his future wife Renée, who admired his skills as a horseman.\n\nMorisseau-Leroy married Renée in Jacmel, and always said she inspired his poetry. They had two sons and a daughter.\n\nAfter returning from the US to Haiti, he taught in the capital Port-au-Prince. He began to pay more attention to the Creole of the streets and to think of its power as a written language to unite the country. At that time, French was used by the educated classes, and Creole was the language of the common people. \nMorisseau-Leroy taught literature and theater, and also worked as a writer and journalist. He was appointed to political offices in government, including director in the Haitian Ministry of Public Instruction and General Director of National Education.\n\nKnown informally as \"Moriso\", he was a father of the Creole Renaissance. He promoted the movement to stimulate use of Haitian Creole (or Kreyòl) language and establish its legitimacy for creative use in literature and culture. As this was the only language of the majority of the people, who were mostly rural, Morisseau believed strongly in using Creole as a means of uniting the country. Morisseau translated the classical Greek tragedy \"Antigone\" into Creole as \"Wa Kreyon\", at the same time adapting the characters and context for Haitian culture, for instance, featuring a Vodoun priest.\n\nThe rise of Papa Doc Duvalier's autocratic regime shut down many of the most promising writers, as he was threatened by free expression. According to one story, Duvalier sent armed forces to escort Morisseau to the airport and force him into exile because he was offended by his work. Only the fact that they were former classmates and friends probably saved Morisseau's life.\n\nMorisseau-Leroy was invited to France to produce \"Wa Kreyon\" in Paris. While there he met major figures in the Négritude movement, such as Aimé Césaire and Leopold Senghor. They encouraged his work and also influenced his future teaching in nations of Africa and in the United States.\n\nHe next moved to Ghana, where he taught and headed the national theatre as colonialism was ending. He taught in Ghana for seven years, then moved to Senegal, where he taught until 1979. Other Haitian writers exiled by Duvalier to Senegal included Jean Brierre, Gérard Chenet and Roger Dorsinville.\n\nMorisseau-Leroy last moved to Miami, Florida, in 1981, where there was a large Haitian community. He settled with his family there for the rest of his life. In teaching Haitian Creole and literature, he helped unite immigrants and their descendants around their heritage. He wrote a weekly column carried in the periodical \"Haïti en Marche\". In later years, his mop of a white-haired Afro became a trademark, as was his sense of humor.\n\nIn 1991, his work was included in a collection of English translations (by Jeffrey Knapp, Marie Marcelle Buteau Racine, Marie Helene Laraque, and Suze Baron), \"Haitiad and Oddities\", was published in Miami. It contains \"Natif Natal,\" originally written in French, and 12 poems, including \"Boat People,\" \"Thank You Dessalines,\" and \"Water,\" originally written in Haitian Creole. In 1995 he published his last work, an epic novel of Haiti of which he was proud, entitled \"Les Djons d'Haiti Tom\" (\"People of Haiti with Courage\").\n\nHe died in Miami in 1998.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1691497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1691497", "title": "Gagauz language", "text": "Gagauz language\n\nThe Gagauz language (\"Gagauz dili, Gagauzça\") is a Turkic language spoken by the Gagauz people of Moldova, Ukraine, Russia, and Turkey, and it is the official language of the Autonomous Region of Gagauzia in Moldova. Gagauz belongs to the Oghuz branch of Turkic languages, alongside Azerbaijani, Turkmen, Crimean Tatar (considered Kipchak in some cases), and Turkish. Gagauz has two dialects, Bulgar Gagauzi and Maritime Gagauzi. Gagauz is a distinct language from Balkan Gagauz Turkish.\n\nThough it was established as a written language in 1957, Gagauz was not used in curriculum until 1959. Gagauz is a language coming from Balkan Gagauz Turkish; Balkan linguistics was the first to view the consequences of language contact as normal rather than corrupt. The term \"Gagauz language\" and identification of one's language as \"Gagauz\" were established concurrently with or even after the creation of national self-awareness. About 150,000 Gaguazes resided in Moldava in 1986, where they lived in settlements within the Komratskii, Chadyr-Lungskii and Vulkaneshtskii Rayons. Along with the majority of Gagauzes living in Moldova, there are four other cities in Bulgaria in which the Gagauz reside.\n\nIn 1994, the Gagauz wanted autonomy from the former Soviet Union. The Law on Special Legal Status of Gagauzia was passed leading the Gagauz case to be the only case in the former Soviet Union where an ethnic group was granted autonomy status. On January 14, 1995, The Autonomy Statute for Gagauzia was put into effect, granting independence and attempting to regain control of the areas surrounding the Gagauz capital Comrat. Between 1750 and 1846, Gagauz ancestors fled to Russia and settled in the region that is now the current-day Republic of Moldova. Empress Catherine allowed the Gagauz to settle in the region under the condition that they converted to Orthodox Christianity. The districts of Gagauzia were the poorest in Moldova. In the years leading up to their independence, Gagauzia fought hard against the government over water supply, health care and native language education. Gagauzian autonomy led to tough times and turmoil both internally and with the central government in 2002. Power-sharing is a difficult thing to do, so international assistance was needed many times for disputes between the power-sharing Moldova and Gagauzia.\n\nIt appears that the first alphabet to be used for the language was the Greek alphabet in the late 19th century. For example, orientalist Otto Blau claims that plays of Euripides had been translated into the Gagauz language and had been written with Greek letters.\n\nBeginning in 1957, Cyrillic was used up until the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. In 1996 the Republic of Moldova officially introduced a Latin-based alphabet. This is modelled after the modern Turkish alphabet, with the addition of three letters: to represent the sound of (as in Azeri), to represent the (schwa) sound, which does not exist in Turkish, and or to represent the sound as in Romanian. On the other hand, unlike Crimean Tatar, Turkish, and some other Turkic languages, Gagauz does not have the letter , which had become completely silent in the Gagauz language.\n\nNote that dotted and dotless I are separate letters, each with its own uppercase and lowercase form. \"I\" is the capital form of \"ı\", and \"İ\" is the capital form of \"i\". The Gagauz alphabet has no q, w or x. Instead, those characters are transliterated into Gagauz as k, v and ks.\n\nA study in 2012 was conducted on the Gagauz community to assess the current situation and sociocultural context. The findings show that within Gagauzia, official documents, printed publications, and official web sites are only in Russian. The National Passport System in Moldova does not allow the spelling of names in Gagauz. Signposts in Gagauzia are mostly in Romanian, and the names of squares and streets have not changed since the time of the Soviet Union.\n\nDespite various laws that support the rights of citizens to education in their native language, almost all instruction in Gagauzian schools is in Russian. Gagauz, while the native language of all students, is only taught as a \"native language\" class for a few hours per week. Research has also shown that there are not serious desires or attempts to institute Gagauz as a language of instruction. In a study, 80.6% of respondents preferred Russian as the medium of instructions at schools. There are, however, some notable efforts to increase Gagauz language education. Todur Zanet, editor-in-chief of the \"Ana Sözü\" local newspaper, has played an active role in encouraging readers and local authorities to promote instruction in their mother tongue. Zanet has also contributed significantly to efforts to standardize the language, and increase its accessibility through print and other mediums.\n\n\"Ana Sözü\" is the largest local newspaper in Gagauzia. It is also the only local newspaper still written entirely in Gagauz, and was the first newspaper of any kind published in the Gagauz language. Apart from \"Ana Sözü\", there are various newspapers published in the Autonomous Territorial Unit of Gagauzia, including \"Açık Göz\", \"Gagauz Yeri\", \"Gagauz Sesi\", \"Halk Birliği\", \"Novıy Vzgled\", \"Vesti\", \"Gagauzii\", and \"Znamea\".\n\nIn addition to printed materials, the company Gagauz Radio Televisionu (GRT) produces radio and television broadcasts in Gagauz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3746665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3746665", "title": "Gorur Ramaswamy Iyengar", "text": "Gorur Ramaswamy Iyengar\n\nGoruru Ramaswamy Iyengar (1904–1991), popularly known as Gorur, was a Kannada writer; well known for his humour and satire.\n\nGoruru Ramaswami Iyengar was born at \"Goruru\" in Hassan district of Karnataka in 1904.His father Srinivas Iyengar and mother Lakshamma\n\nGoruru Ramaswami Iyengar was influenced by Indian Independence Movement and became a staunch follower of Mahatma Gandhi. He was jailed by the British administration in 1942 for 2 months for his participation in the Quit India Movement and in 1947. His son Ramachandra became a martyr for the same cause in 1947.\n\nAfter Independence in 1947, Goruru worked in the Khadi Board Industries. He began writing early in life with the celebrated books \"HALLIYA CHITRAGALU\" (1930) and \"NAMMA OORINA RASIKARU\" (1932). His \"Amerikadalli Goruru\" 1979, is a satirical travelogue of a true Indian in United States. It fetched him the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1981. His short story \"Bhootayyana Maga Ayyu\" (based on true events) was made into a Kannada movie of the same name by noted director S. Siddalingaiah in 1975. Novels \"Hemavathi\" and \"URVASHI\" were also made into movies. His travelogue was made into a television series. His other works include \"Rasaphala\", \"Namma Oorina Rasikaru\", \"Putta mallige\", \"Hemavathi\" and \"Garudagambada Dasayya\", \"MERAVANIGE\". He was nominated to Karnataka Legislative Council in 1952 in recognition of his literary contributions. In 1971 he was a recipient of an Honorary doctorate from the University of Mysore.\n\nA road in Rajajinagar, Bangalore is named after him.\n\nGoruru Ramaswamy Iyengar died in 1991,september 28 at the age of 87. His birth centenary was celebrated in 2005. His memoirs of his childhood days, \"Goruru Avara Balyada Atma Kathe\" was published posthumously.\n"}
{"id": "45604339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45604339", "title": "Gourgen Yanikian", "text": "Gourgen Yanikian\n\nGourgen Mkrtich Yanikian or in Western Armenian Kourken Mgrditch Yanigian (, December 24, 1895 – February 27, 1984) was an Armenian American engineer, Armenian Genocide survivor, best known for the assassination of two Turkish consular officials, Los Angeles Consul General Mehmet Baydar and Consul Bahadır Demir, in California in 1973. Sentenced to life imprisonment, Yanikian was released on parole in January 1984. It is widely believed that Yanikian's act was the inspiration for the founding of the Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia, the Armenian militant organization of the 1970s and 1980s which staged attacks on Turkish diplomats in retaliation for the Armenian Genocide.\n\nYanikian was born in Erzurum in 1895, at the height of the anti-Armenian massacres that had taken hold of the eastern provinces of the Ottoman Empire. His family was able to flee to a safer location, but when they returned to Erzurum eight years later to retrieve personal possessions they had hidden in a barn, his elder brother Hagop was killed by two Turkish men. Yanikian was studying to be an engineer at the University of Moscow when World War I broke out. After learning of the Turkish persecution of Armenians during the genocide of 1915-23, he traveled to the Caucasus in the spring of 1915 and joined a volunteer regiment of the Russian Army to find out the fate of his family members, whom he had not heard from since the outbreak of the war and who were living in the Ottoman Empire. He was assigned to an engineering unit that was tasked with mapping out the geography of the terrain ahead of the regular troops. As the Russian army advanced, Yanikian witnessed first hand the destruction wrought against the Armenians. Upon his arrival in Erzurum, he found his father's business in ruins and recognized the bodies of two of his relatives. In the course of the genocide he lost twenty-six members of his extended family.\n\nYanikian went on to complete his education in Russia and in 1930 moved to Iran together with his wife Suzanna. They settled in Tehran where Suzanna opened a gynecological clinic while Yanikian set up a civil engineering company called RAHSAZ. Amongst other construction projects, he oversaw the building of a railroad across Iran during the Second World War, as part of Allied efforts there, and became quite affluent. He emigrated to the United States in 1946, via France. He and his wife arrived in New York and moved to Beverly Hills where he opened the Yanikian Theater. The theater did not do well.\n\nThe couple moved to Fresno, CA, where there was a large Armenian community. He claims he was a radio host in Fresno. After some years, he and his wife moved to Santa Barbara, CA. He began developing properties, using his substantial savings. Things did not go well however, and he lost most of his money in the project. All the while, he had been writing and publishing several novels including , \"Harem Cross\" (1953) and \"The Voice of an American\" (1960). By the late 1960s, Yanikian had lost most of his money, was living on welfare and his wife was in a care home with dementia unable to recognize him, even though he visited nearly every day and brought her chocolates. Her medical care became a factor in his insolvency and his dependency.\n\nA final straw came for him late in 1972 when the U.S. State Department wrote him a letter that he should make no more attempts to communicate with their office. Yanikian had been attempting to collect money owed him from Iran for projects he had done during World War II. Yanikian had exhausted every legal channel and hoped the State Department could evoke pressure for payment of $1.5 million he claimed he was owed for the construction work he had overseen there.\n\nAs a matter of fact, in 1944 the Iranian court issued an award in favor of Yanikian against Iran's Ministry of Roads, which stipulated that the Ministry was to compensate Yanikian for the implemented construction works by 26 November 1944, but the Ministry failed to pay the award until 15 August 1948, and Yanikian sought to recover the damages for the delay in payment. The Iranian government stated that Yanikian was paid in full, and the Iran–United States Claims Tribunal dismissed in 1985 the claims of Yanikian's attorneys citing the lack of jurisdiction over items of the claim. His despondency about the general state of his life has been thought to be a major factor in his act of planning and killing the Consul General and the Vice Consul General. Memories of the genocide lingered in his mind and visions of his dead brother haunted him for years. The Republic of Turkey's continual denial of the genocide remained a source of anguish and pain. Eventually, Yanikian, believing he had little left to live for, resolved to avenge the deaths of his family members and bring greater awareness to the genocide by organizing the assassination of the perpetrator country's agents, an act that took its cue from the example set by Soghomon Tehlirian fifty years earlier.\n\nOn January 27, 1973, the 77-year-old Yanikian lured the Turkish consul general Mehmet Baydar, 47, and vice-consul Bahadır Demir, 30, to a cottage at the Biltmore Hotel in Santa Barbara, promising to make a gift to Turkey of a bank note and a painting stolen from the Ottoman sultan's palace more than a century earlier. Yanikian had contacted the consul general three months before, and insisted that the consul general personally accept the painting, and since Baydar did not drive, Demir was asked to accompany him to provide transportation. Baydar, married and the father of two daughters, was a career diplomat who had previously served in Paris and Washington. Demir was on his first foreign assignment. That neither man was alive during the genocide \"mattered little to Yanikian,\" according to journalist Michael Bobelian: \"Just as Ottoman dehumanization of the Armenians a half century earlier opened the door for so many ordinary citizens to participate in the Genocide, Yanikian came to view the men not as human beings, but as symbols of decades of injustice.\"\n\nYanikian handed them the bank note, for which he was given a receipt, and the three men began to converse over lunch. During this time, Yanikian revealed to them that he was not Iranian, as he had told the consulate when he first contacted them, but Armenian. Baydar dropped the bank note in anger and a heated exchange took place. At this point, Yanikian yelled \"I will kill you,\" pulled a Luger pistol from a hollowed-out book and emptied nine rounds, hitting the Turkish diplomats in the shoulders and chest, though none of the wounds were lethal. As Baydar and Demir lay on the ground, Yanikian took a Browning pistol from a drawer and fired two rounds into the head of each man, \"what he considered mercy shots.\" He phoned the front desk of the hotel from his room and requested that the sheriff be contacted, because \"I have just killed two men.\"\n\nBefore meeting the Turkish diplomats, Yanikian had sent a letter to an Armenian language newspaper, urging Armenians to wage a war on Turkish diplomats.\n\nThe Turkish Embassy reacted to the killings by calling on the United States to take action to protect its nationals, and the American Ambassador in Ankara condemned the killings, stating he and all Americans were \"shocked at this senseless act of violence.\" Fifty FBI agents were assigned to investigate Yanikian's background, including exploring possible (though ultimately non-existent) ties to the Soviets or to a well-organized \"Armenian gang.\"\n\nYanikian pleaded not guilty to two charges of first degree murder. Although over the course of the trial he openly conceded that he had caused the deaths of the men, he insisted that he was not guilty of any crime. Yanikian insisted that what he did was \"destroy two evils,\" as the victims were \"not human\" for him. Yanikian admitted that he conceived the assassination plan in April 1972, and meticulously implemented it over the intervening months between that time and the date of the actual homicides on January 27, 1973. He had originally planned to carry out the homicides in the consular offices, but changed his mind upon visiting the offices where he observed the presence of numerous employees who \"might try to be heroes and get hurt.\"\n\nIn an interview with reporters in a court anteroom he slammed his hands down on the table and declared that other people \"have had their Nuremberg but we have not.\" Yanikian's defense counsel, headed by defense attorney James T. Lindsey, attempted to bring in survivors of the Armenian Genocide to testify as to the trauma of the experiences, as part of the defense strategy of depicting Yanikian as having \"diminished mental capacity,\" but these motions were denied in court. After Yanikian's death, District Attorney David D. Minier wrote, \"Looking back, I regret that I did not allow the genocide to be proven. Not because Yanikian should have gone free, but because history's darkest chapters — its genocides — should be exposed, so their horrors are less likely to be repeated.\"\n\nArmenians hoped Yanikian's trial would provide a vehicle for proving the massacres in a court of law, while there were still surviving witnesses, but District Attorney Minier didn't agree. Only Yanikian took the Armenian Genocide witness stand, accompanied by his friend and interpreter, Santa Barbaran Aram Saroyan, the uncle of famous author William Saroyan. He told of coming across mutilated corpses and finding the decapitated bodies of his relatives killed in the massacres, and how he watched in hiding as marauding Turks slit his brother's throat. He concluded by saying that he killed the Turkish diplomats as representatives of the \"government that had massacred his people.\"\n\nYanikian's defense was based entirely on his claim of diminished capacity. However, the jury did not find this to be convincing, because it was clear from his testimony that he understood he was taking the lives of two human beings and that he did so because he considered it justified.\n\nYanikian was sentenced to life in prison on July 2, 1973. A Court of Appeals of California declined his appeal and ruled that his \"ability to deliberate and to premeditate his crime was demonstrated by his own testimony of the elaborate preparations pursuant to a plan which was executed with logic and precision. Defendant's testimony showed the plan was initiated many months prior to its execution and involved the use of a bait to lure the consular officials to the place chosen by defendant.\" Despite objections from the Turkish government, Yanikian was paroled on January 31, 1984, because of poor health, and transferred to a Montebello convalescent hospital. He died of a heart attack one month later at the age of 88.\n\nYanikian is known to have remarked, \"I’m not Gourgen Yanikian but unacknowledged history coming back for the 1,500,000 Armenians whose bones desecrate my invisible existence.\" In death, he became a symbol for many Armenians of their resentment toward the Turkish government for refusing to acknowledge the Armenian genocide. Upon his death, one of his attorneys, Bill Paparian, remarked that Yanikian \"is now a piece of Armenian history.\" \nIt is believed that Yanikian's act set off the string of assassinations and targeted attacks against Turkish diplomats by ASALA and JCAG in the 1970s and 1980s. Yanikian would later be appropriated by ASALA as an iconic figure. At the beginning, it bore the name of \"The Prisoner Kurken Yanikian Group\". Because of this association, Yanikian's slayings have been characterized as \"the opening salvo\" of the armed attacks against the Turkish government and its agents.\n\nAccording to Khachig Tololyan, \"[Yanikian is] not understood in the context of his life, of his real biography, or even in the context of the brief autobiography we can glean from his utterances. He is assigned a regulative biography, and understood through it... enlisted in a resonating roll-call that blurs history, context, and nuance.\"\n\nThere is a conversation between the Brano and Gavra from Olen Steinhauer's \"Liberation Movements\" dedicated to Yanikian's person:\n—\"Who's Gourgen Yanikian?\" Gavra asked.\n—\"American citizen, Armenian descent. Two years ago he invited the Turkish consul general and the consul to lunch at the Baltimore Hotel in Santa Barbara, California. He shot them both with a Luger. Killed them.\"\n\nIn April 2009, \"In My Defense\" play was staged in Glendale, California. Dedicated to Yanikian's life and struggle, the play is written by Jack Emery for the BBC.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20596907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20596907", "title": "Jollo", "text": "Jollo\n\nJollo was an online translation website where users could instantly translate texts into 23 languages, request human translations from a community of volunteers around the world and compare the correctness of several leading machine translation websites. It is currently dead.\n\nJollo was a free Web 2.0 website that is attempting to redefine the way in which people translate online through the use of existing machine translation websites and a community of volunteers who correct and rate translations. The system relies on a similar methodology as computer-assisted translation to ensure translation quality, and features a public translation memory that records past translations.\n\nJollo received some notable media attention. According to The Daily Telegraph. According to the popular blog KillerStartups Jollo combines the best of two worlds - the speed of machine translations plus the benefit of human reviews to ensure translation quality. According to blogger Jeffrey Hill from The English Blog the community features make Jollo an interesting alternative to other online translation services.\n\nThe Jollo website was classified as beta.\n\nJollo was developed using LAMP and had been praised for its colorful graphics and simple user interface.\n\nJollo offered a simple web-based API that could be used for translations. For example, the URL: http://www.jollo.com/translate.php?st=I%20love%20you&sl=en&tl=zh was used to translate the sentence \"I love you\" from English into Chinese.\n\n"}
{"id": "7175984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7175984", "title": "Language island", "text": "Language island\n\nA language island is an exclave of a language that is surrounded by one or more different languages. \n\nExamples of language islands:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33158074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33158074", "title": "Lemma (psycholinguistics)", "text": "Lemma (psycholinguistics)\n\nIn psycholinguistics, a lemma (plural \"lemmas\" or \"lemmata\") is an abstract conceptual form of a word that has been mentally selected for utterance in the early stages of speech production. A lemma represents a specific meaning but does not have any specific sounds that are attached to it.\n\nWhen a person produces a word, they are essentially turning their thoughts into sounds, a process known as lexicalisation. In many psycholinguistic models this is considered to be at least a two-stage process. The first stage deals with semantics and syntax; the result of the first stage is an abstract notion of a word that represents a meaning and contains information about how the word can be used in a sentence. It does not, however, contain information about how the word is pronounced. The second stage deals with the phonology of the word; it attaches information about the sounds that will have to be uttered. The result of the first stage is the lemma in this model; the result of the second stage is referred to as the lexeme.\n\nThis two-staged model is the most widely supported theory of speech production in psycholinguistics, although it has been challenged. For example, there is some evidence to indicate that the grammatical gender of a noun is retrieved from the word's phonological form (the lexeme) rather than from the lemma. This can be explained by models that do not assume a distinct level between the semantic and the phonological stages (and so lack a lemma representation).\n\nDuring the process of language activation, lemma retrieval is the first step in lexical access. In this step, meaning and the syntactic elements of a lexical item are realized as the lemma. Lemma retrieval, as explained through a spreading-activation theory, is part of a network of separate elements consisting of the abstract concept, the lemma and the lexeme. Lemma retrieval is aided by the activation level of the concept that has yet to be verbalized. When activation takes place on the lemma level, the highest activated lemma element is selected.\n\nLexical selection experiments have provided evidence that lemma retrieval is affected by the frequency of the word. This indicates that word frequency not only has an effect on the phonological elements of a word but also the semantic and syntactic elements that make of the lemma.\n\nExperiments that have studied the Tip-of-the tongue (TOT) phenomenon have provided evidence that less strong connections of phonological elements (lexemes) and lexical and syntactic representation (lemmas) lead to inability to retrieve a lexical item. TOT utterances provide evidence that the lemmas and lexemes are separate processes in language activation.\n\nThe concept of lemma is similar to the Sanskrit \"sphoṭa\" (6th century), an invariant mental word, to which the sound is intimately – but not indivisibly – connected.\n"}
{"id": "944291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=944291", "title": "Linear city", "text": "Linear city\n\nThe linear city was an urban plan for an elongated urban formation. The city would consist of a series of functionally specialized parallel sectors. Generally, the city would run parallel to a river and be built so that the dominant wind would blow from the residential areas to the industrial strip. The sectors of a linear city would be: \n\n\nAs the city expanded, additional sectors would be added to the end of each band, so that the city would become ever longer, without growing wider.\n\nThe linear city design was first developed by Arturo Soria y Mata in Madrid, Spain during the 19th century, but was promoted by the Soviet planner Nikolay Alexandrovich Milyutin in the late 1920s. (Milyutin justified placing production enterprises and schools in the same band with Engels' statement that \"education and labour will be united\".)\n\nErnst May, a famous German functionalist architect, formulated his initial plan for Magnitogorsk, a new city in the Soviet Union, primarily following the model that he had established with his Frankfurt settlements: identical, equidistant five-story communal apartment buildings and an extensive network of dining halls and other public services.\n\n"}
{"id": "638190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=638190", "title": "List of Russian-language writers", "text": "List of Russian-language writers\n\nThis is a list of authors who have written works of prose and poetry in the Russian language.\n\nFor separate lists by literary field: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16009151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16009151", "title": "List of colors (compact)", "text": "List of colors (compact)\n\nThe following list shows a compact version of the colors in the List of colors , , and articles. The list shows the color and its name. Hovering over the color box shows the HSV, RGB, and #hex values for the color in the tool tip.\n\nThere are 11 main colors. The main 11 colors are red, orange, yellow, green, blue, purple, pink, brown, gray, black and white. The rest of the colors on this list are just different types, combinations and shades of the main 11 colors.\n\n"}
{"id": "24061694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24061694", "title": "List of inscriptions in Serbia", "text": "List of inscriptions in Serbia\n\nThis is a list of ancient epigraphy found in Serbia\n\n\nIMP. CAESAR. DIVI. NERVAE. F\nNERVA TRAIANVS. AVG. GERM\nPONTIF MAXIMUS TRIB POT IIII\nPATER PATRIAE COS III\nMONTIBVUS EXCISI(s) ANCO(ni)BVS\nSVBLAT(i)S VIA(m) F(ecit)\n\nmeaning: \"Emperor Nerva son of the divine Nerva, Nerva Trajan, the Augustus, Germanicus, Pontifex Maximus, invested for the fourth time as Tribune, Father of the Fatherland, Consul for the third time, excavating mountain rocks and using wood beams has made this road.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35233978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35233978", "title": "Macuna language", "text": "Macuna language\n\nMacuna, also known as \"Buhagana, Wahana,\" is a Tucanoan language of Colombia and Brazil.\n"}
{"id": "52908001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52908001", "title": "Marcas Mac an Tuairneir", "text": "Marcas Mac an Tuairneir\n\nMarcas Mac an Tuairneir (born 28 November 1984 in York) is a writer.\n\nMac an Tuairneir writes and publishes in Scottish Gaelic and English.\n\nHe was educated at the University of Aberdeen, earning a master's degree in Gaelic and Spanish in 2008. He earned a MLitt in Scottish and Irish literature from that university in 2010 and he wrote his thesis about intentionality in the poetry of Crìsdean Mac Ille-Bhàin and Cathal Ó Searcaigh. He completed a master's degree in fiction for television at the Glasgow Caledonian University between 2011 and 2012, when he began to write for MG Alba.\n\nMac an Tuairneir has published poetry in \"Cabhsair\", \"Irish Pages\" and \"Poetry Scotland\", among other publications. \nHe published his first collection, \"Deò\", in 2013. His second collection, \"Lus na Tùise\", was published in 2016.\n\nIn 2014, he won a Highland Literary Salon prize for his poetry and both first and second place in the Baker Prize. In 2015, he placed second for the William Blake Poetry Prize for his English language poetry. He was shortlisted for the Gaelic award at the Wigtown Book Festival in 2015 and 2016. In 2012 he was shortlisted at the Comórtas Filíochta an Chornéil Uí Néill (a bilingual competition for Irish and Gaelic language poetry) and, in 2016, for the Douglas Hyde award at the Strokestown Poetry Festival, both Irish organizations. In 2016, he won the competition 'Write Up North!\" at the Scottish Association of Writers.\n\nHe contributes literary and artistic criticism and essays to \"Cothrom Ùr\" and \"Dàna\". He is the Gaelic editor of the magazine \"The Poets' Republic\".\n\nMac an Tuairneir won the New Gaelic Dramatist award in 2016 at \"Playwrights' Studio Scotland\" and Comhairle nan Leabhraichean. He has written three plays.\n\n'Diuchdadh' was performed at Eden Court, Inverness, in March 2016, directed by Mac an Tuairneir himself. The script, written in verse, is his own work. 'Tilleadh' and 'Tioradh' are his other dramas.\n\nMac an Tuairneir is a member of Trosg, which has performed at Celtic Connections, the Belladrum Festival, and many other concerts. In 2016, he won the final gold medal at An Comunn Gàidhealach, where he sang 'Cumha an t-Seana Ghàidheal' and 'Cànan nan Gàidheal.'\n\nHis poetry has been sung by Ceitidh Nic a' Ghobhainn, Ruth Keggin, Malina Dhòmhnallach, and Gillie NicCoinnich, among others. There is an established creative partnership between him and the singer Màiri Anna NicUalraig; together, they have composed the following songs: 'Ainneamhag' for the Inverness Gaelic Choir, which won second place in the Lovat and Tullibardine Awards of 2016; 'Grioglachan', in memory of the late Magaidh Dhòmhnallach; and 'Speactram,' first recorded by Màiri Anna herself on her record 'Dàn.'\n\nMac an Tuairneir is a member of the Inverness Gaelic Choir.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37242645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37242645", "title": "MetaTexis", "text": "MetaTexis\n\nThe name MetaTexis is used for several software products developed by MetaTexis Software and Services. The main software products are MetaTexis for Word and the MetaTexis Server. MetaTexis for Word is a translation memory software, also called Computer-assisted translation tool (CAT tool), that runs inside Microsoft Word. The MetaTexis Server is a server software for translation memories (TMs) and terminology databases (TDBs) that allows numerous translators to work with the same TMs and TDBs via LAN or Internet.\n\nMetaTexis Software and Services is based in Trier, Germany.\n\nThe first version of MetaTexis for Word was released in July 2002. From the start MetaTexis for Word used the COM-add-in technology for MS Word. Since then the software has continually been extended and improved. Version 3 of MetaTexis for Word was released in September 2010.\n\nIn 2006 the first version of the MetaTexis Server was released. Since then the software has continually been extended and improved. Version 3 of the MetaTexis Server was released in October 2010.\n\nMetaTexis for Word is a so-called COM-add-in that runs in Microsoft Word on Windows. The functions are available via a menu and a toolbar and/or via a ribbon inside Microsoft Word. A document translated in MetaTexis for Word is converted into a bilingual document (containing both the source text and the translation). The text is segmented, and the segments are presented to the translator one after another. When the translation is finished, the final, translated document is created by a clean-up process. The workflow is similar to older Trados versions or Wordfast Classic.\n\nMetaTexis for Word can handle the following formats: any file type that is supported by Microsoft Word, plain text files, Word documents (DOC/DOCX), Microsoft Excel (XLS/XLSX), PowerPoint (PPT/PPTX), Rich Text Format (RTF), HTML, XML, TRADOS Word documents, TRADOS TagEditor (TTX), TRADOS Studio (SDLXLIFF), Manual Maker, several further formats.\n\nMetaTexis can use five professional database engines to save and administer the translation memory and terminology data.\n\nThe MetaTexis products can also import and export several file types for the exchange of data, in especially MetaTexis support TMX files for translation memory exchange with other translation memory tools. MetaTexis can also import TBXfiles for terminology exchange with other CAT tools. \n\nThe MetaTexis programs support multiple TMs and glossaries. The size of TMs and TDBs is only limited by the database engine used and by the database storage and the computing capacities of the system where the software is installed. \n\nMetaTexis for Word can access the MetaTexis Server and other server-based TMs, and MetaTexis can retrieve data from machine translation services that are available via internet (including Google Translate and Microsoft Translator).\n\nComprehensive help resources are available for each MetaTexis software product. The program manuals, FAQs, demos, etc. can be accessed via this internet page: http://www.metatexis.com/support.htm .\n\nIndividual support is provided via email. The support is available for free. No support contract needs to be signed, no fees need to be paid.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4839287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4839287", "title": "Modern Literal Taiwanese", "text": "Modern Literal Taiwanese\n\nModern Literal Taiwanese (MLT), also known as Modern Taiwanese Language (MTL), is an orthography in the Latin alphabet for Taiwanese based on the Taiwanese Modern Spelling System (TMSS). MLT is able to use the ASCII character set to indicate the proper variation of pitch without any subsidiary scripts or diacritic symbols.\n\nThe MLT alphabet adopts the Latin alphabet of 26 letters and the Scandinavian letter ø to express the basic sounds of Taiwanese:\n\nA MLT word, like each English word, can be formed by only one syllable or several syllables, with the two syllables being the most typical. Each syllable in MLT follows either one of the two underlying patterns (phonemes inside the bracket [] are optional):\n\n\n\n\nThe nasals \"m\", \"n\", and \"ng\" can be appended to any of the vowels and some of the diphthongs.\nIn addition, \"m\" and \"ng\" can function as independent syllables by themselves.\n\nThe stops \"h/q\", \"k/g\", \"p/b\" and \"t/d\" can appear as the last letter in a syllable, in which case they are pronounced with no audible release. (The finals \"h\" and \"q\" stand for a glottal stop of high and low tone, respectively.)\n\nTMSS originally prescribed two special characters: the Greek letter \"ν\" and an \"o\" crossed by a backslash. These were replaced with the Latin letter \"v\" and number \"0\", respectively. Because mixing numbers into words is problematic for spell checkers, \"0\" was subsequently replaced by ø.\n\nNot only consonants and vowel sounds, but also tones are represented by letters in the MLT system. Certain letters have no sound of their own and are merely used as tone indicators. Others letters represent vowels or vowel combinations which have certain tones.\nFor example, \"f\", \"r\", and \"x\" are tone indicators only, and have no sound of their own in MLT. \"Af\" represents the \"a\" sound with a \"high\" tone, \"ar\" represents the same vowel sound but with a \"shouting\" tone, \"ax\" is the \"a\" sound with the low falling tone. A \"y\" or \"w\" indicates a high tone \"i\" and \"u\", respectively, while certain diphthongs, such as \"ie\" and \"uo\", are treated as \"shouting\" tones. The basic tone is represented by a normal, simple vowel (or voiced consonant—e.g. the nasals, \"m\" or \"ng\") without any special spelling modification.\n\nA high tone is derived by raising the pitch of the voice to a level somewhat above the basic tone and is normally represented by adding the tone indicator \"f\" after a vowel, with the exception of the “i” and “u” sounds in a syllable. A high tone \"i\" and a high tone \"u\" are denoted by \"y\" and \"w\", respectively.\n\nA shouting-out [or just \"shouting\"] tone is derived from shouting out a basic tone, and is normally represented by adding a tone indicator \"r\" after a vowel. When compound vowels are present in the shouting tone, however, sounds which by the normal rule would otherwise be written (“air”, “ir”, “ur”, “er”, and “aur”) are instead spelled \"ae\", \"ie\", \"uo\", \"ea\", and \"ao\", respectively. Exceptions occur when this rule overlaps with other rules. For example, the shouting tone of \"lin\" is written \"lirn\", not \"lien\" (interpreted as a compound vowel in basic tone) even though \"lie\" is the \"shouting\" counterpart to \"li\".\n\nThe low-falling tone is always marked by appending an \"x\" to the rearmost vowel. (Think of the low, almost guttural tone used in muttering a flat \"Huh.\" or \"Hmph.\" in English.)\n\nThe rising tone is denoted according to the following rules:\n\nThe low stopping tones are indicated by switching the final stops with the high stopping tones' as follows: h->q, t->d, p->b, k->g.\n\nExamples for the seven tones:\n\nThe apostrophe (', typewriter apostrophe) is used to demarcate syllables when there is ambiguity. A hyphen (-) is used to join two or more isolated words to make a new compound word with its own meaning. When a word contains a grave accent (`), all the syllables after this mark are accented in the low tone (low-falling for the long tones, and low-short for short tones).\n\nThe Pe̍h-ōe-jī (POJ) system, introduced in the 19th century, provides a basis for phonetic transcription of the Taiwanese language using the Latin alphabet. It initially developed a significant user base, but the number of users declined during the period of Japanese colonization of Taiwan, when the use of POJ was suppressed in preference to katakana, and also during the era of martial law, during which Mandarin Chinese was promoted.\n\nProf. Liim Keahioong, formerly of the National Cheng Kung University in Tainan, Taiwan, pioneered the Taiwanese Modern Spelling System (TMSS) in 1943, with the intent to avoid the diacritical markings of POJ as well as the cumbersome difficulty of inputting Chinese characters with the available technology. TMSS served as the basis for Modern Literal Taiwanese (MLT), also known as Modern Taiwanese Language (MTL).\nOther variants of MLT exist, such as Phofsit Daibuun and Simplified MLT (SMLT).\n\n"}
{"id": "2064504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2064504", "title": "Motion graphic design", "text": "Motion graphic design\n\nMotion graphic design is a subset of graphic design in that it uses graphic design principles in a filmmaking or video production context (or other temporally evolving visual medium) through the use of animation or filmic techniques. Examples include the kinetic typography and graphics used in film and television opening sequences, and the spinning, three-dimensional station identification logos of some television channels. The art form has been around for decades, and has advanced in technical sophistication over time.\n\nA motion graphic designer may be a person trained in traditional graphic design who has learned to integrate additional elements into their existing skill set of design knowledge, though motion designers can also come from filmmaking or animation backgrounds, and may use tools or training from those fields as well. \n\nPopular use of motion graphic design is used in the film industry. Openings to movies, television shows, and news programs can use photography, typography, and motion graphics to make the introduction more entertaining. The graphics used in television show introductions will usually represent the tone of the program. For example, high action television shows will contain fast-paced and bold graphics in the openings.\n\nTechnological advancements during the 20th and 21st centuries have greatly impacted the field; chief among these are improvements in modern computing technology, as computer programs for the film and video industries became more powerful and more widely available during this period. Modern motion graphic design typically involves any of several computerized tools and processes.\n\nOne of the leading computer programs used by modern motion graphic designers has been Adobe After Effects, which allows the user to create and modify graphics over time. Another relatively recent product used in the market is Apple Inc. Motion, now a part of Final Cut Studio. Software such as Maxon Cinema4D has integrated tools to create motion graphics, such as the native MoGraph plugin, or ICE of Softimage, which can also be used for similar purposes.\n\nAdobe Flash has also been widely used to create motion graphic design, particularly for the web, where it is sometimes used in web design, but also in some animation products, such as animated web television productions like Homestar Runner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "704006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=704006", "title": "Mycenaean Greek", "text": "Mycenaean Greek\n\nMycenaean Greek is the most ancient attested form of the Greek language, on the Greek mainland, Crete and Cyprus in Mycenaean Greece (16th to 12th centuries BC), before the hypothesised Dorian invasion, often cited as the \"terminus post quem\" for the coming of the Greek language to Greece. The language is preserved in inscriptions in Linear B, a script first attested on Crete before the 14th century. Most inscriptions are on clay tablets found in Knossos, in central Crete, as well as in Pylos, in the southwest of the Peloponnese. Other tablets have been found at Mycenae itself, Tiryns and Thebes and at Chania, in Western Crete. The language is named after Mycenae, one of the major centres of Mycenaean Greece.\n\nThe tablets long remained undeciphered, and many languages were suggested for them, until Michael Ventris deciphered the script in 1952.\n\nThe texts on the tablets are mostly lists and inventories. No prose narrative survives, much less myth or poetry. Still, much may be glimpsed from these records about the people who produced them and about Mycenaean Greece, the period before the so-called Greek Dark Ages.\n\nThe Mycenaean language is preserved in Linear B writing, which consists of about 200 syllabic signs and logograms. Since Linear B was derived from Linear A, the script of an undeciphered Minoan, the sounds of Mycenaean are not fully represented. In essence, a limited number of syllabic signs must represent a much greater number of produced syllables that would be better represented phonetically by the letters of an alphabet.\n\nOrthographic simplifications therefore had to be made:\nIn addition to the spelling rules, signs are not polyphonic (more than one sound), but sometimes are homophonic (a sound can be represented by more than one sign), which are not \"true homophones\" but are \"overlapping values.\" Long words may omit a middle or final sign.\nMycenaean preserves some archaic Proto-Indo-European and Proto-Greek features not present in later Ancient Greek.\n\nOne archaic feature is the set of labiovelar consonants , written , which split into , , or in Ancient Greek, depending on the context and the dialect.\n\nAnother set is the semivowels and the glottal fricative between vowels. All were lost in standard Attic Greek, but was preserved in some Greek dialects and written as digamma or beta .\n\nIt is unclear how the sound transcribed as was pronounced. It may have been a voiced or voiceless affricate or , marked with asterisks in the table above. It derives from , , and some initial and was written as ζ in the Greek alphabet. In Attic, it may have been pronounced in many cases, but it is in Modern Greek.\n\nThere were at least five vowels , which could be both short and long.\n\nAs noted above, the syllabic Linear B script used to record Mycenaean is extremely defective and distinguishes only the semivowels ; the sonorants ; the sibilant ; the stops ; and (marginally) . Voiced, voiceless and aspirate occlusives are all written with the same symbols except that stands for and for both and ). Both and are written ; is unwritten unless followed by .\n\nThe length of vowels and consonants is not notated. In most circumstances, the script is unable to notate a consonant not followed by a vowel. Either an extra vowel is inserted (often echoing the quality of the following vowel), or the consonant is omitted. (See above for more details.)\n\nThus, determining the actual pronunciation of written words is often difficult, and using of a combination of the PIE etymology of a word, its form in later Greek and variations in spelling is necessary. Even so, for some words the pronunciation is not known exactly especially when the meaning is unclear from context, or the word has no descendants in the later dialects.\n\nNouns likely decline for 7 cases: nominative, genitive, accusative, dative, vocative, instrumental and locative; 3 genders: masculine, feminine, neuter; and 3 numbers: singular, dual, plural. The last two cases had merged with other cases by Classical Greek. In Modern Greek, only nominative, accusative, genitive and vocative remain as separate cases with their own morphological markings. Adjectives agree with nouns in case, gender, and number.\n\nVerbs probably conjugate for 3 tenses: past, present, future; 3 aspects: perfect, perfective, imperfective; 3 numbers: singular, dual, plural; 4 moods: indicative, imperative, subjunctive, optative; 3 voices: active, middle, passive; 3 persons: first, second, third; infinitives, and verbal adjectives.\n\nThe verbal augment is almost entirely absent from Mycenaean Greek with only one known exception, , \"a-pe-do-ke\" (PY Fr 1184), but even that appears elsewhere without the augment, as , \"a-pu-do-ke\" (KN Od 681). The augment is sometimes omitted in Homer.\n\nMycenaean had already undergone the following sound changes peculiar to the Greek language and so is considered to be Greek:\n\n\n\n\nThe corpus of Mycenaean-era Greek writing consists of some 6,000 tablets and potsherds in Linear B, from LMII to LHIIIB. No Linear B monuments or non-Linear B transliterations have yet been found.\n\nIf it is genuine, the Kafkania pebble, dated to the 17th century BC, would be the oldest known Mycenean inscription, and hence the earliest preserved testimony of the Greek language, but it is likely a hoax.\n\nWhile the use of Mycenaean Greek may have ceased with the fall of the Mycenaean civilization, some traces of it are found in the later Greek dialects. In particular, Arcadocypriot Greek is believed to be rather close to Mycenaean Greek. Arcadocypriot was an ancient Greek dialect spoken in Arcadia (central Peloponnese), and in Cyprus.\n\nAncient Pamphylian also shows some similarity to Arcadocypriot and to Mycenaean Greek.\n\nWhile the Mycenaean dialect is relatively uniform at all the centres where it is found, there are also a few traces of dialectal variants:\n\n\nBased on such variations, Ernst Risch (1966) postulated the existence of some dialects within Linear B. The \"Normal Mycenaean\" would have been the standardized language of the tablets, and the \"Special Mycenaean\" represented some local vernacular dialect (or dialects) of the particular scribes producing the tablets.\n\nThus, \"a particular scribe, distinguished by his handwriting, reverted to the dialect of his everyday speech\" and used the variant forms, such as the examples above.\n\nIt follows that after the collapse of Mycenaean Greece, while the standardized Mycenaean language was no longer used, the particular local dialects reflecting local vernacular speech would have continued, eventually producing the various Greek dialects of the historic period.\n\nSuch theories are also connected with the idea that the Mycenaean language constituted a type of a special \"koine\" representing the official language of the palace records and the ruling aristocracy. When the 'Mycenaean linguistic koine' fell into disuse after the fall of the palaces because the script was no longer used, the underlying dialects would have continued to develop in their own ways. That view was formulated by Antonin Bartonek. Other linguists like L.R. Palmer (1980), and (1985) also support this view of the 'Mycenaean linguistic koine'. (The term 'Mycenaean koine' is also used by archaeologists to refer to the material culture of the region.) However, since the Linear B script does not indicate several possible dialectical features, such as the presence or absence of word-initial aspiration and the length of vowels, it is unsafe to extrapolate that Linear B texts were read as consistently as they were written.\n\nThe evidence for \"Special Mycenaean\" as a distinct dialect has, however, been challenged. Thompson argues that Risch's evidence does not meet the diagnostic criteria to reconstruct two dialects within Mycenaean. In particular, more recent paleographical study, not available to Risch, shows that no individual scribes consistently writes \"Special Mycenaean\" forms. This inconsistency makes the variation between \"Normal Mycenaean\" and \"Special Mycenaean\" unlikely to represent dialectical or sociolectical differences, as these would be expected to concentrate in individual speakers, which is not observed in the Linear B corpus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37287935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37287935", "title": "Neku language", "text": "Neku language\n\nNeku is an Oceanic language of New Caledonia.\n"}
{"id": "24222494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24222494", "title": "Orthographic depth", "text": "Orthographic depth\n\nIn linguistics, the orthographic depth of an alphabetic orthography indicates the degree to which a written language deviates from simple one-to-one letter–phoneme correspondence. It depends on how easy it is to predict the pronunciation of a word based on its spelling: shallow orthographies are easy to pronounce based on the written word, and deep orthographies are difficult to pronounce based on how they are written.\n\nIn shallow orthographies, the spelling-sound correspondence is direct: from the rules of pronunciation, one is able to pronounce the word correctly. In other words, shallow (transparent) orthographies, also called phonemic orthographies, have a one-to-one relationship between its graphemes and phonemes, and the spelling of words is very consistent. Such examples include Spanish, Italian, Finnish, and Turkish.\n\nIn contrast, in deep (opaque) orthographies, the relationship is less direct, and the reader must learn the arbitrary or unusual pronunciations of irregular words. In other words, deep orthographies are writing systems that do not have a one-to-one correspondence between sounds (phonemes) and the letters (graphemes) that represent them. They may be irregular (English), reflect etymology (Hungarian, Faroese or French) or be morphophonemic (Korean).\n\nWritten Korean represents an interesting hybrid; each phoneme in the language is represented by a letter but the letters are packaged into \"square\" units of two to four phonemes, each square representing a syllable. Korean is not completely shallow but has some exceptions in which the written word is not pronounced exactly as the individual letter-phoneme correspondences would otherwise require. English has many such instances: compare the pronunciation of the letter \"c\" in the words \"magic\" and \"magician\" or the pronunciation of the letter \"i\" in \"pint\" and \"mint\".\n\nAccording to the orthographic depth hypothesis, shallow orthographies are more easily able to support a word recognition process that involves the language phonology. In contrast, deep orthographies encourage a reader to process printed words by referring to their morphology via the printed word's visual-orthographic structure (see also Ram Frost). For languages with relatively deep orthographies such as English, French, Arabic or Hebrew, new readers have much more difficulty learning to decode words. As a result, children learn to read more slowly. For languages with relatively shallow orthographies, such as Italian and Finnish, new readers have few problems learning to decode words. As a result, children learn to read relatively quickly.\n\nThe phonetic writing systems of Japanese (hiragana and katakana) are another example of shallow orthography, but Japanese also uses logographs (kanji), which are significantly more complicated. Additionally, Latinization known as rōmaji is increasingly common but not used traditionally. However, in contrast to alphabetic orthographies (English, French, Italian, Turkish, etc.), the Japanese hiragana and katakana orthographies are based on the open syllables of speech (consonant-vowel) or, more precisely, on the mora, with one written symbol for each of the syllables/moras in the language. While Japanese has only 3 graphemes for six phonemes like in the word katana (Japanese hiragana:かたな, Japanese katakana: カタナ IPA: /ka ta na/) Japanese kana is divided into syllables/morae with a simple V or C+V structure (with one -C mora that typically only appears at the ends of syllables), rather than by individual vowels and consonants; fewer graphemes are needed to write a word. Since Japanese phonology is relatively simple compared to many other languages, writing Japanese using syllables rather than alphabetic letters is a feasible option. \n\nBosch et al. consider orthographic depth to be the composition of at least two separate components. One of these relates to the complexity of the relations between the elements at the graphemic level (graphemes) to those at the phonemic level (phonemes), i.e., how difficult it is to convert graphemic strings (words) to phonemic strings. The second component is related to the diversity at the graphemic level, and to the complexity of determining the graphemic elements of a word (graphemic parsing), i.e., how to align a phonemic transcription to its spelling counterpart.\n\n"}
{"id": "19867396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19867396", "title": "Preminder Singh Sandhawalia", "text": "Preminder Singh Sandhawalia\n\nPreminder Singh Sandhawalia is a Punjabi author. \n\nHis first book, published in 1999, was \"Noblemen and Kinsmen History of a Sikh Family\". His second book \"Beyond Identity\" was released in 2007, and is about his people. It attempts to describe a new path that the Sikh community should follow in the years to be a model people. Preminder Singh Sandhawalia’s third book, \"CELEBRITY: Its Changing Face in India Through the Ages\" was published in May 2012, and it examines the idea of celebrity in Indian culture through the ages. Sandhawalia explores why celebrity, an honour once accorded to those who performed great feats or provided great service, is now given to entertainers, and hopes his book will encourage readers to “… move away from being mere spectators who indolently look to entertainers to amuse them and return to appreciation of meritocracy and morality.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53849196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53849196", "title": "Psychical inertia", "text": "Psychical inertia\n\nPsychical inertia is a term introduced by Carl Jung to describe the psyche's resistance to development and change. He considered it one of the main reason for the neurotic opposing, or shrinking from, his/her age-appropriate tasks in life.\n\nFreud argued that such psychic inertia played a part in the lives of the normal, as well as of the neurotic, and saw its origins in fixation between early instincts and their first impressions of significant objects. As late as \"Civilization and its Discontents\", he considered as a major obstacle to cultural development \"the inertia of the libido, its disinclination to give up an old position for a new one\".\n\nLater Jungians have seen psychic inertia as a force of nature reflecting both internal and outer determinants; while others have seen it as the product of social pressures, especially in relation to ageing.\n\n"}
{"id": "4589344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4589344", "title": "Red Book of Endangered Languages", "text": "Red Book of Endangered Languages\n\nThe Red Book of Endangered Languages was published by UNESCO and collected a comprehensive list of the world's endangered languages. It has been replaced by the UNESCO Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger.\n\nIn 1992 the International Congress of Linguists (CIPL) meeting in Canada discussed the topic of endangered languages, as a result of which it formed the Endangered Languages Committee. It held an international meeting also in 1992 in Paris to place the topic before the world and initiate action. The meeting was considered important enough to come under the authority of UNESCO.\n\nAt the instigation of Stephen Wurm the committee resolved to create a research center, the International Clearing House for Endangered Languages (ICHEL) and to publish the UNESCO Red Book of Endangered Languages based on the data it collected. Shigeru Tsuchida was to start the research center. It began in 1994 at the University of Tokyo with Tasaka Tsunoda as its director.\n\nMeanwhile, the initial reports on endangered languages had already been collected and submitted to UNESCO by regional experts in 1993. These were now turned over to ICHEL, which created a website for the red book. It continues to be updated regularly.\n\nIn February 2009, UNESCO launched an online edition of the Atlas of endangered languages which covers the whole world, contains much more information than previous printed editions and offers the possibility to users to provide online feedback, in view of its constant updating.\n"}
{"id": "34244703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34244703", "title": "Roger Gougenot des Mousseaux", "text": "Roger Gougenot des Mousseaux\n\nRoger Gougenot des Mousseaux (1805–76) was a French writer and journalist. In 1860 he wrote \"La magie au dix-neufième siècle\", and in 1864 \"Les hauts phénomènes de la magie\".\n\nAn ultramontane antisemite, des Mosseaux's \"Le Juif, le judaïsme et la judaïsation des peuples chrétiens\" (1869) argued that Jews had manipulated the ideals of the Enlightenment to subvert and destroy Catholic France, and held them responsible for the French Revolution. Gougenot des Mousseaux maintained that Jews engaged in ritual murder, conspired with Freemasons to control the world, and that the French Revolution was wrong to grant them equal rights. Pope Pius IX blessed the work and Nazi ideologue Alfred Rosenberg edited and published the first German edition in 1921. It was also heavily cited in Édouard Drumont's popular anti-Semitic screed \"La France juive\".\n"}
{"id": "4559909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4559909", "title": "Say Good Night to Illiteracy", "text": "Say Good Night to Illiteracy\n\nSay Goodnight to Illiteracy is a children's bedtime storybook series, published annually by Half Price Books, Records, Magazines, Incorporated through their publishing entity Hackberry Press. All proceeds from the sales of the book are donated by Half Price Books to literacy organizations across the nation such as Reach Out and Read.\n\nThe Retail Advertising and Marketing Association (RAMA) honored Half Price Books with the Peter Glen Award in 2004 for the \"Say Good Night to Illiteracy\" project. It was recognized as a public service that has fostered dreams and creativity of hundreds of writers, raising awareness and funds for the cause of literacy.\n\nAnnual release occurs in October. A current edition of the \"Say Good Night to Illiteracy\" bedtime storybook collection can be purchased at any Half Price Books. All proceeds of new book sales made at Half Price Books benefit non-profit family literacy groups. Some used copies are sold on auction sites such as Abebooks and Amazon.com.\n\nChildren's stories in the book are a result of the annual writing contest held by the used bookstore chain. Twenty entries are selected each year for publication. Each children's story or poem is matched up with simple, four-color illustrations, provided by professional and student illustrators.\n\nThe theme of the book each year is centered on quotations about books, reading and learning. Overall, the theme and purpose of the \"Say Good Night to Illiteracy\" project is summarized by this Emilie Buchwald quotation: \"Children are made readers in the laps of their parents.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "44634507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44634507", "title": "Sinacantán language", "text": "Sinacantán language\n\nSinacantán is a Xincan language of Honduras, reported in Glottolog, from the region of Sinacantán.\n"}
{"id": "39570862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39570862", "title": "Sistani dialect", "text": "Sistani dialect\n\nSistani (also known as \"Sistanian\") is a dialect continuum spoken by Sistani people mainly in Iran, Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Pakistan and Turkmenistan. It is part of the Southwestern Iranian branch of the Indo-Iranian group of Indo-European languages, and generally considered a dialect of Persian.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "597082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=597082", "title": "Table of vowels", "text": "Table of vowels\n\nThis table lists the vowel letters of the International Phonetic Alphabet. \n"}
{"id": "51787321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51787321", "title": "Talking shit", "text": "Talking shit\n\nTalking shit (e.g. General Grievous) is a term and type of trash-talk that refers to various types of derogatory language aimed at an individual or any type of entity, such as a group or organization. Talking shit can be used as a tactic in fighting or brawling, used to draw attention to the matter among onlookers. This is a term that has been coined more recently and is used in reference when someone talks negatively or spreads false ideas about another person, concept, organization, or entity.\n\nShitposting is the act of posting \"content of aggressively, ironically, and trollishly poor quality\" to an online forum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53857051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53857051", "title": "Tirukkural translations into Punjabi", "text": "Tirukkural translations into Punjabi\n\nTirukkural has been translated into Punjabi at least twice.\n\nIn 1983, the Kural text was translated into Punjabi by Ram Murthy Sharma. Titled \"Tirukkural: Dharma Granth of Tamils,\" this was published in Chandigarh. Another translated was made by Tarlochan Singh Bedi, former principal of the government college of Faridkot, in 2012, which was published by the Central Institute of Classical Tamil, Chennai.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11388276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11388276", "title": "Two-dimensionalism", "text": "Two-dimensionalism\n\nTwo-dimensionalism is an approach to semantics in analytic philosophy. It is a theory of how to determine the sense and reference of a word and the truth-value of a sentence. It is intended to resolve the puzzle: How is it possible to discover empirically that a necessary truth is true? Two-dimensionalism provides an analysis of the semantics of words and sentences that makes sense of this possibility. The theory was first developed by Robert Stalnaker, but it has been advocated by numerous philosophers since, including David Chalmers.\n\nAny given sentence, for example, the words,\n\nis taken to express two distinct propositions, often referred to as a \"primary intension\" and a \"secondary intension\", which together compose its meaning.\n\nThe primary intension of a word or sentence is its sense, i.e., is the idea or method by which we find its referent. The primary intension of \"water\" might be a description, such as \"watery stuff\". The thing picked out by the primary intension of \"water\" could have been otherwise. For example, on some other world where the inhabitants take \"water\" to mean \"watery stuff\", but, where the chemical make-up of watery stuff is not HO, it is not the case that water is HO for that world.\n\nThe \"secondary intension\" of \"water\" is whatever thing \"water\" happens to pick out in \"this\" world, whatever that world happens to be. So, if we assign \"water\" the primary intension \"watery stuff\", then the secondary intension of \"water\" is HO, since HO is \"watery stuff\" in this world. The secondary intension of \"water\" in our world is HO, which is HO in every world because unlike \"watery stuff\" it is impossible for HO to be other than HO. When considered according to its secondary intension, \"Water is HO\" is true in every world.\n\nIf two-dimensionalism is workable it solves some very important problems in the philosophy of language. Saul Kripke has argued that \"Water is HO\" is an example of a necessary truth which is true \"a posteriori\", since we had to discover that water was HO, but given that it is true (which it is) it cannot be false. It would be absurd to claim that something that is water is not HO, for these are known to be \"identical\".\n\nHowever, this contention that one and the same proposition can be both a posteriori and necessary is considered absurd by some philosophers (as is Kripke's paired claim that the same proposition can be both a priori and contingent).\n\nFor example, Robert Stalnaker's account of knowledge represents knowledge as a relation on possible worlds, which entails that it is impossible for a proposition to fail to be a priori given that it is necessary. This can be proven as follows: If a proposition \"P\" is necessary it is true in all possible worlds. If \"P\" is true at all possible worlds and what we know are sets of possible worlds, then it is not possible \"not\" to know that \"P\", for \"P\" is the case at all possible worlds in the set of worlds that we know. So if \"P\" is necessary then we know it necessarily, and \"ipso facto\" we know it a priori.\n\nUnder two-dimensionalism, the problem disappears. The primary intension of \"Water is HO\" is the \"a posteriori\" component, since it is contingent that the referent of \"water\" is HO, while the secondary intension is the \"necessary\" component of the sentence, since it is necessary that the stuff we in fact call water is HO. Neither intension gives us both a necessary and an \"a posteriori\" component. But one gets the false impression that the sentence expresses a \"necessary a posteriori\" proposition because this single sentence expresses two propositions, one \"a posteriori\" and one \"necessary\".\n\nTwo-dimensional semantics has been used by David Chalmers to counter objections to the various arguments against materialism in the philosophy of mind. Specifically, Chalmers deploys two-dimensional semantics to \"bridge the (gap between) epistemic and modal domains\" in arguing from knowability or epistemic conceivability to what is necessary or possible (modalities).\n\nThe reason Chalmers employs two-dimensional semantics is to avoid objections to conceivability implying possibility. For instance, it's claimed that we can conceive of water not having been , but it's not possible that water isn't . Chalmers replies that it \"is\" 1-possible that water wasn't because we can imagine another substance XYZ with watery properties, but it's not 2-possible. Hence, objections to conceivability implying possibility are unfounded when these words are used more carefully.\n\nChalmers then advances the following \"two-dimensional argument against materialism\". Define P as all physical truths about the universe and Q as a truth about phenomenal experience, such as that someone is conscious. Let \"1-possible\" refer to possibility relative to primary intension and \"2-possible\" relative to secondary intension.\n\nScott Soames is a notable opponent of two-dimensionalism, which he sees as an attempt to revive Russelian-Fregean descriptivism and to overturn what he sees as a \"revolution\" in semantics begun by Kripke and others. Soames argues that two-dimensionalism stems from a misreading of passages in Kripke (1980) as well as Kaplan (1989).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "533265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533265", "title": "Wanker", "text": "Wanker\n\nWanker, literally \"one who wanks (masturbates)\", is a general insult. It is a pejorative term of English origin common in Britain and other parts of the English-speaking world (mainly Commonwealth nations), including Ireland, Australia and New Zealand. It initially referred to an \"onanist\" and is synonymous with the word \"\".\n\nThe terms \"wank\" and \"wanker\" originated in British slang during the late 19th and early 20th century. In modern usage it is usually a general term of contempt rather than a commentary on sexual habits. \"Wanker\" has similar meanings and overtones to American pejoratives like \"jerk\" or \"jerk-off\". More generally, \"wanker\" can carry suggestions of egotistical and self-indulgent behaviour and this is the dominant meaning in Australia and New Zealand.\n\n\"Wanker\" may be indicated by a one-handed gesture, usually to an audience out of hearing range. It is performed by curling the fingers of the hand into a loose fist and moving the hand back and forth to mime male masturbation, which is equivalent to saying, \"that person is a wanker\".\n\nIn the United States, the term is understood, but rarely used, and then more in a way suggesting the target is an idiot.\n\nRelated are terms such as \"wanker's colic\", for an undiagnosed visceral pain, and \"wanker's doom\", for excessive masturbation, from slang used in the RAF and British prisons since the 1920s.\n\nIn December 2000, the Advertising Standards Authority published research on attitudes of the British public to pejoratives. It ranked \"wanker\" as the fourth most severe pejorative in English. The BBC describes it as \"moderately offensive\" and \"almost certain\" to generate complaints if used before the watershed.\n\nIn Australia, it is considered mildly offensive but is widely accepted and used in the media.\n\nMary Cresswell, an American etymologist, describes \"wanker\" as \"somewhat more offensive in British use than Americans typically realize\". The word was used twice to comic effect in the \"Simpsons\" episode \"Trash of the Titans\", which caused no offence to American audiences, but prompted complaints on occasions when the episode was broadcast unedited in the United Kingdom.\n\n\"The Winker's Song (Misprint)\" by Ivor Biggun is one of many songs about masturbation. It describes the singer: \"I'm a wanker, I'm a wanker. And it does me good like it bloody well should\", and it reached number 22 in the 1978 UK charts. It was banned by BBC Radio 1 and every national radio and television service.\n\nPhil Collins used the word in his 1984 cameo appearance on \"Miami Vice\" and has sometimes been credited with introducing the word to America.\n\nIn the film \"This Is Spinal Tap\", David St. Hubbins and Nigel Tufnel both use the word out of earshot to describe fellow rock star Duke Fame after a chance encounter.\n\nOn the American television show \"Married... with Children\", Peggy Bundy's family is from the fictional Wanker County.\n\nOn the British television quiz show \"Countdown\", contestants have to form the longest word possible from nine randomly selected letters. On one occasion the letters permitted the spelling of \"wanker\" (or \"wankers\") and both contestants replied with the word, leading one to quip \"we've got a pair of wankers\". The sequence was edited out of the show (as is common with risqué words), but has been shown as an outtake on other shows. However, on a later occasion, \"wanker\" was offered, and this instance was left in and broadcast unedited.\n\nThe comedy show \"Mork & Mindy\" featured a character named Mr. Wanker who was Mindy's landlord. This was broadcast on American TV and later British TV.\n\nAustralian band TISM released an album in 1998 entitled \"www.tism.wanker.com\" (which was an active website for a few months after its release). One of the themes in its lyrics is breaking down male society into two distinct cultures: Yobs (the subject of the first single released from the album) and wankers. Its third single, \"Whatareya?\", offers examples of differences between the types and tells the listener to decide which one he is.\n\nIn February 2009, U2 member Bono called Chris Martin a wanker live on air during Jo Whiley's Radio 1 show.\n\nDuring a live radio debate on 28 May 2010, the future President of Ireland, Michael D. Higgins, urged conservative American radio host Michael Graham to \"be proud to be a decent American rather than being just a wanker whipping up fear.\"\n\nWhen acting as the ombudsman on \"Red Eye w/Greg Gutfeld\" in 2011, Mike Baker presented a graph of the \"wanker gap\" for the first half of the program. Baker has never given an explanation of the meaning of the \"wanker gap.\"\n\nJack Vance wrote a science fiction book entitled \"Servants of the Wankh\" in 1969. The title was changed to \"The Wannek\" due to its sounding like wanker.\n\nIron Maiden's song \"El Dorado\" contains a veiled reference to the term in the line \"I'm a clever banker's face, with just a letter out of place.” In live performances, singer Bruce Dickinson would change to an explicit mention: \"I'm a clever wanker's face, just a banker out of place.\"\n\nIn January 2015 the then Mayor of London Boris Johnson described British-born jihadists as \"pornography-obsessed inadequates who only turn to radical Islam when they fail to make it with girls...They are literally wankers\".\n\nCockney Wanker is a long running character in \"Viz\", based on a stereotypical male Cockney.\n\nHard rock (formerly glam metal) band Vixen's 1998 album \"Tangerine\" contains an instrumental track titled \"Swatting Flies in Wanker County\", written by then-member Gina Stile.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48447324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48447324", "title": "Wintertree", "text": "Wintertree\n\nWintertree is a spell checking server that includes 100,000 words of American, British, and Canadian English dictionaries. The dictionary contains hundreds of common misspellings for the English language and offers corrections based on the misspellings. Created by Wintertree Software, The spelling server can be implemented to HTML Forms and ASP, ASP.NET applications that run IIS (Internet Information Services).\n\nWintertree Software was created in 1990 and incorporated in 1992. Wintertree Software has been proudly serving and implementing their software in many Fortune 500 companies including AT&T, Autodesk, Mercedes-Benz USA, and American Express.\n"}
{"id": "4016688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4016688", "title": "Word wall", "text": "Word wall\n\nA word wall is literacy tool composed of an organized (typically in alphabetical order) collection of words which are displayed in large visible letters on a wall, bulletin board, or other display surface in a classroom. The word wall is designed to be an interactive tool for students or others to use, and contains an array of words that can be used during writing and/or reading.\n\nAlthough typically associated with reading/writing instruction, word walls are becoming commonplace in classrooms for all subject areas due to their ability to foster phonemic awareness, display connections throughout word \"families\" (such as \"-ick\" words), serve as a support/reference for students, as well as create meaningful/memorable experiences with new vocabulary words.\n\nDue to their flexible nature and ability to \"grow\" alongside the students, word walls can be used in classrooms ranging from pre-school through high school.\nWord walls are considered to be interactive and collaborative tools, as they are a student-created and student-centered artifact. Many variations of the word wall are currently in existence, including those featuring illustrations of the words and color-coded lists. \n"}
