{"id": "2583297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2583297", "title": "Alain Manesson Mallet", "text": "Alain Manesson Mallet\n\nAlain Manesson Mallet (1630–1706) was a French cartographer and engineer. He started his career as a soldier in the army of Louis XIV, became a Sergeant-Major in the artillery and an Inspector of Fortifications. He also served under the King of Portugal, before returning to France, and his appointment to the court of Louis XIV. His military engineering and mathematical background led to his position teaching mathematics at court.\n\nHis major publications were \"Description de L'Univers\" (1683) in 5 volumes, and \"Les Travaux de Mars ou l'Art de la Guerre\" (1684) in 3 volumes.\n\nHis \"Description de L'Universe\" contains a wide variety of information, including star maps, maps of the ancient and modern world, and a synopsis of the customs, religion and government of the many nations included in his text. It has been suggested that his background as a teacher led to his being concerned with entertaining his readers. This concern manifested itself in the charming harbour scenes and rural landscapes that he included beneath his description of astronomical concepts and diagrams. Mallet himself drew most of the figures that were engraved for this book.\n\nAll Mallet maps and views from different editions (1683-1719) available at http://www.columbia.edu/itc/mealac/pritchett/00generallinks/mallet/\n\nTreatises on line: http://architectura.cesr.univ-tours.fr/Traite/Auteur/Manesson_Mallet.asp?param=en\n"}
{"id": "18674371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18674371", "title": "Atmospheric correction", "text": "Atmospheric correction\n\nAtmospheric correction is the process of removing the effects of the atmosphere on the reflectance values of images taken by satellite or airborne sensors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3353337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3353337", "title": "Boreal Shield Ecozone (CEC)", "text": "Boreal Shield Ecozone (CEC)\n\nThe Boreal Shield Ecozone, as defined by the Commission for Environmental Cooperation (CEC), is the largest ecozone in Canada. Covering 1.8 million square kilometres it covers almost 20% of Canada's landmass, stretching from northern Saskatchewan to Newfoundland.\n\nCanadian Shield rock forms the nucleus of the North American continent. Other geological structures assumed positions around or on top of the Shield millions of years after it was formed. The Rocky Mountains are relative newcomers on the geological stage. Most Shield rocks were formed well over a billion years earlier, during the very first chapter of the planet's history known as the Precambrian era.\n\nWhat once may have been a towering mountain chain is today a great rolling plain of ancient bedrock. During the late Precambrian era, fierce convulsions in the Earth's crust resulted in a warped, collapsed Shield. The foundation of much of the ecozone is now metamorphic gneiss, a highly banded rock formed by intense pressure and heat. Many of the minerals that contribute to the Shield's economy may have formed during these geologically turbulent times.\n\nDuring the last ice age, which ended 10 000 years ago, the advance of glaciers continuously plucked and scoured the Boreal Shield, forming striations in the bedrock and carrying large boulders many kilometers. In retreat, massive glaciers enveloped most of the landscape with great amounts of glacial deposits including gravel, sand, shale, and numerous sediments. The vast majority of inadequately drained depressions that were left behind, as well as natural faults in the bedrock, now form the millions of lakes, ponds and wetlands that give this ecozone its distinctive character.\n\nThe regional climate has long, cold winters and short, warm summers, conditions which are moderated in coastal regions. The mean annual temperature ranges from -4 °C in northern Saskatchewan to 5.5 °C in Newfoundland. Precipitation increases from west to east. Permafrost is widespread.\n\nThe ecozone is characterized by a broadly rolling uplands and lowlands with precambrian granitic bedrock outcrops. There are numerous lakes and rivers, accounting for 22% of Canada's freshwater surface area. The types of soil vary widely from muskeg to glacial-deposited sands.\n\nThe region is widely forested with white and black spruce, balsam fir and jack pine. Deciduous trees are more common in the south, with white birch, trembling aspen and balsam poplar. There are also yellow birch and sugar maple to the east. In areas of muskeg there are stands of black spruce or tamarack. There are frequent forest fires.\n\nBeing largely wild and remote, this ecozone is rich in wildlife, including woodland caribou, moose, wolf, black bear, raccoon, marten, fisher, striped skunk, lynx, bobcat and eastern chipmunk. Common birds include boreal owl, great horned owl, blue jay, white-throated sparrow and evening grosbeak. Lakes contain brook char, lake trout, northern pike, perch, and walleye.\n\nOff the northern and eastern coasts, aquatic mammals include grey seal, harp seal, hooded seal, ringed seal, sperm whale, orca, Atlantic pilot whale, fin whale, blue whale, northern right whale, bowhead whale, and humpback whale.\n\nFire suppression, insect control, clear-cutting and single-species tree farming are widespread in accessible areas. These practices may, over the long term, reduce the diversity of both plant and animal species and increase the forest's vulnerability to disease.\n\nMany Shield lakes and soils are extremely sensitive to changes in pH. Acid rain from local sources and from the long-range transport of airborne pollutants has already taken an ominous toll. It may be weakening the general vigour and growth rate of trees, as well as of aquatic species, in sensitive areas.\n\nEach province continues to work on defining subregions within the larger\nnational ecozone system.\n\nThe Alberta Natural Subregion - Natural Regions (2006) found within this ecozone are:\n\nThe Manitoba Ecoregions within this ecozone are:\n\nThe Saskatchewan Ecoregions within this ecozone are:\n\nA number of protected areas have been established to protect representative and/or significant portions of this ecozone.\n\n"}
{"id": "44207384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44207384", "title": "Cape Blanche Conservation Park", "text": "Cape Blanche Conservation Park\n\n"}
{"id": "44273427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44273427", "title": "Champeigne tourangelle", "text": "Champeigne tourangelle\n\nChampeigne tourangelle is a east of Touraine located southeast of Tours.\n\nThis grain growing micro-region, classified Natura 2000, extends between the Cher Valley, Sainte-Maure de Touraine Plateau and Gâtine Tourangelle of Loches. Composed of two limestone plates cut by the valleys of the Indre river and the Indrois river, it covers all or part of the territories of the following municipalities: Athée-sur-Cher, Azay-sur-Indre, Bléré, Chambourg-sur-Indre, Chanceaux-près-Loches, Chédigny, Cigogné, Cormery, Courcay, , Genillé, Le Liège, Luzillé, Reignac-sur-Indre, Saint-Quentin-sur-Indrois, Sublaines et Tauxigny.\n\n"}
{"id": "47063538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47063538", "title": "Districts of Ivory Coast", "text": "Districts of Ivory Coast\n\nThe districts of Ivory Coast () are the first-level administrative subdivisions of the country. The districts were created in 2011 in an effort to further decentralise the state, but in practice most of them have not yet begun to function as governmental entities.\n\nThere are 14 districts, including two autonomous districts around the cities of Yamoussoukro and Abidjan. The remaining 12 districts are further subdivided into 31 regions, which are further subdivided into 108 third-level subdivisions, the departments (). Departments are subdivided into 510 sub-prefectures (). The lowest level of administrative organisation, which exist in limited numbers, is the commune. Although they are not divided into regions, the autonomous regions do contain departments, sub-prefectures, and communes.\n\nEach district is meant to be headed by a governor, who is appointed by the council of ministers (cabinet) of the national government. However, apart from governors for the two autonomous districts, no district governor has yet been nominated; the inaction has largely been in response to apprehensions by the regional prefects that district governors will usurp their authority and responsibilities. \n\nDistricts have been given four primary responsibilities:\n\nPrecise distinctions in the jurisdiction of districts as compared to regions has yet to be established. Because of the lack of district governors, the governments of the non-autonomous districts have not yet begun to function.\n\nThe following is the list of districts, district capitals and each district's regions:\n\nPrior to September 2011, Ivory Coast's first-level administrative subdivisions were 19 regions. In 2011, the regions were reorganized into the 14 districts (12 regular districts and 2 autonomous districts). The following is a summary of how the districts were constructed from the former regions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2201947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2201947", "title": "Friedländer", "text": "Friedländer\n\nFriedländer (Friedlander, or Friedlaender) is a toponymic surname derived from any of German places named Friedland. \n\nThe surname may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "67318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67318", "title": "Geography of Chile", "text": "Geography of Chile\n\nThe geography of Chile is extremely diverse as the country extends from a latitude of 17° South to Cape Horn at 56° (if Chilean claims on Antarctica are included Chile would extend to the South Pole) and from the ocean on the west to Andes on the east. Chile is situated in southern South America, bordering the South Pacific Ocean and a small part of the South Atlantic Ocean. Chile's territorial shape is among the world's most unusual. From north to south, Chile extends , and yet it only averages east to west. Chile reaches from the middle of South America's west coast straight down to the southern tip of the continent, where it curves slightly eastward. Diego Ramírez Islands and Cape Horn, the southernmost points in the Americas, where the Pacific and Atlantic oceans meet, are Chilean territory. Chile's northern neighbors are Peru and Bolivia, and its border with Argentina to the east, at , is the world's third longest.\n\nThe northern two-thirds of Chile lie on top of the telluric Nazca Plate, which, moving eastward about ten centimeters a year, is forcing its way under the continental plate of South America. This movement has resulted in the formation of the Peru–Chile Trench, which lies beyond a narrow band of coastal waters off the northern two-thirds of the country. The trench is about wide and averages about in depth. At its deepest point, just north of the port of Antofagasta, it plunges to . Although the ocean's surface obscures this fact, most of Chile lies at the edge of a profound precipice.\n\nThe same telluric displacements that created the Peru-Chile Trench make the country highly prone to earthquakes. During the twentieth century, Chile has been struck by twenty-eight major earthquakes, all with a force greater than 6.9 on the Richter scale. The strongest of these occurred in 2010 (registering an estimated 8.8 on the Richter scale) and in Valdivia 1960 (reaching 9.5). This latter earthquake occurred on May 22, the day after another major quake measuring 7.25 on the Richter scale, and covered an extensive section of south-central Chile. It caused a tsunami that decimated several fishing villages in the south and raised or lowered sections of the coast as much as two meters. The clash between the Earth's surface plates has also generated the Andes, a geologically young mountain range that, in Chilean territory alone, includes about 620 volcanoes, many of them active. Almost sixty of these had erupted in the twentieth century by the early 1990s. More than half of Chile's land surface is volcanic in origin.\n\nAbout 80 percent of the land in Chile is made up of mountains of some form or other. Most Chileans live near or on these mountains. The majestically snowcapped Andes and their precordillera elevations provide an ever-present backdrop to much of the scenery, but there are other, albeit less formidable, mountains as well. Although they seemingly can appear anywhere, the non-Andean mountains usually form part of transverse and coastal ranges. The former, located most characteristically in the near north and the far north natural regions, extend with various shapes from the Andes to the ocean, creating valleys with an east-west direction. The latter are evident mainly in the center of the country and create what is commonly called the Central Valley (Valle Central) between them and the Andes. In the far south, the Central Valley runs into the ocean's waters. At this location, the higher elevations of the coastal range facing the Andes become a multiplicity of islands, forming an intricate labyrinth of channels and fjords that have been an enduring challenge to maritime navigators.\n\nMuch of Chile's coastline is rugged, with surf that seems to explode against the rocks lying at the feet of high bluffs. This collision of land and sea gives way every so often to lovely beaches of various lengths, some of them encased by the bluffs. The Humboldt Current, which originates northwest of the Antarctic Peninsula (which juts into the Bellingshausen Sea) and runs the full length of the Chilean coast, makes the water frigid. Swimming at Chile's popular beaches in the central part of the country, where the water gets no warmer than in the summer, requires more than a bit of fortitude.\n\nChilean territory extends as far west as Polynesia. The best known of Chile's Pacific Islands is Easter Island (Isla de Pascua, also known by its Polynesian name of Rapa Nui), with a population of 2,800 people. Located west of Chile's mainland port of Caldera, just below the Tropic of Capricorn, Easter Island provides Chile a gateway to the Pacific. It is noted for its 867 monoliths (moais), which are huge (up to twenty meters high) and mysterious, expressionless faces sculpted of volcanic stone. The Juan Fernández Islands, located west of Valparaíso, are the locale of a small fishing settlement. They are famous for their lobster and the fact that one of the islands, Robinson Crusoe Island, is where Alexander Selkirk, the inspiration for Daniel Defoe's novel, was marooned for about four years.\n\nSince Chile extends from a point about north of the Tropic of Capricorn to a point hardly more than north of the Antarctic Circle, a broad selection of the Earth's climates can be found in this country. Therefore, geographically, the country can be divided into many different parts. It is usually divided by geographers into five regions: the far north, the near north, central Chile, the south, and the far south. Each has its own characteristic vegetation, fauna, climate, and, despite the omnipresence of both the Andes and the Pacific, its own distinct topography.\n\nThe far north (Norte Grande), which extends from the Peruvian border to about 27° south latitude, a line roughly paralleled to the Copiapó River, is extremely arid. It mainly contains the Atacama Desert, one of the driest areas in the world. In certain areas, this desert does not register any rainfall at all. Geographically, the aridity can be explained by the following reasons:\n\n\nAverage monthly temperatures range at sea level between about during the summer and about during the winter. Most of the population lives in the coastal area, where the temperatures are more moderate and the humidity higher. Contrary to the image of monochrome barrenness that most people associate with deserts, the landscape is spectacular, with its crisscrossing hills and mountains of all shapes and sizes, each with a unique hue depending on its mineral composition, its distance from the observer, and the time of day.\n\nIn the far north, the land generally rises vertically from the ocean, sometimes to elevations well over . The Cordillera Domeyko in the north runs along the coast parallel to the Andes. This topography generates coastal microclimates because the fog that frequently forms over the cold ocean waters, as well as any low clouds, is trapped by the high bluffs. This airborne moisture condenses in the spines and leaves of the vegetation, droplets that fall to the ground and irrigate the plants' roots. Beyond the coastal bluffs, there is an area of rolling hills that encompasses the driest desert land; this area ends to the east with the Andes towering over it. The edges of the desert in some sections have subterranean aquifers that have permitted the development of forests made up mainly of tamarugos, spiny trees native to the area that grow to a height of about twenty-five meters. Most of those forests were cut down to fuel the fires of the many foundries established since colonial times to exploit the abundant deposits of copper, silver, and nitrate found in the area. The result was the creation of even drier surface conditions.\n\nThe far north is the only part of the country in which there is a large section of the Andean (plateau). During summer the area receives considerable rainfall in what is commonly known as the \"Bolivian winter,\" forming shallow lakes of mostly saline waters (Salar de Llamara, Salar des Miraje, Salar de Atacama) that are home to a number of bird species, including the Chilean flamingo. Some of the water from the plateau trickles down the Andes in the form of narrow rivers, many of which form oases before being lost to evaporation or absorption into the desert sands, salt beds, and aquifers. However, some rivers do manage to reach the Pacific, including the Loa River, whose U-shaped course across the desert makes it Chile's longest river. The water rights for one of the rivers, the Lauca River, remain a source of dispute between Bolivia and Chile. These narrow rivers have carved fertile valleys in which exuberant vegetation creates a stark contrast to the bone-dry hills. In such areas, roads usually are built halfway up the arid elevations in order to maximize the intensive agricultural use of the irrigated land. They offer spectacular panoramic vistas, along with the harrowing experience of driving along the edges of cliffs.\n\nIn the far north, the kinds of fruits that grow well in the arid tropics thrive, and all kinds of vegetables can be grown year-round. However, the region's main economic foundation is its great mineral wealth. For instance, Chuquicamata, the world's largest open-pit copper mine, is located in the far north. Since the early 1970s, the fishing industry has also developed lots in the main ports of the area, most notably Iquique and Antofagasta.\n\nThe near north (Norte Chico) extends from the Copiapó River to about 32° south latitude, or just north of Santiago. It is a semiarid region whose central area receives an average of about of rain during each of the four winter months, with trace amounts the rest of the year. The near north is also subject to droughts. The temperatures are moderate, with an average of during the summer and about during the winter at sea level. The winter rains and the melting of the snow that accumulates on the Andes produce rivers whose flow varies with the seasons, but which carry water year round. Their deep Transverse Valleys provide broad areas for cattle raising and, most important, fruit growing, an activity that has developed greatly since the mid-1970s. Nearly all Chilean pisco is produced in the near north.\n\nAs in the far north, the coastal areas of the near north have a distinct microclimate. In those sections where the airborne moisture of the sea is trapped by high bluffs overlooking the ocean, temperate rain forests develop as the vegetation precipitates the vapor in the form of a misty rain. Because the river valleys provide breaks in the coastal elevations, maritime moisture can penetrate inland and further decrease the generally arid climate in those valleys. The higher elevations in the interior sections are covered with shrubs and cacti of various kinds.\n\nCentral Chile (Chile Central), home to a majority of the population, includes the three largest metropolitan areas—Santiago, Valparaíso, and Concepción. It extends from about 32° south latitude to about 37° south latitude. The climate is of the temperate Mediterranean type, with the amount of rainfall increasing considerably and progressively from north to south. In the Santiago area, the average monthly temperatures are about in the summer months of January and February and in the winter months of June and July; the average monthly precipitation is no more than a trace in January and February and in June and July. In Concepción, by contrast, the average monthly temperatures are somewhat lower in the summer at but higher in the winter at , and the amount of rain is much greater: in the summer, Concepción receives an average of 0.8 inch (20 millimeters) of rain per month; in June and July, the city is pounded by an average of 10 inches (253 mm.) per month. The numerous rivers greatly increase their flow as a result of the winter rains and the spring melting of the Andean snows, and they contract considerably in the summer. The combination of abundant snow in the Andes and relatively moderate winter temperatures creates excellent conditions for Alpine skiing.\n\nThe topography of central Chile includes a coastal range of mountains running parallel to the Andes. Lying between the two mountain ranges is the so-called Central Valley, which contains some of the richest agricultural land in the country, especially in its northern portion. The area just north and south of Santiago is a large producer of fruits, including the grapes from which the best Chilean wines are made. Exports of fresh fruit began to rise dramatically in the mid-1970s because Chilean growers had the advantage of being able to reach markets in the Northern Hemisphere during winter in that part of the world. Most of these exports, such as grapes, apples, and peaches, go by refrigerator ships, but some, such as berries, go by air freight.\n\nThe southern portion of central Chile contains a mixture of some excellent agricultural lands, many of which were covered originally with old-growth forests. They were cleared for agriculture but were soon exhausted of their organic matter and left to erode. Large tracts of this worn-out land, many of them on hilly terrain, have been reforested for the lumber, especially for the cellulose and paper industries. New investments during the 1980s in these industries transformed the rural economy of the region. The pre-Andean highlands and some of the taller and more massive mountains in the coastal range (principally the Cordillera de Nahuelbuta) still contain large tracts of old-growth forests of remarkable beauty, some of which have been set aside as national parks. Between the coastal mountains and the ocean, many areas of central Chile contain stretches of land that are lower than the Central Valley and are generally quite flat. The longest beaches can be found in such sections.\n\nAlthough many lakes can be found in the Andean and coastal regions of central Chile, the south (Sur de Chile) is definitely the country's most lacustrine area. Southern Chile stretches from below the Bío-Bío River at about 37° south latitude to Chacao channel at about 42° south latitude. In this lake district of Chile, the valley between the Andes and the coastal range is closer to sea level, and the hundreds of rivers that descend from the Andes form lakes, some quite large, as they reach the lower elevations. They drain into the ocean through other rivers, some of which (principally the Calle-Calle River, which flows by the city of Valdivia) are the only ones in the whole country that are navigable for any stretch. The Central Valley's southernmost portion is submerged in the ocean and forms the Gulf of Ancud. Isla de Chiloé, with its rolling hills, is the last important elevation of the coastal range of mountains.\n\nThe south is one of the rainiest areas in the world. One of the wettest spots in the region is Valdivia, with an annual rainfall of . The summer months of January and February are the driest, with a monthly average precipitation of . The winter months of June and July each produce on average a deluge of . Temperatures in the area are moderate. In Valdivia, the two summer months average , whereas the winter months average .\n\nThe lakes in this region are remarkably beautiful. The snow-covered Andes form a constant backdrop to vistas of clear blue or even turquoise waters, as at Todos los Santos Lake. The rivers that descend from the Andes rush over volcanic rocks, forming numerous white-water sections and waterfalls. The vegetation, including many ferns in the shady areas, is a lush green. Some sections still consist of old-growth forests, and in all seasons, but especially in the spring and summer, there are plenty of wildflowers and flowering trees. The pastures in the northernmost section, around Osorno, are well suited for raising cattle; milk, cheese, and butter are important products of that area. All kinds of berries grow in the area, some of which are exported, and freshwater farming of various species of trout and salmon has developed, with cultivators taking advantage of the abundant supply of clear running water. The lumber industry is also important. A number of tourists, mainly Chileans and Argentines, visit the area during the summer.\n\nMany of Chile's distinctive animal species have been decimated as they have been pushed farther and farther into the remaining wilderness areas by human occupation of the land. This is the case with the huemul, a large deer, and the Chilean condor, the largest bird of its kind; both animals are on the national coat of arms. The remaining Chilean cougars, which are bigger than their California cousins, have been driven to isolated national parks in the south by farmers who continue to hunt them because they occasionally kill sheep and goats.\n\nIn the far south (Chile Austral), which extends from between 42° south latitude to Cape Horn, the Andes and the South Pacific. In the northern part of the far south, there is still plenty of rainfall. The summer months average , whereas the winter months average . The temperatures at sea level in Puerto Aisén average in the summer months and in the winter months. The area generally is chilly and wet and houses a combination of channels, fjords, snow-capped mountains, and islands of all shapes and sizes within a narrow space. The southern part of the far south includes the city of Punta Arenas, which, with about 125,000 inhabitants, is the most southern city in Chile. It receives much less precipitation; its annual total is only , or a little more than what Valdivia receives in the month of June alone. This precipitation is distributed more or less evenly throughout the year, with the two main summer months receiving a monthly average of thirty-one millimeters and the winter months , some of it in the form of snow. Temperatures are colder than in the rest of the country. The summer months average , and the winter months average . The virtually constant wind from the South Pacific Ocean makes the air feel much colder.\n\nThe far south contains large expanses of pastures that are often used for raising sheep, even though overgrazing is an issue in some areas. The area's other main economic activity is oil and natural gas extraction from the areas around the Strait of Magellan. This strait is one of the world's important sea-lanes because it unites the Atlantic and Pacific oceans through a channel that avoids the rough open waters off Cape Horn. The channel is perilous, however, and Chilean pilots guide all vessels through it.\n\nArea:\n\"total:\"\n\n\"land:\"\n\n\"water:\"\n\n\"note:\"\nincludes Easter Island (\"Isla de Pascua\") and Isla Sala y Gómez\n\nThis does not include the Chilean claims to Antarctica, which overlaps with the Argentinian and British claims. All Antarctic claims are frozen under the Antarctic treaty.\n\nArea - comparative:\nCanada: roughly half the size of Quebec\nUS: slightly smaller than twice the size of Montana\n\nLand boundaries:\n\"total:\"\n\n\"border countries:\"\nArgentina , Bolivia , Peru \n\nCoastline:\nMaritime claims:\n\"territorial sea:\"\n\n\"contiguous zone:\"\n\n\"exclusive economic zone:\"\n\n\"continental shelf:\"\n\n\nNatural resources:\ncopper, timber, iron ore, nitrates, precious metals, molybdenum, hydropower, thermal power, nutrient-rich ocean currents\n\nLand use:\n\"arable land:\"\n1.80%\n\"permanent crops:\"\n0.61%\n\"other:\"\n97.59% (2012)\n\nIrrigated land:\n\nTotal renewable water resources:\n922 km (2011)\n\nFreshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):\n\"total:\"\n26.67 km/yr (4%/10%/86%)\n\"per capital:\"\n1,603 m/yr (2007)\n\nNatural hazards:\nsevere earthquakes; active volcanism; tsunamis\n\nEnvironment - current issues:\nwidespread deforestation, mining; air pollution from industrial and vehicle emissions; water pollution from raw sewage.\n\nEnvironment - international agreements:\n\"party to:\"\nAntarctic Treaty, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution (MARPOL 73/78), Wetlands, Whaling\n\"signed, but not ratified:\"\nClimate Change-Kyoto Protocol\n\nGeography - note:\nstrategic location relative to sea lanes between Atlantic and Pacific Oceans (Strait of Magellan, Beagle Channel, Drake Passage); Atacama desert is one of world's driest regions\n\nThe population of Chile is 18,313,495 people as of 2017.Future projections of the population pyramid show signs of slow and, even negative, growth. While Chile has a large working age population, more than 20% of the population is over the age 55. This indicates that Chile is becoming an aging society. This could potentially cause a strain on government funding for retirement and medical spending on the elderly. Life expectancy is roughly 79 years.The women of Chile have a higher life expectancy than men, which is typical around the world, with their lifespan averaging at 82.1 years.Men tend to live to be 75.9 years old.The mortality rate is expected to decline for those that will be aged 65-74 in the year 2020 by as much as 2.8%. Overall, the World Factbook ranks Chile's life expectancy as 51st out of 224 other nations. Chile's life expectancy, low mortality rates, and total fertility levels mirror those of developed nations.\nThe distribution of population is very condensed around the capital, Santiago, where approximately 90% of the people live.The cities of Valparaiso and Concepcion are the next highly populated cities, in that order. The population is 87.6% urbanized. In 2009, 12,037,290 living in urban parts of Chile actually had functioning facilities in their home, while 403,276 people did not have proper facilities in their dwelling.100% of the urban population has some form of access to sanitation facilities, while 90.9% of rural people have these facilities available. This is much higher than the rural average for the world that is at 50.5% access to sanitation facilities.\n\nThe United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs note the average annual rate of population change from 2015 to 2017 is 1.022 . The UN data also shows live births per woman (2015-2017) averaging 1.765 and combined infant mortality rate for both sexes at 6.258 per 1,000 live births .\n\nFor women in Chile, the total fertility rate is at 1.765. Chile's total fertility rate is below the replacement-level; that is even lower than the United States', indicating a decline in population growth. Chile's contraception prevalence high: 76.3%. Chile's universal healthcare and education access for women is unequal and only 31.4% of women ages 25-34 have a tertiary education. This percentage is lower compared to other developed countries like the United States and the United Kingdom. However, the female population with some secondary education is 79%. The mobility of women in this country is hindered by the infrastructure and crime in the city: commutes become difficult since women take longer routes and more frequent stops to be safe. Half of the women in Chile have experienced sexual assault off of the streets of Chile.\n\nThe CIA World Factbook assess Chile's net migration rate at .3 migrants per a population of 1,000 and ranks Chile 66 for net migration out of other nations. Due to Chile's stability, democratic government, and growing economy many migrants find this country desirable. Chile receives a high volume of migrants from countries like Venezuela, Haiti, and Colombia. These migrants are either seeking asylum or fleeing failing economies. In 2018, Chilean President Sebastian Pinera announced proposals that aimed to make immigration in Chile more orderly and to curb irregular immigration. 68% of Chilean favor restricting immigration. Chile has created a designated visa specifically for Venezuelan asylum seekers. Although, Chile's requirements for obtaining the Visa can be costly or even out of reach for many poor Venezuelans. There are 133,321 Venezuelan refugees in Chile as of 2018.\n\nPush factors for Chilean emigrants include natural disasters. Earthquakes are common in Chile due to the country's location on the Nazca Plate and South American Plate. Chile notoriously had some of the most powerful earthquakes in history with the Valdivia Earthquake in 1960 at 9.5 on the Richter scale and the Maule Earthquake at 8.8 in 2010. The top three countries that Chilean emigrants are moving to are Argentina, Peru, and the United States.\n\nChile's natural hazards include earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and tsunamis. The natural hazards are attributed to Chile's location along the Ring of Fire. Severe earthquakes can trigger tsunamis for this country with 6,435 km of coastline. There are also more than three-dozen active volcanoes in Chile with the most active being the Llaima in the north Chilean Andes.\n\nDespite being a third world country Chile has a proficient and advanced system of health care that gives everyone a chance to be cared for. The healthcare in Chile is universal for every citizen and legal resident. Universal healthcare is achieved by the project FONASA, which is a financial institution that compiles money and funds then properly allocates them for health care. The FONASA Program is overlooked and run by the government of Chile. Despite being government run the funds come from the citizens of Chile. The citizens earnings are deduced once a month to sponsor FONASA healthcare program. There is also private healthcare for those who do not qualify for universal healthcare. \nChile funds their healthcare system by income taxes, with the tax rate being 7%. About 68% of Chileans are covered by their public healthcare system.\n\nThe Pan American Health Organization lists diseases of the circulatory system and neoplasms as the main causes of death in Chile. Circulatory system diseases include heart attack, heart failure, stroke, high cholesterol, and high blood pressure. Neoplasms can refer to abnormal growth of tissues or cancers.\nThe three most populated cities in Chile are Santiago, Valparaíso, and Concepción. The populations of these cities are: Santiago at 6,680,000, Valparaíso at 967,000 and Concepción at 857,000. Santiago is located in central Chile with the Mapocho River running through the city. Valparaíso is located on the coast about 116 km northwest of Santiago. Concepción is also a coastal city that lies near the mouth of the Biobío River.\n\nIndustrial cities, such as Concepción and Talcahuano, began as colonial centers in the 1600s. Most of the large cities in Chile began as settlement locations for Spanish colonists living in homes constructed from adobe. They have grown to be the densely populated urban locations they are known for today.\nGentrification is occurring in the municipal district of Santiago, which is impacting low income residents. Housing availability has reduced by 50% for residents and rent for new apartments has increased, changing the average income of that location. Floor Area Ratio instigated by the state has resulted in highly dense and smaller living spaces.\n\nWhile Chile's total population is 18,313,495, majority of the population is white/non-indigenous. They make up 88.9%. The largest indigenous ethnicity, Mapuche, makes up 9.1%. The Aymara peoples make up .7% of the population and the remaining 1.3% are categorized as other indigenous groups or unspecified. Chile's high white/non-indigenous population can be traced back to European colonization. Between the 15th and 18th century, the number of slaves arriving in Chile from the Transatlantic slave trade were minuscule compared to Brazil and other South American regions. However, this would still mean that there are Chileans with Afro-descent. Afro-Chileans today are a neglected minority. Chile does not have an Afro-descendant category on their census so this makes it difficult to count their population, but the INE of Chile estimates there are 8,415 people who identify as Afro-descendant in the country.\nIndigenous groups in Chile are highly discriminated against. One of the most discriminated indigenous groups would be the Mapuche. Jobs often discriminate against Chileans with Mapuche names, which has led to higher poverty rates in areas with more Mapuche residents. Common stereotypes for Mapuche peoples include but are not limited to lazy, treacherous, and drunk. Mapuches are also more vulnerable to hate crimes. In November 2018, Camilo Catrillanca was fatally shot in the head by police. Catrillanca was the grandson of a Mapuche leader. Protests over Catrillanca's death turned violent in Santiago and the Chilean government is promising a thorough investigation of this incident.\n\nVertical Ghettos: Due to Chile's high population density in urban city's like Santiago, housing developments started developing upwards. These high rises see an abundance of foreign migrants as occupants.\n\nChristianity is the most commonly practiced religion in Chile with more than two-thirds of Chileans being Roman Catholic. Protestant Christians make up about 16% of Chile's Christian population. Catholicism is the most practiced Christian denomination in Chile. The diffusion of this religion began with priest and Franciscans who arrived with the Spaniards to the new world. The first religious landscape (parish) was built in 1547. By 1650 most of the natives of Chile had been converted to Catholicism. The Catholic church was the dominant religion and the dominant educator, as it was them who dictated what was taught. This brought about the creation of six catholic universities. The stronghold of Catholicism came to a halt in 1925 when church and state were separated. Despite this separation, Catholicism is still celebrated by government officials and certain days are made holidays. This includes, but is not limited to Good Friday, Christmas, and ALL Saints Day. Although a large population of Chileans are Catholics, Chile is one of a couple of Latin American countries with the largest population of Protestants. The second leading Christian denomination in Chile is Protestantism. Protestantism entered the region when many German migrants were welcomed to the southern lake region in the 1840s. The influx of Protestant Germans led to Anglican and Lutheran practices in Chile. With more migrants entering Chile, a profusion of Protestant Religions entered as well. In the early part of the 20th century followers of the new Methodist group separated and formed the Pentecostal Methodist Church. This church would also split as a result of the founding of the Evangelical Pentecostal Church in 1934. Today 90% of Chileans that identify as Protestant are Pentecostal.\n\nIn Chile, there are a number of pilgrimage and devotional sites dedicated to Catholic or cult's saints. These include the Church of Our Lady of Andacollo, the Church of Our Lady at Mount Carmel at Tirana, and the Church of the Immaculate Conception of Lo Vásquez. \n\nWhile there are several different tales of her origin and variations on her name, the Virgin Andacollo is flaunted on the first Sunday of every month in the plaza of Andacollo, Chile. The Virgin Andacollo is the Patron Saint of miners who heals the sick and rescues those lost in the mines. On the first Sunday of October, the town of Andacollo celebrates their saint with La Fiesta Chico. Thousands of pilgrims come to the northern Chilean town each December for La Fiesta Grande. This event lasts from December 23th to 27th. This celebration attracts as many as 500,000 people a year.\nIt's not uncommon to come across roadside shrines in Chile. These shrines are called Animitas and they're particularly common on rural highways or in lower income towns. The shrines can be devoted to cult's saints or those who died tragically. These animitas identify the spot where a body and soul were separate and where a soul can possibly be lingering.\n\nThe Chiloé archipelago is located in southern Chile and is home to the Churches of Chiloé. These churches date back to the early 17th century. Their history began when the first Jesuits arrived in Chile. There are more than 60 churches, but 16 of them are recognized as world heritage sites by UNESCO as well as national monuments in Chile. The Achao church is the oldest church that still stands and was built entirely without using nails.\n\nSpanish is the official language of Chile, with more than 99% of the population speaking it. Thousands of Chileans also speak indigenous languages. These indigenous languages include Mapudungun (Mapuche), Chesungun, Aymara, Quechua, and Rapi Nui. Despite the plethora of languages spoken in Chile, one aspect that makes it culturally homogeneous is the lack of accents throughout the Regions. The spoken language of middle-class Chileans from all over the country is nonexistent. The area where there is a notable difference in accents is in the different social classes. The difference in Chilean Spanish is the speed at which Chileans speak as well as incorporating many words from the language of the Mapuches.\n\nSame-sex marriage is currently illegal in Chile. However, Chile decriminalized same-sex marriage in 1999 and has approved civil unions since 2015. In 2017, former Chilean president Michelle Bachlete did attempt to legalize same-sex marriage by introducing a bill to have it legalized. Chile is beginning to loosen its conservative LGBT laws. In 2018, Chile approved a law allowing children who are over the age of 14 to change their name or gender on official records.\n\nSalvador Allende was elected to presidency as a Marxist in 1970. Allende worked to reshape Chile with radical social reform with programs to instill strong nationalist traditions. However, a violent coup was staged by General Augusto Pinochet in 1973 and left over 3,000 people dead or unaccounted for.. Pinochet ruled for 17 years until 1989 when elections returned the country to civilian rule. Chile is a democratic country. Similar to the Unites States, Chile has three branches of government: Legislative, Judicial, and Executive. Chile has remained a relatively peaceful country within a continent plagued by political corruption and violence. Sebastian Pinera is the current President of Chile after winning elections in 2017. He also served as Chile's President from 2010 to 2014 Chilean presidents are elected by popular vote.\nChile has long been in conflict with Bolivia over coastal and land sovereignty. The War of the Pacific was fought between Chile, Bolivia, and Peru in the late 1800s. Peru and Bolivia had rich nitrate deposits. However, Peru established a monopoly over their state deposits and Bolivia added export tariffs to Chile. After the war, Chile had won 120,000 sq km of land that included Antofagasta on the coastline of Bolivia. This has left Bolivia landlocked since 1904. \nBolivia still fights for coastal and territorial sovereignty. Evo Morales, the president of Bolivia, believes that Bolivia being landlocked has made the country endure great \"historical injustice\". Morales also argues that if Chile were to give back Antofagasta, it would have no significant effect on their country. The land Bolivia lost to Chile more than a century ago is now home to some of the biggest copper mines in the world. Chile has no desire or intentions of giving up any land to Bolivia, but Chile is very open to coastal access negotiations. \nIn October 2018, the International Court of Justice has ruled against Bolivia in its dispute with Chile. The court ruled that Chile did not have to discuss granting Bolivia sea access.\n\nThere have been long arguments between Chileans and Peruvians since the 1800s. This is because they both claim boundary coastal lines. Peruvians claim the Northern part of Chile, which is now South West of Peru. The \"triangulation\" was made to fix the boundary problem between Chile and Peru. The decisions were accomplished on January 27, 1839 by the International Court of Justice The War of the Pacific was in the years 1879-1883. This was caused because of the minerals resources Chile had. This led for Chile to control Sea Shipping to Peru and send out an army to invade Peru on October 8, 1879. The attempt was also made to The United States but failed badly on October 1880. There was a resistance between Peruvians and Chileans for a few years. The United States offered help with a treaty for both Peru and Chile, better known as the Treaty of Ancón. This was signed by both of them on October 20, 1883, to keep the peace between them. In 2008, Peru took Chile to court over their maritime disputes. In 2014, the International Court of Justice's ruling resulted in Chile losing 80 miles from Chile's northwestern ocean zone. This ruling severely impacted fishers in the country.\n\nChile despite being a small country has had borders disputes with other countries as well. One of those countries is Argentina. The border disputes between Chile and Argentina deal with the Patagonia region. One of the many disputes deals with the Southern ice-fields. The disagreements began when Argentina maps started to include part of the Southern Ice-fields. The dispute between these two countries deals with water, as this contested land contains one of the biggest (Second largest) reserves of potable water in the world. Despite these differing ideas about what land belongs to which country, the President of Chile claims that these issues will get resolved.\n\nAgriculture comprises 4.4% of GDP (industry 31.4%, services 64.3%). A 2017 estimate has 8.881 million people working within the Chilean labor force, and 9.2% working within agriculture by occupation. Chile's labor force places #59 in the country comparison list according to CIA World Factbook. Chile currently utilizes 14,015 Hectares of agricultural land . Chilean agriculture includes the cultivation and trade of grapes, apples, pears, onions, wheat, corn, oats, peaches, garlic, asparagus, and beans. Grapes are the largest fruit export product with an export value of $1.76 billion. Non-animal foods, fruit, and vegetable exports total about $11.7 billion. Beef and poultry industries, fish, wool and timber are also included. Animal products have an export value of $5.89 billion. Water heavy industries are causing groundwater, lake, and river depletion in Chile. Illegal water extractions are now becoming common in Chile. Exploiting the country's water has been detrimental to the citizens and animals that rely on these sources of water.\n\nLocated on the west coast of South America, Chile has a total area of 756,102 sq km. There are four climates that separate Chile. One of these climates is the Dry climate. This is located the North above Santiago called Atacama Desert with the temperature of up to 90°F. The Central part of Chile has a warmer climate that reaches up to 82.4 ° F. The inner region of Chile has a snow climate. South of Chile there is a wet climate because of the Mediterranean Coastline this leading the Wet Season to range from May to August. Summer in Chile is December through February. Leading for the Winter to be June through August with low temperatures up to -2° C. \n\nAs of 2011, Chile allocates 21.1% of its land to agriculture. Chile's allocation percentage is smaller than it's neighboring countries Argentina (53.9%) and Bolivia (34.3%), but larger than Peru's (18.8%). Of the land Chile devotes to agriculture, only 1.7% is arable land. Chile's diverse climate and small area is responsible for such a low percentage. Some desert countries like Egypt have a higher arable land percentage than Chile.\n\nChile maintains a market-oriented economy with high levels of foreign trade compounded by strong financial institutions. These factors have given Chile the highest sovereign bond rating in South America. Chile is committed to a trade liberalization and has 26 trade agreements covering 60 different countries. In May 2010 Chile became the first South American member of OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development). Chile's top 3 importing partners are China, the United States, and Brazil. In November 2005, Chile and China signed the China-Chile Free Trade Agreement. More than 90% of Chile's imports enter China duty-free.\nThe United States-Chile Free Trade Agreement began in 2004. Since 2015, 100% of U.S. imports have been entering Chile duty-free. Consumer and Industrial export products enter Chile duty-free as well. Since 2017, Chile and Brazil have been negotiating a trade deal that's on track to be signed by the end of 2018. Chile's top 3 exporting partners are China, the United States, and Japan. Chile and Japan were previously in Economic Partnership Agreements. In 2018, Chile and Japan were among the 11 nations that signed the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for the Trans-Pacific Partnership. This trade pact aims to reduce tariffs, enforce environmental standards, and remove barrier regulations.\n\nTotal trade exports from Chile generated $64.51 Billion in 2017 (in U.S. dollars) placing Chile at number 43 on the World Comparison Chart . Goods and services account for one-third of GDP within Chile. Copper is Chile's top export and injects nearly 20% of all government revenue Chile exports majority of its copper to China.\n\nIn 2017, Chilean imports totaled $61.31 billion and the country was the 49th largest importer in the world. Chile's largest import products include vehicles and petroleum products. Chile also runs a positive trade balance. \nAfter a 12 year break, Chile is set to resume importing natural gas from Argentina. The natural gas will be piped across Andes mountains to the southern province of Biobío in Chile.\n\n\n\n\n\nChile's literacy rate is more than 97%. A 97% literacy rate makes Chile the most literate country in Latin America. In the year 2000, 99% of kids ages 6-13 were enrolled in primary education and 90% of kids 13-18 were enrolled in secondary education. In 2003, Chile furthered their education by making education from ages 6-18 mandatory. A majority of education is free in Chile, as schooling is the responsibility of the state and education is paid for with special education vouchers. These vouchers are provided for free by the Chilean government. These vouchers are similar to what a number of European countries use. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12489165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12489165", "title": "Hans Pothorst", "text": "Hans Pothorst\n\nHans Pothorst ( 1440 – 1490) was a privateer, likely from the German city Hildesheim. He is mostly notable because some have proposed that he may have discovered America along with Didrik Pining (among others) in the 1470s, almost twenty years before Columbus.\n\nIn what little is known about Pothorst, he is often linked with Didrik Pining. Like Pining, Pothorst was likely from Hildesheim. Pothorst's service on the Hamburg warship \"Bastian\", seems to have been officially terminated on 1 July 1473. Sometime in the 1470s, Pining, Pothorst and Corte-Real were sent by King Christian I of Denmark on a naval expedition to the North-Atlantic. During the later years of the reign of Christian I, Pothorst and Pining are said to have distinguished themselves \"not less as capable seamen than as matchless freebooters.\"\n\nPothorst's home in Denmark is presumed to have been Helsingør, where his coat of arms and a simple portrait was painted (possibly shortly after his death) among eight ceiling frescoes in the local St. Mary's Church. The ceiling ensemble remains one of the most celebrated 15th century Danish artworks, and if Pothorst funded its creation as it has been assumed, historians note that he must have been rather wealthy.\n\nLater, he is mentioned as a privateer, and in the Skibby Chronicle Pothorst and Pining are mentioned among many pirates who \"met with a miserable death, being either slain by their friends or hanged on the gallows or drowned in the waves of the sea.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15337342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15337342", "title": "ISO 3166-2:UY", "text": "ISO 3166-2:UY\n\nISO 3166-2:UY is the entry for Uruguay in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Uruguay, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 19 departments.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Uruguay. The second part is two letters.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21211375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21211375", "title": "Index of Marshall Islands-related articles", "text": "Index of Marshall Islands-related articles\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of topics related to the Republic of the Marshall Islands.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56168239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56168239", "title": "Index of Sri Lanka-related articles (O)", "text": "Index of Sri Lanka-related articles (O)\n\nThis page lists Sri Lanka-related articles with titles beginning with an alphabet letter O.\n\n"}
{"id": "34965510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34965510", "title": "Indian Institute of Surveying &amp; Mapping", "text": "Indian Institute of Surveying &amp; Mapping\n\nThe Indian Institute of Surveying & Mapping (IISM)(Hindi:भारतीय सर्वेक्षण एवम् मानचित्रण संस्थान) was founded on 6 May 1967 is an institution of Survey Education learning and training. This institute formerly known as Survey Training Institute. It is situated in Survey of India(भारतीय सर्वेक्षण विभाग) campus in Uppal, Hyderabad.\n\nSurvey of India, the National Survey Organisation of Government of India was established in 1767. In the last two and a quarter centuries, the entire country has been mapped with utmost dedication and hard work by a distinguished line of surveyors. In Post-independence India, the developmental activities and need for defence preparedness brought urgent need to impart training to officers and staff in various aspects of surveying and mapping with state-of-the-art technologies. With this objective, the Centre for Survey Training and Map Production was established at Hyderabad in 1967 with a Human Resource Development Institute within Survey of India under technical assistance from United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The Indian Institute of Surveying & Mapping(erstwhile Survey Training Institute) thus raised on 6 May 1967 is now recognized as the prestigious training establishment in the field of Surveying and Cartography to impart training to the Officers and Staff of Survey of India and other Government Organisations, Private Individuals, and Scholars from other Afro-Asian countries.\n\nIntroduction of innovative surveying systems such as GPS, EDM, digital levels and theodolites, Laser scanners, digital sensors, high resolution satellite imageries etc., has revolutionised the scope of spatial data collection. However, on account of deficiencies in our system of Survey Education and practices, many of these technologies have yet to acquire the status of enabling technology in India.\n\nBroadly, the ethos can be attributed to two main reasons - the Survey Education, by itself, being not popular as a discipline of science and there being no regularatory standards to control the practices of collecting spatial data. A lot of spatial data being generated by various institutions using high-end technology by untrained manpower, being inconsistent in accuracies and unrelated to any meta-data standards on account of lack of professional supervision, cannot be put to universal use in a multi-disciplinary environment.\n\nSuch efforts, although meeting a limited requirement, do not contribute to the national need of a standardised spatial data base and are often found wanting in accuracy when integrated with a regional or national perspective. For deriving full benefits and optimising the use of resources, knowledge of the fundamentals of land surveying and various methodologies of interfacing them with the new technologies has, therefore, become an inescapable requirement for all technologists and planners engaged in generation and manipulation of spatial information.\n\nSurvey Education deals with the concepts and methodologies of gathering, processing and representing geo-spatial data in a defined form and format. It encompasses education on theories and practices in disciplines of geodesy, geo-physics, photogrammetry, land surveying, cartography and reprography. With the introduction of computers and change of emphasis from analogue to digital technology and high expectations from GIS, computer sciences and various systems for generation of spatial data bases have become an integral part of survey education.\n\nTo keep pace with the present day requirement of spatial data, education on the modern tools of data gathering such as GPS, Digital Photogrammetry, laser ranging, remote sensing etc., and associated technologies in visualization of spatial data, has acquired a special place in Survey Education. Despite the sophistication in technology, need-based emphasis on accuracies, reliability and consistency in data generation remain the cardinal principle in Survey Education.\n\n"}
{"id": "712865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=712865", "title": "Israel Finkelstein", "text": "Israel Finkelstein\n\nIsrael Finkelstein (, born March 29, 1949) is an Israeli archaeologist and academic. He is the Jacob M. Alkow Professor of the Archaeology of Israel in the Bronze and Iron Ages at Tel Aviv University. Finkelstein is widely regarded as a leading scholar in the archaeology of the Levant and a foremost applicant of archaeological data in reconstructing biblical history. He is also known for applying the exact and life sciences in archaeological and historical reconstruction. Finkelstein is the excavator of Megiddo – a key site for the study of the Bronze and Iron Ages in the Levant.\n\nFinkelstein is a member of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities and a 'correspondent étranger' of the French Académie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres. Finkelstein has received many prestigious academic and writing awards. In 2005, he won the Dan David Prize for his impact and radical revision of the history of Israel in the 10th and 9th centuries BCE. In 2009 he was named Chevalier de l’Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by the French Minister of Culture, and in 2010, received a Doctorate honoris causa from the University of Lausanne. He is a member of the selection committee of the Shanghai Archaeology Forum, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.\n\nAmong Finkelstein's books are the best sellers \"The Bible Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of its Sacred Texts\" (2001) and \"David and Solomon: In Search of the Bible's Sacred Kings and the Roots of the Western Tradition\" (2006), both written with Neil Asher Silberman. Also well-known are the textbooks on the emergence of Ancient Israel, titled \"The Archaeology of the Israelite Settlement\" (1988); on the archaeology and history of the arid zones of the Levant, titled \"Living on the Fringe\" (1995); and on the Northern Kingdom of Israel, titled \"The Forgotten Kingdom\" (2013).\n\nIsrael Finkelstein was born in Tel Aviv, Israel, on March 29, 1949. His parents were Zvi (Grisha) Finkelstein (born 1908) and Miriam Finkelstein (maiden name Ellenhorn, born 1910). His great grandfather on his mother's side, Shlomo Ellenhorn, came to Palestine from Grodno (today in Belarus) in the 1850s and settled in Hebron. He was one of the first physicians in the Bikur Cholim Hospital in Jerusalem, and is listed among the group of people who purchased the land in 1878 in order to establish Petah Tikva – the first modern Jewish settlement in Palestine outside the four holy cities. Finkelstein's grandfather, Israel Jacob Ellenhorn, was the first pharmacist in Petah Tikva.\n\nFinkelstein’s father was born in Melitopol (Ukraine). He came to Palestine with his family in 1920. He was in the orange-growing business and was active in the sports organizations of Israel. He served as vice chairman of the Israel Football Association, chairman of Maccabi Israel and was a member of the Israel Olympic Committee.\n\nFinkelstein is married to Joelle (maiden name Cohen). They are the parents of two daughters – Adar (born 1992) and Sarai (born 1996).\n\nIsrael Finkelstein attended the PICA elementary school (1956–1963) and Ahad Ha'am High School (1963–1967), both in Petah Tikva. He then served in the Israel Defense Forces (1967–1970). He studied archaeology and Near Eastern civilizations, and geography at Tel Aviv University, receiving his BA in 1974. While there, Finkelstein was a student of Prof. Yohanan Aharoni. He continued as a research student under the supervision of Prof. Moshe Kochavi, receiving his MA in 1978 (thesis on Rural Settlement in the Yarkon Basin in the Iron Age and Persian-Hellenistic Periods). He graduated as a PhD in 1983 with a thesis titled The Izbet Sartah Excavations and the Israelite Settlement in the Hill Country.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1990, Finkelstein taught at the Department of Land of Israel Studies, Bar-Ilan University, beginning as a teaching assistant. He spent the academic year of 1983–84 in a research group led by Prof. Yigael Yadin in the Institute of Advanced Studies in the Hebrew University, Jerusalem. In 1986 and 1987, Finkelstein taught at the Department for Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, University of Chicago. In 1987 he was appointed an associate professor with tenure at Bar-Ilan University and in 1990 moved to the Department of Archaeology and Ancient Near Eastern Civilizations at Tel Aviv University. In 1992/93 Finkelstein spent a sabbatical year as a visiting scholar at the Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, Harvard University. Since 1992, he has been a Full Professor at Tel Aviv University. He served as the chairperson of the Department of Archaeology and Near Eastern Studies (1994–98) and as Director of The Sonia and Marco Nadler Institute of Archaeology (1996–2003). In 1998–99 Finkelstein was a visiting scholar in the Centre de Recherche d’Archéologie Orientale and the École Pratique des Hautes Études in the Sorbonne, Paris.\n\nFinkelstein delivered series of lectures on the history and archaeology of Ancient Israel at the Texas Christian University (2002), the University of Buenos Aires (2011), the College de France in Paris (2012) and the Methodist University of São Paulo (2015). He is scheduled to deliver similar lectures at the Tokyo Christian University (2017) and the Pontifical Biblical Institute in Rome (2017). Finkelstein has read over 100 papers in international conferences and given numerous talks in universities around the globe.\n\nFinkelstein has been the Editor of Tel Aviv, the journal of the Institute of Archaeology of Tel Aviv University, since 2008 and Executive Editor of the Monograph Series by the Institute of Archaeology, Tel Aviv University, since 2005. He is a member of editorial boards, including the Palestine Exploration Journal and the Archaeology and Biblical Studies series, the Society of Biblical Literature.\n\nFinkelstein was trained as a field archaeologist in the excavations of Tel Beer Sheva (1971, Director: Yohanan Aharoni) and Tel Aphek (1973–1978, Directors: Moshe Kochavi and Pirhiya Beck). Starting in 1976, he carried out his own fieldwork in a variety of sites and regions:\n\n‘Izbet Sartah, 1976–1978: Field Director (under Prof. Moshe Kochavi) of excavations at ‘Izbet Sartah, an Iron I-Iron IIA village-site near Rosh Ha‘ayin, east of Tel Aviv. For the results see: I. Finkelstein, Izbet Sartah: An Early Iron Age Site near Rosh Ha‘ayin, Israel, Oxford 1986 (BAR International Series 299).\n\nSouthern Sinai, 1976–1978: Surveys of Byzantine monastic remains in southern Sinai. For the results see: I. Finkelstein, Byzantine Monastic Remains in Southern Sinai, Dumbarton Oaks Papers 39 (1985), pp. 39–75.\n\nBene Beraq, 1977: Director of salvage excavations at the mound of ancient Bene Beraq near Tel Aviv. For the results see: I. Finkelstein, Soundings at Ancient Bene-Beraq, ‘Atiqot 10 (1990), pp. 29–40 (Hebrew).\n\nTel Ira, 1980: Co-Director of the excavations of the Iron II site of Tel Ira in the Beer-sheba Valley (together with I. Beit-Arieh and B. Cresson). For the results see: I. Finkelstein and I. Beit-Arieh, Area E, in I. Beit-Arieh (ed.), Tel Ira: A Stronghold in the Biblical Negev (monograph Series of the Institute of Archaeology Tel Aviv University 15), Tel Aviv 1999, pp. 67–96.\n\nShiloh, 1981–1984: Director of the excavations at biblical Shiloh in the highlands north of Jerusalem. The site features Middle Bronze, Late Bronze and Iron I remains. For the results see: I. Finkelstein (ed.), Shiloh: The Archaeology of a Biblical Site (Monograph Series of the Institute of Archaeology Tel Aviv University 10), Tel Aviv 1993.\n\nSouthern Samaria Survey, 1981–1987: Director of the survey, ca. 1000 km. in the highlands north of Jerusalem. For the results see: I. Finkelstein, Z. Lederman and S. Bunimovitz, Highlands of Many Cultures, The Southern Samaria Survey, The Sites (Monograph Series of the Institute of Archaeology Tel Aviv University 14). Tel Aviv\n\nKhirbet ed-Dawwara, 1985–86: Director, excavations at Khirbet ed-Dawwara, an Iron I-early Iron IIA site in the desert fringe northeast of Jerusalem. For the results see: I. Finkelstein, Excavations at Kh. ed-Dawwara: An Iron Age Site Northeast of Jerusalem, Tel Aviv 17 (1990), pp. 163–208.\n\nDhahr Mirzbaneh, 1987: Sounding at the Intermediate Bronze site of Dhahr Mirzbaneh in the desert fringe northeast of Jerusalem. For the results see: I. Finkelstein, The Central Hill Country in the Intermediate Bronze Age, Israel Exploration Journal 41 (1991), pp. 19–45.\n\nMegiddo, 1994–present: co-Director, the Megiddo Excavations (1994–2012 with David Ussishkin, since 2014 with Matthew J. Adams and Mario A.S. Martin). Megiddo is considered as one of the most important Bronze and Iron Age sites in the Levant. For the results see: I. Finkelstein, D. Ussishkin and B. Halpern (eds.), Megiddo III: The 1992–1996 Seasons (Monograph Series of the Institute of Archaeology Tel Aviv University 18). Tel Aviv 2000. I. Finkelstein, D. Ussishkin and B. Halpern (eds.), Megiddo IV: The 1998–2002 Seasons (Monograph Series of the Institute of Archaeology Tel Aviv University 24), Tel Aviv 2006. I. Finkelstein, D. Ussishkin and E.H. Cline (editors), Megiddo V: The 2004–2008 Seasons (Monograph Series of the Institute of Archaeology Tel Aviv University 31), Winona Lake 2013. I. Finkelstein, M.A.S. Martin and M.J. Adams (eds.), Megiddo VI: The 2010–2014 Seasons (forthcoming).\n\nThe Negev Highlands, 2006–present: co-Director of excavations in the Iron Age sites of Atar Haroa and Nahal Boqer, and the Intermediate Bronze Age sites of Mashabe Sade and En Ziq (with Ruth Shahack-Gross). For the results see: R. Shahack-Gross and I. Finkelstein, Settlement Oscillations in the Negev Highlands Revisited: The Impact of Microarchaeological Methods, Radiocarbon 57/2 (2015), pp. 253–264.\n\nKiriath-Jearim, 2017: co-Director, the Shmunis Family excavations at Kiriath-Jearim – a key biblical site in the highlands west of Jerusalem associated with the Ark Narrative in the Book of Samuel (with Christophe Nicolle and Thomas Römer, the College de France).\n\n\n\nFinkelstein has written on a variety of topics, including the archaeology of the Bronze Age and the exact and life sciences contribution to archaeology. Still, much of his work has been devoted to the Iron Age and, more specifically, to questions related to the history of Ancient Israel.\n\nThe classical theories on the emergence of Israel viewed the process as a unique event in the history of the region. Finkelstein suggested that we are dealing with a long-term process of a cyclical nature. He demonstrated that the wave of settlement in the highlands in the Iron Age I (ca. 1150-950 BCE) was the last in a series of such demographic developments – the first had taken place in the Early Bronze and the second in the Middle Bronze. The periods between these peaks were characterized by low settlement activity. Finkelstein explained these oscillations as representing changes along the sedentary/ pastoral-nomadic continuum, which were caused by socioeconomic and political dynamics. Hence, a big portion of the people who settled in the highlands in the early Iron Age were locals of a pastoral-nomadic background. Others, who originated from local sedentary background, moved to the highlands as a result of the Bronze Age collapse – which in turn was related to a long period of dry climate in ca. 1250-1100 BCE. Since eventually these groups formed the Northern Kingdom of Israel, they can be labeled \"Israelites\" as early as their initial settlement process. The same holds true for the contemporary settlement process in Transjordan and western Syria, which brought about the rise of Moab, Ammon and the Aramean kingdoms of the later phases of the Iron Age.\n\nFinkelstein regards the biblical account on the Conquest of Canaan in the Book of Joshua as an ideological manifesto of the Deuteronomistic author/s of the late 7th century BCE, describing a \"conquest to be\" under King Josiah of Judah rather than a historical event at the end of the Bronze Age. He proposed that the original Conquest Account may have originated in the Northern Kingdom of Israel in the early 8th century BCE; it could have been influenced by memories of the turmoil that had taken place in the lowlands in the late Iron I (10th century BCE), rather than the end of the Late Bronze Age (late 12th century BCE).\n\nUntil the 1990s, the chronology of the Iron Age in the Levant had been anchored in the biblical account of the great United Monarchy of David and Solomon. Accordingly, the Iron I ended ca. 1000 BCE and the Iron IIA was dated from 1000 BCE until the campaign of Pharaoh Sheshonq I (biblical Shishak) ca. 925 BCE. The two Iron IIA palaces at Megiddo were conceived as the material manifestation for the Solomonic Empire. While preparing for the excavations at Megiddo in the early 1990s, Finkelstein noticed difficulties in this scheme. Noteworthy among them is the appearance of similar traits of material culture at Megiddo in a layer that was dated to the time of King Solomon in the middle of the 10th century, and at Samaria and Jezreel in contexts dated to the time of the Omride Dynasty (of the Northern Kingdom of Israel) in the early 9th century BCE. To resolve these difficulties, Finkelstein proposed to \"lower\" the dates of the Iron Age strata in the Levant by several decades.\n\nAccording to Finkelstein's Low Chronology, the Iron Age I lasted until the middle of the 10th century BCE, while the Iron IIA is dated between the middle of the 10th century and ca. 800 BCE, if not slightly later. This means that the Megiddo palaces and other features which had traditionally been attributed to the time of King Solomon – features which date to the late Iron IIA – should indeed be associated with the endeavors of the Omride Dynasty in the first half of the 9th century BCE. A big debate ensued. Starting in the late 1990s, the focus of the discussion shifted to the interpretation of radiocarbon determinations for organic samples from key sites, such as Tel Rehov and Megiddo. All in all, the radiocarbon results put the Iron I/IIA transition ca. the middle of the 10th century (rather than 1000 BCE as had traditionally been proposed), and the Iron IIA/B transition in the early days of the 8th century (rather than ca. 925 BCE).\n\nIn parallel, and not directly connected, Finkelstein dealt with the chronology of Philistine pottery of the Iron Age I. The traditional theory fixed the appearance of Philistine pottery – and hence the settlement of the Philistines in the southern coastal plain of the Levant – in accordance with the confrontation between Ramses III and the Sea Peoples in the early 12th century BCE. In other words, Philistine pottery appears during the last phase of Egyptian rule in Canaan. Finkelstein proposed that the locally-made Monochrome pottery known from several sites in Philistia, which is widely understood as representing the earliest phase of Philistine settlement, should be dated after the withdrawal of Egypt from Canaan in the 1130s.\n\nFinkelstein sees the biblical description of the time of David and Solomon as multilayered. He acknowledges the historicity of the founders of the Davidic Dynasty, places them in the 10th century BCE, and considers the possibility that the description of the rise of David to power conceals old memories of his activity as a leader of an Apiru-band that was active in the southern fringe of Judah. Yet, he sees the description of a great United Monarchy as an ideological construct that represents the ideology of late-monarchic author/s in the late 7th century BCE, first and foremost the pan-Israelite ideology of the days of King Josiah of Judah. According to him, the historical David and Solomon ruled over a small territory in the southern highlands – a territory not very different from that of Jerusalem of the Late Bronze Age. Finkelstein sees much of the description of King Solomon as representing realities from late monarchic times: First, from the later days of the Northern Kingdom (for instance, the reference to Megiddo, Hazor and Gezer in 1 Kings 9:15 and to the stables, horses and chariots of Solomon). Second, from the time of King Manasseh of Judah in the early 7th century BCE, under Assyrian domination (for instance, the visit of the Queen of Sheba in Jerusalem). He understands the description of the Philistines in the Bible as portraying realities in Philistia in late-monarchic times.\n\nFollowing the results of the excavations at Megiddo, Finkelstein argued that the material culture of the Iron I in the northern valleys continues that of the Late Bronze Age. In other words, the collapse of the Late Bronze city-states under Egyptian domination in the late 12th century BCE was followed by revival of some of the same centers and rise of others in the Iron I. He termed this phenomenon \"New Canaan\". Accordingly, the major break in the material culture of Canaan took place at the end of the Iron I in the 10th century BCE rather than the end of the Late Bronze Age. Finkelstein associated the violent destruction of the revived city-states with the expansion of the highlanders (early Israelites). He suggested that memories of the turmoil in the lowlands in the late Iron I can be found in northern traditions regarding skirmishes with Canaanite cities which appear in the heroic stories in the Book of Judges.\n\nFinkelstein dealt with a variety of themes related to the archeology and history of the Northern Kingdom of Israel. He proposed that the first North Israelite territorial polity emerged in the Gibeon-Bethel plateau in the late Iron I and early Iron IIA. He found archaeological evidence for this in the system of fortified sites, such as Tell en-Nasbeh, Khirbet ed-Dawwara, et-Tell (\"Ai\") and Gibeon. Historical evidence for the existence of this polity can be found in the campaign of Pharaoh Sheshoqn I in this region in the middle-to-second half of the 10th century BCE. According to Finkelstein, positive memories in the Bible of the House of Saul, which originated from the North, represent this early Israelite entity. He suggested that this north Israelite polity ruled over much of the territory of the highlands, that it presented a threat to the interests of Egypt of the 22nd Dynasty in Canaan, and that it was taken over during the campaign of Sheshonq I.\n\nFinkelstein proposed that in its early days, the Northern Kingdom (Jeroboam I and his successors) ruled over the Samaria Highlands, the western slopes of the Gilead and the area of the Jezreel Valley. The expansion of Israel further to the north came during the days of the Omride Dynasty in the first half of the 9th century BCE, and even more so in the time of Jeroboam II in the first half of the 8th century BCE. Finkelstein described the special features of \"Omride Architecture\" and, with his Megiddo team, dealt with different subjects related to the material culture of the Northern Kingdom, such as metallurgy and cult practices.\n\nFinkelstein also reflected on biblical traditions related to the Northern Kingdom, such as the Jacob cycle in Genesis (a study carried out with Thomas Römer), the Exodus tradition, the heroic stories in the Book of Judges and remnants of royal traditions in the Books of Samuel and Kings. He suggested that these North Israelite traditions were first committed to writing in the days of Jeroboam II (first half of the 8th century BCE), that they were brought to Judah with Israelite refugees after the takeover of Israel by Assyria, and that they were later incorporated into the Judahite-dominated Bible. Finkelstein sees the biblical genre of deploying \"history\" in the service of royal ideology as emerging from Israel (the North) of the 8th century BCE.\n\nFinkelstein has recently dealt with the location of the ancient mound of Jerusalem (with Ido Koch and Oded Lipschits). The conventional wisdom sees that \"City of David\" ridge as the location of the original settlement of Jerusalem. Finkelstein and his colleagues argued that the \"City of David\" ridge does not have the silhouette of a mound; that it is located in topographical inferiority relative to the surrounding area; and that the archaeological record of the ridge does not include periods of habitation attested in reliable textual records. According to them, the most suitable location for the core of ancient Jerusalem is the Temple Mount. The large area of the Herodian platform (today's Harem esh-Sharif) may conceal a mound of five hectares and more, which – similar to other capital cities in the Levant – included both the royal compound and habitation quarters. Locating the mound of Ancient Jerusalem on the Temple Mound resolves many of the difficulties pertaining to the \"City of David\" ridge.\n\nAccording to Finkelstein, the history of Jerusalem in biblical times should be viewed in terms of three main phases:\n\nFirstly, until the 9th century BCE, Jerusalem was restricted to the mound on the Temple Mount and ruled over a modest area in the southern highlands. Accordingly, Jerusalem of the time of David and Solomon can be compared to Jerusalem of the Amarna period in the 14th century BCE: it had the size of a typical highlands mound (for instance, Shechem), ruled over a restricted area, but still had impact beyond the highlands.\n\nSecondly, the first expansion of Jerusalem came in the 9th century BCE, perhaps in its second half, when the town grew significantly in a southerly direction. Remains of the Iron IIA were unearthed south of al-Aqsa Mosque, above the Gihon Spring and to the south of the Dung Gate of the Old City. In parallel to this development, Judah expanded to the Shephelah in the west and Beer-sheba Valley in the south, and for the first time became a territorial kingdom rather than a city-state restricted to the highlands.\n\nThirdly, the most impressive phase in the settlement history of Jerusalem commenced in the late 8th century BCE and lasted until its destruction by the Babylonians in 586 BCE. At that time Jerusalem expanded dramatically, to include the entire \"City of David\" ridge, as well as the \"Western Hill\" (the Armenian and Jewish Quarter of today's Old City). This expansion was the result of the arrival of Israelite refugees after the demise of the Northern Kingdom in 722-720 BCE. These groups brought with them traits of Northern material culture, and more important – their foundation myths, royal traditions and heroic stories. These Northern traditions were later incorporated into the Judahite Bible.\n\nFinkelstein noted that in the Persian Period, Jerusalem was limited to the mound on the Temple Mount – and even there was sparsely settled – and that Yehud of that time was also thinly settled. As the description of the construction of the wall of Jerusalem in Nehemiah 3 must relate to the big city (extending beyond the old mound on the Temple Mount), it probably portrays the construction of the fortifications by the Hasmoneans.\n\nFinkelstein further noted that many of the sites mentioned in the lists of returnees in Ezra and Nehemiah were not inhabited in the Persian Period and hence sees these lists as reflecting the demographic situation in days of the Hasmoneans. The same holds true, in his opinion, for the genealogies in 1 Chronicles. Finkelstein then looked into the accounts of Judahite monarchs in 2 Chronicles, which do not appear in Kings. He called attention to similarities between these texts and 1 Maccabees, and proposed to understand Chronicles as representing legitimacy needs of the Hasmoneans. This means that at least 2 Chronicles dates to the late 2nd century BCE, probably to the days of John Hyrcanus.\n\nIn addition to the reports of excavations cited above:\n\n350 scholarly articles; for a large number of them see: https://telaviv.academia.edu/IsraelFinkelstein\n\nBene Israel: Studies in the Archaeology of Israel and the Levant during the Bronze and Iron Ages in Honour of Israel Finkelstein, Leiden and London 2008 (eds. Alexander Fantalkin and Assaf Yasur-Landau).\n\nFinkelstein is the Laureate of the Dan David Prize in 2005. The select committee noted that he is \"widely regarded as a leading scholar in the archaeology of the Levant and as a foremost applicant of archaeological knowledge to reconstructing biblical Israelite history. He excels at creatively forging links between archaeology and the exact sciences and he has revolutionized many of these fields. … Finkelstein has had an impact on radically revising the history of Israel in the 10th and 9th centuries BCE. He has transformed the study of history and archaeology in Israeli universities, moving from a ‘monumental’ to a ‘systemic’ study of the archaeological evidence. He has taken what was becoming a rather staid and conservative discipline, with everyone in general agreement as to interpretation of excavation results, and has turned things upside down. … The study of these periods is never again going to be what it once was. … Israel Finkelstein has proven to be creative, generating scholarship no less than discussion, launching ideas and stimulating debates, fearlessly but with imagination and grace.\" \n\nIn 2014, Finkelstein was awarded the Prix Delalande Guérineau: Institut de France, l'Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres, for his book Le Royaume biblique oublié (The Forgotten Kingdom).\n\nHis other awards include the French decoration of Chevalier de l’ordre des Arts et des Lettres, (2009) and the Doctorat honoris causa of the University of Lausanne (2010).\n\n\n\n\nAdditional stories and interviews in Commentary, La Croix, L’Express, Le Figaro, The Guardian, Haaretz, Harper’s, The Herald Tribune, The Jerusalem Post, The Jerusalem Report, Los Angeles Times, Marianne, National Geographic, the Smithsonian Magazine, Time, The Times, USA Today, U.S. News & World Report, The Washington Post, Live Science, and more.\n\nFour-hour ARTE documentary titled La Bible dévoilée, based on the book The Bible Unearthed.\nA great number of appearances in television documentaries produced by Discovery Channel, the BBC, PBS, ARTE, National Geographic, The History Channel, The Learning Channel, German TV programs, etc.\n\nSelected Documentaries, Interviews and Lectures on YouTube and other websites:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53135171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53135171", "title": "John Kemp (mathematician)", "text": "John Kemp (mathematician)\n\nProf John Kemp FRSE LLD (1763–1812) was a Scottish mathematician, who settled in New York for most of his life.\n\nHe was born on 10 April 1763 at Achlossan near Aboyne in Aberdeenshire, Scotland, the son of a farmer. He studied Mathematics at Aberdeen University and graduated in 1783. In the same year he emigrated to the United States of America, settling first in Virginia then moving to New York in 1785.\n\nIn 1786 he successfully applied to become Professor of Mathematics at Columbia College (later Columbia University), aged only 23. In 1795 he began teaching Geography in addition to Mathematics and in 1799 he also began teaching Natural Philosophy (Physics).\n\nIn 1792 he was elected a Foreign Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were James Gregory, Daniel Rutherford and John Playfair. He was not (as some records claim) one of the founders of the Society in 1783.\n\nIn 1810 he visited Lake Erie in relation to an assessment of the then-proposed canal project, and considered it wholly viable.\n\nHe died in New York on 15 November 1812 following a long illness. He married twice but both wives died. One daughter (by his first marriage) survived him.\n"}
{"id": "46833390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46833390", "title": "List of I'm Alan Partridge episodes", "text": "List of I'm Alan Partridge episodes\n\n\"I'm Alan Partridge\" is a BBC situation comedy starring Steve Coogan, of which two series of six episodes each were produced—the first in 1997 and the second in 2002. The series followed the titular Alan Partridge, a failed television presenter whose previous exploits had featured in the chat-show parody \"Knowing Me, Knowing You with Alan Partridge\", and who is now presenting a programme on local radio in Norwich.\n\nBoth series were written by Peter Baynham (who also appears in one episode), Coogan and Armando Iannucci; supporting Coogan were Felicity Montagu as his faithful but timid personal assistant, Lynn Benfield; Simon Greenall as Geordie Travel Tavern handyman/BP garage attendant Michael; and Phil Cornwell as disc jockey Dave Clifton.\n\nIt has been well received by both critics and fans, and was nominated for three BAFTAs (winning two), two British Comedy Award (winning both), and a Royal Television Society award.\n\nSeries one was first released on DVD in the UK in 2002 and in the United States on 24 October 2006. The DVD features additional scenes and two commentary tracks. One featuring standard commentary from the writers whilst the second features Coogan and Montagu 'in character' as Alan & Lynn discussing the events in the episodes and frequently arguing with each other.\n"}
{"id": "55249750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55249750", "title": "List of destinations served by ferries from the port of Piraeus", "text": "List of destinations served by ferries from the port of Piraeus\n\nMost islands on the Aegean Sea can be reached by ferry from the port of Piraeus in Athens. Please note that all of those services are subjected to changes in routing as well as the ferries operated.\n"}
{"id": "30008898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30008898", "title": "List of leaders of Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic", "text": "List of leaders of Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic\n\nThe following is a list of leaders of Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48957232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48957232", "title": "List of presidential trips made by Barack Obama during 2016", "text": "List of presidential trips made by Barack Obama during 2016\n\nThis is a list of presidential trips made by Barack Obama during 2016, the eighth year of his presidency as the 44th President of the United States.\n\nThis list excludes trips made within Washington, D.C., the U.S. federal capital in which the White House, the official residence and principal workplace of the President, is located. Also excluded are trips to Camp David, the country residence of the President, and to the private home of the Obama family in Kenwood, Chicago.\n\n"}
{"id": "28252543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28252543", "title": "List of religious centers in Tehran", "text": "List of religious centers in Tehran\n\nThis is a list of religious centers in Tehran, Iran.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17642618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17642618", "title": "Lists of country codes", "text": "Lists of country codes\n\nThis is a listing of lists of country codes:\n\n –\n"}
{"id": "5508703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5508703", "title": "Mudiriyah", "text": "Mudiriyah\n\nMudiriyah (, plural \"Mudiriyat\"), meaning \"directorate\" (from مدير \"mudir\", meaning \"director\"), is an administrative subdivision also known in English as mudirate, and often translated as \"province\". It was used in Egypt and in Anglo-Egyptian Sudan. The term was also used in Yemen. The mudiriya were subdivided into markaz, or districts. In modern Egypt, these subdivisions were replaced by governorates (\"muhafazat\").\n\n"}
{"id": "10600526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10600526", "title": "Municipalities of El Salvador", "text": "Municipalities of El Salvador\n\nThe departments of El Salvador are divided into 262 municipalities or \"municipios\". The municipalities are listed below, by department El Salvador is divided into fourteen administrative divisions called departments, the equivalent of states in the U.S. Each department is administered by a governor appointed by the president. An alternate for each governor is also designated. Governors must be Salvadoran by birth, at least 25, and residents of their department for at least two years prior to their appointment. \n\nBelow the departmental level, El Salvador is divided into 263 municipalities. Each is governed by a municipal council composed of a mayor (\"alcalde\"), a legal representative (\"sindico\"), and two or more council members (\"regidores\"). The number of members is determined by population. Members of the municipal councils must be both at least 21 and residents of the municipality.\n\nDirectly elected, municipal officials serve three-year terms and may be re-elected. Municipios are not all of equal size but are required to have a population of at least 10,000. Boundaries are determined by the Legislative Assembly. \n\nThe powers of local government are those given by the central government. Because department governors are appointed by the president, their independence is questionable. Despite their status as elected representatives, the powers of municipal officeholders are also limited in certain key areas. The most glaring example is taxation. \n\nAlthough the municipal councils are allowed to suggest local taxes and tax rates, only the Legislative Assembly has the power to levy the taxes. Therefore, all funds used by the councils are appropriated and disbursed by the assembly, but such funds are earmarked in the budget and are not incorporated into the central government's general fund.\n\nAmong the duties relegated to the municipal councils under the Salvadoran Municipal Code is the holding of town meetings (\"cabildos abiertos\") at least once every three months.\n\nThe council is enjoined from acting against the majority opinion expressed at the town meetings. The municipal councils also grant legal recognition (personalidad juridica) to communal associations in their municipios. The councils are required to meet periodically with representatives of the communal associations and to consult with them on the appointment of representatives to advisory and other local commissions. The councils also issue local ordinances and regulations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34423576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34423576", "title": "Names of Beijing", "text": "Names of Beijing\n\n\"Beijing\" is the atonal pinyin romanisation of the Mandarin pronunciation of the Chinese characters , the Chinese name of the capital of the People's Republic of China.\n\nThe spelling Beijing was adopted for use within China upon the approval of Hanyu Pinyin on February 11, 1958, during the Fifth Session of the 1st National People's Congress. It became obligatory for all foreign publications issued by the People's Republic on 1 January 1979. It was gradually adopted by various news organizations, governments, and international agencies over the next decade.\n\nThe Chinese characters (\"north\") and (\"capital\") together mean the \"Northern Capital\". The name was first used during the reign of the Ming dynasty's Yongle Emperor, who made his northern fief a second capital along with Nanjing (, the \"Southern Capital\") in 1403 after successfully dethroning his nephew during the Jingnan Campaign. The name was restored in 1949 at the founding of the People's Republic of China.\n\n\"Peking\" is a spelling created by French missionaries of the 17th and 18th centuries. In \"De Christiana expeditione apud Sinas\" (1615), Matteo Ricci calls the city \"Pechinum\". (The English translation gives \"Pequin\".) \"Peking\" appears in \"A Description of the Empire of China\" (1735) by Jean-Baptiste Du Halde. These early spellings may represent pronunciation in the Nanjing dialect, which was used as a lingua franca at this time, or the various other southern Chinese languages (e.g., Cantonese, Hokkien and Hakka) used by the traders of the port cities visited by early European traders. Peking was the English name of the city until the adoption of pinyin. However, it is still employed adjectivally in terms such as \"Pekingese\", \"Peking duck\", \"Peking Man\" and various others. The name remains in common and official use in many other languages.\n\nThe city has had many other names. The chronological list below sets out both the names of the city itself, and, in earlier times, the names of the administrative entities within the city today.\n\nIn Chinese, the abbreviation of Beijing is its second character (\"Capital\"). This is employed, for example, as the prefix on all Beijing-issued licence plates.\n\nIn the Latin alphabet, the official abbreviation are the two initials of the region's characters: BJ.\n\nBeijing Capital International Airport's IATA code is PEK, based on the former spelling Peking.\n\nIn addition to Nanjing, several other East Asian cities have similar names in Chinese characters despite appearing dissimilar in English transliteration. The most prominent is Tokyo, Japan, whose \"Han script\" name is written (\"Dongjing\", or \"Eastern Capital\"). was also a former name of Hanoi (as \"Đông Kinh\" or \"Tonkin\") in Vietnam during the Later Lê Dynasty. A former name of Seoul in South Korea was Gyeongseong, written in \"Han script\" as or \"Capital City\". Kyoto in Japan still bears the similar-meaning characters : the character \"都\", \"du\" in Chinese, can also mean \"capital\".\n\nThe history of China since the Tang dynasty has also been full of secondary capitals with directional names. Under the Tang, these were Beidu (\"north capital\", at Taiyuan in Shanxi); Nandu (\"south capital\", first, Chengdu in Sichuan and, later, Jiangling in Hubei); Dongdu (\"east capital\", Luoyang in Henan); and Xidu (\"west capital\", Fengxiang in Shaanxi).\n\nThere were two previous Beijings: one, the northern capital of the Northern Song at modern Daming in Hebei; the other, the northern capital of the Jurchen Jin located at Ningcheng in Inner Mongolia.\n\nThe Nanjing of the Northern Song was located at Shangqiu in Henan. The Jurchen Jin located theirs at Kaifeng,) which had been the Northern Song's \"Dongjing\". The Jurchen Jin also had a Dongjing (\"Eastern Capital\"), which was, however, located at Liaoyang in Liaoning. Apart from these, there were two Xijings (, \"Western Capital\"): one was the \"Western Capital\" of the Northern Song dynasty, located at Luoyang; the other was held by the Liao and Jurchen Jin at Datong. Liaoyang was the Zhongjing (, \"Central Capital\") of the Liao dynasty and, finally, another Zhongdu (\"Central Capital\") was planned but never completed. It was the proposed capital of the Ming Dynasty mooted by the Hongwu Emperor in the 14th century, to be located on the site of his destroyed childhood village of Zhongli (), now Fengyang in Anhui.\n"}
{"id": "22756330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22756330", "title": "Names of Singapore", "text": "Names of Singapore\n\nThe names of Singapore include the various historical appellations as well as contemporary names and nicknames in different languages used to describe the island, city or country of Singapore. A number of different names have been given to the settlement or the island of Singapore all through history, the earliest record may have been from the 2nd century AD. Possible mentions of Pulau Ujong, the name for the island of Singapore, may be found in Chinese works, and it was also referred to as Temasek in Malay and Javanese literature. Sometime in the 14 century the name was changed to Singapura, which is now rendered as Singapore in English. Singapura means \"Lion City\" in Sanskrit, and Sang Nila Utama is usually credited with naming the city, although its actual origin is uncertain.\n\nThe English language name Singapore comes from its Malay name \"Singapura\", which is derived from Sanskrit meaning \"Lion City\". \"Singa\" comes from the Sanskrit word \"siṃha\" (सिंह), which means \"lion\", and \"pūra\" (पुर) means \"city\" in Sanskrit and is a common suffix in many Indian place names. Sanskrit was used as it was considered for a long period the prestigious international language of the region. Sang Nila Utama, said to be the founder of Singapura in the late 13th century who gave the city its name, also acquired a Sanskrit name Sri Tri Buana. The name Singapura and its related forms were fairly common in early South East Asia, with a few cities given the same name – the earliest one known is \"Simhapura\" in what is now Vietnam established by the Cham people in the fifth century, others were found in Thailand and Java. The name also appears in Buddhist jataka tales and in the \"Ramayana\".\n\nAccording to the \"Malay Annals\", Singapore was named after a strange beast seen by Sri Tri Buana while hunting in Temasek, and he was informed that the beast must have been a lion. He then decided to stay in Temasek and named the city he founded Singapura or \"Lion City\". However, scholars have pointed out that lions are not native to Singapore or South East Asia, and the \"lion\" therefore would have been an error in identification. The \"Malay Annals\" describes the beast seen by Sri Tri Buana as a powerful, fast-moving and fine-looking animal with a \"red body, black head, and white breast\", and size \"slightly bigger than a goat.\" Some have suggested that it may have been a tiger or some other big cat that he saw and was misidentified. However, since tigers were native to the region, some thought it unlikely that Sri Tri Buana or his followers would not recognise a tiger to mistake it for a lion. It has also been suggested that the description of the beast in the \"Malay Annals\" fits a mythical beast called \"janggi\" told in Minangkabau legends as a guardian of gold mines.\n\nMany scholars, however, thought that the person Sri Tri Buana and the story of the founding of Singapura to be fictional, and a number of alternative suggestions for the origin of the name of Singapore have been given. For example, it has been proposed that the name was adopted by Parameswara to show that he was re-establishing in Singapore the lion throne that he had originally set up in Palembang. In this version of events, the lion throne was set up as a challenge to the Javanese Majapahit Empire, and the Javanese then drove Parameswara out of Palembang as a consequence of this defiance. Parameswara fled to Temasek, whereupon he assassinated the local ruler and usurped the throne. The change of name from Temasek to Singapura may therefore serve to strengthen his claim over the island. Others linked the name to the Javanese kingdom Singhasari as well as a Majapahit Buddhist sect whose adherents were referred to as lions. Some proposed alternative readings of the name Singapura; for example, it has been suggested that the \"singa\" in the name may simply be the Malay word \"singgah\" meaning \"stop over\" indicating it was a stopover place. Yet another, based on names found in some old maps, proposed that the name Singapura may have came from the strait as \"[bar]-čin-gapura\" (where \"čin\" is China and \"gopara\" is a \"gate\" in Sanskrit) meaning \"gateway to the port of China\". Although it is believed that the name Singapura replaced Temasek some time in the 14th century, the origin of the name cannot be determined with certainty.\n\nThe first possible written records of Singapore possibly date to the 2nd century, when the island was identified as a trading post in the maps of the Greek astronomer, Ptolemy. The map located a place called \"Sabara\" or \"Sabana\" in the southern tip of the Malay Peninsula (named the Golden Khersonese) where Singapore lies. However, identification of \"Sabana\" or \"Sabara\" varies according to different authors.\n\nA 3rd century Chinese written record describes the island of \"Puluozhong\" (), probably a transcription of the Malay \"Pulau Ujong\", \"island at the end\" (of the Malay peninsula). Ninth century Arab sailors recorded a place called the island of Ma'it, which could be Singapore. Arab sources also refer to a place called \"Betumah\" that some argued to be \"Bukit Timah\" (meaning \"tin hill\") of Singapore, or that it was sited at or near Singapore.\nIt was recorded that in 1320, the Mongol Yuan Dynasty sent a mission to obtain elephants from a place called \"Long Ya Men\" (), known locally as \"Batu Berlayar\" in Malay, which is believed to be Keppel Harbour.\n\nSingapore is referred to in old Javanese and Malay literature as Temasek. The \"Nagarakretagama\", a Javanese epic poem written in 1365, names a settlement on the island as \"Tumasik\". The name appears twice in the \"Malay Annals\". Temasek may have been derived from \"Tasik\", the Malay word for \"lake\" or \"sea\", perhaps meaning \"Sea Town\". The Chinese traveller Wang Dayuan, visiting the island around 1330, mentioned \"Danmaxi\" (, written as 淡馬錫 in the Mao Kun map), which is a transcription of the Malay name \"Temasek\". Wang described two settlements in \"Danmaxi\": \"Long Ya Men\" and \"Ban Zu\" (班卒, ). In a version of Marco Polo's account of his travel, a place named \"Chiamassie\" that could be Temasik was mentioned in relation to the island kingdom of \"Malayur\". Temasik may have also been mentioned in Vietnamese records as \"Sach Ma Tich\" in the 14th century. Chinese records continued to use the name Temasik for some time afterwards (for example in the Mao Kun map) even though its name had been changed to Singapura in the 14th century. Although the name was mentioned in Malay literature, the name Temasek had become obsolete and did not appear in European maps and documents from 1500 to 1800. In colonial and more modern times, this early name for Singapore was revived and is now used by modern institutions and for national honours in Singapore.\n\nEarly European visitors to the region gave Singapore a number of different names. Portuguese and Spanish sources may use the name \"Viontana\" for \"Ujong Tanah\", a name that may also be used to refer to Johor or the lower part of the Malay Peninsula. Dutch maps of the 1600s and 1700s named the island as \"'t Lange Eyland\" or \"'t Lang Eiland\" (\"The Long Island\"), or the Malay equivalent \"Pulau Panjang\", as well as \"Iatana\" for \"Ujong Tanah\". A Flemish merchant named the island as \"Ysla de la Sabandaria Vieja\", or \"Island of the Old Shahbandar's House\" (the Shahbandar or Portmaster's house was marked on some early maps near the mouth of Singapore River). Xabandaria along with other place names of Singapore such as Tanah Merah and Blakang Mati (Sentosa) appear in a map by a Malay-Portuguese cartographer Godinho de Erédia drawn in 1604 and published in 1613.\nThe name Singapura and its many variants were used from the 1500s onwards in Europeans sources. Early 16th century European maps such as Cantino planisphere, showing the knowledge of Malay Peninsula before the actual arrival of the Portuguese in the region (its depiction is therefore relatively inaccurate compared to the rest of the map), give names such as \"bargimgaparaa\" or \"ba(r)xingapara\" and \"ba(r)cingapura\", where the \"bar\" in the name may be from either Arabic or Persian meaning \"a large body of water\" that may also be used to refer to a coastal kingdom. The use of the term Singapore however was inexact, and can refer to a number of geographical areas or entities. Up to the late 1700s, the name Singapura was more often used in relation to a strait rather than the island itself. The Portuguese general Afonso de Albuquerque who conquered Malacca in fact claimed that Singapura was named after the strait, and that it meant \"\"falsa demora\", perhaps meaning a \"wrong, tricky or challenging interruption [of the voyage] or place to stay\". The Strait of Singapore in the early period may refer to the southern portion of the Strait of Malacca or other stretches of water, and maps of the 16th century may use \"Cingaporla\", \"Cincapula\", and many other variations to refer to island as well as the various straits or the southern portion of the Malay peninsula. The 18th century German encyclopedia \"Grosses vollständiges Universal-Lexicon\" provided five separate entries for Singapore: \"Sincapur\" (tip of the Malay Peninsula) and its Latin equivalent \"Sincapurum Promontorium\", \"Sincapura\" (a city), \"Sincapor\" and \"Singapour\" (both straits). After the 1780s, the name \"Sinkapoor\" began to be commonly used on Dutch maps. In English sources, \"Sincapore\", \"Sincapure\", \"Singahpura\" and other variants of Singapore were used in the 17th to 19th century, and although a few variants such as \"Singapoor\" and \"Singapure\" continued to appear for some time, Singapore would become the standard form in English in the 19th century.\n\nA number of names for Singapore were used by local Hokkien-speaking ethnic Chinese in early modern Singapore. In addition to the now standard \"Sin-ka-pho\" (), other names include \"Seng-ka-pho\" (星嘉坡 or 星加坡) and the derived short forms \"Seng-chiu\" (星洲; \"Singapore Island\") and \"Seng-kok\" (星國 \"Singapore State\").\n\nAnother name, \"Sit-la̍t\" (石叻) derived from the Malay word \"selat\" meaning \"strait\" (from \"Sit-la̍t-mn̂g\" [石叻門] another name for Longyamen) and the derivatives or variants \"Sit-la̍t-po·\" (石叻埠), \"'Si̍t-la̍t-po·\" (實叻埠), and \"La̍t-po·\" (叻埠) were also used.\n\nThe Japanese renamed Singapore , from Japanese , or \"southern island obtained in the age of Shōwa\", and occupied it until the British repossessed the island on 12 September 1945, a month after the Japanese surrender. The name \"Shōnantō\" was, at the time, romanised as \"Syonan-to\" or \"Syonan\", where the characters 昭南 literally translate to \"Light of the South\".\n\nIn written Chinese characters, the country's official name, \"Republic of Singapore\" is rendered as 新加坡共和国 in simplified Chinese and 新加坡共和國 in traditional Chinese. The full name of Singapore in different varieties of Chinese is:\n\n\nA nickname for the city is \"Shīchéng\" (Mandarin)/\"Sai-siâⁿ\" (Hokkien) (狮城), literally \"Lion City.\" Modern historical names are retained as poetic or shorthand names for the island or country and include \"Xīngzhōu\"/\"Seng-chiu\" (星洲) and \"Xīngguó\"/\"Seng-kok\" (星國). \"Xīng\", literally \"star,\" is used as a homophone for the first syllable of \"Singapore.\" \"Zhōu\" is a term for \"island\" while \"guó\" means \"country\" or \"state.\" \"Xīngzhōu\" is used in names such as the \"Sin Chew Jit Poh\" (星洲日报), a newspaper in Singapore until the 1980s.\n\nThe official name of the country in Malay is \"Republik Singapura\" and the Malay name is used for the country's motto and its national anthem of the same name, \"Majulah Singapura\".\n\nIn Tamil, the country's name is \"Ciṅkappūr\" (சிங்கப்பூர்) and its official name is \"Ciṅkappūr Kuṭiyaracu\" (சிங்கப்பூர் குடியரசு, //).\n\nNearly every language currently uses a name for Singapore derived from \"Singapore\" or \"Singapura.\"\n\nIn the Khmer language, the country's name is \"Sernghakborey\" (សិង្ហបុរី) from the word សិង្ហ meaning \"lion\" and បុរី meaning \"city\". The official name of the country is ស឵ធ឵រណៈរដ្ឋសិង្ហបុរី, literally \"Republic of Singapore\". The French word \"Singapour\" is commonly spoken.\n\nVietnamese either uses the word \"Singapore\" or \"Xin Ga Po\" for the country (and \"Cộng hòa Singapore\" or \"Cộng hòa Xin Ga Po\" for \"Republic of Singapore\") but has traditionally used versions taken from the \"hán tự\" 新加坡, namely \"Tân Gia Pha\" or \"Tân Gia Ba\" (and \"Tân Gia Ba Cộng hòa quốc\" for \"Republic of Singapore\" [新加坡共和國]). It has also used such \"hán tự\"-derived names other for historical names including \"Chiêu Nam\" for \"Shōnan\" (昭南) and \"Hạ Châu\".\n\nLikewise, Korea formerly used a Hanja-derived name for Singapore, \"Singapa\" (신가파), but now uses \"Singgaporeu\" (싱가포르).\n\n"}
{"id": "48808954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48808954", "title": "Normalized difference water index", "text": "Normalized difference water index\n\nNormalized Difference Water Index (NDWI) may refer to one of at least two remote sensing-derived indexes related to liquid water:\n\nOne is used to monitor changes in water content of leaves, using near-infrared (NIR) and short-wave infrared (SWIR) wavelengths, proposed by Gao in 1996:\n\nAnother is used to monitor changes related to water content in water bodies, using green and NIR wavelengths, defined by McFeeters (1996):\n\nIn remote sensing, \"ratio image\" or \"spectral rationing\" are enhancement techniques in which a raster pixel from one spectral band is divided by the corresponding value in another band. Both the indexes above share this same functional form; the choice of bands used is what makes them appropriate for a specific purpose.\n\nIf looking to monitor vegetation in drought affected areas, then it is advisable to use NIR and SWIR. The SWIR reflectance reflects changes in both the vegetation water content and the spongy mesophyll structure in vegetation canopies. The NIR reflectance is affected by leaf internal structure and leaf dry matter content, but not by water content. The combination of the NIR with the SWIR removes variations induced by leaf internal structure and leaf dry matter content, improving the accuracy in retrieving the vegetation water content.\n\nIf looking for water level or change in water level (e.g. flooding), then it is advisable to use the green and NIR spectral bands.\n\nVisual or digital interpretation of the output image/raster created is similar to NDVI:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21492837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21492837", "title": "Nubia", "text": "Nubia\n\nNubia () was a region along the Nile river encompassing the area between Aswan in southern Egypt and Khartoum in central Sudan. It was the seat of one of the earliest civilizations of ancient Africa, with a history that can be traced from at least 2500 BC onward with the Kerma culture. The latter was conquered by the New Kingdom of Egypt under pharaoh Thutmose I around 1500 BC. Nubia was home to several empires, most prominently the kingdom of Kush, which conquered Egypt during the 8th century BC during the reign of Piye and ruled the country as its Twenty-fifth Dynasty (to be replaced a century later by the native Egyptian Twenty-sixth Dynasty). \n\nThe collapse of Kush in the 4th century AD after more than a thousand years of existence was precipitated by an invasion by Ethiopia's Kingdom of Aksum and saw the rise of three Christian kingdoms, Nobatia, Makuria and Alodia, the last two again lasting for roughly a millennium. Their eventual decline initiated not only the partition of Nubia into the northern half conquered by the Ottomans and the southern half by the Sennar sultanate in the 16th century, but also a rapid Islamization and partial Arabization of the Nubian people. Nubia was again united under the Khedivate of Egypt in the 19th century. Today, the region of Nubia is split between Egypt and Sudan.\n\nThe primarily archaeological science dealing with ancient Nubia is called Nubiology.\n\nThe name \"Nubia\" is derived from that of the Noba people, nomads who settled the area in the 4th century CE following the collapse of the kingdom of Meroë. The Noba spoke a Nilo-Saharan language, ancestral to Old Nubian. Old Nubian was mostly used in religious texts dating from the 8th and 15th centuries. Before the 4th century, and throughout classical antiquity, Nubia was known as \"Kush\", or, in Classical Greek usage, included under the name \"Ethiopia\" (\"Aithiopia\").\n\nHistorically, the people of Nubia spoke at least two varieties of the Nubian language group, a subfamily that includes Nobiin (the descendant of Old Nubian), Kenuzi-Dongola, Midob and several related varieties in the northern part of the Nuba Mountains in South Kordofan. Until at least 1970, the Birgid language was spoken north of Nyala in Darfur, but is now extinct. However, linguistic evidence indicates that the languages spoken in the ancient Kerma Culture (present-day southern Egypt and northern Sudan) in Nubia, belonged to the Cushitic branch of the Afroasiatic languages.\n\nNubia was divided into three major regions: Upper, Middle and Lower Nubia, in reference to their locations along the Nile. Lower refers to regions downstream and upper refers to regions upstream. Lower Nubia lay between the First and the Second Cataracts, within the current borders of Egypt. Middle Nubia lay between the Second and the Third Cataracts. Upper Nubia lay south of the Third Cataract.\n\nEarly settlements sprouted in both Upper and Lower Nubia. Egyptians referred to Nubia as \"Ta-Seti,\" or \"The Land of the Bow,\" since the Nubians were known to be expert archers. Modern scholars typically refer to the people from this area as the \"A-Group\" culture. Fertile farmland just south of the Third Cataract is known as the \"pre-Kerma\" culture in Upper Nubia, as they are the ancestors.\n\nThe Neolithic people in the Nile Valley likely came from Sudan, as well as the Sahara, and there was shared culture with the two areas and with that of Egypt during this period. By the 5th millennium BC, the people who inhabited what is now called Nubia participated in the Neolithic revolution. Saharan rock reliefs depict scenes that have been thought to be suggestive of a cattle cult, typical of those seen throughout parts of Eastern Africa and the Nile Valley even to this day. Megaliths discovered at Nabta Playa are early examples of what seems to be one of the world's first astronomical devices, predating Stonehenge by almost 2,000 years. This complexity as observed at Nabta Playa, and as expressed by different levels of authority within the society there, likely formed the basis for the structure of both the Neolithic society at Nabta and the Old Kingdom of Egypt. Around 3500 BC, the second \"Nubian\" culture, termed the A-Group, arose. It was a contemporary of, and ethnically and culturally very similar to, the polities in predynastic Naqada of Upper Egypt. The A-Group people were engaged in trade with the Egyptians. This trade is testified archaeologically by large amounts of Egyptian commodities deposited in the graves of the A-Group people. The imports consisted of gold objects, copper tools, faience amulets and beads, seals, slate palettes, stone vessels, and a variety of pots.\nAround 3300 BC, there is evidence of a unified kingdom, as shown by the finds at Qustul, that maintained substantial interactions (both cultural and genetic) with the culture of Naqadan Upper Egypt. The Nubian culture may have even contributed to the unification of the Nile Valley.\n\nToby Wilkinson, based on work by Bruce Williams in the 1980s, wrote that \"The white crown, associated in historic times with Upper Egypt, is first attested later than the red crown, but is directly associated with the ruler somewhat earlier. The earliest known depiction of the white crown is on a ceremonial incense burner from Cemetery at Qustul in Lower Nubia\". Based on a 1998 excavation report, Jane Roy has written that \"At the time of Williams' argument, the Qustul cemetery and the 'royal' iconography found there was dated to the Naqada IIIA period, thus antedating royal cemeteries in Egypt of the Naqada IIIB phase. New evidence from Abydos, however, particularly the excavation of Cemetery U and the tome U-j, dating to Naqada IIIA has shown that this iconography appears earlier in Egypt.\"\n\nAround the turn of the protodynastic period, Naqada, in its bid to conquer and unify the whole Nile Valley, seems to have conquered Ta-Seti (the kingdom where Qustul was located) and harmonized it with the Egyptian state. Thus, Nubia became the first nome of Upper Egypt. At the time of the first dynasty, the A-Group area seems to have been entirely depopulated, most likely due to immigration to areas west and south.\n\nThis culture began to decline in the early 28th century BC. George Reisner suggested that it was succeeded by a culture that he called the \"B-Group\", but most archaeologists today believe that this culture never existed and that the area was depopulated from c. 3000 BC to c. 2500, when a-group descendants returned to the area. The causes of this are uncertain, but it was perhaps caused by Egyptian invasions and pillaging that began at this time. Nubia is believed to have served as a trade corridor between Egypt and tropical Africa long before 3100 BC. Egyptian craftsmen of the period used ivory and ebony wood from tropical Africa which came through Nubia.\n\nIn 2300 BC, Nubia was first mentioned in Old Kingdom Egyptian accounts of trade missions. From Aswan, right above the First Cataract, the southern limit of Egyptian control at the time, Egyptians imported gold, incense, ebony, copper, ivory, and exotic animals from tropical Africa through Nubia. As trade between Egypt and Nubia increased, so did wealth and stability. By the Egyptian 6th dynasty, Nubia was divided into a series of small kingdoms. There is debate over whether these C-Group peoples, who flourished from c. 2500 BC to c. 1500 BC, were another internal evolution or invaders. There are definite similarities between the pottery of the A-Group and C-Group, so it may be a return of the ousted Group-As, or an internal revival of lost arts. At this time, the Sahara Desert was becoming too arid to support human beings, and it is possible that there was a sudden influx of Saharan nomads. C-Group pottery is characterized by all-over incised geometric lines with white infill and impressed imitations of basketry.\n\nDuring the Egyptian Middle Kingdom (c. 2040–1640 BC), Egypt began expanding into Nubia to gain more control over the trade routes in Northern Nubia and direct access to trade with Southern Nubia. They erected a chain of forts down the Nile below the Second Cataract. These garrisons seemed to have peaceful relations with the local Nubian people, but little interaction during the period. A contemporaneous but distinct culture from the C-Group was the Pan Grave culture, so called because of their shallow graves. The Pan Graves are associated with the East bank of the Nile, but the Pan Graves and C-Group definitely interacted. Their pottery is characterized by incised lines of a more limited character than those of the C-Group, generally having interspersed undecorated spaces within the geometric schemes.\n\nOne interpretation is that Nubian A-Group rulers and early Egyptian pharaohs used related royal symbols. Similarities in rock art of A-Group Nubia and Upper Egypt support this position. Ancient Egypt conquered Nubian territory in various eras, and incorporated parts of the area into its provinces. The Nubians in turn were to conquer Egypt under its 25th Dynasty.\n\nHowever, relations between the two peoples also show peaceful cultural interchange and cooperation, including mixed marriages. The Medjay (\"mj3\",) represents the name ancient Egypt gave to a region in northern Sudan where an ancient people of Nubia inhabited. They became part of the Egyptian military as scouts and minor workers.\n\nDuring the Middle Kingdom of Egypt, \"Medjay\" no longer referred to the district of Medja but to a tribe or clan of people. It is not known what happened to the district, but, after the First Intermediate Period of Egypt, it and other districts in Nubia were no longer mentioned in the written record. Written accounts detail the Medjay as nomadic desert people. Over time, they were incorporated into the Egyptian army. In the army, the Medjay served as garrison troops in Egyptian fortifications in Nubia and patrolled the deserts as a kind of gendarmerie. This was done in the hope of preventing their fellow Medjay tribespeople from further attacking Egyptian assets in the region. Later, they were even used during Kamose's campaign against the Hyksos and became instrumental in making the Egyptian state into a military power.\n\nBy the Eighteenth Dynasty of the New Kingdom period, the Medjay were an elite paramilitary police force. No longer did the term refer to an ethnic group and, over time, the new meaning became synonymous with the policing occupation in general. Being an elite police force, the Medjay were often used to protect valuable areas, especially royal and religious complexes. Though they are most notable for their protection of the royal palaces and tombs in Thebes and the surrounding areas, the Medjay were known to have been used throughout Upper and Lower Egypt.\nVarious pharaohs of Nubian origin are held by some Egyptologists to have played an important part towards the area in different eras of Egyptian history, particularly the 12th Dynasty. These rulers handled matters in typical Egyptian fashion, reflecting the close cultural influences between the two regions.\n\nIn the New Kingdom, Nubians became indistinguishable in the archaeological record from Egyptians.\n\nFrom the pre-Kerma culture, the first kingdom to unify much of the region arose. The Kerma Culture, named for its presumed capital at Kerma, was one of the earliest urban centers in the Nile region and spoke languages of the Cushitic branch. By 1750 BC, the kings of Kerma were powerful enough to organize the labor for monumental walls and structures of mud brick. They also had rich tombs, with possessions for the afterlife and large human sacrifices. George Andrew Reisner excavated sites at Kerma and found distinctive Nubian architecture such as large tombs and palace-like structures. At one point, Kerma came very close to conquering Egypt. Egypt suffered a serious defeat at the hands of the Kingdom of Kush.\n\nAccording to Davies, head of the joint British Museum and Egyptian archaeological team, the attack was so devastating that, if the Kerma forces had chosen to stay and occupy Egypt, they might have eliminated it for good and brought the nation to extinction. When Egyptian power revived under the New Kingdom of Egypt (c. 1532–1070 BC), Egyptians began to expand further southwards. The Egyptians destroyed Kerma's kingdom and capitol and expanded the Egyptian empire to the Fourth Cataract.\n\nBy the end of the reign of Thutmose I (1520 BC), all of northern Nubia had been annexed. The Egyptians built a new administrative center at Napata, and used the area to produce gold and incense. The Nubian gold production made Egypt a prime source of the precious metal in the Middle East. The primitive working conditions for the slaves are recorded by Diodorus Siculus, who saw some of the mines at a later time. One of the oldest maps known is of a gold mine in Nubia, the Turin Papyrus Map dating to about 1160 BC; this map is also one of the earliest characterized road maps in existence.\n\nWhen the Egyptians pulled out of the Napata region, they left a lasting legacy that was merged with indigenous customs, forming the kingdom of Kush. Archaeologists have found several burials in the area that seem to belong to local leaders. The Kushites were buried there soon after the Egyptians decolonized the Nubian frontier. Kush adopted many Egyptian practices, such as their religion. The Kingdom of Kush survived longer than that of Egypt, invaded Egypt (under the leadership of king Piye), and controlled Egypt during the 8th century BC as the Twenty-fifth Dynasty of Egypt.\n\nThe Kushites held sway over their northern neighbors for nearly 100 years, until they were eventually repelled by the invading Assyrians. The Assyrians forced them to move farther south, where they eventually established their capital at Meroë. Of the Nubian kings of this era, Taharqa is perhaps the best known. A son and the third successor of the founding pharaoh, Piye, he was crowned in Memphis, Egypt . Taharqa ruled over both Nubia and Egypt, restored Egyptian temples at Karnak, and built new temples and pyramids in Nubia before being driven from Egypt by the Assyrians.\n\nMeroë (800 BC – ) in southern Nubia lay on the east bank of the Nile, about 6 km north-east of the Kabushiya station near Shendi, Sudan, ca. 200 km north-east of Khartoum. The people there preserved many ancient Egyptian customs, but were unique in many respects. They developed their own form of writing, first utilizing Egyptian hieroglyphs, and later using an alphabetic script with 23 signs. Since king Arakamani the kings were buried in Meroe.\n\nThe Achaemenids occupied the Kushan kingdom, possibly from the time of Cambyses (circa 530 BCE), and more probably from the time of Darius I (550-486 BCE), who mentions the conquest on Kush (\"Kušiya\") in his inscriptions. \n\nStrabo describes a clash with the Romans in which the Romans defeated Nubians. According to Strabo, following the Kushite advance, Gaius Petronius (a Prefect of Egypt at the time) prepared a large army and marched south. The Roman forces clashed with the Kushite armies near Thebes and forced them to retreat to Pselchis (Maharraqa) in Kushite lands. Petronius then sent deputies to the Kushites in an attempt to reach a peace agreement and make certain demands.\n\nQuoting Strabo, the Kushites \"desired three days for consideration\" in order to make a final decision. However, after the three days, Kush did not respond and Petronius advanced with his armies and took the Kushite city of Premnis (modern Karanog) south of Maharraqa. From there, he advanced all the way south to Napata, the second Capital in Kush after Meroe. Petronius attacked and sacked Napata, causing the son of the Kushite Queen to flee. Strabo describes the defeat of the Kushites at Napata, stating that \"He (Petronius) made prisoners of the inhabitants\".\n\nDuring this time, the different parts of the region divided into smaller groups with individual leaders, or generals, each commanding small armies of mercenaries. They fought for control of what is now Nubia and its surrounding territories, leaving the entire region weak and vulnerable to attack. Meroë would eventually meet defeat by the new rising Kingdom of Aksum to their south under King Ezana.\n\nThe classification of the Meroitic language is uncertain; it was long assumed to have been one of the Afroasiatic languages like the Egyptian language, but is now considered to have likely been one of the Eastern Sudanic languages.\n\nAt some point during the 4th century, the region was conquered by the Noba, from which the name \"Nubia\" may derive; another possibility is that it comes from the Egyptian word for gold. From then on, the Romans referred to the area as Nobatia.\n\nAround AD 350, the area was invaded by the Kingdom of Aksum and the Meroitic kingdom collapsed. Eventually, three smaller Christian kingdoms replaced it: northernmost was Nobatia between the first and second cataract of the Nile River, with its capital at Pachoras (modern-day Faras); in the middle was Makuria, with its capital at Old Dongola; and southernmost was Alodia, with its capital at Soba (near Khartoum). King Silky of Nobatia crushed the Blemmyes, and recorded his victory in a Greek inscription carved in the wall of the temple of Talmis (modern Kalabsha) around AD 500.\n\nWhile bishop Athanasius of Alexandria consecrated one Marcus as bishop of Philae before his death in 373, showing that Christianity had penetrated the region by the 4th century, John of Ephesus records that a Monophysite priest named Julian converted the king and his nobles of Nobatia around 545. John of Ephesus also writes that the kingdom of Alodia was converted around 569. However, John of Biclarum records that the kingdom of Makuria was converted to Catholicism the same year, suggesting that John of Ephesus might be mistaken. Further doubt is cast on John's testimony by an entry in the chronicle of the Greek Orthodox Patriarch of Alexandria Eutychius, which states that in 719 the church of Nubia transferred its allegiance from the Greek to the Coptic Orthodox Church.\n\nBy the 7th century, Makuria expanded becoming the dominant power in the region. It was strong enough to halt the southern expansion of Islam after the Arabs had taken Egypt. After several failed invasions the new rulers agreed to a treaty with Dongola, called Baqt, allowing for peaceful coexistence and trade. This treaty held for six hundred years. Over time the influx of Arab traders introduced Islam to Nubia and it gradually supplanted Christianity. While there are records of a bishop at Qasr Ibrim in 1372, his see had come to include that located at Faras. It is also clear that the cathedral of Dongola had been converted to a mosque in 1317.\n\nThe influx of Arabs and Nubians to Egypt and Sudan had contributed to the suppression of the Nubian identity following the collapse of the last Nubian kingdom around 1504. A vast majority of the Nubian population is currently Muslim, and the Arabic language is their main medium of communication in addition to their indigenous old Nubian language. The unique characteristic of Nubian is shown in their culture (dress, dances, traditions, and music).\n\nIn the 14th century, the Dongolan government collapsed and the region became divided and dominated by Arabs. The next centuries would see several Arab invasions of the region, as well as the establishment of a number of smaller kingdoms. Northern Nubia was brought under Egyptian control, while the south came under the control of the Kingdom of Sennar in the 16th century. The entire region would come under Egyptian control during the rule of Muhammad Ali in the early 19th century, and later became a joint Anglo-Egyptian condominium. \n\nWith the end of colonialism and the establishment of the Republic of Egypt (1953), and the secession of the Republic of Sudan from unity with Egypt (1956), Nubia was divided between Egypt and Sudan.\n\nDuring the early-1970s, many Egyptian and Sudanese Nubians were forcibly resettled to make room for Lake Nasser after the construction of the dams at Aswan. Nubian villages can now be found north of Aswan on the west bank of the Nile and on Elephantine Island; and many Nubians now live in large cities, such as Cairo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47245496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47245496", "title": "Omuma town", "text": "Omuma town\n\nOmuma town is the headquarters of Oru East, a local government area of Imo State in south eastern Nigeria. Is located at latitude 5.5594893° N and longitude 6.9720482° E.\nOmuma town is one of the oldest towns in Imo State. It's bounded on the north by Mgbidi on the east by Amiri and Otulu, on the west by \nNempi Omuma has four communities, Abia-Omuma,Ozuh-Omuma, Umuhu-Omuma and Etiti-Omuma.\n\nChristianity is the dominant religion in Omuma. Catholics and Anglicans have the largest followers, and Pentecostal churches are not left out.\nThe culture of Omuma is oriented on Omenala and is typical of the Igbo culture, being steeped in Igbo art and Igbo music. While several cultural activities and festivals of old, having been associated with ancient Tribal gods and rites, have ceased to be performed since the spread of Christianity.\n\nThe new yam festival starts with the planting season and is a more serious occasion, the planting season starts in March and the chief priest and elders start the planting of the yams. Before the first yam is planted elders pay homage to their traditional ruler or chief the Dede Igbo who is the custodian of the tradition and the ancestral father of the Omuma Igbo people.\n\nVery top members of the Igbo people like high chiefs, title holders, respected elders and important personalities in the community in an entourage make the journey to the Dede. When the elders and top title holders arrive at the Ezeonomobi Igbo they are usually received by the leader as culture demands, by presenting them locally brewed palm wine and kolanut and white clay which is first offered to the gods as supplication before the visitors.\n\nBrief discussions and prayers are done, the usual calendar puts the planting season on January while the Igbo calendar which is agrarian is called the first Eke and starts in the month of February and is known as Onwa Mmiri Nda Afo.\n\nIn Igboland yam is an important economic crop which is highly favored and a regular staple in most homes, the crop is very significant and has important status being the chief crop and forerunner of other crops in the region. The planting season flags of on the first week of February and the crop usually takes six months to mature making the festival period between late July and early August when the valuable crop is harvested.\n\n\n\nOmuma sits in the rain forest and produces many agricultural products, such as yams, cassava, taro,ona,corn, rubber and palm products. Omuma also have crude oil and natural gas reserves like most of the Igbo land areas.\nOmuma is also noted for entrepreneurial skills. Notable industries in Omuma includes- Bread factories,Table water factories,Wood saw mills, Oil palm mills, etc.The Omuma market popularly known as \"Orie Omuma\" is the biggest market in the entire Oru East L.G.A attracting people from all over the South East Nigeria and beyond.\n"}
{"id": "16285685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16285685", "title": "Outline of Solomon Islands", "text": "Outline of Solomon Islands\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Solomon Islands:\n\nSolomon Islands is a sovereign Melanesian island nation located in the South Pacific Ocean south-east of Papua New Guinea. The country is composed of nearly one thousand islands of the Solomon Islands archipelago, which cover a total land area of . The capital is Honiara, located on the island of Guadalcanal.\n\nThe Solomon Islands archipelago is believed to have been inhabited by Melanesian people for thousands of years. Some of the most bitter fighting of World War II occurred in the Solomon Islands campaign of 1942–45, including the Battle of Guadalcanal. Self-government was achieved in 1976 and independence two years later. The country is a Commonwealth realm.\n\nThe historical North Solomon Islands covered Bougainville Island, Choiseul, Santa Isabel, the Shortlands and Ontong Java and were largely under German control until 1900. The southern Solomon Islands, which included Guadalcanal, the Nggelas, Gizo, Kolombangara, Marovo Island, Mborokua, New Georgia, Vella Lavella, Vangunu, Rennell, Bellona, Makira, Malaita, Temotu and a number of associated smaller islands were under British control and in 1893 became the British Solomon Islands Protectorate. In 1945, Bougainville, and some associated minor islands, were transferred away from the protectorate to Australian administration and then in 1970 became a part of Papua New Guinea. The remainder stayed under the protectorate until independence in 1978 at which point they were officially named \"Solomon Islands\". All of the north and south Solomon Islands taken together are generally referred to as \"the Solomon Islands\" to distinguish them from the nation state of \"Solomon Islands\".\n\nSince 1998, ethnic violence, government misconduct, and crime have undermined stability and civil society. In June 2003 an Australian-led \"multinational\" force, the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands (RAMSI), arrived to restore peace and disarm ethnic militias.\n\n\nGeography of the Solomon Islands\nThe term \"the Solomon Islands\" refers to the group of islands that includes the islands of the nation state \"Solomon Islands\" but also other islands such as Bougainville, a province of Papua New Guinea. \"The Solomon Islands\" was the name given to this wider group of geographical islands by the British administration up to the independence of Solomon Islands in 1978; this article concerns itself with the political entity, the nation state of Solomon Islands.\n\n\n\nRegions of Solomon Islands\n\nList of ecoregions in Solomon Islands\n\nAdministrative divisions of Solomon Islands\n\nProvinces of Solomon Islands\n\nDemographics of Solomon Islands\n\nPolitics of Solomon Islands\n\nGovernment of Solomon Islands\n\n\n\nCourt system of Solomon Islands\n\nForeign relations of Solomon Islands\n\nThe government of Solomon Islands is a member of:\n\nLaw of Solomon Islands\n\nMilitary of Solomon Islands\nThere is no military in Solomon Islands.\n\nLocal government in Solomon Islands\n\nHistory of the Solomon Islands\n\nCulture of the Solomon Islands\n\n\nSport in the Solomon Islands\n\nEconomy of the Solomon Islands\n\nEducation in the Solomon Islands\n\n\nSolomon Islands\n"}
{"id": "57543841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57543841", "title": "P. Jackson Darlington, Jr.", "text": "P. Jackson Darlington, Jr.\n\nPhilip Jackson Darlington, Jr. (14 November 14 1904, Philadelphia – 16 December 1983, Cambridge, Massachusetts) was an American entomologist, field naturalist, biogeographer, museum curator, and zoology professor. He was legendary for his collecting ability and his toughness and determination on field expeditions.\n\nDarlington graduated in 1922 from secondary school at Phillips Exeter Academy and then attended Harvard University, where he graduated with bachelor's degree in 1926 and M.S. in 1927. In the 1920s he went on several field expeditions to the West Indies. From 1928 to 1929 he worked as an entomologist for the United Fruit Company near Santa Marta, Colombia. He returned to graduate study at Harvard University with an extensive collection of insects and vertebrates, including a diversity of bird skins, which formed the basis for a 1931 article. He received in 1931 his Ph.D. from Harvard University with a thesis on the \"Carabidae\" (ground beetles) of New Hampshire. From 1931 to 1932 he was a member of the Harvard Australian Expedition (1931–1932) led by William Morton Wheeler and returned with a collection of a huge number of insects and 341 mammals.\n\nDarlington was a key member of the six-man Harvard Australian Expedition (1931-1932) sent on behalf of the Harvard Museum of Comparative Zoology (MCZ) for the dual purpose of procuring specimens - the museum being \"weak in Australian animals and...desires[ing] to complete its series\" - and to engage in \"the study of the animals of the region when alive.\" The mission was success with over 300 mammal and thousands of insect specimens returning to the United States. His companion William E. Schevill reported that \"Dr. Darlington's resourceful skill and industry had brought together, from New South Wales and Queensland, not only a large collection of insects, but also over three hundred fifty mammals, representing over sixty species, as well about fifty species of birds; in addition, he had about two hundred fifty reptiles and amphibians.\"\n\nFollowing his return from the expedition, Darlington was made the MCZ's assistant curator of insects from 1932 to 1940, from 1940 to 1951 the Henry Clinton Fall Curator of Coleoptera, and from 1951 until his retirement in 1971 the Curator of Insects. He was also at Harvard University from 1962 until his retirement in 1971 the Alexander Agassiz Professor of Zoology.\n\nUpon the entry of the Unites States into WW II, Darlington enlisted as a Sanitary Corps entomologist with the rank of first lieutenant in the United States Army Medical Service Corps. He served in the Sixth United States Army during Operation Cartwheel and subsequent campaigns before retiring as a major in April 1944. Before he departed from New Guinea, he was able to collect many specimens of ground beetles and other insects.\n\nIn 1942 Darlington married Elizabeth Koch, who later accompanied on many of his field expeditions. The couple and their son, Philip Frederick Darlington, spent eighteen months in 1956–1957 for a field study, camping from a truck in the Australian outback.\n\nDarlington presented a theory challenging William Diller Matthew's 1915 theory of faunal dominance.\n\nDuring a WW II field survey for malarial mosquito larvae in New Guinea, Darlington was sampling stagnant water. Collecting alone in the jungle, he ventured into a stagnant pool by stepping carefully onto a submerged log, but a full-grown crocodile swam up and attacked him. Although seized in the crocodile's jaws, he somehow managed by kicking the crocodile to escape and scramble back to land. Despite serious loss of blood, torn muscles and ligaments in both arms, broken bones in his right arm, and piercing wounds in both hands, he was able to hike back to the U.S. army hospital.\n\nThomas Barbour was the director of Harvard's Museum of Comparative Zoology from 1927 to 1946. For many years, Barbour and Darlington had friendly arguments about Barbour's advocacy of faunal dispersion by land bridges versus Darlington's advocacy of exreme-wind-borne dispersal of small animals over isolated islands. To test his ideas, Darlington dropped several live frogs from a window on the fifth floor of the Museum. Barbour and a crowd of spectators observed the experiment. The dropped frogs were stunned\nand remained still for a few seconds, but almost immediately they started to recover and in a few minutes were hopping normally.\n\n"}
{"id": "7517450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7517450", "title": "Padrão Real", "text": "Padrão Real\n\nThe Padrão Real (, translated into English as \"Royal Pattern\") was a cartographic work of Portuguese mastery produced secretly and maintained by the organization of the Portuguese Royal Court in the 16th century. The work was available to the scientific elite of the time, being exposed in the Casa da Índia (House of India). In the Padrão Real the new discoveries of the Portuguese were constantly added and mapped. The first Padrão Real was produced in the time of Henry the Navigator, even before the existence of the Casa da Índia.\n\nThe Padrão Real of the House of India hung from the ceiling in the Division of Maps as the Portuguese masterpiece, extremely secretive and guarded of foreign spies and merchants.\n\nThe Padrão Real included the complete record of the Portuguese discoveries, public and secret. The House of India issued maps based on the Padrão Real to navigators in Royal service.\n\nThe Cantino planisphere (1502) is a copy of the Padrão Real, possibly produced by some Portuguese bribed cartographer. It is conjectured that Cantino was able to bribe a cartographer to copy the map between December 1501 and October 1502. From a letter signed by Cantino it is thought that he sent the map to the Duke of Ferrara on November 19, 1502.\n\nThe Padrão Real was lost in time. However a copy (Cantino planisphere) still exists. The Spanish counterpart of the Portuguese Padrão Real was the Padrón Real, officially established by the Spanish Monarchs in 1508, in the Casa de Contratación. \n\n"}
{"id": "7526257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7526257", "title": "Park Tundra", "text": "Park Tundra\n\nPark tundra was a plant community that occurred in northwestern Europe after the last ice age ended. The community was similar to that found today at the boundary between tundra and taiga in Siberia: species included the dwarf birch and the least willow. Park tundra stretched as far south as the Alps and the Pyrenees. Park tundra was common during the colder post-glacial periods, such as the Older Dryas (12,000-10,000 BCE) and the Younger Dryas (8800-8300 BCE).\n"}
{"id": "30945540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30945540", "title": "Pearl Fishery Coast", "text": "Pearl Fishery Coast\n\nThe Pearl Fishery Coast refers to a coastal area of southern India, extending along the Coromandel Coast from Tuticorin to Comorin ruled by Paravars. \n\nThe coast took its name from the presence of pearls on the coast, and the numerous fisheries that operated to exploit them.\n\nIn a conflict between the Paravas and the Arabs in 1532, the Paravas sought protection from the Portuguese. In 1535, the Portuguese led an army under Pedro Vaz and expelled the Arabs. As a compensation, the Paravas accepted to convert to Christianity. \n\nThe Portuguese conquered the Pearl Fishery Coast from the Muslims of Kalyalpattanam in 1525. They restored the rights of the Paravas to exploit their fisheries in exchange for a considerable annual tribute.\n\nThe Paravas, who lived along the Pearl Fishery Coast adopted Christianity in 1535-1536, becoming an important Christian region, and succeeded the first introduction of Christianity in Mylapore with the Thomas Christians. The Portuguese derived considerable profit from the pearl trade, and strictly controlled the Pearl Fishery Coast through the Padroado system.\n\nThe missionary Francis Xavier, coming from Goa, reached the Pearl Fishery Coast in 1542, where he was able to evangelize successfully the Paravars, converting an estimated 40,000 to 50,000 souls.\n\nIn 1553, a fleet of the Ottoman Empire made a raid on the Pearl Fishery Coast around Tuticorin. They were assisted by the Marakkar Muslims of Malabar, and had the tacit agreement of Vittula Nayak of Madurai. 52 Portuguese were captured at Punnaikayal, and churches burnt down. The Ottomans failed however in 1553 against a Portuguese fleet at sea near al-Fahl. \n\nThere were numerous conflicts between the Christian Paravas and the Muslims for control of the fisheries.\n\n"}
{"id": "4340992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4340992", "title": "Prime Minister of Samoa", "text": "Prime Minister of Samoa\n\nThe Prime Minister of Samoa is the head of government of the Independent State of Samoa, a sovereign country located in the Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe first Prime Minister of Samoa was Albert Barnes Steinberger, who originally represented the American government in the Samoan Islands but was close to German commercial interests. After the indigenous authorities of the islands adopted the Constitution of 1873, Steinberger was appointed Prime Minister by the King Malietoa Laupepa in July 1875. He hold this post for seven months before the British and American consuls in the country persuaded Laupepa to dismiss him, seeing his role as German interference in the islands. Over the next two decades, there was no Prime Minister in the country, and in 1899 Samoa fell under the colonial rule of the Western powers, being divided as a German colony and an American colony at the end of the Second Samoan Civil War, according to the terms of the Tripartite Convention.\n\nAt the beginning of the World War I, German Samoa was occupied by New Zealand in 1914, and was subsequently organized as a trust territory of New Zealand in 1920. The territory gained independence in 1962 as the Independent State of Samoa. The Constitution, adopted in 1960 during the transitional period of autonomy, provides that the executive power is vested in the head of state (O le Ao o le Malo), elected by the Legislative Assembly, and who acts only on the recommendation of the government. The head of state has a ceremonial role. The real executive power is exercised by the Prime Minister and his cabinet. The Prime Minister is appointed by the head of state as a member of the Legislative Assembly who enjoys the confidence of a majority in the Legislative Assembly (Article 32 (2) (a)). The Prime Minister may be removed from office by the Legislative Assembly (Article 33 (1) (b)). Samoa is thus a parliamentary democracy based on the Westminster system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "100409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100409", "title": "Protected areas of the European Union", "text": "Protected areas of the European Union\n\nProtected areas of the European Union are areas which need and/or receive special protection because of their environmental, cultural or historical value to the member states of the European Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14326321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14326321", "title": "Redstone Technical Test Center", "text": "Redstone Technical Test Center\n\nThe Redstone Technical Test Center (RTTC) was one of the eight test centers that comprise the Developmental Test Command of the United States Army Test and Evaluation Command. RTTC conducted flight-testing of small rockets and guided missiles, and performed life cycle testing for weapon components. It occupied over 265 buildings and of Redstone Arsenal, near Huntsville, Alabama. In October 2010, as part of the Base Reallocation and Closure (BRAC) process, RTTC was combined with the Aviation Technical Test Center from Fort Rucker to form the U.S. Army Redstone Test Center.\n\nThe RTTC has developed a capability for static firing hypergolic liquid rocket engines. RTTC's facilities and procedures may be used for future testing of Army, DoD, NASA, and private industry's liquid rocket engines as part of the National Rocket Propulsion Test Alliance (NRPTA).\n"}
{"id": "29927557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29927557", "title": "Redtail Telematics Corporation", "text": "Redtail Telematics Corporation\n\nRedtail Telematics is a provider of GPS enabled fleet tracking products. The company is based in North America with headquarters in the United Kingdom. Redtail’s products use a technology solution known as VAM (Vehicle Asset Management) which includes features such as \n\nThe company's technology is provided by Plextek Limited, with which it has a strategic design partnership.\n\nAs of 2015, it has partnered with insurance provider Admiral.\n"}
{"id": "55514078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55514078", "title": "Remote sensing (geology)", "text": "Remote sensing (geology)\n\nRemote sensing in geology is remote sensing used in the geological sciences as a data acquisition method complementary to field observation, because it allows mapping of geological characteristics of regions without physical contact with the areas being explored. About one-fourth of the Earth’s total surface area is exposed land where information is ready to be extracted from detailed earth observation via remote sensing. Remote sensing is conducted via detection of electromagnetic radiation by sensors. The radiation can be naturally sourced (passive remote sensing), or produced by machines (active remote sensing) and reflected off of the Earth surface. The electromagnetic radiation acts as an information carrier for two main variables. First, the intensities of reflectance at different wavelengths are detected, and plotted on a spectral reflectance curve. This spectral fingerprint is governed by the physio-chemical properties of the surface of the target object and therefore helps mineral identification and hence geological mapping, for example by hyperspectral imaging. Second, the two-way travel time of radiation from and back to the sensor can calculate the distance in active remote sensing systems, for example, Interferometric synthetic-aperture radar. This helps geomorphological studies of ground motion, and thus can illuminate deformations associated with landslides, earthquakes, etc.\n\nRemote sensing data can help studies involving geological mapping, geological hazards and economic geology (i.e., exploration for minerals, petroleum, etc.). These geological studies commonly employ a multitude of tools classified according to short to long wavelengths of the electromagnetic radiation which various instruments are sensitive to. Shorter wavelengths are generally useful for site characterization up to mineralogical scale, while longer wavelengths reveal larger scale surface information, e.g. regional thermal anomalies, surface roughness, etc. Such techniques are particularly beneficial for exploration of inaccessible areas, and planets other than Earth. Remote sensing of proxies for geology, such as soils and vegetation that preferentially grows above different types of rocks, can also help infer the underlying geological patterns. Remote sensing data is often visualized using Geographical Information System (GIS) tools. Such tools permit a range of quantitative analyses, such as using different wavelengths of collected data sets in various Red-Green-Blue configurations to produce false color imagery to reveal key features. Thus, image processing is an important step to decipher parameters from the collected image and to extract information.\n\nIn remote sensing, the electromagnetic radiation acts as the information carrier, with a distance of tens to thousands of kilometers distance between the sensor and the target. Proximal Sensing is a similar idea but often refer to laboratory and field measurements, instead of images showing a large spatial extent. Geophysical methods, for instance Sonar and acoustic methods, shares similar properties with remote sensing but electromagnetic wave is not the sole medium. Geotechnical instrumentations, for example piezometer, tiltmeter and Global Positioning System (GPS), on the other hand, often refer to instruments installed to measure discrete point data, compared to imagery in remote sensing. A suitable sensor sensitive to the particular wavelength region, according to the designated use, is selected and employed to collect the electromagnetic wave reflected or emitted from the target object.\n\nIn remote sensing, two main variables are measured in a typical remote sensing system: the radiance (or intensity) and time of arrival for active systems. The radiance (i.e. returning signal intensity) versus wavelength is plotted to a spectral reflectance curve. As a point to note, the data collected is a blend of both reflection of solar radiation and emission (according to Planck's law) from the object for visible and near infrared (VNIR) region. The thermal infrared (TIR) region measures mainly emission while microwave region record backscattering portion of reflection. The radiance is determined by radiation-matter interactions, which is governed by the physio-chemical properties of the target object. Prominent absorptions in specific wavelength shown on the spectral reflectance curve are the fingerprints for identification in spectroscopy. The two-way travel time of the radiation could infer the distance as the speed is approximately equal to the speed of light, roughly 3 x 10^8 m/s. This allows application in ranging in light detection and ranging (LiDAR) and Radio detection and ranging (Radar) etc.\n\nSince the sensors are looking through the atmosphere to reach the target, there are atmospheric absorption. Three main atmospheric windows, which allow penetration of radiation, can be identified. They are 0.4–3 micro-meters (Visible and Near-Infrared (VNIR)), 3–14 micro-meters (Thermal Infrared TIR) and few millimeters to meters (microwave). Camera in everyday life is a passive imaging system in VNIR wavelength region. A simple classification of prevailing remote sensing instruments in geology, modified from Rees (2013) in accordance with context of this page. Text in [ ] refers to the related instruments.\n\nThe sensor could be spaceborne (carried by satellite), airborne (carried by aircraft, or most recently Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV)) or ground-based (sometimes called proximal sensing). Data acquired from higher elevation captures a larger field of view/ spatial coverage, but the resolutions are often lower. Prior mission planning regarding flight path, weight load, carrying sensor etc. have to be done before deployment. The resolution requirement is often high in geological studies, hence airborne and ground-based systems prevail in surveying.\n\nThe main advantage of employing remote sensing to deal with geological problem is that it provides direct information on the surface cover using a synoptic coverage or sometimes stereoscopic view. Hence the big picture of kinematics could be better appreciated. It also reduces the burden of field work required for the area through synoptic studies of the area of interest. The spectral vision allows identification of rock attributes for surficial mapping. The resolution however controls the accuracy.\n\nThere is a trade-off between spatial resolution and spectral resolution. Since the intensity of incident ray is fixed, for a higher spectral resolution, it is expected to have a lower spatial resolution (one pixel represent larger area) to maintain an up-to-standard signal-to-noise ratio for analysis. Also, the data volume for transmission is limited due to signal engineering problem. One can never obtain data with maximum resolutions in all spatial, spectral and radiometric resolutions due to these constraints. The temporal resolution could be understood as both the revisiting frequency and the deformation duration. For instance an instantaneous landslide or sinkhole collapse could hardly be recorded without high speed camera, while relics could be imaged into time-series where the temporal change, for instance ice calving could be revealed.\n\nAnother deficiency is the inconsistent data acquisition method, plus their interpretation schemes. As a result, an ideal database is hardly feasible because of dynamic environmental conditions in different locality. Instead, repeated reconnaissance is suggested for studying a specific area.\n\nField observation and reconnaissance remains irreplaceable and shall never be taken over completely by remote sensing because field data greatly support remote sensing data interpretation. Remote sensing should better be considered to be complementary which aims to provide instantaneous views of different scale, perspective or spectral vision. Subsurface mapping by Geophysical survey and simulation models still play an important role in the 3 dimensional characterization of soil underground. A word of caution is that there is no such an ‘ideal’ sensor capable or optimized to study everything. It is often up to scientist’s preference and experience to pick which dataset and extract information. For instance aerial photographs could be more sensible in cloud-free area, but otherwise radar may perform better for overcast weather.\nRemote sensing can aid surficial geological mapping and landform characterization.\n\nThe visible and near infrared (VNIR) and thermal infrared (TIR) are sensitive to intra-atomic electronic transitions and inter-atomic bond strength respectively can help mineral and rock identifications.The instrument in use is called spectroradiometer in lab and imaging spectrometer or multi-/ hyper-spectral scanner as imaging remote sensors. Provided that the land is not obscured by dense vegetation, some characteristics of superficial soil (the unconsolidated sedimentary materials covering the land as surficial deposits from weathering and erosion of bedrock) may be measured with a penetration depth into air-soil interface of about half of wavelength used (e.g. green light (~0.55 micro-meters) gives depth of penetration into ~0.275 micro-meters). Hence most remote sensing systems using the VNIR wavelength region give characteristics of surface soil, or sometimes exposed rock. Another parameter controlling the overall reflectance is surface roughness. The same surface can appear rough in VNIR may appear smooth in microwave, similar to what we perceive when we use a meter rule to measure roughness where surface fluctuation are in cm-scale. As grain size decreases, surface roughness increases and hence overall reflectance increases as diffuse reflection, instead of specular reflection, dominates. Specular reflection by smooth surface, for example calm water, gives little backscattering and hence appear dark. As an example, ice is mostly transparent in a large piece but becomes highly reflective when smashed into small grains.\n\nIn lithological composition studies, lab and field spectroscopy of proximal and remote sensing can help. The spectral reflectance data from imaging spectrometry employing short wavelength, for example form Airborne visible/infrared imaging spectrometer (AVIRIS), provide chemical properties of the target object. For instance, the iron content, which is indicative of the soil fertility and the age of sediment, could be approximated. For soil with high iron oxide, which is red in colour, should give higher reflectance in red wavelength portion and diminishes in blue and green. There may also be absorption at 850-900 nm. The Redness Index and absorption area in 550 nm in spectral reflectance curve are examples to quantify iron content in soil.\n\nTo identify mineral, available spectral reflectance libraries, for instance the USGS Spectral Library, summarize diagnostic absorption bands for many materials not limited to rocks and minerals. This helps create a mineral map to identify the type of mineral sharing similar spectra, with minimal in situ field work. The mineralogy is identified by matching collected sample with spectral libraries by statistical method, such as partial least squares regression. In addition to high signal-to-noise ratio (>40:1), a fine spatial resolution, which limits the amount of elements inside one single pixel, also promotes decision accuracy. There are also digital subpixel spectral unmixing tools available. The USGS Tetracorder which applies multiple algorithms to one spectral data with respect to the spectral library is sensitive and give promising results. The different approaches are summarized and classified in literature but unfortunately there is no universal recipe for mineral identification.\n\nFor rocks, be they igneous, sedimentary or metamorphic, most of their diagnostic spectral characteristics of mineralogy are present in longer wavelength (SWIR and TIR), which is for example present in the ASTER mission. This is due to the sensitivity of vibrational bands of longer wavelength. As opposed to the automatic statistical interpretation mentioned above for minerals, it is more advisable to adopt visual interpretation for identification of rock because the surficial alteration of rock may exhibit very different spectral responses.\n\nSeveral indices are proposed for rock type identification, such as Quartz Index, Carbonate Index and Mafic Index, where Di is the data of the i-th band in ASTER. \nSurficial soil is a good proxy to the geology underneath. Some of the properties of soil, alongside lithology mentioned above, are retrievable in remote sensing data, for instance Landsat ETM+, to develop the soil horizon and therefore aid its classification.\n\nThe amount of moisture within soil particles is governed by the particle size and soil texture as the interstitial space may be filled with air for dry soil and water for saturated soil. Essentially, the finer the grain size, the higher capability to hold moisture. As mentioned above, wetter soil is brighter than dry soil in radar image. For short wavelength VNIR region, in the same theory, clayey surface with smaller grain size promoting more backscattering should give higher spectral response. However, the higher soil moisture and organic contents makes clay darker in images, compared to silty and sandy soil cover after precipitation. With regard to VNIR region, as the moisture content increases, more prominent absorption (at 1.4, 1.9, 2.7 micrometers, and sometimes at 1.7 for hydroxyl absorption band) take place. On the other hand, radar is sensitive to one more factor: dielectric constant. Since water has a high dielectric constant, it has high reflectivity and hence more backscattering takes place, i.e. appears brighter in radar images. Therefore, soil appears brighter with higher soil moisture content (with the presence of capillary water) but appears dark for flooded soil (specular reflection). Quantitatively, while soil texture is determined by statistical means of regression with calibration, scientists also developed a Soil Water Index (SWI) for long-term change detection. Another approach is surface energy balance model, which makes prediction on the actual evapotranspiration.\n\nIn short, the soil moisture overall reflectance could be tabulated. \nSoil organic carbon is mainly derived from proximal sensing using mid infrared reflectance. A darker soil colour results from the saturated organic matter plus variable amount of black humic acid and soil moisture. The higher the amount of organic content in the soil, incident energy would be greatly absorbed and as a result lower reflectance is expected in general. The contrast in soil colour allows quantitative analysis of band depth analysis, principal component analysis and modeling.\n\nSoil salinity is the result of insufficient rainwater precipitation which leads to accumulation of soluble salt in soil horizon. The spectral proximal sensing in VNIR is sensitive to absorption of water in hydrated evaporate minerals, most prominently at 505 nm, 920 nm, 1415 nm and 2205 nm. For even more saline soil, 680, 1180 nm and 1780 nm would also give lower reflectance (higher absorption) and higher reflectance at 2200 nm possibly due to the loss of crystallinity in clay minerals. The spectral curve also shows a decreasing overall slope from 800 nm to 1300 nm for higher salinity. The overall reflectance curve in all wavelength increases with higher salt concentration, while the compositions of salt would show some variations in absorption bands.\n\n3-dimensional geomorphological features arising from regional tectonics and formation mechanisms could also be understood from a perspective of small scale images showing a large area acquired in elevation. The topography of an area is often characterized by volcanic activity or orogenesis. These mountain building processes are determined by the stress-strain relation in accordance with rock types. They behave as elastic/ plastic/ fracturing deformations, in response to different kinetics. Remote sensing techniques provide evidence such as observed lineament, global scale mountain distribution, seismicity and volcanic activities to support crustal scale tectonics and geodynamics studies. Additional spectral information also helps. For example, the grain size differentiates snow and ice. Aside from a planar geological map with cross-sections, sometimes 3-dimensional view from stereo-photos or representation in Digital Elevation Model (DEM) could aid the visualization. In theory, LiDAR gives the best resolution up to cm grade while radar gives 10m grade because of its high sensitivity to small scale roughness. Oblique images could greatly enhance the third-dimension, but users should bear in mind the shadowing and distortions. \nAlthough field mapping is the most primary and preferable way to acquire ground truth, the method does not work when areas become inaccessible, for example the conditions are too dangerous or extreme. Sometimes political concerns bar scientists’ entering. Remote sensing, on the other hand, provides information of the area of interest sending neither a man nor a sensor to the site.\n\nDesert area is shaped by eolian processes and its landforms by erosion and deposition. The stereopairs of aerial photos provide three-dimensional visualization for the land feature while hyperspectral image provide grain scale information for grain size, sand composition etc. The images are often of high phototones in short wavelengths in VNIR corresponding to the scanty vegetation and little moisture. Another tool is radar, which has the capability to penetrate surficial sand, a material of low dielectric constant. This see-through characteristic, notably of the L-band (1.25 GHz) microwave of 1–2 m penetration, allows subsurface mapping and possibly identification of past aquifer. The paleohydrography in Sahara Desert and Gobi Desert is revealed and further studies using airborne P-band (435 MHz) for penetration of 5 m is proposed in future research.\n\nPolitics poses challenge to scientific research. One example is the Tibesti Mountains, which is remote and politically unstable in recent decades due to conflicts over uranium deposit underneath. The area, however, could possibly serve as one spectacular example of intracontinental volcanism or hotspot. Detailed studies of the area divided into Western, Central and Eastern Tibesti Volcanic Province shows no significant sign of spatially progressive volcanism, and hence it is unlikely to be a hotspot as the manifestation of Hawaiian or Galapagos Islands. More data and systematic field survey and studies, for instance geochemical and radiometric dating, are great topics to focus on in the near future. The Tibesti board swell dome is also studied as a regional river system to estimate the uplift rate.\n\nWater bodies\n\nWater bodies, for instance ocean and glaciers, could be studied using remote sensing. Here are two examples for plankton and glacier mapping.\n\nThe bloom of photosynthesizing phytoplankton is an ecological proxy to favorable environmental conditions. Satellite remote sensing in VNIR wavelength region help locate sporadic event of change in ocean colour due to relative increase in related absorption in spectral curve. Different band math (e.g. band ratio algorithms and spectral band difference) are developed to cater coastal and open water, and even some specific types of bloom (e.g. Coccolithophore blooms and Trichodesmium blooms). The capability of real-time monitoring by combined use of long term satellite data allows better insight into the ocean dynamics.\n\nThe mapping of glaciers is facilitated by remote sensing in contrast with carrying heavy equipment to dangerous icy land. Some notable applications include mapping of clean-ice and debris-covered glaciers, glacier fluctuation records, mass balance and volume change studies to aid generating topographic map and quantitative analysis. Similarly, automated approach using band math and DEM calculations using high resolution data is requisite to look into the glacial variations due to dynamic environmental conditions.\n\nGeological hazards cause casualties and serious damage to properties. While it is almost impossible to prevent naturally occurring disasters, their impact could be reduced and minimized with proper prior risk assessment and planning.\nEarthquakes manifest itself in movement of earth surface. Remote sensing can also help earthquake studies by two aspects. One is to better understand the local ground condition. For instance some soil type, which is prone to liquefaction (e.g. saturated loose alluvial material), do more damage under vibration and therefore earthquake hazard zoning may help in reducing property loss. Another one is to locate historical earthquakes in neotectonism (past 11000 years) and analysis its spatial distribution, and hence fault zones with structural ruptures are mapped for further investigations. From a geodetic perspective, the radar technique (SAR Interferometry, also called InSAR) provides land displacement measurement up to cm scale. SAR interferometry is a technology utilizing multiple SAR images recording the backscattering of microwave signal. The returning signal can be used to estimate the distance between ground and satellite. When two images are obtained at the same point but at different time, some pixels showing delayed returns reveal displacement, assuming no ground change. A displacement map (interferogram) is generated to visualize the changes with a precision up to a half of the wavelength i.e. cm grade. Another similar technique is Global Positioning System (GPS), which records the displacement with time of discrete points through trilateration of microwave GPS satellite signals. The same idea and principle to measure ground displacement could also be extended to other natural hazards monitoring, such as volcanisms, landslides and avalanches. The mid-IR thermal (11–12 micrometer) satellite images have shown some thermal fields in geological active areas, such as lineation and fault systems. Aside from these long-lived thermal fields, there are some positive thermal anomalies of 3–4 °C on land surface or around −5 °C for sea water in earthquake epicenter areas. The contrast appears 7–14 days prior to the earth movement. Though the observation is supported by laboratory experiments, the possible causes of these differences are still debatable.\n\nMangrove offers protection against tsunami and storms from sweeping away inland areas because the mangrove fringes were damaged and took all the energy. Remote sensing of mangrove and vegetation as a natural barrier to manage risks therefore becomes a hot topic. The recent advancement and development is highly anticipated in the near future, especially as hyperspectral imaging system and very high resolution (up to sub meter grade) satellite images prevails. New classification schemes distinguishing species from composition could be developed for environmental studies. Estimation leaf area, canopy height, biomass and productivity could also be improved with the emergence of existing and forthcoming sensors and algorithms. Tsunami-induced inundation leads to change in coastal area, which could be quantified by remote sensing. Split-based approach to divide large images into subimages for further analysis by redefining change detection threshold have reduced computation time and have shown to be consistent with manual mapping of affected areas.\nThe dynamic magma underneath plates we are living on induces volcanic activity on earth’s surface. To advance the understanding in volcanological science and active volcano monitoring, the main data streams aided by remote sensing include surface deformation and thermal measurement plus the gas flux and composition. Seismicity is considered geophysical method on the other hand. The data could be collected throughout the eruption cycle, from unrest, to eruption then relaxation. For example, the Ultraviolet (UV) and VNIR region is sensitive to sulfur dioxide, one of the volcanic gases. BrO (formed from the bromine explosion within plumes) and CO are also possible candidates for volcanic monitoring these days. The thermal disturbance, for instance through temperature change in crater lakes and injection of hot gas into the atmosphere, could be detected using TIR sensors to automate volcano thermal alerts. The uplift and subsidence of ground could be quantified remotely by InSAR technique. The surficial manifestation of volcanism tends to favor simple geometries while complexities are introduced by subsurface interactions. While remote sensing is able to collect data of ground, 3-D modeling using finite element analysis added with geophysical subsurface survey is highly encouraged.\n\nLandslide is one form of mass wasting caused by gravity and slope instability. The rock and debris fall downward and outward from slope rapidly. Apart from site characterization through geological mapping, many of the remote sensing tools mentioned could be employed. For example, the use of aerial photos to update landslide inventory is popular in Hong Kong landslide studies. The LiDAR technique to create a High Resolution Digital Elevation Model (HRDEM) and Digital Terrain Model (DTM) with vegetation cover is crucial to the quantification of slope, slope aspect, stream power, drainage density and many more parameters for landslide hazard models. Microwave radar can also take part in landslide recognition in synthetic aperture radar (SAR) images and monitoring through the InSAR technique which effectively shows small scale deformation. The hazard risk management could be further discussed using geographical information system (GIS).\n\nIn the context of economic geology, the surficial data help locate possible reserves of natural resources.\n\nThe occurrence of nature reserves that are exploitable is in close association with the surrounding geology. Feasible resources explorations should be backed up by accurate geological models to locate prospect ore and petroleum deposits from a preliminary regional overview. Remote sensing can provide scalable investigation as the exploration program progress at a reasonable expenditure. One example is to monitor the surface deformation in a mine using InSAR time series. Another example is using short wavelength region in VNIR to estimate the petroleum reservoir because VNIR can provide both accurate distance measurement by lidar and spectral data from spectral scanning. One point to bear in mind is the inherit limitation, that remote sensing is for surface detection while natural resources are concentrated in depth, therefore its use is somewhat limited. Nonetheless, there are some proxies providing valuable inputs, including the following examples\nA new method is proposed in respect to the above rock alteration means, in light of the deficiencies in low reflectance due to vegetation cover and the ambiguity of some minerals, for instance kaolinite which may or may not be resultant altered mineral. The overall spectral shape from hyperspectral imaging is considered first, followed by absorption bands, in their algorithm. Correlation coefficients for each pixel is then calculated by comparison between the remote sensing data and ground field data. The decision would be assigned to each pixel by the most susceptible dominant object, but not by setting up threshold.\n\nTargeting groundwater resources for supply is one of the ultimate goals in water management. While much of the information is indeed provided from hydrogeology, geophysical methods and drilling, the remote sensing technique, using the same principle to integrate data collected for the surface, can infer possible confined/ unconfined aquifers. For instance in radar data (ground penetrating radar), which is able to penetrate the ground deep into meters, may show some diffuse reflection for ‘rough’ surface relative to the wavelength used. The change in lithology may suggest soft rock and unconsolidated sediments, where porosity is high.\n\nThe surficial vegetation studies are mainly accomplished by multispectral or hyperspectral image analysis, mainly because of the lower penetration depth and higher resolutions of VNIR wavelength region. There are a multitude of sensors, image processing and classification algorithms and result evaluation schemes from ancillary data available in vegetation analysis. As an example, rangeland characterization with regard to biomass quantity and quality could be inferred from hyperspectral data. The detection of photosynthetic active (standing live) versus non-photosynthetic active (standing dead) and their ratio in the area of interest supports the quantification of biomass. The quality of forage presented in Carbon:Nitrogen ratio could be estimated through hyperspectral data manipulation with greater than 80% accuracy.From a geological perspective, some superficial cover may obscure the area of interest in an image. With vegetation, the time-series of Normalized difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) which characterizes crop growth could derive soil patterns. The biogeographical gradient incorporating environmental parameters, such as floristic conditions, precipitation and temperature also provide clues to soil cover. Spectral unmixing technique assuming that the total reflectance of a pixel is a linear mix of component reflectance delineates objects contributing the resultant signal received in the sensor. Some other parameters and soil proxies such as non-photosynthetic vegetation cover, lichens, Plant Functional Types and Ellenberg indicator values are possible for soil characterization.\n\nAside from the Earth, remote sensing has made planetary exploration possible without sending an astronaut into space. For most planetary explorations, due to the thick atmosphere, radar is a suitable instrumentation to investigate planetary surface. Radar can penetrate the atmosphere and detect the surface roughness. Also, topographic maps could be derived from radar altimetry and InSAR methods, for instance in the mapping of Venus. As an example of planetary applications using remote sensing could be illustrated by the volcanism observation on Io, which features the highest amount of active volcanoes per square kilometer in the Solar System. While the importance of Io Volcanology is well documented as textbooks, new observations point out that the temporal evolution of spectral ratio between 2:5 micrometer thermal emissions (thermal signature) could infer eruption modes, from lava fountain down to silicic lava flows. Recent suggestion have been made to improve the spatial resolution to locate more accurately the heat source vent, so as to elucidate the unsolved puzzle of the volcanology, which is strongly related to the tidal heating caused by the orbital eccentricity of Jupiter. Modeling has shown that a suitable distance between the surveyed ground and the sensor has to be maintained to ensure a meaningful pixel size to resolve the Io surface. Remote sensing by satellite also reduces jittering as the sensor is held stable in space and gives accurate data in the absence of atmosphere for terrestrial observations, notwithstanding the strong radiation zone in Jupiter which dramatically limits sensor lifetime. All these promotes future instrumentation and orbit design.\n\nImage processing is crucial to convert raw data into useful information. For imaging remote sensing, where spectral data are collected and recorded in pixels of an image, a two dimensional representation. After removal of noise and calibration, images are then geo-referenced to relate pixel to real-life geography. The first-hand data are then corrected to remove noise such as atmospheric disturbance, structural effects and distortion. Remote sensing data are often validated by ground truth, which usually serves as training data in image classification to ensure quality. The image interpretation could be achieved by an interpreter or computation. The reliability of the map interpreted is high only if the expert has a thorough understanding of geomorphology, how the surface landscape could be shaped by possible interactions of numerous factors and the limitation of the method. Although there exist a wealth of experiences is present for visual interpretation of aerial photos, the method is time-consuming and prone to human errors. Digital supervised or unsupervised landform classification employing crisp or fuzzy clustering logic have opened new possibility to the viable solutions. However, computation algorithms are subject to scale dependence matters and arbitrary definition of class boundaries. The presence of vegetation cover and rugged terrain may also reduce the applicability. Statistical and computational algorithms to identify correlations are developing vigorously for image analysis. For example, the emergence of non-parametric classifiers such as neural network becomes an alternative in classifying massive data.\n\nThe remote sensing technique is intimately connected to later data interpretation and visualization, which is one of the capabilities in Geographical Information System (GIS). The GIS also allows input of other information such as socio-economic conditions and biophysical conditions in terms of layers. Further analyses in the same spatial extent are carried out and thematic maps are then generated for presentation. By no means could the application by integration of GIS and remote sensing be exhaustive, but here the topics of hydrology, landslide and urban planning are discussed.\n\nThere are a variety of applications of GIS and remote sensing data in water management, ranging from exploration, modeling of subsurface flow and natural recharge, pollution control and hydrogeologic process monitoring. In essence, the topography, vegetation cover, drainage landforms and aquifer types could be inferred from remote sensing data and images from various types of sensors and platform. A case study in Burdur, Turkey presenting the use of remote sensing data and spatial analysis performed by GIS is one of the pioneer projects. Remote sensing collected data for geology and lineament density while GIS derived drainage density, topography elevation, gradient, landuse and the annual rainfall data. With weighted overlay, a groundwater potential map is generated to locate possible new water sources.\n\nA wealth of literature has shown the use of the remote sensing techniques for landslide is successful in all recognition, monitoring and hazard assessment aspects. Besides the examples in Europe, landslides in Hong Kong brought casualties and property damage to the territory before the establishment of relevant government organization to carry out systematic studies to reduce risk of slope failure. The major contributing factors, similar to landslides all over the world, include geology, discontinuities (structural), weathering and rainfall. The intense rainfall (>2000mm/year) rapidly raises the pore pressure due to infiltration. While local hydrogeological models generated with the aid of in situ, for instance, piezometric measurements and discontinuity mapping, could help elucidate the kinematics of landslides, employing remote sensing for landslide evaluation in Hong Kong is never short of experience. For instance, Interferometric synthetic-aperture radar and aerial photo interpretation is the tool used in history for detecting surface deformation and updating landslide inventory respectively. GIS is also used to overlay layers of terrain (elevation and slope angle), lithology with rainfall data to generate landslide hazard maps. With the different weightings in respective parameters, the hazard could be zoned to get the risk controlled.\n\nRemote sensing has much potential in environmental applications. To name a few, the land use planning (for instance nuclear power plant location & dumping sites), monitoring of soil erosion and atmospheric pollution, vegetation etc. have been in great interest in the recent decade.\n"}
{"id": "55215417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55215417", "title": "Royal Brinkman", "text": "Royal Brinkman\n\nRoyal Brinkman is a supplier, installer and consultant for the professional horticultural industry. The company has more than 20 offices with several Dutch offices in: ’s-Gravenzande, Bleiswijk, Roosendaal, Venlo and Gameren. Other offices are based in England, France, Germany, Hungary, Spain, Poland, Turkey, Australia and Mexico. The managing board consists of Ton van Mil (CEO), Gert-Jan van Peer (CFO), Henry Janssen (CPO), Coert Rasenberg (Commercial Director) and Jan Schuttrups (Director International). \n\nRoyal Brinkman was founded in 1885 by Cor Brinkman. He started his business at ‘De Pepersteeg’ and visited growers to sell ‘’sparrietouw’’ ( a type of rope used for crates and tarpaulins on Westland barges but also for bundling asparagus ). Later he added ‘’kinnetjesnetten and bollenkinnetjes’’ to his assortment. These ropes were knit to nets in Scheveningen, where Cor Brinkman himself brought them. \nIn 1926 Brinkman won 1st prize on the great ‘Fruit and Vegetable exhibition in Utrecht’ with an electric sorting machine for tomatoes, ‘’de doppenmachine’’. This improved version of the ‘’Brinkman Puncher’’ became a huge success. \nThe founders’ son, Henk Brinkman, began hiring personnel. Cor Brinkman started at ‘de Pepersteeg’ (currently Havenstraat) in ’s-Gravenzande. The business grew really fast and moved in 1917 to the Market Place, known as the ‘’Kousenhoek’’. Due to the great success the company had achieved, a new branch was opened in 1931. \n\nDuring the 2nd World War Brinkman experienced some serious problems. The 30’s were a difficult period for the horticultural industry. On top of that the building in the Market Place was hit by a fierce fire. The car fleet (3 trucks), wood stock and machinery were lost. Founder Cor Brinkman’s grandson, Henk Brinkman (3rd generation), started as Managing Director in this difficult period. The nazi’s claimed Brinkman’s property in ’s-Gravenzande, therefore they were forced to move to the wood factory ‘’In ’t Veld en de Jong’’. This new location in De Lier was used as headquarters. After a while the seizure ended. \n\nDuring this difficult period Brinkman managed to rebuild everything. The horticultural industry revived after the war because of new growing methods, new crops, automation, irrigation pipes and heating systems. These were glory days for Brinkman. Important developments were the introduction of the Micom 85 horticulture computer ( advanced computer which controlled the climate in the greenhouse) and the switch from soil to cultivation. Brinkman initiated the cultivation of tomatoes, carnations and geberas in peat substrate. After that Grodan introduced cultivation on stone wool. Growers experienced a lot of benefits growing above ground, including the prevention of soil diseases, higher revenues, energy savings and surface optimalization. Brinkman developed the Vocom, a computer that is able to dose water and fertilizers properly for the cultivation on substrate. These computers were a big hit in the 70’s and 80’s. \n\nBrinkman moved in 1972 from ‘’Kousenhoek’’ to the former Auction Hall at the Woutersweg in ’s-Gravenzande. The grand opening of the new 45,000 m² property was a huge milestone for Brinkman and for Westland. Within five days more than 11,000 guests visited the new property. The headquarters are still located at the Woutersweg. Increasing demands from abroad led to the first branch in Burstwick, near Hull (UK) in 1972. Brinkman began exporting in 1930, to the UK.\n\nOn April the 1st 1985, Brinkman received the ‘’Royal’’ predicate. In the name of the Dutch Queen Beatrix, Brinkman received this predicate for it’s 100th anniversary. Mies Bouwman awarded this Royal predicate to Cor Brinkman and Henk Brinkman. Elco Brinkman, at the time minister of the Dutch Government, congratulated Henk and Cor Brinkman personally (no family connection). \n\n"}
{"id": "26043398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26043398", "title": "Seven Ranges Terminus", "text": "Seven Ranges Terminus\n\nSeven Ranges Terminus is a stone surveying marker near Magnolia, Ohio that marks the completion of the first step in opening the lands northwest of the Ohio River to sale and settlement by Americans. This survey marked the first application of the rectangular plan for subdividing land.\n\nWith victory in the Revolutionary War, the Treaty of Paris granted the United States lands north of the Ohio River, south of the Great Lakes, and east of the Mississippi River, called the Northwest Territory. The US Congress adopted the Land Ordinance of 1785 as a method for surveying, selling and settling these lands. This ordinance established a method for surveying the land into a grid of six mile square survey townships. These townships were to be arranged into vertical rows called “Ranges”. The first ranges were to be measured from a meridian along the western boundary of Pennsylvania. The townships in each range were measured from an east-west line called a baseline. This became the genesis of the techniques used in the Public Land Survey System.\n\nThe 1785 ordinance called for the Geographer of the United States, Thomas Hutchins, to personally supervise the first survey. It called for Hutchins to establish a Point of Beginning on the north bank of the Ohio River where it leaves Pennsylvania. From there he was to establish a baseline seven ranges wide, (42 miles), called the “Geographer’s Line”, and then survey north-south lines each six miles to mark the edges of the ranges, and then establish the south boundary of each township. After each seven ranges had been completed, the Geographer was to return plats to the federal government for marketing and sale.\n\nHutchins, along with prominent surveyors from ten states appointed by Congress, began surveying the Geographer's Line in 1785, but stopped after only a few miles because of troubles with Indians. In 1786, with protection of troops from Fort Steuben, Hutchins resumed the survey. In September 1786, Hutchins placed a stone cadastral survey marker at the west edge of the seventh range on the Geographer's Line, a spot later to be known as the Seven Ranges Terminus. After the first surveyed seven ranges had been completed some years later, the survey tract was known as the Seven Ranges, or Old Seven Ranges.\n\nThe survey marker lies at the corner of four townships, three counties, and three survey tracts:\n\nThe marker is property of the federal government, but surrounded by private property. It sits about 288 feet to the west of a public road.\n\nThe granite cadastral survey marker is six inches square in cross section with an inscribed X on top, and about a foot protrudes from the ground. Much more is buried. The Canton Repository said August 7, 2003 that the stone leans somewhat because someone tried to dig it up some years ago, before realizing how deep it is buried. Another plausible reason for lean would be two centuries of frost heave.\n\nThe Seven Ranges Terminus was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1976 for its association with the historic significance of Thomas Hutchins.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1610199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1610199", "title": "Singapore Strait", "text": "Singapore Strait\n\nThe Singapore Strait (; Malay and Indonesian: \"Selat Singapura\") is a 105-kilometer long, 16-kilometer wide strait between the Strait of Malacca in the west and the Karimata Strait in the east. Singapore is on the north of the channel and the Riau Islands are on the south. The Indonesia-Singapore border lies along the length of the strait.\n\nIt includes Keppel Harbour and many small islands. The strait provides the deepwater passage to the Port of Singapore, which makes it very busy. Approximately 2,000 merchant ships traverse the waters on a daily basis. The depth of the Singapore Strait limits the maximum draft of vessels going through the Straits of Malacca, and the Malaccamax ship class.\n\nThe 9th century AD Muslim author Ya'qubi referred a \"Bahr Salahit\" or Sea of Salahit (from the Malay \"selat\" meaning strait), one of the Seven Seas to be traversed to reach China. Some have interpreted Sea of Salahit as referring to Singapore, although others generally considered it the Malacca Strait, a point of contact between the Arabs and the Zābaj (likely Sumatra). Among early Europeans travellers to South East Asia, the Strait of Singapore may refer to the whole or the southern portion of the Strait of Malacca as well as other stretches of water. Historians also used the term in plural, \"Singapore Straits\", to refer to three or four different straits found in recorded in old texts and maps – the Old Strait of Singapore between Sentosa and Telok Blangah, the New Strait of Singapore southwest of Sentosa, the \"Governor's Strait\" or \"Strait of John de Silva\" which corresponds to Phillip Channel, and the Tebrau Strait. Today the Singapore Strait refers to the main channel of waterway south of Singapore where the international border between Singapore and Indonesia is located.\n\nThe strait was mined by the British during the Second World War.\n\nIn 2009 the Maersk Kendal grounded on the Monggok Sebarok reef.\n\nThe International Hydrographic Organization defines the limits of the Singapore Strait as follows:\n\n\"On the West.\" The Eastern limit of Malacca Strait [A line joining Tanjong Piai (Bulus), the Southern extremity of the Malay Peninsula () and The Brothers () and thence to Klein Karimoen ()].\n\n\"On the East.\" A line joining Tanjong Datok, the Southeast point of Johore () through Horsburgh Reef to Pulo Koko, the Northeastern extreme of Bintan Island ().\n\n\"On the North.\"\nThe Southern shore of Singapore Island, Johore Shoal and the Southeastern coast of the Malay Peninsula.\n\n\"On the South.\" A line joining Klein Karimoen to Pulo Pemping Besar () thence along the Northern coasts of Batam and Bintan Islands to Pulo Koko.\nPilot guides and charts of the Malacca and Singapore straits have been published for a considerable time due to the nature of the straits \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24063072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24063072", "title": "Subdivisions of Mozambique", "text": "Subdivisions of Mozambique\n\nMozambique is divided into ten provinces (\"provincias\") and one capital city (\"cidade capital\") with provincial status. The provinces are subdivided into 129 districts (\"distritos\"). The districts are further divided in 405 \"Postos Administrativos\" (Administrative Posts) and then into Localidades (Localities), the lowest geographical level of the central state administration. Since 1998, 33 \"Municípios\" (Municipalities) have been created in Mozambique.\n"}
{"id": "7657521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7657521", "title": "Telephone numbers in Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Telephone numbers in Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nThe country calling code of Bosnia and Herzegovina is +387.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina received the +387 code following the breakup of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1992. (which had +38 as the country code).\n\nAn example for calling telephones in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina is as follows:\n\n\nThis is a list of dialing codes in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nCalling codes in the table are assigned to new customers by the respective provider. However, it has been possible to change the operator and retain the old calling code (along with the rest of the phone number) since 2013.\n\nThe following special telephone numbers are valid across the country:\n\nToll-free numbers by operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina:\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina once was a part of Yugoslavia. While the international prefix for Yugoslavia was +38, places in Bosnia and Herzegovina were assigned phonecodes (and postcodes) beginning with 7 and 8. If the phonecode of a city was 0xx, the appropriate postcode was xx000. These postcodes are still valid.\n\n\"Note: the codes listed below are now all obsolete. However, they are still used at times to identify places in Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly 071 (Sarajevo), 078 (Banja Luka) and 075 (Tuzla).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51346461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51346461", "title": "Theodor Capidan", "text": "Theodor Capidan\n\nTheodor Capidan (–September 1, 1953) was an Ottoman-born Romanian linguist. An ethnic Aromanian from the Macedonia region, he studied at Leipzig before teaching school at Thessaloniki. Following the creation of Greater Romania at the end of World War I, Capidan followed his friend Sextil Pușcariu to the Transylvanian capital Cluj, where he spent nearly two decades, the most productive part of his career. He then taught in Bucharest for a further ten years and was marginalized late in life under the nascent communist regime. Capidan's major contributions involve studies of the Aromanians and the Megleno-Romanians, as well as their respective languages. His research extended to reciprocal influences between Romanian and the surrounding Slavic languages, the Eastern Romance substratum and the Balkan sprachbund, as well as toponymy. He made a significant contribution to projects for a Romanian-language dictionary and atlas.\n\nHe was born into an Aromanian family in Prilep, a town that formed part of the Ottoman Empire's Manastir Vilayet and is now in the Republic of Macedonia. His parents were the tailor Teohari Capidan and his wife Eugenia Vreta. After attending primary school in his native town, he followed his elder brother Pericle, a future painter, in emigrating to the Romanian Old Kingdom. Slated to become a Romanian Orthodox priest, he studied at the central seminary in Bucharest, but decided he had a different vocation and left in order to pursue a teaching career. Capidan returned to Macedonia, where he was hired at the Romanian high school in Bitola and displayed talent in teaching Romanian and German. With the help of the Romanian consul, he obtained a scholarship that allowed him to study Romance philology at Leipzig University from 1904 to 1908. His professors included Karl Brugmann, Gustav Weigand, August Leskien, Eduard Sievers and Wilhelm Wundt. His thesis, awarded \"cum laude\", dealt with Aromanian linguistics. While a student, Capidan published his first works on Aromanian dialectology and cultural history. After graduating and until 1909, he served as assistant at Weigand's Balkan Institute. In 1907, he met and began a lifelong friendship with Sextil Pușcariu, who, after putting him through a three-month trial period in Czernowitz, invited the student to help with his Romanian-language dictionary project.\n\nIn 1909, he was named Romanian language professor at the Romanian Higher School of Commerce in Thessaloniki. The following year, he became director of an institution he transformed into an exemplary place of learning, preparing not just economists but also students with an aptitude for science and literature. Capidan was at the school until 1919, and used this period for research. He gathered dialectal, linguistic and folkloric material for future studies, undertook fieldwork and also used as subjects his students, Aromanians and Megleno-Romanians who came from throughout the Balkan peninsula. He wrote studies of linguistics and ethnography, and collaborated on Pușcariu's dictionary. In 1909, he penned a reply in French to those who questioned whether the Aromanian language is Romance in origin and character. Titled \"Réponse critique au Dictionnaire d'étymologie koutzovalaque de Constantin Nicolaïdi\", it features both an argument based on science and a satirical flourish. This paved the way for other polemical writings in which he Aromanians' Romance character.\n\nDuring World War I, in common with the majority of Aromanian intellectuals in Macedonia, Capidan entered the Thessaloniki-headquartered Armée d'Orient as a volunteer. After the war and the union of Transylvania with Romania, he was invited by Pușcariu to help place the new Superior Dacia University in Cluj on a solid foundation. From 1919 to 1924, he was associate professor in the Romanian language and dialectology department, lecturing on Aromanian and Megleno-Romanian. From 1924 to 1937, he was full professor of sub-Danubian dialectology and general linguistics. The Cluj years were the most productive and happiest of his life. He was among the most important representatives within the school of linguistics that centered around Pușcariu. He worked diligently at the Museum of the Romanian Language and was a consistent contributor to its journal, \"Dacoromania\". He continued to provide input on the dictionary as well as on the \"Romanian Linguistic Atlas\".\n\nHis contribution to the dictionary involved an enormous sacrifice of time and energy; the work was exigent and tiresome. Pușcariu recalled how his colleague, together with Constantin Lacea, would sit daily in front of files for three or four hours, more than once ripping apart an article on which they had worked for a week and restarting in a more logical fashion. Regarding the linguistic atlas, his assistance to Sever Pop involved material on the Aromanians and the Megleno-Romanians. The favorable intellectual climate in Cluj fostered his seminal works on the Aromanians and Megleno-Romanians, establishing him as an authority in the field. Elected a corresponding member of the Romanian Academy in 1928, he was elevated to titular status in 1935. His maiden speech, on the Balkan Romance peoples, was followed by a warm welcome from Pușcariu.\n\nIn 1937, Capidan was invited to the University of Bucharest, where he was made head of the comparative philology department heretofore led by the late Iuliu Valaori. He remained there until 1947, when he was obliged to retire. Extending his scientific interests into a wider field, he used his knowledge of linguistics and of the Balkan languages to emerge as a researcher with original views in the comparative study of the Indo-European languages. He also spurred development of the area among Romanian academics. He relaunched the Thracological studies of Bogdan Petriceicu Hasdeu, employing more modern methods. He published a critical and historical study of Hasdeu, placing him in the context of the development of Romanian linguistics and philology and championing his merits as an Indo-Europeanist. For years, his laudatory view of Hasdeu retained a definitive status in regard to this sphere of his activity. Capidan held a special course on Thraco-Phrygian, later turning the material into a study on guttural occlusives in Thracian. He also published a series of etymological notes on the extinct language in the bulletin of the Academy's literary section, which he co-edited with his friend Dumitru Caracostea. He collaborated closely with Victor Papacostea at the latter's Institute of Balkan Studies, and in editing \"Balcania\" magazine. Together with Papacostea and George Murnu, he published \"Revista macedo-română\".\n\nIn 1948, the new communist regime stripped him of Academy membership after Capidan refused to sign an adulatory telegram for Joseph Stalin. However, upon the intervention of Iorgu Iordan, he was allowed to continue working on the dictionary as an outside collaborator with the Linguistics Institute. Still involved with the project until his last months, when weakening vision forced him to abandon it, he died in 1953. In accordance with his wishes, was cremated in a simple ceremony. Capidan was married to Iulia George Dan, a housewife. The couple's only child, Emil, was born in 1912 and studied literature and philosophy at Cluj.\n\nCapidan's research interests focused on the realities of the sub-Danubian Romance peoples, the Aromanians and the Megleno-Romanians. He published numerous articles and studies on the subject, culminating in two valuable monographs that have been called classics of the field. His writing on linguistics combines a rich linguistic analysis with geographic, historical and socio-cultural facts about the peoples he studied, looking at their lifestyle and ethnographic profile. He helped resolve the controversy over where their ethnogenesis took place. By looking at certain linguistic peculiarities, he concluded that the proto-Romanian language was divided into two zones. One was the northern, which developed into Daco-Romanian (from which Istro-Romanian later split); and the southern, which subsequently became differentiated into Aromanian and Megleno-Romanian. At the same time, he defended the notion of Megleno-Romanian as a separate dialect, noting the existence of nearly forty fundamental differences with Aromanian.\n\nEmploying findings drawn from fieldwork, Capidan made observations about the bilingualism or even multilingualism of the sub-Danubian Romance peoples, and was the first Romanian scholar to study this phenomenon systematically. He classified bilingualism into two types: natural or unconscious, and deliberate or scholarly. He discussed the causes, evolution and implications of bilingualism, discovering evidence of linguistic interference, the first step toward the dialects' convergence and ultimate disappearance.\n\nFluent not only in these two Romance languages, but also in Bulgarian, Greek, Albanian and Turkish, he studied the relationship between Romanian and the Balkan languages. Within this context, he addressed the issue of the Eastern Romance substratum. Initially, he believed that only a small part of the common features displayed by Romanian and Albanian were due to a shared native element, attributing the great majority of links to a reciprocal influence. He later radically changed position, asserting that these commonalities were mainly due to a joint pre-Roman lineage. Capidan argued that the substrate's influence was visible not only at the lexical level, but also in phonetics and morphology. He noted that a part of the substrate elements extant in Daco-Romanian are absent south of the Danube.\n\nCapidan studied various issues relating to linguistic and cultural ties between Romanians and Slavs. He argued that Old Slavic influence on Romanian began at some point in the 8th or 9th century, and that most of this influence came from Bulgarian, while a part was Serbian. Analyzing the common Slavic lexicon of Daco-Romanian, Aromanian and Megleno-Romanian, he found 72 such terms. However, he noted that the latter two languages may have absorbed a part of these from Albanian or Greek at a later date, after splitting off from proto-Romanian. At the same time, Capidan was the first linguist who undertook a systematic study of Romanian's influence on the South Slavic languages. Although his comments on Serbian were limited to a few observations, he wrote an ample study with regard to Bulgarian.\n\nAlthough his original contributions regarding the Balkan sprachbund were few, he and Pușcariu were among those who laid the foundation for strictly scientific research into cultural and linguistic relations among the Balkan peoples. Capidan believed that the region's languages shared certain words pertaining to a common civilization, remarkably similar in their semantic evolution, as well as common traits in phraseology and proverbs. However, he thought that their morphological construction was more divergent. Thus, while initially embracing the sprachbund idea, he eventually came to reject the idea of a linguistic union comparable to the Romance or Germanic languages, as well as an approach that studied the Balkan languages as being related.\n\nCapidan was interested in toponymy, particularly south of the Danube. During his Leipzig days, he delivered a report on the Slavic place names of Thessaly and Epirus. Over the years, he offered etymological explanations for a large number of place names. He used several of these to argue for the idea that certain Aromanians were native to Greece, basing the theory on their phonetic transformations found only in the Latin elements of Romanian. Other names helped determine their inhabitants' occupation, leading him to conclude that the Megleno-Romanians' involvement with sheepherding was as extensive as their agricultural work.\n\nIn his later years, Capidan published the first book on Aromanian and Megleno-Romanian toponymy, as well as a Romanian toponymic dictionary. The latter work included an important finding on rural Geto-Dacian toponymy: that place names, usually four-syllabled, were composed of a variable \"determinant\" and an invariable \"determined element\". The invariable portion was \"-dava\" in Geto-Dacian and \"-para\" in Thracian south of the Danube. Capidan was the first to attempt to explain why the two differed, somewhat anomalously since the Geto-Dacians and the Thracians spoke the same language. He proposed that the difference lay in the physical characteristics of the land occupied by the two groups. Drawing on Indo-European roots, he indicated that the suffix \"-para\" suggests a ford, crossing or path, and is suitable to Thracian settlements, typically found in valleys, along roads and paths. On the other hand, \"-dava\" refers to settlements or villages. This arose out of the Geto-Dacians' main occupation as farmers, their villages scattered among fields. Capidan asserted that they felt the need to name these placed with a term meaning, simply, \"settlement\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3174404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3174404", "title": "Timeline of Peruvian history", "text": "Timeline of Peruvian history\n\nThis is a timeline of Peruvian history, comprising important legal & territorial changes and political events in Peru and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of Peru. See also the list of presidents of Peru.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10228077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10228077", "title": "UBIGEO", "text": "UBIGEO\n\nUbigeo is the coding system for geographical locations (Spanish: \"Código Ubicacíon Geográfica\") in Peru used by the National Statistics and Computing Institute (Spanish: \"Instituto Nacional de Estadística e Informática\" INEI) to code the first-level administrative subdivision: regions (Spanish: \"regiones\", singular: \"región\"), the second-level administrative subdivision: provinces (Spanish: \"provincias\", singular: \"provincia\") and the third-level administrative subdivision: districts (Spanish: \"distritos\", singular: \"distrito\").\n\nThe coding system uses two-digit numbers for each level of subdivision. The first level starts numbering at codice_1 for the Amazonas Region and continues in alphabetical order up to codice_2 for the Ucayali Region. Additional regions will be added to the end of the list, starting with the first available number.\n\nThe second level starts with codice_3 for the first province in the Amazonas region: Chachapoyas Province and continues up to codice_4 for the last province Purús in the Ucayali Region. The provinces are numbered per region with the first province always being the one in which the regions capital is located. The remaining provinces are coded in alphabetical order. Additional provinces will be added per region to the end of the list, starting with the first available province number.\n\nThe third level; starts with codice_5 for the first district in the first province in the Amazonas region: Chachapoyas District and continues up to codice_6 for the last district in the last province of the Ucayali region: Purús District. The districts are numbered per province with the first district always being the one in which the province’ capital is located. The remaining districts are coded in alphabetical order. Additional districts will be added per province to the end of the list, starting with the first available district number.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23790802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23790802", "title": "UK-DMC 2", "text": "UK-DMC 2\n\nUK-DMC 2 is a British Earth imaging satellite which is operated by DMC International Imaging. It was constructed by Surrey Satellite Technology, based on the SSTL-100 satellite bus. It is part of Britain's contribution to the Disaster Monitoring Constellation, which is coordinated by DMC International Imaging. It is the successor to the UK-DMC satellite.\n\nUK DMC-2 was launched into a sun-synchronous low Earth orbit. The launch was conducted by ISC Kosmotras, using a Dnepr carrier rocket, with DubaiSat-1 being the primary payload. UK-DMC 2, along with the Deimos-1, Nanosat 1B, AprizeSat-3 and AprizeSat-4 satellites, were the rocket's secondary payload. The launch occurred at 18:46 GMT on 29 July 2009, with the rocket lifting off from Site 109/95 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan.\n\nThe satellite has a mass of and a design life of five years. It carries a multi-spectral imager with a resolution of and of swath, operating in green, red and near infrared spectra.\n\nThe satellite is also known as \"Blue Peter 1,\" and its construction and launch were followed by children's television.\n\nKids in Space from The National Archive\n\n"}
{"id": "56846684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56846684", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of Ethiopia", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of Ethiopia\n\nEthiopia requires its residents to register their motor vehicles and display vehicle registration plates.Current plates feature Ge'ez text.\n\nThe very first Italian registration plates, from 1913 to the end of the 1920s, were rectangular, with a white background and with the name or initials of the colony in red followed by the registration number, on a single line, but the documentation on this is fragmentary. For the Italian colonial troops, however, special military service plates were used with the initials SOM (Somalia) or T (Tripolitania) in front.\nSubsequently, until 1935, the Italian colonies used white plates on black with a colonial code on the first line, and up to 5 numbers on the second line. The numbers, in relief, were assigned serially and the plates were made of metal, with the fasces as a seal. The colonial codes were:\n\n\nBetween 1937 and 1941 there was an Italian governorate in Ethiopia and in those years a new type of Italian license plate was issued. They were exactly the same as the previous ones, but they had three squares on the left, colored top to bottom green, white and red, like the Italian flag, with the letters AOI (\"Africa Orientale Italiana\") for Italian East Africa inside. The front plates resembled standard Italian front license plates, as these were smaller, and only sometimes had the colored squares like the rear license plates. The abbreviations used to indicate the origin are:\n"}
{"id": "56819485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56819485", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of the Marshall Islands", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of the Marshall Islands\n\nThe Marshall Islands requires its residents to register their motor vehicles and display vehicle registration plates. Current plates are North American standard 6 × 12 inches (152 × 300 mm).\n"}
{"id": "1024930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1024930", "title": "William J. Watson", "text": "William J. Watson\n\nWilliam J. Watson (1865–1948) was a toponymist, one of the greatest Scottish scholars of the 20th century, and was the first scholar to place the study of Scottish place names on a firm linguistic basis.\n\nWatson was a native Gaelic-speaker, born in Milntown of New Tarbat (now known as Milton), Easter Ross. He was the son of Hugh Watson, a blacksmith. He received his initial education from his uncle, James Watson. William became well grounded in Gaelic studies and the Classics. He went to the University of Aberdeen and the University of Oxford.\n\nFirst a school teacher in Glasgow, Inverness and then Edinburgh, it was while teaching in Inverness that he began to contribute to the \"Transactions of the Gaelic Society of Inverness\" and the \"Celtic Review\". He married Ella Carmichael daughter of Alexander Carmichael. He took the chair of Celtic at the University of Edinburgh in 1914, despite holding no prior university position. He remained in this prestigious position until making way for his son James Carmichael Watson in 1938. William died aged 83 on 9 March 1948.\n\nHe is best known for his \"The Celtic Place-names of Scotland\" (1926), based on 30 years of work. Watson's work, eight decades later, is still the primary scholarly reference guide on the subject. The book is based on extensive notes taken by Watson, which are unpublished and held by the University of Edinburgh. Watson's great work was recently republished by \"Birlinn\" (2004).\n\n\n"}
