{"id": "10568006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10568006", "title": "All-electric range", "text": "All-electric range\n\nAll-electric range (AER) is the driving range of a vehicle using only power from its electric battery pack to traverse a given driving cycle. In the case of a battery electric vehicle, it means the total range per charge. For a plug-in hybrid (PHEV), it means the range of the vehicle in charge-depleting mode. PHEVs can travel considerably further in charge-sustaining mode which uses both on-board fuel and the battery pack.\n\nCalculating AER is made more complicated because of variations in PHEV design. A vehicle like the Fisker Karma that uses a serial hybrid design has a clear AER. Similarly a vehicle like the Chevrolet Volt which disengages the internal combustion engine (ICE) from the drive train while in electric mode has a clear AER, however blended mode PHEVs which use the ICE and electric motor in conjunction do not have a clear AER because they use gasoline and grid provided electricity at the same time. \"Equivalent AER\" is the AER of vehicles following this architecture. One example of this calculation can be found in Argonne National Labs report titled \"TEST PROCEDURES AND BENCHMARKING Blended-Type and EV-Capable Plug-In Hybrid Electric Vehicles.\"\n\nThis procedure uses the formula below to calculate an equivalent AER for vehicles that operate in blended mode:\n\nWhere GPM designates efficiency in charge-depleting mode, and GPM charge-sustaining mode as designated and \"d\" is distance in charge depleting mode.\n\nA plug-in hybrid's all-electric range is designated by PHEV-\"(miles)\" or PHEV\"(kilometers)\"km representing the distance the vehicle can travel on battery power alone. For example, a PHEV-20 can travel 20 miles without using its internal combustion engine, or about 32 kilometers, so it may also be designated as PHEV32km.\n"}
{"id": "2254029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2254029", "title": "Astrophysical plasma", "text": "Astrophysical plasma\n\nAstrophysical plasma is plasma outside of the solar system. It is studied as part of astrophysics and is commonly observed in space. The accepted view of scientists is that much of the baryonic matter in the universe exists in this state.\n\nWhen matter becomes sufficiently hot, it becomes ionized and forms a plasma. This process breaks matter into its constituent particles which includes negatively-charged electrons and positively-charged ions. These electrically-charged particles are susceptible to influences by local electromagnetic fields. This includes strong fields generated by stars, and weak fields which exist in star forming regions, in interstellar space, and in intergalactic space. Similarly, electric fields are observed in some stellar astrophysical phenomena, but they are inconsequential in very low-density gaseous mediums.\n\nAstrophysical plasma is often differentiated from space plasma, which typically refers to the plasma of the Sun, the solar wind, and the ionospheres and magnetospheres of the Earth and other planets.\n\nPlasmas in stars can both generate and interact with magnetic fields, resulting in a variety of dynamic astrophysical phenomena. These phenomena are sometimes observed in spectra due to the Zeeman effect. Other forms of astrophysical plasmas can be influenced by preexisting weak magnetic fields, whose interactions may only be determined directly by polarimetry or other indirect methods. In particular, the intergalactic medium, the interstellar medium, the interplanetary medium and solar winds consist of diffuse plasmas.\n\nAstrophysical plasma may also be studied in a variety of ways as they emit electromagnetic radiation across a wide range of the electromagnetic spectrum. Because astrophysical plasmas are generally hot, electrons in the plasmas are continually emitting X-rays through the process called bremsstrahlung. This radiation may be detected with X-ray telescopes located in the upper atmosphere or in space. Astrophysical plasmas also emit radio waves and gamma rays.\n\nScientists are interested in active galactic nuclei because such astrophysical plasmas could be directly related to the plasmas studied in laboratories. Many of these phenomena seemingly exhibit an array of complex magnetohydrodynamic behaviors, such as turbulence and instabilities. Although these phenomena may occur on astronomical scales as large as the galactic core, many astrophysicists suggest that they do not significantly involve plasma effects but are caused by matter consumed by super massive black holes.\n\nIn Big Bang cosmology, the entire universe was in a plasma state prior to recombination. Afterwards, much of the universe reionized after the first quasars formed. \n\nStudying astrophysical plasmas is part of mainstream academic astrophysics. Though plasma processes are part of the standard cosmological model, current theories indicate that they might have only a minor role to play in forming the very largest structures, such as voids, galaxy clusters and superclusters.\n\nNorwegian explorer and physicist Kristian Birkeland predicted that space is filled with plasma. He wrote in 1913: Birkeland assumed that most of the mass in the universe should be found in \"empty\" space.\n\nIn 1937, plasma physicist Hannes Alfvén argued that if plasma pervaded the universe, then it could generate a galactic magnetic field. During the 1940s and 1950s, Alfvén developed magnetohydrodynamics which enables plasmas to be modeled as waves in a fluid. Alfvén received the 1970 Nobel Prize in Physics for this development. Alfvén later proposed this as the possible basis of plasma cosmology, although this theory has faced scrutiny.\n\n"}
{"id": "52293571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52293571", "title": "Bloom Wind", "text": "Bloom Wind\n\nBloom Wind is a 178 Megawatt wind farm in the American state of Kansas. The farm is situated on 15,000 acres of privately-owned land near Dodge City.\n\n"}
{"id": "3755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3755", "title": "Boron", "text": "Boron\n\nBoron is a chemical element with symbol B and atomic number 5. Produced entirely by cosmic ray spallation and supernovae and not by stellar nucleosynthesis, it is a low-abundance element in the Solar system and in the Earth's crust. Boron is concentrated on Earth by the water-solubility of its more common naturally occurring compounds, the borate minerals. These are mined industrially as evaporites, such as borax and kernite. The largest known boron deposits are in Turkey, the largest producer of boron minerals.\n\nElemental boron is a metalloid that is found in small amounts in meteoroids but chemically uncombined boron is not otherwise found naturally on Earth. Industrially, very pure boron is produced with difficulty because of refractory contamination by carbon or other elements. Several allotropes of boron exist: amorphous boron is a brown powder; crystalline boron is silvery to black, extremely hard (about 9.5 on the Mohs scale), and a poor electrical conductor at room temperature. The primary use of elemental boron is as boron filaments with applications similar to carbon fibers in some high-strength materials.\n\nBoron is primarily used in chemical compounds. About half of all boron consumed globally is an additive in fiberglass for insulation and structural materials. The next leading use is in polymers and ceramics in high-strength, lightweight structural and refractory materials. Borosilicate glass is desired for its greater strength and thermal shock resistance than ordinary soda lime glass. Boron as sodium perborate is used as a bleach. A small amount of boron is used as a dopant in semiconductors, and reagent intermediates in the synthesis of organic fine chemicals. A few boron-containing organic pharmaceuticals are used or are in study. Natural boron is composed of two stable isotopes, one of which (boron-10) has a number of uses as a neutron-capturing agent.\n\nIn biology, borates have low toxicity in mammals (similar to table salt), but are more toxic to arthropods and are used as insecticides. Boric acid is mildly antimicrobial, and several natural boron-containing organic antibiotics are known. Boron is an essential plant nutrient and boron compounds such as borax and boric acid are used as fertilizers in agriculture, although it only required in small amounts, with excess being toxic. Boron compounds play a strengthening role in the cell walls of all plants. There is no consensus on whether boron is an essential nutrient for mammals, including humans, although there is some evidence it supports bone health.\n\nThe word \"boron\" was coined from \"borax\", the mineral from which it was isolated, by analogy with \"carbon\", which boron resembles chemically.\nBorax, its mineral form then known as tincal, glazes were used in China from AD 300, and some crude borax reached the West, where the Perso-Arab alchemist Jābir ibn Hayyān apparently mentioned it in AD 700. Marco Polo brought some glazes back to Italy in the 13th century. Agricola, around 1600, reports the use of borax as a flux in metallurgy. In 1777, boric acid was recognized in the hot springs (soffioni) near Florence, Italy, and became known as \"sal sedativum\", with primarily medical uses. The rare mineral is called sassolite, which is found at Sasso, Italy. Sasso was the main source of European borax from 1827 to 1872, when American sources replaced it. Boron compounds were relatively rarely used until the late 1800s when Francis Marion Smith's Pacific Coast Borax Company first popularized and produced them in volume at low cost.\n\nBoron was not recognized as an element until it was isolated by Sir Humphry Davy and by Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac and Louis Jacques Thénard. In 1808 Davy observed that electric current sent through a solution of borates produced a brown precipitate on one of the electrodes. In his subsequent experiments, he used potassium to reduce boric acid instead of electrolysis. He produced enough boron to confirm a new element and named the element \"boracium\". Gay-Lussac and Thénard used iron to reduce boric acid at high temperatures. By oxidizing boron with air, they showed that boric acid is an oxidation product of boron. Jöns Jakob Berzelius identified boron as an element in 1824. Pure boron was arguably first produced by the American chemist Ezekiel Weintraub in 1909.\n\nThe earliest routes to elemental boron involved the reduction of boric oxide with metals such as magnesium or aluminium. However, the product is almost always contaminated with borides of those metals. Pure boron can be prepared by reducing volatile boron halides with hydrogen at high temperatures. Ultrapure boron for use in the semiconductor industry is produced by the decomposition of diborane at high temperatures and then further purified by the zone melting or Czochralski processes.\n\nThe production of boron compounds does not involve the formation of elemental boron, but exploits the convenient availability of borates.\n\nBoron is similar to carbon in its capability to form stable covalently bonded molecular networks. Even nominally disordered (amorphous) boron contains regular boron icosahedra which are, however, bonded randomly to each other without long-range order. Crystalline boron is a very hard, black material with a melting point of above 2000 °C. It forms four major polymorphs: α-rhombohedral and β-rhombohedral (α-R and β-R), γ and β-tetragonal (β-T); α-tetragonal phase also exists (α-T), but is very difficult to produce without significant contamination. Most of the phases are based on B icosahedra, but the γ-phase can be described as a rocksalt-type arrangement of the icosahedra and B atomic pairs. It can be produced by compressing other boron phases to 12–20 GPa and heating to 1500–1800 °C; it remains stable after releasing the temperature and pressure. The T phase is produced at similar pressures, but higher temperatures of 1800–2200 °C. As to the α and β phases, they might both coexist at ambient conditions with the β phase being more stable. Compressing boron above 160 GPa produces a boron phase with an as yet unknown structure, and this phase is a superconductor at temperatures 6–12 K. Borospherene (fullerene-like B) molecules) and borophene (proposed graphene-like structure) have been described in 2014.\n\nElemental boron is rare and poorly studied because the pure material is extremely difficult to prepare. Most studies of \"boron\" involve samples that contain small amounts of carbon. The chemical behavior of boron resembles that of silicon more than aluminium. Crystalline boron is chemically inert and resistant to attack by boiling hydrofluoric or hydrochloric acid. When finely divided, it is attacked slowly by hot concentrated hydrogen peroxide, hot concentrated nitric acid, hot sulfuric acid or hot mixture of sulfuric and chromic acids.\n\nThe rate of oxidation of boron depends on the crystallinity, particle size, purity and temperature. Boron does not react with air at room temperature, but at higher temperatures it burns to form boron trioxide:\nBoron undergoes halogenation to give trihalides; for example,\nThe trichloride in practice is usually made from the oxide.\n\nIn the most familiar compounds, boron has the formal oxidation state III. These include oxides, sulfides, nitrides, and halides.\n\nThe trihalides adopt a planar trigonal structure. These compounds are Lewis acids in that they readily form adducts with electron-pair donors, which are called Lewis bases. For example, fluoride (F) and boron trifluoride (BF) combined to give the tetrafluoroborate anion, BF. Boron trifluoride is used in the petrochemical industry as a catalyst. The halides react with water to form boric acid.\n\nBoron is found in nature on Earth almost entirely as various oxides of B(III), often associated with other elements. More than one hundred borate minerals contain boron in oxidation state +3. These minerals resemble silicates in some respect, although boron is often found not only in a tetrahedral coordination with oxygen, but also in a trigonal planar configuration. Unlike silicates, the boron minerals never contain boron with coordination number greater than four. A typical motif is exemplified by the tetraborate anions of the common mineral borax, shown at left. The formal negative charge of the tetrahedral borate center is balanced by metal cations in the minerals, such as the sodium (Na) in borax. The tourmaline group of borate-silicates is also a very important boron-bearing mineral group, and a number of borosilicates are also known to exist naturally.\n\nBoranes are chemical compounds of boron and hydrogen, with the generic formula of BH. These compounds do not occur in nature. Many of the boranes readily oxidise on contact with air, some violently. The parent member BH is called borane, but it is known only in the gaseous state, and dimerises to form diborane, BH. The larger boranes all consist of boron clusters that are polyhedral, some of which exist as isomers. For example, isomers of BH are based on the fusion of two 10-atom clusters.\n\nThe most important boranes are diborane BH and two of its pyrolysis products, pentaborane BH and decaborane BH. A large number of anionic boron hydrides are known, e.g. [BH].\n\nThe formal oxidation number in boranes is positive, and is based on the assumption that hydrogen is counted as −1 as in active metal hydrides. The mean oxidation number for the borons is then simply the ratio of hydrogen to boron in the molecule. For example, in diborane BH, the boron oxidation state is +3, but in decaborane BH, it is / or +1.4. In these compounds the oxidation state of boron is often not a whole number.\n\nThe boron nitrides are notable for the variety of structures that they adopt. They exhibit structures analogous to various allotropes of carbon, including graphite, diamond, and nanotubes. In the diamond-like structure, called cubic boron nitride (tradename Borazon), boron atoms exist in the tetrahedral structure of carbons atoms in diamond, but one in every four B-N bonds can be viewed as a coordinate covalent bond, wherein two electrons are donated by the nitrogen atom which acts as the Lewis base to a bond to the Lewis acidic boron(III) centre. Cubic boron nitride, among other applications, is used as an abrasive, as it has a hardness comparable with diamond (the two substances are able to produce scratches on each other). In the BN compound analogue of graphite, hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN), the positively charged boron and negatively charged nitrogen atoms in each plane lie adjacent to the oppositely charged atom in the next plane. Consequently, graphite and h-BN have very different properties, although both are lubricants, as these planes slip past each other easily. However, h-BN is a relatively poor electrical and thermal conductor in the planar directions.\n\nA large number of organoboron compounds are known and many are useful in organic synthesis. Many are produced from hydroboration, which employs diborane, BH, a simple borane chemical. Organoboron(III) compounds are usually tetrahedral or trigonal planar, for example, tetraphenylborate, [B(CH)] vs. triphenylborane, B(CH). However, multiple boron atoms reacting with each other have a tendency to form novel dodecahedral (12-sided) and icosahedral (20-sided) structures composed completely of boron atoms, or with varying numbers of carbon heteroatoms.\n\nOrganoboron chemicals have been employed in uses as diverse as boron carbide (see below), a complex very hard ceramic composed of boron-carbon cluster anions and cations, to carboranes, carbon-boron cluster chemistry compounds that can be halogenated to form reactive structures including carborane acid, a superacid. As one example, carboranes form useful molecular moieties that add considerable amounts of boron to other biochemicals in order to synthesize boron-containing compounds for boron neutron capture therapy for cancer.\n\nAlthough these are not found on Earth naturally, boron forms a variety of stable compounds with formal oxidation state less than three. As for many covalent compounds, formal oxidation states are often of little meaning in boron hydrides and metal borides. The halides also form derivatives of B(I) and B(II). BF, isoelectronic with N, cannot be isolated in condensed form, but BF and BCl are well characterized.\n\nBinary metal-boron compounds, the metal borides, contain boron in negative oxidation states. Illustrative is magnesium diboride (MgB). Each boron atom has a formal −1 charge and magnesium is assigned a formal charge of +2. In this material, the boron centers are trigonal planar with an extra double bond for each boron, forming sheets akin to the carbon in graphite. However, unlike hexagonal boron nitride, which lacks electrons in the plane of the covalent atoms, the delocalized electrons in magnesium diboride allow it to conduct electricity similar to isoelectronic graphite. In 2001, this material was found to be a high-temperature superconductor.\n\nCertain other metal borides find specialized applications as hard materials for cutting tools. Often the boron in borides has fractional oxidation states, such as −1/3 in calcium hexaboride (CaB).\n\nFrom the structural perspective, the most distinctive chemical compounds of boron are the hydrides. Included in this series are the cluster compounds dodecaborate (), decaborane (BH), and the carboranes such as CBH. Characteristically such compounds contain boron with coordination numbers greater than four.\n\nBoron has two naturally occurring and stable isotopes, B (80.1%) and B (19.9%). The mass difference results in a wide range of δB values, which are defined as a fractional difference between the B and B and traditionally expressed in parts per thousand, in natural waters ranging from −16 to +59. There are 13 known isotopes of boron, the shortest-lived isotope is B which decays through proton emission and alpha decay. It has a half-life of 3.5×10 s. Isotopic fractionation of boron is controlled by the exchange reactions of the boron species B(OH) and [B(OH)]. Boron isotopes are also fractionated during mineral crystallization, during HO phase changes in hydrothermal systems, and during hydrothermal alteration of rock. The latter effect results in preferential removal of the [B(OH)] ion onto clays. It results in solutions enriched in B(OH) and therefore may be responsible for the large B enrichment in seawater relative to both oceanic crust and continental crust; this difference may act as an isotopic signature.\n\nThe exotic B exhibits a nuclear halo, i.e. its radius is appreciably larger than that predicted by the liquid drop model.\n\nThe B isotope is useful for capturing thermal neutrons (see neutron cross section#Typical cross sections). The nuclear industry enriches natural boron to nearly pure B. The less-valuable by-product, depleted boron, is nearly pure B.\n\nBecause of its high neutron cross-section, boron-10 is often used to control fission in nuclear reactors as a neutron-capturing substance. Several industrial-scale enrichment processes have been developed; however, only the fractionated vacuum distillation of the dimethyl ether adduct of boron trifluoride (DME-BF) and column chromatography of borates are being used.\n\nEnriched boron or B is used in both radiation shielding and is the primary nuclide used in neutron capture therapy of cancer. In the latter (\"boron neutron capture therapy\" or BNCT), a compound containing B is incorporated into a pharmaceutical which is selectively taken up by a malignant tumor and tissues near it. The patient is then treated with a beam of low energy neutrons at a relatively low neutron radiation dose. The neutrons, however, trigger energetic and short-range secondary alpha particle and lithium-7 heavy ion radiation that are products of the boron + neutron nuclear reaction, and this ion radiation additionally bombards the tumor, especially from inside the tumor cells.\n\nIn nuclear reactors, B is used for reactivity control and in emergency shutdown systems. It can serve either function in the form of borosilicate control rods or as boric acid. In pressurized water reactors, boric acid is added to the reactor coolant when the plant is shut down for refueling. It is then slowly filtered out over many months as fissile material is used up and the fuel becomes less reactive.\n\nIn future manned interplanetary spacecraft, B has a theoretical role as structural material (as boron fibers or BN nanotube material) which would also serve a special role in the radiation shield. One of the difficulties in dealing with cosmic rays, which are mostly high energy protons, is that some secondary radiation from interaction of cosmic rays and spacecraft materials is high energy spallation neutrons. Such neutrons can be moderated by materials high in light elements, such as polyethylene, but the moderated neutrons continue to be a radiation hazard unless actively absorbed in the shielding. Among light elements that absorb thermal neutrons, Li and B appear as potential spacecraft structural materials which serve both for mechanical reinforcement and radiation protection.\n\nCosmic radiation will produce secondary neutrons if it hits spacecraft structures. Those neutrons will be captured in B, if it is present in the spacecraft's semiconductors, producing a gamma ray, an alpha particle, and a lithium ion. Those resultant decay products may then irradiate nearby semiconductor \"chip\" structures, causing data loss (bit flipping, or single event upset). In radiation-hardened semiconductor designs, one countermeasure is to use \"depleted boron\", which is greatly enriched in B and contains almost no B. This is useful because B is largely immune to radiation damage. Depleted boron is a byproduct of the nuclear industry.\n\nB is also a candidate as a fuel for aneutronic fusion. When struck by a proton with energy of about 500 keV, it produces three alpha particles and 8.7 MeV of energy. Most other fusion reactions involving hydrogen and helium produce penetrating neutron radiation, which weakens reactor structures and induces long-term radioactivity, thereby endangering operating personnel. However, the alpha particles from B fusion can be turned directly into electric power, and all radiation stops as soon as the reactor is turned off.\n\nBoth B and B possess nuclear spin. The nuclear spin of B is 3 and that of B is . These isotopes are, therefore, of use in nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy; and spectrometers specially adapted to detecting the boron-11 nuclei are available commercially. The B and B nuclei also cause splitting in the resonances of attached nuclei.\n\nBoron is rare in the Universe and solar system due to trace formation in the Big Bang and in stars. It is formed in minor amounts in cosmic ray spallation nucleosynthesis and may be found uncombined in cosmic dust and meteoroid materials.\n\nIn the high oxygen environment of Earth, boron is always found fully oxidized to borate. Boron does not appear on Earth in elemental form. Extremely small traces of elemental boron were detected in Lunar regolith\n\nAlthough boron is a relatively rare element in the Earth's crust, representing only 0.001% of the crust mass, it can be highly concentrated by the action of water, in which many borates are soluble.\nIt is found naturally combined in compounds such as borax and boric acid (sometimes found in volcanic spring waters). About a hundred borate minerals are known.\n\nOn September 5, 2017, scientists reported that the \"Curiosity\" rover detected boron, an essential ingredient for life on Earth, on the planet Mars. Such a finding, along with previous discoveries that water may have been present on ancient Mars, further supports the possible early habitability of Gale Crater on Mars.\n\nEconomically important sources of boron are the minerals colemanite, rasorite (kernite), ulexite and tincal. Together these constitute 90% of mined boron-containing ore. The largest global borax deposits known, many still untapped, are in Central and Western Turkey, including the provinces of Eskişehir, Kütahya and Balıkesir. Global proven boron mineral mining reserves exceed one billion metric tonnes, against a yearly production of about four million tonnes.\n\nTurkey and the United States are the largest producers of boron products. Turkey produces about half of the global yearly demand, through Eti Mine Works () a Turkish state-owned mining and chemicals company focusing on boron products. It holds a government monopoly on the mining of borate minerals in Turkey, which possesses 72% of the world's known deposits. In 2012, it held a 47% share of production of global borate minerals, ahead of its main competitor, Rio Tinto Group.\n\nAlmost a quarter (23%) of global boron production comes from the single Rio Tinto Borax Mine (also known as the U.S. Borax Boron Mine) near Boron, California.\n\nThe average cost of crystalline boron is $5/g. Free boron is chiefly used in making boron fibers, where it is deposited by chemical vapor deposition on a tungsten core (see below). Boron fibers are used in lightweight composite applications, such as high strength tapes. This use is a very small fraction of total boron use. Boron is introduced into semiconductors as boron compounds, by ion implantation.\n\nEstimated global consumption of boron (almost entirely as boron compounds) was about 4 million tonnes of BO in 2012. Boron mining and refining capacities are considered to be adequate to meet expected levels of growth through the next decade.\n\nThe form in which boron is consumed has changed in recent years. The use of ores like colemanite has declined following concerns over arsenic content. Consumers have moved toward the use of refined borates and boric acid that have a lower pollutant content.\n\nIncreasing demand for boric acid has led a number of producers to invest in additional capacity. Turkey's state-owned Eti Mine Works opened a new boric acid plant with the production capacity of 100,000 tonnes per year at Emet in 2003. Rio Tinto Group increased the capacity of its boron plant from 260,000 tonnes per year in 2003 to 310,000 tonnes per year by May 2005, with plans to grow this to 366,000 tonnes per year in 2006. Chinese boron producers have been unable to meet rapidly growing demand for high quality borates. This has led to imports of sodium tetraborate (borax) growing by a hundredfold between 2000 and 2005 and boric acid imports increasing by 28% per year over the same period.\n\nThe rise in global demand has been driven by high growth rates in glass fiber, fiberglass and borosilicate glassware production. A rapid increase in the manufacture of reinforcement-grade boron-containing fiberglass in Asia, has offset the development of boron-free reinforcement-grade fiberglass in Europe and the USA. The recent rises in energy prices may lead to greater use of insulation-grade fiberglass, with consequent growth in the boron consumption. Roskill Consulting Group forecasts that world demand for boron will grow by 3.4% per year to reach 21 million tonnes by 2010. The highest growth in demand is expected to be in Asia where demand could rise by an average 5.7% per year.\n\nNearly all boron ore extracted from the Earth is destined for refinement into boric acid and sodium tetraborate pentahydrate. In the United States, 70% of the boron is used for the production of glass and ceramics.\nThe major global industrial-scale use of boron compounds (about 46% of end-use) is in production of glass fiber for boron-containing insulating and structural fiberglasses, especially in Asia. Boron is added to the glass as borax pentahydrate or boron oxide, to influence the strength or fluxing qualities of the glass fibers. Another 10% of global boron production is for borosilicate glass as used in high strength glassware. About 15% of global boron is used in boron ceramics, including super-hard materials discussed below. Agriculture consumes 11% of global boron production, and bleaches and detergents about 6%.\n\nBoron fibers (boron filaments) are high-strength, lightweight materials that are used chiefly for advanced aerospace structures as a component of composite materials, as well as limited production consumer and sporting goods such as golf clubs and fishing rods. The fibers can be produced by chemical vapor deposition of boron on a tungsten filament.\n\nBoron fibers and sub-millimeter sized crystalline boron springs are produced by laser-assisted chemical vapor deposition. Translation of the focused laser beam allows production of even complex helical structures. Such structures show good mechanical properties (elastic modulus 450 GPa, fracture strain 3.7%, fracture stress 17 GPa) and can be applied as reinforcement of ceramics or in micromechanical systems.\n\nFiberglass is a fiber reinforced polymer made of plastic reinforced by glass fibers, commonly woven into a mat. The glass fibers used in the material are made of various types of glass depending upon the fiberglass use. These glasses all contain silica or silicate, with varying amounts of oxides of calcium, magnesium, and sometimes boron. The boron is present as borosilicate, borax, or boron oxide, and is added to increase the strength of the glass, or as a fluxing agent to decrease the melting temperature of silica, which is too high to be easily worked in its pure form to make glass fibers.\n\nThe highly boronated glasses used in fiberglass are E-glass (named for \"Electrical\" use, but now the most common fiberglass for general use). E-glass is alumino-borosilicate glass with less than 1% w/w alkali oxides, mainly used for glass-reinforced plastics. Other common high-boron glasses include C-glass, an alkali-lime glass with high boron oxide content, used for glass staple fibers and insulation, and D-glass, a borosilicate glass, named for its low Dielectric constant).\n\nNot all fiberglasses contain boron, but on a global scale, most of the fiberglass used does contain it. Because the ubiquitous use of fiberglass in construction and insulation, boron-containing fiberglasses consume half the global production of boron, and are the single largest commercial boron market.\n\nBorosilicate glass, which is typically 12–15% BO, 80% SiO, and 2% AlO, has a low coefficient of thermal expansion giving it a good resistance to thermal shock. Schott AG's \"Duran\" and Owens-Corning's trademarked Pyrex are two major brand names for this glass, used both in laboratory glassware and in consumer cookware and bakeware, chiefly for this resistance.\n\nSeveral boron compounds are known for their extreme hardness and toughness.\nBoron carbide is a ceramic material which is obtained by decomposing BO with carbon in an electric furnace:\n\nBoron carbide's structure is only approximately BC, and it shows a clear depletion of carbon from this suggested stoichiometric ratio. This is due to its very complex structure. The substance can be seen with empirical formula BC (i.e., with B dodecahedra being a motif), but with less carbon, as the suggested C units are replaced with C-B-C chains, and some smaller (B) octahedra are present as well (see the boron carbide article for structural analysis). The repeating polymer plus semi-crystalline structure of boron carbide gives it great structural strength per weight. It is used in tank armor, bulletproof vests, and numerous other structural applications.\n\nBoron carbide's ability to absorb neutrons without forming long-lived radionuclides (especially when doped with extra boron-10) makes the material attractive as an absorbent for neutron radiation arising in nuclear power plants. Nuclear applications of boron carbide include shielding, control rods and shut-down pellets. Within control rods, boron carbide is often powdered, to increase its surface area.\n\nBoron carbide and cubic boron nitride powders are widely used as abrasives. Boron nitride is a material isoelectronic to carbon. Similar to carbon, it has both hexagonal (soft graphite-like h-BN) and cubic (hard, diamond-like c-BN) forms. h-BN is used as a high temperature component and lubricant. c-BN, also known under commercial name borazon, is a superior abrasive. Its hardness is only slightly smaller than, but its chemical stability is superior, to that of diamond. Heterodiamond (also called BCN) is another diamond-like boron compound.\n\nMetal borides are used for coating tools through chemical vapor deposition or physical vapor deposition. Implantation of boron ions into metals and alloys, through ion implantation or ion beam deposition, results in a spectacular increase in surface resistance and microhardness. Laser alloying has also been successfully used for the same purpose. These borides are an alternative to diamond coated tools, and their (treated) surfaces have similar properties to those of the bulk boride.\n\nFor example, rhenium diboride can be produced at ambient pressures, but is rather expensive because of rhenium. The hardness of ReB exhibits considerable anisotropy because of its hexagonal layered structure. Its value is comparable to that of tungsten carbide, silicon carbide, titanium diboride or zirconium diboride.\nSimilarly, AlMgB + TiB composites possess high hardness and wear resistance and are used in either bulk form or as coatings for components exposed to high temperatures and wear loads.\n\nBorax is used in various household laundry and cleaning products, including the \"20 Mule Team Borax\" laundry booster and \"Boraxo\" powdered hand soap. It is also present in some tooth bleaching formulas.\n\nSodium perborate serves as a source of active oxygen in many detergents, laundry detergents, cleaning products, and laundry bleaches. However, despite its name, \"Borateem\" laundry bleach no longer contains any boron compounds, using sodium percarbonate instead as a bleaching agent.\n\nBoric acid is used as an insecticide, notably against ants, fleas, and cockroaches.\n\nBoron is a useful dopant for such semiconductors as silicon, germanium, and silicon carbide. Having one fewer valence electron than the host atom, it donates a hole resulting in p-type conductivity. Traditional method of introducing boron into semiconductors is via its atomic diffusion at high temperatures. This process uses either solid (BO), liquid (BBr), or gaseous boron sources (BH or BF). However, after the 1970s, it was mostly replaced by ion implantation, which relies mostly on BF as a boron source. Boron trichloride gas is also an important chemical in semiconductor industry, however not for doping but rather for plasma etching of metals and their oxides. Triethylborane is also injected into vapor deposition reactors as a boron source. Examples are the plasma deposition of boron-containing hard carbon films, silicon nitride-boron nitride films, and for doping of diamond film with boron.\n\nBoron is a component of neodymium magnets (NdFeB), which are among the strongest type of permanent magnet. These magnets are found in a variety of electromechanical and electronic devices, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) medical imaging systems, in compact and relatively small motors and actuators. As examples, computer HDDs (hard disk drives), CD (compact disk) and DVD (digital versatile disk) players rely on neodymium magnet motors to deliver intense rotary power in a remarkably compact package. In mobile phones 'Neo' magnets provide the magnetic field which allows tiny speakers to deliver appreciable audio power.\n\nBoron shielding is used as a control for nuclear reactors, taking advantage of its high cross-section for neutron capture.\n\nIn pressurized water reactors a variable concentration of boronic acid in the cooling water is used to compensate the variable reactivity of the fuel: when new rods are inserted the concentration of boronic acid is maximal, and then reduced during the lifetime.\n\n\nBoric acid has antiseptic, antifungal, and antiviral properties and for these reasons is applied as a water clarifier in swimming pool water treatment. Mild solutions of boric acid have been used as eye antiseptics.\n\nBortezomib (marketed as Velcade and Cytomib). Boron appears as an active element in its first-approved organic pharmaceutical in the pharmaceutical bortezomib, a new class of drug called the proteasome inhibitors, which are active in myeloma and one form of lymphoma (it is in currently in experimental trials against other types of lymphoma). The boron atom in bortezomib binds the catalytic site of the 26S proteasome with high affinity and specificity.\n\nTavaborole (marketed as Kerydin) is a Aminoacyl tRNA synthetase inhibitor which is used to treat toenail fungus. It gained FDA approval in July 2014.\n\nDioxaborolane chemistry enables radioactive fluoride (F) labeling of antibodies or red blood cells, which allows for positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of cancer and hemorrhages, respectively.\n\nMagnesium diboride is an important superconducting material with the transition temperature of 39 K. MgB wires are produced with the powder-in-tube process and applied in superconducting magnets.\n\nAmorphous boron is used as a melting point depressant in nickel-chromium braze alloys.\n\nHexagonal boron nitride forms atomically thin layers, which have been used to enhance the electron mobility in graphene devices. It also forms nanotubular structures (BNNTs), which have with high strength, high chemical stability, and high thermal conductivity, among its list of desirable properties.\n\nBoron is an essential plant nutrient, required primarily for maintaining the integrity of cell walls. However, high soil concentrations of greater than 1.0 ppm lead to marginal and tip necrosis in leaves as well as poor overall growth performance. Levels as low as 0.8 ppm produce these same symptoms in plants that are particularly sensitive to boron in the soil. Nearly all plants, even those somewhat tolerant of soil boron, will show at least some symptoms of boron toxicity when soil boron content is greater than 1.8 ppm. When this content exceeds 2.0 ppm, few plants will perform well and some may not survive.\n\nIt is thought that boron plays several essential roles in animals, including humans, but the exact physiological role is poorly understood. A small human trial published in 1987 reported on postmenopausal women first made boron deficient and then repleted with 3 mg/day. Boron supplementation markedly reduced urinary calcium excretion and elevated the serum concentrations of 17 beta-estradiol and testosterone.\n\nThe U.S. Institute of Medicine has not confirmed that boron is an essential nutrient for humans, so neither a Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) nor an Adequate Intake have been established. Adult dietary intake is estimated at 0.9 to 1.4 mg/day, with about 90% absorbed. What is absorbed is mostly excreted in urine. The Tolerable Upper Intake Level for adults is 20 mg/day.\n\nIn 2013, a hypothesis suggested it was possible that boron and molybdenum catalyzed the production of RNA on Mars with life being transported to Earth via a meteorite around 3 billion years ago.\n\nThere exist several known boron-containing natural antibiotics. The first one found was boromycin, isolated from streptomyces.\n\nCongenital endothelial dystrophy type 2, a rare form of corneal dystrophy, is linked to mutations in SLC4A11 gene that encodes a transporter reportedly regulating the intracellular concentration of boron.\n\nFor determination of boron content in food or materials, the colorimetric \"curcumin method\" is used. Boron is converted to boric acid or borates and on reaction with curcumin in acidic solution, a red colored boron-chelate complex, rosocyanine, is formed.\n\nElemental boron, boron oxide, boric acid, borates, and many organoboron compounds are relatively nontoxic to humans and animals (with toxicity similar to that of table salt). The LD (dose at which there is 50% mortality) for animals is about 6 g per kg of body weight. Substances with LD above 2 g are considered nontoxic. An intake of 4 g/day of boric acid was reported without incident, but more than this is considered toxic in more than a few doses. Intakes of more than 0.5 grams per day for 50 days cause minor digestive and other problems suggestive of toxicity. Dietary supplementation of boron may be helpful for bone growth, wound healing, and antioxidant activity.\n\nSingle medical doses of 20 g of boric acid for neutron capture therapy have been used without undue toxicity.\n\nBoric acid is more toxic to insects than to mammals, and is routinely used as an insecticide.\n\nThe boranes (boron hydrogen compounds) and similar gaseous compounds are quite poisonous. As usual, it is not an element that is intrinsically poisonous, but their toxicity depends on structure. The boranes are also highly flammable and require special care when handling. Sodium borohydride presents a fire hazard owing to its reducing nature and the liberation of hydrogen on contact with acid. Boron halides are corrosive.\nBoron is necessary for plant growth, but an excess of boron is toxic to plants, and occurs particularly in acidic soil. It presents as a yellowing from the tip inwards of the oldest leaves and black spots in barley leaves, but it can be confused with other stresses such as magnesium deficiency in other plants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1043647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1043647", "title": "Burst charge", "text": "Burst charge\n\nIn fireworks, a burst charge is a pyrotechnic mixture placed in a shell which is ignited when the shell reaches the desired height in order to create an explosion and spread the stars. Burst charge compositions are usually coated onto rice hulls or other low-density fillers, which increases the rate of combustion.\n\n"}
{"id": "12987040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12987040", "title": "CLAW hypothesis", "text": "CLAW hypothesis\n\nThe CLAW hypothesis proposes a negative feedback loop that operates between ocean ecosystems and the Earth's climate. The hypothesis specifically proposes that particular phytoplankton that produce dimethyl sulfide are responsive to variations in climate forcing, and that these responses act to stabilise the temperature of the Earth's atmosphere. The CLAW hypothesis was originally proposed by Robert Jay Charlson, James Lovelock, Meinrat Andreae and Stephen G. Warren, and takes its acronym from the first letter of their surnames.\n\nThe hypothesis describes a feedback loop that begins with an increase in the available energy from the sun acting to increase the growth rates of phytoplankton by either a physiological effect (due to elevated temperature) or enhanced photosynthesis (due to increased irradiance). Certain phytoplankton, such as coccolithophorids, synthesise dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP), and their enhanced growth increases the production of this osmolyte. In turn, this leads to an increase in the concentration of its breakdown product, dimethyl sulfide (DMS), first in seawater, and then in the atmosphere. DMS is oxidised in the atmosphere to form sulfur dioxide, and this leads to the production of sulfate aerosols. These aerosols act as cloud condensation nuclei and increase cloud droplet number, which in turn elevate the liquid water content of clouds and cloud area. This acts to increase cloud albedo, leading to greater reflection of incident sunlight, and a decrease in the forcing that initiated this chain of events. The figure to the right shows a summarising schematic diagram. Note that the feedback loop can operate in the reverse direction, such that a decline in solar energy leads to reduced cloud cover and thus to an increase in the amount of solar energy reaching the Earth's surface.\n\nA significant feature of the chain of interactions described above is that it creates a negative feedback loop, whereby a change to the climate system (increased/decreased solar input) is ultimately counteracted and damped by the loop. As such, the CLAW hypothesis posits an example of planetary-scale homeostasis or complex adaptive system, consistent with the Gaia hypothesis framed by one of the original authors of the CLAW hypothesis, James Lovelock.\n\nSome subsequent studies of the CLAW hypothesis have uncovered evidence to support its mechanism, although this is not unequivocal. Other researchers have suggested that a CLAW-like mechanism may operate in the Earth's sulfur cycle without the requirement of an active biological component.\n\nIn his 2006 book \"The Revenge of Gaia\", Lovelock proposed that instead of providing negative feedback in the climate system, the components of the CLAW hypothesis may act to create a positive feedback loop.\n\nUnder future global warming, increasing temperature may stratify the world ocean, decreasing the supply of nutrients from the deep ocean to its productive euphotic zone. Consequently, phytoplankton activity will decline with a concomitant fall in the production of DMS. In a reverse of the CLAW hypothesis, this decline in DMS production will lead to a decrease in cloud condensation nuclei and a fall in cloud albedo. The consequence of this will be further climate warming which may lead to even less DMS production (and further climate warming). The figure to the right shows a summarising schematic diagram.\n\nEvidence for the anti-CLAW hypothesis is constrained by similar uncertainties as those of the sulfur cycle feedback loop of the CLAW hypothesis. However, researchers simulating future oceanic primary production have found evidence of declining production with increasing ocean stratification, leaving open the possibility that such a mechanism may exist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24709176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24709176", "title": "Carl G. Cromwell", "text": "Carl G. Cromwell\n\nCarl G. Cromwell (January 26, 1889 - September 27, 1931) was a Texas Oil Driller and Aviation Pioneer.\n\nCarl G. Cromwell was born the oldest of six children to Swedish immigrants John Nels Cromwell and Hannah Anderson, in Saybrook, Pennsylvania. Cromwell took an oilfield job at age sixteen. He worked in oil fields in Pennsylvania, Illinois, and Oklahoma, developing into a knowledgeable driller. After service with the 358th Infantry at Camp Travis in San Antonio, Texas, during World War I, he married Luella Lundsford in 1919. They moved to Texas, where Cromwell drilled around Burkburnett and other Texas oilfields.\n\nIn 1921, Texon Oil and Land Company contracted with Cromwell to drill in Reagan County on land owned by the University of Texas. On May 28, 1923, the Santa Rita No. 1 came in and produced great wealth for the University of Texas. Cromwell became drilling superintendent of the Texon Company's expanding field around the camp of Santa Rita. In December 1928, the Reagan County discovery well came in at 8,525 feet. At that time the Santa Rita University 1-B was the world's deepest well.\n\nCromwell was also an aviation pioneer. On November 1, 1929, he inaugurated Cromwell Airlines, an airline service between San Angelo and Dallas, Fort Worth, and San Antonio. While on a business trip in 1931, he was killed in an automobile accident near Sheffield, Pennsylvania.\n\n"}
{"id": "43524704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43524704", "title": "Carol Ruckdeschel", "text": "Carol Ruckdeschel\n\nCarol Ruckdeschel is a biologist, naturalist, environmental activist and author. As a Cumberland Island resident, she was involved in the creation and preservation of Cumberland Island National Seashore. She is the subject of the book \"\" by Will Harlan.\n\nShe does ongoing research on sea turtles and endangered and extinct species around the Georgia coast.\n\nHer residence on the north part of Cumberland Island is currently owned by The National Park Service, on the condition of her remaining there until her death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50084875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50084875", "title": "Carrefour de l'Arbre", "text": "Carrefour de l'Arbre\n\nCarrefour de l'Arbre, officially Pavé de Luchin, is a 2.1 km cobbled road in the municipalities of Camphin-en-Pévèle, Baisieux-Sin and Gruson, in the Nord department of Northern France. The location was the setting of the Battle of Bouvines, which ended the Anglo-French War in 1214. Today, the road is best known from the cycling classic Paris–Roubaix, where it has often proved decisive due to its proximity to Roubaix and cumulative difficulty.\n\nCarrefour de l'Arbre \"()\" is on open land between Gruson and Camphin-en-Pévèle. The road starts westward from Camphin-en-Pévèle along the \"Rue de Cysoing\" towards \"Camphin de l'Arbre\". The first half consists of a series of corners over highly irregular pavé towards Luchin. The second half starts after crossing an asphalt road and finishes at the \"Café de l'Arbre\" restaurant.\n\nThe road is one of three \"five-star\" pavé sectors of Paris–Roubaix, together with Mons-en-Pévèle and the Trouée d'Arenberg. It is considered one of the hardest passages of the race because of the bad state of the cobbles. As it comes at 15 km from the finish in Roubaix it is a pivotal location of the event and has often proved decisive.\n"}
{"id": "1461753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1461753", "title": "Colza oil", "text": "Colza oil\n\nColza oil or colza is a non-drying oil obtained from the seeds of rapeseed (\"Brassica napus\" subsp. \"napus\". syn. \"Brassica napus\" var. \"oleifera\" Delile, \"Brassica campestris\" subsp. \"napus\" (L.) Hook.f. & T.Anderson.) Colza is extensively cultivated in France, Belgium, the United States, the Netherlands, Germany and Poland. In France, especially, the extraction of the oil is an important industry. In commerce, colza is a traditional rapeseed oil (with turnip rape oil, sarson oil, toria oil (\"Brassica rapa\" ssp.), and ravison oil), to which they are very closely allied in both source and properties. It is a comparatively nonodoriferous oil of a yellow colour, having a specific gravity varying between 0.912 and 0.920. The cake left after extraction of the oil is a valuable feed ingredient for pigs.\n\nColza oil is extensively used as a lubricant for machinery.\n\nColza oil was used extensively in European domestic lighting before the advent of coal (city) gas or kerosene. It was the preferred oil for train pot lamps, and was used for lighting railway coaches in the United Kingdom before gas lighting, and later electric lighting, were adopted. Burned in a Carcel lamp, it was part of the definition of the French standard measure for illumination, the carcel, for most of the nineteenth century. In lighthouses, for example in early Canada, colza oil was used before the introduction of mineral oil. The colza oil was used with the Argand burner because it was cheaper than whale oil. Colza was burned to a limited extent in the Confederacy during the American Civil War.\n\nColza oil was used in Gombault's Caustic Balsam, a popular horse and human liniment at the turn of the 20th century. \n\nAmong the more unusual applications of colza oil is the calming of choppy seas, where the oil modifies the surface tension of the water and rapidly smooths the surface. For this purpose, colza oil was carried in ship's lifeboats. Rescue and recovery operations have been made far less risky in this way.\n\nMore recently, colza has been cultivated in Europe as an ingredient for biodiesel fuels, and is the primary source of biodiesel in Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "33912964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33912964", "title": "Contact paper", "text": "Contact paper\n\nContact paper is an adhesive paper used as a covering or lining.\n\nContact paper is an inexpensive material that has a decorative surface on one side and a highly adhesive material on the other side. The paper sticks to the desired surface with minimal effort. It is usually sold in roll form and the material is cut to size by the user. While its traditional use was as a shelf or drawer liner, it can be used in many creative ways. Teachers often use it for creative projects at school. Other uses of contact paper include use as laptop skins and protective book covers. \n\nContact paper is usually categorized by the kind of surface that it is supposed to stick to. Some of the types of contact paper include:\n\n\nMost contact paper products feature an easy-to-peel liner and an adhesive that allows for repositioning of the material during installation. The material can be cut to size with scissors for custom applications depending on the requirement.\n"}
{"id": "365435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=365435", "title": "Crystallite", "text": "Crystallite\n\nA crystallite is a small or even microscopic crystal which forms, for example, during the cooling of many materials. The orientation of crystallites can be random with no preferred direction, called random texture, or directed, possibly due to growth and processing conditions. Fiber texture is an example of the latter. Crystallites are also referred to as grains. The areas where crystallites meet are known as grain boundaries. Polycrystalline or multicrystalline materials, or polycrystals are solids that are composed of many crystallites of varying size and orientation. \n\nMost inorganic solids are polycrystalline, including all common metals, many ceramics, rocks, and ice. The extent to which a solid is crystalline (crystallinity) has important effects on its physical properties. Sulfur, while usually polycrystalline, may also occur in other allotropic forms with completely different properties. Although crystallites are referred to as grains, \"powder grains\" are different, as they can be composed of smaller polycrystalline grains themselves.\n\nWhile the structure of a (monocrystalline) crystal is highly ordered and its lattice is continuous and unbroken, amorphous materials, such as glass and many polymers, are non-crystalline and do not display any structures as their constituents are not arranged in an ordered manner. Polycrystalline structures and paracrystalline phases are in between these two extremes.\n\nCrystallite size is usually measured from X-ray diffraction patterns and grain size by other experimental techniques like transmission electron microscopy. Solid objects large enough to see and handle are rarely composed of a single crystal, except for a few cases (gems, silicon single crystals for the electronics industry, certain types of fiber, single crystals of a nickel-based superalloy for turbojet engines, and some ice crystals which can exceed 0.5 meters in diameter). Most materials are \"polycrystalline\", made of a large number of single crystals – crystallites – held together by thin layers of amorphous solid. The crystallite size can vary from a few nanometers to several millimeters.\n\nIf the individual crystallites are oriented completely at random, a large enough volume of polycrystalline material will be approximately isotropic. This property helps the simplifying assumptions of continuum mechanics to apply to real-world solids. However, most manufactured materials have some alignment to their crystallites, resulting in \"texture\" that must be taken into account for accurate predictions of their behavior and characteristics. When the crystallites are mostly ordered with just some random spread of orientations, one has a mosaic crystal.\n\nMaterial fractures can be either intergranular or a transgranular fracture. There is an ambiguity with powder grains: a powder grain can be made of several crystallites. Thus, the (powder) \"grain size\" found by laser granulometry can be different from the \"grain size\" (rather, crystallite size) found by X-ray diffraction (e.g. Scherrer method), by optical microscopy under polarised light, or by scanning electron microscopy (backscattered electrons).\n\nCoarse grained rocks are formed very slowly, while fine grained rocks are formed quickly, on geological time scales. If a rock forms very quickly, such as the solidification of lava ejected from a volcano, there may be no crystals at all. This is how obsidian forms.\n\nGrain boundaries are interfaces where crystals of different orientations meet. A grain boundary is a single-phase interface, with crystals on each side of the boundary being identical except in orientation. The term \"crystallite boundary\" is sometimes, though rarely, used. Grain boundary areas contain those atoms that have been perturbed from their original lattice sites, dislocations, and impurities that have migrated to the lower energy grain boundary.\n\nTreating a grain boundary geometrically as an interface of a single crystal cut into two parts, one of which is rotated, we see that there are five variables required to define a grain boundary. The first two numbers come from the unit vector that specifies a rotation axis. The third number designates the angle of rotation of the grain. The final two numbers specify the plane of the grain boundary (or a unit vector that is normal to this plane).\n\nGrain boundaries disrupt the motion of dislocations through a material. Dislocation propagation is impeded because of the stress field of the grain boundary defect region and the lack of slip planes and slip directions and overall alignment across the boundaries. Reducing grain size is therefore a common way to improve strength, often without any sacrifice in toughness because the smaller grains create more obstacles per unit area of slip plane. This crystallite size-strength relationship is given by the Hall-Petch relationship. The high interfacial energy and relatively weak bonding in grain boundaries makes them preferred sites for the onset of corrosion and for the precipitation of new phases from the solid.\n\nGrain boundary migration plays an important role in many of the mechanisms of creep. Grain boundary migration occurs when a shear stress acts on the grain boundary plane and causes the grains to slide. This means that fine-grained materials actually have a poor resistance to creep relative to coarser grains, especially at high temperatures, because smaller grains contain more atoms in grain boundary sites. Grain boundaries also cause deformation in that they are sources and sinks of point defects. Voids in a material tend to gather in a grain boundary, and if this happens to a critical extent, the material could fracture.\n\nDuring grain boundary migration, the rate determining step depends on the angle between two adjacent grains. In a small angle dislocation boundary, the migration rate depends on vacancy diffusion between dislocations. In a high angle dislocation boundary, this depends on the atom transport by single atom jumps from the shrinking to the growing grains.\n\nGrain boundaries are generally only a few nanometers wide. In common materials, crystallites are large enough that grain boundaries account for a small fraction of the material. However, very small grain sizes are achievable. In nanocrystalline solids, grain boundaries become a significant volume fraction of the material, with profound effects on such properties as diffusion and plasticity. In the limit of small crystallites, as the volume fraction of grain boundaries approaches 100%, the material ceases to have any crystalline character, and thus becomes an amorphous solid.\n\nGrain boundaries are also present in magnetic domains in magnetic materials. A computer hard disk, for example, is made of a hard ferromagnetic material that contains regions of atoms whose magnetic moments can be realigned by an inductive head. The magnetization varies from region to region, and the misalignment between these regions forms boundaries that are key to data storage. The inductive head measures the orientation of the magnetic moments of these domain regions and reads out either a “1” or “0”. These bits are the data being read. Grain size is important in this technology because it limits the number of bits that can fit on one hard disk. The smaller the grain sizes, the more data that can be stored.\n\nBecause of the dangers of grain boundaries in certain materials such as superalloy turbine blades, great technological leaps were made to minimize as much as possible the effect of grain boundaries in the blades. The result was directional solidification processing in which grain boundaries were eliminated by producing columnar grain structures aligned parallel to the axis of the blade, since this is usually the direction of maximum tensile stress felt by a blade during its rotation in an airplane. The resulting turbine blades consisted of a single grain, improving reliability.\n\nGenerally, polycrystals cannot be superheated; they will melt promptly once they are brought to a high enough temperature. This is because grain boundaries are amorphous, and serve as nucleation points for the liquid phase. By contrast, if no solid nucleus is present as a liquid cools, it tends to become supercooled. Since this is undesirable for mechanical materials, alloy designers often take steps against it. See grain refinement.\n\n"}
{"id": "50252192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50252192", "title": "Deralok Dam", "text": "Deralok Dam\n\nThe Rashava-Deralok Dam is a gravity dam currently being constructed on the Great Zab River just upstream of the town of Deralok in Dohuk Governorate, Kurdistan region of Iraq. For its primary purpose, the dam will support a 37.6 MW run-of-the-river hydroelectric power station. Construction on the dam began in November 2015 when Kurdish Prime Minister Nechirvan Barzani inaugurated the project. The US$129 million contract to build the dam and power station was awarded to a Boland Payeh-Farab Consortium. It is being financed by the Japan International Cooperation Agency. The project is expected to be complete in mid-2019.\n\nhttp://www.rudaw.net/english/kurdistan/191120152\n"}
{"id": "28355116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28355116", "title": "Dive! (film)", "text": "Dive! (film)\n\nDive! is an American documentary film directed by Jeremy Seifert.\n\nThe film follows director Jeremy Seifert and his friends as they dumpster dive behind several grocery stores in the Los Angeles area to demonstrate the massive amount of food that is wasted each year in America. After showing that much of the food found in dumpsters is perfectly edible, Seifert confronts the managers of the stores to question why they don't donate more of it to local food banks, especially in light of the 1996 Federal Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act, which protects them from liability for such donations. The legality and ethics of dumpster diving are discussed when the stores begin locking up their dumpsters. Finally, Seifert considers the waste created by individual consumers when they throw out food that is only partly bad or just past its expiration date.\n\n\"Dive!\" premiered in October 2009 at the Gig Harbor Film Festival, where it won the Audience Choice Award. It has gone on to win awards at many other film festivals, including Best Documentary at the DC Independent Film Festival and Best Film at the Dutch Environmental Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "241027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241027", "title": "Down quark", "text": "Down quark\n\nThe down quark or d quark (symbol: d) is the second-lightest of all quarks, a type of elementary particle, and a major constituent of matter. Together with the up quark, it forms the neutrons (one up quark, two down quarks) and protons (two up quarks, one down quark) of atomic nuclei. It is part of the first generation of matter, has an electric charge of − \"e\" and a bare mass of . Like all quarks, the down quark is an elementary fermion with spin , and experiences all four fundamental interactions: gravitation, electromagnetism, weak interactions, and strong interactions. The antiparticle of the down quark is the down antiquark (sometimes called \"antidown quark\" or simply \"antidown\"), which differs from it only in that some of its properties have equal magnitude but opposite sign.\n\nIts existence (along with that of the up and strange quarks) was postulated in 1964 by Murray Gell-Mann and George Zweig to explain the Eightfold Way classification scheme of hadrons. The down quark was first observed by experiments at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center in 1968.\n\nIn the beginnings of particle physics (first half of the 20th century), hadrons such as protons, neutrons, and pions were thought to be elementary particles. However, as new hadrons were discovered, the 'particle zoo' grew from a few particles in the early 1930s and 1940s to several dozens of them in the 1950s. The relationships between each of them was unclear until 1961, when Murray Gell-Mann and Yuval Ne'eman (independently of each other) proposed a hadron classification scheme called the Eightfold Way, or in more technical terms, SU(3) flavor symmetry.\n\nThis classification scheme organized the hadrons into isospin multiplets, but the physical basis behind it was still unclear. In 1964, Gell-Mann and George Zweig (independently of each other) proposed the quark model, then consisting only of up, down, and strange quarks. However, while the quark model explained the Eightfold Way, no direct evidence of the existence of quarks was found until 1968 at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center. Deep inelastic scattering experiments indicated that protons had substructure, and that protons made of three more-fundamental particles explained the data (thus confirming the quark model).\n\nAt first people were reluctant to identify the three-bodies as quarks, instead preferring Richard Feynman's parton description, but over time the quark theory became accepted (see \"November Revolution\").\n\nDespite being extremely common, the bare mass of the down quark is not well determined, but probably lies between 4.5 and . Lattice QCD calculations give a more precise value: .\n\nWhen found in mesons (particles made of one quark and one antiquark) or baryons (particles made of three quarks), the 'effective mass' (or 'dressed' mass) of quarks becomes greater because of the binding energy caused by the gluon field between quarks (see mass–energy equivalence). For example, the effective mass of down quarks in a proton is around . Because the bare mass of down quarks is so small, it cannot be straightforwardly calculated because relativistic effects have to be taken into account. Due to strong force mediated by gluons in the gluon field, the quarks move at roughly 99.995% of the speed of light, leading to Lorentz factor of roughly 100. As a result, the combined rest mass of quarks is barely 1% of proton or neutron mass.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18382894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18382894", "title": "EcoCute", "text": "EcoCute\n\nThe EcoCute is an energy efficient electric heat pump, water heating and supply system that uses heat extracted from the air to heat water for domestic, industrial and commercial use. Instead of the more conventional ammonia or haloalkane gases, EcoCute uses supercritical carbon dioxide as a refrigerant. The technology offers a means of energy conservation and reduces the emission of greenhouse gas.\n\nThe name of the EcoCute comes from the Japanese phrase , which literally means \"natural refrigerant heat pump water heater\". \"Eco\" is a contraction of either ecology or economical and \"Cute\" is a near homonym to ; literally “supply hot water.”\n\nModern chemical refrigeration techniques developed after the proposal of the Carnot cycle in 1824. Jacob Perkins invented an ice-making machine that used ether in 1843, and \"\" built a refrigerator that used water and sulfuric acid in 1850. In Japan, Fusanosuke Kuhara, founder of Hitachi, Ltd., made an air conditioner for his own home use using compressed CO as a refrigerant.\n\nIn 1930 Thomas Midgley, Jr. discovered dichlorodifluoromethane, a chlorinated fluorocarbon (CFC) known as freon. CFCs rapidly replaced traditional refrigerant substances, including CO (which proved hard to compress for domestic use), for use in heat pumps and refrigerators. But from the 1980s CFCs began to lose favor as refrigerant when their damaging effects on the ozone layer were discovered. Two alternative types of refrigerant, hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), also lost favour when they were identified as greenhouse gases (additionally, HCFCs were found to be more damaging to the ozone layer than originally thought). The Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer, the Montreal Protocol and the Kyoto Protocol call for the complete abandonment of such refrigerants by 2030.\n\nIn 1989, amid international concern about the effects of chlorofluorocarbons and hydrochlorofluorocarbons on the ozone layer, scientist Gustav Lorentzen and SINTEF patented a method for using CO as a refrigerant in heating and cooling. Further research into CO refrigeration was then conducted at Shecco (Sustainable Heating and Cooling with CO) in Brussels, Belgium, leading to increasing use of CO refrigerant technology in Europe.\n\nIn 1993 the Japanese company Denso, in collaboration with Gustav Lorentzen, developed an automobile air conditioner using CO as a refrigerant. They demonstrated the invention at the June 1998 International Institute of Refrigeration/Gustav Lorentzen Conference. After the conference, CRIEPI (Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry) and TEPCO (The Tokyo Electric Power Company) approached Denso about developing a prototype air conditioner using natural refrigerant materials instead of freon. Together they produced 30 prototype EcoCute units for a year-long experimental installation at locations throughout Japan, from the cold climate of Hokkaidō to hotter Okinawa. After this successful feasibility study, Denso obtained a patent to compress CO refrigerant for use in a heat pump from SINTEF in September 2000.\n\nThe first commercial domestic EcoCute was marketed in Japan by Corona Corporation in May 2001, and several manufacturers sold 1.5 million units there by October, 2008.\n\nFEPC reported 2 million EcoCute units had been delivered by end of October 2009, with the equivalent CO absorption of 9400 km² of forest.\n\nIn Japan in 1998, water heating () accounted for 33.8% of typical domestic energy consumption, with air conditioner and kerosene heater heating accounting for another 26.9% and cooling by air conditioner another 2.3%. Most of the remaining 37% was spent on electrical home appliances, a field where 21st century innovations in energy conservation began to make considerable energy savings. This left hot water supply as the most difficult area for energy conservation, leaving a gap in the market for the EcoCute. By January 2005, 26 Japanese companies were producing more than 450 models of EcoCute machines, and sales of domestic units increased 130-150% each year between 2001 and 2005.\n\nDenso first introduced the EcoCute outside Japan at the COP9 Milan, Italy on December 9, 2003. From 2007, Denso began concentrating on marketing the EcoCute in the EU. In Japan, the Japanese government incorporated the EcoCute into its CO reduction program under the Kyoto Protocol, mandating the installation of 5.2 million units in commercial and domestic properties by 2010. The cost of EcoCute is approximately 500 thousand Japanese yen as of February - March 2009.\n\nAn EcoCute machine or system consists of a heat pump and hot water storage unit. The sealed components are serially connected with refrigerant CO gas in circulation.\n\nThe EcoCute can derive two to five units of heat energy from ambient air for every unit of input electrical energy. It produces three to five units of hot water energy, resulting in reduced CO emissions compared to water heating via electricity or natural gas. To produce 90°C hot water, an EcoCute consumes 66% less electricity than an electric water heater, and costs 80% less than heating water via natural gas in Japan. Also, by reducing use of fossil fuels, the EcoCute results in more than 50% reductions in CO emissions\n\nNot considering upstream losses of input source energy, the EcoCute's COP is 3.8 in industrial use, while electric power water heating is 1.0, and gas boiler is 0.88 including pilot light loss.\n\n is a registered trademark (No. 4575216 - Japan) of Kansai Electric Power Company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38799183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38799183", "title": "Electron-hole droplets", "text": "Electron-hole droplets\n\nElectron-hole droplets are a condensed phase of excitons in semiconductors. The droplets are formed at low temperatures and high exciton densities, the latter of which can be created with intense optical excitation or electronic excitation in a p-n junction.\n\nEvidence for electron-hole droplets was first observed by J. R. Haynes of Bell Labs in 1966, who observed a frequency shift in the spectrum radiated by silicon at low temperatures (~3 K). The shift was attributed to the recombination of a bound state of two excitons (electron-hole pairs). V. M. Asnin and A. A. Rogachev discovered metallic conduction in germanium at low temperatures when the density of excitons exceeded the amount required to transition into a metallic state.\n"}
{"id": "14177264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14177264", "title": "Eugène Rutagarama", "text": "Eugène Rutagarama\n\nEugène Rutagarama is an environmentalist from Rwanda. He was awarded the Goldman Environmental Prize in 2001, for his efforts on saving the population of mountain gorillas in the Volcanoes National Park in the Virungas mountains, during the war and recent conflicts in the Democratic Republic of Congo.\n"}
{"id": "6852987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6852987", "title": "Fantom", "text": "Fantom\n\nFantom is a Swedish velomobile with four wheels, two in the front and two in the rear. It has no front suspension, but has suspension in the rear.\n\nFantom was never sold as a finished product. Instead it was sold as a set of drawings. The drawings are not exact and should be used as a guide. Hobbex bought the rights to the drawings and have sold it continuously since the 1940s apart from a short break in the 1990s. Over 100,000 copies of the drawing were sold, but few appear to have been completed.\n\nIn the 1980s the Fantom was rediscovered by Carl-Georg Rasmussen who built a redesigned version called Leitra.\n\n"}
{"id": "4364523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4364523", "title": "Fission products (by element)", "text": "Fission products (by element)\n\nOn this page, a discussion of each of the main elements in the fission product mixture from the nuclear fission of an actinide such as uranium or plutonium is set out by element.\n\nSe-79, half-life of 327k years, is one of the long-lived fission products.\n\nKrypton-85, half-life 10.76 years, is formed by the fission process with\na fission yield of about 0.3%. Only 20% of the fission products of mass 85 become Kr itself; the rest passes through a short-lived nuclear isomer and then to stable Rb. If irradiated reactor fuel is reprocessed, this radioactive krypton may be released into the air. This krypton release can be detected and used as a means of detecting clandestine nuclear reprocessing. Strictly speaking, the stage which is detected is the dissolution of used nuclear fuel in nitric acid, as it is at this stage that the krypton and other fission gases like the more abundant xenon are released.\n\nIncrease of fission gases above a certain limit can lead to fuel pin swelling and even puncture, so that fission gas measurement after discharging the fuel from the reactor is most important to make burn-up calculations, to study the nature of fuel inside the reactor, behaviour with pin materials, for effective utilization of fuel and also reactor safety.\n\nThe strontium radioisotopes are very important as strontium is a calcium mimic which is incorporated in bone growth and therefore has a great ability to harm humans. On the other hand, this also allows Sr to be used in the open source radiotherapy of bone tumors. This tends to be used in palliative care to reduce the pain due to secondary tumors in the bones.\n\nStrontium-90 is a strong beta emitter with a half-life of 28.8 years. Its fission product yield decreases as the mass of the fissile nuclide increases. A map of Sr contamination around Chernobyl has been published by the IAEA.\n\nThe only stable yttrium isotope, Y, will be found with yield somewhat less than 1% in a fission product mixture which has been allowed to age for months or years, as the other isotopes have half-lives of 106.6 days or less.\n\nSr decays into Y which is a beta emitter with a half-life of 2.67 days.\nY is sometimes used for medical purposes and can be obtained either by the neutron activation of stable Y or by using a device similar to a technetium cow.\n\nA significant amount of zirconium is formed by the fission process; some of this are short-lived radioactives (Zr and Zr which decay to molybdenum), while almost 10% of the fission products mixture after years of decay consists of five stable or nearly stable isotopes of zirconium plus Zr with a halflife of 1.53 million years which is one of the 7 major long-lived fission products.\n\nIn PUREX plants the zirconium sometimes forms a third phase which can be a disturbance in the plant. The third phase is the term in solvent extraction given to a third layer (such as foam and/or emulsion) which forms from the two layers in the solvent extraction process. The zirconium forms the third phase by forming small particles which stabilise the emulsion which is the third phase.\n\nNiobium-95 with a halflife of 35 days is initially present as a fission product. The only stable isotope of niobium has mass number 93, and fission products of mass 93 become relatively stable zirconium-93 (half life 1.53 Ma).\n\nThe fission product mixture contains significant amounts of molybdenum.\n\nTc, half-life 211k years, is produced at a yield of about 6% per fission; see also the main fission products page.\n\nPlenty of both stable ruthenium and radioactive ruthenium-103 is formed by the fission process. The ruthenium in PUREX raffinate can become oxidized to form ruthenium tetroxide which forms a purple vapour above the surface of the aqueous liquor. The ruthenium tetroxide is very similar to osmium tetroxide, the ruthenium compound is a stronger oxidant which enables it to form deposits by reacting with other substances. In this way the ruthenium in a reprocessing plant is very mobile and can be found in odd places. Also at Chernobyl during the fire the ruthenium became volatile and behaved differently from many of the other metallic fission products. Some of the particles which were emitted by the fire were very rich in ruthenium.\n\nIn addition the ruthenium in PUREX raffinate forms a large number of nitrosyl complexes which makes the chemistry of the ruthenium very complex. The ligand exchange rate at ruthenium and rhodium tends to be long, hence it can take a long time for a ruthenium or rhodium compound to react.\n\nIt has been suggested that the ruthenium and palladium in PUREX raffinate should be used as a source of the metals.\n\nWhile less rhodium than ruthenium and palladium is formed (around 3.6% yield), the mixture of fission products still contains a significant amount of this metal. Due to the high prices of ruthenium, rhodium and palladium some work has been done on the separation of these metals to enable them to be used at a later date. Because of the possibility of the metals being contaminated by radioactive isotopes, metals are not suitable for making consumer products such as jewellery but this source of the metals could be used for catalysts in industrial plants such as petrochemical plants.\n\nPotential Applications of Fission Platinoids in Industry, Zdenek Kolarik, \"Platinum Metals Review\", 2005, 49, April (2).\n\nA dire example of people being exposed to radiation from contaminated jewellery occurred in the United States where it is thought that the gold seeds which were used to contain radon were recycled into jewellery. The gold did contain radioactive decay products of Rn..\n\nA great deal of palladium forms during the fission process. In nuclear reprocessing, not all of the fission palladium dissolves; also some palladium that dissolves at first comes out of solution later. Palladium-rich dissolver fines (particles) are often removed as they interfere with the solvent extraction process by stabilising the third phase.\n\nThe fission palladium can separate during the process in which the PUREX raffinate is combined with glass and heated to form the final high level waste form. The palladium forms an alloy with the fission tellurium. This alloy can separate from the glass.\n\nTellurium-128 and -130 are essentially stable. They only decay by double beta decay, with half lives >10 years. They constitute the major fraction of natural occurring tellurium at 32 and 34% respectively.\nTellurium-132 and its daughter I are important in the first few days after a criticality. It was responsible for a large fraction of the dose inflicted on workers at Chernobyl in the first week.\n\nThe isobar forming Te/I is: Tin-132 (half-life 40 s) decaying to antimony-132 (half-life 2.8 minutes) decaying to tellurium-132 (half-life 3.2 days) decaying to iodine-132 (half-life 2.3 hours) which decays to stable xenon-132.\n\nThe creation of tellurium-126 is delayed by the long half-life (230 k years) of tin-126.\n\nI, with a half-life of 8 days, is a hazard from nuclear fallout because iodine concentrates in the thyroid gland. See also Radiation effects from Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster#Iodine-131 and\nDownwinders#Nevada.\n\nIn common with Sr, I is used for the treatment of cancer. A small dose of I can be used in a thyroid function test while a large dose can be used to destroy the thyroid cancer. This treatment will also normally seek out and destroy any secondary tumor which arose from a thyroid cancer. Much of the energy from the beta emission from the I will be absorbed in the thyroid, while the gamma rays are likely to be able to escape from the thyroid to irradiate other parts of the body.\n\nLarge amounts of I was released during an experiment named the Green Run in which fuel which had only been allowed to cool for a short time after irradiation was reprocessed in a plant which had no iodine scrubber in operation.\n\nI, with a half-life almost a billion times as long, is a long-lived fission product.\n\nI is stable, the only one of the isotopes of iodine that is nonradioactive. It makes up only about of the iodine in spent fuel, with I-129 about .\n\nIn reactor fuel, the fission product xenon tends to migrate to form bubbles in the fuel. As caesium 133, 135, and 137 are formed by the beta particle decay of the corresponding xenon isotopes, this causes the caesium to become physically separated from the bulk of the uranium oxide fuel.\n\nBecause Xe is a potent nuclear poison with a large cross section for neutron absorption, the buildup of Xe in the fuel inside a power reactor can lower the reactivity greatly. If a power reactor is shut down or left running at a low power level, then large amounts of Xe can build up through decay of I. When the reactor is restarted or the low power level is increased significantly, Xe will be quickly consumed through neutron capture reactions and the reactivity of the core will increase. Under some circumstances, control systems may not be able to respond quickly enough to manage an abrupt reactivity increase as the built-up Xe burns off. It is thought that xenon poisoning was one of the factors which led to the power surge which damaged the Chernobyl reactor core.\n\nCaesium-137 with a half-life of 30 years is the main medium-lived fission product, along with Sr-90.\nCs-137 is the primary source of penetrating gamma radiation from spent fuel until 300 years or more after discharge.\nIt is the most significant radioisotope left in the area around Chernobyl.\n\nCaesium-134 is found in spent nuclear fuel but is not produced by nuclear weapon explosions, as it is only formed by neutron capture on stable Cs-133, which is only produced by beta decay of Xe-133 with a half-life of 3 days. Cs-134 has a half-life of 2 years and may be a major source of gamma radiation in the first few years after discharge.\n\nCaesium-135 is a long-lived fission product with much weaker radioactivity. Neutron capture inside the reactor diverts much of the xenon-135 that would otherwise decay to Cs-135.\n\nA lot of barium is formed by the fission process, a short lived barium isotope was confused with radium by some early workers. They were bombarding uranium with neutrons in an attempt to form a new element. But instead they caused fission which generated a large amount of radioactivity in the target. Because the chemistry of barium and radium the two elements could be coseparated by for instance a precipitation with sulfate anions. Because of this similarity of their chemistry the early workers thought that the very radioactive fraction which was separated into the \"radium\" fraction contained a new isotope of radium. Some of this early work was done by Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassmann.\n\nA great deal of the lighter lanthanides (lanthanum, cerium, neodymium, and samarium) are formed as fission products. In Africa at Oklo where the natural nuclear fission reactor operated millions of years ago the isotopic mixture of neodymium is not the same as 'normal' neodymium, it has an isotope pattern very similar to the neodymium formed by fission.\n\nIn the aftermath of criticality accidents the level of La is often used to determine the fission yield (in terms of the number of nuclei which underwent fission).\n\nSamarium-149 is the second most important neutron poison in nuclear reactor physics. Samarium-151, produced at lower yields, is the third most abundant medium-lived fission product but emits only weak beta radiation. Both have high neutron absorption cross-sections, so that much of them produced in a reactor are later destroyed there by neutron absorption.\n\n"}
{"id": "23391020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23391020", "title": "Fusion Energy Foundation", "text": "Fusion Energy Foundation\n\nFusion Energy Foundation (FEF) was an American non-profit think tank co-founded by Lyndon LaRouche in 1974 in New York. It promoted the construction of nuclear power plants, research into fusion power and beam weapons and other causes. The FEF was called fusion's greatest private supporter. It was praised by scientists like John Clarke, who said that the fusion community owed it a \"debt of gratitude\". By 1980, its main publication, \"Fusion\", claimed 80,000 subscribers.\n\nThe FEF included notable scientists and others on its boards, along with LaRouche movement insiders in management positions. It published a popular magazine, \"Fusion\", and a more technical journal as well as books and pamphlets. It conducted seminars and its members testified at legislative hearings. It was known for soliciting subscriptions to their magazines in U.S. airports, where its confrontational methods resulted in conflicts with celebrities and the general public.\n\nThe FEF has been described by many writers as a \"front\" for the U.S. Labor Party and the LaRouche movement. By the mid-1980s, the FEF was being accused of fraudulent fundraising on behalf of other LaRouche entities. Federal prosecutors forced it into bankruptcy in 1986 to collect contempt of court fines, a decision that was later overturned when a federal bankruptcy court found that the government had acted \"in bad faith\". Key personnel were convicted in 1988.\n\nAccording to an article in \"The Nation\", the Fusion Energy Foundation had physicists, corporate executives, and government planners on its board of advisors, many unaware of the foundations connection to the U.S. Labor Party, while the board of directors was filled with LaRouche movement regulars and some party outsiders. A 1983 report published by The Heritage Foundation said that the foundation briefly gained the confidence of respected scientists who lent their reputations to it but it warned that they risked their reputations by doing so.\n\nLyndon LaRouche was a co-founder and one of the three members of the foundation's board of directors. Steven Bardwell, a nuclear physicist, was another director. The Executive Director was Morris Levitt in the 1970s and Paul Gallagher in the 1980s. Michael Gelber was the Central New York regional representative. Dennis Speed was the regional coordinator for Boston and Harley Schlanger was the southern regional coordinator. Uwe Parpart Henke was the director of research. Jon Gilbertson was the director of nuclear engineering. Marsha Freeman was a representative of the FEF's International Press Service. Charles B. Stevens, a chemical engineer, authored scores of articles on fusion energy research and development for both the earlier publication,The Fusion Energy Foundation Newsletter, and its successor, Fusion.\n\nEric Lerner was director of physics in 1977. Other notable scientists who wrote for FEF publications and lectured under its auspices include Friedwardt Winterberg, Krafft Arnold Ehricke, and Winston H. Bostick. Melvin B. Gottlieb received an award from the FEF. Adolf Busemann also received an award at a special dinner.\n\nIn 1977, Executive Director Morris Levitt asserted that nuclear fusion power plants could be built by 1990 if the U.S. spent $50 to $100 billion on research. The same year he announced that there would be no United States in the 21st century if President Jimmy Carter's ban on building breeder reactors was maintained. The director of the fusion power program at Argonne National Laboratory, Charles Baker, said in 1983 that the FEF was \"overstating\" the prospect of practical fusion power in the near future. \"The judgment of the vast majority of the people actually working in fusion believe it will take substantially longer\" than the few years predicted by the FEF, according to Baker.\n\nBy 1980, the Fusion Energy Foundation had close contacts with fusion researchers. They became a conduit for information between researchers who were sequestered in secret research. Even the head of fusion research for the Federal Government cooperated with the foundation. It was praised by scientists like John Clarke, who said that the fusion community owed it a \"debt of gratitude\". However the politicization of the foundation's journals and the LaRouche views printed in them repelled the scientists involved, according to \"The Nation\".\n\nThe FEF received publicity in 1981 when it published a book explaining how to build a hydrogen bomb written by University of Nevada, Reno, professor Friedwardt Winterberg. The publication came two years after a magazine, \"The Progressive\", had tried to print similar information but was prevented by an injunction that became the \"United States v. The Progressive\". The government dropped the case after the information was published by the FEF. The author of the original article later learned that a diagram by Uwe Papert published in 1976 in a LaRouche publication contained two important details of the weapon's design that he had been wrong about.\n\nThe colonization of Mars is a major proposal of the LaRouche movement. Friedwardt Winterberg described how rocket engines incorporating fusion micro-explosions could provide enough acceleration to convey a large mass in a reasonable amount of time, a concept derived from Project Daedalus.\n\nIn 1979 the Fusion Energy Foundation created the Independent Commission of Inquiry to investigate the accident at the Three Mile Island nuclear power plant. The commission's members included Morris Levitt, Jon Gilbertson, Charles Bonilia. The commission determined that the accident must have been caused by sabotage because no other explanation was possible. According to Gallagher, \"New evidence is accumulating that sabotage very likely occurred\". According to the \"Herald\" newspaper of Titusville, Pennsylvania, when asked by reporters for evidence Gilbertson said he had none.\n\nAccording to \"Fusion\", two members of the FEF went to the Soviet Union to attend conference on \"laser interaction\" in December 1978.\n\nIn 1982 and 1983, members of the LaRouche movement met repeatedly with the director of defense programs for the National Security Council, Ray Pollock, while he was developing the basis for Ronald Reagan's \"Star Wars\" program, officially called the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI). Pollock eventually said in the National Security Council (NSC) that LaRouche is \"a frightening kind of fellow\". The FEF held a seminar on beam weapons in October 1983, at the Dirksen Senate Office Building. According to the American Physical Society, FEF members disrupted a 1986 a conference on SDI to which they were not invited, and only stopped after being threatened with police action.\n\nAfter Ronald Reagan announced SDI the LaRouche movement made claims for having been the originators of the proposal, which reportedly \"concerned\" some people in the administration and in Congress, but no correction was made by them. The FEF lobbied state legislatures and testified before congressional hearings on behalf of beam weapons. Steven Bardwell resigned from the board of advisors in early 1984, reportedly because of money questions and a belief that the organization was losing its independence by becoming too solicitous of the Reagan administration in general, and in particular the Central Intelligence Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency, and the NSC.\n\nAs with other LaRouche entities, representatives of the Fusion Energy Foundation gave testimony to a number of congressional hearings. In addition to addressing committees on energy matters, FEF representatives, including Eric Lerner, also testified on matters such as the nomination of Cyrus Vance for Secretary of State.\n\nThe FEF campaigned on behalf of Arthur Rudolph, a NASA rocket scientist who was forced to leave the U.S. in 1982 following an investigation into his role in the Mittelwerk rocket factory in Nazi Germany.\n\nPsychiatrist Ned Rosinsky spoke as a representative of the FEF at a Wisconsin state legislative hearing on criminal penalties for drug possession in 1977. He testified that \"marijuana is a medically dangerous drug until proved otherwise\", citing studies showing brain damage and a reduction in white blood cells caused by the habitual use of cannabis.\n\nUnder the auspices of Pakdee Tanapura, a wealthy Thai landowner, the FEF and EIR held a seminar in 1983 on the proposed construction of the Kra Canal across Thailand. Their plan favored the use of nuclear explosions to speed excavation. A second seminar was held in 1984, and in 1986 the FEF published a report by U.H. Von Papart on the feasibility and financing for the project.\n\n\nThe FEF has been described by many writers as a \"front\" for the U.S. Labor Party and the LaRouche movement, In a \"National Review\" article published in 1979, former member Gregory Rose said that the primary purpose of the Fusion Energy Foundation was raising money. Milton Copulous, director of energy studies for the Heritage Foundation, called the FEF \"a front the USLP uses to win the confidence of unsuspecting businessmen\". In 1981, the FEF reported $3.5 million of revenue.\n\nAccording to a representative in Toronto, Richard Sanders, FEF contributions gathered in Canada were sent to the United States to support the presidential campaigns of Lyndon LaRouche. In 1983, an FEF spokesperson said that there was no financial link between the foundation and LaRouche's campaigns. Although the FEF denied any financial connection to LaRouche's U.S. Labor Party, the two organizations reportedly shared offices in New York City. According to an interview with a former member presented as evidence in \"\" in 1984:\nMoney from the . . . profit-making organizations went into political campaigns and was not correctly reported. Money from the tax-exempt [FEF] was given to the political campaign, unbeknownst to the people who made the contributions. . . . Someone would contribute to the [FEF] because they believed in nuclear power and their contribution would turn up as a contribution for . . . [LaRouche's] presidential campaign.\n\nBarbara Mikulski filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission asserting that the FEF was improperly raising funds for a LaRouche-affiliated candidate, Debra Freeman, in a 1982 congressional campaign. The FEF replied that the fundraising was done under contract to the Caucus Distributors, Inc. (CDI), another LaRouche enterprise.\n\nWhen FEF director Steven Bardwell resigned in 1984, he complained that funds raised by the FEF through subscriptions were being diverted to other LaRouche entities. According to Bardwell, LaRouche said that Bardwell's sense of obligation to subscribers was \"misplaced\", and that \"whether or not they knew it, they had contributed money to support Lyndon LaRouche and his ideas\". LaRouche reportedly also said that the most important expenditures were for his personal security, and other expenses had a lower priority.\n\nIn September 1985, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) withdrew the FEF's status as a tax-deductible non-profit, Section 501(c)(3), which it had had since 1978. The stated reason was that it had failed to file a tax return in the prior two years. In October 1986, New York Attorney General Robert Abrams sued to dissolve the FEF, charging that it fraudulently solicited donations as tax-deductible after their exemption had been withdrawn, and for failure to file required forms. Paul Gallagher, described the suit as \"part of an escalating witch hunt against FEF board member Lyndon LaRouche.\" Two weeks later, the IRS restored the FEF's tax exempt status, saying it had made an error though privacy rules prevented further elaboration.\n\nSubscribers to \"Fusion\" complained that their credit cards were being billed for unauthorized charges. In one example a man who had subscribed to \"Fusion\" found that he had been billed for $1000, for which he received promissory notes in the mail. Prosecutors charged that the FEF and other LaRouche related groups had made improper charges to the credit cards of about 1,000 people.\n\nFundraisers also solicited larger sums. A 71-year-old California woman loaned the FEF $100,000 after making smaller loans to other LaRouche-related entities. FEF fundraisers refused to take a check and drove her to the bank so she could wire the money directly. The FEF made no interest or principal payments on the loans. After she sued the FEF for repayment they settled, acknowledged the loans, and agreed to a schedule of payments. They stopped making payments after sending a few checks, one of which bounced. She filed suit in Virginia in an attempt to attach FEF assets there.\nIn a widely reported case, a 79-year-old retired steel executive gave or loaned a total of $2.6 million over a 14 months period in amounts ranging from $250 to $350,000, according to a lawsuit. He said he was not a supporter of LaRouche political campaigns, and that he gave the money, \"Because I got so many telephone calls requesting donations\". He said \"I'm mad at myself now\" for having turned over the money, most of which went to the FEF. When he told the fundraisers that he only wanted to give money to his family in the future, he was reportedly told that gifts to the LaRouche movement \"would be of greater benefit\" to the family because LaRouche's supporters \"were changing the world situation\".<ref name=\"NYT4/27/86\"></ref> The FEF gave the donor a plaque which said, \"Benjamin Franklin Award Honoring Special Contributions to the Future of Science\". In a \"Nightline\" interview, LaRouche called him \"a person who's been associated with us as a supporter for a long time.\" LaRouche's treasurer, Edward Spannaus, said the \"drug lobby\" was responsible for accusations that the LaRouche movement had encouraged supporters to turn over their savings.\n\nDuring a 1986 Virginia state investigation, an undercover policeman purchased subscriptions to \"Fusion\" and another LaRouche movement publication, \"Executive Intelligence Review\", at Washington National Airport. He then received 22 \"abusive and demanding\" telephone calls asking for loans or donations. He was told the money was needed to fight AIDS and to keep LaRouche out of jail.<ref name=\"Roderick10/14/86\"></ref> When he agreed to make a loan he received a letter of acknowledgement and an invitation to tour the LaRouche headquarters in Leesburg, Virginia.\n\nNot all supporters contributed due to pressure. An Oklahoman oilman subscribed to \"Fusion\" and liked LaRouche's views on nuclear power. He donated thousands of dollars as well as buying a $900,000 estate for LaRouche's use, charging rent to cover the mortgage.\n\nSupporters of the Fusion Energy Foundation became well known for their aggressive fundraising in U.S. airports in the late 1970s and early 1980s, along with Hare Krishnas and Moonies. They set up tables to sell publications from the FEF and other LaRouche organizations and displayed provocatively captioned, hand-lettered posters. The FEF members would shout slogans to passers-by to get attention, and sometimes accused those who disagreed with them of being homosexuals. One writer called them the \"most obnoxious of the groups...infesting the airports.\" An article in \"The Boston Globe\" called them \"the kooks at the airport\" who solicited money using posters often denouncing Jane Fonda, a target of the LaRouche movement because of her support for environmental causes.\n\nThe FEF had slogans and bumper stickers with texts like:\n\nIn 1981, Fonda's brother, actor Peter Fonda was enraged by a sign in Denver's Stapleton Airport that said, \"Feed Jane Fonda to the Whales.\" He cut up the sign with his pocketknife. The FEF members pressed charges for destruction of property leading Fonda to miss his flight, though he was allowed to leave without posting bond. The case was dropped when the FEF members failed to appear on the court date.\n\nIn 1982, Ellen Kaplan, an FEF member raising money in the Newark Airport, spotted former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and his wife Nancy. Kissinger was flying to Boston for a heart operation. Kaplan went up to Kissinger and asked him why he had \"prolonged the war in Vietnam\", and then, \"Mr. Kissinger, do you sleep with young boys at the Carlyle Hotel?\" At that point Nancy Kissinger grabbed Kaplan by the throat and asked, \"Do you want to get slugged?\" Kaplan later explained that she was a \"longtime opponent\" of Kissinger, and that she \"wanted to confront the man with how low he is.\" She pressed charges and Dennis Speed, an FEF coordinator, said they would make Kissinger into \"a laughingstock\". The Newark municipal judge acquitted Mrs. Kissinger, saying that she had exhibited \"a reasonable spontaneous, somewhat human reaction\" and that there was no injury.\n\nIn 1977, the Fusion Energy Foundation received a temporary injunction to prevent the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) from harassing it or interfering with its activities. The suit claimed that the FBI Director, Clarence M. Kelley, had personally ordered FBI agents to disrupt FEF conferences and dissuade scientists from participating. The injunction also included U.S. Attorney General Griffin Bell and Secretary of Energy James R. Schlesinger.\n\nIn 1986, the FEF was ordered by a state court to stop raising funds in California due to complaints. In a separate action the same year, the FEF, along with other LaRouche entities, was named in a lawsuit charging violations of the Federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) that was filed in San Francisco.<ref name=\"Roderick10/19/86\"></ref> In an unusual move, the assets of the FEF and related entities were seized before the suit was unsealed, because the plaintiff's lawyer convinced the judge that the entities would hide their assets. In 1987, the FEF and five other LaRouche entities were prohibited from operating in Virginia. In 1988, the FEF was sued by the California Attorney General's office. The suit alleged that FEF fundraisers had flown down from Washington to take the 79-year old Laguna Hills resident to her bankbox where they got from her stock certificates worth $104,452, described by her accountant as the woman's life savings. In their place was a receipt signed by Paul Gallagher, Executive Director of the FEF. LaRouche said the charges were \"totally frivolous\" and the result of corruption in the Attorney General's office.\n\nDuring a federal grand jury investigation into fundraising practices in 1985, the FEF and other LaRouche entities were given subpoenas requiring that they turn over documents and provide a keeper of records to testify. They failed to surrender the documents and the keepers of records they sent were appointed the day before. When ordered to give the home address of FEF Executive Director Gallagher, the address turned out to be a vacant lot. Five months after the subpoenas were served, and after several hearings on the matter, U.S. District Judge A. David Mazzone found the FEF in contempt of court and levied a fine of $10,000 per day to enforce the subpoena starting in March 1986. Similar fines were placed on other LaRouche organizations, totalling $45,000 per day. The FEF and the other LaRouche entities appealed the fines repeatedly, and were denied each time. They appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, which refused to review the lower court decision.\n\nIn October 1986, hundreds of federal and state law enforcement conducted a coordinated raid on the offices of LaRouche enterprises, including those of the FEF, and seized the documents that had been subpoenaed in 1985. The FEF and other entities argued in court that the search warrants had been improperly executed, and that documents were taken in violation of their Fourth Amendment rights. The Court of Appeals denied their appeal.\n\nSix months later, in April 1987, the federal prosecutors obtained an unusual involuntary bankruptcy procedure against the FEF and other groups in order to settle the contempt of court fines which had grown to $21.4 million. The government claimed that the LaRouche groups were selling properties in order to hide the cash. The petition was granted by Judge Martin V.B. Bostetter and the federal government seized the property of the FEF and other groups. Reportedly, they only recovered $86,000 in assets. In October 1989, the FEF's bankruptcy petition was reviewed by Judge Bostetter who dismissed it, effectively reversing his April 1987 ruling. He noted that two of the entities, including FEF, were nonprofit fund-raisers and therefore ineligible for involuntary bankruptcy actions. He found that the government's actions and representations in obtaining the bankruptcy had the effect of misleading the court as to the status of the organization.\n\nMembers of the scientific and fusion community noted the closing of the FEF publications. A full page advertisement protesting the closures, published in \"IEEE Spectrum\", was signed by people associated with the fusion and SDI fields, including 22 employees of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.\n\nThe \"International Journal of Fusion Energy\" was published intermittently from March 1977 to October 1985, putting out at least 11 issues. For some time Robert James Moon acted as editor-in-chief.\n\nMorris Levitt was the editor-in-chief as of 1979, but by the mid-1980s the job was taken over by Steven Bardwell, and by 1986 it was Carol White. Marjorie Mazel Hecht was the managing editor. By 1980, it claimed 80,000 subscribers.\n\n\"21st Century Science and Technology\" is a quarterly magazine established in 1988 following the federal government's closing down of its predecessor \"Fusion Magazine\" (1977 to 1987). It has the same editor and material as \"Fusion\". The last hard copy issue of the magazine published was the Winter 2005-2006 issue. Subsequent issues are available in electronic PDF format only. The magazine deals with a variety of issues, including criticism of claims of anthropogenic global warming, promotion of the use of DDT and support for an alternative to the standard atomic theory, based on the \"Moon model\" of Robert James Moon. Notable writers include: J. Gordon Edwards, Zbigniew Jaworowski and Paul Marmet. According to \"Science\" and other sources, it is published by supporters of Lyndon LaRouche.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27731272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27731272", "title": "Global storm activity of 2008", "text": "Global storm activity of 2008\n\nA storm (from Proto-Germanic \"*sturmaz\" \"noise, tumult\") is any disturbed state of an astronomical body's atmosphere, especially affecting its surface, and strongly implying severe weather. It may be marked by strong wind, thunder and lightning (a thunderstorm), heavy precipitation, such as ice (ice storm), or wind transporting some substance through the atmosphere (as in a dust storm, snowstorm, hailstorm, etc.).\n\nStorms are created when a centre of low pressure develops, with a system of high pressure surrounding it. This combination of opposing forces can create winds and result in the formation of storm clouds, such as the cumulonimbus. Small, localized areas of low pressure can form from hot air rising off hot ground, resulting in smaller meteorological disturbances such as dust devils and whirlwinds.\n\nA series of moderate to intense low pressure systems affected most of eastern North America particularly the Canadian Maritimes with repeated heavy snow, mixed precipitation, rain and wind. The initial storm dumped over a foot of snow over parts of Newfoundland and Labrador on December 30 while a second storm gave a foot of snow over Prince Edward Island and several inches of snow across New Brunswick and portions of New England and Ontario on December 30–31 while Nova Scotia received a mix of snow, rain and ice pellets. Several New Year's Eve festivities including Charlottetown's main event as well as the fireworks show in St. John's were cancelled due to weather conditions.\n\nAs part of a third storm, a burst of snow, some of it lake enhanced, affected The Great Lakes from mid-afternoon New Year's Eve until mid-afternoon New Year's Day. Particularly hit hard were the cities of Chicago, Detroit, and Cleveland. 3 to of snow fell in many areas, with many parts of Michigan seeing over a foot of snow, including Capac, Michigan, which reported of snow. 36,000 people lost power in southeastern Michigan, and 10,000 lost power in Northeast Ohio. Detroit Metropolitan Airport and Chicago-O'Hare International Airport both reported numerous delays and 145 flights were canceled at O'Hare alone. There were no serious injuries or fatalities reported, but many spinouts and other accidents occurred.\n\nA major winter storm event took place across portions of central Europe including Bulgaria, Ukraine, Romania and southwestern Russia as well as areas near the Black Sea. The storm was responsible for the sinking of the \"M/S\" Vanessa, a Bulgarian cargo ship on the Kerch Strait, killing at least 4 sailors. Up to of snow fell across portions Bulgaria and Romania severely disrupting transportation including the closure of Bucharest's two main airports as well several ports around the Black Sea were also shut down. Electricity was also cut in about 300 towns and villages in Bulgaria and deliveries of food and water were also delayed.\n\nHeavy snow fell in the Sierra Nevada and Cascade mountains from three storms. The heaviest snow occurred in the mountains south of Lake Tahoe, with Kirkwood Mountain Resort receiving of snow. Sierra-at-Tahoe and Heavenly Ski Resort both received up to of snow. Snow depths of at least were widely reported. The snow was combined with wind gusts exceeding , creating blizzard and white-out conditions in the Sierra Nevada. The highest reported wind gust was on Ward Mountain. Widespread reports of 3–6 inches of rain were received, and at the height of the storm approximately 2 million people were without power in California. About 3,000 people in Orange County, California were forced to evacuate their homes because of mudslide concerns in areas that had recently been burned in wildfires. These storms continued through the Intermountain West and into the Rocky Mountains. Heavy snow of 2–4 feet occurred in the San Juan Mountains of Colorado, with a maximum of reported at the Silverton Mountain Resort. Six snowmobilers who were stranded by the storm in southern Colorado found shelter in a cabin. However, 3 people were still missing; one hiker in the San Bernardino Mountains in southern California, and two skiers in Colorado near Wolf Creek Pass. At least three people were confirmed killed in the storm. A woman died when she drove her car across a flooded road in Chino, California, one person was killed by a falling branch in Sacramento, and person was killed by a falling tree in Central Point, Oregon. Two bodies discovered in Sacramento near a homeless camp were also being investigated as possibly weather-related. In Fernley, Nevada an irrigation ditch burst and flooded 290 homes with up to of water; the cold weather then caused the water to freeze. In southeastern Utah, nine people were killed and 20 injured after a charter bus returning from a ski trip in Telluride, Colorado ran off the road north of Mexican Hat. However, it was unknown if slick roads were the primary cause of the crash.\n\nA major snowstorm that dropped the heaviest snow in more than a decade in northern Iran killed at least 21 people and injured at least 88, with some people freezing to death, others dying in avalanches, and some dying after their cars overturned on snow-covered roads. Anywhere from of snow were recorded in Tehran, while about of snow fell in the Caspian Sea town of Bandar-e Anzali in Gīlān Province in northwestern Iran, usually a mild, damp place in winter. \"Heavy\" sea-effect snow also fell in Baku, Azerbaijan.\n\nA Nor'easter developed along the Mid-atlantic coast, and moved northward. It affected the northeastern United States, eastern Quebec and the Canadian Maritimes with heavy snow, and high winds along the coast. Several areas across Maine, New Brunswick received snow amounts in excess of with as much as locally across the Gaspe region.\n\nA low pressure system moving northward up the East Coast caused snow and rain to overspread the Mid-Atlantic region on January 17 and 18. Many spots started off as snow, with a gradual changeover to sleet, freezing rain and then finally rain as the storm slowed down. The greatest concern for accumulating ice was in western North Carolina, while the greatest accumulations of snow was expected in the Shenandoah Valley. Lighter accumulations of snow were expected along and west of I-95 in the Baltimore-Washington metro area, making for a difficult commute that afternoon. Winter storm watches and warnings extended from northern Georgia into southern Pennsylvania.\n\nThe wintry mix continued to spread northward overnight and into Friday. While New York and Boston saw mainly rain, accumulating snow occurred through the upper Delaware Valley and into the Hudson River Valley. The heaviest snow on Friday was expected for northern New Hampshire into Maine.\n\nA rapid-fire series of major winter storms affected the western United States over the last week of January. The storms focused on California at first, bringing heavy rain and snow to the state. Up to of snow fell in the Sierra Nevada early on, with 2–5 inches of rain falling in the lowlands of California and up to in the foothills. The heaviest rains occurred around Santa Barbara. Many areas of southern California received more rain during these storms than what they saw the entire previous water year. Heavy snow periodically closed Interstate 5 over the Grapevine (north of Los Angeles) due to the snow, as well as jackknifed tractor trailers, which stranded about 300 motorists for several hours. Heavy snow pounded all of the mountains of California, and 3 skiers were killed by avalanches on January 24 in the San Gabriel Mountains, where locally of snow fell in the storm. Several mudslides and flash floods were reported in Orange County and in Los Angeles, while several residents were forced to be evacuated from their homes in Marin County. A Metrolink commuter train in Los Angeles hit mud and rocks that partially covered the tracks, causing it to be stranded along with its hundreds of passengers for over 2 hours before another train pulled it out from the debris. Wind gusts of 40–50 mph also affected areas of southern California. Combined with the heavy wind and rain in the region, widespread though spotty power cuts were reported.\n\nHeavy snow also spread into the Inland Empire of the Pacific Northwest. The Spokane, Washington and Coeur d'Alene, Idaho areas saw two powerful storms during this time period, with local amounts of more than in a storm from the 26th–27th, with in Spokane and up to in Eugene, Oregon. This storm caused numerous roofs to collapse near Coeur d'Alene. Another storm from late on the 30th to the 31st dropping up to of snow in Pullman, Washington and Moscow, Idaho. Lewiston, Idaho recorded inches, Pendleton, Oregon , and Spokane an additional . Numerous roads throughout the Spokane Valley, the Palouse, and the surrounding mountains were closed at various times during the storms. Several inches of snow even fell in Seattle and down to the Oregon coast (a very rare event). Local amounts of over of snow fell in the Cascades. Interstate 90 over Snoqualmie Pass, which had seen snowfall approaching , was hit by two avalanches in 3 days, the second of which buried 2 cars.\n\nThe mountains of Utah and Colorado also saw heavy snow of 2–4 feet during this time. The spate of late-month storms pushed Alta, Utah to a monthly total of of snow, tying its January record first set in 1996.\n\nA major snowfall event affected portions of the Middle East including Israel, Jordan, Syria and Lebanon. One of the areas mostly affected was Jerusalem where schools (including the Hebrew University of Jerusalem), stores and transportation were shut down after 5 to of snow fell. The main highway between Tel Aviv and Jerusalem was also shortly closed because of the snow. The weather event had topped local headlines eclipsing a critical government report related to the 2006 Lebanon War and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert.\n\nSeveral days of heavy wet snow, frigid temperatures and ice struck several regions of central China during the country's peak Lunar New Year Travel Season. At least 107 people were killed by the storm which stranded several thousands of people, canceled numerous flights and damaged or destroyed several homes, power lines and crops which had raised concerns for food and water shortage a. Among the fatalities, 11 were killed by a bus accident in Anhui with flipped into a ditch on January 21.\n\nThe provinces of Hubei, Henan, Shandong, Jiangsu and Anhui were the hardest hit areas where some areas received their worst snow storm in 50 years. Snow persisted throughout the week with bitterly cold temperatures accompanying it. Tens of thousands of people were left stranded at several trains stations across southern China including Guangzhou Several main highways which also disrupted transportation of goods across several areas of the country.\n\nWidespread power cuts were also reported and at one point, 17 of the 31 provinces had to endured reduced power supplies. It was estimated that about 827 000 people were evacuated across 14 provinces. The country's civil affairs ministry estimated that the severe weather affected 67 million people and that the costs were estimated at about 7.8 billion British pounds, 15.8 billion US Dollars or 111 billion Chinese yuan.\n\nA series of low pressure systems affected the eastern portion of North America with various types of weather. On January 27, a low pressure system which developed just off Cape Cod, Massachusetts brought a major ice storm for portions of the Canadian Maritimes on January 28 after dumping a few inches of snow across coastal sections of Massachusetts and Maine, and up to of snow on Cape Cod. Particularly hard hit was Prince Edward Island where about one-third of the island lost power while numerous power poles and lines were downed due to the weight of the ice. Canadian Defense Minister Peter MacKay offered the province help with the services of the Canadian Armed Forces.\n\nMeanwhile, another powerful storm moved across much of the continent, bringing first blizzard conditions and frigid temperatures from Alberta to Manitoba and down towards the Dakotas where temperatures dropped locally 40 degrees below zero with much colder windchills. While approaching the eastern half of the continent, it intensified further and brought widespread damage wind some of them from thunderstorms. Winds exceeded locally as much as 120 km/h in some areas while blowing snow shut down many roads near the shorelines of Georgian Bay and Lake Huron. The cold front associated with the depression produced very rapid temperature drops in a short period from Iowa to southern Ontario. The storm killed at least two in Indiana due to an EF2 tornado.\n\nA third strong storm developed across the Texas Panhandle on January 31 and affected much of the Midwest and East with heavy snows from Northern Oklahoma to Quebec with significant ice across the Appalachians and the Ohio Valley and severe weather from southern Texas to the Middle Atlantic States. It brought massive amounts of snow to the Midwest with some isolated reports of of snow. Chicago saw its largest snowstorm this season as it dropped over ten inches (203 mm) of snow in downtown, building up traffic delays. Across Ontario and Quebec it dumped about 8 inches of snow (20 cm) in Toronto, in Ottawa, Gatineau and Quebec City and in Montreal with higher amounts as much as in the mountains north of Quebec City. It also brought severe weather to the deep south bringing several inches of rain. The storm also produced heavy sleet and freezing rain in much of Pennsylvania and New York. The highest reported amount of ice accumulation was at State College, Pennsylvania, where of ice fell, coupled with moderate wind gusts, caused downed trees and powerlines there, and in much of the Northeast United States. The ice then moved into the Canadian Maritimes for several hours. While it disrupted air travel at various major airports along the path, the storm was responsible for at least 15 deaths across three states and one Canadian province including one in Ontario, four in New York, six in Illinois, three in Texas and one in Oklahoma.\n\nA major winter storm affected the Central United States and southern Ontario from February 5 into February 6. The storm stretched from Wisconsin all the way south into Mississippi. Across eastern Iowa, southern Wisconsin, northern Illinois, and lower Michigan, the storm dumped upwards of a foot or more of snow, with locally heavier amounts of in some areas, particularly across southeast Wisconsin. In Ontario, of snow fell in Toronto (with locally heavier amounts) with other areas of Ontario from Windsor to Ottawa receiving up to . Winds of up to and heavy snowfall rates made for blizzard conditions in some areas, making travel nearly impossible. Many places throughout northern Illinois and southern Wisconsin were forced to close on February 6, including schools, colleges, churches, health care centers, government buildings, businesses, and shopping malls. In addition, over 1000 flights were canceled at Chicago-O'Hare International Airport and 100 at Chicago-Midway International Airport while numerous flights were also cancelled at Toronto's Pearson International Airport. In the Milwaukee area, whiteout conditions forced the temporary closure of General Mitchell International Airport, where half of its flights were canceled for the day. In addition, numerous accidents were reported across the area, including one fatality. Several interstates and other roadways were closed throughout Wisconsin due to either whiteout conditions or accidents. The National Guard was brought in to assist over 2000 stranded motorists on a stretch of I-90 between Janesville, WI, and Madison after several semi trailers lost traction and blocked the road.\n\nThe same storm system brought heavy rain across portions of the Ohio Valley, with severe thunderstorms further south. Kentucky, Arkansas, Tennessee, Mississippi, and Alabama all saw tornadoes from mid-afternoon February 5 to the early morning hours of February 6. 33 people were killed in Tennessee, 14 in Arkansas, 7 in Kentucky, and 5 in Alabama. In all, at least 59 people have been killed by the tornadoes, making it the deadliest outbreak since the 1985 United States-Canadian tornado outbreak of 1985, which killed 88 people. In addition, over 100 people have been injured. The storm tore off the roof of a shopping mall in Memphis, trapped college students at Union University in Jackson, Tennessee, ignited a gas fire near Nashville, and demolished warehouses in Southaven, Mississippi, in addition to destroying numerous homes. Over 103 separate tornadoes were reported. Several presidential candidates paused to remember victims during their speeches after the Super Tuesday primaries, with several tornadoes still occurring as they were speaking.\n\nOn February 11, a low pressure system moved out of the U.S. Plain States into the eastern half of the United States and eastern Canada. The low pressure system began to strengthen, and slowly moved east. Snow began to fall in on the northern side of the system as the storm moved off the coast. It all but stalled, and the snow soon turned to ice for most of the affected area. After the ice storm, temperatures warmed to above freezing, and most of the precipitation turned to all rain for all areas other than the far northern fringes of the storm. The rain lasted for several hours in many places, with some areas receiving of rain, which caused minor flooding in low-lying and urban areas. As the primary low pressure system moved away, a smaller low formed, which enhanced rainfall and extended precipitation for several more hours. By early on February 14, the storm had moved away. On the northern side of the system between 10–20 cm of snow fell from Wisconsin to New Brunswick.\n\nA panhandle hook winter storm combined with an Alberta clipper crossed the central United States, spreading rain, ice and heavy snow to parts of the upper Midwest and Northeast as well as eastern Canada from southern Manitoba to the Canadian Maritimes. Portions of Iowa and Manitoba were under blizzard warnings. Areas from northern Ontario to southern Wisconsin were under winter storm warnings while much of Ontario and Quebec were under freezing rain warnings. The ice event may have been blamed for a late-evening incident at the Ottawa International Airport where a Boeing 737 WestJet flight from Calgary slid off an icy runway and ending off into a snowbank. No injuries among the 94 passengers and crew members were reported in the incident.\n\nGenerally between of snow fell across the Midwest and portions of Ontario although locally across Wisconsin amounts approached . The system was also notable for a tornado outbreak across Alabama, Georgia and Florida where dozens of tornadoes touched down injuring at least 30.\n\nHeavy snowfall in Greece cut off access to at least 150 villages and was followed by a major cold snap. Significant power outages and water supply shortages were reported across many areas. Hardest hit areas were the island of Crete and Evia as well as the southern portions of the Peloponnese Peninsula. In Athens, where at least fell, dozens of flights from the Athens Airport were cancelled while most schools throughout the city were shut down. Temperatures fell below minus across northern Greece.\n\nA snow storm affected the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic of the United States from February 21 onward. School closings, car accidents, and airport delays were reported in New York City. The FAA reported delays of up to 9 hours at LaGuardia Airport, and delays averaging 3–5 hours at JFK Airport. In total, almost 1,100 flights were cancelled at New York City's three major airports. In New York City, fell, while in northern New Jersey, up to accumulated. In addition, the speed limit on the New Jersey Turnpike was reduced to , and in Greenwich, Connecticut, southbound lanes of Interstate 95 were closed for a couple hours.\n\nStorm-related traffic accidents led to one death in Connecticut while in Missouri, where ice was the primary form of precipitation, 5 people were killed in accidents.\n\nA weak Alberta clipper intensified over eastern Canada after dumping about 10–17 cm over Ontario and Quebec and several areas of the Northeastern United States. It brought another major winter storm for New Brunswick and eastern Quebec. Gaspé, Quebec received about 55 cm of snow while portions of New Brunswick received 25–30 cm. Strong winds in excess of 100 km/h forced the closure of the Confederation Bridge linking New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island.\n\nA European windstorm passed through Central Europe, causing severe damage in Austria, the Netherlands, Germany, Eastern France, Poland, and the Czech Republic, leaving 16 people dead (8 Germans, 4 Czechs, 2 Austrians, 1 Frenchman and 1 Pole). Windstorm Emma was a severe extratropical cyclone which passed through several mainly Central European countries, most devastatingly on Saturday March 1, 200, killing at least twelve people in Austria, Germany, Poland and the Czech Republic. Wind speeds reached up to in Austria, and up to elsewhere. Major infrastructure disruptions and some injuries were also reported in Belgium, France, Switzerland, and the Netherlands. Many trees were also bought down in SW British Isles as it passed over with winds at about 100 mph, affecting counties in Ireland, Wales and S. Western England. A Lufthansa jet almost crashed attempting to land in crosswinds at Hamburg. and almost crashed while landing in windy conditions near Hamburg.\n\nA storm system attached to a strong front that give very warm temperatures across much of the eastern half of the continent, produced a significant winter storm for portions of Missouri and Arkansas with freezing rain across New York and Ohio. The low is expected to cross New England and give mixed precipitations for most of the Northeast as well as portions of Quebec and Ontario with heavier snow away from the Saint Lawrence River and the Lower Great Lakes.\n\nThe freezing rain affected parts of Ohio where presidential primaries were held but had little or no impact on the overall turnout. In Arkansas, where up to nearly one foot of snow fell locally, several schools were shut down in the western part of the state while other school closures were reported across the Midwest. About 8 to fell in parts of Missouri and Michigan with localized amounts of thirteen inches (330 mm) near the St. Louis area. The winter storm disrupted the schedule of several March Madness Tournament basketball games across the Midwest. Nearly 12 000 customers in Illinois also lost power during the storm.\n\nHeavy snow and local ice pellets and freezing rain fell throughout much Eastern Canada with the heaviest snow from north of the Great Lakes to north of the Saint Lawrence River from Toronto to eastern Quebec. From of snow fell with the highest amounts in the Ottawa area. The blizzard conditions also forced a one-day delay for a ceremony at CFB Trenton in memory of a Canadian soldier who was killed in Afghanistan.\n\nThe snow on March 5 forced the cancellations of over 500 flights at the Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, stranding thousands of travelers. As much as fell in the northeastern corner of Texas, an unusual depth for that region.\n\nThe storm continued northeastward through the Midwest and into the Ohio Valley. Ohio was the hardest-hit state, where near-blizzard conditions were experienced and 8–20 inches of snow fell, while nearby Indiana saw areas of over a foot of snow as well. Arkansas also saw localized totals of 12–18 inches. Snow fell as far south as northern Mississippi, where 5–8 inches fell, and in Tennessee and Kentucky, where localized totals over a foot were reported and Louisville saw its largest storm in a decade. A record fell on Columbus, Ohio during the storm, mainly on the 8th, and 4 people have been killed in traffic accidents caused by the weather so far, with 1 in Ohio, 1 in Tennessee, and 2 in New York. On the 8th, the worst day for much of the Midwest and Ohio Valley, a plane skidded off the runway at Port Columbus International Airport, while near-blizzard conditions closed Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. Schools were closed across the state, delaying numerous high school sporting events (mainly basketball championships), while the University of Cincinnati men's basketball team was forced to delay its game with the University of Connecticut after being unable to catch a flight out of the state. Thousands of people also lost power during the storm.\n\nThe storm also hit hard across portions of Ontario and Quebec during the period dumping from 6 inches to as much as 21 inches of snow (15–52 cm). Strong winds in excess of 60 km/h with reports in excess of 100 km/h and thunder and lightning also accompanied the storm. Snow drifts forced several motorists to abandon their vehicles on some the Quebec major highways particular on Highway 15 and 30 near Montreal and also on a secondary highway near Quebec City.\n\nSeveral inches of rain caused localized flooding along the I-95 corridor in the mid-Atlantic. In Florida, widespread severe weather, including approximately 15 tornadoes, was reported on March 7. One tornado near Lake City killed 2 people.\n\nNewfoundland and Labrador and parts of Atlantic Canada including Nova Scotia were hit by a series of winter storms. Newfoundland and Labrador was particularly hit hard with three consecutive storms with heavy amounts of snow, strong winds, freezing rain. At one point Fogo Island was under a state of emergency after an avalanche caused by one of the storms isolated the area from the rest of the province. Properties and a bridge were damaged by the avalanche. On March 13–14, central parts of the provinces near Gander received as much as 50 centimeters. About 20 centimeters fell on March 16. On March 18, the Avalon Peninsula including St. John's received as much as 40 centimeters of snow and winds reached as high as 141 km/h in Cape Race in the southern part of the Peninsula. Freezing rain and rain later followed the heavy snow across those areas. Transit, banks, government buildings and Memorial University were all shut down while several roads were closed.\n\nA major winter storm hit the eastern portions of Quebec during a two-day period bringing heavy snow and winds gusting in excess of 100 km/h across the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, Bas-Saint-Laurent and Côte-Nord regions creating blizzard conditions. Several roads including Highways 132, 138 and 185 were closed as did Autoroutes 20 and 85. Over 600 people were sheltered at schools and other shelters in Riviere-du-Loup. The roof of a school gymnasium in Maria, Quebec in the Gaspésie region collapsed under the weight of the heavy snow from the storm and previous snowfall and ice during the winter. At least one person was killed during the storm near Forestville\n\nOn April 1, Dust storms hit Astana in Kazakhstan.\n\nA late season winter storm struck parts of eastern South Dakota, eastern North Dakota and northern Minnesota on April 5 – April 7. An area of low pressure formed along a stationary front draped over central Minnesota and moved slowly northeast. Fourteen inches (356 mm) of snow fell in Hoover, South Dakota, and nearly fell in Fargo, North Dakota. The heaviest snow fell in northern Minnesota with a wide swath of 18+ inch amounts reported. Areas near Bemidji recorded , south of Park Rapids recorded , of snow was reported north of Virginia, was reported in Cass Lake and was reported in Babbitt and Chisholm.\n\nA large storm system affected a large portion of the Central United States from April 9 to April 12. The storm produced strong winds to the south of it and dumped heavy snow to the north. Winter Storm watches and warnings were in effect from Colorado to Michigan, and Blizzard Warnings were in effect for parts of South Dakota, Iowa, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan. The hardest hit area was Ouray, Colorado where over fell Some areas across Minnesota received as much as near Askov in Pine County and in Duluth. Up to fell across the eastern Dakotas and western Nebraska.\n\nA series of mid-April winter storms affected much of the Canadian Plains after a below-average snowfall season for most areas. The city of Calgary and most of southern Alberta were hit by a surprising winter storm during the morning hours by a wave of precipitation that was not related to the winter storm the central portions of the continent. About 20–25 cm fell in a few hours bringing down power lines and causing 16 injuries due to motor vehicle accidents. Snow also fell from the Rockies east towards central Saskatchewan. Many areas received over 20 cm with local reports of up to 60 cm shutting down several roads and producing dozens of collisions across several of the major Alberta highways. Accumulated snow even fell in Victoria, British Columbia where it broke a new April single-day record snowfall\n\nA new system across the eastern Prairies dumped heavy amounts of snow from the eastern Dakotas to northwestern Ontario as well as southern Manitoba including Winnipeg from April 24 to April 27. Up to 18 inches of snow (45 cm) fell across the eastern Dakotas with up to in parts of northwestern Ontario. Blizzard conditions during the early morning hours of April 26 shut down parts of the Trans-Canada Highway in southern Manitoba east of Winnipeg where fell\n\nWhile a major tornado outbreak took place across the Central and Southern Plains as well in the lower Mississippi River Valley, the northern fringes of a strong low pressure system delivered a major blizzard across northeastern Wyoming and western South Dakota. The town of Lead, South Dakota received as much as 4½ feet of snow or about 54 inches while several other areas received from of snow during a two-day period. The poor conditions forced the closure of Interstate 90 in the Black Hills region of western South Dakota.\n\nOn May 8, dust storms hit Astana in Kazakhstan.\n21 people had died in a rural Mongolian blizzard. Parts of the Chinese province of Inner Mongolia were also affected.\n\nThe Burmese government said that over 60,000 people are dead or missing and about 1,000,000 are homeless. The American embassy to Burma in the area has estimated that about 100,000 died when Cyclone Nargis hit coastal Myanmar on May 8 and 9, 2008.\n\nFifty-four people, including 14 children, died during a sudden snowstorm in eastern Mongolia, after the days before had been warm with temperatures around 25 degrees Celsius (77 °F). Additionally, around 200,000 head of livestock were lost in Khentii and Sükhbaatar alone. In Dornod, Sükhbaatar and Khentii, several meteorological stations broke down, causing a communication issue with the meteorological institute. Chinggis Khaan International Airport in Ulaanbaatar saw delayed flights.\n\nAbout 52 people and 200,000 head of cattle had died in heavy blizzards by the 2nd in Mongolia.\n\nOn the morning of August 5, the Central Pacific Hurricane Center began monitoring an area of low pressure embedded in a surface trough east southeast of Hilo, Hawaii showed signs of development. The remaining low pressure zone was last notable on August 14 as it crossed the International Date Line, out of the Central Pacific Hurricane Center's area of responsibility. Shortly after crossing the dateline, the remnant low that had been Tropical Storm Kika (2008), entered the western Pacific basin and regenerated into a tropical depression. The meteorological depression continued to move towards the west southwest before dissipating on August 16 over open waters.\n\nOn the August 25, heavy dust storms went over the eastern plains of Somalia and the northeast of a still drought hit northern Kenya.\n\nOn September 14 to 16, a major sandstorm covered an area between the cities of Baghdad, Mosul and Kirkuk. It had apparently started in on the Syrian/Iraq on the 14th and had spread in to neighbouring parts of Iran, Turkey and most of Syria by the 16th.\n\nA huge early season storm began to develop over the Great Basin on the 10th and snowfall spread through the Idaho mountains and into Montana. It spread eastward through the rest of Montana and Wyoming throughout the 10th, bringing heavy snowfall to the northern High Plains and adjacent Rocky Mountains. Snow will fill in across Utah and Colorado on the 11th, and as the strong low pressure area moves northeast through Wyoming and into the High Plains, snow will once again intensify across those regions.\n\nThe mountains of Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, and Utah will see widespread totals of 1–2 feet of snow, with up to 4 feet in the mountains of south-central Montana and the Bighorn Mountains of Wyoming. Snow will fall to the valley floors across the region as well, bringing at least 4 inches to most mountain valley locations, with over 12 inches in some areas. On the High Plains, snow of 6–12 inches will occur from southern Saskatchewan through eastern Montana, western North and South Dakota, and eastern Wyoming. Amounts of 1–2 feet are possible in the far western High Plains region from approximately Billings to Sheridan. In addition, approximately 3–6 inches are expected in the valleys of eastern Idaho, northeastern Nevada, and western Utah, with locally greater totals downwind of the Great Salt Lake due to the lake-effect. The plateaus of southern Wyoming will see blizzard conditions, while the western mountains of Colorado will see up to a foot of snow. This storm is expected to be one of the largest storms to ever affect the region so early in the year.\n\nThe first snowfall in Eastern Canada dumped up to 15 cm of wet snow in Northwestern and southwestern Quebec and the neighboring regions of eastern Ontario, knocking electricity out for some 70,000 people and forcing the closure of several schools and school boards. The same depression also caused worries in Gaspésie due to rainfall. Portions of New York and Pennsylvania received as much as 1-foot of snow.\n\nThe First snowfall for the British Isles dumped around 20 cm of wet snow in parts of Devon and Buckinghamshire. Ireland was also affected with around 10 cm of snow.\n\nA major winter storm affected portions of the northern Plains of North America from the Dakotas to Manitoba. Blizzard conditions across the Dakotas made travel nearly impossible with several roads shut down due to whiteout conditions and winds in excess of 60 mph. As much as 15 inches fell in North Dakota in Towner and Velva, while significant ice fell near the Red River and Devil's Lake areas. Lighter amounts was observed in South Dakota where at most 8 inches fell west of the state capital Pierre. In Manitoba, where 20 centimeters of snow fell, about 2,000 collisions were reported in and around the Winnipeg area.\n\nThe first major snowsquall event of the year occurred in Southern Ontario and parts of Michigan, Pennsylvania and New York. About 100 cm (1 metre) was recorded in some areas.\n\nAt the same time a coastal system produced a major snowstorm across the Canadian Maritimes shutting down many roads in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. About 30 cm of snow fell in the Halifax area and about 20 in Moncton. Over 10,000 customers lost power during the storm. In another snow event during the week preceding the main storm about 1,500 motorists were stranded on the Cobequid Pass of Highway 104 in Nova Scotia.\n\nA strong high ridge emanating from Greenland crossed Europe creating the first wintry conditions in the season. The ridge interacted over the Black sea with an extratropical cyclone, which later created high winds of 25 m/s (force 10, with gusts up to force 12 over Baltic sea) with snowfall over much of eastern and northeastern Europe. Disruptions in power supply, traffic, air traffic and shipping on the Baltic sea were widespread. The cyclone eventually filled over Estonia leaving about a foot of snow over much of the affected area.\n\nA large extratropical cyclone struck California late on November 25. Floods Watches and Warnings, Winter Storm Watches and Warnings were issued for California and Nevada. A flood advisory was in effect for Clark County and Winter Storm Warnings were in effects for the Serrria range. In Canada, Winter Storm Warnings and Snowfall Warnings are in effect, while in some areas it dumped 30 cm, and other areas saw only rain. Wiarton saw 30 cm, Barrie saw 10 cm and Toronto saw rain with mixing at times. Many delays at airports were reported like at Chicago's O'Hare Airport.\n\nA winter storm is affecting portions of Ontario, Wisconsin, Illinois, and Michigan. Upwards of was reported in some areas. In behind it, cold Arctic air is rushing in from the North, and temperatures are dropping rapidly. This is the first major cold wave of the season. The cold air mass has developed more snow squalls of the lakes, as much as 40 cm or more could fall in parts of Michigan and 30 cm or more near the snowbelt region of Ontario.\n\nA fast moving system known as an Alberta clipper is affecting areas around the Great Lakes with up to in most areas. Area's around the lakes could get more snow, because of enhancement off of the Lakes. The storm then affected the northeast with as much as 4 inches of snow, Major cities like New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Providence, Washington D.C., Pittsburgh, Buffalo, and Albany all got some type of snow accumulation. Chicago was hit by freezing air temps. At one point in Boston, 0.5 mile visibility was observed. Long Island, N.Y. had snow ranging from 1 inch in Islip, to 3.5 inches in Huntington. Temperatures in Chicago were as low as 3 degrees Fahrenheit and in the States of Wisconsin and Minnesota, temperatures were in the negatives with Duluth at below 0 and Green Bay saw temperatures at below 0. Temperatures continued to drop in the Northeast, with overnight temperatures in the low teens. Minneapolis was in the negatives all day and at one point it was below 0. States such as Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, Wisconsin, Michigan, Illinois, Ohio, Virginia, and all of the Northeast states were hit by this system with freezing air temperatures and snow accumulations.\n\nA winter storm is affecting parts of Atlantic Canada. As much as 25–50 mm of rain could fall in Nova Scotia, Newfoundland and parts of New Brunswick. Northern Quebec could see 20–30 cm, with similar amounts in Labrador. Winds gusting over 100 km/h are quite possible, once the storm passes, with much colder temperatures. Many areas reported seeing strong gusty winds. Driving will be hazardous in many areas of the Atlantic provinces. As much as 20 cm was recorded in parts of Quebec, and Northern New Brunswick.\n\nA powerful Panhandle hook storm tracked across the Midwestern US, Great Lakes and eastern Canada regions where heavy snow fell from northern Iowa to eastern Quebec. Numerous winter storm, heavy snowfall and freezing rain warnings were issued.\nSnowfall and mixed precipitation fell in parts of Michigan, Illinois, Ohio, Indiana, Wisconsin and Southern Ontario and Quebec and much of New Brunswick.\n\nThe Greater Toronto Area saw between 5 and 10 centimeters before the changeover to rain with local freezing rain particularly north and east of the city. Many areas of central, northeastern and eastern Ontario as well as southern received from 15 to 35 centimeters including 20 cm in the Montreal area and 30 cm in the Ottawa and surrounding region with a few hours of freezing rain from 9 pm to 1 am. The snow storm further complicated the commuters in the Ottawa area where a transit strike at OC Transpo started. About 20 centimeters was recorded in North Bay and up to 30 centimeters in and around the Cottage Country near the Parry Sound and Haliburton regions. There were over 100 crashes reported in Southern Ontario, because of icy conditions and snow.\n\nIn the US, up to 11–12 inches fell in Wisconsin, 14 inches in Michigan, 5 inches in northern Illinois and 7 inches in Iowa\n\nThe storm was also accompanied by heavy rain further south and severe storms which spawned tornadoes from the Alexandria, Louisiana area to near Birmingham, Alabama to west of Atlanta, Georgia. There were 36 reported tornadoes in an outbreak in the southern part of this storm. 33 of those tornadoes were confirmed with five of those EF2s, two in Mississippi, two in Alabama, and one in Louisiana with many destroyed homes, damaged buildings, and overturned cars. Many people were injured in the tornadoes. Other than the EF2s, many EF0s and EF1s were confirmed with damage in Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, and Georgia. One EF0 tornado in Georgia was caught on film as it was hitting a high school, damaging it. The outbreak was one of the largest in the month of December.\nA second storm, with a cold-core upper low, developed on December 11 behind the first one, and spread snow across parts of the Gulf Coast states including the cities of Houston, Texas, Baton Rouge, Louisiana and New Orleans, Louisiana as well as parts of southern Mississippi. Four inches fell in Lumberton and Beaumont in southeast Texas as well as just outside the Baton Rouge area and south central Louisiana. Some areas of west-central Louisiana received as much as 6 inches, while areas just south of Jackson, Mississippi received 8 to 10 inches. It was the first snowfall for the downtown New Orleans area since 2004 while its all-time snowfall record for one storm was 5 inches in December 1963. The winter weather caused local power outages in several parishes in Louisiana. It was also Houston's first snowfall since 2004.\n\nWhile wintry precipitation was light and more scarce across the Tennessee Valley, a swath of freezing rain developed across the northeast, dumping heavy amounts of ice across most of New England. Up to one million customers lost electricity across the entire region due to the ice and high winds from northern New York to Maine. States of emergency were declared by the governors of Massachusetts, New Hampshire and New York. Snowfall amounts topped 9 inches across parts of northern Vermont and New Hampshire. In the Maritime provinces of Canada, several hours of freezing rain were reported, followed by much warmer temperatures. Moncton, New Brunswick hit , which caused flooding.\n\nA major winter storm affected the west coast with rain and snowfall as well as high winds. About 13 cm of snow fell in Vancouver, British Columbia on December 13, while about 20 cm fell in the interior of British Columbia. In behind the storm, a cold air mass developed over British Columbia and temperatures dropped well below the freezing mark for a daytime high even in cities like Vancouver and Victoria. The storm will affect the Canadian Prairies, and U.S. Prairies with blizzard like conditions, likely 10–20 cm could fall, with local amounts of 20 cm or more. The windchill could drop below −35 °C in southern Saskatchewan, and parts of Alberta and Manitoba. Windchill warnings have been posted for those areas. This is a major Arctic outbreak in Western Canada and U.S. Around the Great lakes, Wawa, Ontario saw , Thunder bay, Ontario saw , with lighter amounts away from the center. Southern Ontario saw rain, with strong winds Monday, taking down trees (Toronto reached winds of 40–60 km/h), it has cooled down in Southern Ontario, and parts of the U.S. Northeast. In the Maritime provinces, warmer weather is continuing, but by Tuesday everything will cool down.\n\nA moderately harsh winter storm struck the Midwestern United States on December 16, dropping 3 to 5 inches of snow. In Southern Ontario, the Greater Toronto Area has seen 8–10 cm. With 10 cm in Barrie, and 11 cm in Windsor, Ontario. Heavier snow fell in Midwestern United States where as much as 15 cm or more was recorded. There were over 200 crashes in Southern Ontario, many of them because of careless driving. The storm is affected regions of Atlantic Canada, with 15 cm in Southern New Brunswick, with similar amounts in Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\nA low pressure system moved northeastward from the Pacific Ocean in the Southwestern United States, along with arctic air produced of snow in the Las Vegas Valley with Las Vegas receiving 1 to 4 inches and Henderson receiving , outer edges of the valley received up to a foot of snow. This was the largest snow event in the Las Vegas Valley in over 30 years. The deserts of California also saw a snow event with the same system. Barstow (a San Bernardino suburb) received of snow.\n\nA quick moving Colorado low, affected portions of the southwest, Midwestern US as well as parts of eastern Canada. Previously, the storm produced snow across the Pacific Northwest including the Seattle, Vancouver and Victoria area. Snowfall of was later reported in and around the Las Vegas Valley setting an all-time one-day December snowfall which was previously held in 1967. Heavy snow affected parts of Wisconsin and Michigan dumping up to a foot of snow in the Milwaukee area heavily disrupting air traffic at General Mitchell International Airport NWS Milwaukee, December 20, 2008. Over a foot of snow was also reported locally around Oakland and Macomb Counties near Detroit. The storm also brought about to Las Vegas, the most snow over 3 decades. Most of southwestern Ontario, next in path of the storm received . The snow and blowing snow was the cause of a 25-car pile-up on Highway 400 north of Toronto injuring at least five. The storm also affected parts of New England still recovering from the previous week's ice storm that left over 1 million customers without power.\n\nBy December 19 the storm sped up and dumped across parts of the northeast, including 12 inches from western New York to western Massachusetts. New York City saw several inches of snow before a change to freezing rain and then rain. Up to half of foot of snow is expected in Boston later this evening, before the storm pulls off the coast and strengthens further, effecting the Canadian maritimes as a winter mix of snow and freezing rain. During the storm's peak, as many as 1,000 flights were canceled across the northeast.\n\nSouth of the snow band, a strong ice storm affected the states of Missouri, Iowa and Illinois. Ice accumulation was up to 1.25 inch in some parts of Illinois. Roads are very dangerous and hazardous. Interstates were covered in a sheet of thick ice. Many airports (including Chicago O'Hare) are experiencing cancellations and delays. Schools are also being canceled and delayed. About 300 delays were reported at Toronto's Pearson International Airport.\n\nA winter storm formed off the Pacific coast before affecting the Midwest and Northeastern United States, later during the weekend, right around the Winter Solstice. The winter storm eventually absorbed another low from the north. Winter storm watches and blizzard warnings (not related to the previous storm) were issued from Washington to Maine, as the storm was expected to bring immediate blizzard conditions to parts of the West and Midwest, before affecting the Northeast on Sunday, December 21. The storm was expected to bring winds as high as 90 mph to parts of Washington, by Saturday, December 20.\n\nIn the West Coast, the powerful winter storm affected major cities. Vancouver, British Columbia, and the surrounding areas saw about 15–30 cm of snow, with higher amounts in the higher elevations of the city and on Vancouver Island. Also, in Vancouver, temperatures dropped to about -15 °C on December 20, setting an all-time daily low temperature for that day. Down south, towards Washington, 15–20 cm of snow also fell, with lighter amounts south of Seattle, WA. Many delays were reported at the major airports. Snowfall estimates for the Northeast on Sunday, December 21 currently range from estimates of 4–6 inches for New England to estimates of 5–10 inches in the Adirondacks by the National Weather Service. The storm brought 15 cm of snow to the Greater Toronto Area, with higher amounts towards Lake Huron, Georgian Bay, and the Niagara Region. This winter storm also brought strong winds, gusting to 90 km/h in some areas. The storm brought blizzard conditions, causing delays at the major airports. As much as 20–40 cm fell in New Brunswick, and a wintery mix in Nova Scotia and Newfoundland and Labrador. The winter storm also caused storm surges, with the brisk winds. Resultingly, warnings and watches were issued in the Atlantic provinces. In the Northeast US, some localized areas reported 60 cm of snow, with 30–50 cm in other areas. The storm cut the power to many people, most of them in the State of Maine.\n\nA winter storm developed just off the West Coast, on December 22, becoming a major Winter storm after it moved northward into the U.S. Midwest, and the Great lakes region. The winter storm affected those regions from December 23 to Christmas Day on December 25. The Greater Toronto Area saw 10–15 cm of snow, London, Ontario about 20 cm, with 5 cm in Barrie, Ontario. Rain should followed, behind the snow, with 10–20 mm in Southern Ontario. The heavy rain and snow resulted in delays at many airports; at the O'Hare Airport, and Pearson International, on a busy travelling day (December 24) because of icy and slippery conditions. The storm also brought freezing rain and snow in the Atlantic Provinces, which eventually changed to rain before Christmas. Northern New Brunswick and Quebec saw mostly snow.\n\nOn the West Coast, there was about anywhere from 10–35 cm of snow in many areas of British Columbia, mostly along the coast towards Vancouver, which saw about 20–25 cm. Some of the hills/higher elevations in Metro Vancouver saw 30–35 cm of snow, and temperatures were still in the sub-zero range in all areas of the south coast from the December 14. Lesser amounts of snow fell in Victoria, British Columbia, and on Vancouver Island, with about 15 cm of snow in Victoria.\n\nAn Alberta clipper affected the Great lakes region, the Midwestern United States, and the Northeastern United States. Greater Toronto Area saw about 7–10 cm, with higher amounts towards the Niagara region. After moving off the East Coast, the winter storm quickly began to strengthen over the Atlantic, becoming a blizzard. The Northeastern United States saw about 10–20 cm of snow. The Atlantic provinces were impacted by Blizzard conditions on New Year's Day, with 49 cm of snow recorded in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, and 25 cm of snow in Halifax, Nova Scotia. Blizzard warnings and storm surge warnings were issues, as sustained winds from the North exceeded . Newfoundland and Labrador saw about 15–25 cm of snow, with blowing snow. Another 15–20 cm fell in the Canadian province, as another low moved in.\n\n"}
{"id": "35794152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35794152", "title": "Gosfield Wind Project", "text": "Gosfield Wind Project\n\nThe Gosfield Wind Project is a 50.6 megawatt (MW) wind farm in Kingsville, Ontario, consisting of 22 2.3 MW Siemens SWT 2.3 wind turbines with 49 metre long blades. Construction was completed in October 2010 for CDN 149 million.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44248590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44248590", "title": "Grotta Gigante horizontal pendulums", "text": "Grotta Gigante horizontal pendulums\n\nThe Grotta Gigante horizontal pendulums are a pair of tiltmeters used for monitoring Earth movements, mounted in the Grotta Gigante in Italy. The horizontal pendulums, installed by the geodesist Antonio Marussi in 1959, are sensitive to deviations of the vertical, to rotations and shearing of the cave.\n\nThe pendulum beam is suspended horizontally by two steel wires, an upper one fixed to the roof of the cave, the lower one fixed to the floor. The pendulum beam rotates in the horizontal plane around a virtual near-to-vertical axis that passes through the upper and lower mounting points. \n\nSome movements are aperiodic, others regular, as the Earth tides caused by the lunar and solar gravitational field. The pendulums measure a distance of 95 m between the upper and lower mountings, which contributes to the fact that the instruments detect tectonic movements with high precision and are relatively immune to some of the noise which affects smaller instruments.\n\nThe Earth's crust is the outer brittle layer of our planet, on average thick in continental areas. This moves up and down by ten centimeters during the time of 12 and 24 hours due to the attraction of Moon and Sun, and is accompanied by a local tilting of some parts in a billion of radians.\n\nThe movements of the pendulums has contributed to identify the free oscillations of the Earth, and to show that the secular term tilting of the cave is towards the northwest. The marine tides of the Adriatic have a loading effect in the cave, as have also the underground carstic floods of the river Timavo that disappears at the Skocjanske Cave in Slovenia. The Grotta Gigante tiltmeters are the only existing instruments to have recorded four out of five greatest earthquakes in the recent 50 years, which are the earthquakes of Chile 1960 (the greatest earthquake ever instrumentally recorded) and Chile 2010 (the fifth in the scale of recorded worldwide mega-events) the tsunami-generating event of the Sumatra-Andaman islands of 2004 (third greatest event) and the event of Japan 2011 (fourth greatest event), allowing an absolute-amplitude comparison between these events.\n\n"}
{"id": "31011269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31011269", "title": "Heterogeneous water oxidation", "text": "Heterogeneous water oxidation\n\nHeterogeneous Water Oxidation\n\nWater oxidation is one of the half reactions of water splitting:\n\n2HO → O + 4H + 4e Oxidation (generation of dioxygen)\n\n4H + 4e → 2HReduction (generation of dihydrogen)\n\n2HO → 2H + OTotal Reaction\n\nOf the two half reactions, the oxidation step is the most demanding because it requires the coupling of 4 electron and proton transfers and the formation of an oxygen-oxygen bond. This process occurs naturally in plants photosystem II to provide protons and electrons for the photosynthesis process and release oxygen to the atmosphere, as well as in some electrowinning processes. Since hydrogen can be used as an alternative clean burning fuel, there has been a need to split water efficiently. However, there are known materials that can mediate the reduction step efficiently therefore much of the current research is aimed at the oxidation half reaction also known as the Oxygen Evolution Reaction (OER). Current research focuses on understanding the mechanism of OER and development of new materials that catalyze the process.\n\nBoth the oxidation and reduction steps are pH dependent. Figure 1 shows the standard potentials at pH 0 (strongly acidic) as referenced to the normal hydrogen electrode (NHE).\n\n2 half reactions (at pH = 0)\nOxidation2HO → 4H + 4e + OE° = 1.23 V vs. NHE\n\nReduction4H + 4e → 2HE° = 0.00 V vs. NHE\n\nOverall2HO → 2H + OE°cell = -1.23 V; ΔG = 475 kJ/mol \n\nWater splitting can be done at higher pH values as well however the standard potentials will vary according to the Nernst equation and therefore shift by -59 mV for each pH unit increase. However, the total cell potential (difference between oxidation and reduction half cell potentials) will remain 1.23 V. This potential can be related to Gibbs free energy (ΔG) by:\n\nΔG°cell = −nFE°cell\n\nWhere n is the number of electrons per mole products and F is the Faraday constant. Therefore, it takes 475 kJ of energy to make one mole of O2 as calculated by thermodynamics. However, in reality no process can be this efficient. Systems always suffer from an overpotential that arise from activation barriers, concentration effects and voltage drops due to resistance. The activation barriers or activation energy is associated with high energy transition states that are reached during the electrochemical process of OER. The lowering of these barriers would allow for OER to occur at lower overpotentials and faster rates.\n\nHeterogeneous OER is sensitive to the surface which the reaction takes place and is also affected by the pH of the solution. The general mechanism for acidic and alkaline solutions is shown below. Under acidic conditions water binds to the surface with the irreversible removal of one electron and one proton to form a platinum hydroxide. In an alkaline solution a reversible binding of hydroxide ion coupled to a one electron oxidation is thought to precede a turnover-limiting electrochemical step involving the removal of one proton and one electron to form a surface oxide species. The shift in mechanism between the pH extremes has been attributed to the kinetic facility of oxidizing hydroxide ion relative to water. Using the Tafel equation, one can obtain kinetic information about the kinetics of the electrode material such as the exchange current density and the Tafel slope. OER is presumed to not take place on clean metal surfaces such as platinum, but instead an oxide surface is formed prior to oxygen evolution.\n\nOER has been studied on a variety of materials including:\n\nPreparation of the surface and electrolysis conditions have a large effect on reactivity (defects, steps, kinks, low coordinate sites) therefore it is difficult to predict an OER material's properties by its bulk structure. Surface effects have a large influence on the kinetics and thermodynamics of OER.\n\nPlatinum has been a widely studied material for OER because it is the catalytically most active element for this reaction. It exhibits exchange current density values on the order of 10 A/cm. Much of the mechanistic knowledge of OER was gathered from studies on platinum and its oxides. It was observed that there was a lag in the evolution of oxygen during electrolysis. Therefore, an oxide film must first form at the surface before OER begins. The Tafel slope, which is related to the kinetics of the electrocatalytic reaction, was shown to be independent of the oxide layer thickness at low current densities but becomes dependent on oxide thickness at high current densities \n\nIridium oxide (IrO) is the industry standard OER catalyst used in polymer electrolyte membrane electrolysis due to its high stability. It was first proposed in the 1970s as an OER catalyst, and has been widely researched and implemented since then.\n\nRuthenium oxide (RuO) shows some of the best performance as an OER material in acidic environments. It has been studied since the early 1970s as a water oxidation catalyst with one of the lowest reported overpotentials for OER at the time. It has since been investigated for OER in Ru(110) single crystal oxide surfaces, compact films, Titanium supported films. RuO films can be prepared by thermal decomposition of ruthenium chloride on inert substrates.\n\nnanoporous lithium-magnesium ferrite pellet along with two electrodes, zinc as an anode and silver as an inert cathode, immersed in ion free water within a glass container. Spontaneous chemidissociation of water molecules into hydronium and hydroxide ions occurs at the defective surface of lithium substituted magnesium ferrite. Hydronium ions get trapped inside nanopores of ferrite that generate enough electrostatic fields to dissociate further water molecules into ions. Hydroxide ions instantly forms zinc hydroxide at the zinc electrode, releasing two electrons at the site of oxidation, the anode. The electrons are collected on another silver electrode at the site of reduction, the cathode, which converts hydronium ions into hydrogen gas and water. There is a net flow of current in the cell which can be used to do work. The reaction mechanism of the cell is expressed as:\n\n\nThe overall HEC voltage is Ecell = 0.22 + 0.76 = 0.98 V\n"}
{"id": "23586028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23586028", "title": "Inertia damper", "text": "Inertia damper\n\nAn inertia damper is a device that counters or damps the effects of inertia and other forces and motion. The damper does not negate the forces but either absorbs or redirects them by other means. For example, a large suspended mass may be used to absorb several short-duration large forces, and to reapply those forces as a smaller force over a longer period.\n\nThe phrase \"inertial damper\" is actually misused in science fiction to describe a device that negates inertia and removes it from surrounding mass. It is more properly described as inertia negation.\n\nInertial compensators are also used in simulators or rides, making them more realistic by creating artificial sensations of acceleration and other movement. The Disneyland ride “Star Tours: The Adventure Continues” is a fair example of this principle.\n\nThere are many types of physical devices that can act as inertia dampers:\n"}
{"id": "1166630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1166630", "title": "Institute for Creation Research", "text": "Institute for Creation Research\n\nThe Institute for Creation Research (ICR) is a Creationist apologetics institute in Dallas, Texas that specializes in media promotion of pseudoscientific creation science and interpretation of the Genesis creation narrative as a historical event. The ICR adopts the Bible as an inerrant and literal documentary of scientific and historical fact as well as religious and moral truths, and espouses a Young Earth creationist worldview. It rejects evolutionary biology, which it views as a corrupting moral and social influence and threat to religious belief. The ICR was formed by Henry M. Morris in 1972 following an organizational split with the Creation Science Research Center (CSRC).\n\nIts work in the field of creation science has been rejected by mainstream science, but has been significant in shaping creationist thought in the United States by introducing creation science through fundamentalist churches and religious schools, and by engaging in public debates against supporters of evolution. The ICR also offers non-certified graduate level programs in Biblical Apologetics, including a minor in Creation Research. In 1992, the ICR started the Museum of Creation and Earth History and hosted adventure tours, but it was sold to Life and Light Foundation in 2008.\n\nThe origins of the ICR can be traced to the Creation Science Research Center set up by Henry M. Morris, along with Nell and Kelly Segraves, at the Christian Heritage College (now San Diego Christian College) in 1970. However, the Segraveses and Morris disagreed on the focus of the center, with the Segraveses favoring political and promotional activities, whilst Morris favored educational and scientific efforts. This led to the breakup of the center in 1972, with the Segraveses taking control of the center and severing ties with the university, with Morris reorganising the remaining staff into the Institute for Creation Research.\n\nThe ICR defined its work in terms of three ministries: research, writing and speaking. Historian of science Ronald L. Numbers states that \"[d]espite its name, the institute for years conducted little research outside the confines of its modest library\" and cites (founding member) Duane Gish as \"explain[ing] apologetically in 1978, [that] the staff devoted much of its research effort to scouring the scientific literature for references favorable to creationism.\" Numbers does note that it engaged in a number of archaeological and geological expeditions, including two in search of the mythical Noah's Ark, with geologist Steven A. Austin, working as an \"off and on\" visiting scientist until taking a full staff position in 1979, single-handedly conducting most of its non-literary research. Influential scientific creationist Walter E. Lammerts complained that \"[t]he main trouble is that Henry looks at this whole thing as a sort of 'missionary' effort rather than a scientific one.\" It maintained tax-exempt status as a religious institution carrying out \"non-scientific research.\"\n\nIn the early 1980s the ICR severed its ties with Christian Heritage College to downplay its religious connections and portray itself as secular scientific institution. Ken Ham, a speaker and former high school science teacher in Australia, once worked for the ICR producing a series of seminars \"Back to Genesis\". In 1994 Ham left ICR to found what would become Answers in Genesis (AiG). Currently, at least one ICR staff member is also on staff at AiG.\n\nIn 1985, the ICR helped Turkey’s education minister Vehbi Dinçerler, introduce Islamic creationism in Turkish high schools.\n\nIn 1987, the ICR's statement of belief was cited in the U.S. Supreme Court ruling of Edwards v. Aguillard. Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr. wrote that \"If no valid secular purpose can be identified, then the statute violates the Establishment Clause.\" He continued noting information on ICR and Creation Research Society including \"a review of their goals and activities sheds light on the nature of creation science.\" He then explained, \"the intent of the Louisiana Legislature was to promote a particular religious belief\" and the court ruled that teaching creationism was unconstitutional.\n\nIn 2007, the institute relocated from Santee, California, to Dallas, Texas. Morris, who died the previous year, said the move was intended to give the ICR a central national location, Dallas' proximity to a major airport, and a larger population for their ministry. For FYE 2007, the Institute had net assets of $7,613,461. In 2009, the ICR had a revenue of $8,042,283 with net assets of $9,857,656.\n\nIn a 1995 review of work published by ICR researchers, Douglas J. Futuyma writes, \"Neither in the creationist literature nor in the scientific literature have I found any reference to professional research by these individuals in genetics, paleontology, taxonomy, anatomy, or any of the other fields most relevant to the study of evolution.\" He found their work most often published instead by an overtly religious publishing house, Creation-Life Publishers. The institute also publishes a monthly magazine Acts and Facts devoted to articles \"dealing with creation, evolution, and related topics\". The work of the ICR is primarily distributed through religious settings as well as before public audiences in live debates with scientists and other supporters of biological evolution.\n\nICR launched the Jonathan Park radio drama series based on a book of the same title. Production of the radio program was transferred to Vision Forum Ministries in 2004.\n\nMaster Books is a division within Creation-Life Publishers, another enterprise Morris helped to found. It serves as the publishing arm of the Institute for Creation Research, and specializes in theology and creation science works. Master Books' anti-evolution books are in wide distribution, promoted by most of the large creationist organizations as well as the ICR.\n\nIn June 1981, the ICR received formal state approval in California to offer degree programs, and its first graduate level courses were taught in the summer of that year.\n\nIn 1988, the ICR sought re-approval. A five-person committee from the California Department of Education sent to evaluate ICR's degree program found its graduate school consisted of only five full-time faculty and some courses were videotaped rather than professor-led instruction. The committee failed to grant re-approval by 3–2 vote, a move the ICR attributed to \"religious intolerance\" rather than criticisms of the quality of education it provided. This resulted in California's State Superintendent of Public Instruction barring the institute from granting master's degrees in science, which encompassed their existing graduate degree programs in the teaching of biology, geology, astrogeophysics and science.\n\nICR filed a lawsuit against California's State Superintendent, Bill Honig, and was awarded a settlement of $225,000 and given permission to continue its program until 1995 so long as it continued to teach evolution alongside creationism. The original agreement expired in 1995, and California Bureau for Private Postsecondary and Vocational Education (BPPVE) granted the ICR religious exemption from postsecondary school requirements in California.\n\nIn 1982, the ICR received accreditation from the Transnational Association of Christian Colleges and Schools (TRACS). According to Morris, TRACS and ICR founder, TRACS is a \"product of the ICR Graduate School\" and was created \"Because of the prejudice against creation-science, outspoken creationist schools such as ICRGS used to stand little or no chance of getting recognition through accreditation.\" TRACS was officially recognized as an accreditor by the US Department of Education in 1991. Following the ICR's move to Dallas, in November 2007, TRACS terminated its accredited status after the ICR requested its termination. Texas does not recognize TRACS' accreditation.\n\nThe ICR's relocation to Texas required Texas state approval or accreditation by a regional accrediting agency, in this case Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS). In 2007, the ICR applied for a temporary state certification there which would have allowed the institute to operate while it pursues accreditation through SACS. In December 2007, the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) received an advisory committee recommendation to allow the ICR to start offering online master's degrees in science education.\n\nThe Board originally planned to decide on the issue at their January 2008 meeting. At the time it applied, ICR graduate school had approximately 30 to 50 students, most teachers from private Christian schools or home-schoolers, and four full-time faculty.\n\nAfter seeking the advice from an independent panel, the Chairman of the Texas Board requested information about the research conducted by the faculty, how an on-line program would expose students to the experimental side of science, and asked why \"[t]heir curriculum doesn't line up very well with the curriculum available in conventional master of science programs.\" Subsequently, the ICR asked the THECB to delay its decision until their next meeting, on April 24, 2008 to give them time to respond. Inside Higher Ed reported \"lobbying — by scientists against the institute, and by others in its favor — is going strong.\"\n\n\"The Dallas Morning News\" obtained some of the messages sent to the board and published a number of examples and summaries that illustrated how intense the debate had become. Following the response from the ICR to the Board, Steven Schafersman, of the Texas Citizens for Science, reported that the ICR sent out \"prayer requests\" and is currently arguing a creationist derived distinction of science in their application for approval.\n\nOn April 23, 2008, education board's Academic Excellence and Research Committee unanimously voted against allowing the ICR to issue science degrees citing \"the institute’s program is infused with creationism and runs counter to conventions of science that hold that claims of supernatural intervention are not testable and therefore lie outside the realm of science.\" On the following day the full Board unanimously voted against allowing the ICR to issue science degrees. The decision was \"based the recommendation on two considerations:\n\nThe ICR said it would appeal the decision saying the Education Board was guilty of \"viewpoint discrimination.\" Instead, in April 2009, the ICR sued the THECB in federal court for imposing \"an unconstitutional and prejudicial burden against ICRGS's academic freedom and religious liberties\" and asked for the ability to award science degrees. In June 2010, a judge ruled in favor of the Texas Higher Education saying the ICR \"is entirely unable to file a complaint which is not overly verbose, disjointed, incoherent, maundering and full of irrelevant information.\" The judge concluded, \"The Court simply comes to the conclusion, which is inescapable, that the [THECB] decision was rationally related to a legitimate state interest.\" In the September 2010 ICR newsletter, Henry Morris III, the ICR's chief executive officer, wrote \"ICR's legal battle is over\" after the Judge ruled in favor of the Texas Board.\n\nIn 2010, the ICR board of directors voted to close the ICR Graduate School and open a School of Biblical Apologetics, offering a Master of Christian Education degree with Creation Research being one of four minors. The ICR noted that \"Due to the nature of ICR's School of Biblical Apologetics — a predominantly religious education school — it is exempt from licensing by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.\n\nYoung-earth creationism is rejected by nearly all scientists, including most scientists who hold to Christian faith with more than 45 science organizations having criticized creationism as not science. Professor Massimo Pigliucci, a professor of ecology and evolution at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, has criticized ICR for professing to present the same science as that taught in secular universities while at the same time requiring students and faculty to sign a statement of faith to ICR's fundamentalist religious mission, most notably in affirming conformity in all its work to Biblical doctrine. Pigliucci notes that any research conducted within the ICR's policy framework is prescribed at the outset by Biblical literalism, and thus antithetical to the methods and framework used by scientists. As examples, Pigliucci cites ICR scientist Harold Slusher resorting to non-Euclidean and non-Einsteinian explanations of light travel to reconcile the vast distances light travels in space with the brief timescale given in young earth creationism, and the association adopted by the ICR between the second principle of thermodynamics and the Bible's account of the fall of Adam. Pigliucci further claimed that \"some of the historical claims found in the ICR museum are also stunning and show how easily ideology gets the better of accuracy.\"\n\nOn January 7, 2007 the National Center for Science Education reported that \"\", edited by Tom Vail and published by Master Books, the publishing arm of the Institute for Creation Research, and described as promoting \"a young-earth creationist view of the geology of the Grand Canyon,\" was facing new scrutiny by Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility (PEER) in December 2006. The Chief of the Park Service's Geologic Resources Division recommended its removal on grounds that it \"does not use accurate, professional and scholarly knowledge; is not based on science but a specific religious doctrine; does not further the public's understanding of the Grand Canyon's existence; [and] does not further the mission of the National Park Service\". A report by the National Center for Science Education, written by Chemist Karen Bartelt was critical of the ICR representatives and displays in the \"museum.\"\n\nOld Earth creationists are opposed to the ICR. Gary North \"opposes the ICR on the grounds that they\" think the second principle of thermodynamics contradicts evolution, and John W. Robbins considers the ICR's activities a \"fraud.\" The old-Earth creationist organization Answers In Creation criticizes the ICR, including a critical review by Kevin R. Henke, Ph.D of the ICR's dating claims. Henke concluded that the ICR's \"research\" was improperly conducted and \"was unsuccessful in adequately separating the volcanic glass from the much older minerals.\" Another creationist opponent of ICR and its doctrine is Hugh Ross, who accepts the scientific consensus of a 4.54 billion year old Earth and is critical of ICR's cosmological models as well as their attempts to solve the starlight problem.\n\nThe ICR attracted much opposition when it sought approval in Texas to operate a master's degree program in science education. An April 2008 survey by Texas Freedom Network showed the majority of science faculties in Texas are opposed to ICR's request to issue science degrees with 185 (95% of respondents) opposed to certifying the program and 6 (3%) in favor. Officials of the institute state their goal is to integrate Biblical creationism with science. Since their program is intended to prepare students who are or will become teachers, the developing program is controversial. In public statements ICR officials say that scientific literacy will be emphasized, but science advocates critical of the ICR say the institute's true goal is to restore religious creationism to science classes in the public schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "32678722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32678722", "title": "Institution of Diesel and Gas Turbine Engineers", "text": "Institution of Diesel and Gas Turbine Engineers\n\nThe Institution of Diesel and Gas Turbine Engineers is the professional association for engineers in the diesel and gas turbine industry in the UK and internationally.\n\nDiesel engines and gas turbines are broadly related because they use a similar thermodynamic cycle, and both are often used (and interchangeable) for power generation for heating and electricity in large installations. \n\nIt was established in 1913 as the Diesel Engine Users' Association. It changed to its current name in 1984.\n\nIt is based in the north-west of Bedford towards Brickhill at Bedford Heights\"\" \n\nTypes of membership are Student, Associate, Member, Fellow, Retired, Retired Associate, Company and Subscriber.\n\nIt represents engineers in the diesel and gas turbine industry in the UK and internationally, enabling current knowledge to be widely known. It organises conferences and industry-based training.\n\nIt registers Chartered Engineers Incorporated Engineers and Engineering Technicians in the industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41359304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41359304", "title": "Iron powder", "text": "Iron powder\n\nIron powder has several uses; for example production of magnetic alloys and certain types of steels.\n\nIron powder is formed as a whole from several other iron particles. The particle sizes vary anywhere from 20-200 μm. The iron properties differ depending on the production method and history of a specific iron powder. There are three types of iron powder classifications: reduced iron powder, atomized powder, and electrolyte iron powder. Each type is used in various applications depending on their properties. There is very little difference in the visual appearances of reduced iron powder and atomized iron powder.\n\nMost iron powders are used for automobile parts. \n\n\n\n\nIron powder is also used for the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "43897478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43897478", "title": "Korean Air Flight 8702", "text": "Korean Air Flight 8702\n\nKorean Air flight 8702, operated by a Boeing 747-400, departed Tokyo, Narita International Airport on 5 August 1998 at 16:50 for a flight to Seoul, scheduled to arrive there at 19:20. Bad weather, including heavy rainfall, at Seoul forced the flight crew to divert to Jeju. The aircraft took off from Jeju at 21:07 for Seoul. The flight was cleared to land on runway 14R with a crosswind component as the wind was from 220 degrees at 22 knots. Upon touchdown, the aircraft rolled off the runway. The aircraft slid into a ditch. The undercarriage was destroyed by the impact and the fuselage split. After the crash, the inside of the aircraft caught fire, but all the occupants were able to evacuate the aircraft.\n\nThe KCAB's investigation determined that the accident was caused by the captain's misuse of the thrust reverser during the landing roll and his confusion over crosswind conditions.\n\nAt the time of the accident, there were 27 other Boeing 747-400 aircraft in the Korean Air fleet.\n\nThe aircraft involved was a Boeing 747-4B5, registration HL7496 delivered to Korean Air on 27 June 1996. Two years and two months old, it was the 21st 747-400 delivered to Korean Air and one of 27 in the fleet at the time of the accident. With line number 1083 and Construction Number (MSN) 26400, it had not been involved in any serious incidents in the time leading up to the crash.\n\nThe aircraft involved was the fourth of five Boeing 747s (2 -200, 1 -300, this -400 and 1 -200F) to be written off by Korean Air in a time lapse of 15 years\n\nKorean Air flight 8702 was a scheduled flight from Tokyo, Narita International Airport to Seoul, Gimpo International Airport. Due to poor weather, the crew diverted to Jeju International Airport. Upon landing the aircraft was towed to the main terminal and the passengers temporarily disembarked into the terminal. Two hours later the passengers re-boarded the aircraft for the 1 hour flight back to Seoul\n\nThe aircraft took off from Jeju at 21:07 for Seoul. The flight was cleared to land on runway 14R with a crosswind component as the wind was from 220 degrees at 22 knots. Upon touchdown, the captain misused the reverse thrusters in a way the No. 1 engine failed to provide reverse thrust. Coupled with the fact the captain was confused with crosswind conditions and the first officer was preoccupied and not paying attention to the landing, the 747 failed to stop before the end of the runway. The aircraft swerved to the right and slid into a ditch at 50 knots with the fuselage splitting up.\n"}
{"id": "1145404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1145404", "title": "Lead zirconate titanate", "text": "Lead zirconate titanate\n\nLead zirconate titanate is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula Pb<nowiki>[</nowiki><nowiki>]</nowiki> (0≤\"x\"≤1). Also called PZT, it is a ceramic perovskite material that shows a marked piezoelectric effect, meaning that the compound changes shape when an electric field is applied. It is used in a number of practical applications such as ultrasonic transducers and piezoelectric resonators. It is a white to off-white solid.\n\nPZT was first developed around 1952 at the Tokyo Institute of Technology. Compared to Barium titanate, a previously discovered metallic oxide-based piezoelectric material, PZT exhibit greater sensitivity and has a higher operating temperature. Due to its physical strength, chemical inertness, tailorability, and relatively inexpensive manufacture costs, it is one of the most commonly used piezo ceramics used in the industry.\n\nBeing piezoelectric, PZT develops a voltage (or potential difference) across two of its faces when compressed (useful for sensor applications), or physically changes shape when an external electric field is applied (useful for actuator applications). The Relative permittivity of PZT can range from 300 to 3850, depending upon orientation and doping.\n\nBeing pyroelectric, this material develops a voltage difference across two of its faces under changing temperature conditions; consequently, PZT can be used as a heat sensor. PZT is also ferroelectric, which means it has a spontaneous electric polarization (electric dipole) that can be reversed in the presence of an electric field.\n\nThe material features an extremely large relative permittivity at the morphotropic phase boundary (MPB) near \"x\" = 0.52.\n\nSome formulations are ohmic until at least 250 kV/cm (25 MV/m), after which current grows exponentially with field strength before reaching avalanche breakdown; but PZT exhibits time-dependent dielectric breakdown — breakdown may occur under constant-voltage stress after minutes to hours, depending on voltage and temperature, so its dielectric strength depends on the time scale over which it is measured. Other formulations have dielectric strengths measured in the 8–16 MV/m range.\n\nPZT-based materials are components of ultrasound transducers and ceramic capacitors, STM/AFM actuators (tubes).\n\nPZT is used to make ultrasound transducers and other sensors and actuators, as well as high-value ceramic capacitors and FRAM chips. PZT is also used in the manufacture of ceramic resonators for reference timing in electronic circuitry. In 1975 Sandia National Laboratories created anti-flash goggles featuring PZLT to protect aircrew from burns and blindness in case of a nuclear explosion. The PLZT lenses could turn opaque in less than 150 microseconds.\n\nCommercially, it is usually not used in its pure form, rather it is doped with either acceptors, which create oxygen (anion) vacancies, or donors, which create metal (cation) vacancies and facilitate domain wall motion in the material. In general, acceptor doping creates \"hard\" PZT while donor doping creates \"soft\" PZT. Hard and soft PZT's generally differ in their piezoelectric constants. Piezoelectric constants are proportional to the polarization or to the electrical field generated per unit of mechanical stress, or alternatively is the mechanical strain produced by per unit of electric field applied. In general, \"soft\" PZT has a higher piezoelectric constant, but larger losses in the material due to internal friction. In \"hard\" PZT, domain wall motion is pinned by the impurities thereby lowering the losses in the material, but at the expense of a reduced piezoelectric constant.\n\nOne of the commonly studied chemical composition is Pb. The increased piezoelectric response and poling efficiency near to \"x\" = 0.52 is due to the increased number of allowable domain states at the MPB. At this boundary, the 6 possible domain states from the tetragonal phase <100> and the 8 possible domain states from the rhombohedral phase <111> are equally favorable energetically, thereby allowing a maximum 14 possible domain states.\n\nLike structurally similar lead scandium tantalate and barium strontium titanate, PZT can be used for manufacture of uncooled staring array infrared imaging sensors for thermographic cameras. Both thin film (usually obtained by chemical vapor deposition) and bulk structures are used. The formula of the material used usually approaches Pb(ZrTi)O (called PZT 30/70). Its properties may be modified by doping it with lanthanum, resulting in lanthanum-doped lead zirconium titanate (PLZT, also called lead lanthanum zirconium titanate), with formula PbLa(ZrTi)O (PLZT 17/30/70).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35239323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35239323", "title": "Macrofungi of Guatemala", "text": "Macrofungi of Guatemala\n\nGuatemala is one of the richest biodiversity hotspots in the world. This is due to the variety of its territory and ecosystems that occur from sea level up to more than 4,000 meters above sea level. Ecological niches include (but are not limited to) subtropical and tropical rain forests, wetlands, dry forests, scrublands, cloud forests, pine-fir forests in the highlands. Despite this wealth, however, our knowledge on the mycobiota of the country is very poor. There are several reasons for this, primarily the prolonged Guatemalan civil war (1960–1996) and related political and social instability that have severely hampered field work in the country. The lack of trained local mycologists has certainly also delayed the detailed investigation of the rich mycota inhabiting the highly diversified Guatemalan biotopes.\n\nLarger fungi (usually referred to as macrofungi or macromycetes) are of particular interest because of their importance as food resources and as a component of traditional culture in many places in the world. Moreover, many basidiomycetes and ascomycetes with conspicuous sporocarps often play an important role as ectomycorrhizal mycobionts of trees and shrubs of boreal forests in the northern hemisphere and are important elements in many areas of the southern hemisphere. Although Guatemalan macrofungi have not been as yet extensively surveyed, a preliminary checklist encompasses some 350 species of macromycetes (31 ascomycetes and 319 basidiomycetes) occurring in 163 genera and 20 ascomycetous and basidiomycetous orders. Recently, 12 species of Ascomicetes where cited, with the new records, there are now 44 ascomycete species known from Guatemala Most available observations pertain to the highlands, in the departments of Alta Verapaz, Baja Verapaz, Chimaltenango, Guatemala, El Quiché, Huehuetenango, and Quetzaltenango, while the wide lowland Petén region has been scantly explored, despite the fact that it accounts for about one third of Guatemala's area and, together with adjacent areas of Belize and southern Mexico, comprise the largest unbroken tract of tropical forest north of the Brazilian Amazon. At the order level, \"Agaricales\" was found to host the larger number of species (almost one third of the entire set), followed by \"Polyporales\" and \"Boletales\". The most represented genera are \"Amanita\", \"Russula\", \"Lactarius\", \"Laccaria\", \"Suillus\". Intriguingly, all these genera are ectomycorrhizal with the several \"Pinus\" and \"Quercus\" species that form extensive pine and mixed forests of the highlands, and/or with the endangered \"Abies guatemalensis\" (pinabete), most abundant between 2800–3200 m elevation on the Sierra de los Cuchumatanes in western Guatemala.\n\n“The Mesoamerican tradition of eating wild edible fungi continues from Mexico to west Guatemala then is absent from much of Honduras and Nicaragua, even though both contain forest areas that in theory support production of edible fungi,” remarked Eric Boa in his reference volume on worldwide wild edible fungi.\n\nIndeed, the deep mycophily of Guatemalan indigenous people is apparent. Ethnomycological surveys conducted in the highlands, mainly through visits to local markets and interviews with vendors, revealed that some 130 species were identified as edible species, most of which actually sold in markets or along roadsides. Species of edible mushrooms belonging to different genera (e.g., \"Amanita\", \"Lactarius\", \"Helvella\") are often offered mixed together, and sold in form of ‘medida’, i.e. a fixed amount, which equals the content of a small basket. However, the more popular and valuable species are usually sold separately. \"Lactarius deliciosus\" and \"L. indigo\" – known as ‘Shara’ (or ‘Xara’) ‘amarilla’ and ‘Shara’ (or ‘Xara’) ‘azul’, respectively, or ‘Cabeza de Xara’ in local Spanish (Sharas, also known as ‘urracas’, are birds, variously coloured, living in different parts of the country) – \"Amanita caesarea\" complex (hongo de San Juan), and \"Cantharellus cibarius\" (anacate), are among the most appreciated edible mushrooms among Guatemalan Maya people. \"Daldinia fissa\" is recorded as a common edible ascomycete from the municipality of Tecpán, Department of Chimaltenango. The mushroom is named as “tzan tz’i” in Kaqchikel dialect, that means “dog nose ” or “chucho nose” because of ascostroma shape. Many, but by no means all, edible species are identified through common vernacular names that have been sometimes recorded in several Maya languages. Generally, mushrooms are gathered and sold by women, often in family groups spanning three generations. Localities with more traditional knowledge, based on the number of\nspecies are used, were Tecpán (Chimaltenango) with 31 species, followed by San Juan Comalapa (Chimaltenango)and Totonicapán city (Totonicapán), with 22 species each. The collection of wild edible fungi is done throughout the year and the main forms used for marketing were the \"medida\", \"unidad\", \"Libra\" and \"manojo\", being subject to their species or group of species in question use. The use of macrofungi in Guatemala other than for human consumption is limited to a few instances, such as for wound healing and for preventing infections (spores and dried mycelia of \"Calvatia\" \"lilacina\" and \"C. cyathiformis\"), cicatrizing substances to treat burns in children (sporocarps of \"Geastrum\" and \"Lycoperdon\"), to heal and disinfect wounds and to treat bee stings (dried specimens of \"Lycoperdon marginatum\").\n\nGuatemala hosted the 7th International Workshop on Edible Ectomycorrhizal Mushrooms (IWEMM-7). Held in the beautiful colonial city of Antigua, from July 29 to August 3, 2013, the congress convened researchers from worldwide institutions to discuss the most recent information about diversity, cultivation and production of wild edible mycorrhizal mushrooms. Several talks also dealt with the current status of knowledge on macrofungi in Guatemala and their traditional use.\n\n"}
{"id": "13033048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13033048", "title": "Mallite", "text": "Mallite\n\nMallite is a type of laminate composite material, formerly manufactured by the \"William Mallinson & Sons\" company. The material is formed of a core sheet of end grain balsa wood, faced by duralumin sheets. This construction endows the finished material with greater strength and rigidity than a light alloy sheet of equal mass. The material was originally developed in the late 1950s for use in the aerospace industry, primarily for use in flooring and internal partitioning in jet airliner construction. However, it found fame as one of the first engineered composite materials to be employed in the motorsport industry. Robin Herd, formerly a designer on the Concorde project, used his aerospace knowledge to design the first McLaren single-seater racing cars. The M2A prototype used Mallite extensively, throughout its construction. The final production model, the Formula One McLaren M2B of 1966, only used Mallite for its internal skins and lower bodywork; a lack of understanding of the material's properties had led the team to design the car with conventional curved bodywork, creating problems during the fabrication process as the inherently inflexible material would not readily conform to complex, compound curvatures. With greater understanding of Mallite's properties Herd later used the material to construct the unraced Cosworth four-wheel drive Formula One car of 1969, noted for its slab-sided, angular looks.\n"}
{"id": "58840824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58840824", "title": "Mechanics of gelation", "text": "Mechanics of gelation\n\nMechanics of gelation describes processes relevant to sol-gel process.\n\nIn a static sense, the fundamental difference between a liquid and a solid is that the solid has elastic resistance against a shearing stress while a liquid does not. Thus, a simple liquid will not typically support a transverse acoustic phonon, or shear wave. Gels have been described by Born as liquids in which an elastic resistance against shearing survives, yielding both viscous and elastic properties. It has been shown theoretically that in a certain low-frequency range, polymeric gels should propagate shear waves with relatively low damping. The distinction between a sol (solution) and a gel therefore appears to be understood in a manner analogous to the practical distinction between the elastic and plastic deformation ranges of a metal. The distinction lies in the ability to respond to an applied shear force via macroscopic viscous flow.\n\nIn a dynamic sense, the response of a gel to an alternating force (oscillation or vibration) will depend upon the period or frequency of vibration. As indicated here, even most simple liquids will exhibit some elastic response at shear rates or frequencies exceeding 5 x 10 cycles per second. Experiments on such short time scales probe the fundamental motions of the primary particles (or particle clusters) which constitute the lattice structure or aggregate. The increasing resistance of certain liquids to flow at high stirring speeds is one manifestation of this phenomenon. The ability of a condensed body to respond to a mechanical force by viscous flow is thus strongly dependent on the time scale over which the load is applied, and thus the frequency and amplitude of the stress wave in oscillatory experiments.\n\nThe structural relaxation of a viscoelastic gel has been identified as primary mechanism responsible for densification and associated pore evolution in both colloidal and polymeric silica gels. Experiments in the viscoelastic properties of such skeletal networks on various time scales require a force varying with a period (or frequency) appropriate to the relaxation time of the phenomenon investigated, and inversely proportional to the distance over which such relaxation occurs. High frequencies associated with ultrasonic waves have been used extensively in the handling of polymer solutions, liquids and gels and the determination of their viscoelastic properties. Static measurements of the shear modulus have been made, as well as dynamic measurements of the speed of propagation of shear waves, which yields the dynamic modulus of rigidity. Dynamic light scattering (DLS) techniques have been utilized in order to monitor the dynamics of density fluctuations through the behavior of the autocorrelation function near the point of gelation.\n\nTanaka \"et al\"., emphasize that the discrete and reversible volume transitions which occur in partially hydrolyzed acrylimide gels can be interpreted in terms of a phase transition of the system consisting of the charged polymer network, hydrogen (counter)ions and liquid matrix. The phase transition is a manifestation of competition among the three forces which contribute to the osmotic pressure in the gel:\nThe balance of these forces varies with change in temperature or solvent properties. The total osmotic pressure acting on the system is the sum osmotic pressure of the gel. It is further shown that the phase transition can be induced by the application of an electric field across the gel. The volume change at the transition point is either discrete (as in a first-order Ehrenfest transition) or continuous (second order Ehrenfest analogy), depending on the degree of ionization of the gel and on the solvent composition.\n\nThe gel is thus interpreted as an elastic continuum, which deforms when subjected to externally applied shear forces, but is incompressible upon application of hydrostatic pressure. This combination of fluidity and rigidity is explained in terms of the gel structure: that of a liquid contained within a fibrous polymer network or matrix by the extremely large friction between the liquid and the fiber or polymer network. Thermal fluctuations may produce infinitesimal expansion or contraction within the network, and the evolution of such fluctuations will ultimately determine the molecular morphology and the degree of hydration of the body.\n\nQuasi-elastic light scattering offers direct experimental access to measurement of the wavelength and lifetimes of critical fluctuations, which are governed by the viscoelastic properties of the gel. It is reasonable to expect a relationship between the amplitude of such fluctuations and the elasticity of the network. Since the elasticity measures the resistance of the network to either elastic (reversible) or plastic (irreversible) deformation, the fluctuations should grow larger as the elasticity declines. The divergence of the scattered light intensity at a finite critical temperature implies that the elasticity approaches zero, or the compressibility becomes infinite, which is the typically observed behavior of a system at the point of instability. Thus, at the critical point, the polymer network offers no resistance at all to any form of deformation.\n\nThe rate of relaxation of density fluctuations will be rapid if the restoring force, which depends upon the network elasticity, is large—and if the friction between the network and the interstitial fluid is small. The theory suggests that the rate is directly proportional to the elasticity and inversely proportional to the frictional force. The friction in turn depends upon both the viscosity of the fluid and the average size of the pores contained within the polymer network.\n\nThus, if the elasticity is inferred from the measurements of the scattering intensity, and the viscosity is determined independently (via mechanical methods such as ultrasonic attenuation) measurement of the relaxation rate yields information on the pore size distribution contained within the polymer network, e.g. large fluctuations in polymer density near the critical point yield large density differentials with a corresponding bimodal distribution of porosity. The difference in average size between the smaller pores (in the highly dense regions) and the larger pores (in regions of lower average density) will therefore depend upon the degree of phase separation which is allowed to occur before such fluctuations become thermally arrested or \"frozen in\" at or near the critical point of the transition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57240870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57240870", "title": "Muonium chloride", "text": "Muonium chloride\n\nMuonium chloride is an inorganic compound composed of exotic muonium atoms and is a chloride (halide) chemical formula of MuCl. In 2001, scientists successfully synthesized muonium chloride. \n\nMuonium chloride can dissociate into chloride ions and positive muons.\n"}
{"id": "2629440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2629440", "title": "Natural material", "text": "Natural material\n\nA natural material is any product or physical matter that comes from plants, animals, or the ground. Minerals and the metals that can be extracted from them (without further modification) are also considered to belong into this category. Natural materials are used as building materials and clothing. Types include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3802508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3802508", "title": "Octol", "text": "Octol\n\nOctol is a melt-castable, high explosive mixture consisting of HMX and TNT in different weight proportions.\n\nTwo formulations are commonly used:\n\nGiven that HMX has a much higher detonation velocity than TNT (over 2,000 metres per second faster) and forms the main part of this explosive blend, the brisance characteristics of Octol can be inferred.\n\nThe applications of Octol are generally military; e.g., shaped charges and warheads used in guided missiles and submunitions. Octol is somewhat more expensive than RDX-based explosives, such as Composition B and Cyclotol. The advantage of Octol is that it significantly reduces the size and weight of the explosive charge required. These are important considerations where smart weapons such as guided missiles are concerned. A light (but effective) warhead means a superior power to weight ratio. This in turn results in a higher velocity missile with a longer range and shorter flight time. As a result, the target has less opportunity to recognise and evade the attack.\n\nOctol is also referred to as Oktol, particularly in Eastern Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13879995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13879995", "title": "Olya Melen", "text": "Olya Melen\n\nOlya Melen is a Ukrainian attorney and environmental activist. She was awarded the Goldman Environmental Prize in 2006 for her use of legal channels to halt the construction of the Danube-Black Sea Canal. The Danube Delta at the coast of the Black Sea was designated as a \"Wetland of International Importance\" under the Ramsar Convention and as a \"UNESCO World Heritage Site and Biosphere Reserve\".\n"}
{"id": "1936447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1936447", "title": "Paul George (environmentalist)", "text": "Paul George (environmentalist)\n\nPaul George is a Canadian environmentalist living in Gibsons, British Columbia. He is married to Adriane Carr, former leader of the Green Party of British Columbia, for which he ran in 1991, receiving 0.82% of the popular vote in the riding of Surrey-Newton.\n\nIn the late 1960s, after leaving the United States, Paul George lived and worked on Vancouver Island as a teacher, builder, and lead science teacher for the British Columbia provincial correspondence school program.\n\nHe cofounded the Western Canada Wilderness Committee, and founded ActionInTime, a society for public education about global climate change.\n\nIn 1999 he was the first recipient of the BC Spaces for Nature Wild Earth Award.\n\nIn 2006, he authored \"Big Trees, Not Big Stumps\", a history of the Western Canada Wilderness Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "509141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=509141", "title": "Photino", "text": "Photino\n\nA photino is a hypothetical subatomic particle, the fermion WIMP superpartner of the photon predicted by supersymmetry. It is an example of a gaugino. Even though no photino has ever been observed so far, it is one of the candidates for the lightest stable particle in the universe. It is proposed that photinos are produced by sources of ultra-high-energy cosmic rays.\n\nPhotinos have a lepton number 0, baryon number 0, and spin 1/2. With an R-parity of −1 it is a possible candidate for dark matter. It mixes with the superpartners of the Z boson (zino) and the neutral higgs (higgsino) to the neutralino.\n"}
{"id": "60874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60874", "title": "Photoluminescence", "text": "Photoluminescence\n\nPhotoluminescence (abbreviated as PL) is light emission from any form of matter after the absorption of photons (electromagnetic radiation). It is one of many forms of luminescence (light emission) and is initiated by photoexcitation (i.e. photons that excite electrons to a higher energy level in an atom), hence the prefix \"photo-\". Following excitation various relaxation processes typically occur in which other photons are re-radiated. Time periods between absorption and emission may vary: ranging from short femtosecond-regime for emission involving free-carrier plasma in inorganic semiconductors up to milliseconds for Phosphorescence processes in molecular systems; and under special circumstances delay of emission may even span to minutes or hours.\n\nObservation of photoluminescence at a certain energy can be viewed as an indication that an electron populated an excited state associated with this transition energy.\n\nWhile this is generally true in atoms and similar systems, correlations and other more complex phenomena also act as sources for photoluminescence in many-body systems such as semiconductors. A theoretical approach to handle this is given by the semiconductor luminescence equations.\n\nPhotoluminescence processes can be classified by various parameters such as the energy of the exciting photon with respect to the emission.\nResonant excitation describes a situation in which photons of a particular wavelength are absorbed and equivalent photons are very rapidly re-emitted. This is often referred to as resonance fluorescence. For materials in solution or in the gas phase, this process involves electrons but no significant internal energy transitions involving molecular features of the chemical substance between absorption and emission. In crystalline inorganic semiconductors where an electronic band structure is formed, secondary emission can be more complicated as events may contain both coherent contributions such as resonant Rayleigh scattering where a fixed phase relation with the driving light field is maintained (i.e. energetically elastic processes where no losses are involved), and incoherent contributions (or inelastic modes where some energy channels into an auxiliary loss mode),\n\nThe latter originate, e.g., from the radiative recombination of excitons, Coulomb-bound electron-hole pair states in solids. Resonance fluorescence may also show significant quantum optical correlations.\n\nMore processes may occur when a substance undergoes internal energy transitions before re-emitting the energy from the absorption event. Electrons change energy states by either resonantly gaining energy from absorption of a photon or losing energy by emitting photons. In chemistry-related disciplines, one often distinguishes between fluorescence and phosphorescence. The former is typically a fast process, yet some amount of the original energy is dissipated so that re-emitted light photons will have lower energy than did the absorbed excitation photons. The re-emitted photon in this case is said to be red shifted, referring to the reduced energy it carries following this loss (as the Jablonski diagram shows). For phosphorescence, electrons which absorbed photons, undergo intersystem crossing where they enter into a state with altered spin multiplicity (see term symbol), usually a triplet state. Once the excited electron is transferred into this triplet state, electron transition (relaxation) back to the lower singlet state energies is quantum mechanically forbidden, meaning that it happens much more slowly than other transitions. The result is a slow process of radiative transition back to the singlet state, sometimes lasting minutes or hours. This is the basis for \"glow in the dark\" substances.\n\nPhotoluminescence is an important technique for measuring the purity and crystalline quality of semiconductors such as GaN and InP and for quantification of the amount of disorder present in a system.\n\nTime-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) is a method where the sample is excited with a light pulse and then the decay in photoluminescence with respect to time is measured. This technique is useful for measuring the minority carrier lifetime of III-V semiconductors like gallium arsenide (GaAs).\n\nIn a typical PL experiment, a semiconductor is excited with a light-source that provides photons with an energy larger than the bandgap energy.\nThe incoming light excites a polarization that can be described with the semiconductor Bloch equations. Once the photons are absorbed, electrons and holes are formed with finite momenta formula_1 in the conduction and valence bands, respectively. The excitations then undergo energy and momentum relaxation towards the band gap minimum. Typical mechanisms are Coulomb scattering and the interaction with phonons. Finally, the electrons recombine with holes under emission of photons.\n\nIdeal, defect-free semiconductors are many-body systems where the interactions of charge-carriers and lattice vibrations have to be considered in addition to the light-matter coupling. In general, the PL properties are also extremely sensitive to internal electric fields and to the dielectric environment (such as in photonic crystals) which impose further degrees of complexity. A precise microscopic description is provided by the semiconductor luminescence equations.\n\nAn ideal, defect-free semiconductor quantum well structure is a useful model system to illustrate the fundamental processes in typical PL experiments. The discussion is based on results published in Klingshirn (2012) and Balkan (1998).\n\nThe fictive model structure for this discussion has two confined quantized electronic and two hole subbands, e, e and h, h, respectively.\nThe linear absorption spectrum of such a structure shows the exciton resonances of the first (e1h1) and the second quantum well subbands (e, h), as well as the absorption from the corresponding continuum states and from the barrier.\n\nIn general, three different excitation conditions are distinguished: resonant, quasi-resonant, and non-resonant. For the resonant excitation, the central energy of the laser corresponds to the lowest exciton resonance of the quantum well. No or only a negligible amount of the excess energy is injected to the carrier system. For these conditions, coherent processes contribute significantly to the spontaneous emission. The decay of polarization creates excitons directly. The detection of PL is challenging for resonant excitation as it is difficult to discriminate contributions from the excitation, i.e., stray-light and diffuse scattering from surface roughness. Thus, speckle and resonant Rayleigh-scattering are always superimposed to the incoherent emission.\n\nIn case of the non-resonant excitation, the structure is excited with some excess energy. This is the typical situation used in most PL experiments as the excitation energy can be discriminated using a spectrometer or an optical filter.\nOne has to distinguish between quasi-resonant excitation and barrier excitation.\n\nFor quasi-resonant conditions, the energy of the excitation is tuned above the ground state but still below the barrier absorption edge, for example, into the continuum of the first subband. The polarization decay for these conditions is much faster than for resonant excitation and coherent contributions to the quantum well emission are negligible. The initial temperature of the carrier system is significantly higher than the lattice temperature due to the surplus energy of the injected carriers. Finally, only the electron-hole plasma is initially created. It is then followed by the formation of excitons.\n\nIn case of barrier excitation, the initial carrier distribution in the quantum well strongly depends on the carrier scattering between barrier and the well.\n\nInitially, the laser light induces coherent polarization in the sample, i.e., the transitions between electron and hole states oscillate with the laser frequency and a fixed phase. The polarization dephases typically on a sub-100 fs time-scale in case of nonresonant excitation due to ultra-fast Coulomb- and phonon-scattering.\n\nThe dephasing of the polarization leads to creation of populations of electrons and holes in the conduction and the valence bands, respectively. \nThe lifetime of the carrier populations is rather long, limited by radiative and non-radiative recombination such as Auger recombination.\nDuring this lifetime a fraction of electrons and holes may form excitons, this topic is still controversially discussed in the literature.\nThe formation rate depends on the experimental conditions such as lattice temperature, excitation density, as well as on the general material parameters, e.g., the strength of the Coulomb-interaction or the exciton binding energy.\n\nThe characteristic time-scales are in the range of hundreds of picoseconds in GaAs; they appear to be much shorter in wide-gap semiconductors.\n\nDirectly after the excitation with short (femtosecond) pulses and the quasi-instantaneous decay of the polarization, the carrier distribution is mainly determined by the spectral width of the excitation, e.g., a laser pulse. The distribution is thus highly non-thermal and resembles a Gaussian distribution, centered at a finite momentum. In the first hundreds of femtoseconds, the carriers are scattered by phonons, or at elevated carrier densities via Coulomb-interaction. The carrier system successively relaxes to the Fermi–Dirac distribution typically within the first picosecond. Finally, the carrier system cools down under the emission of phonons. This can take up to several nanoseconds, depending on the material system, the lattice temperature, and the excitation conditions such as the surplus energy.\n\nInitially, the carrier temperature decreases fast via emission of optical phonons. This is quite efficient due to the comparatively large energy associated with optical phonons, (36meV or 420K in GaAs) and their rather flat dispersion, allowing for a wide range of scattering processes under conservation of energy and momentum. Once the carrier temperature decreases below the value corresponding to the optical phonon energy, acoustic phonons dominate the relaxation. Here, cooling is less efficient due their dispersion and small energies and the temperature decreases much slower beyond the first tens of picoseconds. At elevated excitation densities, the carrier cooling is further inhibited by the so-called hot-phonon effect. The relaxation of a large number of hot carriers leads to a high generation rate of optical phonons which exceeds the decay rate into acoustic phonons. This creates a non-equilibrium \"over-population\" of optical phonons and thus causes their increased reabsorption by the charge-carriers significantly suppressing any cooling. Thus, a system cools slower, the higher the carrier density is.\n\nThe emission directly after the excitation is spectrally very broad, yet still centered in the vicinity of the strongest exciton resonance. \nAs the carrier distribution relaxes and cools, the width of the PL peak decreases and the emission energy shifts to match the ground state of the exciton (such as an electron) for ideal samples without disorder. The PL spectrum approaches its quasi-steady-state shape defined by the distribution of electrons and holes. Increasing the excitation density will change the emission spectra. They are dominated by the excitonic ground state for low densities. Additional peaks from higher subband transitions appear as the carrier density or lattice temperature are increased as these states get more and more populated. Also, the width of the main PL peak increases significantly with rising excitation due to excitation-induced dephasing and the emission peak experiences a small shift in energy due to the Coulomb-renormalization and phase-filling.\n\nIn general, both exciton populations and plasma, uncorrelated electrons and holes, can act as sources for photoluminescence as described in the semiconductor-luminescence equations. Both yield very similar spectral features which are difficult to distinguish; their emission dynamics, however, vary significantly. The decay of excitons yields a single-exponential decay function since the probability of their radiative recombination does not depend on the carrier density. The probability of spontaneous emission for uncorrelated electrons and holes, is approximately proportional to the product of electron and hole populations eventually leading to a non-single-exponential decay described by a hyperbolic function.\n\nReal material systems always incorporate disorder. Examples are structural defects in the lattice or disorder due to variations of the chemical composition. Their treatment is extremely challenging for microscopic theories due to the lack of detailed knowledge about perturbations of the ideal structure. Thus, the influence of the extrinsic effects on the PL is usually addressed phenomenologically. In experiments, disorder can lead to localization of carriers and hence drastically increase the photoluminescence life times as localized carriers cannot as easily find nonradiative recombination centers as can free ones.\n\nResearchers from the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) have studied the photoinduced entropy (i.e. thermodynamic disorder) of InGaN/GaN p-i-n double-heterostructure and AlGaN nanowires using temperature-dependent photoluminescence. They defined the photoinduced entropy as a thermodynamic quantity that represents the unavailability of a system's energy for conversion into useful work due to carrier recombination and photon emission. They have also related the change in entropy generation to the change in photocarrier dynamics in the nanowire active regions using results from time-resolved photoluminescence study. They hypothesized that the amount of generated disorder in the InGaN layers eventually increases as the temperature approaches room temperature because of the thermal activation of surface states, while an insignificant increase was observed in AlGaN nanowires, indicating lower degrees of disorder-induced uncertainty in the wider bandgap semiconductor. To study the photoinduced entropy, the scientists have developed a mathematical model that considers the net energy exchange resulting from photoexcitation and photoluminescence.\n\nIn phosphor thermometry, the temperature dependence of the photoluminescence process is exploited to measure temperature.\n\nPhotoluminescence spectroscopy is a widely used technique for characterisation of the optical and electronic properties of semiconductors and molecules. In chemistry, it is more often referred to as fluorescence spectroscopy, but the instrumentation is the same. The relaxation processes can be studied using Time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopy to find the decay lifetime of the photoluminescence. These techniques can be combined with microscopy, to map the intensity (Confocal microscopy) or the lifetime (Fluorescence-lifetime imaging microscopy) of the photoluminescence across a sample (e.g. a semiconducting wafer, or a biological sample that has been marked with fluorescent molecules).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42342075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42342075", "title": "Plot sampling", "text": "Plot sampling\n\nIn ecology, plot sampling is a method of abundance estimation in which plots are selected from within a survey region and sampled; population estimates can then be made using the Horvitz–Thompson estimator. Generally plot sampling is a useful method if it can be assumed that each survey will identify all of the animals in the sampled area, and that the animals will be distributed uniformly and independently. If the entire survey region is covered in this manner, rather than a subset of plots that are then used for extrapolation, this is considered a census rather than a plot sampling approach. \n\n"}
{"id": "49544479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49544479", "title": "REScoop Vlaanderen", "text": "REScoop Vlaanderen\n\nREScoop Vlaanderen is the energy cooperative for renewable energy in Flanders, Belgium.\n\nIt was created in 2011 on the initiative of the Flemish energy cooperative Ecopower. \nREScoop Vlaanderen is a member of the European group of cooperatives for renewable energy, REScoop.eu.\n\nRESCoop stands for Renewable Energy Sources Cooperatives. \nA co-operative (also known as co-op, cooperative or coop) is an autonomous association of persons united voluntary to meet their common economic, social, and cultural needs and aspirations through a jointly owned and democratically controlled business.\n\nThe following energy cooperatives are member of RESCoop Vlaanderen: \n"}
{"id": "578008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=578008", "title": "Rocky Flats Plant", "text": "Rocky Flats Plant\n\nThe Rocky Flats Plant was a nuclear weapons production facility in the western United States, near Denver, Colorado. Operated from 1952 to 1992, it was under the control of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission (AEC), succeeded by the Department of Energy (DOE) in 1977.\n\nWeapons production was temporarily halted in 1989 after EPA and FBI agents raided the facility. Operators of the plant later pleaded guilty to criminal violations of environmental law. At the time, the fine was one of the largest penalties ever in an environmental law case.\n\nCleanup began in the early 1990s, and the site achieved regulatory closure in 2006. The cleanup effort decommissioned and demolished over 800 structures; removed over 21 tons of weapons-grade material; removed over 1.3 million cubic meters of waste; and treated more than 16 million gallons of water. Four groundwater treatment systems were also constructed. Today, the Rocky Flats Plant is gone. The site of the former facility consists of two distinct areas: (1) the \"Central Operable Unit\" (including the former industrial area), which remains off-limits to the public as a CERCLA \"Superfund\" site, owned and managed by the U.S. Department of Energy, and (2) the Rocky Flats National Wildlife Refuge, owned and managed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The Refuge (also known as the \"Peripheral Operable Unit\") was determined to be suitable for unrestricted use. Every five years, the U.S. Department of Energy, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment review environmental data and other information to assess whether the remedy is functioning as intended. The latest Five-Year Review for the site, released in August 2017, concluded the site remedy is protective of human health and the environment. \n\nFollowing World War II, the United States increased production of nuclear weapons. The AEC chose the Dow Chemical Company to manage the bomb production facility. A site about northwest of Denver on a windy plateau called Rocky Flats was chosen for the facility. On July 10, 1951, ground was broken on the first building in the facility. Contemporary news reports stated that the site would not be used to produce nuclear bombs, but might be used to produce uranium and plutonium components for use in nuclear weapons. \n\nIn 1953, the plant began production of bomb components, manufacturing plutonium pits which were used at the Pantex plant in Amarillo, Texas to assemble fission weapons and the primary stages of thermonuclear weapons. By 1957, the plant had expanded to 27 buildings.\n\nOn September 11, 1957, a plutonium fire occurred in one of the gloveboxes used to handle radioactive materials, igniting the combustible rubber gloves and plexiglas windows of the box. Metallic plutonium is a fire hazard and pyrophoric; under the right conditions it may ignite in air at room temperature. The accident resulted in the contamination of Building 771, the release of plutonium into the atmosphere, and caused $818,600 in damage. An incinerator for plutonium-contaminated waste was installed in Building 771 in 1958.\n\nBarrels of radioactive waste were found to be leaking into an open field in 1959. This was not made publicly known until 1970 when wind-borne particles were detected in Denver.\n\nThroughout the 1960s, the plant continued to enlarge and add buildings. The 1960s also brought more contamination to the site. In 1967, of plutonium-contaminated lubricants and solvents were stored on Pad 903. A large number of them were found to be leaking, and low-level contaminated soil was becoming wind-borne from this area. This pad was covered with gravel and paved over with asphalt in 1969.\n\nMay 11, 1969 saw a major fire in a glovebox in Building 776/777. This was the costliest industrial accident ever to occur in the United States up to that time. Cleanup from the accident took two years and led to safety upgrades on the site, including fire sprinkler systems and firewalls.\n\nIn order to reduce the danger of public contamination and to create a security area around the plant following protests, the United States Congress authorized the purchase of a buffer zone around the plant in 1972. In 1973, nearby Walnut Creek and the Great Western Reservoir were found to have elevated tritium levels. The tritium was determined to have been released from contaminated materials shipped to Rocky Flats from the Lawrence Livermore Laboratory. Discovery of the contamination by the Colorado Department of Health led to investigations by the AEC and United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). As a result of the investigation, several mitigation efforts were put in place to prevent further contamination. Some of the elements included channeling of wastewater runoff to three dams for testing before release into the water system and construction of a reverse osmosis facility to clean up wastewater.\n\nThe next year, elevated plutonium levels were found in the topsoil near the now covered Pad 903. An additional 4,500 acres (18 km²) of buffer zone were purchased.\n\n1975 saw Rockwell International replacing Dow Chemical as the contractor for the site. This year also saw local landowners suing for property contamination caused by the plant.\n\nIn 1978, 60 protesters belonging to the Rocky Flats Truth Force, or Satyagraha Affinity Group, based in Boulder, Colorado, were arrested for trespassing at Rocky Flats, and were brought to trial before Judge Kim Goldberger. Dr. John Candler Cobb, Professor of Preventive Medicine at the University of Colorado Medical Center, testified that the most significant danger of radioactive contamination came from the 1967 incident in which oil barrels containing plutonium leaked of oil into sand under the barrels, which was then blown by strong winds as far away as Denver. Radioactivity of the sand at the spill site was measured at 30 million disintegrations per minute per gram (about 220 ppm plutonium in the sand by weight), 15 million times higher than the state standard of two disintegrations per minute.\n\nDr. Carl Johnson, Jefferson County health director from 1973 to 1981, directed numerous studies on contamination levels and health risks the plant posed to public health. Based on his conclusions, Johnson opposed housing development near Rocky Flats. He was fired. Later studies confirmed many of his findings.\n\nOn April 28, 1979, a few weeks after the Three Mile Island accident, a crowd of close to 15,000 protesters assembled at a nearby site. Singers Jackson Browne and Bonnie Raitt took the stage along with various speakers. The following day, 286 protesters including Daniel Ellsberg were arrested for civil disobedience/trespassing on the Rocky Flats facility.\n\n\"Dark Circle\" is a 1982 American documentary film that focuses on the Rocky Flats Plant and its plutonium contamination of the area's environment. The film won the Grand Prize for documentary at the Sundance Film Festival and received a national Emmy Award for \"Outstanding individual achievement in news and documentary\".\n\nRocky Flats became a focus of protest by peace activists throughout the 1980s. In 1983, a demonstration was organized that brought together 17,000 people who joined hands in an encirclement around the perimeter of the plant.\n\nA perimeter security zone was installed around the facility in 1983 and was upgraded with remote detection abilities in 1985. Also in 1983, the first radioactive waste was processed through the aqueous recovery system, creating a plutonium button.\n\nA celebration of 250,000 continuous safe hours by the employees at Rocky Flats happened in 1985. The same year, Rockwell received Industrial Research Magazine's IR-100 award for a process to remove actinide contamination from wastewater at the plant. The next year, the site received a National Safety Council Award of Honor for outstanding safety performance.\n\nOn August 10, 1987, 320 demonstrators were arrested after they tried to force a one-day shutdown of the Rocky Flats nuclear weapons plant.\n\nIn 1988, a Department of Energy (DOE) safety evaluation resulted in a report that was critical of safety measures at the plant. The EPA fined the plant for polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) leaks from a transformer. A solid waste form, called pondcrete, was found not to have cured properly and was leaking from containers. A boxcar of transuranic waste from the site was refused entry into Idaho and returned to the plant. Plans to potentially close the plant were released.\n\nIn 1989 an employee left a faucet running, resulting in chromic acid being released into the sanitary water system. The Colorado Department of Health and the EPA both posted full-time personnel at the plant to monitor safety. Plutonium production was suspended due to safety violations.\n\nIn August 1989, an estimated 3,500 people turned out for a demonstration at Rocky Flats.\n\nIn 1987, plant insiders started to covertly inform the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) about the unsafe conditions. In December 1988, the FBI commenced clandestine flights of light aircraft over the area and confirmed via infrared video recordings that the \"outdated and unpermitted\" Building 771 incinerator was apparently being used late into the night. After several months of collecting evidence both from workers and via direct measurement, the FBI informed the DOE on June 6, 1989 that they wanted to meet to discuss a potential terrorist threat.\n\nDubbed \"Operation Desert Glow\", the raid, sponsored by the United States Department of Justice (DOJ), began at 9 a.m. on June 6, 1989. After the FBI got past the DOE's heavily armed, authorized to shoot-to-kill security—whose armament included surface-to-air missiles—they served the search warrant to Dominick Sanchini, Rockwell International's manager of Rocky Flats. (Coincidentally, Sanchini died the next year in Boulder of cancer.). The FBI discovered numerous violations of federal anti-pollution laws, including limited contamination of water and soil. In 1992, Rockwell International was charged with environmental crimes including violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and the Clean Water Act. Rockwell pleaded guilty and paid an $18.5 million fine. This was the largest fine for an environmental crime to that date.\n\nAfter the June 1989 FBI raid, federal authorities used the subsequent grand jury investigation to gather evidence of wrongdoing and then sealed the record. In October 2006, DOE announced completion of the Rocky Flats cleanup without this information being available.\n\nThe FBI raid led to the formation of Colorado's first special grand jury in 1989, the juried testimony of 110 witnesses, reviews of 2,000 exhibits, and ultimately a 1992 plea agreement in which Rockwell admitted to 10 federal environmental crimes and agreed to pay $18.5 million in fines out of its own funds. This amount was less than the company had been paid in bonuses for running the plant as determined by the Government Accounting Office (GAO), and yet was also by far the highest hazardous-waste fine ever; four times larger than the previous record. Due to indemnification of nuclear contractors, without some form of settlement being arrived at between the U.S. Justice Department and Rockwell, the cost of paying any civil penalties would ultimately have been borne by U.S. taxpayers. While any criminal penalties allotted to Rockwell would not have been covered, for its part Rockwell claimed that the Department of Energy had specifically exempted them from most environmental laws, including hazardous waste.\n\nRegardless, and as forewarned by the prosecuting U.S. Attorney, Ken Fimberg/Scott, the Department of Justice's stated findings and plea agreement with Rockwell were heavily contested by its own, 23-member special grand jury. Press leaks on both sides—members of the DOJ and the grand jury—occurred in violation of secrecy regarding grand jury information, a federal crime punishable by a prison sentence. The public contest led to U.S. Congressional oversight committee hearings chaired by Congressman Howard Wolpe, which issued subpoenas to DOJ principals despite several instances of DOJ's refusal to comply. The hearings, whose findings include that the Justice Department had \"bargained away the truth\", ultimately still did not fully reveal to the public the special grand jury's report, which remains sealed by the DOJ courts.\n\nThe special grand jury report was nonetheless leaked to \"Westword\". According to its subsequent publications, the Rocky Flats special grand jury had compiled indictments charging three DOE officials and five Rockwell employees with environmental crimes. The grand jury also wrote a report, intended for the public's consumption per their charter, lambasting the conduct of DOE and Rocky Flats contractors for \"engaging in a continuing campaign of distraction, deception and dishonesty\" and noted that Rocky Flats, for many years, had discharged pollutants, hazardous materials and radioactive matter into nearby creeks and Broomfield's and Westminster's water supplies.\n\nThe DOE itself, in a study released in December of the year prior to the FBI raid, had called Rocky Flats' ground water the single greatest environmental hazard at any of its nuclear facilities.\n\nCourt records from the grand jury proceeding on Rocky Flats have been sealed for a number of years. The Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, which govern federal grand jury proceedings, explicitly require grand jury proceedings to be kept secret unless otherwise provided by the Rules. Rocky Flats' secret grand jury proceedings were not unique.\n\nHowever, some activists dispute the reasons for records confidentiality: Dr. LeRoy Moore, a Boulder scientist; retired FBI Special Agent Jon Lipsky, who led the FBI's raid of the Rocky Flats plant to investigate illegal plutonium burning and other environmental crimes; and Wes McKinley, who was the foreman of the grand jury investigation into the operations at Rocky Flats (and served several terms as Colorado State Representative).\n\nFormer grand jury foreman McKinley chronicles his experiences in the 2004 book he co-authored with attorney Caron Balkany, \"The Ambushed Grand Jury\", which begins with an open letter to the U.S. Congress from Special Agent Lipsky:\n\nRockwell International was replaced by EG&G as primary contractor for the Rocky Flats plant. EG&G began an aggressive work safety and cleanup plan for the site that included construction of a system to remove contamination from the groundwater of the site. The \"Sierra Club vs. Rockwell\" case was decided in favor of the Sierra Club. The ruling directed Rocky Flats to manage plutonium residues as hazardous waste.\n\nIn 1991, an interagency agreement between DOE, the Colorado Department of Health, and the EPA outlined multiyear schedules for environmental restoration studies and remediation activities. DOE released a report that advocated downsizing the plant's production into a more streamlined facility. Due to the fall of the Soviet Union, production of most of the systems at Rocky Flats was no longer needed, leaving only the W88 warhead primary stages.\n\nIn 1992, due to an order by President G.H.W. Bush, production of submarine-based missiles using the W88 trigger was discontinued, leading to the layoff of 4,500 employees at the plant; 4,000 others were retained for long-term cleanup of the facility. The Rocky Flats Plant Transition Plan outlined the environmental restoration process. The DOE announced that of plutonium lined the exhaust ductwork in six buildings on the site.\n\nStarting in 1993, weapons-grade plutonium began to be shipped to the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Los Alamos National Laboratory, and the Savannah River Site.\n\nIn 1994 the site was renamed the Rocky Flats Environmental Technology Site, reflecting the changed nature of the site from weapon production to environmental cleanup and restoration. The cleanup effort was contracted to the Kaiser-Hill Company, which proposed the release of of the buffer zone for public access.\n\nIn 1998, the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment's Cancer Registry conducted an independent study of cancer rates in areas around the Rocky Flats Site. Data showed no pattern of increased cancers tied to Rocky Flats.\n\nThroughout the remainder of the 1990s and into the 2000s, cleanup of contaminated sites and dismantling of contaminated buildings continued with the waste materials being shipped to the Nevada Test Site, the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant in New Mexico, and the Envirocare company facility in Utah, which is now EnergySolutions.\n\nIn 2001, Congress passed the Rocky Flats National Wildlife Refuge Act. In July 2007, the U.S. Department of Energy transferred nearly of land on the Rocky Flats site to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to establish the Rocky Flats National Wildlife Refuge. Surveys of the site reveal 630 species of vascular plants, 76% of which are native. Herds of elk are commonly seen on the site. However, the DOE retained the central area of the site, the Central Operable Unit.\n\nThe last contaminated building was removed and the last weapons-grade plutonium was shipped out in 2003, ending the cleanup based on a modified cleanup agreement. The modified agreement required a higher level of cleanup in the first of soil in exchange for not having to remove any contamination below that point unless it posed a chance of migrating to the surface or contaminating the groundwater. About half of the 800 buildings previously existing on the site had been dismantled by early December 2004.\n\nThe site is contaminated with residual plutonium due to several industrial fires that occurred on the site and other inadvertent releases caused by wind at a waste storage area. The other major contaminant is carbon tetrachloride (CCl). Both of these substances affected areas adjacent to the site. In addition, there were small releases of beryllium and tritium, as well as dioxin from incineration.\n\nCleanup was declared complete on October 13, 2005. About of the original site, the former industrial area, remains under U.S. DOE Office of Legacy Management control for ongoing environmental monitoring and remediation. On March 14, 2007, DOE, EPA, and CDPHE entered into the Rocky Flats Legacy Management Agreement (RFLMA). The agreement establishes the regulatory framework for implementing the final remedy for the Rocky Flats site and ensuring the protection of human health and the environment.\n\nIn September 2010, after a 20-year legal battle, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed a $926 million award in a class-action lawsuit against Dow Chemical and Rockwell International. The three-judge panel said that the jury reached its decision on faulty instructions that incorrectly stated the law. The appeals court tossed the jury verdict and sent the case back to the District Court. According to the Appellate Court, the owners of 12,000 properties in the class-action area had not proved their properties were damaged or that they suffered bodily injury from plutonium that blew onto their properties.\n\nIn response to historic and ongoing reports of health issues by people who live and lived near Rocky Flats, an online health survey was launched in May 2016 by Metropolitan State University, Rocky Flats Downwinders, and other local universities and health agencies to survey thousands of Coloradans who lived east of the Rocky Flats plant while it was operational.\n\nOn May 19, 2016, a $375 million settlement was reached over claims by more than 15,000 nearby homeowners that plutonium releases from the plant risked their health and devalued their property. This settlement ended a 26-year legal battle between residents and the two corporations that ran the Rocky Flats Plant, Dow Chemical and Rockwell International, for the Department of Energy.\n\nJune 2014 marked a quarter century since the historic FBI and EPA raid of the Rocky Flats plant. A 3-day weekend of events from Friday, June 6 through Sunday, June 8 took place at the Arvada Center for the Arts, \"Rocky Flats Then and Now: 25 Years After the Raid\". Panel discussions covered various aspects of the Rocky Flats raid and its aftermath. On display were historical photographs and artifacts, as well as Rocky Flats-inspired art.\n\nIn 2016, the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment's Cancer Registry completed a cancer incidence study that looked at the incidence of reported cancers in areas around Rocky Flats from 1990 to 2014. This study followed-up on and was modeled after CDPHE's original Rocky Flats cancer incidence study, which was completed in 1998. Ten cancers specifically linked to plutonium exposure and other cancers of concern to a Health Advisory Panel were assessed in 1998, and again in 2016. The study found \"the incidence of all cancers-combined for both adults and children was no different in the communities surrounding Rocky Flats than would be expected based on cancer rates in the remainder of the Denver Metro area for 1990 to 2014.\" \n\nIn 2017, the CDPHE Cancer Registry completed a supplement to this study that specifically looked at the incidence of thyroid and rare cancers in neighborhoods around Rocky Flats. Cancer incidence data showed \"no evidence of higher than expected frequencies of thyroid cancer\" and \"the incidence of 'rare' cancer was not higher than expected compared to the remainder of the Denver Metro area.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50881727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50881727", "title": "Section 1603 grants", "text": "Section 1603 grants\n\nSection 1603 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act (ARRTA) was a green energy subsidy program created by Congress and signed into law as a part of the 2009 stimulus package. The program was a system of cash grants that was implemented by the U.S. Treasury Department's \"Payments for Specified Energy Projects in Lieu of Tax Credits.\"\n\nThe purpose of payments made from the Section 1603 program were to reimburse grant recipients for a portion of the cost they incurred to install certain types of energy systems at business locations. Payments were made after the energy systems were installed.\n\nThe types of energy systems that qualified for the program were biomass, combined heat and power, fuel cells, geothermal, incremental hydropower, landfill gas, marine hydrokinetic, microturbine, municipal solid waste, solar and wind.\n\nAs of April 2016, the program funded 104,733 projects. Total cumulative funding for the program stood at $24.9 billion.\n\nThe Treasury Department no longer accepts applications. The program started in 2009 and ended in 2012. However, Congress has continued to investigate the program as recently as June 2016.\n\nPrimary oversight activity over the program has occurred at the Senate Finance Committee. On June 9, 2016, Chairman Senator Orrin Hatch requested from Department of Treasury, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) details about how companies use Section 1603 grants and tax credits. In March 2016, Hatch asked the IRS and Treasury Department to demonstrate that the agencies use safeguards and coordinate with each other when reviewing applications for Section 1603 grants.\n\nIn 2013, an investigation by TIGTA found that the IRS had did not have a system to track the accounts of taxpayers receiving Section 1603 grants. As a consequence, grant recipients could amend back tax returns to claim a tax credit in addition to receiving the grant.\n\n"}
{"id": "16735326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16735326", "title": "Stave Puzzles", "text": "Stave Puzzles\n\nStave Puzzles is an American jigsaw puzzle company located in Norwich, Vermont. The company was started in 1974 by Steve Richardson and Dave Tibbetts, the name being a combination of their two first names. They manufacture hand cut jigsaw puzzles made from cherry-backed, 5-layered, wood. Stave produces several different puzzles types ranging from traditional puzzles, teaser puzzles which can have many open areas within the puzzles, trick puzzles in which the puzzles can be put together in two or more ways of which only one is correct. They also create three-dimensional puzzles, limited edition puzzles and complete custom puzzles. Each puzzle is provided in a green and blue rectangular box and does not include a picture of the completed puzzle.\n\nStave Puzzles is the largest hand-cut jigsaw puzzle company in the USA, but faces growing competition from laser-cutting companies like Liberty Puzzles and Artifact Puzzles that produce similar products at roughly a tenth of the cost.\n\nSteve Richardson moved from New Jersey to Vermont in 1969 and started a game design business with Dave Tibbetts. In 1974, Richardson was offered US$300 to make a wooden jigsaw puzzle. Richardson and Tibbetts founded Stave Puzzles in the same year, forming the name from a combination of their first names. In 1976, Richardson bought out Tibbetts' share of the company for US$1 and a jigsaw. He built a small shop behind his garage and hired his first employee. \n\nIn 1983, Stave introduced their first 2-Way Trick Puzzle, called Go Fish. In 1989, Stave Puzzles released an April Fools' Day joke puzzle called \"5 Easy Pieces\", which had no solution. The puzzles first thirty buyers were refunded their purchase price. Owners of Stave Puzzles include Queen Elizabeth II, Barbara Bush, Stephen King, Julie Andrews, Tom Peters, and Bill Gates. In 1990, Stave Puzzles was listed in the Guinness Book of World Records as having the most expensive jigsaw puzzle.Stave Puzzles was named by Tom Peters as the 1991 Product of the Year.\n\nStave produces traditional rectangular puzzles that range in size from (75 pieces) to (1000 pieces). For every hundred pieces, five custom pieces (such as dates, names, or silhouettes) can be cut into the puzzle.\n\nStave's Teaser puzzles are designed in such a way as to make assembly of the jigsaw puzzle harder than in a traditional jigsaw creation. Stave commissions original artwork for these puzzles. Illustrators and Stave craftspeople work together on the design to reduce the number of visual cues that would normally make it easy to put together a traditional puzzle.\n\nA typical Teaser design has some areas that are similar to traditional puzzles, making it easier to assemble some of the puzzle. However, in the center of the puzzle, or in other separate areas, holes are left into which many pieces have to fit. These pieces may be silhouettes of shapes that are representative of objects, people, animals, etc. It's not apparent how they fit together in the holes of the puzzle until they are played with and studied.\n\nThe difficult rating system for Teasers is measured on a scale of one to four swords, with four swords being the most difficult.\nSteve Richardson earned the name Chief Tormentor for inventing the Trick puzzle, a puzzle genre in which some pieces fit in two or more different places, but only one of the solutions is considered correct. The object of a Trick puzzle is detailed on a small block of wood that accompanies Trick puzzles.\n\nAn example of a Stave Trick puzzle is \"Champ\", which is made up of 44 blue pieces and fits together 32 different ways, only one of which is correct where the serpent eats its own tail. The difficulty rating system for Trick puzzles is measured on a scale of one to five lightning bolts, with five being the most difficult. Teaser and Trick puzzles have been combined together in puzzles such as \"Palace of Pranks\".\n\nStave Limited Edition puzzles are produced from custom commissioned artwork and sold in a limited quantity. A typical limited edition has included only 50 units, although some runs have included as many as 100 units.\n\nThe four main types of limited edition puzzles include: Double Deckers; Riddle; Mystery Story; and Trick. Some of the limited edition puzzles are hand painted (as opposed to a print affixed to the wood).\n\nIn general, the limited editions also include items that fit the theme and help guide the player through the puzzle and additional games. For example, the Limited Edition Trick Puzzle \"Time Traveler\" comes with several hand crafted booklets to link the puzzle to the time-travel theme underlying the puzzle. The theme of the puzzle is major events (cultural, historical, scientific discoveries, etc.) from 1000 CE to 2000 CE. The booklets guide you through untangling a set of chronological mishaps caused by an evildoer.\n\nDouble deckers: Double decker puzzles are made up of multiple layers that sit on top of one another. Irregular edges and dropouts highlight the imagery in interesting ways. Some double decker puzzles include very simple tricks—swappable image areas. For example, the Snow White limited edition allows you to swap the Evil Queen and Snow White in the mirror.\n\nRiddle puzzles: Riddle puzzles are accompanied by a book of riddles, word games, and other surprises linked to the puzzle. For example, figural pieces in the puzzle might form a rebus that must be solved.\n\nMystery story: Each puzzle is accompanied by a complete mystery novel. However, you do not learn the ending of the mystery until you send in your answer to Stave's \"mystery hot line.\" For example, the limited edition Hexed has artwork by Andrea Farnham and a novel by Susan Stofflet. The puzzle comes in sections enclosed in velvet bags that you do in pieces as you read and solve parts of the mystery.\n\nTrick: The limited edition trick puzzles are similar in general challenge types to the other trick puzzles sold by Stave. The main difference is greater theming and integration. Taking Time Traveler as an example, the entire puzzle has a theme, and solving the tricks and re-arranging the pieces is linked to a story and learning about history. Other puzzles such as Knight at Stavely Castle include 3D pop-ups such as an entire castle façade that goes together multiple ways and a 3D sword that you need to remove from a stone. These trick puzzles are thus more intense than the generally available trick puzzles because of the themed linking between the puzzle and accompanying materials.\n\nList of Limited Editions and statuses\n\nSome of the Limited Editions which have been released by Stave include:\n\nCustom puzzles are full custom work designed in conjunction with the crafters at Stave. The efforts can range from the \"simple\", such as a wedding picture made into a puzzle, to complex, completely commissioned artwork and carefully designed cutting styles.\n\n"}
{"id": "1792340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1792340", "title": "Stishovite", "text": "Stishovite\n\nStishovite is an extremely hard, dense tetragonal form (polymorph) of silicon dioxide. It is very rare on the Earth's surface, however, it may be a predominant form of silicon dioxide in the Earth, especially in the lower mantle.\n\nStishovite was named after Sergey M. Stishov, a Russian high-pressure physicist who first synthesized the mineral in 1961. It was discovered in Meteor Crater in 1962 by Edward C. T. Chao.\n\nUnlike other silica polymorphs, the crystal structure of stishovite resembles that of rutile (TiO). The silicon in stishovite adopts an octahedral coordination geometry, being bound to six oxides. Similarly, the oxides are three-connected, unlike low-pressure forms of SiO. In most silicates, silicon is tetrahedral, being bound to four oxides. It was long considered the hardest known oxide (~30 GPa Vickers); however, boron suboxide has been discovered in 2002 to be much harder. At normal temperature and pressure, stishovite is metastable.\n\nStishovite can be separated from quartz by applying hydrogen fluoride (HF); unlike quartz, stishovite will not react.\n\nLarge natural crystals of stishovite are extremely rare and are usually found as clasts of 1 to 2 mm in length. When found, they can be difficult to distinguish from regular quartz without laboratory analysis. It has a vitreous luster, is transparent (or translucent), and is extremely hard. Stishovite usually sits as small rounded gravels in a matrix of other minerals.\n\nUntil recently, the only known occurrences of stishovite in nature formed at the very high shock pressures (>100 kbar, or 10 GPa) and temperatures (> 1200 °C) present during hypervelocity meteorite impact into quartz-bearing rock. Minute amounts of stishovite have been found within diamonds, and post-stishovite phases were identified within ultra-high-pressure mantle rocks. Stishovite may also be synthesized by duplicating these conditions in the laboratory, either isostatically or through shock (see shocked quartz).\nAt 4.287 g/cm it is second densest polymorph of silica, after seifertite. It has tetragonal crystal symmetry, P4/mnm, No. 136, Pearson symbol tP6.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60920", "title": "Tetrahydrocannabinol", "text": "Tetrahydrocannabinol\n\nTetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is one of at least 113 cannabinoids identified in cannabis. THC is the principal psychoactive constituent of cannabis. With chemical name (−)-\"trans\"-Δ⁹-tetrahydrocannabinol, the term \"THC\" also refers to cannabinoid isomers.\n\nLike most pharmacologically-active secondary metabolites of plants, THC is a \"lipid\" found in cannabis, assumed to be involved in the plant's self-defense, putatively against insect predation, ultraviolet light, and environmental stress.\n\nTHC, along with its double bond isomers and their stereoisomers, is one of only three cannabinoids scheduled by the UN Convention on Psychotropic Substances (the other two are dimethylheptylpyran and parahexyl). It was listed under Schedule I in 1971, but reclassified to Schedule II in 1991 following a recommendation from the WHO. Based on subsequent studies, the WHO has recommended the reclassification to the less-stringent Schedule III. Cannabis as a plant is scheduled by the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs (Schedule I and IV). It is specifically still listed under Schedule I by US federal law under the Controlled Substances Act for having \"no accepted medical use\" and \"lack of accepted safety\". However, Dronabinol is a synthetic form of THC approved by the FDA as an appetite stimulant for people with AIDS and antiemetic for people receiving chemotherapy. The pharmaceutical formulation dronabinol is an oily resin provided in capsules available by prescription in the United States, Canada, Germany, and New Zealand.\n\nTHC is an active ingredient in Nabiximols, a specific extract of \"Cannabis\" that was approved as a botanical drug in the United Kingdom in 2010 as a mouth spray for people with multiple sclerosis to alleviate neuropathic pain, spasticity, overactive bladder, and other symptoms. Nabiximols (as Sativex) is available as a prescription drug in Canada.\n\nThe actions of THC result from its partial agonist activity at the cannabinoid receptor CB (K = 10 nM), located mainly in the central nervous system, and the CB receptor (K = 24 nM), mainly expressed in cells of the immune system. The psychoactive effects of THC are primarily mediated by the activation of cannabinoid receptors, which result in a decrease in the concentration of the second messenger molecule cAMP through inhibition of adenylate cyclase.\n\nThe presence of these specialized cannabinoid receptors in the brain led researchers to the discovery of endocannabinoids, such as anandamide and 2-arachidonoyl glyceride (2-AG). THC targets receptors in a manner far less selective than endocannabinoid molecules released during retrograde signaling, as the drug has a relatively low cannabinoid receptor efficacy and affinity. In populations of low cannabinoid receptor density, THC may act to antagonize endogenous agonists that possess greater receptor efficacy. THC is a lipophilic molecule and may bind non-specifically to a variety of entities in the brain and body, such as adipose tissue (fat).\n\nTHC, similarly to cannabidiol, albeit less potently, is a positive allosteric modulator of the μ- and δ-opioid receptors.\n\nDue to its partial agonistic activity, THC appears to result in greater downregulation of cannabinoid receptors than endocannabinoids, further limiting its efficacy over other cannabinoids. While tolerance may limit the maximal effects of certain drugs, evidence suggests that tolerance develops irregularly for different effects with greater resistance for primary over side-effects, and may actually serve to enhance the drug's therapeutic window. However, this form of tolerance appears to be irregular throughout mouse brain areas.\nTHC, as well as other cannabinoids that contain a phenol group, possesses mild antioxidant activity sufficient to protect neurons against oxidative stress, such as that produced by glutamate-induced excitotoxicity.\n\nTHC is metabolized mainly to 11-OH-THC by the body. This metabolite is still psychoactive and is further oxidized to 11-nor-9-carboxy-THC (THC-COOH). In humans and animals, more than 100 metabolites could be identified, but 11-OH-THC and THC-COOH are the dominating metabolites. Metabolism occurs mainly in the liver by cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4. More than 55% of THC is excreted in the feces and ≈20% in the urine. The main metabolite in urine is the ester of glucuronic acid and THC-COOH and free THC-COOH. In the feces, mainly 11-OH-THC was detected.\n\nIn 1940, cannabidiol was isolated and identified from \"Cannabis sativa\", and THC was isolated and described for its structure and synthesis in 1964.\n\nAs with many aromatic terpenoids, THC has a very low solubility in water, but good solubility in most organic solvents, specifically lipids and alcohols.\n\nA total synthesis of the compound was reported in 1965; that procedure called for the intramolecular alkyl lithium attack on a starting carbonyl to form the fused rings, and a tosyl chloride mediated formation of the ether.\n\nIn the \"Cannabis\" plant, THC occurs mainly as tetrahydrocannabinolic acid (THCA, 2-COOH-THC, THC-COOH). Geranyl pyrophosphate and olivetolic acid react, catalysed by an enzyme to produce cannabigerolic acid, which is cyclized by the enzyme THC acid synthase to give THCA. Over time, or when heated, THCA is decarboxylated, producing THC. The pathway for THCA biosynthesis is similar to that which produces the bitter acid humulone in hops.\n\nTHC and its 11-OH-THC and THC-COOH metabolites can be detected and quantified in blood, urine, hair, oral fluid or sweat using a combination of immunoassay and chromatographic techniques as part of a drug use testing program or in a forensic investigation.\n\nTHC was first isolated in 1964 by Raphael Mechoulam and Yechiel Gaoni at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel.<ref name=\"doi10.1021/ja01062a046\"></ref>\n\nAt its 33rd meeting, in 2003, the World Health Organization Expert Committee on Drug Dependence recommended transferring THC to Schedule IV of the Convention, citing its medical uses and low abuse potential.\n\nFemale cannabis plants contain at least 113 cannabinoids, including cannabidiol (CBD), thought to be the major anticonvulsant that helps people with multiple sclerosis; and cannabichromene (CBC), an anti-inflammatory which may contribute to the pain-killing effect of cannabis.\n\nAs of October 2018 when recreational use of cannabis was legalized in Canada, some 220 dietary supplements and 19 veterinary health products containing not more than 10 parts per million of THC extract were approved with general health claims for treating minor conditions.\n\nThe status of THC as an illegal drug in most countries imposes restrictions on research material supply and funding, such as in the United States where the National Institute on Drug Abuse and Drug Enforcement Administration regulated sources of cannabis for researchers until August 2016 when licenses were provided to growers for supplies of medical marijuana. Although cannabis is legalized for medical uses in half of the United States, no products have been approved for federal commerce by the Food and Drug Administration, a status that limits cultivation, manufacture, distribution, clinical research, and therapeutic applications.\n\nIn April 2014, the American Academy of Neurology found evidence supporting the effectiveness of the cannabis extracts in treating certain symptoms of multiple sclerosis and pain, but there was insufficient evidence to determine effectiveness for treating several other neurological diseases. A 2015 review confirmed that medical marijuana was effective for treating spasticity and chronic pain, but caused numerous short-lasting adverse events, such as euphoria and dizziness.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57915", "title": "Verkhoyansk", "text": "Verkhoyansk\n\nVerkhoyansk (; , \"Verkhoyanskay\") is a town in Verkhoyansky District of the Sakha Republic, Russia, located on the Yana River near the Arctic Circle, from Batagay, the administrative center of the district, and north of Yakutsk, the capital of the republic. As of the 2010 Census, its population was 1,311. The town holds the Guinness world record for the greatest temperature range on Earth: .\n\nCossacks founded an ostrog in 1638, southwest of the modern town. The ostrog's name \"Verkhoyansky\", roughly translating from Russian as \"the town on the Upper Yana\", derived from its geographical location on the upper reaches of the Yana River. In 1775, it was moved to the left bank of the Yana River to facilitate tax collection. It was granted town status in 1817. Between the 1860s and 1917, the town was a place of political exile, with some of the more prominent exiles including the Polish writer Wacław Sieroszewski, as well as Bolshevik revolutionaries Ivan Babushkin and Viktor Nogin.\n\nAs an inhabited locality, Verkhoyansk is classified as a town under district jurisdiction. Within the framework of administrative divisions, it is incorporated within Verkhoyansky District as the Town of Verkhoyansk. As a municipal division, the Town of Verkhoyansk is incorporated within Verkhoyansky Municipal District as Verkhoyansk Urban Settlement.\n\nThere is a river port, an airport, a fur-collecting depot, and the center of a reindeer-raising area. It is also home to the Pole of Cold Museum.\n\nVerkhoyansk is notable chiefly for its exceptionally low winter temperatures and some of the greatest temperature differences on Earth between summer and winter. Average monthly temperatures range from in January to in July. Mean monthly temperatures are below freezing from October through April and exceed from June through August, with the intervening months of May and September constituting very short transitional seasons. Verkhoyansk has an extreme subarctic climate (Köppen \"Dfd\") dominated much of the year by high pressure. This has the effect of cutting off the region from warming influences in winter and together with a lack of cloud cover leads to extensive heat losses during the cooler months.\n\nVerkhoyansk is one of the places considered the northern Pole of Cold, the others being Oymyakon, located 629 km (391 miles) away by air, and Delyankir. The lowest temperature recorded there, in February 1892, was , recorded on February 5 and 7. This was formerly the coldest officially recorded temperature in the Northern Hemisphere. However, on February 6, 1933, the temperature at Oymyakon reached , just barely exceeding Verkhoyansk's record. Only Antarctica has recorded lower temperatures than Oymyakon or Verkhoyansk: the lowest directly recorded temperature at ground level is , recorded at the Vostok Station in Antarctica on July 21, 1983., and a temperature of was recorded via satellite observations at the East Antarctic Plateau in Antarctica on August 10, 2010.\n\nIn this area, temperature inversions consistently form in winter due to the extremely cold and dense air of the Siberian High pooling in deep hollows, so that temperatures increase rather than decrease with higher altitude. In Verkhoyansk it sometimes happens that the average minimum temperatures for January, February, and December are below . Oymyakon and Verkhoyansk are the only two permanently populated places in the world that have recorded temperatures below every day of January.\n\nIn June, July, and August, daytime temperatures over are not uncommon. The warmest month on record is July 2001, at . The average annual temperature for Verkhoyansk is . On July 25, 1988, Verkhoyansk recorded a temperature of , yielding a temperature range of based on reliable records, which is the greatest temperature range in the world. Oymyakon, Delyankir, and Yakutsk are the only other places in the world with a temperature range higher than . Verkhoyansk has never recorded a temperature above freezing between November 10 and March 14.\n\nVerkhoyansk has a dry climate with little rainfall or snowfall: the average annual precipitation is . Although no month can be described as truly wet, there are strong seasonal differences in precipitation, with the summer being much wetter than the winter. Winter precipitation is extremely light, largely because of the dominance of high pressure at this time of year. \n\n"}
{"id": "2061592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2061592", "title": "Waveski", "text": "Waveski\n\nWaveskis (also known as \"Sit on top surf kayaks, or SOTs) are a type of surf kayak that allows the rider to 'sit on top' instead of having to sit in it. Waveski surfing is a dynamic sport combining the paddle power of a sit on top kayak with the manoeuvrability and performance of a surfboard. A Waveski resembles a larger surfboard, with the addition of a seat, fins, foot straps, and seat belt, enabling the rider to 'eskimo roll' if overturned. The waveski rider or waveski surfer uses a double ended kayak paddle for motion while seated in the waveski.\n\nThe origins are obscure, but waveskis have been around for over forty years. Danny Broadhurst, a Long Island, New York, surfer created some early waveskis in the 1970s, although these were heavy, bulky and not particularly manoeuvrable. The sport experienced its major growth in the 1980s with manufactures like Macski being a dominant force in the market exporting worldwide to countries such as Australia, USA as well as into Europe. Original boards had wooden frames covered in glass fibre then became foam injected and soon custom hand made boards were being shaped and glassed out of polystyrene foam and epoxy resins. Contemporary boards are shaped in precision CNC machines and weigh around when completed.\n\nMany of the manoeuvres waveskiers have been performing since the 1980s are only now becoming mainstream moves in surfing, where they were mocked in days gone by surfers, maneuvers such as aerials, flip aerials and various other radical moves one can do on a wave. The sport is experiencing a resurgence in countries such as Brazil and France tying in with the river and sea kayak sports and holding joint competitions as they share a common functionality. More junior riders and sponsors are needed to see larger coverage of this sport. Competitions are similar to stand up surfing ones and are judged on the performance of the rider on the waves within a 20-minute heat.\n\nThere are several kinds of waveskis, including the shorter and \"fatter\" Australian style ski, used for high performance \"slash and burn\" surfing, and American style waveskis perhaps epitomized by Steve Boehne's Infinity Surf Shop skis. There are also skegless skis for performing tricks, and even tandem skis. The \"Jbay\" wave ski shape has become the predominant shape of a ski nowadays with riders positioned further back on the ski for better maneuverability. High performance skis weigh and are custom made, using epoxy resin and EPS foam, which makes the waveski light and strong. The sport provides fun and exercise for beginners through to advanced riders. A waveski is not to be confused with a surf ski. Waveskis are designed for surfing ocean waves and surf skis are designed for racing in open water, as seen in Magnum P.I., the Tom Selleck TV series.\n\n\n"}
