{"id": "77396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77396", "title": "Admiralty law", "text": "Admiralty law\n\nAdmiralty law or maritime law is a body of law that governs nautical issues and private maritime disputes. Admiralty law consists of both domestic law on maritime activities, and private international law governing the relationships between private parties operating or using ocean-going ships. While each legal jurisdiction usually has its own legislation governing maritime matters, the international nature of the topic and the need for uniformity has, since 1900, led to considerable international maritime law developments, including numerous multilateral treaties.\n\nMatters dealt by admiralty law include marine commerce, marine navigation, salvage, maritime pollution, seafarers’ rights, and the carriage by sea of both passengers and goods. Admiralty law also covers land-based commercial activities that are maritime in character, such as marine insurance. Some lawyers prefer to reserve the term “admiralty law” for “wet law” (e.g. salvage, collisions, ship arrest, towage, liens, & limitation), and use “maritime law” only for “dry law” (e.g. carriage of goods & people, marine insurance, and the MLC).\n\nAdmiralty law may be distinguished from the Law of the Sea, which is a body of public international law dealing with navigational rights, mineral rights, jurisdiction over coastal waters, and the maritime relationships between nations. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea has been adopted by 167 countries and the European Union, and disputes are resolved at the ITLOS tribunal in Hamburg.\n\nSeaborne transport was one of the earliest channels of commerce, and rules for resolving disputes involving maritime trade were developed early in recorded history. Early historical records of these laws include the Rhodian law (Nomos Rhodion Nautikos), of which no primary written specimen has survived, but which is alluded to in other legal texts (Roman and Byzantine legal codes), and later the customs of the Consulate of the Sea or the Hanseatic League. In southern Italy the Ordinamenta et consuetudo maris (1063) at Trani and the Amalfian Laws were in effect from an early date.\n\nBracton noted further that admiralty law was also used as an alternative to the common law in Norman England, which previously required voluntary submission to it by entering a plea seeking judgment from the court.\n\nIslamic law also made major contributions to international admiralty law, departing from the previous Roman and Byzantine maritime laws in several ways. These included Muslim sailors being paid a fixed wage \"in advance\" with an understanding that they would owe money in the event of desertion or malfeasance, in keeping with Islamic conventions in which contracts should specify \"a known fee for a known duration.\" (In contrast, Roman and Byzantine sailors were \"stakeholders in a maritime venture, inasmuch as captain and crew, with few exceptions, were paid proportional divisions of a sea venture's profit, with shares allotted by rank, only after a voyage's successful conclusion.\") Muslim jurists also distinguished between \"coastal navigation, or \"cabotage\"\", and voyages on the \"high seas\", and they made shippers \"liable for freight in most cases except the seizure of both a ship and its cargo\". Islamic law \"departed from Justinian's \"Digest\" and the \"Nomos Rhodion Nautikos\" in condemning slave jettison\", and the Islamic \"Qirad\" was a precursor to the European \"commenda\" limited partnership. The \"Islamic influence on the development of an international law of the sea\" can thus be discerned alongside that of the Roman influence.\n\nA leading sponsor of admiralty law in Europe was the French Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine. Eleanor (sometimes known as \"Eleanor of Guyenne”) had learned about admiralty law whilst on a crusade in the eastern Mediterranean with her first husband, King Louis VII of France. Eleanor then established admiralty law on the island of Oleron, where it was published as the \"Rolls of Oleron\". Some time later, while she was in London acting as regent for her son, King Richard the Lionheart, Eleanor instituted admiralty law into England as well.\n\nIn England, a special Admiralty Court handles all admiralty cases. Despite early reliance upon civil law concepts derived from the Corpus Juris Civilis of Justinian, the English Admiralty Court is very much a common law court, albeit a \"sui generis\" tribunal initially somewhat distanced from other English courts. After around 1750, as the industrial revolution took hold and English maritime commerce burgeoned, the Admiralty Court became a proactive source of innovative legal ideas and provisions to meet the new situation. The Judicature Acts of 1873-1875 abolished the Admiralty Court as such, and it became conflated in the new \"Probate, Divorce & Admiralty\" division of the High Court. However, when the PDA was abolished and replaced by a new \"Family Division\", admiralty jurisdiction passed to a so-called \"Admiralty Court\" which was effectively the QBD sitting to hear nautical cases. The Senior Courts Act 1981 then clarified the \"admiralty jurisdiction of the High Court\", so England once again has a distinct Admiralty Court (albeit no longer based in the Royal Courts of Justice, but in the Rolls Building). \n\nEnglish Admiralty courts were a prominent feature in the prelude to the American Revolution. For example, the phrase in the Declaration of Independence \"For depriving us in many cases, of the benefits of Trial by Jury\" refers to the practice of the UK Parliament giving the Admiralty Courts jurisdiction to enforce The Stamp Act in the American Colonies. This power has been awarded because the Stamp Act was unpopular in America, so that a colonial jury would be unlikely to convict any colonist of its violation. However, since English admiralty courts have never had trial by jury, a colonist charged with breaching the Stamp Act could be more easily convicted by the Crown.\n\nAdmiralty law became part of the law of the United States as it was gradually introduced through admiralty cases arising after the adoption of the U.S. Constitution in 1789. Many American lawyers who were prominent in the American Revolution were admiralty and maritime lawyers in their private lives. Those included are Alexander Hamilton in New York and John Adams in Massachusetts.\n\nIn 1787 John Adams, who was then ambassador to France, wrote to James Madison proposing that the U.S. Constitution, then under consideration by the States, be amended to include \"trial by jury in all matters of fact triable by the laws of the land [as opposed the law of admiralty] and not by the laws of Nations [i.e. not by the law of admiralty]\". The result was the Seventh Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Alexander Hamilton and John Adams were both admiralty lawyers and Adams represented John Hancock in an admiralty case in colonial Boston involving seizure of one of Hancock's ships for violations of Customs regulations. In the more modern era, Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes was an admiralty lawyer before ascending to the bench.\n\nThe doctrine of maintenance and cure is rooted in Article VI of the Rolls of Oleron promulgated in about 1160 A.D. The obligation to \"cure\" requires a shipowner to provide medical care free of charge to a seaman injured in the service of the ship, until the seaman has reached \"maximum medical cure\". The concept of \"maximum medical cure\" is more extensive than the concept \"maximum medical improvement\". The obligation to \"cure\" a seaman includes the obligation to provide him with medications and medical devices which improve his ability to function, even if they don't \"improve\" his actual condition. They may include long term treatments that permit him to continue to function well. Common examples include prostheses, wheelchairs, and pain medications.\n\nThe obligation of \"maintenance\" requires the shipowner to provide a seaman with his basic living expenses while he is convalescing. Once a seaman is able to work, he is expected to maintain himself. Consequently, a seaman can lose his right to maintenance, while the obligation to provide cure is ongoing.\n\nA seaman who is required to sue a shipowner to recover maintenance and cure may also recover his attorneys fees. \"Vaughan v. Atkinson\", 369 U.S. 527 (1962). If a shipowner's breach of its obligation to provide maintenance and cure is willful and wanton, the shipowner may be subject to punitive damages. See \"Atlantic Sounding Co. v. Townsend\", 557 U.S. 404 (2009)(J. Thomas).\n\nShipowners owe a duty of reasonable care to passengers. Consequently, passengers who are injured aboard ships may bring suit as if they had been injured ashore through the negligence of a third party. The passenger bears the burden of proving that the shipowner was negligent. While personal injury cases must generally be pursued within three years, suits against cruise lines may need to be brought within one year because of limitations contained in the passenger ticket. Notice requirements in the ticket may require a formal notice to be brought within six months of the injury. Most U.S. cruise line passenger tickets also have provisions requiring that suit to be brought in either Miami or Seattle.\n\nIn England, the 1954 case of \"Adler v Dickson (The Himalaya)\" [1954] allowed a shipping line to escape liability when a bosun's negligence resulted in a passenger being injured. Since then, the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 has made it unlawful to exclude liability for death or personal injury caused by one's negligence. (Since then, however, the so-called \"Himalaya clause\" has become a useful way for a contractor to pass on the protection of a limitation clause to his employees, agents and third-party contractors).\n\nBanks which loan money to purchase ships, vendors who supply ships with necessaries like fuel and stores, seamen who are due wages, and many others have a lien against the ship to guarantee payment. To enforce the lien, the ship must be arrested or seized. In the United States, an action to enforce a lien against a U.S. ship must be brought in federal court and cannot be done in state court, except for under the reverse-\"Erie\" doctrine whereby state courts can apply federal law.\n\nWhen property is lost at sea and rescued by another, the rescuer is entitled to claim a salvage award on the salvaged property. There is no \"life salvage\". All mariners have a duty to save the lives of others in peril without expectation of reward. Consequently, salvage law applies only to the saving of property.\n\nThere are two types of salvage: contract salvage and pure salvage, which is sometimes referred to as \"merit salvage\". In contract salvage the owner of the property and salvor enter into a salvage contract prior to the commencement of salvage operations and the amount that the salvor is paid is determined by the contract. The most common salvage contract is called a \"Lloyd's Open Form Salvage Contract\".\n\nIn pure salvage, there is no contract between the owner of the goods and the salvor. The relationship is one which is implied by law. The salvor of property under pure salvage must bring his claim for salvage in court, which will award salvage based upon the \"merit\" of the service and the value of the salvaged property.\n\nPure salvage claims are divided into \"high-order\" and \"low-order\" salvage. In high-order salvage, the salvor exposes himself and his crew to the risk of injury and loss or damage to his equipment to salvage the damaged ship. Examples of high-order salvage are boarding a sinking ship in heavy weather, boarding a ship which is on fire, raising a ship or boat which has already sunk, or towing a ship which is in the surf away from the shore. Low-order salvage occurs where the salvor is exposed to little or no personal risk. Examples of low-order salvage include towing another vessel in calm seas, supplying a vessel with fuel, or pulling a vessel off a sand bar. Salvors performing high order salvage receive substantially greater salvage award than those performing low order salvage.\n\nIn both high-order and low-order salvage the amount of the salvage award is based first upon the value of the property saved. If nothing is saved, or if additional damage is done, there will be no award. The other factors to be considered are the skills of the salvor, the peril to which the salvaged property was exposed, the value of the property which was risked in effecting the salvage, the amount of time and money expended in the salvage operation etc.\n\nA pure or merit salvage award will seldom exceed 50 percent of the value of the property salved. The exception to that rule is in the case of treasure salvage. Because sunken treasure has generally been lost for hundreds of years, while the original owner (or insurer, if the vessel was insured) continues to have an interest in it, the salvor or finder will generally get the majority of the value of the property. While sunken ships from the Spanish Main (such as \"Nuestra Señora de Atocha\" in the Florida Keys) are the most commonly thought of type of treasure salvage, other types of ships including German submarines from World War II which can hold valuable historical artifacts, American Civil War ships (the USS \"Maple Leaf\" in the St. Johns River, and the CSS \"Virginia\" in Chesapeake Bay), and sunken merchant ships (the SS \"Central America\" off Cape Hatteras) have all been the subject of treasure salvage awards. Due to refinements in side-scanning sonars, many ships which were previously missing are now being located and treasure salvage is now a less risky endeavor than it was in the past, although it is still highly speculative and expensive.\n\nPrior to the mid-1970s, most international conventions concerning maritime trade and commerce originated in a private organization of maritime lawyers known as the Comité Maritime International (International Maritime Committee or CMI). Founded in 1897, the CMI was responsible for the drafting of numerous international conventions including the Hague Rules (International Convention on Bills of Lading), the Visby Amendments (amending the Hague Rules), the Salvage Convention and many others. While the CMI continues to function in an advisory capacity, many of its functions have been taken over by the International Maritime Organization, which was established by the United Nations in 1958 but did not become truly effective until about 1974.\n\nThe IMO has prepared numerous international conventions concerning maritime safety including the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), the Standards for Training, Certification, and Watchkeeping (STCW), the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea (Collision Regulations or COLREGS), Maritime Pollution Regulations (MARPOL), International Aeronautical and Maritime Search and Rescue Convention (IAMSAR) and others. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) defined a treaty regarding protection of the marine environment and various maritime boundaries. Restrictions on international fishing such as International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling also form part of the body of conventions in international waters. Other commercial conventions include the \"International Convention relating to the Limitation of the Liability of Owners of Sea-Going Ships\", Brussels, 10 October 1957. and International Convention for Safe Containers.\n\nOnce adopted, most international conventions are enforced by the individual signatory nations, either through their Port State Control, or through their national courts. Cases within the ambit of the European Union's EMSA may be heard by the CJEU in Luxembourg. By contrast, disputes involving the Law of the Sea may be resolved at ITLOS in Hamburg, provided that the parties are signatories to UNCLOS.\n\nMerchant vessels transiting areas of increased pirate activity (i.e. the Gulf of Aden, Somali Basin, Southern Red Sea and Bab-el-Mandeb straits) are advised to implement Self-Protective measures in accordance with most recent \"Best Management Practices\" agreed upon by the members of the merchant industry, and endorsed by the NATO Shipping Centre, and the Maritime Security Centre Horn-of-Africa (MSCHOA)\n\nCommon law legal systems of Britain and the United States are in contrast to civil law legal systems which prevail in continental Europe and trace back to old Roman codified law. Although England's admiralty law was a development of continental civil law, its admiralty courts were common law courts, albeit somewhat distanced from the mainstream Kings Bench.\n\nMost of the common law countries (including Pakistan, Singapore, India, and many other Commonwealth of Nations countries) follow English statute and case law. India still follows many Victorian-era British statutes such as the Admiralty Court Act 1861 [24 Vict c 10]. Whilst Pakistan now has its own statute, the Admiralty Jurisdiction of High Courts Ordinance, 1980 (Ordinance XLII of 1980), it also follows English case law. One reason for this is that the 1980 Ordinance is partly modelled on old English admiralty law, namely the Administration of Justice Act 1956. The current statute dealing with the Admiralty jurisdiction of the England and Wales High Court is the Supreme Court Act 1981, ss. 20-24, 37. The provisions in those sections are, in turn, based on the International Arrest Convention 1952. Other countries which do not follow the English statute and case laws, such as Panama, also have established well-known maritime courts which decide international cases on a regular basis.\n\nAdmiralty courts assume jurisdiction by virtue of the presence of the vessel in its territorial jurisdiction irrespective of whether the vessel is national or not and whether registered or not, and wherever the residence or domicile or their owners may be. A vessel is usually arrested by the court to retain jurisdiction. State-owned vessels are usually immune from arrest.\n\nCanadian jurisdiction in the area of \"Navigation and Shipping\" is vested in the Parliament of Canada by virtue of s. 91(10) of the \"Constitution Act, 1867\".\n\nCanada has adopted an expansive definition of its maritime law, which goes beyond traditional admiralty law. The original English admiralty jurisdiction was called \"wet\", as it concerned itself with things done at sea, including collisions, salvage and the work of mariners, and contracts and torts performed at sea. Canadian law has added \"dry\" jurisdiction to this field, which includes such matters as:\n\n\nThis list is not exhaustive of the subject matter.\n\nCanadian jurisdiction was originally consolidated in 1891, with subsequent expansions in 1934 following the passage of the \"Statute of Westminster 1931\", and in 1971 with the extension to \"dry\" matters.\n\nRecent jurisprudence at the Supreme Court of Canada has tended to expand the maritime law power, thus overriding prior provincial laws based on the provinces' power over property and civil rights.\n\nArticle III, Section 2 of the United States Constitution grants original jurisdiction to U.S. federal courts over admiralty and maritime matters; however, that jurisdiction is not exclusive, and most maritime cases can be heard in either state or federal courts under the \"saving to suitors\" clause.\n\nThere are five types of cases which can only be brought in federal court:\n\n\nThe common element of those cases are that they require the court to exercise jurisdiction over maritime property. For example, in a Petitory and Possession Action, a vessel whose title is in dispute, usually between co-owners, will be put in the possession of the court until the title dispute can be resolved. In a Limitation Action, the shipowner will post a bond reflecting the value of the vessel and her pending freight. A sixth category, that of prize (law), relating to claims over vessels captured during wartime, has been rendered obsolete due to changes in the laws and practices of warfare.\n\nAside from those five types of cases, all other maritime cases, such as claims for personal injuries, cargo damage, collisions, maritime products liability, and recreational boating accidents may be brought in either federal or state court.\n\nFrom a tactical standpoint it is important to consider that in federal courts in the United States, there is generally no right to trial by jury in admiralty cases, although the Jones Act grants a jury trial to seamen suing their employers.\n\nMaritime law is governed by a uniform three-year statute of limitations for personal injury and wrongful death cases. Cargo cases must be brought within two years (extended from the one-year allowance under the Hague-Visby Rules), pursuant to the adoption of the Rotterdam Rules. Most major cruise ship passenger tickets have a one-year statute of limitations.\n\nA state court hearing an admiralty or maritime case is required to apply the admiralty and maritime law, even if it conflicts with the law of the state, under a doctrine known as the \"reverse-Erie doctrine\". While the \"Erie doctrine\" requires that federal courts hearing state actions must apply substantive state law, the \"reverse-Erie doctrine\" requires state courts hearing admiralty cases to apply substantive federal admiralty law. However, state courts are allowed to apply state procedural law. This change can be significant.\n\nClaims for damage to cargo shipped in international commerce are governed by the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act (COGSA), which is the U.S. enactment of the Hague Rules. One of its key features is that a shipowner is liable for cargo damaged from \"hook to hook\", meaning from loading to discharge, unless it is exonerated under one of 17 exceptions to liability, such as an \"act of God\", the inherent nature of the goods, errors in navigation, and management of the ship. The basis of liability for the shipowner is a bailment and if the carrier is to be liable as a common carrier, it must be established that the goods were placed in the carrier's possession and control for immediate carriage.\n\nSeamen injured aboard ship have three possible sources of compensation: the principle of maintenance and cure, the doctrine of unseaworthiness, and the Jones Act. The principle of maintenance and cure requires a shipowner to both pay for an injured seaman's medical treatment until maximum medical recovery (MMR) is obtained and provide basic living expenses until completion of the voyage, even if the seaman is no longer aboard ship.\n\nThere are several universities that offer maritime law programs. What follows is a partial list of universities offering postgraduate maritime courses:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1308730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1308730", "title": "Appeal procedure before the European Patent Office", "text": "Appeal procedure before the European Patent Office\n\nThe European Patent Convention (EPC), the multilateral treaty instituting the legal system according to which European patents are granted, contains provisions allowing a party to appeal a decision issued by a first instance department of the European Patent Office (EPO). For instance, a decision of an Examining Division refusing to grant a European patent application may be appealed by the applicant. The appeal procedure before the European Patent Office is under the responsibility of its Boards of Appeal, which are institutionally independent within the EPO.\n\nDecisions of the first instance departments of the European Patent Office (EPO) can be appealed, i.e. challenged, before the Boards of Appeal of the EPO, in a judicial procedure (proper to an administrative court), as opposed to an administrative procedure. These boards act as the final instances in the granting and opposition procedures before the EPO. The Boards of Appeal have been recognised as courts, or tribunals, of an international organisation, the EPO.\n\nThe Boards of Appeal of the EPO, including the Enlarged Board of Appeal, are based at the headquarters of the EPO in Munich, Germany. This contrasts with the Examining Divisions and Opposition Divisions, the first instance departments carrying the examination of patent applications and of oppositions to granted European patents, which may be in Munich, in Rijswijk (a suburb of The Hague, Netherlands), or in Berlin, Germany.\n\nIn October 2017, the Boards of Appeal moved to Haar, a municipality located 12 km east of Munich's city centre.\n\nIn addition to the Boards of Appeal, the European Patent Office has an \"Enlarged Board of Appeal\" (sometimes abbreviated \"EBoA\" or \"EBA\"). This board does not constitute an additional level of jurisdiction in the classical sense. The Enlarged Board of Appeal, which is fundamentally a legal instance in charge of deciding on points of law, has four functions, as follows.\n\nThe first two functions of the Enlarged Board of Appeal are to make decisions or to issue opinions when the case law of the Boards of Appeal becomes inconsistent or when an important point of law arises, either upon a referral from a Board of Appeal (first function of the Enlarged Board of Appeal), in which case the Enlarged Board issues a decision, or upon a referral from the President of the EPO (second function of the Enlarged Board of Appeal), in which case the Enlarged Board issues an opinion. Its purpose is \"to ensure uniform application of the law\" and to clarify or interpret important points of law in relation to the European Patent Convention. The referral of a question of law by a Board of Appeal to the Enlarged Board of Appeal is fairly similar to a referral by a national court to the European Court of Justice.\n\nThe third function of the Enlarged Board of Appeal is to examine petitions for review of decisions of the Boards of Appeal. The third function is relatively recent. It is indeed only since December 2007 and the entry into force of the EPC 2000, the revised European Patent Convention, that a petition for review of a decision of a Board may be filed, albeit on limited grounds.\n\nThe fourth function is to propose the removal from office of a member of the boards of appeal. Under Article 23(1) EPC, a member of the Enlarged Board or of a Board of Appeal may not be removed from office during the five-year term of appointment, other than on serious grounds and if the \"Administrative Council, on a proposal from the Enlarged Board of Appeal, takes a decision to this effect.\" The Enlarged Board has been requested on three occasions to propose the removal from office of the same Board member, but did so in none of these cases.\n\nThe Boards of Appeal, the Enlarged Board of Appeal, as well as their registries and support services, form a separate unit within the European Patent Office, the so-called \"Boards of Appeal Unit\". It is directed by the President of the Boards of Appeal, a position held as of 2018 by former Swedish Judge Carl Josefsson. The President of the Boards of Appeal is also the chairperson of the Enlarged Board of Appeal. The \"Presidium of the Boards of Appeal\" is the autonomous authority within the Boards of Appeal Unit, and consists of the President of the Boards of Appeal and twelve members of the Boards of Appeal, elected by their peers. \n\nFurthermore, a \"Boards of Appeal Committee\" has been set up by the Administrative Council of the European Patent Organisation to adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal (and of the Enlarged Board of Appeal), and to assist the Administrative Council in supervising the Boards of Appeal. The Boards of Appeal Committee consists of six members, three of whom are members of the Administrative Council itself (i.e. representatives of the Contracting States within the meaning of ) and the remaining three are \"serving or former judges of international or European courts or of national courts of the Contracting States\".\n\nThe current organisational and managerial structure of the Boards of Appeal resulted from a reform undertaken by the Administrative Council as a reaction to Enlarged Board of Appeal decision R 19/12 of 25 April 2014. The reform was undertaken by the Administrative Council \"within the existing framework of the European Patent Convention, without requiring its revision.\"\n\nAn appeal may be filed against a decision of a first instance department of the EPO, i.e. a decision of the Receiving Section, of an Examining Division, of an Opposition Division or of the Legal Division. The Boards of Appeal are not competent, however, to review decisions taken by the EPO acting as international authority under the Patent Cooperation Treaty. Most appeals are filed (i.e., lodged) against decisions of Examining Divisions and Opposition Divisions, with a relatively small number of cases being appeals against decisions of the Receiving Section and Legal Division. An appeal has a suspensive effect, which means that, for example, \"[i]n the case of a refusal of an application, the filing of an appeal will have the effect of suspending the effect of the order refusing the application\". The provisions applicable to the first instance proceedings from which the appeal derives also apply during appeal proceedings, \"[u]nless otherwise provided.\"\n\nIf an appeal is lodged against a decision in \"ex parte\" proceedings (i.e., proceedings involving only one party) and if the first instance department which took the decision regards the appeal to be admissible and well founded, it has to rectify its decision. This is a so-called \"interlocutory revision\", which is said to be a rather unusual procedure within the EPO. This is a very useful procedure for example if amendments are filed with the appeal, which clearly overcome the objections in the first instance decision. If the appeal is not allowed by the first instance department within three months of receipt of the statement of grounds, the first instance department has to transfer the case to the Board of Appeal without delay, and without comment as to its merit.\n\nFor an appeal to be admissible, amongst other requirements, notice of appeal must be filed at the EPO within two months of notification of the contested decision, and the fee for appeal must be paid. In addition, within four months of notification of the decision, a statement setting out the grounds of appeal (i.e., the appeal grounds) must be filed, which must contain the appellant's complete case. The appellant must also be adversely affected by the appealed decision. A party is only adversely affected by an appealed decision if the order of the appealed decision does not comply with its request (i.e. what the party requested during the first instance proceedings). For instance, when \"the order of the decision of the opposition division is the revocation of the patent, an opponent who requested revocation of the patent in its entirety is not \"adversely affected by\" said decision... irrespective of the reasons given in the decision.\"\n\nThe admissibility of an appeal may be assessed at every stage of the appeal proceedings. Furthermore, the requirements for admissibility must not only be satisfied when lodging the appeal, they must be sustained throughout the duration of the appeal proceedings. If the appeal is admissible, the Board of Appeal examines whether the appeal is allowable, i.e. the Board addresses the merits of the case.\n\nAfter examining the allowability of an appeal, a Board has the discretion to either \"exercise any power within the competence of the department which was responsible for the decision appealed\" (correction of a decision) or \"remit the case to that department for further prosecution\" (cassation of a decision). When a board remits a case to the first instance, it does so notably to give the parties the possibility of defending their case before two instances, i.e. at two levels of jurisdiction, although \"there is no absolute right to have an issue decided upon by two instances.\" The boards generally take into account as well the need for procedural efficiency when deciding whether to remit a case to the first instance and \"the general interest that proceedings are brought to a close within an appropriate period of time\".\n\nParties with a legitimate interest may request accelerated processing of the appeal proceedings. Courts and competent authorities of the contracting states may also request accelerated processing. Exceptionally the Board of Appeal may itself decide to accelerate the proceedings, \"ex officio\", \"for example in view of the disadvantages which could ensue from the suspensive effect of the appeal in the case in question\".\n\nDuring an appeal, oral proceedings may take place at the request of the EPO or at the request of any party to the proceedings, i.e. the applicant (who is, in pre-grant appeal, the appellant), or the patentee or an opponent (who are, in opposition appeal, appellant or respondent). The oral proceedings in appeal are held in Munich, and are public unless very particular circumstances apply. This contrasts with oral proceedings held before an Examining Division, which are not public. The list of public oral proceedings in appeal before the EPO is available on its web site. The right to oral proceedings is a specific and codified part of the procedural right to be heard. A decision is most often taken at the end of the oral proceedings, since the purpose of oral proceedings is to come to a conclusion on a case.\n\nThe EPC provides that, if the Board of Appeal finds out that a substantial procedural violation took place during the first instance proceedings and if the Board considers the appeal to be allowable, the appeal fee shall be reimbursed if such reimbursement is equitable.\n\nA substantial procedural violation may for instance occur during the first instance proceedings if the right of the parties to be heard were violated () or if the first instance decision was not properly reasoned (). To be properly reasoned, \"a decision must contain, in logical sequence, those arguments which justify its order\" \"so as to enable the parties and, in case of an appeal, the board of appeal to examine whether the decision was justified or not\".\n\nMore generally, a substantial procedural violation is \"an objective deficiency affecting the entire proceedings\". The expression \"substantial procedural violation\" is to be understood, in principle, as meaning \"that the rules of procedure have not been applied in the manner prescribed by the [European Patent] Convention.\"\n\nThe appeal fee is reimbursed in full \"if the appeal is withdrawn before the filing of the statement of grounds of appeal and before the period for filing that statement has expired.\" Besides, 50% of the appeal fee is reimbursed if the appeal is withdrawn after expiry of the period for filing the statement of grounds of appeal, but if withdrawal occurs in any of the cases specified in . According to Board of Appeal 3.3.05, such a reimbursement of 50% of the appeal fee is only to be made if \"a procedural declaration [is made] that leaves no doubt that withdrawal of the appeal is intended\".\n\nThe legal system established under the EPC differs from a common law legal system in that \"[it] does not treat (...) established jurisprudence as binding.\" Under the EPC, there is no principle of binding case law.<ref name=\"T 1099/06\"> T 1099/06, Reasons 1.</ref> That is, the binding effect of board of appeal decisions is extremely limited.\n\nA decision of a Board of Appeal is only binding on to the department whose decision was appealed, insofar as the facts are the same (if the case is remitted to the first instance of course). However, \"[if] the decision which was appealed emanated from the Receiving Section, the Examining Division shall similarly be bound by the ratio decidendi of the Board of Appeal.\" However, if \"a Board consider[s] it necessary to deviate from an interpretation or explanation of the [EPC] given in an earlier decision of any Board, the grounds for this deviation shall be given, unless such grounds are in accordance with an earlier opinion or decision of the Enlarged Board of Appeal.\"\n\nA decision of the Enlarged Board of Appeal (pursuant to ) is only binding on the Board of Appeal in respect of the appeal in question, i.e. on the Board of Appeal which referred the question to the Enlarged Board of Appeal. Furthermore, in the event that a Board considers it necessary to deviate from an opinion or decision of the Enlarged Board of Appeal, a question must be referred to the Enlarged Board of Appeal.\n\nOutside the European Patent Office, the decisions of the Boards of Appeal are not strictly binding on national courts, but they certainly have a persuasive authority.\n\nThe members of the Boards of Appeal and of the Enlarged Board of Appeal are appointed by the Administrative Council of the European Patent Organisation on a proposal from the President of the European Patent Office. Moreover, during their five-year term, the Board members may only be removed from office under exceptional circumstances.\n\nAccording to Sir Robin Jacob, the members of the Boards of Appeal are \"judges in all but name\". They are only bound by the European Patent Convention. They are not bound by any instructions, such as the \"Guidelines for Examination in the European Patent Office\". They have a duty of independence.\n\nHowever, since \"the [appeal] boards' administrative and organisational attachment to the EPO which is an administrative authority obscures their judicial nature and is not fully commensurate with their function as a judicial body\", there have been calls for creating, within the European Patent Organisation, a third judicial body alongside the Administrative Council and the European Patent Office. This third judicial body would replace the present Boards of Appeal and could be called the \"\"Court of Appeals of the European Patent Organisation\" or the \"European Court of Patent Appeals\"\". This third body would have his own budget, would have its seat in Munich, Germany and would be supervised \"without prejudice to its judicial independence\" by the Administrative Council of the EPO. The EPO has also proposed that the members of the Boards of Appeal should be appointed for lifetime, \"with grounds for termination exhaustively regulated in the EPC\". These changes would however need to be approved by a new Diplomatic Conference.\n\nAccording to some experts, the calls to improve the institutional independence of the Boards of Appeal have not received so far the appropriate consideration by the Administrative Council of the European Patent Organisation. Echoing these concerns, the Enlarged Board of Appeal in its decision R 19/12, with potentially far-reaching effects, regarded an objection of partiality against the Vice-President DG3 (Directorate-General Appeals) as justified on the grounds that he is acting both as chairman of the Enlarged Board of Appeal and as a member of the Management Committee of the EPO. The decision shows the persistent disquietude caused by the integration of the Boards of Appeal into the European Patent Office. This question, namely the question of the independence of the Boards of Appeal, was also raised by Spain \"against the Regulations on the unitary patent\" in cases C-146/13 and C-147/13.\n\nEach decision of the Boards of Appeal and the Enlarged Board of Appeal, as well as each opinion of the Enlarged Board of Appeal, has an alphanumeric reference, such as decision \"T 285/93\". The first letter (or the text \"Art 23\") of the reference indicates the type of board which took the decision:\nThe number before the oblique is the serial number, allocated by chronological order of receipt at the DG3, the Directorate General 3 (Appeals) of the European Patent Office. The last two digits give the year of receipt of the appeal in DG3. The letter \"V\" is sometimes used to refer to a decision of an Examining or Opposition Division.\n\nIn addition to their alphanumeric reference, decisions are sometimes referred to and identified by their date to distinguish between decisions regarding the same case issued at a different date (e.g. T 843/91 of 17 March 1993 and T 843/91 of 5 August 1993 , T 59/87 of 26 April 1988 and T 59/87 of 14 August 1990 or T 261/88 of 28 March 1991 and T 261/88 of 16 February 1993 ).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20542332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20542332", "title": "Baysayeva v. Russia", "text": "Baysayeva v. Russia\n\nBaysayeva v. Russia was an April 5, 2007, European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of forced disappearance of a Chechen man Shakhid Baysayev, which unanimously held Russia responsible for serious violations of the European Convention on Human Rights. The decision was the latest in a series of judgements against Russia in cases connected to the war in Chechnya.\n\nIn its unanimous judgment, the Court made a number of important findings:\n\n\nThe panel of seven judges, which included the Russian judge, ordered Russia to pay the applicant Asmart Baysayeva 50,000 Euro in compensation for moral damages. The government was also obliged to take steps to properly investigate Baysayev’s disappearance. \n\nAt the time of the ruling some 200 similar cases were pending before the Strasbourg court. An estimated 5,000 people have \"disappeared\" in Chechnya since the start of the Second Chechen War in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "35682318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35682318", "title": "Butterworth's Annotated Legislation Service", "text": "Butterworth's Annotated Legislation Service\n\nButterworth's Annotated Legislation Service, formerly known as Butterworth's Emergency Legislation Service, contains annotated copies of certain Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It is published by Butterworths.\n\nIn 1982, Glanville Williams said that the Annotated Legislation Service was \"useful\" at the first appearance of an Act. It was not, however, regularly kept up to date by reissues or supplements. Williams said this was a \"defect\".\n\nIt has been said that \"many\" volumes of this work cover a single Act and have \"very detailed\" annotations.\n\nPublication of this work began in 1939.\n"}
{"id": "5590483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5590483", "title": "Colombia Three", "text": "Colombia Three\n\nThe Colombia Three are three individuals – Niall Connolly, James Monaghan and Martin McCauley – who are currently living in the Republic of Ireland, having fled from Colombia, where they were sentenced to prison terms of seventeen years for training FARC rebels. The incident came during a crucial time in the Northern Ireland peace process and risked damaging it.\n\nThe three came to prominence on 11 August 2001, when they were arrested travelling on false passports at Bogotá International Airport while waiting to transfer to international flights out of the country. The Colombian authorities alleged at the time that they were training FARC rebels and were members of the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA). According to General Fernando Tapias Stahelin, the Colombian authorities were tipped off by \"an international security organisation\".\n\nTwo of the three men, Monaghan and McCauley, had arrived in Colombia on 30 June 2001 on a flight from Belfast, via Paris. Niall Connolly had flown from Dublin, via Madrid, and spent a day in Caracas before making a rendezvous in Bogotá. The three men then spent the next five weeks travelling through a demilitarised southern zone of Colombia, then under the control of the FARC rebels as part of peace talks with the Colombian government. They were arrested as soon as they touched down in Bogotá on a commercial flight on the Saturday night.\n\nAfter the men's arrest at Bogota airport, they were only charged with travelling on false passports, until 15 February 2002, when they were also charged with training FARC rebels in bomb-making. After a number of delays, including a boycott of proceedings by the three accused, the trial opened on 2 December 2002. Following a number of adjournments, the trial closed on 1 August 2003. The trial judge returned a verdict which found the three men guilty of travelling on false passports and they were given varying sentences of up to 44 months. They were found not guilty on the more serious charges relating to training FARC rebels; however, the judge ordered their release upon payment of fines equivalent to £3,800.\n\nIn accordance with Colombian law, the prosecution had the right to appeal the verdict, which it did. While awaiting appeal, the three men were free to leave jail, but were instructed by a judge to remain within the country. The appeal court overturned the original trial verdict, and convicted the men of training the rebels, sentencing them to seventeen years in jail on 16 December 2004.\n\nThe day after their conviction, the Colombian Attorney General announced that the men had fled Colombia. On 5 August 2005, following an interview with Monaghan by RTÉ's Charlie Bird, it emerged that the three men had clandestinely returned to Ireland. The three men were subsequently questioned by Gardaí but no moves have been taken in relation to extraditing them to Colombia, despite the existence of a Colombian arrest warrant, since no extradition treaty or agreement exists between Colombia and Ireland.\n\nJames William Monaghan was born on 9 August 1945, and is originally from County Donegal but his last known address was in Newry, County Down. In the 1970s he was believed to have been active in the IRA, gaining the nickname 'Mortar' on account of his skill in manufacturing homemade mortars and, according to security sources, he was head of the IRA's engineering section.\n\nMonaghan was arrested on terrorist charges in County Donegal in the 1970s. In 1972 he was arrested in London and given a prison sentence for terrorism offences. In 1976, he escaped from the Special Criminal Court in Dublin following a double bomb blast. He was elected to the Sinn Féin Ard Chomhairle in 1989. According to Alex Maskey, he left Sinn Féin in 1989 or 1990, In 1999 he joined an organisation called Coiste na n-Iarchimí, a Republican ex-prisoners group. He was reported to have been a member of the IRA Army Council.\n\nMartin McCauley was born on 1 December 1962 in County Armagh. He was shot aged 19 in 1982 by the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) in a barn near Lurgan resulting from which he won a five-figure sum for damages against the RUC. He was unarmed at the time and another teenager was killed. In 1985 he was charged with weapons possession in Northern Ireland and received a two-year suspended sentence. He was a Sinn Féin election worker during assembly elections in the Upper Bann constituency in 1998, but according to Sinn Féin he was not a member of the party. McCauley is regarded as a leading figure in the IRA's engineering section.\n\nNiall Connolly was born on 5 December 1964 in Glenageary, County Dublin, and was educated at Newpark Comprehensive School and Trinity College, Dublin. The only one of the three who was a fluent Spanish speaker, he has extensive experience in Latin America, having worked there for a number of years. Prior to his arrest, he was resident in Cuba, where the Cuban authorities claimed he was the Latin America representative for Sinn Féin. This was initially denied by Sinn Féin, but they later accepted that he had been working in Cuba as a part-time party representative.\n"}
{"id": "18932365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18932365", "title": "Copyright Term Extension Act", "text": "Copyright Term Extension Act\n\nThe Copyright Term Extension Act (CTEA) of 1998 extended copyright terms in the United States. It is one of several acts extending the terms of copyrights.\n\nFollowing the Copyright Act of 1976, copyright would last for the life of the author plus 50 years, or 75 years for a work of corporate authorship. The 1976 Act also increased the extension term for works copyrighted before 1978 that had not already entered the public domain from 28 years to 47 years, giving a total term of 75 years.\n\nThe 1998 Act extended these terms to life of the author plus 70 years and for works of corporate authorship to 120 years after creation or 95 years after publication, whichever end is earlier. Copyright protection for works published before January 1, 1978, was increased by 20 years to a total of 95 years from their publication date.\n\nThis law, also known as the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act, Sonny Bono Act, or (derisively) the Mickey Mouse Protection Act, effectively \"froze\" the advancement date of the public domain in the United States for works covered by the older fixed term copyright rules. Under this Act, works made in 1923 or afterwards that were still protected by copyright in 1998 will not enter the public domain until 2019 or later. Mickey Mouse specifically, having first appeared in 1928, will be in a public domain work in 2024 or afterward (depending on the date of the product) unless the owner of the copyright releases them into the public domain before then. Unlike copyright extension legislation in the European Union, the Sonny Bono Act did not revive copyrights that had already expired. The Act did extend the terms of protection set for works that were already copyrighted, and is retroactive in that sense. However, works created before January 1, 1978, but not published or registered for copyright until recently, are addressed in a special section () and may remain protected until the end of 2047. The Act became on October 27, 1998.\n\nUnder the international Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works of 1886, the signatory countries are required to provide copyright protection for a minimum term of the life of the author plus fifty years. Additionally, they are permitted to provide for a longer term of protection. The Berne Convention did not come into force for the United States until it was ratified on March 1, 1989, but the U.S. had previously provided for the minimum copyright term the convention required in the Copyright Act of 1976.\n\nAfter the United States' accession to the Berne convention, a number of copyright owners successfully lobbied the U.S. Congress for another extension of the term of copyright, to provide for the same term of protection that exists in Europe. Since the 1993 Directive on harmonising the term of copyright protection, member states of the European Union implemented protection for a term of the author's life plus seventy years.\n\nThe act was named in memory of the late Congressman Sonny Bono, who died nine months before the act became law: he had previously been one of twelve sponsors of a similar bill.\n\nHouse members sympathetic to restaurant and bar owners, who were upset over ASCAP and BMI licensing practices, almost derailed the Act. As a result, the bill was amended to include the Fairness in Music Licensing Act, which exempted smaller establishments from needing a public performance license to play music.\n\nBoth houses of the United States Congress passed the act as Public Law 105-298 with a voice vote. President Bill Clinton signed the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act of 1998 on October 27, 1998.\n\nThe Senate Report gave the official reasons for passing copyright extension laws and was originally written in the context of the Copyright Term Extension Act of 1995.\n\nThe authors of the report believed that extending copyright protection would help the United States by providing more protection for their works in foreign countries and by giving more incentive to digitize and preserve works since there was an exclusive right in them. The report also included minority opinions by Herb Kohl and Hank Brown, who believed that the term extensions were a financial windfall to current owners of copyrighted material at the expense of the public's use of the material.\n\nSince 1990, The Walt Disney Company had lobbied for copyright extension. The legislation delayed the entry into the public domain of the earliest Mickey Mouse movies, leading detractors to the nickname \"The Mickey Mouse Protection Act\".\n\nIn addition to Disney, California congresswoman Mary Bono (Sonny Bono's widow and Congressional successor), and the estate of composer George Gershwin supported the act. Mary Bono, speaking on the floor of the United States House of Representatives, said:\nOther parties that lobbied in favor of the Bono Act were Time Warner, Universal, Viacom, the major professional sports leagues (NFL, NBA, NHL, MLB), and the family of slain singer Selena Quintanilla-Pérez.\n\nProponents of the Bono Act argue that it is necessary given that the life expectancy of humans has risen dramatically since Congress passed the original Copyright Act of 1790, that a difference in copyright terms between the United States and Europe would negatively affect the international operations of the entertainment industry, and that some works would be created under a longer copyright that would never be created under the existing copyright. They also claim that copyrighted works are an important source of income to the US and that media such as VHS, DVD, Cable and Satellite have increased the value and commercial life of movies and television series.\n\nProponents contend that Congress has the power to pass whatever copyright term it wants because the language \"To promote the progress of science and useful arts\" in the United States Constitution is not a substantive limitation on the powers of Congress, leaving the sole restriction that copyrights must only last for \"limited times.\" However, in what respect the granted time must be limited has never been determined, thus arguably even an absurdly long, yet finite, duration would still be a valid \"limited time\" according to the letter of the Constitution as long as Congress was ostensibly setting this limit to promote the progress of science and useful arts. This was one of the arguments that prevailed in the \"Eldred v. Ashcroft\" case, when the Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the CTEA. It is also pointed out by proponents that the extension did not prevent all works from going in the public domain. They note that the 1976 Copyright Act established that unpublished works created before 1978 would still begin entering the public domain January 1, 2003 (Known author: life of the author plus 70 years; anonymous/pseudoanonymous/unknown author/works-for-hire: 120 years from creation), and that the provision remained unaffected by the 1998 extension. They also claim that Congress has actually increased the scope of the public domain since, for the first time, unpublished works will enter the public domain.\n\nProponents believe that copyright encourages progress in the arts. With an extension of copyright, future artists have to create something original, rather than reuse old work, however, had the act been in place in the 1960s, it is unlikely that Andy Warhol would have been able to sell or even exhibit any of his work, since it all incorporated previously copyrighted material. Proponents contend that it is more important to encourage all creators to make new works instead of just copyright holders.\n\nProponents say that copyright better preserves intellectual property like movies, music and television shows. One example given is the case of the classic film \"It's a Wonderful Life\". Before Republic Pictures and Spelling Entertainment (who owned the motion picture rights to the short story and the music even after the film itself became public domain) began to assert their rights to the film, various local TV stations and cable networks broadcast the film endlessly. As \"New York Times\" reporter Bill Carter put it: \"the film's currency was being devalued.\"\n\nMany different versions of the film were made and most if not all were in horrible condition. After underlying rights to the film were enforced, it was given a high quality restoration that was hailed by critics. In addition, proponents note that once a work falls into the public domain there is no guarantee that the work will be more widely available or cheaper. Suggesting that quality copies of public domain works are not widely available, they argue that one reason for a lack of availability may be due to publishers' reluctance to publish a work that is in the public domain for fear that they will not be able to recoup their investment or earn enough profit.\n\nProponents reject the idea that only works in the public domain can provide artistic inspiration. They note that opponents fail to take into account that copyright applies only to expressions of ideas and not the ideas themselves. Thus artists are free to get ideas from copyrighted works as long as they do not infringe. Borrowing ideas and such are common in film, TV and music even with copyrighted works (see \"scènes à faire\", idea-expression divide and stock character). Works such as parody benefit from fair use.\n\nProponents also question the idea that extended copyright is \"corporate welfare.\" They state that many opponents also have a stake in the case, claiming that those arguing against copyright term extension are mostly businesses that depend on distributing films and videos that have lost their copyright.\n\nOne argument against the CTEA is focused on the First Amendment. In \"Harper & Row v. Nation Enterprises\", however, the court explained how a copyright \"respects and adequately safeguards the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment.\" In following this approach, courts have held that copyrights are \"categorically immune from challenges under the First Amendment.\"\n\nCritics of the CTEA argue that it was never the original intention for copyright protection to be extended in the United States. Attorney Jenny L. Dixon mentions that \"the United States has always viewed copyright primarily as a vehicle for achieving social benefit based on the belief that encouragement of individual effort by personal gain is the best way to advance the public welfare;\" however, \"the U.S. does not consider copyright as a 'natural right.'\" Dixon continues that with increased extensions on copyright protections, authors receive the benefits, while the public have more difficulty accessing these works, weakening public domain. One such extension Dixon mentions is the protection of a copyrighted work for the author's life followed by two generations, which opponents argue that there is no legislation nor intention for this copyright protection. \"These constitutionally-grounded arguments 'for limitations on proprietary rights' are being rejected time and time again.\"\n\nDennis S. Karjala, a law professor, led an effort to try to prevent the CTEA from being passed. He testified before the Committees on the Judiciary arguing \"that extending the term of copyright protection would impose substantial costs on the United States general public without supplying any public benefit. The extension bills represent a fundamental departure from the United States philosophy that intellectual property legislation serve a public purpose.\"\n\nAn editorial in \"The New York Times\" argued against the copyright extension on February 21, 1998. The article stated \"When Senator Hatch laments that George Gershwin's \"Rhapsody in Blue\" will soon 'fall into the public domain,' he makes the public domain sound like a dark abyss where songs go, never to be heard again. In fact, when a work enters the public domain it means the public can afford to use it freely, to give it new currency.\"\n\nOpponents of the \"Bono Act\" consider the legislation to be corporate welfare and have tried (but failed) to have it declared unconstitutional, claiming that such an act is not \"necessary and proper\" to accomplishing the Constitution's stated purpose of \"promot[ing] the progress of science and useful arts\". They argue that most works bring most of the profits during the first few years and are pushed off the market by the publishers thereafter. Thus there is little economic incentive in extending the terms of copyrights except for the few owners of franchises that are wildly successful, such as Disney. They also point out that the Tenth Amendment can be construed as placing limits on the powers that Congress can gain from a treaty. More directly, they see two successive terms of approximately 20 years each (the Copyright Act of 1976 and the Bono Act) as the beginning of a \"slippery slope\" toward a perpetual copyright term that nullifies the intended effect and violates the spirit of the \"for limited times\" language of the United States Constitution, Article I, section 8, clause 8.\n\nSome opponents have questioned the proponents' life expectancy argument, making the comparison between the growth of copyright terms and the term of patents in relation to the growth of life expectancies. Life expectancies have risen from about 35 years in 1800 to 77.6 years in 2002. While copyright terms have increased threefold, from only 28 years total (under the Copyright Act of 1790), life expectancies have roughly doubled. Moreover, life expectancy statistics are skewed due to historically high infant mortality rates. Correcting for infant mortality, life expectancy has only increased by fifteen years between 1850 and 2000.\nIn addition, copyright terms have increased significantly since the 1790 act, but patent terms have not been extended in parallel, with 20-year terms of protection remaining the (presumably under the laws) adequate compensation for innovation in a technical field. \nSeventeen prominent economists, including Kenneth Arrow, Ronald Coase, and Milton Friedman, submitted an amicus brief opposing the bill when it was challenged in court. They argued that the discounted present value of the extension was only a 1% increase for newly created works, while the increase in transaction costs created by extending the terms of old works would be very large and without any marginal benefit. According to Lawrence Lessig, when asked to sign the brief, Friedman had originally insisted that \"the word 'no-brainer' [appear] in it somewhere,\" but still agreed to sign it even though his condition was not met.\n\nAnother argument against the CTEA is focused on the First Amendment \"because of the prospective and retrospective application of the CTEA.\" The plaintiffs in \"Eldred v. Reno\" believed that \"the CTEA failed to sustain the intermediate level of scrutiny test afforded by the First Amendment because the government did not have an 'important' interest to justify withholding speech.\"\n\nOpponents also argue that the Act encourages \"offshore production.\" For example, derivative works could be created outside the United States in areas where copyright would have expired, and that US law would prohibit these works to US residents. For example, a movie of Mickey Mouse playing with a computer could be legally created in Russia, but the movie would be refused admission for importation by US Customs because of copyright, resulting in a deprivation to American children. Similarly, the first Winnie-the-Pooh book was published in 1926 and would have been public domain in 2001.\n\nOpponents identify another possible harm from copyright extension: loss of productive value of private collections of copyrighted works. A person who collected copyrighted works that would soon \"go out of copyright,\" intending to re-release them on copyright expiration, lost the use of his capital expenditures for an additional 20 years when the Bono Act passed. This is part of the underlying argument in \"Eldred v. Ashcroft\". The Bono Act is thus perceived to add an instability to commerce and investment, areas which have a better legal theoretical basis than intellectual property, whose theory is of quite recent development and is often criticized as being a corporate chimera. Conceivably, if one had made such an investment and then produced a derivative work (or perhaps even re-released the work \"in ipse\"), he could counter a suit made by the copyright holder by declaring that Congress had unconstitutionally made, ex post facto, a restriction on the previously unrestricted.\n\nHoward Besser questioned the proponents' argument that \"new works would not be created\", which implies that the goal of copyright is to make the creation of new works possible. However, the Framers of the United States Constitution evidently thought that unnecessary, instead restricting the goal of copyright to merely \"promot[ing] the progress of science and useful arts\". In fact, some works created under time-limited copyright would not be created under perpetual copyright because the creator of a distantly derivative work does not have the money and resources to find the owner of copyright in the original work and purchase a license, or the individual or privately held owner of copyright in the original work might refuse to license a use at any price (though a refusal to license may trigger a fair use safety valve). Thus they argue that a rich, continually replenished, public domain is necessary for continued artistic creation.\n\nThe House debated the Copyright Term Extension Act (House Resolution 390) on March 25, 1998. The term extension was almost completely supported, with only the mild criticism by Jim Sensenbrenner (Wisconsin) of \"H.R. 2589 provides a very generous windfall to the entertainment industry by extending the term of copyright for an additional 20 years.\" He suggested that it could be balanced by adding provisions from the Fairness in Music Licensing Act (H.R. 789). Lloyd Doggett (Texas) called the 'Fairness in Music Licensing Act' the 'Music Theft Act' and claimed that it was a mechanism to \"steal the intellectual property of thousands of small businesspeople who are song writers in this land.\" The majority of subsequent debate was over Sensenbrenner's House Amendment 532 to the CTEA. This amendment was over details of allowing music from radio and television broadcasts in small businesses to be played without licensing fees. An amendment to Sensenbrenner's amendment was proposed by Bill McCollum. The key differences between Sensenbrenner's proposal and McCollum's amendment were 1) local arbitration versus court lawsuits in rate disagreements, 2) all retail businesses versus only restaurants and bars, 3) 3500 square feet of general public area versus of gross area, 4) which music licensing societies it applied to (all versus ASCAP and BMI), and 5) freedom from vicarious liability for landlords and others leasing space versus no such provision. After debate (and the first verse of American Pie) the McCollum Amendment was rejected in by 259 to 150 and the Sensenbrenner amendment was passed by 297 to 112. The Copyright Term Extension Act H.R. 2589 was passed.\n\nThe term extension was supported for two key reasons. First, \"copyright industries give us [(the United States)] one of our most significant trade surpluses.\" Second, the recently enacted legislation in the European Union had extended copyright there for 20 years, and so EU works would be protected for 20 years longer than US works if the US did not enact similar term extensions. Howard Coble also stated that it was good for consumers since \"When works are protected by copyright, they attract investors who can exploit the work for profit.\" The term extension portion was supported by Songwriters Guild of America, National Academy of Songwriters, the Motion Picture Association of America, the Intellectual Property Law Section of the American Bar Association, the Recording Industry Association of America, National Music Publishers Association, the Information Technology Association of America and others.\n\nPublishers and librarians, among others, brought a lawsuit, \"Eldred v. Ashcroft\", to obtain an injunction on enforcement of the act. Oral arguments were heard by the U.S. Supreme Court on October 9, 2002. On January 15, 2003 the court held the CTEA constitutional by a 7–2 decision.\n\nIn 2003, the plaintiffs in the \"Eldred\" case began to shift their effort toward the U.S. Congress in support of a bill called the Public Domain Enhancement Act that would make the provisions of the Bono Act apply only to copyrights that had been registered with the Library of Congress.\n\nIn 2012, law professors Christopher Buccafusco and Paul J. Heald performed tests of three key justifications of copyright extension, namely: that public domain works will be underutilized and less available, will be oversaturated by poor quality copies, and poor quality derivative works will harm the reputation of the original works. They compared works from the two decades surrounding 1923 made available as audiobooks. They found that copyrighted works were available at a significantly lower rate than public domain ones, found no evidence of overexploitation driving down the price of works, and that the quality of the audiobook recordings did not significantly affect the price people were willing to pay for the books in print. Heald's later experiment analyzing a random sample of newly-posted works on Amazon.com revealed that public domain works from 1880 were posted at double the rate of copyrighted works from 1980.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7485", "title": "Corporation", "text": "Corporation\n\nA corporation is a company, a group of people or an organization authorized to act as a single entity (legally a person) and recognized as such in law. Early incorporated entities were established by charter (i.e. by an \"ad hoc\" act granted by a monarch or passed by a parliament or legislature). Most jurisdictions now allow the creation of new corporations through registration. Corporations enjoy limited liability for their investors, which can lead to losses being externalized from investors to the government or general public.\n\nCorporations come in many different types but are usually divided by the law of the jurisdiction where they are chartered into two kinds: by whether they can issue stock or not, or by whether they are formed to make a profit or not. Corporations can be divided by the number of owners: corporation aggregate or corporation sole. The subject of this article is a corporation aggregate. A corporation sole is a legal entity consisting of a single (\"sole\") incorporated office, occupied by a single (\"sole\") natural person.\n\nWhere local law distinguishes corporations by the ability to issue stock, corporations allowed to do so are referred to as \"stock corporations\", ownership of the corporation is through stock, and owners of stock are referred to as \"stockholders\" or \"shareholders\". Corporations not allowed to issue stock are referred to as \"non-stock\" corporations; those who are considered the owners of a non-stock corporation are persons (or other entities) who have obtained membership in the corporation and are referred to as a \"member\" of the corporation.\n\nCorporations chartered in regions where they are distinguished by whether they are allowed to be for profit or not are referred to as \"for profit\" and \"not-for-profit\" corporations, respectively.\n\nThere is some overlap between stock/non-stock and for-profit/not-for-profit in that not-for-profit corporations are always non-stock as well. A for-profit corporation is almost always a stock corporation, but some for-profit corporations may choose to be non-stock. To simplify the explanation, whenever \"Stockholder\" or \"shareholder\" is used in the rest of this article to refer to a stock corporation, it is presumed to mean the same as \"member\" for a non-profit corporation or for a profit, non-stock corporation.\n\nRegistered corporations have legal personality and their shares are owned by shareholders whose liability is generally limited to their investment. Shareholders do not typically actively manage a corporation; shareholders instead elect or appoint a board of directors to control the corporation in a fiduciary capacity. In most circumstances, a shareholder may also serve as a director or officer of a corporation.\n\nIn American English, the word \"corporation\" is most often used to describe large business corporations. In British English and in the Commonwealth countries, the term \"company\" is more widely used to describe the same sort of entity while the word \"corporation\" encompasses all incorporated entities. In American English, the word \"company\" can include entities such as partnerships that would not be referred to as companies in British English as they are not a separate legal entity.\n\nLate in the 19th century, a new form of company having the limited liability protections of a corporation, and the more favorable tax treatment of either a sole proprietorship or partnership was developed. While not a corporation, this new type of entity became very attractive as an alternative for corporations not needing to issue stock. In Germany, the organization was referred to as \"Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung\" or \"GmbH\". In the last quarter of the 20th Century this new form of non-corporate organization became available in the United States and other countries, and was known as the \"limited liability company\" or \"LLC\". Since the GmbH and LLC forms of organization are technically not corporations (even though they have many of the same features), they will not be discussed in this article.\n\nThe word \"corporation\" derives from \"corpus\", the Latin word for body, or a \"body of people\". By the time of Justinian (reigned 527–565), Roman law recognized a range of corporate entities under the names \"universitas\", \"corpus\" or \"collegium\". These included the state itself (the \"Populus Romanus\"), municipalities, and such private associations as sponsors of a religious cult, burial clubs, political groups, and guilds of craftsmen or traders. Such bodies commonly had the right to own property and make contracts, to receive gifts and legacies, to sue and be sued, and, in general, to perform legal acts through representatives. Private associations were granted designated privileges and liberties by the emperor.\n\nEntities which carried on business and were the subjects of legal rights were found in ancient Rome, and the Maurya Empire in ancient India. In medieval Europe, churches became incorporated, as did local governments, such as the Pope and the City of London Corporation. The point was that the incorporation would survive longer than the lives of any particular member, existing in perpetuity. The alleged oldest commercial corporation in the world, the Stora Kopparberg mining community in Falun, Sweden, obtained a charter from King Magnus Eriksson in 1347.\n\nIn medieval times, traders would do business through common law constructs, such as partnerships. Whenever people acted together with a view to profit, the law deemed that a partnership arose. Early guilds and livery companies were also often involved in the regulation of competition between traders.\n\nThe progenitors of the modern corporation were the chartered companies, such as the Dutch East India Company (VOC) and the Hudson's Bay Company, which were created to lead the colonial ventures of European nations in the 17th century. Acting under a charter sanctioned by the Dutch government, the Dutch East India Company defeated Portuguese forces and established itself in the Moluccan Islands in order to profit from the European demand for spices. Investors in the VOC were issued paper certificates as proof of share ownership, and were able to trade their shares on the original Amsterdam Stock Exchange. Shareholders were also explicitly granted limited liability in the company's royal charter.\n\nIn England, the government created corporations under a royal charter or an Act of Parliament with the grant of a monopoly over a specified territory. The best-known example, established in 1600, was the East India Company of London. Queen Elizabeth I granted it the exclusive right to trade with all countries to the east of the Cape of Good Hope. Some corporations at this time would act on the government's behalf, bringing in revenue from its exploits abroad. Subsequently, the Company became increasingly integrated with English and later British military and colonial policy, just as most corporations were essentially dependent on the Royal Navy's ability to control trade routes.\n\nLabeled by both contemporaries and historians as \"the grandest society of merchants in the universe\", the English East India Company would come to symbolize the dazzlingly rich potential of the corporation, as well as new methods of business that could be both brutal and exploitative. On 31 December 1600, Queen Elizabeth I granted the company a 15-year monopoly on trade to and from the East Indies and Africa. By 1711, shareholders in the East India Company were earning a return on their investment of almost 150 per cent. Subsequent stock offerings demonstrated just how lucrative the Company had become. Its first stock offering in 1713–1716 raised £418,000, its second in 1717–1722 raised £1.6 million.\nA similar chartered company, the South Sea Company, was established in 1711 to trade in the Spanish South American colonies, but met with less success. The South Sea Company's monopoly rights were supposedly backed by the Treaty of Utrecht, signed in 1713 as a settlement following the War of the Spanish Succession, which gave Great Britain an \"asiento\" to trade in the region for thirty years. In fact the Spanish remained hostile and let only one ship a year enter. Unaware of the problems, investors in Britain, enticed by extravagant promises of profit from company promoters bought thousands of shares. By 1717, the South Sea Company was so wealthy (still having done no real business) that it assumed the public debt of the British government. This accelerated the inflation of the share price further, as did the Bubble Act 1720, which (possibly with the motive of protecting the South Sea Company from competition) prohibited the establishment of any companies without a Royal Charter. The share price rose so rapidly that people began buying shares merely in order to sell them at a higher price, which in turn led to higher share prices. This was the first speculative bubble the country had seen, but by the end of 1720, the bubble had \"burst\", and the share price sank from £1000 to under £100. As bankruptcies and recriminations ricocheted through government and high society, the mood against corporations and errant directors was bitter.\n\nIn the late 18th century, Stewart Kyd, the author of the first treatise on corporate law in English, defined a corporation as:\n\nDue to the late 18th century abandonment of mercantilist economic theory and the rise of classical liberalism and laissez-faire economic theory due to a revolution in economics led by Adam Smith and other economists, corporations transitioned from being government or guild affiliated entities to being public and private economic entities free of governmental directions.\n\nAdam Smith wrote in his 1776 work \"The Wealth of Nations\" that mass corporate activity could not match private entrepreneurship, because people in charge of others' money would not exercise as much care as they would with their own.\n\nThe British Bubble Act 1720's prohibition on establishing companies remained in force until its repeal in 1825. By this point, the Industrial Revolution had gathered pace, pressing for legal change to facilitate business activity. The repeal was the beginning of a gradual lifting on restrictions, though business ventures (such as those chronicled by Charles Dickens in \"Martin Chuzzlewit\") under primitive companies legislation were often scams. Without cohesive regulation, proverbial operations like the \"Anglo-Bengalee Disinterested Loan and Life Assurance Company\" were undercapitalised ventures promising no hope of success except for richly paid promoters.\n\nThe process of incorporation was possible only through a royal charter or a private act and was limited, owing to Parliament's jealous protection of the privileges and advantages thereby granted. As a result, many businesses came to be operated as unincorporated associations with possibly thousands of members. Any consequent litigation had to be carried out in the joint names of all the members and was almost impossibly cumbersome. Though Parliament would sometimes grant a private act to allow an individual to represent the whole in legal proceedings, this was a narrow and necessarily costly expedient, allowed only to established companies.\n\nThen, in 1843, William Gladstone became the chairman of a Parliamentary Committee on Joint Stock Companies, which led to the Joint Stock Companies Act 1844, regarded as the first modern piece of company law. The Act created the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies, empowered to register companies by a two-stage process. The first, provisional, stage cost £5 and did not confer corporate status, which arose after completing the second stage for another £5. For the first time in history, it was possible for ordinary people through a simple registration procedure to incorporate. The advantage of establishing a company as a separate legal person was mainly administrative, as a unified entity under which the rights and duties of all investors and managers could be channeled.\n\nHowever, there was still no limited liability and company members could still be held responsible for unlimited losses by the company. The next, crucial development, then, was the Limited Liability Act 1855, passed at the behest of the then Vice President of the Board of Trade, Mr. Robert Lowe. This allowed investors to limit their liability in the event of business failure to the amount they invested in the company – shareholders were still liable directly to creditors, but just for the unpaid portion of their shares. (The principle that shareholders are liable to the corporation had been introduced in the Joint Stock Companies Act 1844).\n\nThe 1855 Act allowed limited liability to companies of more than 25 members (shareholders). Insurance companies were excluded from the act, though it was standard practice for insurance contracts to exclude action against individual members. Limited liability for insurance companies was allowed by the Companies Act 1862.\n\nThis prompted the English periodical \"The Economist\" to write in 1855 that \"never, perhaps, was a change so vehemently and generally demanded, of which the importance was so much overrated. \" The major error of this judgment was recognised by the same magazine more than 70 years later, when it claimed that, \"[t]he economic historian of the future. . . may be inclined to assign to the nameless inventor of the principle of limited liability, as applied to trading corporations, a place of honour with Watt and Stephenson, and other pioneers of the Industrial Revolution. \"\n\nThese two features – a simple registration procedure and limited liability – were subsequently codified into the landmark 1856 Joint Stock Companies Act. This was subsequently consolidated with a number of other statutes in the Companies Act 1862, which remained in force for the rest of the century, up to and including the time of the decision in \"Salomon v A Salomon & Co Ltd\".\n\nThe legislation shortly gave way to a railway boom, and from then, the numbers of companies formed soared. In the later nineteenth century, depression took hold, and just as company numbers had boomed, many began to implode and fall into insolvency. Much strong academic, legislative and judicial opinion was opposed to the notion that businessmen could escape accountability for their role in the failing businesses.\n\nIn 1892, Germany introduced the Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung with a separate legal personality and limited liability even if all the shares of the company were held by only one person. This inspired other countries to introduce corporations of this kind.\n\nThe last significant development in the history of companies was the 1897 decision of the House of Lords in \"Salomon v. Salomon & Co.\" where the House of Lords confirmed the separate legal personality of the company, and that the liabilities of the company were separate and distinct from those of its owners.\n\nIn the United States, forming a corporation usually required an act of legislation until the late 19th century. Many private firms, such as Carnegie's steel company and Rockefeller's Standard Oil, avoided the corporate model for this reason (as a trust). State governments began to adopt more permissive corporate laws from the early 19th century, although these were all restrictive in design, often with the intention of preventing corporations for gaining too much wealth and power.\n\nNew Jersey was the first state to adopt an \"enabling\" corporate law, with the goal of attracting more business to the state, in 1896. In 1899, Delaware followed New Jersey's lead with the enactment of an enabling corporate statute, but Delaware only became the leading corporate state after the enabling provisions of the 1896 New Jersey corporate law were repealed in 1913.\n\nThe end of the 19th century saw the emergence of holding companies and corporate mergers creating larger corporations with dispersed shareholders. Countries began enacting anti-trust laws to prevent anti-competitive practices and corporations were granted more legal rights and protections.\nThe 20th century saw a proliferation of laws allowing for the creation of corporations by registration across the world, which helped to drive economic booms in many countries before and after World War I. Another major post World War I shift was toward the development of conglomerates, in which large corporations purchased smaller corporations to expand their industrial base.\n\nStarting in the 1980s, many countries with large state-owned corporations moved toward privatization, the selling of publicly owned (or 'nationalised') services and enterprises to corporations. Deregulation (reducing the regulation of corporate activity) often accompanied privatization as part of a laissez-faire policy.\n\nA corporation is, at least in theory, owned and controlled by its members. In a joint-stock company the members are known as shareholders and each of their shares in the ownership, control, and profits of the corporation is determined by the portion of shares in the company that they own. Thus a person who owns a quarter of the shares of a joint-stock company owns a quarter of the company, is entitled to a quarter of the profit (or at least a quarter of the profit given to shareholders as dividends) and has a quarter of the votes capable of being cast at general meetings.\n\nIn another kind of corporation, the legal document which established the corporation or which contains its current rules will determine who the corporation's members are. Who a member is depends on what kind of corporation is involved. In a worker cooperative, the members are people who work for the cooperative. In a credit union, the members are people who have accounts with the credit union.\n\nThe day-to-day activities of a corporation are typically controlled by individuals appointed by the members. In some cases, this will be a single individual but more commonly corporations are controlled by a committee or by committees. Broadly speaking, there are two kinds of committee structure.\n\nHistorically, corporations were created by a charter granted by government. Today, corporations are usually registered with the state, province, or national government and regulated by the laws enacted by that government. Registration is the main prerequisite to the corporation's assumption of limited liability. The law sometimes requires the corporation to designate its principal address, as well as a registered agent (a person or company designated to receive legal service of process). It may also be required to designate an agent or other legal representative of the corporation.\n\nGenerally, a corporation files articles of incorporation with the government, laying out the general nature of the corporation, the amount of stock it is authorized to issue, and the names and addresses of directors. Once the articles are approved, the corporation's directors meet to create bylaws that govern the internal functions of the corporation, such as meeting procedures and officer positions.\n\nThe law of the jurisdiction in which a corporation operates will regulate most of its internal activities, as well as its finances. If a corporation operates outside its home state, it is often required to register with other governments as a foreign corporation, and is almost always subject to laws of its host state pertaining to employment, crimes, contracts, civil actions, and the like.\n\nCorporations generally have a distinct name. Historically, some corporations were named after their membership: for instance, \"The President and Fellows of Harvard College\". Nowadays, corporations in most jurisdictions have a distinct name that does not need to make reference to their membership. In Canada, this possibility is taken to its logical extreme: many smaller Canadian corporations have no names at all, merely numbers based on a registration number (for example, \"12345678 Ontario Limited\"), which is assigned by the provincial or territorial government where the corporation incorporates.\n\nIn most countries, corporate names include a term or an abbreviation that denotes the corporate status of the entity (for example, \"Incorporated\" or \"Inc.\" in the United States) or the limited liability of its members (for example, \"Limited\" or \"Ltd.\"). These terms vary by jurisdiction and language. In some jurisdictions, they are mandatory, and in others they are not. Their use puts everybody on constructive notice that they are dealing with an entity whose liability is limited: one can only collect from whatever assets the entity still controls when one obtains a judgment against it.\n\nSome jurisdictions do not allow the use of the word \"company\" alone to denote corporate status, since the word \"company\" may refer to a partnership or some other form of collective ownership (in the United States it can be used by a sole proprietorship but this is not generally the case elsewhere).\n\nDespite not being individual human beings, corporations, as far as US law is concerned, are legal persons, and have many of the same rights and responsibilities as natural persons do. For example, a corporation can own property, and can sue or be sued. Corporations can exercise human rights against real individuals and the state, and they can themselves be responsible for human rights violations. Corporations can be \"dissolved\" either by statutory operation, order of court, or voluntary action on the part of shareholders. Insolvency may result in a form of corporate failure, when creditors force the liquidation and dissolution of the corporation under court order, but it most often results in a restructuring of corporate holdings. Corporations can even be convicted of criminal offenses, such as fraud and manslaughter. However, corporations are not considered living entities in the way that humans are.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24139439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24139439", "title": "Crown Minerals Act 1991", "text": "Crown Minerals Act 1991\n\nThe Crown Minerals Act is an Act of Parliament passed in 1991 in New Zealand. It controls the management of Crown owed minerals. Potential changes to Schedule 4 of the Act created controversy and opposition in 2010. The definition of minerals under the Act is very broad - it includes gravel, industrial rocks, building stone, coal and petroleum. \n\nAll gold, silver, uranium and petroleum is under Crown ownership as well as any other minerals that are on Crown owned land.\n\nIn 2009 the National-led government announced that it would review Schedule 4 of the Act, a list of conservation areas for which access for mining cannot be granted by the Minister of Conservation. The proposal was condemned by critics not only because of the potential environmental impacts, but also because of the associated effects that were feared for the tourism industry.\n\nMajor NGOs such as Federated Mountain Clubs and Forest and Bird came out in opposition to the plans.\n\nIn March 2010 the government requested public feedback on a discussion document on the removal of 7000 ha of land from Schedule 4. There was a record 37,500 submissions on the document. A protest March Against Mining was organised by Greenpeace NZ on 1 May in Auckland and it attracted an estimated 40,000 people.\n\nOn 20 July 2010 the Government announced that in response to receiving 37,552 submissions, the vast majority of which opposed mining, it will not remove any land from Schedule 4.\n\nIn April 2013 a group of well-known New Zealanders including actress Lucy Lawless, Geoffrey Palmer and Anne Salmond, as well as Greenpeace and Forest & Bird, said proposed amendments by the Crown Minerals (Permitting and Crown Land) Bill suggested by Energy and Resources Minister Simon Bridges were \"a sledgehammer designed to attack peaceful protest at sea\". This Bill was passed as the Crown Minerals Amendment Act 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38273940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38273940", "title": "Crystal LED", "text": "Crystal LED\n\nCrystal LED (CLED) refers to a manufacturing technology of screens. It was invented by Sony and revealed at CES 2012.\n\nThis technology makes use of pixels mounted on each segment RGB of the display, such that each pixel is illuminated independently. This makes it the first \"true\" LED display.\n\nSony unveiled Crystal LED display technology in the CES 2012.\n\nThe following year, the company was deciding between CLED and OLED, and did not display CLED at the 2013 CES, but produced an OLED instead.\n\nAt CES 2017 Sony showcased the CLEDIS ™ (Crystal LED Integrated Structure) with a Crystal LED video wall approximately 32 by 9 feet with a resolution of 8000 x 2000 pixel. According to Sony it is composed of single display modules measuring 17 7/8\" (463.6mm) by 15 7/8\" (403.2mm) each. The individual modules were not visible to the human eye. Due to the modular structure of the system theoretically any resolution and size could be possible according to a Sony representative.\n\n"}
{"id": "368124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368124", "title": "Elections Canada", "text": "Elections Canada\n\nElections Canada () is an independent, non-partisan agency reporting directly to the Parliament of Canada. Its ongoing responsibility is to ensure that Canadians can exercise their choices in federal elections and referendums through an open and impartial process. Elections Canada is the sole agency responsible for administering Canadian federal elections. \n\nIts responsibilities include:\n\nThe House of Commons of Canada appoints the Chief Electoral Officer of Canada to head the agency. The Chief Electoral Officer in turn appoints the Commissioner of Canada Elections, who ensures that the \"Canada Elections Act\" is enforced; and the Broadcasting Arbitrator, who allocates paid and free broadcasting time during electoral events. The Chief Electoral Officer is seconded by the Deputy Chief Electoral Officer and Chief Legal Counsel and a staff of some 330 representing five executive directorates. During an election, staff at Elections Canada headquarters increases to 600 and to approximately 190,000 across Canada. Members of the general public are recruited to help run the election by manning polling stations, counting ballots, answering voters' questions, and providing other necessary services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39765024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39765024", "title": "Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography", "text": "Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography\n\nThe Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography (Rosreestr) () (prior to December 30, 2008, Federal Registration Service) is a federal agency in Russia, responsible for the organization of the Unified State Register of Rights on Real Estate and Transactions (), as well as the spatial data infrastructure of the Russian Federation. It is Russia's official real estate agency.\n\nAccording to the amendments to the list of names and abbreviations of the federal bodies of executive power (the order of the Presidential Administration of Russia and the Government of Russia of July 16, 2008 № 943/788) of 2 March 2009 number P41-6596 abbreviation of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography - Rosreestr.\n"}
{"id": "42985935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42985935", "title": "Gil Rémillard", "text": "Gil Rémillard\n\nGil Rémillard (born November 25, 1944) is a Canadian professor and politician.\n\nBorn in Hull, Quebec (now Gatineau, Quebec), Rémillard is the son of Carmel Rémillard and Jeannine Desjardins. He studied at the University of Ottawa, where he obtained a licence in law in 1968, and at the Université de Nice, where he obtained a State doctorate in constitutional law in 1972.\n\nFrom 1972 until 1985, he was professor of public law at Laval University, specializing in constitutional law and communications law. He was also legal counsel for departments of the governments of Quebec and of Canada.\n\nHe ran as a candidate for the Quebec Liberal Party in the 1985 Quebec general election in the riding of Jean-Talon and was elected to the National Assembly. In the second government of Robert Bourassa, he was appointed minister of International Relations (1985-1988), minister of Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs (1985-1994), minister of Justice (1988-1994) and minister of Public Security (1988-1989). He was reelected to the Assembly in the 1989 general election.\n\nHe resigned from the Assembly in 1994.\n\nHe founded the International conference of constitutional law, and the International institute of administrative studies. Mr. Rémillard is also the Founding Chairman of the International Economic Forum of the Americas (1994), which annually presents the Conference of Montreal in June, the Toronto Global Forum in October and the World Strategic Forum, held in Miami.\n\n"}
{"id": "4476878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4476878", "title": "Highways Act 1980", "text": "Highways Act 1980\n\nThe Highways Act 1980 (1980 c.66) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom dealing with the management and operation of the road network in England and Wales. It consolidated with amendments several earlier pieces of legislation. Many amendments relate only to changes of highway authority, to include new unitary councils and national parks. By virtue of the Local Government (Wales) Act 1994 and the Environment Act 1995, most references to local authority are taken to also include Welsh councils and national park authorities.\n\nBy virtue of the National Assembly for Wales (Transfer of Functions) Order 1999 most references to 'the Minister' are taken to include the National Assembly for Wales. The Act is split into 14 parts covering 345 sections, it also includes 25 schedules.\n\nPart 1 includes sections 1 to 9 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nPart 2 includes sections 10 to 23 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nPart 3 includes sections 24 to 35 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nPart 4 includes sections 36 to 61 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nUnder Section 38 of the Act, the highway authority may enter into an agreement with a developer of land on either side or both sides of a private street. The authority can agree to adopt the street as a highway maintainable at public expense when all the street works have been carried out to their satisfaction, and the developer agrees to carry them out within a stated time. It is customary for the developer to enter into a bond for their performance with a bank or building society.\n\nPart 5 includes sections 62 to 105 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nPart 6 includes sections 106 to 111 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nPart 7 includes sections 112 to 115 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nPart 8 includes sections 116 to 129 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nPart 9 includes sections 130 to 185 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nPart 10 includes sections 186 to 202 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nPart 11 includes sections 203 to 237 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nPart 12 includes sections 238 to 271 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nPart 13 includes sections 272 to 281 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nA section 278 agreement allows private developers to either fund or complete works to public highways outside or beyond the development site itself, such as traffic calming and capacity improvements. The document is signed by the local highway authority and the developer to ensure that works are completed to the highway authority's satisfaction.\n\nPart 14 includes sections 282 to 345 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nThe Act contains 25 schedules.\n\n"}
{"id": "19792916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19792916", "title": "Indochina Migration and Refugee Assistance Act", "text": "Indochina Migration and Refugee Assistance Act\n\nThe Indochina Migration and Refugee Assistance Act, passed on May 23, 1975, under President Gerald Ford, was a response to the Fall of Saigon and the end of the Vietnam War. Under this act, approximately 130,000 refugees from South Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia were allowed to enter the United States under a special status, and the act allotted for special relocation aid and financial assistance \n\nThe end of the Vietnam War left millions of Southeast Asians displaced. In South Vietnam alone, the war had created over 6 million refugees from 1965 to 1971. Preceding May 1975, the United States policy for Southeast Asian refugee had been to assist by resettling them in safer areas of their home nations. As the war began to come to a close in early 1975, the State Department prepared an evacuation plan for U.S. forces as well as 18,000 Vietnamese refugees, but it quickly became apparent that this evacuation plan did not meet the incredible need of the refugees. When the South Vietnam government rapidly deteriorated in April 1975, President Ford authorized an evacuation of up to 200,000 refugees.\n\nThe Indochina Migration and Refugee Act was signed on May 23, 1975, and allocated funding of $305 million for the Department of State and $100 million for the Department of Health, Education and Welfare for the resettlement of Vietnamese and Cambodian refugees in the United States. This act financed the transportation, processing, reception, and resettlement costs of more than 130,000 Vietnamese who had been evacuated from Vietnam during Operation Frequent Wind and who were granted parole by the Attorney General to enter the United States.\n\nMost of the refugees were initially transported to Guam for processing (See Operation New Life) and then transported onward to temporary immigration centers set up at Eglin Air Force Base, Florida; Camp Pendleton, California; Fort Chaffee, Arkansas; and Fort Indiantown Gap, Pennsylvania. Although each refugee underwent a security check and could theoretically be denied admittance if he or she \"violated a social norm, had a criminal record, or had offenses that were political in nature.\" However, involuntary repatriation to Vietnam was not an option. A team effort of dozens of immigration agencies aided in the resettlement process, including the United States Catholic Conference, Church World Service, International Rescue Committee, Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, the Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, the Tolstoy Foundation, the American Council for Nationalities Service, the American Fund for Czechoslovak Refugees, the Travelers Aid International Social Service of America, as well as several state and city service centers. In 1975, almost 130,000 refugees were paroled through this system, which finished its initial operations at Fort Chaffee in December of that same year. While the first year of the Act had come to a close, it opened the doors for years of mass refugee acceptance.\n\nAlthough many politicians thought it appropriate and necessary for the United States to provide a safe haven for those denied their human rights, some questioned the fairness of the Indochina Migration and Refugee Act for several reasons. Some, mostly conservative Republicans, argued that the refugees would never be able to assimilate to American culture and would detract from the value system already in place. Other legislators, like Representative Frank Sensenbrenner, were concerned with the price tag of committing so many immigrants, (roughly $1 billion per year) especially in a time of rising unemployment. While many refugees were receiving financial assistance, economic success did not come easily and this usurpation of federal funding became an issue that not only lawmakers were paying attention too, but also the American public. Another group of opponents focused on the growing need of poor Americans. Representative John Conyers asked, \"Should we be spending (federal dollars) on Vietnamese refugees or should we spend them on Detroit 'refugees?'\" A last group of opponents believed that presidents Ford and Carter were taking advantage of the parole system to allow mass numbers of people into the nation. In their eyes, the parole system should have been only used for people with specific cases, and certainly not for the processing of huge groups.\n\nSenator Edward Kennedy and Representative Liz Holtzman were the leaders of the refugee advocacy community, and the first supporters of the 1975 Act. They were backed by labor groups like the AFL-CIO and religious services, including the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society and Church World Service. Their goals to redefine the legal notions of \"refugee status\" and attain a more comprehensive amnesty policy were not realized until the Refugee Act of 1980.\n\nIn response to the new need of welfare assistance to the new relocated refugees, the Indochinese Refugee Assistance Program was developed. This gave clearance for any Vietnamese, Cambodian, or Lao refugees to tap into the same resources that Cuban refugees had attained in the early 1970s, which included financial assistance and health, employment, and education services.\nThe Indochina Migration and Refugee Act was a watershed moment in U.S. Asian immigration policy. It opened the gates for displaced persons from Southeast Asia and also served as a symbol of commitment to those affected by the devastation from the Vietnam War. The decision by President Ford to admit such a substantial number of refugees was very much against public opinion and (despite attempts at thinning the refugee flow) the Carter Administration continued to commit thousands of refugees each year. By 1978, the U.S. was receiving thousands of refugees who had made their way by boat through the dangerous waters of the Pacific. This continued until refugee policy was reformed with the Refugee Act of 1980. However, because of the positive global reception to the Indochina Migration and Refugee Act of 1975, the United States has continued to use a more liberal approach to refugee admittance, especially with those from areas the United States is militarily engaged with. This ended in 2001 with the war in Afghanistan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2430691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2430691", "title": "Integrated Circuit Topography Act", "text": "Integrated Circuit Topography Act\n\nThe Integrated Circuit Topography Act (\"An Act to provide for the protection of integrated circuit topographies and to amend certain Acts in consequence thereof\", C-37) is legislation passed by the Parliament of Canada in 1990 that regulates the intellectual property of integrated circuit topographies. It came into force in 1993. The Act provides exclusive rights for the creator of the integrated circuit topography and remedies to deter infringement. The exclusive right is transferable. To receive the exclusive right to an integrated circuit topography the topography must be registered at the Canadian Intellectual Property Office. Between 1993 and 1999 there were about 38 registrations under the Act.\n\nIntegrated Circuit Topographies (ICT) are electronic integrated circuits or IC products that are configured and interconnected. These creations are protected in Canada by the Integrated Circuit Topography Act, which gives the creator exclusive rights for a period of ten years after registration. Because products containing these circuits are often exported outside Canada, Canada has reciprocal agreements with other countries that also protect the design for ten years.\n\nSources:\nEntrepreneurship: Creating a Venture \nBy: Lori Cranson and Madeline Dennis\n\n"}
{"id": "43966506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43966506", "title": "Italian declaration of war on the United States", "text": "Italian declaration of war on the United States\n\nOn December 11, 1941, Italy declared war on the United States in response to that country's declaration of war upon the Empire of Japan following the attack on Pearl Harbor four days earlier. Germany also declared war on the U.S. the same day. The US immediately responded by declaring war on Germany and Italy, thus thrusting the United States in fighting two major fronts across the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans in World War II.\n\nOn December 7, 1941, 353 aircraft of the Empire of Japan attacked the U.S. naval base at Pearl Harbor and inflicted mass destruction to American life and property, beginning a war between Japan and the United States. On December 8, 1941, the U.S. declared war upon Japan in response to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. Four days later, Italian dictator, Benito Mussolini, made his declaration first - from the balcony over the Piazza Venezia in Rome - pledging the \"powers of the pact of steel\" were determined to win. Then Adolf Hitler made his announcement at the Reichstag in Berlin saying he had tried to avoid direct conflict with the U.S. but, under the Tripartite Pact signed on 27 September 1940, Germany was obliged to join with Italy to defend its ally Japan. Hitler stated that, \"After victory has been achieved, Germany, Italy and Japan will continue in closest co-operation with a view to establishing a new and just order.\"\n\nThis is another day of solemn decision in Italy’s history and of memorable events destined to give a new course to the history of continents.\n\nThe powers of the steel pact, Fascist Italy and Nationalist Socialist Germany, ever closely linked, participate from today on the side of heroic Japan against the United States of America.\n\nThe Tripartite Pact becomes a military alliance which draws around its colors 250,000,000 men determined to do all in order to win.\n\nNeither the Axis nor Japan wanted an extension of the conflict.\n\nOne man, one man only, a real tyrannical democrat, through a series of infinite provocations, betraying with a supreme fraud the population of his country, wanted the war and had prepared for it day by day with diabolical obstinacy.\n\nThe formidable blows that on the immense Pacific expanse have been already inflicted on American forces show how prepared are the soldiers of the Empire of the Rising Sun.\n\nI say to you, and you will understand, that it is a privilege to fight with them.\n\nToday, the Tripartite Pact, with the plenitude of its forces and its moral and material resources, is a formidable instrument for the war and a certainty for victory.\n\nTomorrow, the Tripartite Pact will become an instrument of just peace between the peoples.\n\nItalians! Once more arise and be worthy of this historical hour!\n\nWe shall win.\n\n"}
{"id": "20847903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20847903", "title": "Lampleigh v Brathwait", "text": "Lampleigh v Brathwait\n\nLampleigh v Braithwait [1615] EWHC KB J 17, (1615) Hobart 105, 80 ER 255 is a case on \"implied assumpsit\" and past consideration in English contract law.\n\nBraithwait killed a man called Patrick Mahume unlawfully. He asked Lampleigh to ride to the King and petition for a pardon. Lampleigh was successful and, delighted, Braithwait promised £100 to Lampleigh; but he never paid up and Lampleigh sued. Braithwait said that because the service had been performed in the past, there was no good consideration at the time for the promise, regardless of the fact that Lampleigh was successful in securing a pardon.\n\nThe Court of the King's Bench held that there was an implied understanding (i.e. implied assumpsit, or \"assumption\" of obligation) that a fee would be paid. Where a past benefit was conferred at the beneficiary's request, and where a reward would reasonably be expected, the promisor would be bound by his promise.\n\nIn later centuries, judges have pondered some unsettled issues arising from this case. What if the promised £100 was insufficient? What if nothing was promised; would \"quantum merit\" be available?\n\n"}
{"id": "302464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302464", "title": "Legislative council", "text": "Legislative council\n\nA legislative council is the name given to the legislature, or one of the legislative chambers of a nation, colony, or subnational division such as a province or state; or, in the United States, a council within a legislature which supervises nonpartisan legislative support staff. A member of a legislative council is commonly referred to as an MLC.\n\nIn the British Empire, the authority under which legislative councils have been constituted has varied: some under the prerogative, others by act of parliament, and some by commission and royal instructions. Many are or were the upper house in a bicameral legislature and many had members who were appointed, not elected.\n\nIn India, the Vidhan Parishad is another name for the Legislative Council in those states with bicameral legislatures.\n\nIn American English, the term \"legislative council\" has acquired a slightly different meaning since the 1930s. Today, it refers to a joint committee with members from both houses of the state legislature, which supervises a staff of attorneys, accountants, and researchers charged with providing strictly nonpartisan support services to the legislature or to particular committees. The concept of the legislative council was first developed in Kansas and was implemented by the Kansas Legislature in 1933. Eventually, a majority of U.S. states adopted legislative councils, but under a variety of names. Kansas still uses a legislative council, although it was converted into the Kansas Legislative Coordinating Council in 1971. Today, legislative councils actually operating under that name exist in the states of Arkansas, Arizona, Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, Texas, and Wisconsin. Several states prefer to use the term \"commission\" for the same thing, including New Jersey and Nevada.\n\nA few states, like California, have a \"legislative counsel,\" not \"council,\" who is appointed by a vote of the entire legislature and is thus responsible to the body as a whole rather than a \"council\" within it.\n\n"}
{"id": "20569578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20569578", "title": "Lipkin Gorman v Karpnale Ltd", "text": "Lipkin Gorman v Karpnale Ltd\n\nAlthough the case is most famous for the transformative judgment handed down by the House of Lords in relation to restitution and unjust enrichment, the decision of the Court of Appeal is also an important banking law decision in its own right, setting out key principles relating to the duty of care owed by bankers to their customers. There was no appeal against that part of the decision to the House of Lords.\n\nNorman Barry Cass was a partner in a solicitors' firm called Lipkin Gorman. He was an authorised signatory at the firm’s Lloyds Bank account. He took out £220,000 and used it for gambling at the Playboy Club, 45 Park Lane, London which was owned by Karpnale Ltd. Between March and November 1980, the club won £154,695 of the stolen money (the rest paid back to Mr Cass in ‘winnings’). Mr Cass fled to Israel, but was brought back and sentenced to three years prison for theft in 1984. Lipkin Gorman sued the club for return of the stolen money. At the time, gambling contracts were contrary to public policy, and therefore void under the Gaming Act 1845 section 18.\n\nAlliott J in the High Court, and then the Court of Appeal (May LJ and Parker LJ, but Nicholls LJ dissenting), dismissed the majority of Lipkin Gorman's claims against the club (save only for a relatively small claim in conversion relating to a bank draft). Lipkin Gorman were partially successful against their bank in the High Court, but lost in the Court of Appeal on appeal and cross-appeal, and they abandoned their claim against the bank in the House of Lords.\n\nThe trial at first instance lasted three weeks and came before Alliot J. The Court of Appeal noted that the trial judge had a particularly complex task, trying to reconcile a large number of different pleaded causes of action together with complex and sprawling allegations of fact.\n\nAt first instance the claims were equally focussed upon the club and the firm's bankers (against whom the claimant solicitors pleaded both negligence and liability as constructive trustees). Unusually, at the end of the plaintiff's case, the bank's counsel (Jonathan Sumption QC) made a submission of \"no case to answer\" and offered no evidence. \n\nAlliot J gave judgment against the club, but only for conversion of a bank draft for a relatively small amount. The larger claim for money had and received failed. Against the bank the judge made a stinging series of findings, including that \"Mr Fox [manager of the bank] deliberately and systematically suppressed his knowledge of Cass' gambling from coming to his superior's notice\", and that \"Mr Fox deliberately lied to Mr Gorman.\" \n\nIn the Court of Appeal all three judges gave reasoned judgments. Both May LJ and Parker LJ dismissed the claims of the firm against the club for money had and received on the basis that the club had provided good consideration. Although they accepted that gaming contracts were void, prior to the gambling the money was exchanged for chips, which were as good as cash inside the club for gambling or paying for drinks or other entertainment.\n\nAlthough the decision of the Court of Appeal is often overlooked because of the importance of the House of Lord's judgment, the judgments of the Court of Appeal on the issue of bank liability were not appealed, and remain the leading authority on the duty of care owed by a bank to its customer. Unfortunately, the discussion of the issue in the Court of Appeal was complicated because of the way the plaintiff law firm's claim was pleaded and the offering of no evidence by the bank. Nonetheless the comments of the Court of Appeal are important.\n\nThere were two broad claims against the bank: one as constructive trustee and other for negligence. Each alleged that the bank knew or ought to have known that Cass was drawing on the firm's bank account for the purposes of satisfying his personal gambling problem, and yet they failed to take any action. The Court of Appeal accepted counsel's submission that the bank could not be liable as constructive trustee if it was not shown to be at least negligent. May LJ also asserted nothing less than actual knowledge should constitute a third party as constructive trustee. The Court further held that the bank had not been negligent, and thus could not be liable as constructive trustee. The Court noted the large number of cheques cleared daily, and that in this case only approximately one-seventh of the cheques drawn on the firm's account were fraudulent (and that the firm was one of over 2,800 customers of the bank branch). May LJ held \"There is nothing ... express or implied, which could require a banker to consider the commercial wisdom or otherwise of the particular transaction. ... In my opinion any implied term requiring the banker to exercise care must be limited. To a substantial extent the banker's obligation under such a contract is largely automatic or mechanical. Presented with a cheque drawn in accordance with the terms of that contract, the bank must honour it save in what I would expect to be exceptional circumstances.\"\n\nThe House of Lords held that £150,960 should be repaid as money had and received, and the club was also liable for damages of £3,735 to the solicitors for conversion of a banker’s draft that had been used once for gambling, rather than cash.\n\nLord Templeman said, the money could be recovered.\n\nLord Goff said that the change of position defence was debated but\n\nAs a result, the defence of change of position was recognized for the first time in English law and it succeeded as a partial defence here. Because the winnings have been paid out to Cass, the club has effectively changed its position and its liability is limited to the remaining sum of £150,960.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36724129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36724129", "title": "List of Tamil Nadu Government's Law Colleges", "text": "List of Tamil Nadu Government's Law Colleges\n\nThis article is a list of the Government of Tamil Nadu's law colleges.\n\nThese colleges are established and maintained by the Department of Legal Studies of the Government of Tamil Nadu.\n"}
{"id": "2293959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293959", "title": "List of law schools in Poland", "text": "List of law schools in Poland\n\nThis is a list of law schools in Poland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7666940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7666940", "title": "Marjorie Heins", "text": "Marjorie Heins\n\nMarjorie Heins (b.1946) is a First Amendment lawyer, writer and founder of the Free Expression Policy Project.\n\nHeins received a B.A., with distinction, from Cornell University in 1967. She received her J.D. (magna cum laude) from Harvard Law School in 1978. She was admitted to the bar of Massachusetts in 1978 and New York in 1993.\n\nHeins started as a journalist in the 1970s in San Francisco on publications including the underground San Francisco Express Times. She was also an anti-war activist during the Vietnam War.\n\nIn the 1980s as staff counsel at the Massachusetts chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Heins litigated numerous civil rights matters, including LGBT rights and free speech. One matter involved a litigation against Boston University for the discharge of the Dean of Students on the basis of her complaints about discrimination on the part of the university. This story is told in \"Cutting the Mustard\" (1988). Heins also investigated the Boston Police Department's treatment of the notorious Carol Stuart murder case, in which a white man murdered his wife but claimed to be a victim of a carjacking by an African American man.\n\nFrom 1989-91, she served as editor-in-chief of the \"Massachusetts Law Review.\" In 1991-92, she was chief of the Civil Rights Division at the Massachusetts Attorney General's Office.\n\nShe founded and directed the Arts Censorship Project at the American Civil Liberties Union from 1991-1998, during the years in which arts censorship were a particularly controversial and active field. During that time, she worked on a number of high-profile arts censorship matters. Heins was co-counsel on the ACLU's \"Reno v. ACLU\" brief to the U.S. Supreme Court, which ultimately led to striking the Communications Decency Act as an unconstitutional violation of the First Amendment. Heins was also co-counsel on Karen Finley's landmark lawsuit against the National Endowment for the Arts, \"National Endowment for the Arts v. Finley\".\n\nHeins has taught at Boston College Law School, Florida State University College of Law, the University of California-San Diego (UCSD), New York University (NYU), Tufts University, and the American University of Paris.\n\nAt UCSD, she created courses in \"Censorship, Culture and American Law\" and \"Political Repression and the Press: Red Scares in U.S. History and Law.\" At NYU, she taught \"Censorship and American Culture.\" At the American University of Paris, she taught \"Free Expression and the Media: Policy and Law.\"\n\nShe was a fellow at NYU's Brennan Center for Justice, 2004-2007. In 2011, she was a fellow at NYU's Frederic Ewen Academic Freedom Center while researching her book, \"Priests of Our Democracy: The Supreme Court, Academic Freedom, and the Anti-Communist Purge\".\n\nShe is currently an adjunct professor in the Department of Media, Culture, and Communication of NYU's Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development.\n\nHeins' litigation includes:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14693380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14693380", "title": "Materiality (law)", "text": "Materiality (law)\n\nMateriality is the significance of facts to the matter at hand.\n\nAn item of evidence is said to be material if it has some logical connection to a fact of consequence to the outcome of a case. Materiality, along with probative value, is one of two characteristics that make a given item of evidence relevant. This largely depends on the elements of the cause of action the plaintiff seeks to prove, or that the prosecutor must prove in a criminal case to secure a conviction. Which issues must be factually proven are therefore a product of the underlying substantive law.\n\nWithin the context of corporate and securities law in the United States, a fact is defined as material if there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable shareholder would consider it important in deciding how to vote their shares or invest their money. In this regard, it is similar to the accounting term of the same name.\n\nMateriality is particularly important in the context of securities law, because under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, a company can be held civilly or criminally liable for false, misleading, or omitted statements of fact in proxy statements and other documents, if the fact in question is found by the court to have been material pursuant to Rule 10b-5.\n\nIn the law of contracts, a \"material term\" in a contract is a term or provision that concerns significant issues, such as subject matter, price, quantity, type of work to be done, and terms of payment or performance.\n\nIn United States patent law, information is material to patentability and therefore subject to the duty of disclosure if\n\n"}
{"id": "193687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=193687", "title": "Maximilian I of Mexico", "text": "Maximilian I of Mexico\n\nMaximilian I (Ferdinand Maximilian Joseph Maria; 6 July 1832 – 19 June 1867) was the only monarch of the Second Mexican Empire. He was a younger brother of the Austrian emperor Franz Joseph I. After a distinguished career in the Austrian Navy as its commander, he accepted an offer by Napoleon III of France to rule Mexico, conditional on a national plebiscite in his favour. France (along with the United Kingdom and Spain, who both withdrew the following year after negotiating agreements with Mexico's republican government) invaded the Mexican Republic in the winter of 1861, as part of the War of the French Intervention. Seeking to legitimize French rule in the Americas, Napoleon III invited Maximilian to establish a new Mexican monarchy. With the support of the French army and a group of conservative Mexican monarchists hostile to the liberal administration of the new Mexican president, Benito Juárez, Maximilian traveled to Mexico and declared himself Emperor of Mexico on 10 April 1864.\n\nThe Empire managed to gain recognition by several European powers including Britain, Austria, and Prussia. The United States however, continued to recognize Juárez as the legal president of Mexico. Maximilian never completely defeated the Mexican Republic; Republican forces led by President Benito Juárez continued to be active during Maximilian's rule. With the end of the American Civil War in 1865, the United States (which had been too distracted by its own civil war to confront the Europeans' 1861 invasion of what it considered to be its sphere of influence) began more explicit aid of President Juárez's forces. Matters worsened for Maximilian after French armies withdrew from Mexico in 1866. His self-declared empire collapsed, and he was captured and executed by the Mexican government, which then restored the Mexican Republic.\n\nHis wife, Charlotte of Belgium (Carlota), who had left for Europe earlier to try to build support for her husband's regime, suffered an emotional collapse after his death and apparently became insane.\n\nMaximilian was born on 6 July 1832 in the Schönbrunn Palace in Vienna, capital of the Austrian Empire. He was baptized the following day as \"Ferdinand Maximilian Joseph\". The first name honored his godfather and paternal uncle, The King of Hungary and the second honored his maternal grandfather, The King of Bavaria.\n\nHis father was Archduke Franz Karl, the second surviving son of The Emperor of Austria, during whose reign he was born. Maximilian was thus a member of the House of Habsburg-Lorraine, a female-line cadet branch of the House of Habsburg. His mother was Princess Sophie of Bavaria, a member of the House of Wittelsbach. Intelligent, ambitious and strong-willed, Sophie had little in common with her husband, whom historian Richard O'Conner characterized as \"an amiably dim fellow whose main interest in life was consuming bowls of dumplings drenched in gravy.\" Despite their different personalities, the marriage was fruitful, and after four miscarriages, four sons—including Maximilian—would reach adulthood.\n\nRumors at the court stated that Maximilian was in fact the product of an extramarital affair between his mother and his first cousin Napoleon II, The Duke of Reichstadt, the only legitimate son of French Emperor Napoleon I; the Duke's mother was Marie Louise, Duchess of Parma, former Empress of the French, Maximilian's aunt. The existence of an illicit affair between Sophie and the Duke, and any possibility that Maximilian was conceived from such a union, are disputed by (mainly British) historians.\n\nAdhering to traditions inherited from the Spanish court during Habsburg rule, Maximilian's upbringing was closely supervised. Until his sixth birthday, he was cared for by Baroness Louise von Sturmfeder, who was his \"aja\" (then rendered \"nurse\", now nanny). Afterwards, his education was entrusted to a tutor. Most of Maximilian's day was spent in study. The thirty-two hours per week of classes at age 7 steadily grew until it reached fifty-five hours per week by the time he was 17. The disciplines were diverse: ranging from history, geography, law and technology, to languages, military studies, fencing and diplomacy. In addition to his native German, he eventually learned to speak Hungarian, Slovak, English, French, Italian and Spanish. From an early age, Maximilian tried to surpass his older brother Francis Joseph in everything; attempting to prove to all that he was the better qualified of the two and thus deserving of more than second place status.\n\nThe highly restrictive environment of the Austrian court was not enough to repress Maximilian's natural openness. He was joyful, highly charismatic and able to captivate those around him with ease. Although he was a charming boy, he was also undisciplined. He mocked his teachers and was often the instigator of pranks—even including his uncle, Emperor Ferdinand I, among his victims. Nonetheless Maximilian was very popular. His attempts to outshine his older brother and ability to charm opened a rift with the aloof and self-contained Franz Joseph that would widen as years passed, and the times when both were close friends in childhood would be all but forgotten.\n\nIn 1848, revolutions erupted across Europe. In the face of protests and riots, Emperor Ferdinand I abdicated in favor of Maximilian's brother, who became Francis Joseph I. Maximilian accompanied him on campaigns to put down rebellions throughout the Empire. Only in 1849 would the revolution be stamped out in Austria, with hundreds of rebels executed and thousands imprisoned. Maximilian was horrified at what he regarded as senseless brutality and openly complained about it. He would later remark: \"We call our age the Age of Enlightenment, but there are cities in Europe where, in the future, men will look back in horror and amazement at the injustice of tribunals, which in a spirit of vengeance condemned to death those whose only crime lay in wanting something different to the arbitrary rule of governments which placed themselves above the law.\"\n\nMaximilian was a particularly clever boy who displayed considerable culture in his taste for the arts, and he demonstrated an early interest in science, especially botany. When he entered military service, he was trained in the Austrian Navy. He threw himself into this career with so much zeal that he quickly rose to high command.\n\nHe was made a lieutenant in the navy at the age of eighteen. In 1854, he sailed as commander in the corvette \"Minerva\", on an exploring expedition along the coast of Albania and Dalmatia. Maximilian was especially interested in the maritime and undertook many long-distance journeys (for Brazil) on the frigate \"Elisabeth\". In 1854, he was only 22 years—as a younger brother of the Emperor, and thus a member of the ruling family—he was appointed as commander in chief of the Austrian Navy (1854–1861), which he reorganized in the following years. Like Archduke Friedrich (1821–1847) before him, Maximilian had a keen private interest in the fleet, and with him the Austrian naval force gained an influential supporter from the ranks of the Imperial Family. This was crucial as sea power was never a priority of Austrian foreign policy and the navy itself was relatively little known or supported by the public. It was only able to draw significant public attention and funds when it was actively supported by an imperial prince. As Commander-in-Chief, Maximilian carried out many reforms to modernise the naval forces, and was instrumental in creating the naval port at Trieste and Pola (now Pula) as well as the battle fleet with which admiral Wilhelm von Tegetthoff would later secure his victories. He also initiated a large-scale scientific expedition (1857–1859) during which the frigate SMS \"Novara\" became the first Austrian warship to circumnavigate the globe.\n\nIn his political views, Archduke Maximilian was very much influenced by the progressive ideas in vogue at the time. He had a reputation as a liberal, and this was one of several considerations leading to his appointment as Viceroy of the Kingdom of Lombardy–Venetia in February 1857. Emperor Franz Joseph had decided on the need to replace the elderly soldier Joseph Radetzky von Radetz in this position; to divert growing discontent amongst the Italian population through token liberalization; and finally to encourage a degree of personal loyalty to the Habsburg dynasty.\nOn 27 July 1857, in Brussels, Archduke Maximilian married his second cousin Princess Charlotte of Belgium, the daughter of Leopold I, King of the Belgians, and Louise of Orléans. She was first cousin to both Queen Victoria and Prince Albert. Maximilian and Charlotte had no children together.\n\nThey lived as the Austrian regents in Milan or Viceroys of Lombardy-Venetia from 1857 until 1859, when Emperor Francis Joseph, angered by his brother's liberal policies, dismissed him. Shortly after, Austria lost control of most of its Italian possessions. Maximilian then retired to Trieste, near which he built the castle Miramare. At the same time the couple acquired a converted monastery on the island of Lokrum as a holiday residence. Both estates had extensive gardens, reflecting Maximilian's horticultural interests.\n\nIn 1859, Ferdinand Maximilian was first approached by Mexican monarchists—members of the Mexican aristocracy, led by local nobleman José Pablo Martínez del Río—with a proposal to become the Emperor of Mexico. The Habsburg family had ruled the Viceroyalty of New Spain from its establishment until the Spanish throne was inherited by the Bourbons. Maximilian was considered to have more potential legitimacy than other royal figures, but was unlikely to ever rule in Europe due to his elder brother. On 20 October 1861 in Paris, Maximilian received a letter from Gutierrez de Estrada asking him to take the Mexican throne. He did not accept at first, but sought to satisfy his restless desire for adventure with a botanical expedition to the tropical forests of Brazil. However, Maximilian changed his mind after the French intervention in Mexico. At the invitation of Napoleon III, after General Élie-Frédéric Forey's capture of Mexico City and a French-staged plebiscite that confirmed the proclamation of the empire, Maximilian consented to accept the crown in October 1863. His decision involved the loss of all his rights of nobility in Austria, though he was not informed of this until just before he left. Archduchess Charlotte was thereafter known as \"Her Imperial Majesty Empress Carlota\".\n\nIn April 1864, Archduke Ferdinand Maximilian stepped down from his duties as Chief of Naval Section of the Austrian Navy. He traveled from Trieste aboard SMS \"Novara\", escorted by the frigates (Austrian) and \"Thémis\" (French), and the Imperial yacht \"Phantasie\" led the warship procession from his palace at Miramare out to sea. They received a blessing from Pope Pius IX, and Queen Victoria ordered the Gibraltar garrison to fire a salute for Maximilian's passing ship.\n\nThe new emperor of Mexico landed at Veracruz on 29 May 1864, and received a cold reception from the townspeople. Veracruz was a liberal town, and the liberal voters were opposed to having Maximilian on the throne. He had the backing of Mexican conservatives and Napoleon III, but from the very outset he found himself involved in serious difficulties since the Liberal forces led by President Benito Juárez refused to recognize his rule. There was continuous warfare between his French troops and the Republicans.\n\nThe Imperial couple chose as their seat Mexico City. The Emperor and Empress set up their residence at Chapultepec Castle, located on the top of a hill formerly at the outskirts of Mexico City that had been a retreat of Aztec emperors. Maximilian ordered a wide avenue cut through the city from Chapultepec to the city center; originally named \"Paseo de la Emperatriz\", it is today Mexico City's famous boulevard, \"Paseo de la Reforma\". He also acquired a country retreat at Cuernavaca. The royal couple made plans to be crowned at the Catedral Metropolitana but, due to the constant instability of the regime, the coronation was never carried out. Maximilian was shocked by the living conditions of the poor in contrast to the magnificent haciendas of the upper class. Empress Carlota began holding parties for the wealthy Mexicans to raise money for poor houses. One of Maximilian's first acts as Emperor was to restrict working hours and abolish child labour. He cancelled all debts for peasants over 10 pesos, restored communal property and forbade all forms of corporal punishment. He also broke the monopoly of the Hacienda stores and decreed that henceforth peons could no longer be bought and sold for the price of their debt.\n\nAs Maximilian and Carlota had no children, they adopted Agustín de Iturbide y Green and his cousin Salvador de Iturbide y de Marzán, both grandsons of Agustín de Iturbide, who had briefly reigned as Emperor of Mexico in the 1820s. Iturbide and his cousin were granted the title \"Prince de Iturbide\" and style of \"Highness\" by imperial decree of 16 September 1865 and were ranked after the reigning family. They intended to groom Agustín as heir to the throne. However, Maximilian never intended to give the crown to the Iturbides because he considered that they were not of royal blood. It was all a charade directed at his brother Archduke Karl Ludwig of Austria, as he explained himself: either Karl would give him one of his sons as an heir, or else he would bequeath everything to the Iturbide children.\n\nTo the dismay of his conservative allies, Maximilian upheld several liberal policies proposed by the Juárez administration – such as land reforms, religious freedom, and extending the right to vote beyond the landholding class. At first, Maximilian offered Juárez an amnesty if he would swear allegiance to the crown, even offering the post of Prime Minister, which Juárez refused.\n\nAfter the end of the American Civil War, the United States government used increasing diplomatic pressure to persuade Napoleon III to end French support of Maximilian and to withdraw French troops from Mexico. Washington began supplying partisans of Juárez and his ally Porfirio Díaz by \"losing\" arms depots for them at \"El Paso del Norte\" at the Mexican border. The prospect of a United States invasion to reinstate Juárez caused a large number of Maximilian's loyal adherents to abandon the cause and leave the capital.\nMeanwhile, Maximilian invited ex-Confederates to move to Mexico in a series of settlements called the \"Carlota Colony\" and the New Virginia Colony with a dozen others being considered, a plan conceived by the internationally renowned U.S. Navy oceanographer and inventor Matthew Fontaine Maury. Maximilian also invited settlers from \"any country\" including Austria and the other German states.\n\nMaximilian issued his \"Black Decree\" on October 3, 1865. Its first article stated that: \"All individuals forming a part of armed bands or bodies existing without legal authority, whether or not proclaiming a political pretext, whatever the number of those forming such band, or its organization, character, and denomination, shall be judged militarily by the courts martial. If found guilty, even though only of the fact of belonging to an armed band, they shall be condemned to capital punishment, and the sentence shall be executed within twenty-four hours\". It is calculated that more than eleven thousand of Juarez's supporters were executed as a result of the \"Black Decree\", but at the end it only inflamed the Mexican Resistance.\n\nNevertheless, by 1866, the imminence of Maximilian's abdication seemed apparent to almost everyone outside Mexico. That year, Napoleon III withdrew his troops in the face of Mexican resistance and U.S. opposition under the Monroe Doctrine, as well as increasing his military contingent at home to face the ever-growing Prussian military and Bismarck. Carlota travelled to Europe, seeking assistance for her husband's regime in Paris and Vienna and, finally, in Rome from Pope Pius IX. Her efforts failed, and she suffered a deep emotional collapse and never went back to Mexico. After her husband was executed by Republicans the following year, she spent the rest of her life in seclusion, never admitting her husband's death, first at Miramare Castle in Trieste, Austria-Hungary, then Italy, and then at Bouchout Castle in Meise, Belgium, where she died on 19 January 1927.\n\nThough urged to abandon Mexico by Napoleon III himself, whose troop withdrawal from Mexico was a great blow to the Mexican Imperial cause, Maximilian refused to desert his followers. Maximilian allowed his followers to determine whether or not he abdicated. Faithful generals such as Miguel Miramón, Leonardo Márquez, and Tomás Mejía vowed to raise an army that would challenge the invading Republicans. Maximilian fought on with his army of 8,000 Mexican loyalists. Withdrawing, in February 1867, to Santiago de Querétaro, he sustained a siege for several weeks, but on May 11 resolved to attempt an escape through the enemy lines. This plan was sabotaged by Colonel Miguel López who was bribed by the Republicans to open a gate and lead a raiding party, though with the agreement that Maximilian would be allowed to escape.\n\nThe city fell on 15 May 1867 and Maximilian was captured the next morning after the failure of an attempt to escape through Republican lines by a loyal hussar cavalry brigade led by Felix Salm-Salm. Following a court-martial, he was sentenced to death. Many of the crowned heads of Europe and other prominent figures (including the eminent liberals Victor Hugo and Giuseppe Garibaldi) sent telegrams and letters to Mexico pleading desperately for the Emperor's life to be spared. Although he liked Maximilian on a personal level, Juárez refused to commute the sentence in view of the Mexicans who had been killed fighting against Maximilian's forces, and because he believed it was necessary to send a message that Mexico would not tolerate any government imposed by foreign powers. Felix Salm-Salm and his wife masterminded a plan and bribed the jailors to allow Maximilian to escape execution. However, Maximilian would not go through with the plan because he felt that shaving his beard to avoid recognition would ruin his dignity if he were to be recaptured. The sentence was carried out in the \"Cerro de las Campanas\" at 6:40am on the morning of 19 June 1867, when Maximilian, along with Generals Miramón and Mejía, were executed by a firing squad. He spoke only in Spanish and gave each of his executioners a gold coin not to shoot him in the head so that his mother could see his face. His last words were, \"I forgive everyone, and I ask everyone to forgive me. May my blood, which is about to be shed, be for the good of the country. Viva Mexico, viva la independencia!\" Generals Miramón and Mejía standing to Maximilian's right, were killed by the same volley as the emperor, fired by the fifteen-man (twenty-one in other accounts) execution party. Maximilian and Miramón died almost immediately, the emperor calling out the single word \"hombre\", but Mejía's death was a more extended one.\n\nAfter his execution, Maximilian's body was embalmed and displayed in Mexico. Early the following year, the Austrian admiral Wilhelm von Tegetthoff was sent to Mexico aboard SMS \"Novara\" to take the former emperor's body back to Austria. After arriving in Trieste, the coffin was taken to Vienna and placed within the Imperial Crypt, on 18 January 1868, where it can be viewed today.\n\nThe Emperor Maximilian Memorial Chapel was constructed on the hill where his execution took place.\n\nMaximilian has been praised by some historians for his liberal reforms, genuine desire to help the people of Mexico, refusal to desert his loyal followers, and personal bravery during the siege of Querétaro. Other researchers consider him short-sighted in political and military affairs, and unwilling to restore democracy in Mexico even during the imminent collapse of the Second Mexican Empire. Today, anti-republican and anti-liberal far right groups who advocate the Second Mexican Empire, such as the Nationalist Front of Mexico, are reported to gather every year in Querétaro to commemorate the execution of Maximilian and his followers. Maximilian is portrayed in the 1934 Mexican film \"Juárez y Maximiliano\" by Enrique Herrera and the 1939 American film \"Juarez\" by Brian Aherne. He also appeared in one scene in the 1954 American film \"Vera Cruz\", played by George Macready. In the Mexican telenovela \"El Vuelo del Águila\", Maximilian was portrayed by Mexican actor Mario Iván Martínez.\nIn the wake of his death, carte-de-visite cards with photographs commemorating his execution circulated both among his followers and among those who wished to celebrate his death. One such card featured a photograph of the shirt he wore to his execution, riddled with bullet holes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13647659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13647659", "title": "MillerCoors", "text": "MillerCoors\n\nMillerCoors is a beer brewing company in the United States. In 2002 South African Breweries purchased Miller Brewing Company to create SABMiller. In 2005, Molson Brewery of Canada and Coors Brewing Company merged to form the Molson Coors Brewing Company. Then, in 2008, SABMiller and Molson Coors created MillerCoors as a joint venture for their operations in the U.S. The company is the second-largest brewer in the U.S., after Anheuser-Busch.\n\nThese component companies had very different backgrounds. Miller Brewing was started in 1855 by settler Frederick Miller who had been studying the making of beer for years; he first owned Plank Road Brewery before opening the first Miller Company in Milwaukee. The original Molson Brewery was started by John Molson in Montreal, Canada in 1786. Coors Brewing Company was started by Adolph Coors, who emigrated from Prussia, in Colorado in 1873 and went through several name changes over the years until it was acquired by Molson's in 2004, becoming Molson Coors Brewing Company.\n\nOn October 11, 2016, SABMiller sold its stake in MillerCoors for around US $12 billion after the company was acquired by Anheuser-Busch InBev, making Molson Coors the 100 per cent owner of MillerCoors. In effect, MillerCoors became the \"U.S. business unit of Molson Coors.\" In Canada, Molson Coors regained the right (from SABMiller) to make and market Miller Genuine Draft and Miller Lite.\n\nMolson Coors plans to keep the MillerCoors name and the Chicago headquarters and plans to operate it in much the same way as before October 11, 2016. For the consumer, and for employees, the change to 100 percent ownership (from the previous 42 percent) by Molson Coors will not be apparent, according to Jon Stern, MillerCoors' director of media relations. \"The good news is that none of this impacts Milwaukee or Wisconsin. It'll be business as usual. Miller Lite, Coors light, Miller High Life and Leinenkugel's -- and frankly all the rest of our brands will continue to be brewed by us.\"\n\nMillerCoors is the US businesses of Molson Coors and employs around 17,400 people. The U.S. company brews, markets and sells the MillerCoors portfolio of brands in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. MillerCoors operates eight major breweries in the U.S., as well as the Leinenkugel's craft brewery in Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin, and three microbreweries: the 10th Street Brewery in Milwaukee, Terrapin Beer Co. in Athens, GA and the Blue Moon Brewing Company at Coors Field in Denver.\n\nThe current management of the MillerCoors business unit consists of the following:\n\n\nMillerCoors was announced as a joint venture between SABMiller and Molson Coors in October 2007 and was approved by regulators on June 5, 2008. The venture was completed on June 30, 2008 and MillerCoors began operation on July 1, 2008.\n\nOn September 14, 2015, Miller Coors announced that it would shut down its Eden, NC brewery in September 2016 due to declining corporate sales. The company has newer plants in Virginia and Georgia that will serve the Eden plant's distribution area.\n\nIn May 2016, the \"Milwaukee Journal Sentinel\" reported that Pabst Brewing Company and Blue Ribbon Intermediate Holdings filed a lawsuit because Pabst wanted to continue making its beers in Eden.\n\nDuring the merger discussions between Anheuser-Busch InBev and SABMiller in 2015,\nthe U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) had agreed to proposed deal only on the basis that SABMiller \"spins off all its MillerCoors holdings in the U.S. — which include both Miller- and Coors-held brands — along with its Miller brands outside the U.S.\" The entire ownership situation was complicated: \"In the United States, Coors is majority owned [58%]by MillerCoors (a subsidiary of SABMiller) and minority owned by Molson Coors, though internationally it's entirely owned by Molson Coors, and Miller is owned by SABMiller.\" SABMiller agreed to divest itself of the Miller brands. by selling its stake in MillerCoors to Molson Coors.\n\nAfter the merger on October 10, 2016 was concluded, SABMiller sold to Molson Coors full ownership of the Miller brand portfolio outside of the U.S. and Puerto Rico for US$12 billion. Molson Coors also retained \"the rights to all of the brands currently in the MillerCoors portfolio for the U.S. and Puerto Rico, including Redd's and import brands such as Peroni, Grolsch and Pilsner Urquell.\" The agreement made Molson Coors the world's third largest brewer. The company is now also the largest brewer in the U.S.\n\nThe Molson Coors press release provides a summary of the net effect in terms of the Miller portfolio. \"As part of the transaction, Molson Coors gains full ownership of the Miller brand portfolio outside of the U.S. and Puerto Rico, and retains the rights to all of the brands currently in the MillerCoors portfolio for the U.S. and Puerto Rico, including Redd's and import brands such as Peroni, Grolsch and Pilsner Urquell.\"\n\nIn the U.S., the change is merely one of ownership (from 42 percent to 100 percent by Molson Coors), and that will not be relevant or apparent to consumers or to MillerCoors employees. However, the company was planning to increase investment in several of its brands, including new national marketing and advertising campaigns, to increase sales.\n\nBrands brewed, owned, or distributed by MillerCoors include the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "45379970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45379970", "title": "Minsk II", "text": "Minsk II\n\nAt a summit in Minsk on 11 February 2015, the leaders of Ukraine, Russia, France, and Germany agreed to a package of measures to alleviate the ongoing war in eastern Ukraine. The talks that led to the deal, overseen by the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), were organised in response to the collapse of the Minsk Protocol ceasefire in January–February 2015. The new package of measures is intended to revive the Protocol, which had been agreed to on 5 September 2014.\n\nSuccessive attempts to resolve the ongoing war in the Donbass region of Ukraine had seen no result by the start of February 2015. While the Minsk Protocol of 5 September 2014 did significantly reduce fighting in the conflict zone for many months, minor skirmishes continued. At the start of January 2015, the separatist forces of the Donetsk People's Republic (DPR) and Lugansk People's Republic (LPR) began a new offensive on Ukrainian-controlled areas, resulting in the complete collapse of the Minsk Protocol ceasefire. After heavy fighting, DPR forces captured the symbolically important Donetsk International Airport on 21 January, the last part of the city of Donetsk that had been under Ukrainian control. Following this victory, separatist forces pressed their offensive on the important railway and road junction of Debaltseve in late January. This renewed heavy fighting caused significant concern in the international community. French president François Hollande and German chancellor Angela Merkel put forth a new peace plan on 7 February. The Franco-German plan, drawn up after talks with Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko and Russian president Vladimir Putin, was seen as a revival of the Minsk Protocol. President Hollande said that the plan was the \"last chance\" for resolution of the conflict. The plan was put forth in response to American proposals to send armaments to the Ukrainian government, something that Chancellor Merkel said would only result in a worsening of the crisis.\n\nA summit to discuss the implementation of the Franco-German diplomatic plan was scheduled for 11 February at Independence Palace in Minsk, the capital of Belarus. It was attended by Russian president Vladimir Putin, Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko, German chancellor Angela Merkel, French president François Hollande, DPR leader Alexander Zakharchenko, and LPR leader Igor Plotnitsky. Negotiations went on overnight for sixteen hours, and were said to have been \"very difficult\" by the German foreign minister. Following the talks, it was announced on 12 February that the parties to the conflict had agreed to a new package of peacemaking measures. Some of the measures agreed to were an OSCE-observed unconditional ceasefire from 15 February, withdrawal of heavy weapons from the front line, release of prisoners of war, and constitutional reform in Ukraine.\n\nThe new package, commonly referred to as \"Minsk II\", was criticised for being \"highly complicated\" and \"extremely fragile\", and for being very similar to the failed Minsk Protocol. \"The New York Times\" reported that the plan \"included some tripwires\", such as not demarcating control over the city of Debaltseve, which was the site of the most fierce fighting at the time of the plan's drafting. Following the Minsk talks, Chancellor Merkel, President Hollande, and President Poroshenko attended a European Union (EU) summit in Brussels. At the summit, the Minsk participants briefed EU leaders about the talks. During the briefing, they said that President Putin had tried to delay the implementation of a ceasefire by ten days, so as to force Ukrainian troops in Debaltseve to surrender their positions. For his part, President Putin said that the Debaltseve defenders were encircled, and that the separatists expected them \"to lay down their arms and cease resistance\". \"Kommersant\" reporter Andrey Kolesnikov wrote that implementation of the ceasefire in Debaltseve hinged upon whether or not Ukrainian forces were truly encircled, \"Above all, does it exist or not? Vladimir Putin insisted that it [the encirclement] exists and that if a cease-fire agreement is reached, it will be odd if it isn't violated: Those in the kettle will certainly try to get out of there; those who have boiled that kettle will try to collect the foam\".\n\nUS State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said on 13 February that the Russian Armed Forces had actively deployed around Debaltseve to assist the separatists in forcing out Ukrainian troops prior to the start of the ceasefire, the 15 February. Russia denied this, and Russian government spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that Russia could not assist in the implementation of Minsk II because it was \"not a participant\" in the conflict.\n\nRight Sector leader Dmytro Yarosh said that he reserved the right to continue fighting, and that Minsk II was unconstitutional. He said that his Ukrainian Volunteer Corps would continue fighting \"until complete liberation of Ukrainian lands from Russian occupants\", and promised \"death to Russian terrorist-occupiers\". DPR leader Alexander Zakharchenko said that the ceasefire did not apply to Debaltseve, and that fighting would continue there.\n\nThe full text of the agreement is as follows:\n\n\nThe document was signed by:\n\nThough fighting generally subsided after the ceasefire came into effect at 0:00 EET on 15 February, skirmishes and shelling continued in several parts of the conflict zone. Shelling and fighting at Debaltseve continued, as DPR leader Alexander Zakharchenko said that the ceasefire did not apply to that area. In the south of Donetsk Oblast, fighting between DPR forces and members of the Azov Battalion continued in villages near Mariupol. By 16 February, Minsk II seemed on the verge of collapse. Separatists continued a heavy assault on Debaltseve. Both sides said that they would not withdraw heavy weaponry as specified by the agreement whilst fighting in Debaltseve was ongoing. Reuters described the ceasefire as \"stillborn\" in Debaltseve. Ukrainian forces were forced to retreat from Debaltseve on 18 February, leaving separatist forces in control of the city.\n\nIn the week after the fall of Debaltseve to pro-Russian forces, fighting in the conflict zone abated. DPR and LPR forces began to withdraw artillery from the front lines as specified by Minsk II on 24 February, and Ukraine did so on 26 February. Ukraine reported that it had suffered no casualties during 24–26 February, something that had not occurred since early January 2015.\n\nThe parliament of Ukraine approved a law on \"special status\" for Donbass on 17 March, as specified by Minsk II. The law was immediately criticised by Ukrainian politicians, separatist leaders, and the Russian government. Radical Party leader Oleh Lyashko said that the law was \"a vote for de-facto recognition of the Russian occupation in Donbass\". Vice-parliamentary speaker Andriy Parubiy said that law was \"not for Putin or the occupiers\", but to show Europe that Ukraine was willing to adhere to Minsk II. Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said that the law was a \"sharp departure from the Minsk agreements\". Representatives of the LPR and DPR said that the law was a \"one-sided\" modification of Minsk II, and that the agreement had been rendered void by this modification. DPR leader Alexander Zakharchenko said that any change to Minsk II that had not been mutually agreed upon was \"legally void\", and that \"nothing that had been agreed upon in Minsk has been carried out\". He added that the DPR \"must occupy all of the cities in which the referendum took place, and then politically cooperate [with Ukraine] as equal partners\". Despite this, representatives of the DPR and LPR continued to forward peace proposals to the Trilateral Contact Group on Ukraine. Ukrainian defence minister Stepan Poltorak said on 8 June 2015 that over 100 soldiers and at least 50 civilians had been killed since Minsk II came into effect. According to him, pro-Russian forces had violated the truce more than 4,000 times. Contrary to the agreement, DPR representative Denis Pushilin and LPR representative Vladislav Deinego said on 10 June 2015 that their republics \"would like to join the Russian Federation\". In addition, they said that they consider Crimea, which was annexed by Russia in March 2014, to be part of Russia. \n\nAmerican Defense Department official Michael Carpenter said on 2 March 2016 that at least 430 Ukrainian soldiers had died since the signing of Minsk II, that Russia maintained \"command-and-control links\" over the DPR and LPR, and that Russia was \"pouring heavy weapons\" into the Donbass. Deputy head of the OSCE mission in Ukraine Alexander Hug said on 25 March 2016 that the OSCE had observed \"armed people with Russian insignia\" fighting in Donbass from the beginning of the conflict, that they had talked to prisoners who said they were Russian soldiers, and that they had seen \"tire tracks, not the vehicles themselves, but the tracks of vehicles crossing the [Russo-Ukrainian] border\". Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on 27 March 2016 that Russia was \"not a party to the Minsk agreements\", and that the agreements were \"devoted to two conflicting sides\".\n\nWhile the 2015 Ukrainian local elections had been scheduled for 25 October, DPR leader Alexander Zakharchenko issued a decree on 2 July that ordered local DPR elections to be held on 18 October. He said that this action was \"in accordance with the Minsk agreements\". According to Zakharchenko, this move meant that the DPR had \"independently started to implement the Minsk agreements\". Zakharchenko said that the elections would \"take place 'on the basis of Ukraine's law on temporary self-rule status of individual districts of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions', in so far as they are not at variance with the constitution and laws of the DPR\".\n\nOn the same day, President Petro Poroshenko responded that if DPR elections went forward in this unilateral manner, it would be \"extremely irresponsible and will have devastating consequences for the process of deescalation of tension in certain areas of Donetsk and Luhansk regions\". In addition, the OSCE said that it would only will send observers to elections in the conflict zone if Ukraine invited it to do so. As specified in Minsk II, local elections in DPR and LPR-held territories must be observed by the OSCE to be deemed legitimate. LPR leader Igor Plotnitsky followed the DPR by scheduling elections in the territory that he controlled for 1 November 2015.\n\nAmidst a great reduction in violence, following an agreement to restart the implementation of Minsk II that was agreed to on 1 September, the Normandy four held a meeting on 2 October. At the meeting, it was agreed that elections in the conflict zone would be held in accordance with Minsk II. In order to do this, French President François Hollande said that the elections would need to be postponed until 2016, as three months were required to prepare for them. Russian President Vladimir Putin agreed to use his influence to prevent the DPR and LPR from holding early elections. Accordingly, the DPR and LPR announced on 6 October that their planned elections had been postponed until 21 February 2016. Local elections in the rest of Ukraine went ahead on 25 October 2015. Following the postponement, German foreign minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said that if OSCE observers verified that the planned elections to be held in the separatist areas were in accordance with Ukrainian law and Minsk II, the \"law on special status\" for these areas would come into immediate effect. \n\nOn 18 April 2016 the planned (organised by the DPR and LPR) local elections were postponed from 20 April to 24 July 2016. On 22 July 2016 these DPR and LPR elections were again postponed to 6 November 2016. On 2 October 2016 the DPR and LPR held \"primaries\" in which voters nominated candidates for the 6 November 2016 elections. Ukraine denounced these \"primaries\" as illegal. On 4 November 2016 both DPR and LPR postponed their local elections \"until further notice\"; head of the DPR Zakharchenko added that \"In 2017, we will hold elections under the Minsk agreements, or we will hold them independently.\"\n"}
{"id": "20454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20454", "title": "Montreux Convention Regarding the Regime of the Straits", "text": "Montreux Convention Regarding the Regime of the Straits\n\nThe Montreux Convention Regarding the Regime of the Straits is a 1936 agreement that gives Turkey control over the Bosporus Straits and the Dardanelles and regulates the transit of naval warships. The Convention gives Turkey full control over the Straits and guarantees the free passage of civilian vessels in peacetime. It restricts the passage of naval ships not belonging to Black Sea states. The terms of the convention have been the source of controversy over the years, most notably about the Soviet Union's military access to the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nSigned on 20 July 1936 at the Montreux Palace in Switzerland, it permitted Turkey to remilitarise the Straits. It went into effect on 9 November 1936 and was registered in \"League of Nations Treaty Series\" on 11 December 1936. It remains in force.\n\nThe proposed 21st-century Kanal Istanbul project may be a possible bypass to the Montreux Convention and force greater Turkish autonomy with respect to the passage of military ships from the Black Sea to the Sea of Marmara.\n\nThe convention was one of a series of agreements in the 19th and 20th centuries that sought to address the long-running \"Straits Question\" of who should control the strategically vital link between the Black Sea and Mediterranean Sea. In 1923 the Treaty of Lausanne had demilitarised the Dardanelles and opened the Straits to unrestricted civilian and military traffic, under the supervision of the International Straits Commission of the League of Nations.\n\nBy the late 1930s, the strategic situation in the Mediterranean had altered with the rise of Fascist Italy, which controlled the Greek-inhabited Dodecanese islands off the west coast of Turkey and had constructed fortifications on Rhodes, Leros and Kos. The Turks feared that Italy would seek to exploit access to the Straits to expand its power into Anatolia and the Black Sea region. There were also fears of Bulgarian rearmament. Although Turkey was not permitted to refortify the Straits, it nonetheless did so secretly.\n\nIn April 1935, the Turkish government dispatched a lengthy diplomatic note to the signatories of the Treaty of Lausanne proposing a conference on the agreement of a new regime for the Straits and requested that the League of Nations authorise the reconstruction of the Dardanelles forts. In the note, Turkish foreign minister Tevfik Rüştü Aras explained that the international situation had changed greatly since 1923. At that time, Europe had been moving towards disarmament and an international guarantee to defend the Straits. The Abyssinia Crisis of 1934–35, the denunciation by Germany of the Treaty of Versailles and international moves towards rearmament meant that \"the only guarantee intended to guard against the total insecurity of the Straits has just disappeared in its turn.\" Indeed, Aras said, \"the Powers most closely concerned are proclaiming the existence of a threat of general conflagration.\" The key weaknesses of the present regime were that the machinery for collective guarantees were too slow and ineffective, there was no contingency for a general threat of war and no provision for Turkey to defend itself. Turkey was therefore prepared\n\nThe response to the note was generally favourable, and Australia, Bulgaria, France, Germany, Greece, Japan, Romania, the Soviet Union, Turkey, the United Kingdom and Yugoslavia agreed to attend negotiations at Montreux in Switzerland, which began on 22 June 1936. Two major powers were not represented: Italy, whose aggressively expansionist policies had prompted the conference in the first place, refused to attend and the United States declined even to send an observer.\n\nTurkey, the UK and the Soviet Union each put forward their own set of proposals, aimed chiefly at protecting their own interests. The British favoured the continuation of a relatively restrictive approach, while the Turks sought a more liberal regime that reasserted their own control over the Straits and the Soviets proposed a regime that would guarantee absolute freedom of passage. The British, supported by France, sought to exclude the Soviet fleet from the Mediterranean Sea, where it might have threatened the vital shipping lanes to India, Egypt and the Far East. In the end, the British conceded some of their requests while the Soviets succeeded in ensuring that the Black Sea countries – including the USSR – were given some exemptions from the military restrictions imposed on non-Black Sea nations. The agreement was ratified by all of the conference attendees with the exception of Germany, which had not been a signatory to the Treaty of Lausanne, and with reservations by Japan, and came into force on 9 November 1936.\n\nBritain's willingness to make concessions has been attributed to a desire to avoid Turkey being driven to ally itself with, or fall under the influence of, Adolf Hitler or Benito Mussolini. It was thus the first in a series of steps by Britain and France to ensure that Turkey would either remain neutral or tilt towards the Western Allies in the event of any future conflict with the Axis.\n\nThe Convention consists of 29 Articles, four annexes and one protocol. Articles 2–7 consider the passage of merchant ships. Articles 8–22 consider the passage of war vessels. The key principle of freedom of passage and navigation is stated in articles 1 and 2. Article 1 provides, \"The High Contracting Parties recognise and affirm the principle of freedom of passage and navigation by sea in the Straits\". Article 2 states, \"In time of peace, merchant vessels shall enjoy complete freedom of passage and navigation in the Straits, by day and by night, under any flag with any kind of cargo.\"\n\nThe International Straits Commission was abolished, authorising the full resumption of Turkish military control over the Straits and the refortification of the Dardanelles. Turkey was authorised to close the Straits to all foreign warships in wartime or when it was threatened by aggression. Also, it was authorised to refuse transit from merchant ships belonging to countries at war with Turkey.\n\nA number of highly-specific restrictions were imposed on what type of warships are allowed passage. No more than nine foreign warships, with a total aggregate tonnage of 15,000 tons, may pass at any one time, therefore a single non-Black Sea state warship passing the straits might not exceed 15,000 tons. An aggregate tonnage of all non-Black Sea warships in the Black Sea must be no more than 30,000 tons (or 45,000 tons under special conditions), and they are permitted to stay in the Black Sea for no longer than twenty-one days. Only Black Sea states may transit capital ships of any tonnage, escorted by no more than two destroyers.\n\nUnder Article 12, Black Sea states are also allowed to send submarines through the Straits, with prior notice, as long as the vessels have been constructed, purchased or sent for repair outside the Black Sea. The less restrictive rules applicable to Black Sea states were agreed as, effectively, a concession to the Soviet Union, the only Black Sea state other than Turkey with any significant number of capital ships or submarines. The passage of civil aircraft between the Mediterranean and Black Seas is permitted but only along routes authorised by the Turkish government.\n\nThe terms of the Convention were largely a reflection of the international situation in the mid-1930s. They largely served Turkish and Soviet interests, enabling Turkey to regain military control of the Straits and assuring Soviet dominance of the Black Sea. Although the Convention restricted the Soviets' ability to send naval forces into the Mediterranean Sea, thereby satisfying British concerns about Soviet intrusion into what was considered a British sphere of influence, it also ensured that outside powers could not exploit the Straits to threaten the Soviet Union. That was to have significant repercussions during World War II when the Montreux regime prevented the Axis powers from sending naval forces through the Straits to attack the Soviet Union. The Axis powers were thus severely limited in naval capability in their Black Sea campaigns, relying principally on small vessels that had been transported overland by rail and canal networks.\n\nAuxiliary vessels and armed merchant ships occupied a grey area, however, and the transit of such vessels through the straits led to friction between the Allies and Turkey. Repeated protests from Moscow and London led to the Turkish government banning the movements of \"suspicious\" Axis ships with effect from June 1944 after a number of German auxiliary ships had been permitted to transit the Straits.\n\nAlthough the Montreux Convention is cited by the Turkish government as prohibiting aircraft carriers in the straits, the treaty actually contains no explicit prohibition on aircraft carriers. However, aircraft carriers are not listed among naval ship classes, which have a right of passage under Articles 10, 11 and 12, and according to Article 10, vessels of war \"other than those which fall within the categories specified in the preceding paragraph shall only enjoy a right of transit under the special conditions provided by Articles 11 and 12\". In any case, modern aircraft carriers are heavier than the 15,000 ton limit, making it impossible for non-Black Sea powers to transit modern aircraft carriers through the Straits.\n\nUnder Article 11, Black Sea states are permitted to transit capital ships of any tonnage through the straits, but Annex II specifically excludes aircraft carriers from the definition of capital ship. In 1936, it was common for battleships to carry observation aircraft. Therefore, aircraft carriers were defined as ships that were \"designed or adapted primarily for the purpose of carrying and operating aircraft at sea.\" The inclusion of aircraft on any other ship does not classify it as an aircraft carrier.\n\nThe Soviet Union designated its Kiev-class and Kuznetsov-class aircraft carriers as \"aircraft carrying cruisers.\" These ships were armed with P-500 and P-700 cruise missiles, which were also found on the Slava-class cruiser and the Kirov-class battlecruiser. The result was that that the Soviet Navy could send its aircraft carrying cruisers through the Straits in compliance with the Convention, but at the same time the Convention denied access to NATO aircraft carriers, which exceeded the 15,000 ton limit.\n\nTurkey chose to accept the designation of the Soviet aircraft carrying cruisers as aircraft cruisers, as any revision of the Convention could leave Turkey with less control over the Turkish Straits, and the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea had already established more liberal passage through other straits. By allowing the Soviet aircraft carrying cruisers to transit the Straits, Turkey could leave the more restrictive Montreux Convention in place.\n\nThe Convention remains in force, but not without dispute. It was repeatedly challenged by the Soviet Union during World War II and the Cold War. As early as 1939, Joseph Stalin sought to reopen the Straits Question and proposed joint Turkish and Soviet control of the Straits, complaining that \"a small state [i.e. Turkey] supported by Great Britain held a great state by the throat and gave it no outlet\". After the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact was signed by the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany, the Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav Molotov informed his German counterparts that the Soviet Union wished to take military control of the Straits and establish its own military base there. The Soviets returned to the issue in 1945 and 1946, demanding a revision of the Montreux Convention at a conference excluding most of the Montreux signatories, a permanent Soviet military presence and joint control of the Straits. That was firmly rejected by Turkey, despite an ongoing Soviet \"strategy of tension\". For several years after World War II, the Soviets exploited the restriction on the number of foreign warships by ensuring that one of theirs was always in the Straits, thus effectively blocking any nation other than Turkey from sending warships through the Straits. Soviet pressure expanded into full demands to revise the Montreux Convention, which led to the Turkish Straits crisis of 1946, which led to Turkey abandoning its policy of neutrality. In 1947, it became the recipient of US military and economic assistance under the Truman Doctrine of containment and joined NATO, along with Greece, in 1952.\n\nThe passage of US warships through the Straits also raised controversy, as the convention forbids the transit of non-Black Sea nations' warships with guns of a calibre larger than eight inches (203 mm). In the 1960s, the US sent warships carrying 420 mm calibre ASROC missiles through the Straits, prompting Soviet protests. The Turkish government rejected the Soviet complaints, pointing out that guided missiles were not guns and that since such weapons had not existed at the time of the Convention, they were not restricted.\n\nThe United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), which entered into force in November 1994, has prompted calls for the Montreux Convention to be revised and adapted to make it compatible with UNCLOS's regime governing straits used for international navigation. However, Turkey's longstanding refusal to sign UNCLOS has meant that Montreux remains in force without further amendments.\n\nThe safety of vessels passing through the Bosporus has become a major concern in recent years as the volume of traffic has increased greatly since the Convention was signed: from 4,500 in 1934 to 49,304 by 1998. As well as obvious environmental concerns, the Straits bisect the city of Istanbul, with over 14 million people living on its shores and so maritime incidents in the Straits pose a considerable risk to public safety. The Convention does not, however, make any provision for the regulation of shipping for the purposes of safety and environmental protection. In January 1994, the Turkish government adopted new \"Maritime Traffic Regulations for the Turkish Straits and the Marmara Region\". That introduced a new regulatory regime \"to ensure the safety of navigation, life and property and to protect the environment in the region\" but without violating the Montreux principle of free passage. The new regulations provoked some controversy when Russia, Greece, Cyprus, Romania, Ukraine and Bulgaria raised objections. However, they were approved by the International Maritime Organization on the grounds that they were not intended to prejudice \"the rights of any ship using the Straits under international law\". The regulations were revised in November 1998 to address Russian concerns.\n\n"}
{"id": "20829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20829", "title": "Moxie", "text": "Moxie\n\nMoxie is a brand of carbonated beverage which was among the first mass-produced soft drinks in the United States. It continues to be regionally popular today. It is produced by the Moxie Beverage Company of Bedford, New Hampshire. Moxie was purchased by the Coca-Cola company in 2018.The name has become the word \"moxie\" in American English, meaning courage, daring, or determination.\n\nMoxie's flavor is unique, as it is not as sweet as most modern soft drinks and is described by some as bitter. Moxie is flavored with gentian root extract, an extremely bitter substance known to possess medicinal properties. It originated around 1876 as a patent medicine called \"Moxie Nerve Food\".\n\nMoxie is closely associated with the state of Maine and was designated the official soft drink of Maine on May 10, 2005. Its creator, Dr. Augustin Thompson, was born in Union, Maine, but Moxie was created and first produced in Lowell, Massachusetts.\n\nOn August 28, 2018 The Coca-Cola Company agreed to buy Moxie.\n\nMoxie originated as a patent medicine called \"Moxie Nerve Food\", which was created around 1876 by Dr. Augustin Thompson in Lowell, Massachusetts. Thompson claimed that it contained an extract from a rare, unnamed South American plant, which is now known to be gentian root. Moxie, he claimed, was especially effective against \"paralysis, softening of the brain, nervousness, and insomnia\".\n\nThompson claimed that he named the beverage after a Lieutenant Moxie, a purported friend of his, who he claimed had discovered the plant and used it as a panacea, and the company he created continued to promulgate legendary stories about the word's origin. It likely derives from an Abenaki word that means \"dark water\" and that is found in lake and river names in Maine, where Thompson was born and raised.\n\nAfter a few years, Thompson added soda water to the formula and changed the product's name to \"Beverage Moxie Nerve Food\". By 1884 he was selling Moxie both in bottles and in bulk as a soda fountain syrup. In 1885, he received a trade mark for the term. He marketed it as \"a delicious blend of bitter and sweet, a drink to satisfy everyone's taste\". Thompson died in 1903.\n\nA lawsuit was filed in 1907 by the Moxie Nerve Food Company of New England against the Modox Company and others, alleging that they had copied the ingredients of Moxie and were using the name \"Modox\", which closely resembled \"Moxie\", and were infringing upon patents and trademarks. The suit was dismissed by the judge, who said the court could not protect the legitimate part of the plaintiff's business in this case. In a later case in New York, the Moxie Nerve Food Company won a lawsuit against Modox, which subsequently went out of business.\n\nPresident Calvin Coolidge was known to favor the drink, and Boston Red Sox slugger Ted Williams endorsed it on radio and in print. The company also marketed a beverage called \"Ted's Root Beer\" in the early sixties. Author E. B. White once claimed that \"Moxie contains gentian root, which is the path to the good life.\" Currently, one of the ingredients of Moxie is \"Gentian Root Extractives\", which may contribute to the drink's unique flavor.\n\nThe brand suffered a significant decline in sales during the 1930s.\n\nThe Catawissa Bottling Company in Catawissa, Pennsylvania, is one of six bottlers in the United States that produce Moxie. Catawissa has produced it since 1945. Polar Beverages also bottles Moxie in Worcester, Massachusetts, as does Orca Beverage in Mukilteo, Washington.\n\nSugar-free Diet Moxie was introduced in 1962, about the same time that \"Mad\" magazine began placing the Moxie logo in the background of its articles to increase public awareness of it. As a result of \"Mad\" ’s efforts, sales of the soft drink increased 10%; this led to the \"Mad About Moxie\" campaign.\n\nThe Moxie brand was purchased in 1966 by the Monarch Beverage Company of Atlanta. In 2007 Monarch sold it to its current owner, Cornucopia Beverages of Bedford, New Hampshire, which is owned by the Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Northern New England, a subsidiary of the Kirin Brewery Company, which is a subsidiary of Kirin Company, Limited, which is a subsidiary of Kirin Holdings Company, Limited, based in Tokyo, Japan (a member of the Mitsubishi \"keiretsu\").\n\nIn its decision to step up efforts to distribute the product, Cornucopia cited increasing requests for Moxie from fans across the country. In 2007 it launched pilot sales in Florida and in 2010 granted distribution in Florida to Florida Micro Beverage Distributors.\n\nIn 2011, Cornucopia began doing business as the Moxie Beverage Company to market Moxie and Moxie-branded products. A website, DrinkMoxie.com, was created to promote Moxie. Drink recipes using Moxie were created.\n\nDemand for Moxie has waned in recent years, although the brand persists in New England and Pennsylvania.\n\nOn August 28, 2018 Coca-Cola Co. announced it was buying Moxie from Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Northern New England Inc. for an unspecified amount.\n\nThrough extensive advertising, the term \"moxie\" has become a widely known term in American English with the meaning \"courage, daring, or spirit\", as in \"This guy's got moxie!\"\n\nIn its advertising, Moxie used \"Make Mine Moxie!\" advertising jingles, the slogan \"Just Make It Moxie for Mine\", and a \"Moxie Man\" logo. The Moxie Man had appeared on Moxie labels since the beverage was first sold. But in 2010 the Moxie Man logo was removed from labels because it was thought to be too old-fashioned. In 2011 the company's head of marketing, Ryan Savage, made the executive decision to bring the logo back in response to complaints from long-standing customers.\n\nA unique advertising tool was the Moxie Horsemobile, a modified automobile whose driver sat on a large model of a horse. The first Horsemobiles were deployed around 1918. A 1935 Rolls-Royce Moxie Horsemobile was sold for $55,000 at the May 20, 2011, Mecum Auction in Indianapolis, Indiana. Moxie at one time maintained about two dozen of them, and they appeared in parades and other public functions.\n\nThere is also a \"Moxie Energy Drink\" and a variety of \"Olde New England Seltzers.\" The energy drink is citrus-based; it lacks Moxie's gentian root tang, caramel color, and (as of 2008) its distinctive branding; similarly, the waters are simply carbonated waters with fruit flavors marketed under the Moxie brand.\n\nMoxie ice cream is seasonally available in Maine in limited quantities and is mild in flavor as compared to the soft drink.\n\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "14534980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14534980", "title": "Net operating loss", "text": "Net operating loss\n\nUnder U.S. Federal income tax law, a net operating loss (NOL) occurs when certain tax-deductible expenses exceed taxable revenues for a taxable year. If a taxpayer is taxed during profitable periods without receiving any tax relief (e.g. a refund) during periods of NOLs, an unbalanced tax burden results. Consequently, in some situations, Congress allows taxpayers to use the losses in one year to offset the profits of other years. \n\nThe NOL amount is the amount of the loss from the current year that can be carried back to prior tax years or carried forward to future years. \n\nThe NOL amount is the business loss incurred by a taxpayer. The following items are excluded when calculating the NOL amount:\n\nIn addition, the NOL amount excludes other adjustments such as:\n\nFor corporations, an NOL is the excess of the deductions allowed over gross income with the following adjustments.\n\nGenerally the NOL must be carried back to the two tax years before the NOL year. For example, the tax loss from 2015 must be carried back to 2013 or 2014. Any remaining amount can be carried forward for up to 20 years. The taxpayer can elect to waive the carry back and therefore carry all of the loss to future years. Once the 20-year carry forward period expires, the taxpayer cannot deduct any part of the remaining NOL.\n\nThe carry back period for certain NOLs is greater than 2 years:\n\nIf the corporation has a corporate equity reduction transaction, a different carry forward period may apply.\nSection 1211 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 increased the carry back period for small businesses. For net operating losses incurred in 2008, the carry back period was increased to 5 years. \n\nUnder US GAAP, the amount of net operating losses available for future years is reported in the notes to the financial statements. For example, Kinross Gold reported $US 893 million of NOL carry forwards were available as at December 31, 2014 related to its subsidiaries in Barbados. \n"}
{"id": "37549412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37549412", "title": "Nikolai Korkunov", "text": "Nikolai Korkunov\n\nNikolai Mikhailovich Korkunov (Николай Михайлович Коркунов; April 1853 – 1904) was a leading authority on constitutional law and legal sociology in the Russian Empire.\n\nHis father was Mikhail Korkunov, a noted Russian historian. His sister Marie de Manacéïne was known for her pioneering studies of sleep and dreams. After Aleksandr Gradovsky's death in 1889 Korkunov held the chair in constitutional and international law at the University of Saint Petersburg.\n\nKorkunov was also active in the Commission for the Laws of Finland. He argued that Grand Duchy of Finland's claim to sovereignty was groundless. He defined autocracy as the \"sovereignty of the ruler, the unlimited character of his rule, but at the same time the need to limit this rule by legal principles, basic laws of his own making\".\n\nAn English translation of Korkunov's \"General Theory of Law\" appeared in Boston in 1909. It was reprinted by Beard Books in 2000. Some of his basic ideas were later elaborated by Leon Petrazycki.\n"}
{"id": "39771306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39771306", "title": "Nothing to hide argument", "text": "Nothing to hide argument\n\nThe nothing to hide argument states that government surveillance programs do not threaten privacy unless they uncover illegal activities, and that if they do uncover illegal activities, the person committing these activities does not have the right to keep them private. Hence, a person who favors this argument may state \"I've got nothing to hide\" and therefore does not express opposition to government surveillance. An individual using this argument may say that a person should not worry about government or surveillance if he/she has \"nothing to hide.\"\n\nThe motto \"If you've got nothing to hide, you've got nothing to fear\" has been used in the closed-circuit television program practiced in the United Kingdom.\n\nThis argument is commonly used in discussions regarding privacy. Geoffrey Stone, a legal scholar, said that the use of the argument is \"all-too-common\". Bruce Schneier, a data security expert and cryptographer, described it as the \"most common retort against privacy advocates.\" Colin J. Bennett, author of \"The Privacy Advocates\", said that an advocate of privacy often \"has to constantly refute\" the argument. Bennett explained that most people \"go through their daily lives believing that surveillance processes are not directed at them, but at the miscreants and wrongdoers\" and that \"the dominant orientation is that mechanisms of surveillance are directed at others\" despite \"evidence that the monitoring of individual behavior has become routine and everyday\".\n\nAn ethnographic study by Ana Viseu, Andrew Clement, and Jane Aspinal of the integration of online services into everyday life was published as \"Situating Privacy Online: Complex Perceptions and Everyday Practices\" in the \"Information, Communication & Society\" journal in 2004. It found that, in the words of Kirsty Best, author of \"Living in the control society: Surveillance, users and digital screen technologies\", \"fully employed, middle to middle-upper income earners articulated similar beliefs about not being targeted for surveillance\" compared to other respondents who did not show concern, and that \"In these cases, respondents expressed the view that they were not doing anything wrong, or that they had nothing to hide.\" Of the participant sample in Viseu's study, one reported using privacy-enhancing technology, and Viseu et al. said \"One of the clearest features of our subjects’ privacy perceptions and practices was their passivity towards the issue.\" Viseu et al. said the passivity originated from the \"nothing to hide\" argument.\n\nDuring a qualitative study conducted for the government of the United Kingdom around 2003, Dr. Perri 6 presented four outlooks on privacy risks with a mapping of eight frames to show privacy attitude distributions. According to the study, men who were self-employed initially used the \"nothing to hide\" argument before shifting to an argument in which they perceived surveillance to be a nuisance instead of a threat.\n\nViseu, et al. said that the argument \"has been well documented in the privacy literature as a stumbling block to the development of pragmatic privacy protection strategies, and it, too, is related to the ambiguous and symbolic nature of the term ‘privacy’ itself.\" They explained that privacy is an abstract concept and people only become concerned with it once their privacy is gone, and they compare a loss to privacy with people knowing that ozone depletion and global warming are negative developments but that \"the immediate gains of driving the car to work or putting on hairspray outweigh the often invisible losses of polluting the environment.\"\n\nEdward Snowden: \"Arguing that you don't care about the right to privacy because you have nothing to hide is no different than saying you don't care about free speech because you have nothing to say.\" \n\n\"When you say, ‘I have nothing to hide,’ you’re saying, ‘I don’t care about this right.’ You’re saying, ‘I don’t have this right, because I’ve got to the point where I have to justify it.’ The way rights work is, the government has to justify its intrusion into your rights.\"\n\nDaniel J. Solove stated in an article for \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\" that he opposes the argument; he stated that a government can leak information about a person and cause damage to that person, or use information about a person to deny access to services even if a person did not actually engage in wrongdoing, and that a government can cause damage to one's personal life through making errors. Solove wrote \"When engaged directly, the nothing-to-hide argument can ensnare, for it forces the debate to focus on its narrow understanding of privacy. But when confronted with the plurality of privacy problems implicated by government data collection and use beyond surveillance and disclosure, the nothing-to-hide argument, in the end, has nothing to say.\"\n\nDanah Boyd, a social media researcher, opposes the argument. She said that even though \"[p]eople often feel immune from state surveillance because they’ve done nothing wrong\" an entity or group can distort a person's image and harm one's reputation, or guilt by association can be used to defame a person.\n\nAdam D. Moore, author of \"Privacy Rights: Moral and Legal Foundations\", argued \"it is the view that rights are resistant to cost/benefit or consequentialist sort of arguments. Here we are rejecting the view that privacy interests are the sorts of things that can be traded for security.\" He also stated that surveillance can disproportionately affect certain groups in society based on appearance, ethnicity, and religion. Moore maintains that there are at least three other problems with the \"nothing to hide\" argument. First, if individuals have privacy rights, then invoking \"nothing to hide\" is irrelevant. Privacy, understood as a right to control access to and uses of spaces, locations, and personal information, means that it is the right holder who determines access. To drive this point home Moore offers the following case. \"Imagine upon exiting your house one day you find a person searching through your trash painstakingly putting the shredded notes and documents back together. In response to your stunned silence he proclaims 'you don’t have anything to worry about – there is no reason to hide, is there?'\" Second, individuals may wish to hide embarrassing behavior or conduct not accepted by the dominant culture. \"Consider someone’s sexual or medical history. Imagine someone visiting a library to learn about alternative lifestyles not accepted by the majority.\" Finally, Moore argues that \"nothing to hide,\" if taken seriously, could be used against government agents, politicians, and CEO's. This is to turn the “nothing to hide” argument on its head. Moore argues that the NSA agent, politician, police chief, and CEO have nothing to hide so they should embrace total transparency like the rest of us. \"But they don’t and when given the technological tools to watch, the politician, police chief, or CEO are almost always convinced that watching others is a good thing.\" \n\nBruce Schneier, a computer security expert and cryptographer, expressed opposition, citing Cardinal Richelieu's statement \"If one would give me six lines written by the hand of the most honest man, I would find something in them to have him hanged\", referring to how a state government can find aspects in a person's life in order to prosecute or blackmail that individual. Schneier also argued \"Too many wrongly characterize the debate as 'security versus privacy.' The real choice is liberty versus control.\"\n\nEmilio Mordini, philosopher and psychoanalyst, argued that the \"nothing to hide\" argument is inherently paradoxical. People do not need to have \"something to hide\" in order to hide \"something\". What is relevant is not what is hidden, rather the experience that there is an intimate area, which could be hidden, whose access could be restricted. Psychologically speaking, we become individuals through the discovery that we could hide something to others.\n\nJulian Assange states: \"There is no killer answer yet. Jacob Appelbaum (@ioerror) has a clever response, asking people who say this to then hand him their phone unlocked and pull down their pants. My version of that is to say, 'well, if you're so boring then we shouldn't be talking to you, and neither should anyone else', but philosophically, the real answer is this: Mass surveillance is a mass structural change. When society goes bad, it's going to take you with it, even if you are the blandest person on earth.\"\n\nHarvey A. Silverglate estimated that the common person, on average, unknowingly commits three felonies a day in the US.\n\nEric Schmidt, the CEO of Google at the time, said \"If you have something that you don't want anyone to know, maybe you shouldn't be doing it in the first place, but if you really need that kind of privacy, the reality is that search engines including Google do retain this information for some time, and it's important, for example that we are all subject in the United States to the Patriot Act. It is possible that that information could be made available to the authorities.\"\n\nWhen discussing the MAINWAY program, former U.S. Senate majority leader Trent Lott stated \"What are people worried about? What is the problem? Are you doing something you're not supposed to?\" \n\nJohann Hari, a British writer, argued that the \"nothing to hide\" argument is irrelevant to the placement of CCTV cameras in public places in the United Kingdom because the cameras are public areas where one is observed by many people he or she would be unfamiliar with and not in \"places where you hide\".\n\nIn November 2015, British Conservative Party MP Richard Graham was accused of quoting Joseph Goebbels in defending a new surveillance bill with the words \"if you've nothing to hide you have nothing to fear\". Former Conservative Foreign Secretary William Hague also used the same phrase in 2013.\n\nIn his 1919 muckraking exposé \"The Brass Check\", Upton Sinclair wrote (referring to the 1914 Lexington Avenue explosion): \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23603021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23603021", "title": "Official Information Act 2008", "text": "Official Information Act 2008\n\nThe Official Information Act 2008 is a Cook Islands law passed to \"make official information more freely available, [and] to establish procedures for the achievement of those purposes.\" The Act also repealed the Official Secrets Act 1951, which the Cook Islands had inherited from New Zealand. \n\nThe law was introduced into the Cook Islands Parliament on 12 February 2008, and passed two days later. It came into force on 11 February 2009.\n\nThe law is heavily based on the New Zealand Official Information Act 1982. As in New Zealand, the definition of \"official information\" is extremely broad, covering any information held by a Ministry, a Minister in their official capacity, or a scheduled organisation. Information held by the courts, tribunals, commissions of inquiry, or investigative material held by the Ombudsman's office is excluded. Unlike New Zealand, the law applies to \"any companies in which 50% or more of the shares are owned by the Crown,\" allowing the operations of crown-owned assets to be effectively monitored.\n\nThe scheme for deciding whether information is released or withheld also follows that of New Zealand. Decisions are governed by an overarching \"principle of availability\": \"that... information shall be made available unless there is good reason for withholding it\". \"Good reason\" is narrowly defined in the Act. Conclusive reasons for withholding information include national security or international relations, that it was supplied by another government in confidence, maintenance of the law, personal safety, or severe economic damage. Other reasons, which must be weighed against the public interest in release, include:\n\n\nRequests can also be refused if release of the information would contravene the law or constitute contempt of court, or for administrative reasons (because the information will soon be made publicly available, that substantial research is required, or simply because it is vexatious). Organisations can charge for large requests.\n\nRequests may be made by Cook Islands citizens or permanent residents, or people or corporations who have been resident or doing business in the Cook Islands for the past three years. Government organisations have 20 working days to respond, and if a request is refused in whole or in part, they must give reasons for the refusal. Decisions may be appealed to the Ombudsman.\n\nThe law also created a right to access and correct personal information held on a person by the government.\n\n"}
{"id": "44041240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44041240", "title": "Pacification theory", "text": "Pacification theory\n\nPacification theory is a counter-hegemonic approach to the study of police and security which views the contemporary security-industrial complex as both an organizing and systematic war strategy targeting domestic and foreign enemies while simultaneously acting as a process that actively fabricates a social order conducive to capitalist accumulation. According to its academic proponents, such an approach to police and security reveals inherent class war dimensions that have been reinforced by police intellectuals since at least the eighteenth century.\n\nAt base, pacification reflects the need to fabricate productive territories and subjects conducive to exploitation. As Neocleous, Rigakos and Wall explain: \"The extraction of surplus, as Adam Smith admits, can ‘be squeezed out of [the labourer] by violence only, and not by any interest of his own’ if he can subsist otherwise such as through access to communal land. This, in short, is the foundational bourgeois logic for the compulsion to pacify.\"\n\nPacification theory may vary in its use depending on the analyst, but most scholars associated with Anti-security would likely agree that its central tenets encompass:\nAssociated with this last point and serving an essential component of pacification is its immediate connection to making subjects economically \"productive\" both historically within the plans of military and colonial overseers and by contemporary police actions, both domestic and international. Neocleous has characterized this process as making war through peace:\n\nA final element of pacification invoked by scholars in this field of study is its connection to the apparent primacy of security thinking and planning in a capitalist economy. This pronouncement is often linked to Karl Marx's assertion that \"security is the supreme concept of bourgeois society\" in the Jewish Question. A connection believed to be so embedded that Rigakos has argued that \"security \"is\" hegemony\".\n\nThe development of pacification theory is a re-appropriation of the historical usage of the term. It is offered as an alternative to security as part of a broader analytic Anti-security project. The development of pacification theory to re-cast security is believed to help radical scholars grasp the inherent objectives and operation of security politics since the Enlightenment, and is intended to give activists a ground to stand against the securitization of political discourse that increasingly surrounds the policing of dissent in the post-9/11 period.\n\nDuring the social uprisings in the 1960s in North America and Europe against the Vietnam War, pacification came to connote bombing people into submission and waging an ideological war against the opposition. However, after the Vietnam War, pacification was dropped from the official discourse as well as from the discourse of opposition. Although approach towards the term and practices of pacification both in the concept’s sixteenth-century and twentieth-century colonial meanings were somehow related to the concepts of war, security and police power, the real connection between pacification and these concepts has never been revealed in the literature on international relations, conflict studies, criminology or political science. Neocleous has argued that the connection between pacification and the ideological discourse on security is related to the terms use in broader Western social and political thought in general, and liberal theory in particular. In short, that liberalism’s key concept is less liberty and more security and that liberal doctrine is inherently less committed to peace and far more to legitimizing violence.\n\nIn Anti-security: A Declaration, Neocleous and Rigakos provocatively summed this argument in the following way: \"In the works of the founders of the liberal tradition - that is, the founders of bourgeois ideology - liberty is security and security is liberty. For the ruling class, security always has and always will triumph over liberty because ‘liberty’ has never been intended as a counter-weight to security. Liberty has always been security’s lawyer.\"\n\nFrom the late seventeenth and early eighteenth century onwards, the growth of towns in Europe generated a concern over “masterlesse men,” as Thomas Hobbes puts it, and their forms of behaviour exposed in urban life such as gambling, drinking, adultery, blasphemy and wandering. Pacification, then, functions as a thread that connects sixteenth-century European colonialism and the fabrication of liberal social order in eighteenth and nineteenth centuries to the US project in Vietnam and contemporary military exercises of Empire both throughout the globe and domestically.\n\nIn Security/Capital, Rigakos offers a General Theory of Pacification. He argues that pacification is composed of three overlapping strata: (1) Dispossession; (2) Exploitation and (3) Commodification. Commodification is itself composed of three processes: (a) valorization; (b) prudentialization; and (c) fetishization. According to Rigakos, while different in their strategic targets of intervention, each of these three strata of pacification in their aggregate nonetheless both produce and rely on:\n\nThe aggregate effect of this theory is the conclusion that the global economic system is now conditioned by pacification as it never has been before. Rigakos suggests that \"the security–\nindustrial complex is, materially and ideologically, the blast furnace of global capitalism, fuelling both the conditions for the system’s perpetuation while feeding relentlessly on the surpluses it has exacted.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "36647856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36647856", "title": "Patent war", "text": "Patent war\n\nA patent war is a \"battle\" between corporations or individuals to secure patents for litigation, whether offensively or defensively. There are ongoing patent wars between the world's largest technology and software corporations. Contemporary patent wars are a global phenomenon, fought by multinational corporations based in the United States, China, Europe, Japan, Korea and Taiwan. Patent wars have occurred in a wide range of technologies, both in the past and in the present.\n\nPatent wars are not a new phenomenon. In the Wright brothers patent war, the Wright brothers, attributed with the invention of the airplane, sought to prevent competitors from manufacturing airplanes through litigation, stifling the development of the American airline industry. Alexander Graham Bell, credited with inventing the telephone, was dragged into a patent war against his rivals, which involved, in just 11 years, 600 lawsuits. One notable case was Bell's lawsuit against Western Union. Western Union was backed by Elisha Gray, also credited with inventing the telephone.\n\nThe occurrence of patent wars has been shaped by the digital age, as the rapid pace of innovation makes much of the patent system obsolete. In the 1980s, technology corporations in the United States and Japan engaged in a patent war, creating a scenario where companies were forced to \"fight patent with patent.\" This bilateral patent war, partly exaggerated by the media, subsided by the mid 1990s.\n\nExacerbating the frequency of patent wars was the advent of patent trolling. The term \"patent troll\" was coined in the 1990s by the employees of Intel and popularized by Intel's Peter Detkin. According to Detkin, Intel was \"sued for libel for the use of the term 'patent extortionists' so I came up with 'patent trolls...a patent troll is somebody who tries to make a lot of money off a patent that they are not practicing and have no intention of practicing and in most cases never practiced.\"\n\nDuring the 1990s, federal courts began reversing earlier decisions made by the patent office that restricted the patenting of software. In 1997, software companies Trend Micro, Integralis, McAffee and Symantec fought a patent war over antivirus software. In 1999, a patent for \"one-click ordering technology\" led to a patent war between Amazon.com and Barnes & Noble. In 2004, Sony and Kodak engaged in a patent war over digital cameras, a dispute which lasted until 2007. \n\nThe current smartphone wars started in the late 2000s. According to \"PC Magazine\", Apple brought the patent wars to the smartphone market by its desire to \"go thermonuclear\" on Google's competing Android operating system for mobile devices. This triggered a \"war\" between major technology companies in the mobile market. Apple has been accused of having links to the company Digitude Innovations, which has been labeled as a patent troll. Following this warfare, Apple itself has also been called a patent-troll.\n\nPatents are intended to protect intellectual property and encourage innovation, granting innovative companies a temporary competitive advantage over their rivals; however, patents have been used offensively through threats of litigation. This forces companies to allocate time and money that could have been better spent on research and development. \"Businessweek\" has written that \"only lawyers win in patent wars.\" \n\nThere are numerous proposals aimed at reducing the risk of patent wars. Twitter announced in 2012 an \"Innovator's Patent Agreement\" promising not to use its patents opportunistically and without the consent of the company's employees. There have been commentators favoring abolishing patents entirely, outside of the industries that require them.\n"}
{"id": "1461907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1461907", "title": "Petition of right", "text": "Petition of right\n\nIn English law, a petition of right was a remedy available to subjects to recover property from the Crown.\n\nBefore the Crown Proceedings Act 1947, the British Crown could not be sued in contract. However, as it was seen to be desirable that Crown contractors could obtain redress, lest they be inhibited from taking on such work, the petition of right came to be used in such situations, especially after the Petitions of Right Act 1860 simplified the process. Before the petition could be heard by the courts, it had to be endorsed with the words \"fiat justitia\" on the advice of the Home Secretary and Attorney-General. This Latin phrase was normally translated as \"Let right be done\".\n\nOne of the most famous \"causes célèbres\" in English law, the Archer-Shee case, arose out of proceedings on a petition of right.\n\nSection 1 of the Crown Proceedings Act 1947 allows claims for which a petition would previously have been demanded to be brought in the courts directly as against any other defendant. However, a petition and \"fiat\" still appear to be necessary for personal claims against the monarch.\n\nA petition of right was available:\n\nWhere the Crown was in possession of the property of the applicant, and the title of the Crown appeared by record, as by inquest of office, the remedy was somewhat different and was called monstrans de droit. Petition of right was not available in respect of engagements in the naval, military or civil service, which, were not generally considered as contracts of employment but as appointments enjoyed \"during the pleasure\" of the Crown. This relationship based on the royal prerogative only ended in 1996. Nor was the action available for breach of public duty, \"e.g.\" a failure to perform treaty obligations, nor for trespass or negligence or other torts by Crown servants. Where such acts were wrongful the remedy was still by action against the official as an individual and not in his official capacity.\n\nAt common law the petition went through its earliest stages in Chancery. The petition suggested a right disputing the title of the Crown, and the Crown endorsed the petition soit droit fait la partie. Then a commission was issued to inquire into the truth of the suggestion. After the return to the commission, the Attorney-General filed a response and the merits were determined as in any \"inter partes\" action. If the right was determined against the Crown, judgment of amoveas manes was given in favour of the applicant.\n\nThe law as to petitions of right applied to Ireland but not to Scotland, and a right to present such a petition was also thought to exist in colonies whose law was based on the common law of England. Ultimately, in many colonies legislation was passed with respect to claims against the government which made it unnecessary to resort to a petition of right.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15717564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15717564", "title": "Price v. Pennsylvania Railroad Co.", "text": "Price v. Pennsylvania Railroad Co.\n\nPrice v. Pennsylvania Railroad Co., 113 U.S. 218 (1885), was a case where the plaintiff sued the defendant for the loss of her husband by a death which the jury found, by a special verdict, to be caused by the negligence of the company's servant or servants.\n\nThe verdict read as follows:\n\nWe find for the plaintiff in the sum of (5,000) five thousand dollars, subject to the opinion of the court on the question of law reserved, to-wit: we find that A. J. Price at the time of his death was route agent of the United States Post Office Department, duly appointed and commissioned, his route being on the Western Pennsylvania Railroad from Allegheny City to Blairsville, in the State of Pennsylvania; that his duties as such agent required him to be on the mail car on the mail train of said road to receive and deliver mail matter; that for the purpose of his business and that of the postal department, and in accordance with the laws of the United States and the regulations of the Post Office Department, and acceptance thereof by the railroad company, one end of the baggage car on the mail train was divided off and fitted up for the use of the department in carrying the mails, and that the duties of the said route agent required him to be in said room in the car during the running of the train; that said Price was daily on said train, making a round trip from Allegheny City to Blairsville and return; that on the 23d day of July, 1877, while at his post in his room on said car, Mr. Price was killed in a collision of the mail train coming west with another train of the defendant company going east.\n\nThat said collision was caused by the negligence or misconduct of the conductor and engineer in charge of the train going east in neglecting or disobeying orders, and in failing to take necessary precaution to avoid a collision.\n\nWe find that the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, by resolution dated April 16, 1868, accepted the provisions of the Act of Assembly, approved 4th April 1868, P.L. p. 59, and that [at the] time of the collision the Pennsylvania Railroad Company was operating the Western Pennsylvania Railroad under lease.\n\nIf, under this finding of facts, and under the acts of Congress and acts of assembly offered in evidence, and the postal regulations in evidence, the court should be of the opinion that the plaintiffs, as widow and children of deceased, are entitled to recover, then judgment to be entered on the verdict in favor of the plaintiffs.\n\nIf the court should be of the opinion that the law is with the defendant, then judgment to be entered in favor of the defendant non obstante veredicto.\n\nThe trial judge held that the deceased was a person engaged in and about the train, within the meaning of the act of 1868, but that he was also within the proviso as a passenger, and gave judgment for plaintiff on the verdict. The judgment was reversed by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania on the ground that the deceased was not a passenger within the meaning of the proviso, and a judgment was rendered for defendant, to which this writ of error was prosecuted.\n\nA person traveling on a railroad in charge of mails, under the provision of § 4000 Rev.Stat., does not thereby acquire the rights of a passenger in case he is injured on the railroad through negligence of the company's servants.\n\nA statute of Pennsylvania passed April 15, 1851, Purdon, Tit. Negligence 2, 1093, makes the provision, now become common, for a recovery by the widow or children of a person whose death was caused by the negligence of another, of damages for the loss of the deceased.\n\nA statute passed April 4, 1868, Purdon, Tit. Negligence 5, 1094, provides that \"Where any person shall sustain personal injury or loss of life while lawfully engaged or employed on or about the road, works, depot, and premises of a railroad company, or in or about any train or car therein or thereon, of which company such person is not an employee, the right of action or recovery in all such cases against the company shall be such only as would exist if such person were an employee, provided that this section shall not apply to passengers.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "691826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=691826", "title": "Proctor", "text": "Proctor\n\nProctor, a variant of \"procurator\", is a person who takes charge of, or acts for, another. The word \"proctor\" is frequently used to describe someone who oversees an examination or dormitory.\n\nThe title is used in England in three principal contexts:\n\nA proctor was a legal practitioner in the ecclesiastical and admiralty courts. Historically, proctors were licensed by the Archbishop of Canterbury to undertake the duties that were performed in common law courts by attorneys and in the courts of equity by solicitors. Later, the Judicature Acts of 1873 and 1875, which created the Supreme Court of Judicature, combined the three roles into the common profession of \"solicitor of the Supreme Court\".\n\nIn the admiralty courts, a proctor or procurator was an officer who, in conjunction with the King's Proctor, acted as the attorney or solicitor in all causes concerning the Lord High Admiral's affairs in the High Court of Admiralty and other courts. The King's Proctor so acted in all causes concerning the King.\n\nThe Queen's Proctor (or King's Proctor) is the proctor or solicitor representing the Crown in the courts of probate and divorce. The office has for many years been combined with that of the Treasury Solicitor, whose formal title is Her (or His) Majesty's Procurator-General and Treasury Solicitor. In petitions of divorce, or for declaration of nullity of marriage, the Queen's Proctor may, under direction of the Attorney General, intervene in the suit for the purpose of arguing any question that the court deems expedient to have argued. His or her powers are set out in section 8 of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973, and include the power to show cause against a \"decree nisi\" being made absolute, usually on receipt of information indicating that the court has been misled into granting a decree. (See also the Family Proceedings Rules 1991 (as amended), Rule 2.46).\n\nProctor is a term that still survives in Western Australia. Until it was amended in 1992 and later superseded by the Legal Profession Act in 2008, the Legal Practitioners Act 1893 provided for legal practitioners in Western Australia to be admitted and entitled to practise as \"practitioners\". That term was then defined as 'a person admitted and entitled to practise as a barrister, solicitor, attorney and proctor of the Supreme Court of Western Australia, or in any one or more of these capacities'. Whilst it was theoretically possible to apply for admission in any of these capacities, as there was no separate qualification for such separate admissions, the standard practice (pre 1992) was for all persons to be admitted as barristers, solicitors and proctors of the Supreme Court of Western Australia. Many survive today.\n\nA representative of the clergy in convocation. The Lower Houses of the Convocations of Canterbury and York include \"specially elected\" proctors (the deans of cathedrals and the Dean of either Jersey or Guernsey) and \"directly elected\" proctors (representing beneficed and licensed clergy, clergy with permission to officiate, archdeacons, clergy holding office in a cathedral, religious communities, universities and theological education institutions),\n\nProctor has two completely different meanings in education: it can refer either to a high official in certain universities, or to any teacher or other staff member at a university, secondary school or even elementary school when they are supervising the administration of a test or examination. In British, Canadian, Australian and South African English, persons acting in this latter capacity are referred to as \"invigilators\".\n\nThe early history of the office at Cambridge is obscure, but it seems that the Proctors have always represented the colleges in University proceedings. In the past the Proctors administered the university's finances, acted as examiners for all candidates for the degree of Bachelor of Arts, prosecuted anyone suspected of unfair trading, and had a multitude of other tasks. At present their functions are twofold: (1) taking part in all university ceremonials, and (2) enforcing discipline in the case of members of the University who are \"in statu pupillari\" (undergraduates, Bachelors of Arts and Bachelors of Laws).\n\nAt Cambridge University the Proctors are nominated every May by colleges identified in a predetermined cycle. They then serve for one year from 1 October, assisted by their Deputy Proctors and two Pro-Proctors. They must have been a member of the Senate for three years, and must have resided two years at the university. The two Pro-Proctors are not, as at Oxford, nominated by the Proctors, but are also elected by the Regent House on the nomination of the colleges, each college having the right to nominate a Pro-Proctor for the year next before that in which it nominates the Proctor (Grace of 26 February 1863). Two additional Pro-Proctors are also elected by the Senate each year, on the nomination of the Vice- Chancellor and Proctors, to assist the latter in the maintenance of discipline (Grace of 6 June 1878).\n\nThe Proctors for 2016–17 are Gordon Chesterman (Senior Proctor) of St Edmund's College and Dr Cristiano Andrea Ristuccia (Junior Proctor) of Trinity Hall.\n\nThe Deputies to the Proctors are Dr David Woodman (Deputy to the Senior Proctor) of Robinson College, David Goode (Deputy to the Senior Proctor) of Wolfson College and Wing Commander (Retired) Richard Keith \"Dick\" Taplin (Deputy to the Junior Proctor) of Gonville & Caius College. \n\nThe Pro-Proctors are Timothy Milner (Senior Pro-Proctor) of Darwin College and Dr Gemma Burgess (Junior Pro-Proctor) of Newnham College.\n\nThe first hundred years of Proctorial records are mostly lost, but the Proctors' Office web site has a more or less complete list of the Proctors since 1314.\n\nThe Proctors are \"ex officio\" members of the Board of Scrutiny, the Board of Examinations, and various other bodies. Their presence is essential at all Congregations of the Regent House, at which the Senior Proctor reads all the Graces and the Junior Proctor takes the vote of the Regent House. If any Grace is opposed by any member of the Senate saying \"non-placet\", the Proctors take the votes of those present and announce the result. Graces are offered not only for making changes in University Statutes and Ordinances and for appointing examiners and the like, but also for granting degrees. When a degree is to be taken, the college of the candidate presents a \"supplicat\" or petition for the degree; this petition is approved by the Regent House, if and when they have satisfied themselves that the candidate has fulfilled the conditions, and is read at the Congregation by the Senior Proctor: these \"supplicats\" are practically never opposed, but Graces for new Statutes and Ordinances are frequently opposed, and on very important occasions such as the election of a new Chancellor many hundreds of non-resident members of the Senate come up to record their votes.\n\nThe proctors' powers as to discipline have a very long history. As far as concerns members of the university they have authority to impose certain fines for minor offences, such as not wearing academic dress on occasions when it is ordered, and also to order a student not to be out of their college after a certain hour for a certain number of days (\"gating\"). For more serious offences, the proctor generally reports the matter to the authorities of the offender's college to be dealt with by them, or as a last resort brings the offender before the university court of discipline, which has power to rusticate or expel. The power of the proctors over persons who are not members of the university dates from charters granted by Elizabeth I and James I, which empowered the university authorities to search for undesirable characters, men and women, rogues, vagabonds, and other \"personas de male suspectas\" (persons suspected of evil), and punish them by imprisonment or banishment. In recent times this power was often exercised with respect to prostitutes. The proctors promenaded the streets attended by their servants (the bulldogs) who are always sworn in as special constables. (They are now called 'Constables', and retain full police powers of arrest within 5 miles (8 km) of Great St Mary's Church, deemed to be the centre of the University; Proctors now do not have power of arrest.) If occasion arose, the proctor could arrest a suspected woman and have her taken to the Spinning House (for which Thomas Hobson the carrier had left an endowment); the next day the woman was brought before the vice-chancellor, who had power to commit her to the Spinning House; as a general rule the sentence was for no longer than three weeks. For this purpose the Vice-Chancellor sat \"in camera\" and the jurisdiction had nothing to do with that of the vice-chancellor's court. In 1898 attention was called to this procedure by the case of a girl named Daisy Hopkins, who was arrested and committed to the Spinning House. Application was made on her behalf to the Queen's Bench Division for a writ of \"habeas corpus\", and when the application came on it appeared that there had been a technical irregularity (the prisoner not having been formally charged when brought before the Vice-Chancellor); so the writ was granted and the prisoner released. She afterwards brought an action against the proctor, which failed. It was then decided to abolish the practice of hearing these cases \"in camera\". The whole practice was, however, objected to by the authorities of the town, and after a conference an agreement was reached: the proctorial jurisdiction over persons not members of the university was abolished (1904).\n\nThe Junior Proctor has special responsibility for university societies and for resolving disputes arising from the Cambridge University Students' Union and the Graduate Union.\n\nThe Special Pro-Proctor for Motor Vehicles is responsible for licensing the keeping and using of motor vehicles (other than mopeds) within of Great St Mary's Church by University students who have not yet reached MA status and are in residence in term or in the Long Vacation period of residence. The Motor Proctor also has the power to impose a fine of up to £175 on students breaching the regulations on the keeping and using of motor vehicles.\n\nThe Proctors of Oxford University are senior officers of the University who are responsible for enforcing University discipline and sanctions, for handling complaints against the University, and for conducting public examinations (often at the Examination Schools). They are elected annually by the colleges. Two Proctors are elected each year: a Senior and a Junior Proctor.\n\nThe reform of the university statutes in 2002 reorganised the disciplinary system of the University and reduced the powers of the Proctors. However, they still act as ombudsmen for the University, and handle formal complaints by and against students (although more minor disciplinary matters are usually dealt with by the Dean of each college). They have the power to issue fines to members of the University for numerous offences, including cheating in examinations.\n\nPrior to 2003, the Proctors were aided in disciplinary matters by the Oxford University Police (who wore bowler hats and were generally known as \"Bulldogs\"); the University Police were a private constabulary with full powers of arrest within the precincts of the University and within four miles (6 km) of any University building. However, after receiving public criticism in 2002 for their exercise of authority over citizens of Oxford who were not members of the University, the force was disbanded by the University Council in 2003, due partly to the excessive expense of complying with new Government requirements on police training and complaints procedures. Today, the Constables have been redesignated as \"Proctors' Officers\" and continue to serve under the Proctors, but no longer have the powers of police constables.\n\nOnline proctoring is the monitoring or invigilation of assessments taken remotely.\n\nOnline proctors verify test-taker identity and monitor to prevent cheating using a variety of methods, including live, record-and-review, and automated proctoring. Online proctoring services work with colleges, universities, corporations, and other certification providers to offer identity verification services and assessment monitoring.\nDemand for online proctoring has expanded in recent years as a result of rapid expansions in online learning. In 2006, the Department of Education waived the so-called “50 percent rule,” which stipulated that U.S. students in online degree programs could only receive federal student aid if half of their programs were campus-based. Today, one in three students take at least one course online during their college career. In addition, instructors in face-to-face classes can also administer exams online.\n\nHigher education institutions around the world make use of online proctoring for tens of thousands of exams. The 17 campuses of the University of North Carolina proctor between 30,000 and 40,000 exams online per year. At the fully online Western Governors University, 30,000 exams are proctored online each month. Recent estimates suggest that there are about 15 providers of online proctoring.\n\nResearch suggests that students are equally likely to cheat online as they are in person. However, one study found that nearly three-quarters of college students hold the perception that cheating online is easier than cheating in person. In 2016, USA Today reported on research by Examity which suggests that 6% of students violate rules for proctored online exams.\n\nSome online proctoring providers give colleges and universities access to anonymized, aggregated data on proctoring and cheating rates. These analytics tools allow institutions to measure their violation rates against other schools, as well as to track incidents by time of year and type of course, among other metrics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26563252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26563252", "title": "Prostitution law", "text": "Prostitution law\n\nProstitution law varies widely from country to country, and between jurisdictions within a country. At one extreme, prostitution or sex work is legal in some places and regarded as a profession, while at the other extreme, it is a crime punishable by death in some other places.\n\nIn many jurisdictions, prostitution – the commercial exchange of sex for money, goods, service, or some other benefit agreed upon by the transacting parties – is illegal, while in others it is legal, but surrounding activities, such as soliciting in a public place, operating a brothel, and pimping, may be illegal. In many jurisdictions where prostitution is legal, it is regulated; in others it is unregulated. Where exchange of sex for money is criminalized, it may be the sex worker (most commonly), the client, or both, who are subject to prosecution.\n\nProstitution has been condemned as a single form of human rights abuse, and an attack on the dignity and worth of human beings, while other schools of thought state that sex work is a legitimate occupation; whereby a person trades or exchanges sexual acts for money and/or goods. Some believe that women in developing countries are especially vulnerable to sexual exploitation and human trafficking, while others distinguish this practice from the global sex industry, in which \"sex work is done by consenting adults, where the act of selling or buying sexual services is not a violation of human rights.\" The term \"sex work\" is used interchangeably with \"prostitution\" in this article, in accordance with the World Health Organisation (WHO 2001; WHO 2005) and the United Nations (UN 2006; UNAIDS 2002).\n\nIn most countries, sex work is controversial. Members of certain religions oppose prostitution, viewing it as contrary or a threat to their moral codes, while other parties view prostitution as a \"necessary evil\". Sex worker activists and organizations believe the issue of sex worker human rights is of greatest importance, including those related to freedom of speech, travel, immigration, work, marriage, parenthood, insurance, health insurance, and housing.\n\nSome feminist organizations are opposed to prostitution, considering it a form of exploitation in which males dominate women, and as a practice that is the result of a patriarchal social order. For example, the European Women's Lobby, which bills itself as the largest umbrella organization of women’s associations in the European Union, has condemned prostitution as \"an intolerable form of male violence\". In February 2014, the members of the European Parliament voted in a non-binding resolution, (adopted by 343 votes to 139; with 105 abstentions), in favor of the 'Swedish Model' of criminalizing the buying, but not the selling of sex. In 2014, the Council of Europe has made a similar recommendation, stating that \"While each system presents advantages and disadvantages, policies prohibiting the purchase of sexual services are those that are more likely to have a positive impact on reducing trafficking in human beings\".\n\nThe Wolfenden Committee Report (1957), which informed the debate in the United Kingdom, states:\n[the function of the criminal law is] to preserve public order and decency, to protect the citizen from what is injurious or offensive and to provide safeguards against the exploitation and corruption of others, ... It is not, in our view, the function of the law to intervene in the private lives of citizens, or to seek to enforce any particular code of behaviour, further than is necessary to carry out the purposes of what we have outlined.\n\nViews on what the best legal framework on prostitution should be are often influenced by whether one can view prostitution as morally acceptable or not; indeed Save the Children wrote: \"The issue however, gets mired in controversy and confusion when prostitution too is considered as a violation of the basic human rights of both adult women and minors, and equal to sexual exploitation per se. From this standpoint then, trafficking and prostitution become conflated with each other.\"\n\nIn December 2012, UNAIDS, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, released the \"Prevention and treatment of HIV and other sexually transmitted infections for sex workers in low- and middle- income countries\" document that contains the following \"Good practice recommendations\":\n\n\nLegal themes tend to focus on four issues: victimization (including potential victimhood), ethics and morality, freedom of the individual, and general benefit or harm to society (including harm arising indirectly from matters connected to prostitution).\n\nMany people who support legal prostitution argue that prostitution is a consensual sex act between adults and a victimless crime, thus the government should not prohibit this practice.\n\nMany anti-prostitution advocates hold that prostitutes themselves are often victims, arguing that prostitution is a practice which can lead to serious psychological and often physical long-term effects for the prostitutes. They may also argue that the act of prostitution is not by definition a fully consensual act, as they say that all prostitutes are \"forced\" to sell sex, either by somebody else or by the unfortunate circumstances of their lives (such as poverty, lack of opportunity, drug addiction, a history of childhood abuse or neglect, etc.).\n\nIn 1999, Sweden became the first country to make it illegal to pay for sex, but not to be a prostitute (the client commits a crime, but not the prostitute). A similar law was passed in Norway and in Iceland (in 2009). Canada (2014), France (2016) and the Republic of Ireland (2017) have also adopted a similar model to that of the Nordic countries (Denmark excluded).\n\nIt is argued that street prostitution is not victimless as it may damage the reputation and quality of life in the neighbourhood and diminish the value of property. Peter De Marneffe notes that many prostitutes have not finished school, affecting their ability to be able to have a career that they might have preferred. Therefore, prostitution also affects the application of their talent in other areas of the economy in which they can succeed.\nMaxwell (2000) and other researcher have found substantial evidence that there is strong co-occurrence between prostitution, drug use, drug selling, and involvement in non-drug crimes, particularly property crime. Because the activity is considered criminal in many jurisdictions, its substantial revenues are not contributing to the tax revenues of the state, and its workers are not routinely screened for sexually transmitted diseases which is dangerous in cultures favouring unprotected sex and leads to significant expenditure in the health services. According to the \"Estimates of the costs of crime in Australia\", there is an \"estimated $96 million loss of taxation revenue from undeclared earnings of prostitution\".\nOn top of these physical issues, it is also argued that there are psychological issues that prostitutes face from certain experiences and through the duration or repetition. Some go through experiences that may result \"in lasting feelings of worthlessness, shame, and self-hatred\". De Marneffe further argues that this may affect the prostitute's ability to perform sexual acts for the purpose of building a trusting intimate relationship, which may be important for their partner. The lack of a healthy relationship can lead to higher divorce rates and can influence unhealthy relationship to their children, influencing their future relationships. Although this is more difficult to control by law, it should be considered when creating policies in protecting prostitutes' psychological health.\n\nCondom use is not always a part of sex work, and if sex work were legalized, this could change. By keeping prostitution illegal, there are no laws to govern how the work is performed. It is a well-known fact that condoms help reduce the spread of sexually transmitted diseases, including AIDS. If prostitution was legalized, one of the laws could be the requirement of the use of condoms. It was reported in 2010 that out of eighty-six countries, only about twenty eight countries reported regular condom use in sex work (\"sex workers\"). If sex work was legalized, the amount of condom use would increase, leading to better protection for both the worker and the client.\n\nThe United Nations Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others favors criminalizing the activities of those seen as exploiting or coercing prostitutes (so-called \"pimping\" and \"procuring\" laws), while leaving sex workers free from regulation. The Convention states that \"prostitution and the accompanying evil of the traffic in persons for the purpose of prostitution are incompatible with the dignity and worth of the human person\".\n\nSigma Huda, a UN special reporter on trafficking in persons said: \"For the most part, prostitution as actually practiced in the world usually does satisfy the elements of trafficking. It is rare that one finds a case in which the path to prostitution and/or a person’s experience with prostitution does not involve, at the very least, an abuse of power and/or an abuse of vulnerability. Power and vulnerability in this context must be understood to include disparities based on gender, race, ethnicity and poverty. Put simply the road to prostitution and life within “the life” is rarely marked by empowerment or adequate options.\"\n\nHowever, sex worker activists and organizations distinguish between human trafficking and legitimate sex work, and assert the importance of recognizing that trafficking is not synonymous with sex work. The Sex Workers Alliance Ireland organization explains: \"victims of human trafficking may be forced to work in industries such as agriculture, domestic service as well as the sex industry. It is critical to distinguish human trafficking, which is a violation of human rights, from voluntary migration.\" The Open Society Foundations organization states: \"sex work is done by consenting adults, where the act of selling or buying sexual services is not a violation of human rights. In fact, sex workers are natural allies in the fight against trafficking. The UNAIDS Guidance Note on HIV and Sex Work recognizes that sex worker organizations are best positioned to refer people who are victims of trafficking to appropriate services.\"\n\nAccording to a 2007 report by the UNODC (United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime), the most common destinations for victims of human trafficking are Thailand, Japan, Israel, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Italy, Turkey, and the US. The major sources of trafficked persons include Thailand, China, Nigeria, Albania, Bulgaria, Belarus, Moldova, and Ukraine.\n\nResearchers at Göteborg University released a report in 2010 that argued that prostitution laws affect trafficking flows.\n\nNGOs, academics and government departments often categorise the approach to prostitution laws and approach into 5 models:\n\nAll aspects of prostitution are criminalised. Often the sex trade is seen as a violation of human dignity, moral or religious beliefs. e.g. Russia (Also known as \"criminalization\".)\n\nWhilst prostitution itself is legal, 3rd party involvement is generally prohibited. Solicitation is also often prohibited. Whilst this model recognises prostitutes may chose work in the trade, it is morally wrong. Laws are designed to stop prostitution impacting on the public. e.g. England\n\nNeo-abolitionists believe there is no free choice for people entering prostitution, it violates their human rights and that prostitution is the sale and consumption of human bodies. Whilst prostitutes themselves commit no crime, clients and any third party involvement is criminalised. e.g. Sweden (Also called the \"Swedish model\" or \"Nordic model\".)\n\nWhilst prostitution is not prohibited, there is legislation to control and regulate it. The extent and type of control varies from country to country and may be regulated by work permits, licensing or tolerance zones. e.g. The Netherlands (also called \"regulationist\".)\n\nThe decriminalization of sex work is the removal of criminal penalties for sex work. In most countries, sex work, the consensual provision of sexual services for money or goods, is criminalized. Removing criminal prosecution for sex workers creates a safer and healthier environment and allows them to live with less social exclusion and stigma. e.g. New Zealand\n\nAlthough prostitution is mainly performed by female prostitutes there are also male, transgender and transvestite prostitutes performing straight and/or gay sex work. In Vienna, in April 2007, there were 1,352 female and 21 male prostitutes officially registered. The number of prostitutes who are not registered (and therefore work illegally) is not known. A recent study by TAMPEP, on the prostitute population from Germany, estimated that 93% of prostitutes were female, 3% transgender and 4% male.\n\nArrest statistics show that in those states where buying and selling sex are equally illegal, the tendency is to arrest the service provider and not the customer, even though there are significantly more customers than sellers. Thus, it is a fact that more women than men are arrested, and the true extent of the crime is underreported. James (1982) reports that, in the United States, the arrest ratio of women to men was 3:2, but notes that many of the men arrested were the prostitutes rather than the clients.\n\n\"By 1975, Thailand, with the help of World Bank economists, had instituted a National Plan of Tourist Development, which specifically underwrote the sex industry ... Without directly subsidising prostitution, the Act [the Entertainment Places Act] referred repeatedly to the personal services' sector. According to Thai feminist Sukyana Hantrakul, the law 'was enacted to pave the way for whorehouses to be legalised in the guise of massage parlours, bars, nightclubs, tea houses, etc.\" See Aarons Sach, \"A prostitute at nine,\" The Times of India Sunday Review, 22 January 1995. With particular reference to children, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child creates specific obligations. Article 34 stipulates that:\nAs of 2000, twenty four countries had enacted legislation criminalising child sex tourism, e.g. in Australia, the Crimes (Child Sex Tourism) Amendment Act 1994 covers a wide range of sexual activities with children under the age of 16 committed overseas. Laws with extraterritorial application are intended to fill the gap when countries are unwilling or unable to take action against known offenders. The rationale is that child-sex offenders should not escape justice simply because they are in a position to return to their home country. There is little research into whether the child sex tourism legislation has any real deterrent effect on adults determined to have sex with children overseas. It may be that these people are\nsimply more careful in their activities as a result of the laws. There are three obvious problems:\n\nIn most countries where prostitution is illegal, the prohibition of the sex trade is subject to debate and controversy among some people and some organizations, with some voices saying that the fact that prostitution is illegal increases criminal activities and negatively affects the prostitutes.\n\nThose who support prohibition or abolition of prostitution argue that keeping prostitution illegal is the best way to prevent abusive and dangerous activities (child prostitution, human trafficking etc.). They argue that a system which allows legalized and regulated prostitution has very negative effects and does not improve the situation of the prostitutes; such legal systems only lead to crime and abuse: many women who work in licensed brothels are still controlled by outside pimps; many brothel owners are criminals themselves; the creation of a legal and regulated prostitution industry only leads to another parallel illegal industry, as many women do not want to register and work legally (since this would rob them of their anonymity) and other women can not be hired by legal brothels because of underlying problems (e.g., drug abuse); legalizing prostitution makes it more socially acceptable to buy sex, creating a huge demand for prostitutes (both by local men and by foreigners engaging in sex tourism) and, as a result, human trafficking and underage prostitution increase in order to satisfy this demand.\n\nA five-country survey of 175 men for the International Organisation for Migration found that 75% preferred female prostitutes aged 25 or under, and over 20% preferred those aged 18 or under, although \"generally clients did not wish to buy sex from prostitutes they thought to be too young to consent to the sexual encounter.\"\n\nSome have argued that an extremely high level of violence is inherent to prostitution; they claim that many prostitutes have been the subject of violence, rape and coercion before entering prostitution including as children, and that many young women and girls enter prostitution directly from state care in at least England, Norway, Australia and Canada.\n\nAbolitionists believe tolerance of prostitution is tolerance of inegalitarian sexuality in which male sexual demands can override women's sexual autonomy and overall well-being.\n\nIn some countries, (or administrative subdivisions within a country), prostitution is \"legal and regulated\". In these jurisdictions, there is a specific law, which explicitly allows the practice of prostitution if certain conditions are met (as opposed to places where prostitution is legal only because there is no law to prohibit it).\n\nIn countries where prostitution is regulated, the prostitutes may be registered, they may be hired by a brothel, they may organize trade unions, they may be covered by workers' protection laws, their proceeds may be taxable, they may be required to undergo regular health checks, etc. The degree of regulation, however, varies very much by jurisdiction.\n\nSuch approaches are taken with the stance that prostitution is impossible to eliminate, and thus these societies have chosen to regulate it in an attempt to increase transparency and therefore reduce the more undesirable consequences. Goals of such regulations include controlling sexually transmitted disease, reducing sexual slavery, controlling where brothels may operate and dissociating prostitution from crime syndicates.\n\nIn countries where prostitution is legal and regulated, it is usual for the practice to be restricted to particular areas.\n\nIn countries where prostitution itself is legal, but associated activities are outlawed, prostitution is generally \"not\" regulated.\n\nNot all countries with regulated prostitution require mandatory health checks (because such checks are seen as too intrusive, a violation of human rights and a discriminatory policy, since the clients don't have to be subjected to them).\n\nA few jurisdictions, however, require that prostitutes undergo regular health checks for sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nIn Nevada, state law requires that registered brothel prostitutes be checked weekly for several sexually transmitted diseases and monthly for HIV; furthermore, condoms are mandatory for all oral sex and sexual intercourse. Brothel owners may be held liable if customers become infected with HIV after a prostitute has tested positive for the virus. Prostitution outside the licensed brothels is illegal throughout the state; all forms of prostitution are illegal in Las Vegas (and Clark County, which contains its metropolitan area), in Reno (and Washoe County), in Carson City, and in a few other parts of the state (currently 8 out of Nevada's 16 counties have active brothels, see Prostitution in Nevada).\n\nThe regulation of prostitution is problematic because standard labor regulations cannot be applied to prostitution. The typical relation between employer and employee where the employer is in a position of authority over the employee is, in the case of prostitution, viewed by many as contrary to the physical integrity of the prostitute. It is forbidden to order a person to have sex on a given moment at a given place. Many sex operators also do not want to pay social security contributions, which comes with paid labor. Therefore, many prostitutes, in countries where prostitution is regulated, are officially listed as independent contractors. Sex operators typically operate as facilitators only and do not interfere with the prostitutes.\n\nThe existence of regulated prostitution generally implies that prostitution is illegal outside of the regulated context. For example, Nevada has laws prohibiting the following: engagement in prostitution outside of licensed brothels, encouragement of others to become prostitutes, and living off the proceeds of a sex worker.\n\nDemands to legalise prostitution as a means to contain exploitation in the sex industry is now gaining support from organisations such as the UN and the Supreme Court of India.\n\nBelow there is a presentation of the legal status of prostitution around the world, as of May 2018\n\nIn these countries prostitution itself (exchanging sex for money) is illegal. The punishment for prostitution varies considerably: in some countries, it can incur the death penalty, in other jurisdictions, it is a crime punishable with a prison sentence, while in others it is a lesser administrative offense punishable only with a fine.\n\n\nIn these countries, there is no specific law prohibiting the exchange of sex for money, but in general most forms of procuring (pimping) are illegal. These countries also generally have laws against soliciting in a public place (e.g., a street) or advertising prostitution, making it difficult to engage in prostitution without breaking any law. In countries like India, though prostitution is legal, it is illegal when committed in a hotel.\n\n\nIn these countries, although prostitutes themselves commit no crime, clients and any third party involvement is criminalised. Also called the \"Swedish model\" or \"Nordic model\".\n\n\nIn some countries, prostitution is legal and regulated; although activities like pimping and street-walking are generally illegal. The degree of regulation varies by country; for example, not all countries require mandatory health checks because such checks are seen as intrusive, a violation of human rights and discriminatory.\n\n\nThe decriminalization of sex work is the removal of criminal penalties for sex work. Removing criminal prosecution for sex workers creates a safer and healthier environment and allows them to live with less social exclusion and stigma.\n\n\nIn these countries prostitution is permitted, prohibited or regulated by local laws rather than national laws. For example, in Mexico, prostitution is prohibited in some states but regulated in others.\n\n\nThe enforcement of the anti-prostitution laws varies from country to country or from region to region. In many places, there can be a discrepancy between the laws which exist on the books and what occurs in practice. For example, in Thailand, prostitution is illegal, but in practice, it is tolerated and regulated. Such situations are common in many Asian countries.\n\nIn areas where prostitution or the associated activities are illegal, prostitutes are commonly charged with crimes ranging from minor infractions such as loitering to more serious crimes like tax evasion. Their clients can also be charged with solicitation of prostitution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12707108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12707108", "title": "Rattlesnake round-up", "text": "Rattlesnake round-up\n\nRattlesnake round-ups, also known as rattlesnake rodeos, are annual events common in the rural Midwest and Southern United States, where the primary attractions are captured wild rattlesnakes which are sold, displayed, killed for food or animal products (such as snakeskin) or released back into the wild. Rattlesnake round-ups originated in the first half of the 20th century for adventure and excitement, as well as to achieve local extirpation of perceived pest species. Typically a round-up will also include trade stalls, food, rides, and other features associated with fairs, as well as information on rattlesnake biology, identification, and safety. Round-ups take place in at least ten states, with largest events in Texas and Oklahoma. The largest rattlesnake round-up in the United States is held in Sweetwater, Texas. Held every year since 1958, the event currently attracts approximately 30,000 visitors per year and in 2006 each annual Round-Up was said to result in the capture of 1% of the state's rattlesnake population.\n\nRound-ups have economic and social importance to the communities that hold them. The events often attract thousands of tourists, which can bring hundreds of thousands of dollars of revenue into small towns; the Sweetwater Round-Up's economic impact was estimated to exceed US$5 million in 2006. Snake collectors often make large profits selling snakes at the events.\n\nCash prizes and trophies are often given out to participants in categories like heaviest, longest, or most snakes. These incentives result in all size classes of snakes being targeted equally. Most roundups target the western diamondback rattlesnake (\"Crotalus atrox\"), though some events target prairie rattlesnakes (\"C. viridis\"), timber rattlesnakes (\"C. horridus\"), or the eastern diamondback rattlesnake (\"C. adamanteus\").\n\nA harvest of several hundred to several thousand kilograms of snakes is typical for many roundups. In Texas, up to 125,000 snakes could have been removed annually from the wild during the 1990s. However, effects of roundups on rattlesnake populations are unclear. Harvest size at roundups is highly variable from year to year but does not show a consistent downward trend, even after decades of annual roundup events in some areas. \"C. atrox\" is listed as Least Concern by the IUCN. However, poaching and roundups have been destructive to populations of timber rattlesnakes (\"C. horridus\") in the northeastern United States. Some groups are concerned that \"C. atrox\" local populations may be declining rapidly, even if the global population is unaffected. Rattlesnake round-ups became a concern by animal welfare groups and conservationists due to claims of animal cruelty and excessive threat of future endangerment. In response, some Round-Ups impose catch size restrictions or releasing captured snakes back into the wild.\n\n"}
{"id": "14632003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14632003", "title": "Realization (tax)", "text": "Realization (tax)\n\nRealization, for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, is a requirement in determining what must be included as income subject to taxation. It should not be confused with the separate concept of Recognition (tax).\n\nRealization is a trigger for calculating income taxation. It is one of the three principles for defining income under the seminal case in this area of tax law, \"Commissioner v. Glenshaw Glass Co.\" In that case, the Supreme Court determined that income generally means \"undeniable accessions to wealth, clearly realized, and over which the taxpayers have complete dominion.\" It is also discussed in \"Helvering v. Bruun,\" in which the court explains that \"the realization of gain need not be in cash derived from the sale of an asset. Gain may occur as a result of exchange of property, payment of the taxpayer's indebtedness, relief from a liability, or other profit realized from the completion of a transaction.\" That is a checklist of types of realization triggers, but it is not exhaustive. Also, finding something of value can be a realization trigger, as the case of \"Cesarini v. United States\" demonstrates.\n\nRealization is generally straightforward, but there are instances at the margins in which the moment of realization can be tricky. One example of a tricky realization situation that has given rise to substantial debate is the 62nd home run ball hit by Mark McGwire. The ball was retrieved by a grounds crewman, Tim Forneris. Forneris gave McGwire the ball immediately after the game amidspeculation that the ball could fetch at least $1 million in an auction. Do either McGwire or Forneris have gross income? Did Forneris realize income when he caught the ball? Tax professors typically teach that it would be income to Forneris when he caught it, because it is treasure trove. As a result, the person who catches a home run ball would generally be required to include the value of the ball in income in the year in which the catch took place, whether or not the person sold the ball and whether or not he gave it back to the player or the team. That is an unpopular result, and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued Ruling 98-56 to change the result in the face of public pressure but only in the case in which the player returned the ball. Under that theory, an individual who catches a record-breaking ball has income at the very moment he possesses it unless he immediately disclaims possession by returning it. If he does not do that, the only remaining question is what value he ought to include in income. Because the treasure trove rule is that the value at the time the ball is \"reduced to possession,\" the answer must be a reasonable estimate of its market value, whether or not the recipient sells the ball.\n\n"}
{"id": "2112397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112397", "title": "Sanctions (law)", "text": "Sanctions (law)\n\nSanctions, in law and legal definition, are penalties or other means of enforcement used to provide incentives for obedience with the law, or with rules and regulations. Criminal sanctions can take the form of serious punishment, such as corporal or capital punishment, incarceration, or severe fines. Within the civil law context, sanctions are usually monetary fines, levied against a party to a lawsuit or his/her attorney, for violating rules of procedure, or for abusing the judicial process. The most severe sanction in a civil lawsuit is the involuntary dismissal, with prejudice, of a complaining party's cause of action, or of the responding party's answer. This has the effect of deciding the entire action against the sanctioned party without recourse, except to the degree that an appeal or trial \"de novo\" may be allowed because of reversible error.\n\nAs a noun, the term is usually used in the plural form, even if it only refers to a single event: if a judge fines a party, it is not said that he or she imposed a sanction, but that he or she imposed sanctions.\n\nA judge may sanction a party during a legal proceeding, by which it is implied that he or she imposes penalties. In the United States federal court system, certain types of conduct are sanctionable under Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.\n\nConversely and sometimes confusingly, the word may be used to imply \"approve of,\" especially in an official sense. \"The law sanctions such behavior\" would imply that the behavior spoken of enjoys the specific approval of law.\n\nTo sanction implies make a legal agreement. The word is derived from sanctus, to make holy. A legal agreement or sanction imposes approvals, rules, guidelines and penalties on conduct.\n\nThe Sanction is defined as \"an element associated with an accountability and which corresponds to the consequence resulting from the justification of the realisation (or not) of this accountability.\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25059963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25059963", "title": "Self-taxation", "text": "Self-taxation\n\nIn the former Soviet Union, self-taxation (, samooblozhenie) was a form of collecting various resources (money, food, etc.) in rural areas for local needs. Described as voluntary, it was established at a common meeting of the residents of an administrative unit (settlement or selsoviet). The common annual rate was set over the unit, with the rate for independent farmers had to be at least 25% higher than for kolkhozniks, sovkhozniks, and factory and state workers. It was regulated by several joint decrees of the Central Executive Committee and Sovnarkom of the Soviet Union with the same title, \"On the Self-Taxation of Rural Population\" (\"О самообложении сельского населения\") dated by August 16, 1930, August 1, 1931 and September 11, 1937. and later by other central governmental organs, such as Presidium Supreme Soviet (1984) \n"}
{"id": "25882874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25882874", "title": "Severin doctrine", "text": "Severin doctrine\n\nThe Severin doctrine (Severin v. United States Court of Claims, 1943. 99 Ct.Cl. 435) states that a general contractor cannot sue an owner on behalf of one of its subcontractors to recover monies due to the subcontractor unless the general contractor is itself liable to the subcontractor.\n\nPlaintiffs therefore had the burden of proving, not that someone suffered actual damages from the defendant's breach of contract, but that they, plaintiffs, suffered actual damages. \n\n"}
{"id": "1536822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1536822", "title": "Spanish Constitution of 1931", "text": "Spanish Constitution of 1931\n\nThe Spanish Constitution of 1931 was approved by the Constituent Assembly on 9 December 1931. It was the constitution of the Second Spanish Republic (founded 14 April 1931) and was in force until 1 April 1939. This was the second period of Spanish history in which both head of state and head of government were democratically elected.\n\nA constitutional draft prepared by a commission under a reformist Catholic lawyer Ángel Ossorio y Gallardo having been rejected, an amended draft was approved by the Constituent Assembly on 9 December 1931. It created a secular democratic system based on equal rights for all citizens, with provision for regional autonomy. It introduced female suffrage, civil marriage and divorce. It permitted the state to expropriate private property, with compensation, for reasons of broader social utility. It also established free, obligatory, secular education for all and dissolved the Jesuits.\n\nThe Republic \"was the culmination of a process of mass mobilisation and opposition to the old politics of notables.\" According to the historian Mary Vincent the Constitution envisaged \"a reforming regime with an explicit and self-conscious view of what modernising Spain should entail. A secular state operating according to the rule of law with an admittedly ill-defined sense of social justice would open the way for an educated body of citizens to enjoy 'European' prosperity and freedom.\" According to Frances Lannon however, the articles on property and religion, with their exaltation of state power and disregard for civil rights, \"virtually destroyed any prospect there had been for the development of a Catholic, conservative, Republicanism.\"\n\nThe constitution was criticized by the most religious sectors of the population as anticlerical or oppressive regarding the rights of Roman Catholics. . However, the Constitution broadly accorded civil liberties. Commentators have noted that the strain of church-state relations was a significant cause of the breakdown of the republic and of the Spanish Civil War.\n\nThe Second Republic began on 14 April 1931 after the departure from Spain of King Alfonso XIII, following local and municipal elections in which republican candidates won the majority of votes in urban areas. Though Alfonso did not formally abdicate, his departure from the country led to a provisional government under Niceto Alcalá Zamora, and a constituent Cortes drew up a new constitution.\n\nThe Second Republic in 1931 brought enormous hopes for Spanish workers and peasants, and in social terms some advances were made, especially for women. Prime Minister Manuel Azaña asserted that the Catholic Church was responsible in part for what many perceived as Spain's backwardness and advocated the elimination of special privileges for the Church. Azaña wanted the Second Spanish Republic to emulate the pre-1914 Third French Republic, make secular schooling free and compulsory, and construct a non-religious basis for national culture and citizenship.\n\nFollowing elections in June 1931 the new parliament approved an amended constitutional draft on 9 December 1931.\n\nThe constitution introduced female suffrage, civil marriage and divorce. It also established free, obligatory, secular education for all. However, some laws nationalized Roman Catholic Church properties and required the Roman Catholic Church to pay rent for the use of properties which it had previously owned. In addition, the government forbade public manifestations of Catholicism such as processions on religious feast days, dissolved the Jesuits and banned Catholic education by prohibiting the religious communities of nuns, priests and brothers from teaching even in private schools.\nThe constitution also made the right to property subject to the public good, such that it could be nationalized as long as the owner was compensated.\n\nThe constitution granted freedom of religion to all, including non-catholic worship in Spain.\n\nHead of State was the President of the Republic, who was elected by an Electoral College composed of members of legislative branch and elector citizens called compromisaries (\"compromisarios)\" elected by popular vote.\n\nLegislature was in charge of a unicameral assembly, the General Courts (\"Cortes Generales\"), composed by members elected by popular vote for 4 years term. Popular initiative of law could be made at request of 15 percent of the country citizens, with restrictions on the subjects to be presented.\n\nExecutive branch was exercised by a Prime Minister (\"Presidente del Gobierno\"), appointed by the President of the Republic and General Courts, and a cabinet of ministers.\n\nIt was established a Court of Constitutional Guarantees (\"Tribunal de Garantías Constitucionales\"), whose work was guarding the constitutionality of laws and settling disputes between state powers.\n\nIt established the territorial division in provinces, and the possibility that those that had common cultural characteristics could be united to obtain the territorial autonomy as unified region through an Autonomy Statute (\"Estatuto de Autonomía)\".\n\nAlthough the constitution generally accorded thorough civil liberties and representation, there was a notable exclusion regarding the privileges of the Catholic Church, which some regarded as crucial to prevent the forming of an expansive democratic majority.\n\nThe controversial articles 26 and 27 of the constitution strictly controlled Church property and prohibited religious orders from engaging in education. This was seen as explicitly hostile to Roman Catholicism, both by supporters of the established Church, but also by advocates of church/state separation. One such advocate of separation, José Ortega y Gasset, stated \"the article in which the Constitution legislates the actions of the Church seems highly improper to me.\" Pope Pius XI condemned the Spanish Government's deprivation of the privileges of Catholics in the encyclical Dilectissima Nobis (On Oppression Of The Church Of Spain ).\"\n\nIn October 1931 José María Gil-Robles the leading spokesman of the parliamentary right declared that the constitution was 'stillborn' - a 'dictatorial Constitution in the name of democracy.' Robles wanted to use mass meetings \"to give supporters of the right a sense of their own strength and, ominously, to accustom them 'to fight, when necessary, for the possession of the street.'\"\n\nThe conservative Catholic Republicans Alcalá-Zamora and Miguel Maura resigned from the government when the controversial articles 26 and 27 of the constitution, which strictly controlled Church property and prohibited religious orders from engaging in education were passed.\n\nFrances Lannon calls the constitution \"divisive\" in that the articles on property and religion, prioritizing state power, had a \"disregard for civil rights\" and ruined the prospect of the development of a Catholic, conservative, Republicanism. Likewise, Stanley Payne agrees that the constitution generally accorded a wide range of civil liberties and representation with the notable exception of the rights of Catholics, a circumstance which prevented the formation of an expansive democratic majority.\n\nSince the far left considered reform of these aspects of the constitution as totally unacceptable, commentators have opined that \"the Republic as a democratic constitutional regime was doomed from the outset\". Commentators have posited that such a \"hostile\" approach to the issues of church and state were a substantial cause of the breakdown of democracy and the onset of civil war. One legal commentator emphasized that \"the gravest mistake of the Constitution of 1931-Spain's last democratic Constitution prior to 1978-was its hostile attitude towards the Catholic Church.\"\n\nThe Spanish Constitution of 1931 attempted to secure religious liberty for religious organizations other than Roman Catholics, halting discrimination and persecution of Jews and Protestants. However, this freedom would be curbed by the Franco's dictatorial regime that granted the Roman Catholic Church the status of official religion of Spain and prohibited other public religious manifestations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "478980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=478980", "title": "Stephen Downing case", "text": "Stephen Downing case\n\nThe Stephen Downing case involved the conviction and imprisonment in 1974 of a 17-year-old council worker, Stephen Downing, for the murder of a 32-year-old legal secretary, Wendy Sewell, in the town of Bakewell in the Peak District in Derbyshire, central England. \n\nFollowing a campaign by a local newspaper, his conviction was overturned in 2002, after Downing had served 27 years in prison. The case is thought to be the longest miscarriage of justice in British legal history, and attracted worldwide media attention.\n\nWendy Sewell was attacked, in Bakewell Cemetery, at lunchtime on 12 September 1973. A witness, Charles Carman, saw her enter the cemetery at about 12:50 pm. She was beaten around the head with the handle of a pickaxe and sexually assaulted, with her trousers, pants, plimsolls and parts of her bra removed. She died from her injuries in Chesterfield Royal Hospital two days later.\n\nThe 17-year-old cemetery groundskeeper, Stephen Downing, was the primary suspect. He told police that he had found Sewell lying on the ground, covered in blood, and that her blood got on his clothes because she shook her head. Despite having learning difficulties and a reading age of 11, he was arrested, questioned for nine hours without a solicitor present, and signed a confession.\n\nDowning's trial took place between 13 and 15 February 1974 at the Crown Court at Nottingham before Mr Justice Nield and a jury where he pleaded not guilty. A forensic scientist Norman Lee, gave evidence that the blood found on the accused could only have been present if he had been responsible for the assault. Lee described this evidence as \"a textbook example ... which might be expected on the clothing of the assailant\". No full transcript of the trial exists, but it is known that, in summing up, the judge drew attention to Downing’s admission during the trial of having indecently assaulted Sewell as she lay injured in the cemetery (he later denied that he made those admissions during the trial).\n\nBy a unanimous verdict, the jury found Downing guilty of murder, and he was sentenced to be indefinitely detained at Her Majesty's pleasure, with a stipulation that he should serve a minimum of ten years.\n\nCaught in an innocent prisoner's dilemma, Downing was unable to be paroled, as he did not admit to the crime. He was classified as \"In Denial of Murder\" and therefore ineligible for parole under English law.\n\nA witness was found who said she saw Downing leaving the cemetery, and at that time she also saw Wendy Sewell alive and unharmed. Downing applied for leave to appeal on the grounds he had a new witness.\n\nOn 25 October 1974, the Court of Appeal heard the grounds for appeal and reached the conclusion that the witness' evidence of seeing Wendy Sewell walking towards the back of the consecrated chapel was unreliable due to some fully grown trees obstructing her line of sight. The court felt that her evidence was not credible and secure enough to allow an appeal against the conviction.\n\nDuring the Derbyshire Police's re-investigation in 2002, this witness was re-interviewed and accompanied back to the cemetery location. She reaffirmed that the fully grown trees, which have since been felled, would have obstructed her line of sight. She also revealed the knowledge that she is, and was at the time, short sighted. The witness, who was 15 years old at the time of the murder, was unable to give an adequate reason for why she came forward with her original evidence.\n\nStephen Downing continued to deny committing the murder so his family attempted to get support for another retrial. In 1994, they wrote to the local newspaper, the \"Matlock Mercury\". The editor, Don Hale, took up the case and along with Downing's family ran a campaign.\n\nAs a result of this campaign along with Downing's continual protestations of innocence, the case was referred to the Criminal Cases Review Commission in 1997.\n\nDowning was released on appeal in 2001 after 27 years in prison. The following year, 2002, the Court of Appeal overturned Downing's conviction, finding it to be unsafe.\n\nThe case is thought to be the longest miscarriage of justice in British legal history, and attracted worldwide media attention.\n\nDuring the second appeal, held on 15 January 2002, the Court of Appeal accepted many of the reasons that were put forward by Hale and others for believing the conviction was unsafe. Julian Bevan, counsel for the Crown, accepted two arguments put forward by the defence. The first was that Downing's confession should not have been allowed to go before a jury. The confession was unsafe because Downing had been questioned for eight hours, during which the police shook him and pulled his hair to keep him awake; because he wasn't formally cautioned that what he said may be used in evidence against him; and because he wasn't given a solicitor. The Crown also agreed with the defence argument that more recent knowledge of blood-splattering patterns meant the prosecution's claim that the blood could only have been found on the clothes of the attacker was questionable.\n\nThe Rt Hon. Lord Justice Pill said that the Court of Appeal did not have to consider whether Downing had proved that he was innocent, but whether the original conviction was fair – \"The question for [the Court of Appeal’s] consideration is whether the conviction is safe and not whether the accused is guilty\". What the defence had proved was that there was reasonable doubt about the \"reliability of the confessions made in 1973\". His Lordship said: \"The court cannot be sure the confessions are reliable. It follows that the conviction is unsafe. The conviction is quashed.\"\n\nFollowing the Court of Appeal overturning Stephen Downing's conviction, the Derbyshire Police reinvestigated the murder under the name Operation Noble. During 2002, they interviewed 1,600 witnesses, at an estimated cost of £500,000 – though Downing himself refused to be reinterviewed. A year after the conviction was overturned, in February 2003, Derbyshire police revealed the findings of their reinvestigation of the murder. There were 22 other possible suspects, many of whom had been suggested by Don Hale during his campaign, and in his book \"Town Without Pity\". All were cleared of any possibility of having murdered Wendy Sewell. \n\nAfter failing to link any other person with the murder, and unable to eliminate Downing as the suspect, they declared the case closed. Even though Downing remained the prime suspect, under the \"double jeopardy\" rule the police did not submit the results of their inquiries to the Crown Prosecution Service, as he cannot be re-arrested and charged with the same crime without new evidence.\n\nIn January 2014, a former detective investigating 16 unsolved murders and possible links to the Yorkshire Ripper, obtained a pathology report which he claimed was buried by the police in 1973 within a few days of the attack on Wendy Sewell. He said it would have completely contradicted the so-called confession, exonerated Downing and prevented a miscarriage of justice. This new evidence sparked a new submission to the Home Secretary claiming that Derbyshire Police's investigations in 1973 had been potentially biased and unsatisfactory. \n\nThe report called on Derbyshire Police to apologise and explain their actions which had been highlighted at appeal in 2002 as 'substantially and significantly breaching the judges' rules.' They were asked to explain this recent finding and confirm why crucial evidence had been deliberately kept from the defence. Campaigning editor, Don Hale had been told by police that all the evidence had been \"burnt, lost and destroyed\". When the murder weapon, a pickaxe handle was found to be on display at Derby Museum it was subjected to a modern forensic examination. Mr Downing's fingerprints were not found although there was a bloody palm print from an as yet unidentified person.\n\nStephen Downing was born in 1956 . He worked for the local council as a gardener in the Bakewell cemetery where Wendy Sewell was murdered. He was 17 years old, with a reading age of an 11-year-old, when he was tried and found guilty of the murder of Sewell. He served 27 years in jail. He had to change prison eight times due to being assaulted by fellow prisoners as a sex offender. He was released from Littlehey Prison in Cambridgeshire in 2001.\n\nDowning's release was reported in the BBC as being hailed as 'a triumph for campaigning journalism... and an end to one of the worst miscarriages of justice in English legal history.' Downing was reported as receiving celebrity treatment upon his release. He initially found employment as a trainee chef in a Bakewell restaurant, using the training he had been given whilst in prison. He received compensation of £750,000 because he was not informed he was under arrest nor that he had the right to a solicitor. He received the money in two payments – an interim payment of £250,000 followed by a final payment of £500,000.\n\nThe case was featured in the 2004 BBC drama \"In Denial of Murder\" in which Jason Watkins played Stephen Downing and Caroline Catz played Wendy Sewell.\n\n"}
{"id": "9506151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9506151", "title": "Succession to the Throne Act 1937", "text": "Succession to the Throne Act 1937\n\nThe Succession to the Throne Act (1 Geo. VI, c.16) (the \"Act\") is the act of the Canadian parliament that ratified the Cabinet's consent to His Majesty's Declaration of Abdication Act 1936, an act of the United Kingdom parliament that allowed Edward VIII to abdicate as king of Canada, the United Kingdom, and the other Dominions and pass the throne to George VI. However, it was the Canadian government's request and consent, and not the \"Succession to the Throne Act\", that gave the British Act of Parliament effect in and made it part of the law of Canada, as per section 4 of the Statute of Westminster 1931, which allowed the British parliament to legislate for the Dominions only with their agreement.\n\nEdward VIII abdicated in order to marry Wallis Simpson after facing opposition from the governments of the United Kingdom and the Dominions, including Canada. Although the King had signed instruments of abdication on December 10, sending notice of this by cable (and later one of the instruments by mail, both signed by him) to the Governor General of Canada (the Lord Tweedsmuir), he was still king until Royal Assent was granted to \"His Majesty's Declaration of Abdication Act 1936\", which was passed through the British Houses of Parliament in one day, with no amendments. The Canadian government (along with those of Australia, South Africa, and New Zealand) requested and gave its consent, via Order in Council, to the act becoming law in Canada, under the terms of the Statute of Westminster 1931, which stipulated that the British parliament could pass legislation for any Dominion only at the request and with the approval of that Dominion's government. The King then issued an Order in his British Council to authorize the inclusion of the Dominions in the \"Abdication Act\". The South African parliament later passed its own law, \"His Majesty King Edward the Eighth's Abdication Act, 1937\", recognizing George VI's accession as king of South Africa as being on December 10, 1936, while the legislature of the Irish Free State also passed a backdated law, the \"External Relations Act\", on December 12, 1936.\n\nThe \"Act\" ratified the changes to the rules of succession in Canada and assured consistency with the changes in the rules then in place in the United Kingdom and the other Dominions. The \"Act\" was not legally required at the time, as the Canadian government's request and consent to \"His Majesty's Declaration of Abdication Act 1936\" had already made it part of Canada's law and the Governor General had already proclaimed the Duke of York as King George VI. (Indeed, Royal Assent to the bill was granted in the name of George VI.) However, constitutional experts noted that \"Whether necessary or not, it was clearly designed to demonstrate Canada's equality with Britain in the British Commonwealth and to display the Canadian aspect of the monarchy.\" Under present Canadian law, the Canadian government cannot request and consent to any British act becoming part of Canadian law, as the \"Canada Act, 1982\", ended all remaining authority of the UK parliament to legislate for Canada, both by the \"Act\"'s own terms and through enactment of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\" (whose schedule repealed section 4 of the Statute of Westminster 1931 in Canada).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31941424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31941424", "title": "Suicide bidding", "text": "Suicide bidding\n\nSuicide bidding is a response to a tendering exercise in which a potential supplier, anxious to win business, submits a proposal to carry out the work for less than it will cost.\n\nThe motive for such bidding is to keep the company's skilled labour employed, even if the project only breaks even or makes a loss.\n\nThis can result in poor quality work, poor service and debates over loopholes in contract wording in attempts to charge clients extra, or even insolvency on the part of the contractor.\n\nThe practice has particularly been noted in construction bidding. A 2010 survey by the Chartered Institute of Building found that 82% of respondents\nbelieve that “suicide bidding” exists within the industry. It was considered to have contributed to the financial collapse of British firms Connaught plc and Rok plc in 2010.\n\nThe Civil Engineering Contractors Association acknowledged that the practice had become \"rife\" in the desperate competition for work during the late-2000s recession, but blamed the public sector procurement process for focussing on the lowest price rather than best value.\n\nSome commissioning bodies, such as Crossrail, openly discourage the practice. In 2011, some housing associations began including specific terms in tenders to protect them from legal challenge in the event of refusing to award the contract according to the lowest tender.\n\n"}
{"id": "4602425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4602425", "title": "Superior Electoral Court", "text": "Superior Electoral Court\n\nThe Superior Electoral Court (, TSE) is the highest body of the Brazilian Electoral Justice, which also comprises one Regional Electoral Court (, TRE) in each of the 26 states and the Federal District of the country, as determined by Article 118 of the Constitution of Brazil.\n\nThe Brazilian Electoral Code of 1932 established the Electoral Justice in Brazil, replacing the political system conducted by the Legislative branch over the electoral proceedings. The new judicial system transferred control over such proceedings to the Judiciary. In the present, duties of the Electoral Justice are regulated by a posterior Electoral Code, approved in 1965 (Law No. 4.737/65), which revoked the 1932 code, but kept the judicial control over the electoral proceedings. \n\nThe Superior Electoral Court is the highest judicial body of the Brazilian Electoral Justice as per Article 121, §3 of the Brazilian Constitution of 1988, which sets that the decisions of the Superior Electoral Court are unappealable, except those contrary to the Constitution, or that deny habeas corpus or writs of mandamus. Therefore, in such exceptions, the Supreme Federal Court judges appeals filed against the Superior Electoral Court’s rulings. \n\nThe composition of the court is ruled by Article 119 of the Constitution of Brazil, which sets that the court shall be composed by seven members. Three of them shall be elected by secret vote from among the Justices of the Supreme Federal Court and two other judges shall be elected by secret vote from among the Justices of the Superior Court of Justice. The remaining two shall be appointed by the President of Brazil from among six lawyers of notable juridical knowledge and good moral reputation nominated by the Supreme Federal Court.\n\n"}
{"id": "1004661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1004661", "title": "Trade Marks Act 1994", "text": "Trade Marks Act 1994\n\nThe Trade Marks Act 1994 is the law governing trade marks within the United Kingdom and the Isle of Man. It implements EU Directive No. 89/104/EEC (The Trade Marks Directive) which forms the framework for the trade mark laws of all EU member states, and replaced an earlier law, the Trade Marks Act 1938. Although the UK's trade mark regime covers the Isle of Man, it does not extend to the Channel Islands which have their own trade mark registers.\n\nThe Act provides both civil and criminal law sanctions for the misuse of registered trade marks. \nSection 93 of the Act makes enforcement of the criminal sanctions the duty of the local Weights and Measures Authority (usually the Trading Standards department) and imports enforcement powers from the Trade Descriptions Act. \n\nSimilar criminal law provisions are written into the related Copyright Designs and Patents Act.\n\nThe UK Patent Office, which deals with trade mark registration, has recently implemented a national intelligence database, TellPat, which is available to enforcement officers.\n\nThe introduction of new primary legislation for trade marks in 1994 enabled the government to make a number of changes beyond merely implementing the EU Directive. These include:\n\n\nThe Act also provides for a defence of \"honest\" use of a natural name.\n\n"}
{"id": "10392089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10392089", "title": "Youngberg v. Romeo", "text": "Youngberg v. Romeo\n\nYoungberg v. Romeo, 457 U.S. 307 (1982), was a landmark United States Supreme Court case regarding the rights of the involuntarily committed and those with intellectual disabilities. Nicholas Romeo had an intellectual disability with an infant level IQ and was committed to a Pennsylvania state hospital. He was restrained for many hours of the day and repeatedly injured. The Supreme Court agreed with the Third Circuit Court of Appeals that involuntarily committed residents had the right to reasonably safe confinement conditions, no unreasonable body restraints and the habilitation they reasonably require. \n\nThe defendants, who were management personnel at Pennhurst State School, an old state facility to which Romeo’s mother had him committed when she could no longer care for him, did not dispute Romeo’s right to care, habilitation, training and security. The critical issue in the case was the standard of care and whether the defendants had violated that standard, and therefore, Romeo’s federally protected civil rights. The federal courts had not yet addressed this question in the context of intellectual disability. The trial court therefore looked to a then-recent Supreme Court decision holding that deliberate indifference to serious medical needs of prisoners constitutes “unnecessary and wanton infliction of pain” in violation of the 8th Amendment. The jury found for the defendants. The 3rd Circuit reversed and ordered a new trial, explaining that the standard of care should have been based on the 14th rather than the 8th Amendment and the Supreme Court agreed. However, the high court rejected the circuit court’s articulation of the standard of care. \n\nThe syllabus summarizes the court's holding:\n“Respondent [Romeo] has constitutionally protected liberty interests under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to reasonably safe conditions of confinement, freedom from unreasonable bodily restraints, and such minimally adequate training as reasonably may be required by these interests. Whether [his] constitutional rights have been violated must be determined by balancing these liberty interests against the relevant state interests. The proper standard for determining whether the State has adequately protected such rights is whether professional judgment, in fact, was exercised. And in determining what is ‘reasonable,’ courts must show deference to the judgment exercised by a qualified professional, whose decision is presumptively valid.” \nShortly after it was remanded to the trial court the case was settled in conjunction with a state decision to close Pennhurst in 1986, and close all other such institutions. \n\n\n\n"}
