{"id": "16133973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16133973", "title": "14–19 Diploma", "text": "14–19 Diploma\n\nThe Diploma was a composite qualification in England launched in September 2008. Its development was announced in the \"14–19 Education and Skills\" White Paper of March 2005. It was available to learners between the ages of 14 and 19, crossing the divide between general education and vocational education. It was closed by the Department for Education in August 2013, and is no longer offered to students.\n\nDiplomas were available in a range of 14 industry/employment sectors. These were known as lines of learning (rather than subjects). These include Engineering, Creative and Media and Travel and Tourism. Diplomas were not intended as preparation for direct entry into a profession, but as a general education as well as an introduction to an industry sector from which a student might progress, either through further study in full-time education, or training.\n\nAll 14 lines of learning were available at levels 1, 2 and 3 of the National Qualifications Framework. At level 1, the Diploma was known as a Foundation Diploma and was roughly equivalent in terms of challenge and volume of study to 5 GCSE qualifications at grades D - G. At level 2, the Diploma is known as a Higher Diploma which is comparable in terms of challenge and volume of study to 7 A* - C grades at GCSE. At level 3, two sizes of Diploma were available. The Advanced Diploma was comparable in challenge and volume of study to 3.5 A-levels, whereas the Progression Diploma, involved a smaller volume of study, approximated to 2.5 A-levels.\n\nMost Diplomas had three main components: principal learning, generic learning and additional and specialist learning. Principal learning was a single qualification, based on the chosen line of learning. This qualification made up the greatest proportion of the Diploma. Generic learning included a number of sub-components: functional skills qualifications in English, Mathematics and ICT; a project qualification; a minimum of 10 days work experience and achievement of six personal, learning and thinking skills. The additional and specialist learning component permitted the student to choose to include one or more qualifications in their Diploma. These qualifications may, but do not have to, relate to the line of learning. The Progression Diploma did not include the additional and specialist learning component.\n\nAlthough UCAS tariff points were agreed for the advanced diplomas, many universities didn't accept the qualification for entry to further study. This led to the ultimate demise of the qualification.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51942674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51942674", "title": "2016 California Proposition 58", "text": "2016 California Proposition 58\n\nProposition 58 is a California ballot proposition that passed on the November 8, 2016 ballot. Proposition 58 repealed bilingual education restrictions enacted by Proposition 227 in 1998.\n\nProposition 58 passed by a wide margin.\n\nIt preserves the requirement that public schools ensure students obtain an English language proficiency, require school districts to solicit parent/community input in developing language acquisition programs, require instruction to ensure English acquisition as rapidly and effectively as possible, and authorize school districts to establish dual–language immersion programs for both native and non–native English speakers.\n\nAfter the passage of Proposition 227 in 1998, students were required to be taught in an English-only environment, where the student was taught English by a teacher who only speaks English. Proposition 227 also required limited English proficient students who were in separate classes to be put into regular classes, ended bilingual programs, and required students to be taught in an English-only environment. \n\nUnder Proposition 58, the public school systems will have the right to choose the way they see as appropriate for their students to learn English more swiftly. Students will now have the option to be taught in an English-only environment, or a bilingual environment, where a person of the student's native language teaches them English. This also allows English speaking students to learn in another language.\n\nA California Department of Education spokesperson anticipated a shortage of bilingual teachers under Proposition 58. The number of bilingual credentials had fallen after Proposition 227's passage.\n\n"}
{"id": "155660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=155660", "title": "Allotment (gardening)", "text": "Allotment (gardening)\n\nAn allotment garden (British English), often called simply an allotment, or a “community garden” (North America), is a plot of land made available for individual, non-commercial gardening or growing food plants. Such plots are formed by subdividing a piece of land into a few or up to several hundred land parcels that are assigned to individuals or families. Such parcels are cultivated individually, contrary to other community garden types where the entire area is tended collectively by a group of people. In countries that do not use the term “allotment (garden)”, a “community garden” may refer to individual small garden plots as well as to a single, large piece of land gardened collectively by a group of people. The term “victory garden” is also still sometimes used, especially when a community garden dates back to the First or Second World War.\n\nThe individual size of a parcel typically suits the needs of a family, and often the plots include a shed for tools and shelter, and sometimes a hut for seasonal or weekend accommodation. The individual gardeners are usually organised in an allotment association, which leases or is granted the land from an owner who may be a public, private or ecclesiastical entity, and who usually stipulates that it be only used for gardening (i.e., growing vegetables, fruits and flowers), but not for permanent residential purposes (this is usually also required by zoning laws). The gardeners have to pay a small membership fee to the association, and have to abide by the corresponding constitution and by-laws. However, the membership entitles them to certain democratic rights.\n\nThe Luxembourg-based \"Office International du Coin de Terre et des Jardins Familiaux\", representing three million European allotment gardeners since 1926, describes the socio-cultural and economic functions of allotment gardens as offering an improved quality of life, an enjoyable and profitable hobby, relaxation, and contact with nature. For children, gardens offer places to play and to learn about nature, while for the unemployed, they offer a feeling of doing something useful as well as low-cost food. For the elderly and disabled, gardens offer an opportunity to meet people, to share in activity with like-minded people, and to experience activities like planting and harvesting.\n\nThe first garden in Purkersdorf, 1905.\n\nIn Vancouver, Toronto, Calgary, Montreal, Ottawa, these are called community gardens.\n\nAllotment gardening used to be widely popular in the former Czechoslovakia under the communist regime. It gave people from suburban prefab apartment blocks - called \"paneláky\" in Czech - a chance to escape from city chaos, pollution, and concrete architecture. Holiday houses and gardens served also as the only permitted form of investment of savings for common middle-class citizens.\n\nIn 1778 land was laid out outside the fortifications of the town of Fredericia for allotment gardens and according to an 1828 circular from the royal chancellery allotment gardens were established in several towns.\n\nPrivate initiative formed the first Danish allotment association in Aalborg in 1884 and in Copenhagen an association named \"Arbejdernes Værn\" (lit. “The Worker’s Protection”) founded the first allotment gardens of the Danish Capital in 1891. Since then allotment gardens have spread to most Danish towns.\n\nIn 1904 there were about 20,000 allotment gardens in Denmark. 6,000 of them were in Copenhagen. During the interwar years the number of allotment gardens grew rapidly. In 2001 the number of allotment gardens was estimated to be about 62,120.\n\nIn 1908, twenty allotment associations in Copenhagen formed the Allotment Garden Union which in 1914 was expanded to cover all of Denmark. The Allotment Garden Federation was founded to negotiate more favourable deals with the state and the municipalities from which the allotments associations rented the land. Today the federation represents roughly 400 allotment associations in 75 municipalities.\n\nThe Danish tradition for allotment gardens later spread to the other Nordic countries: first Sweden, then Norway and Finland.\n\nToday most allotment gardens are on land owned by the municipality which rents the land to an allotment association. The association in turn gives each member a plot of land. To preserve allotment gardens as something that is available for all kinds of people, the membership charge is set significantly below what a market price would be. Since allotments are often placed on attractive plots of land, this has led to huge waiting lists for membership in many allotment associations.\n\nAlthough the main purpose of the allotment is gardening, most allotment gardens have a pavilion built in them. These pavilions can range in size from an old rebuilt railway car to a small summer house. Many people grow so fond of their allotment gardens that they live there the entire summer. In most cases, however, members are not allowed to live there the entire year.\n\nThe Federation of Finnish Allotment Gardens is a non-profit organization that supports allotment gardeners and connects them to allotments and each other. The first allotment garden was established 1916 in Tampere, and today there are about 30 allotment associations all around Finland made up of roughly 3700 allotmenteers.\n\nIn many localities in France, when allotments exist, they are sited in marginal zones (edges of motorways, railways, industrial parks…) unsuitable for other uses. These places suffer from poor access, may not be safe, and often lack a water supply, and are not protected from real estate transactions.\n\nThe history of the allotment gardens in Germany is closely connected with the period of industrialization and urbanization in Europe during the 19th century when a large number of people migrated from the rural areas to the cities to find employment and a better life. Very often, these families were living under extremely poor conditions suffering from inappropriate housing, malnutrition and other forms of social neglect. To improve their overall situation and to allow them to grow their own food, the city administrations, the churches or their employers provided open spaces for garden purposes. These were initially called the \"gardens of the poor\".\n\nThe idea of organised allotment gardening reached a first peak after 1864, when the so-called \"Schreber Movement\" started in the city of Leipzig in Saxony. A public initiative decided to lease areas within the city, with the purpose to make it possible for children to play in a healthy environment, and in harmony with nature. Later on, these areas included actual gardens for children, but soon adults tended towards taking over and cultivating these gardens. This kind of gardening also became popular in other European countries, esp. Germanic countries such as Austria (and its dependencies), the Netherlands and Switzerland. In German-speaking countries, allotment gardens are accordingly generally known as \"Schrebergärten\" (singular: \"Schrebergarten\"), sometimes literally translated as \"Schreber gardens\". Another common term is \"Kleingärten\" (\"small gardens\", singular: \"Kleingarten\").\n\nThe aspect of food security provided by allotment gardens became particularly evident during World Wars I and II. The socio-economic situation was very miserable, particularly as regards the nutritional status of urban residents. Many cities were isolated from their rural hinterlands and agricultural products did not reach the city markets anymore or were sold at very high prices at the black markets. Consequently, food production within the city, especially fruit and vegetable production in home gardens and allotment gardens, became essential for survival. The importance of allotment gardens for food security was so obvious that in 1919, one year after the end of World War I, the first legislation for allotment gardening in Germany was passed. The so-called \"Small Garden and Small-Rent Land Law\", provided security in land tenure and fixed leasing fees. In 1983, this law was amended by the . Today, there are still about 1.4 million allotment gardens in Germany covering an area of . In Berlin alone there are 833 allotment garden complexes.\n\n Malta introduced its first allotment gardens in April, 2011. The objective of the scheme, which was called “Midd Idejk fil-Biedja” (Try Your Hand at Farming), was to encourage people, especially the young and those living in urban areas, to take up organic farming. The scheme had over 50 allotment plots located at Għammieri, Malta. All plots were fully irrigated and those who participated in the scheme received continual support and training. Malta’s allotment gardens were terminated a few months after the Labour Party was elected to government.\n\nThe first allotment gardens in the Netherlands were founded in 1838. In the 19th century, cities started allotment gardens for working-class families. Around the first world war, the users of the gardens started demanding that the gardens would be governed by the members. In 1928 the allotment garden societies founded the national level \"het Algemeen Verbond van Volkstuindersverenigingen in Nederland (AVVN).\" Until the 1950s, the gardens were primarily used for vegetable production, since then there has been a shift to recreational use. Depending on the city and society, small sheds, greenhouses or small garden houses are allowed. In some cases, permanent habitation is allowed during summertime. The Netherlands has 240,000 allotments.\n\nThere are 13 allotment gardens in Norway, with around 2000 allotments. The oldest, Etterstad Kolonihager, dates to 1908. The largest, Solvang Kolonihager, has around 600 allotments and is in Oslo, close to the woods and Sognsvann lake. The allotment gardens are quite popular, and there can be a waiting list of 10 and in some cases even 20 years.\n\nIn 2003, the first allotment garden of the Philippines was established in Cagayan de Oro City, Northern Mindanao as part of a European Union funded project. Meanwhile, with the assistance of the German Embassy in Manila and several private donors from Germany, this number has grown to five self-sustaining gardens located in different urban areas of the city, enabling a total of 55 urban poor families the legal access to land for food production. Further four allotment gardens, two of them within the premises of public elementary schools are presently being set up for additional 36 families using the asset-based community development approach. Some of the gardeners belong to the poorest in the city, the garbage pickers of the city’s landfill site. Aside from different vegetables, the gardeners grow also herbs and tropical fruits. In some gardens, small animals are kept and fish ponds are maintained to avail the gardeners of additional protein sources for the daily dietary needs. Each allotment garden has a compost heap where biodegradable wastes from the garden as well as from the neighboring households are converted into organic fertilizer, thus contributing to the integrated solid waste management program of the city. Further, all gardens are equipped with so-called urine-diverting ecological sanitation toilets similar to practices in Danish allotment gardens described by Bregnhøj et al. (2003).\n\nIn Poland, allotment gardens date back to 1897 when Doctor Jan Jalkowski founded the \"Sun Baths\" (Polish: \"Kąpiele słoneczne\") community gardens and public health area in Grudziądz. After WWII, allotment gardens were popular among city dwellers living in suburban apartment blocks. Under current law they are called \"family allotments\". The Polish Association of Allotment Gardeners represents the interest of owners in legal and tax issues. The Association is being criticized and there exists a number of legal issues. \n\nAllotment gardens in Portugal are often precarious, as land is spontaneously divided into strips as cities grow.\n\nThe first allotments (\"dachas\") in Russia began to appear during the reign of Peter the Great. Initially they were small estates in the country, which were given to loyal vassals by the Tsar. In archaic Russian, the word \"dacha\" means \"something given\".\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment, Russian aristocracy used their allotments for social and cultural gatherings, which were usually accompanied by masquerade balls and fireworks displays. The Industrial Revolution brought about a rapid growth in the urban population, and urban residents increasingly desired to escape the heavily polluted cities, at least temporarily. By the end of the 19th century, the allotment became a favorite summer retreat for the upper and middle classes of Russian society.\n\nAfter the Bolshevik revolution of 1917, most dachas were nationalized. Some were converted into vacation homes for the working class, while others, usually of better quality, were distributed among the prominent functionaries of the Communist Party and the newly emerged cultural and scientific elite. All but a few allotments remained the property of the state and the right to use them was usually revoked when a dacha occupant was dismissed or fell out of favor with the rulers of the state. Joseph Stalin's favourite Dacha was in Gagra, Abkhazia. The construction of new dachas was restricted until the late 1940s and required the special approval of the Communist Party leadership.\n\nThe period after World War II saw a moderate growth in dacha development. Since there was no actual law banning the construction of dachas, squatters began occupying unused plots of land near cities and towns, some building sheds, huts, and more prominent dwellings that served as dachas. This practice of squatting was spurred by the desire of urban dwellers, all living in multi-story apartment buildings, to spend some time close to nature, and also to grow their own fruits and vegetables. The latter was caused by the failure of the centrally planned Soviet agricultural program to supply enough fresh produce. As time passed, the number of squatters grew geometrically and the government had no choice but to officially recognize their right to amateur farming. The 1955 legislation introduced a new type of legal entity into the Soviet juridical system, a so-called \"gardeners' partnership\" (; not to be confused with community garden). The gardeners' partnerships received the right to permanent use of land exclusively for agricultural purposes and permission to connect to public electrical and water supply networks. In 1958, yet another form of organization was introduced, a \"cooperative for dacha construction (DSK)\" (), which recognized the right of an individual to build a small house on the land leased from the government.\n\nThe 1980s saw the peak of the dacha boom, with virtually every affluent family in the country having a dacha of their own or spending weekends and holidays at friends' dachas. Often ill-equipped and without indoor plumbing, dachas were nevertheless the ultimate solution for millions of Russian working-class families to having an inexpensive summer retreat. Having a piece of land also offered an opportunity for city dwellers to indulge themselves in growing their own fruits and vegetables. To this day, May Day holidays remain a feature of Russian life allowing urban residents a long weekend to plant seeds and tend fruit trees as the ground defrosts from the long Russian winter. Since there are no other national holidays that are long enough for planting, many employers give their staff an extra day off specifically for that purpose.\n\nThe collapse of communism in the Soviet Union saw the return to private land ownership. Most dachas have since been privatized, and Russia is now the nation with the largest number of owners of second homes. The growth of living standards in recent years allowed many dacha owners to spend their discretionary income on improvements. Thus, many recently built dachas are fully equipped houses suitable for use as permanent residences. The market-oriented economy transformed the dacha into an asset, which generally reflects the prosperity of its owner and can be freely traded in the real estate market.\n\nDue to the rapid increase in urbanization in Russia, many village houses are currently being sold to be used as allotments. Many Russian villages now have dachniki as temporary residents. Some villages have been fully transformed into dacha settlements, while some older dacha settlements often look like more permanent lodgings. The advantages of purchasing a dacha in a village usually are: lower costs, greater land area, and larger distances between houses. The disadvantages may include: lower-quality utilities, less security, and typically a farther distance to travel.\n\nIn Landskrona, around the area of the Citadel, the first allotment gardens of Sweden were made available for lease in the 1860-ies, later followed by those in Malmö in 1895, and Stockholm in 1904. The local authorities were inspired by Anna Lindhagen, a social-democratic leader and a woman in the upper ranks of society, who visited allotment gardens in Copenhagen and was delighted by them. In her first book on the topic devoted to the usefulness of allotment gardens she wrote:For the family, the plot of land is a uniting bond, where all family members can meet in shared work and leisure. The family father, tired with the cramped space at home, may rejoice in taking care of his family in the open air, and feel responsible if the little plot of earth bestows a very special interest upon life.Anna Lindhagen is said to have met Lenin when he passed through Stockholm from the exile in Switzerland on their return trip to Russia after the February Revolution in 1917. She invited him to the allotment gardens of \"Barnängen\" to show all its benefits. However, she did not win his approval. Lenin was totally unresponsive to this kind of activity. To poke in the soil was to prepare the ground for political laziness in the class struggle. The workers should not be occupied with gardening, they should rather devote themselves to the proletarian revolution.\n\nThe Swedish Federation of Leisure Gardening was founded in 1921 and represents today more than 26,000 allotment and leisure gardeners. The members are organised in about 275 local societies all over Sweden. The land is usually rented from the local authorities.\n\nA 1732 engraving of Birmingham, England shows the town encircled by allotments, some of which still exist to this day. The accolade for the oldest allotment site is reserved for Great Somerford Free Gardens in the Wiltshire village of Great Somerford. These were created in 1809 following a letter to King George III from Rev Stephen Demainbray (a chaplain to the king) in which he asked the king to spare, in perpetuity, six acres from the Inclosure Acts for the benefit of the poor of his parish.\n\nFollowing these Inclosure Acts and the Commons Act 1876, the land available for personal cultivation by the poor was greatly diminished. To fulfill the need for land, allotment legislation was enacted. The law was first fully codified in the Small Holdings and Allotments Act 1908, then modified by the Allotments Act 1922 and subsequent Allotments Acts up until 1950.\n\nUnder the Acts, a local authority is required to maintain an \"adequate provision\" of land, usually a large allotment field which can then be subdivided into allotment gardens for individual residents at a low rent. Allotment sizes are often quoted in square rods, although the use of the rod has been illegal for trade purposes since 1965. The rent is set at what a person \"may reasonably be expected to pay\" (1950); in 1997 the average rent for a ten square rods (250 m) plot was £22 a year. In February 2012 the UK's first Green-controlled council, Brighton and Hove, caused controversy when they stated their intention to raise the rent for a standard 250 m plot to £110 per year, with many people suggesting that this was contrary to the environmental agenda on which they were elected. Each plot cannot exceed forty square rods (1000 m) and must be used for the production of fruit or vegetables for consumption by the plot-holder and their family (1922), or of flowers for use by the plot-holder and their family. The exact size and quality of the plots is not defined. The council has a duty to provide sufficient allotments to meet demand. The total income from allotments was £2.61 million and total expenditure was £8.44 million in 1997.\n\nThe total number of plots has varied greatly over time. In the 19th and early 20th century, the allotment system supplied much of the fresh vegetables eaten by the poor. In 1873 there were 244,268 plots and by 1918 there were around 1,500,000 plots. While numbers fell in the 1920s and 1930s, following an increase to 1,400,000 during World War II there were still around 1,117,000 plots in 1948. This number has been in decline since then, falling to 600,000 by the late 1960s and 300,000 by 2009. The Thorpe Inquiry of 1969 investigated the decline and put the causes as the decline in available land, increasing prosperity and the growth of other leisure activities.\n\nIncreased interest in \"green\" issues from the 1970s revived interest in allotment gardening, whilst the National Society of Allotment and Leisure Gardeners (NSALG), and the Scottish Allotments and Gardens Society (SAGS) in Scotland, continued to campaign on behalf of allotment users. However, the rate of decline was only slowed, falling from 530,000 plots in 1970 to 497,000 in 1977, although there was a substantial waiting list. By 1980 the surge in interest was over, and by 1997 the number of plots had fallen to around 265,000, with waiting lists of 13,000 and 44,000 vacant plots. In 2008 \"The Guardian\" reported that 330,000 people held an allotment, whilst 100,000 were on waiting lists.\n\nIn 2006, a report commissioned by the London Assembly identified that whilst demand was at an all-time high across the capital, the pressure caused by high-density building was further decreasing the amount of allotment land. The issue was given further publicity when \"The Guardian\" newspaper reported on the community campaign against the potential impact of the development for the 2012 Summer Olympics on the future of the century-old Manor Garden Allotments, Hackney Wick. In March 2008, Geoff Stokes, secretary of the NSALG, claimed that councils are failing in their duty to provide allotments. \"[T]hey sold off land when demand was not so high. This will go on because developers are now building houses with much smaller gardens.\" The Local Government Association has issued guidance asking councils to consider requiring developers to set land aside to make up for the shortfalls in allotment plots.\n\nAgainst the falling trend of land set aside for allotments is an increasing awareness of the need for cities to counter issues of food security and climate change through greater self-sufficiency. This drive to expand allotments is also a response to food price inflation, a desire to reduce food miles and surplus provision of land in post-industrial towns and cities in the developed world. Some of these themes were taken up in a recent urban agriculture project in Middlesbrough in the Tees Valley.\n\nA growing number of \"community gardens\" have been founded in the United States. Many of these began as \"victory gardens\" in World War II, and evolved into community gardens. Plots in these gardens are often rented out by the city, starting at plots of just . Due to the green movement many new gardens are being set up.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1642046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1642046", "title": "AlphaSmart", "text": "AlphaSmart\n\nThe AlphaSmart was a brand of portable, battery powered, word-processing keyboards manufactured by NEO Direct, Inc. (formerly Renaissance Learning, Inc, formerly AlphaSmart, Inc., formerly Intelligent Peripheral Devices, Inc.). The models were discontinued by the company in late September 2013, although it still offers support and software to existing users.\n\nThe AlphaSmart was a keyboarding device that enabled a person to work on the go, much like a laptop computer, but it was strictly for word processing, as it functioned essentially like a simple digital typewriter. The Dana (one of the last devices made by AlphaSmart, Inc.) was an exception, as this device also ran Palm OS applications. Since the AlphaSmart, Dana, and NEO were specialized for limited purposes, they were generally much cheaper than a standard laptop computer. All of these devices were meant to be plugged into an ADB, PS/2, or USB port for transferring the written text into a computer's word processing document for further editing (such as indentation and font preference) or printing if so desired.\n\nThe AlphaSmart saved every keystroke directly to the machine's RAM, which was maintained by a battery backup even when powered down. AlphaSmarts could transfer data either by a special program that communicated with the AlphaSmart or by the simpler method of transmitting the keystrokes of the written text as if it were the computer's keyboard. When not transferring text, the AlphaSmart could be used as a standard keyboard.\n\nAlphaSmarts were very popular in schools for their affordability and durability. Elementary schools and high schools used them; and they were particularly popular among special education departments for use by students with graphomotor challenges.\n\nThe machines were also popular among journalists and writers, who found them easy to carry and appreciated the full-size keyboard and long battery life.\n\nIntelligent Peripheral Devices, Inc. was founded in 1992 by two previous Apple Computer engineers, Ketan Kothari and Joe Barrus, with the mission to \"develop and market affordable, portable personal learning solutions for the classroom\" and to \"deliver affordable, lightweight, rugged portable computing devices that are expandable, easy to use and manage, and provide exceptional battery life.\" Shortly after its founding they were joined by Ketan's brother Manish. Later, they changed the name of the company to AlphaSmart, Inc.\n\nBarrus and Kothari also hold a US patent on a \"portable keyboard computer\", applied for in 1992 and granted in 1995.\n\nAlphaSmart, Inc. completed its initial public offering (IPO) on the NASDAQ on February 6, 2004 and started trading under the symbol ALSM. In June 2005, it was acquired by Renaissance Learning (NASDAQ: RLRN). The name changed again in the Spring of 2009, this time to NEO Direct, Inc. They went on to release the Neo2 and 2Know Responder hardware products.\n\nThe original AlphaSmart computer companion was shipped in August 1993, and worked only with Apple Macintosh and IIGS computers, plugging into the Apple Desktop Bus (ADB) port. This model provided customers with 16 \"pages\" of memory (32,000 bytes) for 8 separate files (2 pages per file), that were accessed by pressing the corresponding function key. The AlphaSmart took on the aesthetics of the computer it was intended to be partnered with — it had a boxy, durable beige plastic case like the IIGS and Macintoshes of that era. It had a four line LCD character display similar to what one would find on some appliances. Each character was displayed in its own LCD \"box,\" making the point size and font type fixed. The AlphaSmart could not display graphics, except for ASCII art. It ran on 2 AA batteries, and could be used for days at a time due to its power saving technique, effectively \"sleeping\" in between keystrokes. There was a rechargeable nickel-cadmium battery (NiCad) pack add-on that a customer could purchase separately.\n\nThe early AlphaSmart models included a couple of jokes, including a reference to \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\". If, while using the calculator, the answer is 42, the words \"The answer to Life, the Universe, and Everything\" appear. Or, if the input was 1+1, the calculator would say, \"That's too easy.\"\n\nIn February 1995, the AlphaSmart Pro was launched. This looked almost identical to the original but had a PS/2 port as well as an ADB port, making it compatible with both Windows PCs, as well as the Apple IIGS and Macintoshes. Second, the Pro had a \"find\" feature to search stored text. Third, the AlphaSmart Pro was able to receive text from a computer through \"Get Utility\" software installed on a Mac or Windows PC. Lastly, it included a password feature for securing content. The Pro model was able to store up to 64 pages of text (128,000 bytes), holding 16 pages in the first file, 8 pages in files two through five, 6 in files six & seven, and 4 pages on file number eight. The original rechargeable NiCad battery pack could also be used in the Pro model.\n\nIn October 1997, AlphaSmart, Inc. introduced the third generation of the AlphaSmart family, the AlphaSmart 2000. Along with a more ergonomic design, the case of the AlphaSmart 2000 was curvy and blue. New features added were spell-checking, direct printing (allowing a user to plug into a printer directly, bypassing a computer), auto-off power save, and a keyboarding timer. A year later, the company added infrared capability to the 2000, enabling users to transfer text to a computer or another AlphaSmart without a cable. This model needed 3 AA batteries, but could still use the original rechargeable NiCd battery pack. Like the Alphasmart Pro, it had a 128 kB memory.\n\nIn January 2000, the AlphaSmart 3000 was released. The 3000 used the same chassis as the AlphaSmart 2000, but it was now encased in translucent bondi-blue plastic, matching Apple Computer's first generation iMac. This was meant to be a visual indication that the AlphaSmart 3000 was a USB native device, as many other USB devices were patterned using the iMac's design in the same way.\n\nDesigners removed the ADB and PS/2 ports, replacing them with a USB port and a mini-DIN-8 serial port that allowed users to plug the AlphaSmart directly into a printer. Also new was the SmartApplet architecture that was capable of extending the simple functionality of an AlphaSmart with the inclusion of SmartApplets—miniature software applications that extend the AlphaSmart's functionality to give it features beyond basic word processing. For example, it included a simple 5-function calculator. Additionally, the battery life and memory were increased (although it still ran on 3 AA batteries), and cut/copy/paste functions were introduced. The original rechargeable NiCd battery pack was not compatible with this model. Instead, it used a new optional nickel metal hydride battery (NiMH) pack that lasted longer and eliminated the memory effect of NiCd batteries. The AlphaSmart 3000 had the customary 8 files, each with a capacity of 12.5 pages (about 25 kilobytes), for a total of 100 pages altogether.\n\nAlphaSmart announced the discontinuation of the AlphaSmart on April 30, 2006.\n\nIn June 2002,\nAlphaSmart released the Dana product which was a radical departure from their standard product line. Similar to Apple Computer's Newton eMate 300 (a laptop running the Newton PDA operating system), the Dana, FCC ID KV2DANA001, was a fully fledged Palm OS device complete with a touch-screen, allowing a user to write directly on the screen via Graffiti in addition to typing on the built-in, full-size keyboard. The Dana's screen had a backlight and was capable of displaying complex graphics (though only in 4 bit grayscale), unlike the original AlphaSmart line. It had 8 mebibyte (MiB) of storage and two expansion slots for cards in Secure Digital (SD) or Multimedia Card formats. It was compatible with nearly every Palm OS application, and some Palm apps could take advantage of the Dana's extra-wide screen, which was 3.5 times the norm (560 x 160 pixels).\n\nThe Dana's primary software was the built-in Alphawrite word processor. This is a licensed version of Wordsmith for Palm OS by Blue Nomad, customized for the Dana's wider screen. Up to eight Alphawrite documents could be resident at one time, each instantly accessible via the Dana's eight function keys. It was a simple matter to also switch between the Alphawrite documents and any of the four standing built-in application native to Palm OS (Memo Pad, Datebook, Todo, Address Book). Larger size fonts could be selected from within Alphawrite to compensate for the low-contrast screen display's being somewhat difficult to read.\n\nThe screen could be used in either landscape mode or portrait mode, though there is no auto-detection of how the Dana is positioned; the user had to tap a menu selection to choose the mode.\n\nThe screen was taller than that of the original AlphaSmart products, and the Dana's casing was made from opaque dark-blue plastic—a change from the iMac-esque clear blue of the AlphaSmart 3000. It used either a Ni-MH rechargeable battery or 3 AA batteries for up to 25 hours of usage.\n\nDanas produced near the end of its production run had their OS software modified because many users complained that their Danas were frequently turning themselves on when carried in a container, such as a backpack, depleting the battery charge. This was because the on off switch was getting depressed and switch the device on. Version 1.5 of the Dana OS provided a way to require both the Enter and On/Off keys to power it up, making it less likely that both keys would be depressed accidentally. This was accessed through the system Keyboard App.\n\nThe Dana had an IRDA compatible infrared port for transferring documents and files. This was a convenient way to back up files for those who had access to multiple Danas.\n\nOne year later, in 2003, Alphasmart added the Dana Wireless model (FCC ID KV2DANA002) which added built-in Wi-Fi connectivity for internet use & interaction with other Danas, doubled the RAM capacity from 8 MiB to 16 MiB, doubled flash ROM from 4 MiB to 8 MiB, and added SDIO support to the SD card slots. It used 3 AA batteries (standard or Ni-MH or Ni-Cad) for up to 20 hours of usage.\nThe Neo model was introduced in August 2004 and could hold more than 200 pages of text. Its LCD display was 50% larger than the AlphaSmart 3000's display. Unlike the 3000, it didn't use fixed blocks for each character and therefore could display different font/point sizes, along with simple graphics. The Neo also ran a newer operating system that allowed for modular control of SmartApplets and a new version of AlphaWord (the word processing SmartApplet), which allowed dynamic file resizing. The Neo's chassis was a dark opaque shade of green with its form factor based on the Dana. The Neo also used the same class of CPU as the Dana. It used the same optional NiMH battery pack as the AlphaSmart Dana. Initially the Neo had several software bugs, such as a hard-to-see cursor and a text-stacking file corruption problem.\n\nThe Neo 2 added several minor upgrades to the original Neo and was the first unit released after AlphaSmart was acquired by Renaissance Learning. It added quiz functionality, using the 2Know! Toolbar, which was developed for the 2Know! Classroom Response System. Teachers could create, distribute, and score quizzes using the Neo 2. Neo 2 could also access Accelerated Reader quizzes and allow students to use network printers, when using the Renaissance Receiver accessory.\n\nBoth the Neo and Neo 2 were discontinued by Renaissance Learning in late September 2013, although the company still offers support and software to existing users .\n\n"}
{"id": "26480489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26480489", "title": "Anahuac University Network", "text": "Anahuac University Network\n\nThe Anahuac University Network is a private universities system grouped and administered by the religious congregation of the Legion of Christ. The network is composed of several universities, some with different names and educational approaches. The universities are located in different countries of the world, having presence in Mexico, United States, Chile, Spain, Italy and France. \n\nThe network is also affiliated with the international education system of the Legion of Christ called the Education Consortium Anáhuac (CEA) in 18 countries and serving over 100,000 students from kindergarten to graduate school. The University network was founded in 1964 by the Priest Marcial Maciel LC., and has connections to the Catholic church. The motto of the organization is \"Vince in bono malum\" (Overcome evil with good). The university's goal is \"to form leaders of positive action\".\n\nThe mission is \"to facilitate the process of formation and development of people of integrity who, with their excellent preparation by professional and cultural exchanges, with their deep human and moral formation, inspired by the perennial values of Christian humanism, for their genuine social conscience and for their leadership of positive action, promote the authentic development of man and society.”\nThe name \"Anahuac\" literally means “near the water”. The name is derived from the location of the first university in the network, the campus \"Universidad Anahuac Mexico Norte\" located in the area of Lomas Anahuac in Interlomas in Mexico City. The name refers to \"the lake region that gave central place at the Aztec capital: Tenochtitlán, Central America's most populous and largest cultural development, where Mexico City now stands and in it, the University.\n\nThe Anahuac University Network consists of the following institutions:\n\nMéxico:\n\nSpain:\n\nItaly:\n\nUnited States:\n\nChile:\n\n"}
{"id": "35251417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35251417", "title": "Apprentices Act 1536", "text": "Apprentices Act 1536\n\nThe Apprentices Act 1536 (28 Hen 8 c 5) was an Act of the Parliament of England.\n\nThis Act was repealed from the beginning to the words \"more playnly may appere\" by section 1 of, and Schedule 1 to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1948.\n\nThe whole Act, so far as unrepealed, was repealed by section 1 of, and Part VII of the Schedule to, the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1969.\n\nThis section, from \"nor by any\" to \"Henry the Eighth\", was repealed by section 1 of, and the Schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1887.\n\n"}
{"id": "9985739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9985739", "title": "Assessment of basic language and learning skills", "text": "Assessment of basic language and learning skills\n\nThe assessment of basic language and learning skills (ABLLS, often pronounced \"ables\") is an educational tool used frequently with applied behavior analysis (ABA) to measure the basic linguistic and functional skills of an individual with developmental delays or disabilities.\n\nThe revised assessment of basic language and learning skills (ABLLS-R) is an assessment tool, curriculum guide, and skills-tracking system used to help guide the instruction of language and critical learner skills for children with autism or other developmental disabilities. It provides a comprehensive review of 544 skills from 25 skill areas including language, social interaction, self-help, academic and motor skills that most typically developing children acquire prior to entering kindergarten. Expressive language skills are assessed based upon the behavioral analysis of language as presented by Dr. B.F. Skinner in his book, Verbal Behavior (1957). The task items within each skill area are arranged from simpler to more complex tasks. This practical tool facilitates the identification of skills needed by the child to effectively communicate and learn from everyday experiences. The information obtained from this assessment allows parents and professionals to pinpoint obstacles that have been preventing a child from acquiring new skills and to develop a comprehensive language-based curriculum.\nThe ABLLS-R comprises two documents. The ABLLS-R Protocol is used to score the child’s performance on the task items and provides 15 appendices that allow for the tracking of a variety of specific skills that are included in the assessment. The ABLLS-R Guide provides information about the features of the ABLLS-R, how to correctly score items, and how to develop Individualized Education Program (IEP) goals and objectives that clearly define and target the learning needs of a student. \n\nThe original version was first released in 1998 by Behavior Analysts, Inc. and was developed by James W. Partington, Ph.D., BCBA-D and Mark L. Sundberg, Ph.D, BCBA-D. It was revised in 2006 by Partington. The revised version incorporates many new task items and provides a more specific sequence in the developmental order of items within the various skill areas. Significant changes were made in the revised version of the vocal imitation section with input from Denise Senick-Pirri, SLP-CCC. Additional improvements were made to incorporate items associated with social interaction skills, motor imitation and other joint attention skills, and to ensure the fluent use of established skills.\n\nThe WebABLLS is an electronic version of the assessment. It allows parents, teachers, speech pathologists, behavior analysts, and others who design, coordinate, or supervise language or skill-acquisition programs to expedite the development of IEPs, progress reports, and to easily share information about a child. The WebABLLS provides videos of many skills that are measured by the ABLLS-R and can be used to demonstrate those specific skills.\n\nOver the past four years, parents, relatives and friends of typically developing children have been participating in an ongoing research project by entering data into the WebABLLS. The data are collected by parents or professionals who both know the children and have received training in the administration of the ABLLS-R. The data are updated at three-month intervals (i.e., 6 months, 9 months, 12 months) in order to track the specific changes in skills over the course of the children’s development. These preliminary data have been collected in a systematic manner to provide information about when each skill measured by the ABLLS-R is usually acquired by typically developing children. \n\nThe preliminary data from this research project are from 81 children (42 females & 39 males) ranging in age from 6 months to 60 months. Children are from a variety of geographical locations (both nationally and internationally) and of differing ethnic, socio-economic and educational backgrounds. The average percent of the total possible scores along with the range from the highest to the lowest scores for the sample at each 3-month age intervals are presented. The data clearly indicate that typically developing children demonstrate most of the basic language and learning skills measured by the ABLLS-R by the time they are 4 to 5 years of age.\n\nWhile the ABLLS-R is most commonly used on children with developmental disabilities and delays (including autism), it can be used for anyone who may be lacking in basic communication or life skills.\n\nIt assesses the strengths and weaknesses of an individual in each of the 25 skill sets. Each skill set is broken down into multiple skills, ordered by typical development or complexity. So, a skill of F1 (Requests by indicating) is a simpler skill than F12 (Requesting Help). \"Usually\", lower level skills are needed before proceeding to teach higher skills. However, many individuals display splinter skills that are above their practical level.\n\nThe ABLLS-R is conducted via observation of the child's behavior in each skill area. The instructor will provide a stimulus to the child (verbal, hand-over-hand, non-verbal, etc.), and, depending on what the child does (the behavior), determines their skill-level. Some skills are difficult or time-consuming to test; instructors frequently accept anecdotal evidence from parents and other instructors as to a child's ability at a given skill-level.\n\nThe ABLLS-R is split into 25 functional areas, each corresponding to a letter in the alphabet. The sections between the ABLLS and ABLLS-R are similar; it is mostly the skills that vary in number and scope.\n\nThe following is a very brief list of advantages and disadvantages to using the ABLLS-R assessment.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46527810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46527810", "title": "Barbizon Modeling and Acting School", "text": "Barbizon Modeling and Acting School\n\nBarbizon Modeling and Acting School is an international modeling and acting school headquartered in Tampa, Florida that provides instructional courses in modeling, acting and personal development including self-confidence development, proper posture, photo movement, voice diction, etiquette, job interviewing, makeup application, and runway.\n\nThe first Barbizon School of Modeling and Acting was opened in 1939 on Fifth Avenue in New York City, New York, by Helen Fraser, a fashion model and teacher with her husband, Dr. Fraser, a dentist. The Barbizon name was developed from the Fraser's vacations to France where they became interested in the town of Barbizon, a village outside of Paris known for the 19th-century Barbizon school of painters. She wrote a book \"Assignment in Modeling: A Guide to a Career in Fashion and Photographic Modeling\".\n\nIn 1950, Helen met Ronald Reagan, who would later become President of the United States, and awarded him with the Best-Dressed Man in America award she established. In 1951, Helen acted as a celebrity judge for the Miss Brooklyn Pageant, alongside actress Denise Darcel and comedian Steve Allen.\n\nBarbizon Modeling and Acting Centers are located in more than 200 markets across the United States. International locations include Bangkok, Toronto, Santo Domingo and Japan.\n\nThe Barbizon curriculum prepares students for modeling and acting careers with courses focused in self-confidence, poise, style and industry education and techniques.\n\nBarbizon’s modeling curriculum follows the techniques used by professional models. Classes center around voice projection, self-confidence, print and runway modeling. The curriculum varies dependent upon the class category. Barbizon offers classes for female modeling, male modeling, pre-teen (kids) modeling, full-figure modeling, and advanced professional modeling.\n\nBarbizon’s acting curriculum focuses on film and television acting through classes that educate students in areas of comedy, monologues, drama, how to go on an audition and script reading. Stage presence and personality are also incorporated heavily into the curriculum.\n\nIn 1992, Barbizon began a college scholarship program, paying up to $100,000 of tuition for the scholarship recipients to any college or university in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "53586312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53586312", "title": "Beakerhead", "text": "Beakerhead\n\nBeakerhead is a multi-day festival held every September in Calgary, Alberta, Canada that combines the arts/culture sectors with the science/technology sectors to encourage collaboration, innovation, and science education through interactive art exhibits, engineered installations, entertainment, and workshops – drawing international presenters and attendees. Beakerhead also includes a year-round education and outreach initiative.\n\nThrough public art installations, science on the streets, and community and school competitions, Beakerhead promotes the progression of education at the intersection of arts, science, and engineering. Since its inception in 2013, Beakerhead has become one of Calgary's largest collaborations, bringing together students, artists, scientists, engineers, Calgarians, and tourists in indoor and outdoor public spaces and venues throughout Calgary. Presenters have included: former astronaut and musician Chris Hadfield, ArcAttack, Zimoun, Bee Kingdom Glass, Wu Tang Clan's GZA, Dr. Chris Emdin, MondoSpider, El Pulpo Mecanico, Amanda Parer, and CompressorHead.\n\nIn 2016, more than 130,000 people attended Beakerhead.\n\n\nBeakerhead Big Bang is an interactive public art proposal and residency program that helps support the creation of new artwork, which will debut in Calgary during the five-day long Beakerhead event every September. The program invites artists, architects, scientists, and other creative professionals to propose an interactive public art installation that incorporates science, technology, and collective experience. The selected project will be funded by Beakerhead and built in Calgary over the course of a year, beginning with a weeklong planning residency hosted at Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity.\n\nThe inaugural Big Bang Residency was awarded to the BASS SHIP by Beama.The BASS Ship, which stands for Beama Applied Sciences Sector Ship, is a 30-foot high interactive audio-visual spaceship that invites participants to explore ideas about non-verbal communication, culture, and civilization.\n\nBeakerhead works with the kindergarten to grade 12 education system to provide curriculum-related experiences that allow students to explore the combination of both artistic and scientific skills. In 2015, Beakerhead worked with 24,200 students in 104 participating schools. The current school programs include field trips, school visits, and an annual Ingenuity Challenge.\n\nFor the past ten years, the co-founders of Beakerhead, Jay Ingram and Mary Anne Moser, have hosted a science and communications program at the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity where participants could learn to present science with a compelling, audience-focused approach. Previously, the SciComm labs have been intensive two-week summer courses, but, as of 2017, Beakerhead is extending the program and offering courses across Canada. Previous course sessions included \"Elevator Pitch,\" \"Personalizing the Impersonal,\" \"Audience-Focused Communications,\" and \"Improv.\"\n\nThe first edition of Beakerhead took place September 11–15, 2013. The main events and attractions included:\n\nThe second edition of Beakerhead took place September 10–14, 2014. The main events and attractions included:\n\nThe third edition of Beakerhead took place September 16–20, 2015. The main events and attractions included:\n\nThe third edition of Beakerhead took place September 14–18, 2016. The main events and attractions included:\n"}
{"id": "47741499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47741499", "title": "CEO of public schools", "text": "CEO of public schools\n\nThe CEO of schools is a new concept which replaces the traditional superintendent in managing the daily operations of a school district. It is a system utilized in struggling school districts in an attempt to turn around failing schools. The goal is to introduce private market ideas into a school system through a CEO with unilateral power to enact necessary reforms. The concept was first introduced in 1995 in the Chicago Public School System. \n\nThe functions of the CEO vary from school district to school district. Whereas the CEO mostly replaces both the roles of the school board and superintendent, other school districts place the CEO below the superintendent and grant power over the day-to-day operations. In Chicago, the CEO has the power to appoint the school board. However, in other school districts with elected school boards, the CEO is often appointed in spite of the board. Using a CEO in a public school system mirrors the typical structure of a charter school which, perhaps, serves as the inspiration for using a CEO of a public school.\n\nA CEO is different from a superintendent in that the CEO of schools has total control over every decision made by a school district;<ref name=\"CEO / About the CEO\"></ref> the CEO decides what rights, if any, are delegated to the board of education. A CEO of Schools often needs no background in education. The goal of implementing a CEO of schools is to remove power from School Boards of ineffective school districts and replace with an individual to bring private market business ideas to the education system. It is a way to address the inequality of public schools and attempt to raise failing schools to a functional level.\n\nThe first school district in the nation to appoint a CEO was the Chicago Public School district, who appointed Paul Vallas as CEO in 1995. Baltimore implemented reforms to its school system in 1997 which led to the appointment of a CEO. Cleveland soon followed suit by appointing Barbara Byrd-Bennett as CEO under Mayoral Control in 1998.\n\nThe appointment of CEO has proven controversial in some instances. The attempt to appoint a CEO of the Youngstown, Ohio school system has been met with a lawsuit. The lawsuit was unsuccessful. Proponents argue that, by removing local control and placing it in the hands of a CEO, it creates a more efficient system which can turn around the school system. Opponents argue that it strips local control and accountability from the management of the school systems.\n\nAnother controversy has centered around Barbara Byrd-Bennett, the former CEO of Chicago Public Schools and later Cleveland Metropolitan School District. Ms. Byrd-Bennett was the subject of a 23-count federal indictment accusing her of executing a scheme to give a $20 million no-bid contract in return for a kick-back. She entered a guilty plea on October 13, 2015.\n"}
{"id": "3476689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3476689", "title": "CIAST", "text": "CIAST\n\nThe Centre for Instructor and Advanced Skill Training (CIAST; ) is under the aegis of the Manpower Department, Ministry of Human Resources of Malaysia and has been operational since 1984. Its establishment was sponsored by the Government of Japan under ASEAN Human Resources Development.\n\nThe centre offer courses in Instructor Training, Supervisory Training and Advanced Skill Training for instructors, supervisors and skilled workers from the private and public sectors.\n\nEarly in year 1994, the new department \"National Instructor Training Program\" (NITP) was established. The objective is to prepare skilled and competent instructors for training centres and industries.\n\nThe Centre for Instructor and Advanced Skill Training (CIAST) serves as a leading institution in the development and enhancement of skills training in Malaysia. A training institute under the Ministry of Human Resources, CIAST is conducting various courses for students from other Malaysian vocational training institutes, for local industries and those from abroad. The courses offered include instructor training at all levels for the public and private sector from Malaysia and beyond. Training programmes at CIAST are conducted by experienced instructors with various technical backgrounds. Through the support from Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) and international organisations, CIAST has proven its firm commitment to implementing and strengthening Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) at home and abroad. Some of the international programmes include as the Third Country Training Programme (TCTP), Malaysian Technical Cooperation Programme (MTCP) and ASEAN-Japan HRD Collaboration Programme.\n\n"}
{"id": "10191668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10191668", "title": "Christian Service University College", "text": "Christian Service University College\n\nThe Christian Service University College is one of the university colleges accredited by the National Accreditation Board in the past decade. It is also accredited by the Accrediting Council for Theological Education in Africa. It is affiliated to the University of Ghana and the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities. It is located in Kumasi, the second largest city in Ghana.\n\nThe college began as a merger of two visions in January 1974. A group of Ghanaian Christians had a vision of an interdenominational, evangelical institution of a high academic standard, which would train men and women for all types of Christian Ministry. The second group comprised expatriate missionaries who had a vision of an institution to train workers from the well-established church in southern Ghana for a thrust into northern Ghana and neighboring countries where the church was small.\nEvangelical Christianity in Ghana in the late 1960s and 1970s was characterized, among other things, by intimate interaction and collaboration and blurring of denominational, mission and group distinctions. The Worldwide Evangelization for Christ (WEC), which was one of the missionary groups in the second group of missionaries, had acquired property in Kumasi on which they had built four dwelling houses and a radio studio with plans to construct a large building to serve as the beginning of a training college. Soon the two visions merged.\n\nIn October 1974, the first residential classes started with four students and the college went from strength to strength and has now become an evangelical Christian university college.\n\nThe university is based on a main campus within Kumasi, the capital of the Ashanti Region.\n\n\nThe university has 30 academic and 55 administrative and support staff. The student population has now increased into the thousands.\n\nThe university has a students union known as the Students Representative Council. This has existed since 1983.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52885406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52885406", "title": "Clara Converse", "text": "Clara Converse\n\nClara Converse (May 8, 1857 – January 24, 1935) was an American teacher and missionary who joined the Woman’s Baptist Foreign Missionary Society and became a pioneer educator in Japan. After earning her credentials at the Vermont Academy and Smith College, Converse moved to Yokohama where she was influential in establishing girl's education. In addition to directing the \"Soshin Jo-Gakko\" (Truth Seeking Girl's School) for thirty-five years, she established several kindergartens. Her work to improve education for women in Japan was recognized by the Blue Ribbon Medal of Honor in 1929.\n\nClara Adra Converse was born on 8 May 1857 in Grafton, Windham County, Vermont to Mary (née Stuart/Stewart) and Newton R. Converse. She was one of nine children and grew up on her parents farm in Grafton, where her father had been born. Her paternal grandparents, Robert and Edna (née Hale) Converse had immigrated from Marlborough, New Hampshire to Vermont before the birth of their children. Her maternal grandfather Joseph Stuart was a miller and farmer from Andover, Vermont. After completing her elementary education, Converse graduated from the Vermont State Normal School at the age of sixteen.\n\nConverse began working as a teacher in the public schools and in 1877, when the Vermont Academy opened, she enrolled in the preparatory courses, graduating in 1879, as one of the two women enrolled in her class. Continuing her studies Converse attended Smith College, graduating in the class of 1883. Her mother died the following year. Converse returned to Vermont Academy, after completion of her education and between 1884 and 1889, she taught German, Greek, mathematics and rhetoric. One of her students was Florence Sabin. In 1885, she became the superintendent of schools in Grafton simultaneously with her teaching. When her father died in 1888, Converse felt led to become a missionary.\n\nAround this same time, the Woman's Baptist Foreign Missionary Society had published a plea for volunteers to go abroad. Converse applied to the society in Boston in May, 1889 and was appointed to teach in Yokohama, Japan at the Mary L. Colby Home. She gave her notice to the Vermont Academy and made her way to San Francisco. Arriving in Japan in January, 1890, she began working and by that autumn, was placed in charge of the school. She was the second principal in the school's history, following the founder Charlotte Brown, wife of Nathan Brown. In 1891, a new school building was erected in Yamate and the following year, the name was changed to \"Soshin Jo-Gakko\" , (Truth-Seeking Girls School), to reflect that the girls' education was to be based on a search for Christian ideals.\n\nIn 1897, Converse received her first furlough and returned to the United States, where she undertook several talks about her work abroad. She returned to Japan and worked to spread the cause of girls' education founding Bible study, Sunday schools and a kindergarten. In 1899, when the Meiji government implemented reforms to the educational system in Japan, Converse secured licensing for the school from the government for the school's operation. She took a second vacation in 1907 and remained in the United States for a year, once again traveling and making presentations to increase support for her work abroad. During that time, a new site and expansion for the school was planned.\n\nWhen she returned, Converse set out to revise the school curriculum, taking the elementary school to six-year program and the girls' high school to a five-year plan with the last three dedicated to their field of expertise. The school continued to change and expand. In 1918, when Tokyo University allowed women to enter, Converse was appointed as a director of studies for women. She terminated the English courses at \"Soshin\" since girls could study them in the university, but within the year, she brought them back. Beginning in 1921, she asked for a replacement as principal and began preparing for her retirement, though it would take four years for a new principal, Annabel Pawley to be hired, and for Converse to tender her resignation. Though she retired from the school, Converse continued her missionary works and remained as an emeritus principal, helping with the school. Between 1925 and 1935, she established four kindergartens and assisted with their development. In 1929, Emperor Showa Hirohito conferred on Converse the Blue Ribbon Medal of Honor, in recognition of her contributions to women's education and the Japanese nation.\n\nConverse died on January 24, 1935 in Yokohama and was buried in the Mitsuzawa Cemetery. In 1959, the son of Converse's first Japanese graduate came to the United States to pay tribute to the teacher's memory. He had become an educator largely because of Converse's influence on his mother. The school she worked to build was still thriving at that time.\n\n"}
{"id": "58283830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58283830", "title": "College Quarterly", "text": "College Quarterly\n\nThe College Quarterly is a peer-reviewed academic journal established in 1993 and published by Seneca College in Toronto, Ontario. The journal publishes scholarly articles and book reviews from a wide variety of academic fields related to teaching and learning and higher education policy issues in North America.\n"}
{"id": "56608943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56608943", "title": "Evelyn Silvia", "text": "Evelyn Silvia\n\nEvelyn Marie Silvia (February 8, 1948 – January 21, 2006) was an American mathematician specializing in functional analysis and particularly in starlike functions. She was a professor at the University of California, Davis, and as well as teaching mathematics at the undergraduate and graduate levels there, was active in the improvement of secondary-school mathematics education.\n\nSilvia was born in Fall River, Massachusetts.\nA seventh-grade mathematics teacher told her she was the best student he had ever seen, a moment that built her confidence in the subject and led her to become a mathematician.\n\nShe graduated from Southeastern Massachusetts University in 1969, with a bachelor's degree in mathematics. Continuing her graduate education at Clark University, she earned a master's degree in 1973 and completed her Ph.D. in 1973. Her doctoral dissertation, \"Classes Related to Alpha-Starlike Functions\", was supervised by Herb Silverman.\n\nSilvia joined the UC Davis faculty in 1973, and remained there until retiring and becoming a professor emeritus shortly before her death. \n\nBeyond her work as a mathematics professor, Silvia worked as a volunteer teacher of mathematics in local elementary and secondary schools. In the 1970s, she directed a master's-level teaching program at UC Davis, and in the 1990s, she headed the Northern California Math Project, an effort to improve mathematics education throughout Northern California.\n\nThe UC Davis Academic Senate gave Silvia their Distinguished Teaching Award in 1990. In 2001, she was one of the winners of the Deborah and Franklin Haimo Award for Distinguished College or University Teaching of Mathematics, given by the Mathematical Association of America to recognize college or university teachers \"who have been widely recognized as extraordinarily successful and whose teaching effectiveness has been shown to have had influence beyond their own institutions\".\n"}
{"id": "2998134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2998134", "title": "French universities", "text": "French universities\n\nFor French universities, see:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55503509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55503509", "title": "Gail F. Burrill", "text": "Gail F. Burrill\n\nGail F. Burrill is a mathematics educator who was president of the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM) for 1996–1998. She works as a specialist in the Program in Mathematics Education at Michigan State University.\n\nBurrill worked for nearly 30 years as a high school mathematics teacher, is the author of multiple textbooks, and has pushed to include statistics in the curriculum.\n\nShe won the Presidential Award for Excellence in Teaching Mathematics in 1985, and the lifetime achievement award of the NCTM in 2012. She was also given an honorary doctorate by the Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology in 2000. In 1994, she was elected as a fellow of the American Statistical Association.\n"}
{"id": "45708513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45708513", "title": "GreenCE", "text": "GreenCE\n\nGreenCE is an online platform that educates architects, engineers, interior designers, and contractors. The organization is a US Green Building Council (USGBC) Education Partner. The USGBC developed the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) system, the world's most utilized green building rating system. GreenCE is also an American Institute of Architects (AIA) Education Provider. It develops and delivers continuing education via online courses, webinars, and live classroom events. GreenCE is a partner with the Health Product Declaration Collaborative and is one of only seven companies in the world to help develop third party verification tools for the building product declaration. GreenCE is based in San Antonio, TX and has an office in the Portland, OR dedicated to LEED certification education.\n\nGreenCE was founded by Ron Blank and Brad Blank in 2006. Ron Blank also owns Ron Blank & Associates, a firm that specializes in architectural specification for building product manufacturers.\n\nOnline courses and webinars are the main focus of the GreenCE education platform. The platform delivers education about LEED certification, the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA), and sustainable design case studies.\n\nGreenCE develops Health Product Declarations for building products. The HPD provides information about a building product's contents, environmental health hazards, and plays a significant role in building product specification. The HPD can contribute points under the LEED v4 green building rating system. GreenCE develops HPDs utilizing a multi-disciplinary team of biologists, architects, and LEED experts.\n"}
{"id": "55234196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55234196", "title": "Hasna Begum", "text": "Hasna Begum\n\nHasna Begum (born February 24, 1935) is a contemporary Bangladeshi philosopher and feminist and was a professor of philosophy at the University of Dhaka until her retirement in December 2000.\n\nShe earned her BA (1968) and MA (1969) from the University of Dhaka and her PhD (1978) in moral philosophy from Monash University, where she was the first doctoral advisee of Australian philosopher Peter Singer. The title of her doctoral dissertation was \"Moore’s Ethics: Theory and Practice\". Begum is a prolific author, and translated a number of philosophical classics into Bengali.\n\nBegum served as chair of the Department of Philosophy at the University of Dhaka from 1991 to 1994 and was appointed to the University Grants Commission (UGC) of Bangladesh's Rokeya Chair in 2010. She was a board member of the International Association of Bioethics (IAB) from 1997 to 2005, was a member of the editorial board of \"Bioethics\", and is a member of the editorial board the \"Eubios Journal of Asian and International Bioethics\" (\"EJAIB\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8091573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8091573", "title": "Honolulu Waldorf School", "text": "Honolulu Waldorf School\n\nHonolulu Waldorf School, established in 1961, is a coeducational, independent school serving more than 300 children from early childhood through high school located on the island of Oahu in the State of Hawaii. The original Nursery through Grade 8 school, founded in 1961, is on a monkey pod tree-shaded campus in Honolulu’s Niu Valley () at 350 Ulua Street in Niu Valley.\n\nThe high school began in 1994 with its first freshmen class and graduated its first class of seniors in 1998. As of May, 2009 the high school campus was located in the Honolulu suburb of Kahala. It was relocated to an oceanfront property at 5257 Kalanianaole Highway in Aina Haina, in August of the same year ().\n\nBased on the educational insights of Dr. Rudolf Steiner, Waldorf education is the fastest-growing independent educational movement in the world, with more than 1,000 Waldorf schools on six continents.\n\nAs a part of Waldorf education, the Honolulu Waldorf School teaches what is developmentally appropriate beginning in early childhood and ending at Grade 12.\n\nIn the high school, the academic year is apportioned into three to four week blocks called Main Lessons, whereby a subject such as science, history, math or English is taught for two hours every morning. Throughout the year students are presented a range of topics including oceanography, Shakespeare, botany, foundations of democracy, comedy and tragedy, Faust, zoology, biochemistry, physiology and analytical geometry.\n\nInstead of school policies and curricula being created and maintained by a principal, the entire faculty administer the school through communal discussions and consensus decisions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3417454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3417454", "title": "Internet tutorial", "text": "Internet tutorial\n\nThe term Internet tutorial can have two different meanings. It can mean a tutorial on the Internet which can have any kind of subject; it may also refer to a tutorial that teaches Internet beginners basic skills on how to use the Internet.\n\n"}
{"id": "2856086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2856086", "title": "Ishu Patel", "text": "Ishu Patel\n\nIshu Patel is an animation film director/producer and educator. During his twenty-five years at the National Film Board of Canada he developed animation techniques and styles to support his themes and vision. Since then he has produced animated spots for television and has been teaching internationally.\n\nIshu Patel was born in the State of Gujarat, India.\n\nHe received his Bachelor of Fine Arts from M.S.University of Baroda, Gujarat, following which he was accepted into the first cohort of faculty trainees hired at the newly formed National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad, Gujarat.\n\nThis was an exceptional design school created by the Government of India under the auspices of Mrs. Gandhi and the influential industrialist family of Gautam and Gira Sarabhai. The school was based upon the recommendations and philosophy of the American industrial designers Ray and Charles Eames, as found in The India Report. \n\nThrough a Ford Foundation Grant provided to the National Institute of Design, Ishu Patel was able to finish his post graduate studies in Graphic Design under Armin Hoffman at the Allgemeine Gewerbeschule in Basel, Switzerland, and returned to the National Institute of Design where he taught and became Head of Visual Communications. \n\nA Rockefeller Foundation Scholarship brought Ishu Patel to the National Film Board of Canada to study animation filmmaking for a year, and in 1972 he joined the NFB where, for the next twenty-five years under the NFB mandate Ishu Patel produced and directed animated films and mentored young animation filmmakers.\n\nThere he both adapted and originated several notable techniques: \nin the abstract film \"Perspectrum\" he adapted the Norman McLaren technique of multiple passes and variable exposures; the films \"Afterlife\" and \"Top Priority\" were the result of accidentally discovering, and then developing, the under-lit plasticine technique; for the film \"Paradise\" he developed the under-lit pin hole technique with multiple passes; and for \"The Bead Game\" he created the procedures for moving thousands of tiny beads under an ever-zooming-outward camera.\n\nHe co-produced animation projects with NHK of Japan and Channel Four of Britain, and contributed French language segments to Sesame Street for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.\n\nHis many international awards include the British Academy Award, two Oscar nominations, the Silver Bear Award at the Berlin Film Festival, Grand Prix at the Annecy International Animation Film Festival, and Grand Prix at the Montreal World Film Festival. He is particularly known for his 1977 film \"Bead Game\" which was nominated for an Academy Award.\n\nThrough the National Film Board of Canada Outreach Program Ishu Patel conducted animation workshops with Inuit artists of Cape Dorset, with healthcare fieldworkers in Ghana, and with students in the former Yugoslavia, Korea, Japan and the United States. During those years he returned regularly to Ahmedabad, India where he often taught his approaches and techniques to the animation students at his alma mater the National Institute of Design, and contributed some assistance in formulating the animation program.\n\nAfter leaving the NFBC he conducted student workshops and Master Classes throughout Asia, mentoring young faculty and developing curricula. He has conducted Master Classes at Bezalel Academy of Art and Design, Jerusalem, and the Animation Image Society of Toronto, at the School of Animation, Communication University of China, Beijing, and at the School of Animation, Southwest University of Nationalities, Chengdu, China. Ishu Patel was Special Guest and conducted screenings and a Master Class at the 7th. Big Cartoon Festival in Moscow, Russia, November 2014. He was Visiting Professor at the School of Art, Design and Media, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore.\n\n\n\"Moondust:\"\n\n\"Divine Fate:\"\n\n\"Paradise/Paradis:\"\n\"Top Priority:\"\n\n\"Afterlife:\"\n\n\"Bead Game\"\n\n"}
{"id": "55564388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55564388", "title": "Jill Adler", "text": "Jill Adler\n\nJillian Beryl Adler née Smidt (born 31 January 1951 in Johannesburg) is a South African Professor of Mathematics education at the University of the Witwatersrand and the President of the International Commission on Mathematical Instruction (2017 - 2020). Adler's work has focused on the teaching and learning of mathematics particularly in multilingual classrooms.\n\nJill Adler was born in Johannesburg, South Africa. She obtained her undergraduate and postgraduate degrees from the University of the Witwatersrand. Currently, she serves as the Chair of Mathematics Education at Wits University and as the President of the International Commission on Mathematical Instruction (2017 - 2020). Adler's work has focused on the teaching and learning of mathematics particularly in multilingual classrooms as well as the professional development of secondary school maths teachers. She has an A-rating, the highest possible, from the National Research Foundation of South Africa. \nFrom 2009 to 2014 Professor Adler was a visiting professor at King's College London. She is a member of the Academy of Science of South Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10475116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10475116", "title": "Judith Raskin", "text": "Judith Raskin\n\nJudith Raskin (June 21, 1928 – December 21, 1984) was an American lyric soprano, renowned for her fine voice as well as her acting.\n\nRaskin was born in New York to Harry A. Raskin, a high school music teacher, and Lillian Raskin, a grade school teacher. Her father aroused her childhood interest in music, leading her to study violin and piano, before she turned her focus to singing. In 1945, she graduated from Roosevelt High School, Yonkers and attended Smith College, where she majored in music. It was during her college years that she began taking singing lessons, which she continued after graduation in order to develop further the warmth and artistry of her voice.\n\nIn 1948, she married Dr. Raymond A. Raskin, with whom she had two children, Jonathon and Lisa.\n\nWinning the Marian Anderson award in 1952 and 1953, and the Musicians Club of New York's Young Artist Award in 1956, Raskin started to perform in concerts throughout the United States. She secured national recognition in 1957 for her part in the televised American premiere of Poulenc's \"Dialogues des Carmélites\". Her prominence continued to rise in July the same year when she starred in a concert version of Puccini's \"La bohème\", with the Symphony of the Air in Central Park. Finally, in 1959, she joined the New York City Opera (NYCO), debuting in Mozart's \"Così fan tutte\".\n\nHer next spectacular performance was the title role of Douglas Moore's \"The Ballad of Baby Doe\" for the NYCO in 1960. Two years later, she made her crowning debut in 1962 at the Metropolitan Opera, as Susanna in Mozart's \"The Marriage of Figaro\". In 1969, Raskin performed in Boston for the Peabody Mason Concert series. During the rest of her career, she would specialize in lyrical roles written not only by Mozart but also by Richard Strauss. She made recordings with Columbia, London, Decca, RCA Victor, and CRI. She also served on many music advisory boards, as well as in the Young Concert Artists, the National Opera Institute and the National Endowment for the Arts. One of her main concerns was the need to establish more opera companies in American cities to provide practical experience to \"well trained American singers with no place to go\", since \"the only way to become professional is to perform.\"\n\nAs a music educator, Raskin taught at the Manhattan School of Music, and at the 92nd Street Y, where she took the role of Pearl, the rabbi's wife, in Lazar Weiner's opera \"The Golem\" in 1979.\n\nFollowing a long battle with ovarian cancer, Raskin died in New York in 1984.\n\n2 RCA Victor recorded highlights of Sigmund Romberg's 'Desert Song' with Mario Lanza and Judith Raskin; reissued on CD in January 2011\n"}
{"id": "20688336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20688336", "title": "List of libraries in Thailand", "text": "List of libraries in Thailand\n\nThis is a list of libraries in Thailand:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36128965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36128965", "title": "Lizbet Martínez", "text": "Lizbet Martínez\n\nLizbet Martínez is a Cuban violinist and English teacher at M.A. Milam K-8 Center.\n\nDuring the \"\"balsero crisis\" of 1994, over 30,000 Cubans immigrated to the United States from Cuba on rafts. Seen as a symbol of the balsero exodus, Martínez first became known on August 21, 1994, as a 12-year-old rafter from Cuba. This was when the U.S. Coast Guard picked her and her family out of her raft. The Coast Guard wanted to take her violin because they thought the case might contain a weapon. She then opened the case and started to play The Star Spangled Banner on her violin. She spent five months at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base before being relocated to Miami.\n\nMartínez attended Florida International University and received a Bachelor of Science degree in music education. At her graduation at Florida International University she played the anthem in front of her fellow graduates to kick off the university's commencement ceremony. Martínez later played on her violin in front of United States Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush. Martínez also performed alongside Gloria Estefan and Jon Secada.\n\nShe later became a teacher at Emerson Elementary, before teaching at M.A. Milam K-8 Center. She taught music, until budget cuts took away Milam's music program, leading her to teach English. Martínez is also married and has two children. Martínez was also featured in the film \"Voices from Cuba\". After 20 years passed since Martínez emigrated from Cuba, a follow-up article was published about the situation.\n\n"}
{"id": "12987184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12987184", "title": "Matriculation examination", "text": "Matriculation examination\n\nA matriculation examination or matriculation exam is a final examination held at secondary schools. After passing the examination, the students receive a school leaving certificate, which allows them to matriculate at university and take up their studies.\n\nThe following matriculation examinations are conducted:\n\n"}
{"id": "264046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=264046", "title": "McJob", "text": "McJob\n\nMcJob is slang for a low-paying, low-prestige dead-end job that requires few skills and offers very little chance of intracompany advancement. The term McJob comes from the name of the fast-food restaurant McDonald's, but is used to describe any low-status job – regardless of the employer – where little training is required, staff turnover is high, and workers' activities are tightly regulated by managers.\n\n\"McJob\" was in use at least as early as 1986, according to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" (OED), which defines it as \"An unstimulating, low-paid job with few prospects, esp. one created by the expansion of the service sector.\" Lack of job security is common.\n\nThe term was coined by sociologist Amitai Etzioni, and appeared in the \"Washington Post\" on August 24, 1986 in the article \"McJobs are Bad for Kids\". The term was popularized by Douglas Coupland's 1991 novel \"\", described therein as \"a low-pay, low-prestige, low-dignity, low benefit, no-future job in the service sector. Frequently considered a satisfying career choice by people who have never held one.\"\n\nThe term appears in the 1994 novel \"Interface\" (by Neal Stephenson and George Jewsbury) to describe in the abstract positions that are briefly held and underpaid. In the 1999 British film \"Human Traffic\", one character's work in a generic burger outlet is referred to as a McJob.\n\nIn the face of objections from McDonald's, the term \"McJob\" was added to \"Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary\" in 2003. In an open letter to Merriam-Webster, McDonald's CEO, James Cantalupo denounced the definition as a \"slap in the face\" to all restaurant employees, and stated that \"a more appropriate definition of a 'McJob' might be 'teaches responsibility'\". Merriam-Webster responded that \"[they stood] by the accuracy and appropriateness of [their] definition.\"\n\nOn 20 March 2007, the BBC reported that the UK arm of McDonald's planned a public petition to have the OED's definition of \"McJob\" changed. Lorraine Homer from McDonald's stated that the company feels the definition is \"out of date and inaccurate\". McDonald's UK CEO, Peter Beresford, described the term as \"demeaning to the hard work and dedication displayed by the 67,000 McDonald's employees throughout the UK\". The company would prefer the definition to be rewritten to \"reflect a job that is stimulating, rewarding ... and offers skills that last a lifetime\".\n\nThese comments run counter to the principle that dictionaries simply record linguistic usage rather than judge it, and that dropping the entry for \"McJob\" would be a precedent for bowdlerising definitions of other derogatory terms. McDonald's attempted to get all of its workers to sign the petition but many refused on the grounds that the current definition is accurate despite the company's complaint.\n\nDuring the aforementioned arguments that broke out when Merriam-Webster included \"McJob\" in its new edition, McDonald's officials implied the company might bring a lawsuit against the dictionary based on this trademark issue, but never did so. McDonald's disputes that its jobs are poor, because the company has been nominated for employee awards that are created by employers. However, this was contradicted in the outcome of the UK McLibel court case, in which the judges ruled that it was fair to say that McDonald's employees worldwide \"do badly in terms of pay and conditions\".\n\nThe term \"McJOBS\" was registered as a trademark by McDonald's in 1984 as a name and image for \"training handicapped persons as restaurant employees\". The trademark lapsed in February 1992, and was declared canceled by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Following the October 1992 publication of \"Generation X\" in paperback, McDonald's restored the trademark.\n\nThere are often wide variations in how workers are actually treated depending on the local franchise owner. Some employees start out in entry-level McJobs and later become assistant managers or managers, continuing to work at the same franchise for many years; however this is the exception rather than the norm. McDonald's advertises that its CEO, Jim Skinner, began working at the company as a regular restaurant employee, and that 20 of its top 50 managers began work as regular crew members.\n\nAccording to Jim Cantalupo, former CEO of McDonald's, the perception of fast-food work being boring and mindless is inaccurate, and over 1,000 of the people who now own McDonald's franchises began behind the counter. Because McDonald's has over 400,000 employees and high turnover, Cantalupo's contention has been criticized as being invalid, working to highlight the exception rather than the rule.\n\nIn 2006, McDonald's undertook an advertising campaign in the United Kingdom to challenge the perceptions of the \"McJob\". The campaign, developed by Barkers Advertising and supported by research conducted by Adrian Furnham, professor of psychology at University College London, highlighted the benefits of working for the organization, stating that they were \"Not bad for a McJob\". So confident were McDonald's of their claims that they ran the campaign on the giant screens of London's Piccadilly Circus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1980709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1980709", "title": "Michelle McLean", "text": "Michelle McLean\n\nMichelle McLean (born 31 July 1972 in Windhoek) is a Namibian actress, writer, model and beauty queen who was crowned Miss Universe in 1992. She was 19 years old when she represented Namibia and became the first (and so far only) woman from Namibia to win the crown. McLean was only the second woman after Ronel Liebenberg to represent Namibia as an independent country.\n\nAt the age of 13, Michelle McLean entered the world of International modelling, being crowned Miss Namibia in 1991 and reaching the all-time high as Miss Universe, crowned in Bangkok, Thailand, in 1992 - at the age of 19.\n\nAs a Master of Ceremonies, Michelle McLean has worked in 26 countries, including South America and Asia. Some of her more memorable events have been the hosting of ‘Opera at the Pyramids’; M-Net’s ‘Face of Africa’ competition in Ghana and Egypt and the Loeries Advertising Awards in both 1998 and 2000.\n\nAs a TV presenter, her shows have ranged from magazine and lifestyle to music and e-commerce to show-casing some of South Africa’s most stylish homes in her new DSTV Home Channel “Better Bonds Celebrity Homes”.She is also one of South Africa’s leading voice-over artists, with MTN Cellular as one of her main clients.\n\nShe campaigns tirelessly for many charities and topping this list is The Michelle McLean Children Trust in Namibia, formed in 1992 and still going strong, and the Michelle McLean Primary School, also in Namibia, which has 890 students. She is the current face of Lux Lotion.Michelle is involved in various business ventures, most notably in the property market as a Director of one of the country’s top Estate Agencies and she has just launched a fine jewellery range.\n\nBefore she became Miss Universe, McLean competed in Miss World 1991. In the preliminary competition she was tied in second place with a score of 51 along with Miss South Africa, behind the eventual winner, Venezuela's Ninibeth Leal; McLean eventually finished in the top 5.\n\nIn the 1992 Miss Universe pageant she finished second in the preliminary with a score of 9.147, right behind Carolina Izsak of Venezuela, who won all three preliminary competitions. Nonetheless, McLean's warmth and love for children helped clinch the crown over Izsak, Paola Turbay of Colombia, and Madhushri Sapre of India.\n\nIn 1992 Michelle founded the Michelle McLean Children's Trust in Namibia, which focuses on the education and care of under-privileged children.\n\nMichelle was instrumental in bringing the Miss Universe pageant to her country in 1995. Michelle married Neil Bierbaum, they had a son together, Luke McLean Bierbaum in 1999 they then divorced in 2006. \nIn 2000 Michelle funded the building of the Michelle McLean Primary School, in the capital of Namibia, Windhoek. It now has just under 1000 students. In 2009 Michelle co-hosted the Miss World pageant held in South Africa.\n\nMichelle McLean is a well known international media personality, entrepreneur and philanthropist.She started her international modeling career at the age of 13 years and won the Miss Universe title in 1992 at the age of 19 years for Namibia. From 1993 to 1994 while living in Los Angeles Michelle did acting with Sal Dano (Tom Seleck and Carrie Otis’s coach).After moving back to South Africa,\n\nMichelle became a presenter for Mnet from 1995 to 2003 hosting and presenting numerous programmes. Front Row (a magazine show), E-bucks (an e-commerce show), Buy Design (a property make-over show for SABC), Celebrity Homes (showcasing their homes for DSTV), Revlon Supermodels (a reality show for SABC) and most recently Woza Lunchtime (lifestyle show for Super Sport during the FIFA World Cup 2010).\n\nMichelle was the face of Lux Lotion in South Africa and has been the official voice of MTN for six years.Close to her heart is the Michelle McLean Children Trust, which she established in 1992. The Trust built a primary school in her name and provides education for 900 children.\n\nIn addition they established the Michelle McLean School of Excellence, which provides entrepreneurial and financial skills training to learners. The Trust has initiated and managed hundreds of projects, including ten projects for Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt. It has raised over R40 m.Michelle was previously a Director of a Property Group, and co-owned a jewelry company.\n\nCaptivate Media Training provides TV presentation and speech making courses. She is also a professional life coach.Michelle is a Director of BrandsRock, a specialized marketing company. She is a member of the World Economic Forum and is a consultant for Trade and Tourism in Southern Africa.\n\nIn 1998 Michelle was recognized by Donald Trump the owner of the Miss Universe Organization and presented with The Life Time Achievement Award for her philanthropy work. Michelle resides in Johannesburg with her 11-year-old son Luke, and is currently writing a book about life in the media and memoirs of her travels.\n\nMcLean hosted Miss World 2009, which was won by Miss Gibraltar, Kaiane Aldorino. Kaiane was crowned by Miss World 2008 Ksenia Sukhinova of Russia.\n\nMichelle McLean and former Manchester United goalkeeper Gary Bailey married on 9 March 2013.\n"}
{"id": "53073426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53073426", "title": "Ministry of Education (Rhodesia)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Rhodesia)\n\nThe Ministry of Education was a government ministry of Rhodesia from the country's independence in 1965 to 1979, when the country transitioned from white minority rule to the multiracial democracy of Zimbabwe.\n"}
{"id": "2501424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2501424", "title": "National and University Library of Slovenia", "text": "National and University Library of Slovenia\n\nThe National and University Library (, ), established in 1774, is one of the most important national educational and cultural institutions of Slovenia. It is located in the centre of Ljubljana, between Auersperg Street (), Gentry Street (), and Vega Street (), in a building designed by the architect Jože Plečnik in the years 1930–31 and constructed between 1936–41. The building is considered one of the greatest achievements by Plečnik. According to the \"Mandatory Publications Copy Act\", issuers are bound to submit a copy of each publication they publish to the National and University Library. \n\nIn 2011, the library kept about 1,307,000 books, 8,700 manuscripts, and numerous other text, visual and multimedia resources, and was (in 2010) subscribed to 7900 periodicals. Books and other resources are kept at storehouses at Auersperg Street () and at Leskošek Street (). There have been significant problems with a lack of space and a new modern building has been planned to be built in the vicinity.\n\nAround 1774, after the dissolution of Jesuits, the Lyceum Library formed from the remains of the Jesuit Library and several monastery libraries. It was established with a decree issued by Maria Theresa. The submission of legal deposit copies to the Lyceum library became mandatory with a decree published by the Austrian court in 1807, at first only in Carniola, except for a short period of French administration, when it received copies from all the Illyrian provinces. In 1919, it was named \"State Reference Library\" and started to collect legal deposit copies from the entire Slovenia of the time. In the same year, the University of Ljubljana (the first Slovenian university) was established and the library served its needs too. In 1921, it started to acquire legal deposit copies from the entire Yugoslavia. It was named University Library in 1938.\n\nSince 1791, the library was located in the building of Ljubljana lyceum. In 1919, additional space was provisionally dedicated to it in the building of the Poljane Grammar School. In 1930–31, plans for a new building were created by Jože Plečnik. Initially the project encountered resistance by the Yugoslavian authorities based in Belgrade. However, persistent student protests and demonstrations have been effective, and the new building was erected between 1936 and 1941 by the company of the constructor Matko Curk.\n\nThe library building is the most monumental of Plečnik's works in Slovenia. In its size and form, it models the former Ducal Court (), which was at the same location and was destroyed in the 1895 earthquake. The building has a square ground plan and is a massive block with a court. The front façade, oriented toward Auersperg Street, was designed as a combination of brick and stone embeddings, some of them archaeological remains from the place. It was modelled in the manner of the Italian palazzo, similar to the house of the Italian architect Federico Zuccari. The handles of the main door end with a little head of Pegasus. The symbiosis of the fragile glass and massive walls in other parts of exterior is entirely original. The side walls are oriented towards Gentry Street and Vega Street. The side entrance from Gentry Street is decorated with a sculpture of Moses, created by Lojze Dolinar.\n\nThe interior comprises four wings and the central hallway. Light comes to the main entrance through windows in the main reading room, which is at the top of the main staircase, oriented crosswise. This symbolises the central thought of the building's architecture, \"From the twilight of ignorance to the light of knowledge and enlightenment\". The staircase and its 32 columns are built of the dark Podpeč marble, actually limestone. In addition, there is a small staircase with landings in the form of balconies in each of the four corner of the building. The main reading room, modelled after the industrial aesthetics of the 19th century, is decorated with large chandeliers. It has two glass walls at each side, divided in two symmetric parts by a column and forming part of the side walls of the building. There are wooden tables and chairs. The equipment in main spaces of the building is scarce. The cellar was renovated in 2000 by Marko Mušič, when the building was also additionally protected against earthquakes.\n\nThe library was depicted on the reverse of the 500 tolar banknote, issued in 1992 by the Bank of Slovenia.\n\nA construction of new building of the National and University Library, named \"NUK II\", has been planned since 1987. It will stand on the corner of Zois Street (), Slovene Street (), Roman Street (), and Emona Street (). In a competition in 1989, the proposal put forward by Marko Mušič was chosen. For it and the work in the following years, Mušič was paid over 2 million euros and the country has spent over 30 million euros for NUK II. However, construction was never started. There were several causes for the delay, among them problems in the process of the acquisition of the real estate, the preparation of the documentation necessary to obtain the construction permit and the archaeological excavations of the remains of the Roman castrum Emona that took place in 1990–99 and in 2008. In 2009, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, led by Gregor Golobič, found the original plans outdated and decided that the competition had to be repeated. It was carried out again in late 2011 and early 2012. The evaluating committee, led by Aleš Vodopivec, received 120 proposals, almost half of them from outside Slovenia. In May 2012, the committee chose the proposal submitted by the architectural office \"Bevk Perović arhitekti\" as the best. The new library will be suited to the digital era, and archaeological remains in the area will be integrated in the overall composition. , the date of the beginning of construction and the expected costs were not yet known. The site has been used as a provisional parking lot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4694608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4694608", "title": "Online degree", "text": "Online degree\n\nAn online degree is an academic degree (usually a college degree, but sometimes the term includes high school diplomas and non-degree certificate programs) that can be earned primarily or entirely through the use of an Internet-connected computer, rather than attending college in a traditional campus setting. Improvements in technology, the increasing use of the Internet worldwide, and the need for people to have flexible school schedules while they are working have led to a proliferation of online colleges that award associate, bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees.\n\nThe goal of educational accreditation, according to the United States Department of Education, is to ensure that programs provided by institutions of higher education meet acceptable levels of quality. ENQA, the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education, describes the role of external quality assurance in education as one that \"combines both accountability for the reassurance of the public and an objective and developmental role for enhancing quality in institutions\". In the area of online education, it is important to avoid unaccredited diploma mills that offer fake degrees, as these are unfortunately common. Students seeking valid online degrees should obtain proof of accreditation from an appropriate national or regional accrediting body.\n\nIn the United States, online colleges that are fully accredited have earned a widely recognized form of university accreditation from one of six regional accreditation boards. Each of six geographic regions of the United States has one of these boards, a non-governmental agency that oversees and accredits degree-granting institutions headquartered in their areas. The U.S. Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) also recognize the Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC) as the accrediting organization for distance learning institutions and education programs that offer online degrees.\n\nOutside of the United States, other national and regional standards of accreditation hold, and may be highly supportive of, distance education. For example, the Universitat Oberta de Catalunya, or Open University of Catalonia, has been accredited by AQU, the Agency for Quality Assurance in the Catalan University System (a full member of ENQA), since its inception in 1995, and has been called a \"significant success story\" as \"the world's first continuous, and sustainable, virtual university\". Similarly, in Ireland, the Higher Education and Training Awards Council (HETAC) has accredited a number of online colleges and degrees, e.g. Setanta College.\n\nOnline education enables individuals living with physical disabilities, full-time employees, military personnel, those living abroad, and stay-at-home parents, among others to have access to accredited higher education.\n\nThe perception of the quality of online degrees compared to on-campus degrees varies, but has been increasing in recent years. While most major online colleges are regionally accredited, the public estimation of their quality is in dispute. A national survey of hiring representatives showed that a preference toward on-campus degrees exists. In some instances, hiring executives were unwilling to consider applicants with an online degree. Some experts argue that degrees in certain fields are more accepted online than in others, while some programs are less suited for online-only schools. A major issue for accredited and reputable online programs is the proliferation of proprietary online-only programs that have come under fire in recent years.\n\nA survey by the Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC) found that 100% of employers who responded felt that distance education program graduates performed better on the job as a result of their degree (as compared to their previous performance). Additionally, employers felt that an employee receiving a distance education degree compared favorably, in terms of knowledge learned, to someone with a resident degree. On the other hand, \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\" reported in January 2007 on a Vault Inc. survey that found 55 percent of employers preferred traditional degrees over online ones. Forty-one percent, however, said they would give \"equal consideration to both types of degrees\".\n\nThe Sloan Consortium, an organization funded by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation to maintain and improve the quality of distance education, publishes regular reports on the state of United States distance education. In its 2006 report \"Making the Grade: Online Education in the United States, 2006\", it stated that \"in 2003, 57 percent of academic leaders rated the learning outcomes in online education as the same or superior to those in face-to-face. That number is now 62 percent, a small but noteworthy increase\".\n\nAccording to Steve Lohr's article in the \"New York Times\", a major study was done in 2009 that was funded by the Education Department. The collected research was from a 12-year period and concluded that online learning on average beat face-to-face teaching by a small but statistical margin.\n\nIn many cases, an online degree earned through an accredited public or private university may be effectively indistinguishable from a degree earned in a campus-based program, sometimes referred to as \"brick-and-mortar\" programs. The instruction is often exactly the same, with the online degree containing no special designation. As such the same financial aid packages are often available to online students, which has helped make them more accessible to traditional applicants. An example of an indistinguishable degree program is that offered by Columbia University. Student who earn a degree through the Columbia Video Network (CVN) earn exactly the same type of degree as the campus-based program. The professors, courses, homework, tests, and eventual transcripts and diploma are identical to that of on-campus students. Another example is NYU Tandon Online which offers master's degrees completely online through New York University Tandon School of Engineering.\n\nIn recent years many top universities have been actively expanding their extension and online learning programs in an effort to legitimize the online education arena.\n\nThe National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) conducted a distance education study based on the 2001-2002 academic year at United States 2-year and 4-year degree-granting institutions that were eligible for U.S. federal student aid. The study reported that 56 percent of institutions surveyed offered distance education courses. The study also found that public institutions were more likely to offer distance education than private institutions were.\n\nThe Sloan Consortium, based on data collected from over 2,200 U.S. colleges and universities, reports that nearly 3.2 million students took at least one online course during 2005 (a significant increase over the 2.3 million reported in 2004). According to the same report, about two-thirds of the largest institutions have fully online programs. In 2010, more than 6 million students were taking at least one course online. As of 2013, the number of students enrolled in online courses had risen to over 6.7 million.\n\nAccording to Steve Lohr's article in the \"New York Times\", a major study was done in 2009 that was funded by the Education Department. The collected research was from a 12-year period and concluded that online learning on average beat face-to-face teaching by a small but statistical margin.\n\nUntil 2006, United States students enrolled in online degree programs were not eligible for federal student aid unless at least half of their programs were campus-based (a law established in 1992 and known as the 50-percent rule). In February 2006, that law was repealed, making federal student aid in the form of federal loans, grants, and work-study available in the U.S. for students enrolled in an eligible online degree program at an accredited Title IV-eligible institution.\n\n"}
{"id": "48403776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48403776", "title": "PlagScan", "text": "PlagScan\n\nPlagScan is a plagiarism detection software, mostly used by academic institutions. The software was launched in 2009 by Markus Goldbach and Johannes Knabe. By 2018, PlagScan served more than 1,500,000 single users and over 1,500 organizations such as the University of Zürich, University of Jordan, Auburn University and the Ministry of Education (Austria).\n\nPlagScan compares submissions with web documents, journals and internal archives. Annually, PlagScan checks several million documents for plagiarism.\n\nPlagScan is offered as a Software as a Service and as an on-premise solution.\nUsers can either register as a single user or as an organization. Upon first-time registration, single users receive a free test credit and can purchase additional credits for future submissions, after the completion of a satisfactory trial.\n\nOrganizational users verify the organization’s address prior to using the software. An obligation-free quote can be requested immediately on the website. Organizations can choose from a variety of options and create multiple administrators and groups, for example, to divide different departments within one institution. \n\nAfter scanning a submission for plagiarism, PlagScan provides users with a detailed report that indicates potential plagiarism and lists the matched sources.\n\nPlagScan serves schools and universities worldwide. The software aims to help academic institutions to increase students’ awareness toward plagiarism and academic integrity. \n\nPlagScan also offers its services to the commercial market and publishers. Business users employ the software to improve SEO rankings or secure the proper usage of copyright material. They mostly aim to ensure unique content and its protection. The most common commercial customers are publishers, journalists, advertising agencies and law firms.\n\nPlagScan is compliant to the European General Data Protection Regulation or GDPR, particularly following the German Bundesdatenschutzgesetz (BDSG), data security and copyright regulations. Each user has a variety of options regarding their data and submission settings, for example, whether to keep, delete or include submissions in an internal archive. According to the European data security and privacy laws.\n\nPlagScan’s two-step algorithm was developed in 2008 and compares submissions with millions of web sources and internal archives that users can optionally participate in. The software recognizes plagiarism as soon as at least three consecutive words match a different source. \n\nPlagScan built an indexing tool based on Apache Solr and relies on Microsoft Bing’s search index for web documents.\n\nThe software can be integrated into Learning Management Systems such as Moodle, Canvas, Schoology, etc through an API and LTI integration.\nThe plagiarism blog plagiarismtoday.com ranked PlagScan as the fourth best plagiarism detection software on the market in 2011.\n\nTOPtenreviews ranked PlagScan as best plagiarism checker in 2013.\n\nPlagScan participated in “Captivate,” a three-month acceleration program by the German Accelerator in 2014, promoting German technology startups to enter the U.S. market.\n\nPlagScan was ranked as one of the best information and communication technologies at the European Venture Summit in 2014.\n\nPlagScan came under the spotlight in Spain in September 2018 and created a lot of social debate, having even been discussed in Spanish Congress Of Deputies and Senate, after the Spanish Government used it to check alleged plagiarism on Spanish President Pedro Sanchez's Doctoral Thesis. \n\nThe program allegedly reported a 0.96% match when run by the Spanish Government, however those figures were later corrected by PlagScan CEO, Markus Goldbach to be 21% with the default configuration. Rival software TurnItIn had reported a rate of plagiarism of 15%, several times more than that reported by Spanish Government using PlagScan. \n\nThe company replied \"After applying the software internally – using the default settings and no filters –\nPlagScan cannot confirm this number. An initial scan revealed 21 percent of duplicated content.\nIn order to receive a 0.96 percent result, one must have applied specific settings and actively\ndisqualified sources. PlagScan has reached out to the Moncloa in order to gain an insight on the\ngovernment’s procedure and methodology.\"\n\nThis is an ongoing controversy and different newspapers, depending on their political bias, defend one result or the other.\n\n"}
{"id": "36633198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36633198", "title": "Prison Architect", "text": "Prison Architect\n\nPrison Architect is a private prison construction and management simulation video game developed and published by Introversion Software. It was made available as a crowdfunded paid alpha pre-order on September 25, 2012 with updates scheduled every three to four weeks. With over 2,000,000 copies sold, \"Prison Architect\" made over in pre-order sales for the alpha version. \"Prison Architect\" was an entrant in the 2012 Independent Games Festival.\n\nThe game was available on Steam's Early Access program, and was officially released on October 6, 2015.\n\nThe game is a top-down 2D (with a partially 3D mode) construction and management simulation where the player takes control of building and running a prison. The player is responsible for managing various aspects of their prison including building cells and facilities, planning and connecting utilities, hiring and assigning staff, including a warden, guards, workers, and more. The player needs to recruit staff to unlock more aspects of the game. The player is also responsible for the finance, and keeping their inmates content. The player's role is of both architect and governor with sandbox micromanagement themes such as choosing where to put lights, drains and how they connect together. The player is also able to add workshops to the prison as well as reform programs that reduce the specific prisoner's recidivism rate. The player tells the prisoners what to do indirectly by setting their schedule. The game takes inspiration from \"Theme Hospital\", \"Dungeon Keeper\", and \"Dwarf Fortress\". The player can also allow temperature, gangs, and more to add extra difficulty.\n\nThe first \"official\" (non-beta) release introduced an expanded story mode as a tutorial and an escape mode which depicts the player as prisoner with the goal of escape, causing as much trouble as possible.\n\n\"Prison Architect\" was developed by British video game studio Introversion Software. The game was announced in October 2011, shortly after Introversion postponed the development of their bank heist simulator game \"Subversion\". The game was first made available on September 25, 2012 as an Alpha version. The game was then crowdfunded with pre-orders, making over in two weeks with close to 8,000 sales. Developer's co-founder Mark Morris explains that independent crowd-funding has allowed them to have no time limit on the Alpha version, as well as no fees associated with crowd-funding platforms. As of December 2013, the developers have raised over .\n\nIntroversion Software announced that a mobile version of the game is in development and the PC version of the game officially launched on October 6, 2015. In Introversion's alpha 30 video, they confirmed \"Prison Architect\" was coming to iOS and Android in October 2015 with the games official release. The developers posted a tweet on March 21, 2013, that \"I guess \"Prison Architect\" won't be coming to iPad then! YOUR LOSS APPLE\", with a link to a Pocket Gamer article. It was later revealed by the developer that the original direct port did not impress Apple. Due to the concern of it might not be featured on AppStore front page the project was set aside for a while. The effort to bring \"Prison Architect\" to mobile devices was resumed by Paradox Interactive as the publisher and co-developed with Tag Games. The tablet version for iPad and Android tablet was launched on May 25, 2017. Introversion announced on January 20, 2016 that Double Eleven would be bringing the game to Xbox 360, Xbox One and PlayStation 4 platforms. The console versions were released on June 28, 2016. The Xbox edition of the game was released to subscribers to Xbox Live under the Games With Gold program in September 2018.\n\nAs of September 2018, the latest version is Update 16, released on September 4, 2018. Officially introducing multiplayer mode to the game, allowing up to 8 players to cooperatively build and manage a prison.\n\nUpon its full release, the game received positive reviews, scoring 83 out of 100 on review aggregator site Metacritic. IGN awarded it a score of 8.3 out of 10, saying \"Prison Architect is one of the most in-depth, satisfying builder games in ages, if you can get past the initiation.\" On April 7, 2016, Prison Architect won the 2016 BAFTA award in the \"Persistent Game\" category. Prison Architect was also nominated for the 2016 BAFTA award in the \"British Game\" category, which was won by .\n\nAs of September 26, 2015, \"Prison Architect\" had grossed over $19 million in sales, and over 1.25 million units of the game had been sold. By the end of August 2016 when the final version '2.0' of Prison Architect was released, the number of individual players was given as two million.\n\n"}
{"id": "26024591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26024591", "title": "Puerto Rico Professional College of Engineers and Land Surveyors", "text": "Puerto Rico Professional College of Engineers and Land Surveyors\n\nThe Professional College of Engineers and Land Surveyors of Puerto Rico — (CIAPR)— is the professional association mandated by law that groups all engineers and land surveyors that call, present, or represent themselves as 'engineers' or 'land surveyors' in Puerto Rico. As with many other countries, the profession of engineering and land surveying is both regulated and licensed in Puerto Rico; while another entity, namely the Puerto Rico Examining Board of Engineers and Land Surveyors, regulates the profession and emits its corresponding licenses, the Puerto Rico Annotated Codes and Act 173 of 1988 requires that all licensed engineers and land surveyors in Puerto Rico must be members of the College. The quasi-public nonprofit corporation was established on May 15, 1938, through Act 319 of 1938 in order to bring together professionals with the right to practice engineering, architecture and surveying in Puerto Rico.\n\nThe primary mission of the Professional College is to promote the protection and development of engineering and surveying to promote ethics and excellence in professional practice for the benefit of referees and the people of Puerto Rico.\n\nThe Professional College is composed primarily of its governing board, which in turn is composed of the presidents and delegates elected by the enrollment of the schools in their respective annual meetings, and delegates elected by their chapters are registered for their assemblies year. Also part of the governing board are the president, a vice-president for engineering and a vice-president for surveyors, elected at the annual meeting.\nThe professional college institutes are semi-autonomous bodies, which represent the various professional bodies board of government or publicly.ico.\nIn addition to these agencies, the Professional College has about twenty permanent committees and ad hoc committees designated for specific projects.\nThe college also has an independent disciplinary tribunal that is used in cases of violations of professional conduct or ethics, or disputes between colleges.\n\nProfessionals who have served as Presidents of CIAPR include:\n\n\nThe CIAPR has eight Institutes:\n\n\nThe CIAPR has eleven Regional Chapters:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24769083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24769083", "title": "RMIT School of Accounting", "text": "RMIT School of Accounting\n\nThe RMIT School of Accounting is an Australian university business school located in Melbourne, Victoria, which is responsible for undergraduate and postgraduate education and research in accounting at RMIT University. The School was established in 1943 and its name was changed to the School of Accountancy (later Accounting) in 1948.\n\nThe first accountancy classes at RMIT were taught by A. G. Robinson, an accountant in private practice, who had conducted evening classes at his offices since the early 1930s to prepare students for the examinations of the various accountancy institutes of the time (predecessors to the Australian Society of Accountants; now CPA Australia). In 1934, Robinson approached the President of the Melbourne Technical College (as RMIT was then known), Frank Ellis, to transfer his existing classes to the College. Robinson began teaching classes at the College in March 1935 and by the end of 1936 had graduated over 40 qualified accountants.\nFollowing an objection to this arrangement by the Victorian Department of Education in 1941, E. J. Edwards was then placed in charge of teaching accountancy at the College. Edwards established a Department of Commerce in 1943, which was advertising classes in managerial and industrial organisation and accountancy by September that year. A four-year diploma course in accountancy was developed in 1944, which admitted graduates to the Commonwealth Institute of Accountants, and was administered by the College and the Institute. The Department's name was changed to the School of Accountancy in 1948 due to the majority of it studies being in that field.\n\nDuring this time the Department grew rapidly and, by 1948, had an enrolment of 1525 students in its accountancy diploma as well as its preparatory classes for the examinations of the Bankers' Institute of Australasia, Chartered Institute of Secretaries, Companies Auditors' Board and Municipal Auditors' Board. In 1952, the various accountancy institutes of the time, including the Commonwealth Institute of Accountants, amalgamated to form the Australian Society of Accountants and introduced a new joint examiner's board at the School which later served as a model for other schools in Victoria as well as other states of Australia.\n\nIn 1950, the School was approached by the Real Estate and Stock Institute of Victoria (now REIV) to develop a certificate course in real estate management and valuation and, by 1954, nearly all training for land valuers in Victoria was being conducted by the School. In 1954, the School was approached by the Institute of Public Administration to develop a certificate course in public administration which was later expanded to a diploma in 1956. Both of these courses would later break away from the School of Accounting to form the predecessors to RMIT's School of Global, Urban and Social Studies and School of Property, Construction and Project Management.\n\nRMIT began to accredit its own courses in the School of Accounting after the Australian Society of Accountants abandoned its policy of staged examination, in favour of admitting graduates from appropriate degrees and diplomas, in the 1960s—like other professional societies of the time in Australia. \n\nThe School offers bachelor's and master's degree courses in accounting and financial services programs and a Doctorate of Philosophy in accounting. In 2016, the School was ranked among the top 100 in the world for accounting and finance subjects in the QS World University Rankings.\n\nThe School of Accounting hosts two annual conferences: the RMIT Accounting for Sustainability Conference in May and RMIT Accounting Educators Conference in November.\n\n\nNotes\nWorks\n\n"}
{"id": "10578084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10578084", "title": "Richard Courtney", "text": "Richard Courtney\n\nRichard Courtney, drama teacher, theatre scholar and leading international expert in children's drama, was born in Newmarket, England on 4 June 1927 and was educated at Culford School and the University of Leeds. \n\nBetween 1948 and 1952 Courtney studied at Leeds with Shakespeare scholar G. Wilson Knight and Pirandello scholar and translator Frederick May. While there, he directed and appeared in a number of theatre productions and upon graduation continued this endeavor with the Arts Theatre in Leeds and the Rep Theatre in Yorkshire. \n\nOn 21 December 1953, he married Rosemary Gale. \n\nFrom 1956 to 1960, he played various roles on BBC radio. Between 1952 and 1959 he taught drama at schools in England before becoming Senior Lecturer in Drama at Trent Park College of Education in 1959, a position he would retain until 1967. From 1968 to 1971, he was Associate Professor of Theatre at the University of Victoria, British Columbia and was Professor of Drama from 1971 to 1974 at the University of Calgary. While in Calgary, Courtney also directed theatre and served as President of the Canadian Child and Youth Drama Association as well as being an advisor to the Minister of Culture, Andre Fortier. \n\nIn 1974, he was appointed Professor of the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education and the University of Toronto Graduate Centre for Drama. At the latter he worked with Peter McLaren, one of the leading architects of critical pedagogy. He maintained these positions until his retirement in 1995. Dr. Robert Gardner, one of Professor Courtney's doctoral students, remembered his contact with Richard during the eighties. \"Professor Courtney was considered a rather eccentric figure. He seemed constantly dressed in green. He had a full beard and often wore a wide brimmed hat. His work, Play, Drama, and Thought, had earned him an international reputation and students from all over the world sought him out. He was an incredibly kind and patient teacher and he delighted in assisting students with slightly off-beat thesis proposals. He certainly was one of the most popular professors at the Ontario Institutes for Studies in Education. Although he was a modest man, it was clear to many of his doctoral candidates that he was a gifted teacher and scholar.\"\n\nIn 1975, he traveled to New Mexico to research the dramatic rituals of the Hopi and the Navajo Nations. He visited the University of Melbourne in 1970 and 1974 and was a Visiting Fellow in the Spring of 1979 at the Melbourne State College, Victoria. \n\nAbove all Richard Courtney was a well-respected drama theorist. He wrote extensively on the subject and has roughly one hundred published works to his name. \n\nIn addition, he was also responsible for numerous reports and journal articles touching on such subjects as educational drama, drama therapy, arts education, criticism and the history of drama. Courtney lectured extensively in Australia, Canada, the UK and the US. He was President of the Canadian Conference of the Arts, 1973-1976 and Chairman of the National Inquiry into Arts and Education in Canada, 1975-1979. \n\nRichard Courtney died on Saltspring Island, British Columbia on 16 August 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2286871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2286871", "title": "Ruth Hayman", "text": "Ruth Hayman\n\nRuth Hayman (1913 - 1981) was a lawyer and anti-apartheid campaigner. She was one of the first women in South Africa to qualify as an attorney. Through the Black Sash organisation, Hayman offered free legal advice to many people, usually women, who had approached the Black Sash Advice Centre in Johannesburg, and often appeared herself in court to represent them. She also defended the anti-apartheid activists Walter and Adelaine Hain, parents of the British Cabinet Minister Peter Hain.\n\nHer activities brought her into direct opposition with the National Party government, and on 22 April 1966 she was served with a \"banning order\" under the Suppression of Communism Act and placed under house arrest. \n\n\"This banning was, according to Sydney Kentridge,\n'inexplicable save on the assumption that it was a punishment for her\nprofessional work' ('Legal Aid and Political Trials' in \"Legal Aid in South Africa\" (1974) 215). The Transvaal Law Society refused to come to her aid. This sent out a clear message to attorneys.\"\nHayman moved to London, with her husband, Mervyn Lazar, in 1968, and was a pioneer in the field of teaching English as a second language. In 1977 she was one of the founders of the National Association for the Teaching of English as a Second Language to Adults. Now renamed as NATECLA. The Ruth Hayman Trust, set up in her memory, gives small personal grants to support the education and training of adults who live in the United Kingdom and whose first language is not English.\n\nShe was born in Johannesburg, South Africa in February 1913, and died in London, England in October 1981.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3205100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3205100", "title": "Self-archiving", "text": "Self-archiving\n\nSelf-archiving is the act of (the author's) depositing a free copy of an electronic document online in order to provide open access to it. The term usually refers to the self-archiving of peer-reviewed research journal and conference articles, as well as theses and book chapters, deposited in the author's own institutional repository or open archive for the purpose of maximizing its accessibility, usage and citation impact. The term green open access has become common in recent years, distinguishing this approach from gold open access, where the journal itself makes the articles publicly available without charge to the reader.\n\nSelf-archiving was first explicitly proposed as a universal practice by Stevan Harnad in his 1994 online posting \"Subversive Proposal\" \n(later published in \"Association of Research Libraries\") although computer scientists had been practicing self-archiving in anonymous FTP archives since at least the 1980s (see CiteSeer) and physicists had been doing it since the early 1990s on the web (see arXiv).\n\nThe concept of \"green open access\" was coined in 2004 to describe a “mode of publishing in non open access journal but also self archiving it in an open access archive”. Different drafts of a paper may be self-archived, such as the internal non-peer-reviewed version, or the peer-reviewed version published in a journal. Green open access through self-archiving was initially enabled through institutional or disciplinary repositories, as a growing number of universities adopted policies to encourage self-archiving. Self-archiving repositories do not peer-review articles, though they may hold copies of otherwise peer-reviewed articles. Self-archiving repositories also expect that the author who self-archives has the necessary rights to do so, as copyright may have been transferred to a publisher. Therefore it may only be possible to self-archive the preprint of the article.\n\nWhereas the right to self-archive postprints is often a copyright matter (if the rights have been transferred to the publisher), the right to self-archive preprints is merely a question of journal policy.\n\nA 2003 study analysed 80 journal publishers‘ copyright agreements and found that 90 percent of publishers asked for some form of copyright transfer and only 42.5 percent allowed self-archiving in some form. In 2014 the SHERPA/Romeo project recorded that of 1,275 publishers 70 percent allowed for some form of self-archiving, with 62 percent allowing both pre and postprint self-archiving of published papers. In 2017 the project recorded that of 2,375 publishers 41 percent allowed pre and postprint to be self-archived. 33 percent only allowed the self-archiving of the postprint, meaning the final draft post-refereeing. 6 percent of publishers only allowed self-archiving of the preprint, meaning the pre-refereeing draft.\n\nPublishers such as Cambridge University Press or the American Geophysical Union, endorse self-archiving of the final published version of the article, not just peer-reviewed final drafts.\n\nLocations for self-archiving include institutional repositories, subject-based repositories, personal websites, and social networking websites that target researchers. Some publishers attempt to impose embargoes on self-archiving; embargo-lengths can be from 6–12 months or longer after the date of publication (see SHERPA/RoMEO). For embargoed deposits some institutional repositories have a request-a-copy Button with which users can request and authors can provide a single copy with one click each during the embargo.\n\nSocial reference management software websites such as Mendeley, Academia.edu, and ResearchGate facilitate sharing between researchers; however, these services are often subject to criticism for using scholars' contributions for commercial purposes as well as for copyright violation. They are also targeted by publishers for copyright compliance, such as when Elsevier (which purchased Mendeley) issued Digital Millennium Copyright Act takedown notices to Academia.edu for hosting scientific papers. Social networking services also do not fulfill the requirements of many self-archiving policies from grant funders, journals, and institutions.\n\nIn 2013 Germany created a legal basis for green open access by amending a secondary publication right into German copyright which gives scientists and researchers the legal right to self-archive their publications on the internet, even if they have agreed to transfer all exploitation rights to a publisher. The secondary publication right applies to results of mainly publicly funded research, 12 month after the first publication, cannot be waived, and the author’s version is self-archived.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42799", "title": "Speech synthesis", "text": "Speech synthesis\n\nSpeech synthesis is the artificial production of human speech. A computer system used for this purpose is called a speech computer or speech synthesizer, and can be implemented in software or hardware products. A text-to-speech (TTS) system converts normal language text into speech; other systems render symbolic linguistic representations like phonetic transcriptions into speech.\n\nSynthesized speech can be created by concatenating pieces of recorded speech that are stored in a database. Systems differ in the size of the stored speech units; a system that stores phones or diphones provides the largest output range, but may lack clarity. For specific usage domains, the storage of entire words or sentences allows for high-quality output. Alternatively, a synthesizer can incorporate a model of the vocal tract and other human voice characteristics to create a completely \"synthetic\" voice output.\n\nThe quality of a speech synthesizer is judged by its similarity to the human voice and by its ability to be understood clearly. An intelligible text-to-speech program allows people with visual impairments or reading disabilities to listen to written words on a home computer. Many computer operating systems have included speech synthesizers since the early 1990s.\n\nA text-to-speech system (or \"engine\") is composed of two parts: a front-end and a back-end. The front-end has two major tasks. First, it converts raw text containing symbols like numbers and abbreviations into the equivalent of written-out words. This process is often called \"text normalization\", \"pre-processing\", or \"tokenization\". The front-end then assigns phonetic transcriptions to each word, and divides and marks the text into prosodic units, like phrases, clauses, and sentences. The process of assigning phonetic transcriptions to words is called \"text-to-phoneme\" or \"grapheme-to-phoneme\" conversion. Phonetic transcriptions and prosody information together make up the symbolic linguistic representation that is output by the front-end. The back-end—often referred to as the \"synthesizer\"—then converts the symbolic linguistic representation into sound. In certain systems, this part includes the computation of the \"target prosody\" (pitch contour, phoneme durations), which is then imposed on the output speech.\n\nLong before the invention of electronic signal processing, some people tried to build machines to emulate human speech. Some early legends of the existence of \"Brazen Heads\" involved Pope Silvester II (d. 1003 AD), Albertus Magnus (1198–1280), and Roger Bacon (1214–1294).\n\nIn 1779 the German-Danish scientist Christian Gottlieb Kratzenstein won the first prize in a competition announced by the Russian Imperial Academy of Sciences and Arts for models he built of the human vocal tract that could produce the five long vowel sounds (in notation: , , , and ). There followed the bellows-operated \"acoustic-mechanical speech machine\" of Wolfgang von Kempelen of Pressburg, Hungary, described in a 1791 paper. This machine added models of the tongue and lips, enabling it to produce consonants as well as vowels. In 1837, Charles Wheatstone produced a \"speaking machine\" based on von Kempelen's design, and in 1846, Joseph Faber exhibited the \"Euphonia\". In 1923 Paget resurrected Wheatstone's design.\n\nIn the 1930s Bell Labs developed the vocoder, which automatically analyzed speech into its fundamental tones and resonances. From his work on the vocoder, Homer Dudley developed a keyboard-operated voice-synthesizer called The Voder (Voice Demonstrator), which he exhibited at the 1939 New York World's Fair.\n\nDr. Franklin S. Cooper and his colleagues at Haskins Laboratories built the Pattern playback in the late 1940s and completed it in 1950. There were several different versions of this hardware device; only one currently survives. The machine converts pictures of the acoustic patterns of speech in the form of a spectrogram back into sound. Using this device, Alvin Liberman and colleagues discovered acoustic cues for the perception of phonetic segments (consonants and vowels).\n\nIn 1975 MUSA was released, and was one of the first Speech Synthesis systems. It consisted of a stand-alone computer hardware and a specialized software that enabled it to read Italian. A second version, released in 1978, was also able to sing Italian in an \"a cappella\" style.\n\nDominant systems in the 1980s and 1990s were the DECtalk system, based largely on the work of Dennis Klatt at MIT, and the Bell Labs system; the latter was one of the first multilingual language-independent systems, making extensive use of natural language processing methods.\n\nEarly electronic speech-synthesizers sounded robotic and were often barely intelligible. The quality of synthesized speech has steadily improved, but output from contemporary speech synthesis systems remains clearly distinguishable from actual human speech.\n\nKurzweil predicted in 2005 that as the cost-performance ratio caused speech synthesizers to become cheaper and more accessible, more people would benefit from the use of text-to-speech programs.\n\nThe first computer-based speech-synthesis systems originated in the late 1950s. Noriko Umeda \"et al.\" developed the first general English text-to-speech system in 1968 at the Electrotechnical Laboratory, Japan. In 1961 physicist John Larry Kelly, Jr and his colleague Louis Gerstman used an IBM 704 computer to synthesize speech, an event among the most prominent in the history of Bell Labs. Kelly's voice recorder synthesizer (vocoder) recreated the song \"Daisy Bell\", with musical accompaniment from Max Mathews. Coincidentally, Arthur C. Clarke was visiting his friend and colleague John Pierce at the Bell Labs Murray Hill facility. Clarke was so impressed by the demonstration that he used it in the climactic scene of his screenplay for his novel \"\", where the HAL 9000 computer sings the same song as astronaut Dave Bowman puts it to sleep. Despite the success of purely electronic speech synthesis, research into mechanical speech-synthesizers continues.\n\nHandheld electronics featuring speech synthesis began emerging in the 1970s. One of the first was the Telesensory Systems Inc. (TSI) \"Speech+\" portable calculator for the blind in 1976. Other devices had primarily educational purposes, such as the Speak & Spell toy produced by Texas Instruments in 1978. Fidelity released a speaking version of its electronic chess computer in 1979. The first video game to feature speech synthesis was the 1980 shoot 'em up arcade game, \"Stratovox\" (known in Japan as \"Speak & Rescue\"), from Sun Electronics. The first personal computer game with speech synthesis was \"Manbiki Shoujo\" (\"Shoplifting Girl\"), released in 1980 for the PET 2001, for which the game's developer, Hiroshi Suzuki, developed a \"zero cross\" programming technique to produce a synthesized speech waveform. Another early example, the arcade version of \"Berzerk\", also dates from 1980. The Milton Bradley Company produced the first multi-player electronic game using voice synthesis, \"Milton\", in the same year.\n\nThe most important qualities of a speech synthesis system are \"naturalness\" and \"intelligibility\". Naturalness describes how closely the output sounds like human speech, while intelligibility is the ease with which the output is understood. The ideal speech synthesizer is both natural and intelligible. Speech synthesis systems usually try to maximize both characteristics.\n\nThe two primary technologies generating synthetic speech waveforms are \"concatenative synthesis\" and \"formant synthesis\". Each technology has strengths and weaknesses, and the intended uses of a synthesis system will typically determine which approach is used.\n\nConcatenative synthesis is based on the concatenation (or stringing together) of segments of recorded speech. Generally, concatenative synthesis produces the most natural-sounding synthesized speech. However, differences between natural variations in speech and the nature of the automated techniques for segmenting the waveforms sometimes result in audible glitches in the output. There are three main sub-types of concatenative synthesis.\n\nUnit selection synthesis uses large databases of recorded speech. During database creation, each recorded utterance is segmented into some or all of the following: individual phones, diphones, half-phones, syllables, morphemes, words, phrases, and sentences. Typically, the division into segments is done using a specially modified speech recognizer set to a \"forced alignment\" mode with some manual correction afterward, using visual representations such as the waveform and spectrogram. An index of the units in the speech database is then created based on the segmentation and acoustic parameters like the fundamental frequency (pitch), duration, position in the syllable, and neighboring phones. At run time, the desired target utterance is created by determining the best chain of candidate units from the database (unit selection). This process is typically achieved using a specially weighted decision tree.\n\nUnit selection provides the greatest naturalness, because it applies only a small amount of digital signal processing (DSP) to the recorded speech. DSP often makes recorded speech sound less natural, although some systems use a small amount of signal processing at the point of concatenation to smooth the waveform. The output from the best unit-selection systems is often indistinguishable from real human voices, especially in contexts for which the TTS system has been tuned. However, maximum naturalness typically require unit-selection speech databases to be very large, in some systems ranging into the gigabytes of recorded data, representing dozens of hours of speech. Also, unit selection algorithms have been known to select segments from a place that results in less than ideal synthesis (e.g. minor words become unclear) even when a better choice exists in the database. Recently, researchers have proposed various automated methods to detect unnatural segments in unit-selection speech synthesis systems.\n\nDiphone synthesis uses a minimal speech database containing all the diphones (sound-to-sound transitions) occurring in a language. The number of diphones depends on the phonotactics of the language: for example, Spanish has about 800 diphones, and German about 2500. In diphone synthesis, only one example of each diphone is contained in the speech database. At runtime, the target prosody of a sentence is superimposed on these minimal units by means of digital signal processing techniques such as linear predictive coding, PSOLA or MBROLA. or more recent techniques such as pitch modification in the source domain using discrete cosine transform Diphone synthesis suffers from the sonic glitches of concatenative synthesis and the robotic-sounding nature of formant synthesis, and has few of the advantages of either approach other than small size. As such, its use in commercial applications is declining, although it continues to be used in research because there are a number of freely available software implementations.\n\nDomain-specific synthesis concatenates prerecorded words and phrases to create complete utterances. It is used in applications where the variety of texts the system will output is limited to a particular domain, like transit schedule announcements or weather reports. The technology is very simple to implement, and has been in commercial use for a long time, in devices like talking clocks and calculators. The level of naturalness of these systems can be very high because the variety of sentence types is limited, and they closely match the prosody and intonation of the original recordings.\n\nBecause these systems are limited by the words and phrases in their databases, they are not general-purpose and can only synthesize the combinations of words and phrases with which they have been preprogrammed. The blending of words within naturally spoken language however can still cause problems unless the many variations are taken into account. For example, in non-rhotic dialects of English the \"r\" in words like \"clear\" is usually only pronounced when the following word has a vowel as its first letter (e.g. \"clear out\" is realized as ). Likewise in French, many final consonants become no longer silent if followed by a word that begins with a vowel, an effect called liaison. This alternation cannot be reproduced by a simple word-concatenation system, which would require additional complexity to be context-sensitive.\n\nFormant synthesis does not use human speech samples at runtime. Instead, the synthesized speech output is created using additive synthesis and an acoustic model (physical modelling synthesis). Parameters such as fundamental frequency, voicing, and noise levels are varied over time to create a waveform of artificial speech. This method is sometimes called \"rules-based synthesis\"; however, many concatenative systems also have rules-based components.\nMany systems based on formant synthesis technology generate artificial, robotic-sounding speech that would never be mistaken for human speech. However, maximum naturalness is not always the goal of a speech synthesis system, and formant synthesis systems have advantages over concatenative systems. Formant-synthesized speech can be reliably intelligible, even at very high speeds, avoiding the acoustic glitches that commonly plague concatenative systems. High-speed synthesized speech is used by the visually impaired to quickly navigate computers using a screen reader. Formant synthesizers are usually smaller programs than concatenative systems because they do not have a database of speech samples. They can therefore be used in embedded systems, where memory and microprocessor power are especially limited. Because formant-based systems have complete control of all aspects of the output speech, a wide variety of prosodies and intonations can be output, conveying not just questions and statements, but a variety of emotions and tones of voice.\n\nExamples of non-real-time but highly accurate intonation control in formant synthesis include the work done in the late 1970s for the Texas Instruments toy Speak & Spell, and in the early 1980s Sega arcade machines and in many Atari, Inc. arcade games using the TMS5220 LPC Chips. Creating proper intonation for these projects was painstaking, and the results have yet to be matched by real-time text-to-speech interfaces.\n\nFormant synthesis was implemented in hardware in the Yamaha FS1R synthesizer, but the speech aspect of formants was never realized in the synthesis. It was capable of short, several-second formant sequences which could speak a single phrase, but since the MIDI control interface was so restrictive live speech was an impossibility.\n\nArticulatory synthesis refers to computational techniques for synthesizing speech based on models of the human vocal tract and the articulation processes occurring there. The first articulatory synthesizer regularly used for laboratory experiments was developed at Haskins Laboratories in the mid-1970s by Philip Rubin, Tom Baer, and Paul Mermelstein. This synthesizer, known as ASY, was based on vocal tract models developed at Bell Laboratories in the 1960s and 1970s by Paul Mermelstein, Cecil Coker, and colleagues.\n\nUntil recently, articulatory synthesis models have not been incorporated into commercial speech synthesis systems. A notable exception is the NeXT-based system originally developed and marketed by Trillium Sound Research, a spin-off company of the University of Calgary, where much of the original research was conducted. Following the demise of the various incarnations of NeXT (started by Steve Jobs in the late 1980s and merged with Apple Computer in 1997), the Trillium software was published under the GNU General Public License, with work continuing as gnuspeech. The system, first marketed in 1994, provides full articulatory-based text-to-speech conversion using a waveguide or transmission-line analog of the human oral and nasal tracts controlled by Carré's \"distinctive region model\".\n\nMore recent synthesizers, developed by Jorge C. Lucero and colleagues, incorporate models of vocal fold biomechanics, glottal aerodynamics and acoustic wave propagation in the bronqui, traquea, nasal and oral cavities, and thus constitute full systems of physics-based speech simulation.\n\nHMM-based synthesis is a synthesis method based on hidden Markov models, also called Statistical Parametric Synthesis. In this system, the frequency spectrum (vocal tract), fundamental frequency (voice source), and duration (prosody) of speech are modeled simultaneously by HMMs. Speech waveforms are generated from HMMs themselves based on the maximum likelihood criterion.\n\nSinewave synthesis is a technique for synthesizing speech by replacing the formants (main bands of energy) with pure tone whistles.\n\nDeep learning-based synthesizers use Deep Neural Networks (DNN), which are trained on recorded speech data.\nSome DNN-based speech synthesizers are approaching the quality of the human voice.\nExamples are WaveNet by DeepMind, Tacotron by Google\nand Deep Voice (which uses the WaveNet technology) from Baidu.\n\nThe process of normalizing text is rarely straightforward. Texts are full of heteronyms, numbers, and abbreviations that all require expansion into a phonetic representation. There are many spellings in English which are pronounced differently based on context. For example, \"My latest project is to learn how to better project my voice\" contains two pronunciations of \"project\".\n\nMost text-to-speech (TTS) systems do not generate semantic representations of their input texts, as processes for doing so are unreliable, poorly understood, and computationally ineffective. As a result, various heuristic techniques are used to guess the proper way to disambiguate homographs, like examining neighboring words and using statistics about frequency of occurrence.\n\nRecently TTS systems have begun to use HMMs (discussed above) to generate \"parts of speech\" to aid in disambiguating homographs. This technique is quite successful for many cases such as whether \"read\" should be pronounced as \"red\" implying past tense, or as \"reed\" implying present tense. Typical error rates when using HMMs in this fashion are usually below five percent. These techniques also work well for most European languages, although access to required training corpora is frequently difficult in these languages.\n\nDeciding how to convert numbers is another problem that TTS systems have to address. It is a simple programming challenge to convert a number into words (at least in English), like \"1325\" becoming \"one thousand three hundred twenty-five.\" However, numbers occur in many different contexts; \"1325\" may also be read as \"one three two five\", \"thirteen twenty-five\" or \"thirteen hundred and twenty five\". A TTS system can often infer how to expand a number based on surrounding words, numbers, and punctuation, and sometimes the system provides a way to specify the context if it is ambiguous. Roman numerals can also be read differently depending on context. For example, \"Henry VIII\" reads as \"Henry the Eighth\", while \"Chapter VIII\" reads as \"Chapter Eight\".\n\nSimilarly, abbreviations can be ambiguous. For example, the abbreviation \"in\" for \"inches\" must be differentiated from the word \"in\", and the address \"12 St John St.\" uses the same abbreviation for both \"Saint\" and \"Street\". TTS systems with intelligent front ends can make educated guesses about ambiguous abbreviations, while others provide the same result in all cases, resulting in nonsensical (and sometimes comical) outputs, such as \"co-operation\" being rendered as \"company operation\".\n\nSpeech synthesis systems use two basic approaches to determine the pronunciation of a word based on its spelling, a process which is often called text-to-phoneme or grapheme-to-phoneme conversion (phoneme is the term used by linguists to describe distinctive sounds in a language). The simplest approach to text-to-phoneme conversion is the dictionary-based approach, where a large dictionary containing all the words of a language and their correct pronunciations is stored by the program. Determining the correct pronunciation of each word is a matter of looking up each word in the dictionary and replacing the spelling with the pronunciation specified in the dictionary. The other approach is rule-based, in which pronunciation rules are applied to words to determine their pronunciations based on their spellings. This is similar to the \"sounding out\", or synthetic phonics, approach to learning reading.\n\nEach approach has advantages and drawbacks. The dictionary-based approach is quick and accurate, but completely fails if it is given a word which is not in its dictionary. As dictionary size grows, so too does the memory space requirements of the synthesis system. On the other hand, the rule-based approach works on any input, but the complexity of the rules grows substantially as the system takes into account irregular spellings or pronunciations. (Consider that the word \"of\" is very common in English, yet is the only word in which the letter \"f\" is pronounced .) As a result, nearly all speech synthesis systems use a combination of these approaches.\n\nLanguages with a phonemic orthography have a very regular writing system, and the prediction of the pronunciation of words based on their spellings is quite successful. Speech synthesis systems for such languages often use the rule-based method extensively, resorting to dictionaries only for those few words, like foreign names and borrowings, whose pronunciations are not obvious from their spellings. On the other hand, speech synthesis systems for languages like English, which have extremely irregular spelling systems, are more likely to rely on dictionaries, and to use rule-based methods only for unusual words, or words that aren't in their dictionaries.\n\nThe consistent evaluation of speech synthesis systems may be difficult because of a lack of universally agreed objective evaluation criteria. Different organizations often use different speech data. The quality of speech synthesis systems also depends on the quality of the production technique (which may involve analogue or digital recording) and on the facilities used to replay the speech. Evaluating speech synthesis systems has therefore often been compromised by differences between production techniques and replay facilities.\n\nSince 2005, however, some researchers have started to evaluate speech synthesis systems using a common speech dataset.\n\nA study in the journal \"Speech Communication\" by Amy Drahota and colleagues at the University of Portsmouth, UK, reported that listeners to voice recordings could determine, at better than chance levels, whether or not the speaker was smiling. It was suggested that identification of the vocal features that signal emotional content may be used to help make synthesized speech sound more natural. One of the related issues is modification of the pitch contour of the sentence, depending upon whether it is an affirmative, interrogative or exclamatory sentence. One of the techniques for pitch modification uses discrete cosine transform in the source domain (linear prediction residual). Such pitch synchronous pitch modification techniques need a priori pitch marking of the synthesis speech database using techniques such as epoch extraction using dynamic plosion index applied on the integrated linear prediction residual of the voiced regions of speech.\n\n\nPopular systems offering speech synthesis as a built-in capability.\n\nThe Mattel Intellivision game console offered the Intellivoice Voice Synthesis module in 1982. It included the SP0256 Narrator speech synthesizer chip on a removable cartridge. The Narrator had 2kB of Read-Only Memory (ROM), and this was utilized to store a database of generic words that could be combined to make phrases in Intellivision games. Since the Orator chip could also accept speech data from external memory, any additional words or phrases needed could be stored inside the cartridge itself. The data consisted of strings of analog-filter coefficients to modify the behavior of the chip's synthetic vocal-tract model, rather than simple digitized samples.\n\nAlso released in 1982, Software Automatic Mouth was the first commercial all-software voice synthesis program. It was later used as the basis for Macintalk. The program was available for non-Macintosh Apple computers (including the Apple II, and the Lisa), various Atari models and the Commodore 64. The Apple version preferred additional hardware that contained DACs, although it could instead use the computer's one-bit audio output (with the addition of much distortion) if the card was not present. The Atari made use of the embedded POKEY audio chip. Speech playback on the Atari normally disabled interrupt requests and shut down the ANTIC chip during vocal output. The audible output is extremely distorted speech when the screen is on. The Commodore 64 made use of the 64's embedded SID audio chip.\n\nArguably, the first speech system integrated into an operating system was the 1400XL/1450XL personal computers designed by Atari, Inc. using the Votrax SC01 chip in 1983. The 1400XL/1450XL computers used a Finite State Machine to enable World English Spelling text-to-speech synthesis. Unfortunately, the 1400XL/1450XL personal computers never shipped in quantity.\n\nThe Atari ST computers were sold with \"stspeech.tos\" on floppy disk.\n\nThe first speech system integrated into an operating system that shipped in quantity was Apple Computer's MacInTalk. The software was licensed from 3rd party developers Joseph Katz and Mark Barton (later, SoftVoice, Inc.) and was featured during the 1984 introduction of the Macintosh computer. This January demo required 512 kilobytes of RAM memory. As a result, it could not run in the 128 kilobytes of RAM the first Mac actually shipped with. So, the demo was accomplished with a prototype 512k Mac, although those in attendance were not told of this and the synthesis demo created considerable excitement for the Macintosh. In the early 1990s Apple expanded its capabilities offering system wide text-to-speech support. With the introduction of faster PowerPC-based computers they included higher quality voice sampling. Apple also introduced speech recognition into its systems which provided a fluid command set. More recently, Apple has added sample-based voices. Starting as a curiosity, the speech system of Apple Macintosh has evolved into a fully supported program, PlainTalk, for people with vision problems. VoiceOver was for the first time featured in 2005 in Mac OS X Tiger (10.4). During 10.4 (Tiger) and first releases of 10.5 (Leopard) there was only one standard voice shipping with Mac OS X. Starting with 10.6 (Snow Leopard), the user can choose out of a wide range list of multiple voices. VoiceOver voices feature the taking of realistic-sounding breaths between sentences, as well as improved clarity at high read rates over PlainTalk. Mac OS X also includes say, a command-line based application that converts text to audible speech. The AppleScript Standard Additions includes a say verb that allows a script to use any of the installed voices and to control the pitch, speaking rate and modulation of the spoken text.\n\nThe Apple iOS operating system used on the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch uses VoiceOver speech synthesis for accessibility. Some third party applications also provide speech synthesis to facilitate navigating, reading web pages or translating text.\n\nThe second operating system to feature advanced speech synthesis capabilities was AmigaOS, introduced in 1985. The voice synthesis was licensed by Commodore International from SoftVoice, Inc., who also developed the original MacinTalk text-to-speech system. It featured a complete system of voice emulation for American English, with both male and female voices and \"stress\" indicator markers, made possible through the Amiga's audio chipset. The synthesis system was divided into a translator library which converted unrestricted English text into a standard set of phonetic codes and a narrator device which implemented a formant model of speech generation.. AmigaOS also featured a high-level \"Speak Handler\", which allowed command-line users to redirect text output to speech. Speech synthesis was occasionally used in third-party programs, particularly word processors and educational software. The synthesis software remained largely unchanged from the first AmigaOS release and Commodore eventually removed speech synthesis support from AmigaOS 2.1 onward.\n\nDespite the American English phoneme limitation, an unofficial version with multilingual speech synthesis was developed. This made use of an enhanced version of the translator library which could translate a number of languages, given a set of rules for each language.\n\nModern Windows desktop systems can use SAPI 4 and SAPI 5 components to support speech synthesis and speech recognition. SAPI 4.0 was available as an optional add-on for Windows 95 and Windows 98. Windows 2000 added Narrator, a text–to–speech utility for people who have visual impairment. Third-party programs such as JAWS for Windows, Window-Eyes, Non-visual Desktop Access, Supernova and System Access can perform various text-to-speech tasks such as reading text aloud from a specified website, email account, text document, the Windows clipboard, the user's keyboard typing, etc. Not all programs can use speech synthesis directly. Some programs can use plug-ins, extensions or add-ons to read text aloud. Third-party programs are available that can read text from the system clipboard.\n\nMicrosoft Speech Server is a server-based package for voice synthesis and recognition. It is designed for network use with web applications and call centers.\n\nIn the early 1980s, TI was known as a pioneer in speech synthesis, and a highly popular plug-in speech synthesizer module was available for the TI-99/4 and 4A. Speech synthesizers were offered free with the purchase of a number of cartridges and were used by many TI-written video games (notable titles offered with speech during this promotion were Alpiner and Parsec). The synthesizer uses a variant of linear predictive coding and has a small in-built vocabulary. The original intent was to release small cartridges that plugged directly into the synthesizer unit, which would increase the device's built in vocabulary. However, the success of software text-to-speech in the Terminal Emulator II cartridge cancelled that plan.\n\nText-to-Speech (TTS) refers to the ability of computers to read text aloud. A TTS Engine converts written text to a phonemic representation, then converts the phonemic representation to waveforms that can be output as sound. TTS engines with different languages, dialects and specialized vocabularies are available through third-party publishers.\n\nVersion 1.6 of Android added support for speech synthesis (TTS).\n\nCurrently, there are a number of applications, plugins and gadgets that can read messages directly from an e-mail client and web pages from a web browser or Google Toolbar, such as Text to Voice, which is an add-on to Firefox. Some specialized software can narrate RSS-feeds. On one hand, online RSS-narrators simplify information delivery by allowing users to listen to their favourite news sources and to convert them to podcasts. On the other hand, on-line RSS-readers are available on almost any PC connected to the Internet. Users can download generated audio files to portable devices, e.g. with a help of podcast receiver, and listen to them while walking, jogging or commuting to work.\n\nA growing field in Internet based TTS is web-based assistive technology, e.g. 'Browsealoud' from a UK company and Readspeaker. It can deliver TTS functionality to anyone (for reasons of accessibility, convenience, entertainment or information) with access to a web browser. The non-profit project was created in 2006 to provide a similar web-based TTS interface to the Wikipedia.\n\nOther work is being done in the context of the W3C through the W3C Audio Incubator Group with the involvement of The BBC and Google Inc.\n\nSome open-source software systems are available, such as:\n\n\nWith the 2016 introduction of Adobe Voco audio editing and generating software prototype slated to be part of the Adobe Creative Suite and the similarly enabled DeepMind WaveNet, a deep neural network based audio synthesis software from Google \nspeech synthesis is verging on being completely indistinguishable from a real human's voice.\n\nAdobe Voco takes approximately 20 minutes of the desired target's speech and after that it can generate sound-alike voice with even phonemes that were not present in the training material. The software poses ethical concerns as it allows to steal other peoples voices and manipulate them to say anything desired.\n\nThis increases the stress on the disinformation situation coupled with the facts that \n\nA number of markup languages have been established for the rendition of text as speech in an XML-compliant format. The most recent is Speech Synthesis Markup Language (SSML), which became a W3C recommendation in 2004. Older speech synthesis markup languages include Java Speech Markup Language (JSML) and SABLE. Although each of these was proposed as a standard, none of them have been widely adopted.\n\nSpeech synthesis markup languages are distinguished from dialogue markup languages. VoiceXML, for example, includes tags related to speech recognition, dialogue management and touchtone dialing, in addition to text-to-speech markup.\n\nSpeech synthesis has long been a vital assistive technology tool and its application in this area is significant and widespread. It allows environmental barriers to be removed for people with a wide range of disabilities. The longest application has been in the use of screen readers for people with visual impairment, but text-to-speech systems are now commonly used by people with dyslexia and other reading difficulties as well as by pre-literate children. They are also frequently employed to aid those with severe speech impairment usually through a dedicated voice output communication aid.\n\nSpeech synthesis techniques are also used in entertainment productions such as games and animations. In 2007, Animo Limited announced the development of a software application package based on its speech synthesis software FineSpeech, explicitly geared towards customers in the entertainment industries, able to generate narration and lines of dialogue according to user specifications. The application reached maturity in 2008, when NEC Biglobe announced a web service that allows users to create phrases from the voices of characters.\n\nIn recent years, Text to Speech for disability and handicapped communication aids have become widely deployed in Mass Transit. Text to Speech is also finding new applications outside the disability market. For example, speech synthesis, combined with speech recognition, allows for interaction with mobile devices via natural language processing interfaces.\n\nText-to speech is also used in second language acquisition. Voki, for instance, is an educational tool created by Oddcast that allows users to create their own talking avatar, using different accents. They can be emailed, embedded on websites or shared on social media.\n\nIn addition, speech synthesis is a valuable computational aid for the analysis and assessment of speech disorders. A voice quality synthesizer, developed by Jorge C. Lucero et al. at University of Brasilia, simulates the physics of phonation and includes models of vocal frequency jitter and tremor, airflow noise and laryngeal asymmetries. The synthesizer has been used to mimic the timbre of dysphonic speakers with controlled levels of roughness, breathiness and strain.\n\nMultiple companies offer TTS APIs to their customers to accelerate development of new applications utilizing TTS technology. Companies offering TTS APIs include AT&T, CereProc, DIOTEK, IVONA, Neospeech, Readspeaker, SYNVO, YAKiToMe!, Yandex and CPqD. For mobile app development, Android operating system has been offering text to speech API for a long time. Most recently, with iOS7, Apple started offering an API for text to speech.\n\n"}
{"id": "56191283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56191283", "title": "Suspension of Hunter Yelton", "text": "Suspension of Hunter Yelton\n\nA 6-year-old student, Hunter Yelton, was suspended around 9 December 2013 on allegations of sexually harassing a 6-year-old girl at Lincoln School of Science and Technology in Cañon City, Colorado. The two families dispute whether the contact was consensual. The school received widespread media attention and public criticism for suspending Yelton and for labeling the behavior as sexual harassment.\n\nLocal station KRDO reported on 9 December 2013 that Hunter Yelton, a 6-year-old boy at Lincoln elementary school, was suspended from school on grounds of alleged sexual harassment of a 6-year-old female classmate. Yelton and his mother, Jennifer Saunders, stated that Yelton had been suspended for giving the girl a \"harmless peck\" on the hand and that Yelton and the girl had a crush on each other; Saunders said the girl was \"fine with it\" and that Hunter and the girl consider themselves \"boyfriend and girlfriend.\" Yelton had gotten into trouble previously for kissing the same girl on the cheek, and for rough-housing. Saunders expressed fury in an interview and stated that, while what Hunter did might have been wrong, the school had overreacted: \"Remove sexual harassment, remove it from his record. I'm going to stand up and fight for him because that's not the case, that's not what happened at all.\"\n\nThe case went viral on social media; many commentators swiftly expressed outrage over the school's behavior. Some criticized the sexual harassment charge: \"(6-year-olds) don't know anything about sex or sexual harassment. So how on earth can they be accused of such behavior?\" Others criticized the school's zero-tolerance policy on sexual harassment. The \"Christian Science Monitor\" quoted experts stating \"This is just another example of going overboard on rules in schools that need to be more flexible\" and \"directing efforts at this particular six-year-old transgressor through a zero tolerance policy seems like an ineffective approach for handling this situation\". However, the \"Monitor\" also quoted educational professor Paul Hewitt with a word of caution: \"Before the general public jumps to conclusions about the unfairness, and even silliness, of this situation, it might be good to step back and recognize that we don't know what other behaviors this student has exhibited and because he is a minor we don't have a right to know\".\n\nSchool psychologist David Welsh said school boards are being forced to develop strict policies and follow them to the letter because of a large number of complaints being reported by students and teachers who face consequences if they keep silent.\n\nJames Taranto in the \"Wall Street Journal\" called Yelton \"the littlest casualty in the war on men\": \"In Barack Obama's America, even a small boy can become a sexual suspect\".\n\nThe school's superintendent, Robin Gooldy, stated that Yelton's pattern of behavior meets the school policy description of sexual harassment, which includes unwanted touching. Around 11 December, the girl's mother, , came forward to praise the school district for doing a \"great job\" in protecting her daughter \"from sexual harassment\". Ownbey stated the kisses were \"Not once, but over and over... not with her permission but sneaking up on her... not without warning and consequences prior to suspension\", that Yelton had prevented her daughter from playing with other kids, and that \"I had to put restrictions on her about which she was allowed to be around at school. I've had to coach her about what to do when you don't want someone touching you, but they won't stop.\" Ownbey judged \"that boy deserved to be suspended for the continual harassment of my daughter\": \"He needs to learn not to do that. But there's forgiveness and it shouldn't be a huge story\".\n\nAround 12 December the school agreed to label Yelton's behavior as \"misconduct\" rather than \"sexual harassment\". Gooldy stated \"The category of behavior was changed from sexual harassment to misconduct. It has never been about labels for us, we just want the behavior to be corrected.\"\n\nYelton ended up being suspended for a total of four days for the misconduct. The girl Yelton kissed was moved to a different classroom shortly after Yelton was suspended. Around May 2014, Saunders placed her son in a new school in Florida; Saunders stated that the incident was one \"motivating factor\" for changing schools. Yelton's discipline record would reportedly be following him to the new school.\n\nThe suspension continues to be cited by pundits as an alleged example of overzealous punishment. \"The Economist\" attributed the suspension to an epidemic of students unfairly \"getting into trouble for silly reasons\": \"A school in Canon City, Colorado suspended Hunter Yelton for violating its sexual-harassment policy. His crime? Kissing a girl on the hand.\" In 2015, Hollie McKay reported in Fox News that the Yelton incident was one of a list of \"cases of educators imposing punishments that did not seem to fit the crime\". David Harsanyi satirically compared Yelton and other \"victims of jumpy teachers\" to alleged clock-bomb hoaxer Ahmed Mohamed, asking why Mohamed had been invited to the White House where other high-profile \"victims\" had not. Social psychologist Carol Tavris wrote for \"eSkeptic\": \"Be careful! Remember the stupidity of 'zero tolerance' programs in schools, where a kid who brings a pocket knife for show-and-tell, or a 6-year-old boy who kisses a 6-year-old girl, got expelled?\" \n\nIn 2015, Allison Pearson in \"The Telegraph\" attributed the incident to a trend of \"seeking out sexist slights\" where no slight is intended. U.S. Presidential candidate Mike Huckabee labeled it as \"political correctness\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4003872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4003872", "title": "Teacher education", "text": "Teacher education\n\nTeacher education (TE) or teacher training refers to the policies, procedures, and provision designed to equip (prospective) teachers with the knowledge, attitudes, behaviors, and skills they require to perform their tasks effectively in the classroom, school, and wider community.\nThe professionals who engage in this activity are called teacher educators (or, in some contexts, teacher trainers).\n\nThere is a longstanding and ongoing debate about the most appropriate term to describe these activities. The term 'teacher training' (which may give the impression that the activity involves training staff to undertake relatively routine tasks) seems to be losing ground, at least in the U.S., to 'teacher education' (with its connotation of preparing staff for a professional role as a reflective practitioner).\n\nThe process by which teachers are educated is the subject of political discussion in many countries, reflecting both the value attached by societies and cultures to the preparation of young people for life, and the fact that education systems consume significant financial resources.\n\nHowever, the degree of political control over Teacher Education varies. Where TE is entirely in the hands of universities, the state may have no direct control whatever over what or how new teachers are taught; this can lead to anomalies, such as teachers being taught using teaching methods that would be deemed inappropriate if they used the same methods in schools, or teachers being taught by persons with little or no hands-on experience of teaching in real classrooms. In other systems, TE may be the subject of detailed prescription (e.g. the state may specify the skills that all teachers must possess, or it may specify the content of TE courses).\n\nPolicy cooperation in the European Union (EU) has led to a broad description of the kinds of attributes that teachers in EU Member States should possess: the Common European Principle for Teacher Competences and Qualifications.\n\nAlthough ideally it should be conceived of, and organised as, a seamless continuum, teacher education is often divided into these stages\n\nThere is a longstanding and ongoing debate about the most appropriate term to describe these activities. The term 'teacher training' (which may give the impression that the activity involves training staff to undertake relatively routine tasks) seems to be losing ground, at least in the U.S., to 'teacher education' (with its connotation of preparing staff for a professional role as a reflective practitioner).\n\nIn many countries, Initial Teacher Education (also known as preservice teacher training) takes place largely or exclusively in institutions of Higher Education. It may be organized according to two basic models.\n\nIn the 'consecutive' model, a teacher first obtains a qualification in one or more subjects (often an undergraduate bachelor's degree), and then studies for a further period to gain an additional qualification in teaching (this may take the form of a post-baccalaureate credential or master's degree).\n\nIn the alternative 'concurrent' model, a student simultaneously studies both one or more academic subjects, and the ways of teaching that subject, leading to a combined bachelor's degree and teaching credential to qualify as a teacher of that subject.\n\nOther pathways are also available. In some countries, it is possible for a person to receive training as a teacher by working in a school under the responsibility of an accredited experienced practitioner. In the United Kingdom there is a long tradition of partnerships between universities and schools in providing state supported teacher education. This tradition is not without tensions and controversies.\n\nIn the United States, approximately one-third of new teachers come through alternative routes to teacher certification, according to testimony given by Emily Feistritzer, the President of National Center for Alternative Certification and the National Center for Education Information, to a congressional subcommittee on May 17, 2007. However, many alternative pathways are affiliated with schools of education, where candidates still enroll in university-based coursework. A supplemental component of university-based coursework is community-based teacher education, where teacher candidates immerse themselves in communities that will allow them to apply teaching theory to practice. Community-based teacher education also challenges teacher candidates' assumptions about the issues of gender, race, and multicultural diversity.\n\nThe question of what knowledge, attitudes, behaviours and skills teachers should possess is the subject of much debate in many cultures. This is understandable, as teachers are entrusted with the transmission to learners of society's beliefs, attitudes and deontology, as well as of information, advice and wisdom, and with facilitating learners' acquisition of the key knowledge, attitudes and behaviours that they will need to be active in society and the economy.\n\nGenerally, Teacher Education curricula can be broken down into four major areas:\n\nThose training to teach in rural and remote areas face different challenges from those who teach in urban centres. Therefore, a different approach to teacher education is needed for those who aspire to each in rural and remote areas. It has been proposed that rural and remote communities may have more success recruiting teachers who already live in these communities, rather than trying to recruit urbanites to move to rural communities once they have completed their teacher training. Online and blended teacher education programs are becoming more prevalent to help meet the needs of teacher shortages in rural and remote areas\n\n\nThese three areas reflect the organization of most teacher education programs in North America (though not necessarily elsewhere in the world)—courses, modules, and other activities are often organized to belong to one of the three major areas of teacher education. The organization makes the programs more rational or logical in structure. The conventional organization has sometimes also been criticized, however, as artificial and unrepresentative of how teachers actually experience their work. Problems of practice frequently (perhaps usually) concern foundational issues, curriculum, and practical knowledge simultaneously, and separating them during teacher education may therefore not be helpful.\nHowever, the question of necessary training components is highly debated as continuing increases in attrition rates by new teachers and struggling learners is evident. Additionally, with the increasing demands of the \"teacher\" research is beginning to suggest that teachers must not only be trained to increase learning experiences for their students, but how to also be a leader in an increasingly challenging field. The debate of how best to prepare teachers for teaching in today's demanding environments will continue to be an important focus of the United States, where the education of all children successfully is priority.\n\nTeaching involves the use of a wide body of knowledge about the subject being taught, and another set of knowledge about the most effective ways to teach that subject to different kinds of learner; it, therefore, requires teachers to undertake a complex set of tasks every minute. Many teachers experience their first years in the profession as stressful. The proportion of teachers who either do not enter the profession after completing initial training, or who leave the profession after their first teaching post, is high.\n\nA distinction is sometimes made between inducting a teacher into a new school (explaining the school's vision, procedures etc.), and inducting a new teacher into the teaching profession (providing the support necessary to help the beginning teacher develop a professional identity, and to further develop the basic competences that were acquired in college).\n\nA number of countries and states have put in place comprehensive systems of support to help beginning teachers during their first years in the profession. Elements of such a programme can include:\n\nSome research suggests that such programmes can: increase the retention of beginning teachers in the profession; improve teaching performance; promote the teachers' personal and professional well-being.\n\nHowever, numerous authors suggest that current teacher education is highly flawed and primarily geared towards a western dominated curriculum. Hence, they suggest that teacher education should be inclusive and take into account multiple backgrounds and variables to allow teachers to be responsive to the requirements of their students. This falls into the area of culturally responsive teaching and requires teaching education and teachers to address issues of diversity education and disadvantage as a part of a teacher education curriculum. Jabbar & Hardaker (2013) argue that this is an essential process in helping students of ethnicity, colour and diversity achieve and attain.\n\nBecause the world that teachers are preparing young people to enter is changing so rapidly, and because the teaching skills required are evolving likewise, no initial course of teacher education can be sufficient to prepare a teacher for a career of 30 or 40 years. In addition, as the student body continues to change due to demographic issues there is a continuous pressure on academics to have mastery of their subjects but also to understand their students. Continuous Professional Development (CPD) is the process by which teachers (like other professionals) reflect upon their competencies, keep them up to date, and develop them further.\n\nThe extent to which education authorities support this process varies, as does the effectiveness of the different approaches. A growing research base suggests that to be most effective, CPD activities should:\n\nThere are several educations around the world which have been working to improve CPD for teachers. One such organisation is Centre for Teacher Accreditation (CENTA) which has designed teaching standards for different stages in a teacher's career. Further, it conducts a Certification for teachers to engage with them on these standards and recognise those who are outstanding, thereby providing an incentive for CPp\n\nThe concept of 'Quality' in education is contested and understood in numerous different ways.\n\nIt is sometimes taken to relate to the quality of the work undertaken by a teacher, which has significant effects upon his or her pupils or students. Further, those who pay teachers' salaries, whether through taxes or through school fees, wish to be assured that they are receiving value for money. Ways to measure the quality of work of individual teachers, of schools, or of education systems as a whole, are therefore often sought.\n\nIn most countries, teacher salary is not related to the perceived quality of his or her work. Some, however, have systems to identify the 'best-performing' teachers, and increase their remuneration accordingly. Elsewhere, assessments of teacher performance may be undertaken with a view to identifying teachers' needs for additional training or development, or, in extreme cases, to identify those teachers that should be required to leave the profession. In some countries, teachers are required to re-apply periodically for their license to teach, and in so doing, to prove that they still have the requisite skills.\n\nFeedback on the performance of teachers is integral to many state and private education procedures, but takes many different forms. The 'no fault' approach is believed by some to be satisfactory, as weaknesses are carefully identified, assessed and then addressed through the provision of in house or school based training. These can, however, be seen as benefiting the institution and not necessarily fully meeting the CPD needs of the individual as they lack educational gravitas.\n\nA teacher educator (also called a teacher trainer) is a person who helps other people to acquire the knowledge, competences and attitudes they require to be effective teachers.\nSeveral individual teacher educators are usually involved in the initial or ongoing education of each teacher; often each specialises in teaching about a different aspect of teaching (e.g. educational ethics, philosophy of education, sociology of education, curriculum, pedagogy, subject-specific teaching methods etc.).\n\nNot every culture has a concept that precisely matches the English term 'teacher educator'...\nEven where the concept exists, the range of roles that is covered by the term varies significantly from country to country. \nIn some traditions, the term 'teacher trainer' may be used instead of 'teacher educator'.\n\nA teacher educator may be narrowly defined as a higher education professional whose principle activity is the preparation of beginning teachers in universities and other institutions of teacher education, such as teacher colleges. A broader definition might include any professional whose work contributes in some way to the initial education or the continuing professional development of school and other teachers.\n\nEven within a single educational system, teacher educators may be employed in different roles by different kinds of organisation. In the European context, for example, people who could be considered to be teacher educators include: \n\nTeacher educators may therefore work in many different contexts including (universities, schools, private sector training organisations or trade unions) and their working time may be fully, or only partly, dedicated to the preparation of teachers.\n\nBeing able to educate teachers requires different knowledge and skills than those required to teach pupils or students.\n\nSome recent research has highlighted the many fields of knowledge that are required by teacher educators; these include knowledge about: the pedagogy of teacher education; learning and learners; teaching and coaching; and the profession of teacher educator itself. In addition, teacher educators need to know about the specific contexts their students will work and working in (e.g. for primary, or secondary education) and the subjects they will teach. More experienced teacher educators need expertise in: curriculum development and assessment; the wider context of teacher education, the way it is organised, and in research.\n\nThe complexity of the tasks of the teacher educator arises in part because, as research has shown, they have multiple professional identities. (This is linked to the issues of definition of the term, highlighted above). While some of those who carry responsibility for the education of teachers do self-identify as 'teacher educator', others may self-identify rather as 'researcher' or 'academic'; others may relate primarily to their academic discipline, such as 'chemist' or 'geographer.'\n\nBut the key duality of identity that lies at the core of the teacher educator profession is that of first-order and second order teaching. A teacher educator must be a highly competent ‘first-order educator’ (i.e. a good teacher) but also a skilled ‘second-order educator’ (i.e. capable of teaching effectively about the skill of teaching and facilitating others to acquire teaching skills). As first-order educators, they need to be proficient teachers (of 'adult' students). As second-order educators, they require, in addition, specific competences and dispositions, such as modelling and meta-reflection, that enable them to teach about teaching.\n\nThe acquisition or improvement of teacher competences requires training, through which it will be improved educational planning and assessment. This results in a better learning of students, as evidences show. It is the objective of FAMT & L Comenius project, conducted at the University of Bologna, designed with the aim of promoting the correct use of formative assessment in mathematics education for students aged from 11 to 16. Reaching this goal supposes to design training programs for teachers of mathematics, starting from identificating their needs, believes, expectations and the use of formative assessment.\n\nThe way in which teacher educators teach has a greater impact on student teachers’ thinking about practice than what teacher educators teach. So, teacher educators need to be able to model the competences and attributes they wish their students to adopt. Swennen et al. (2008). concluded that, in order to ‘model’ what they teach, teacher educators need to develop the ability to link their own (tacit) theories and practice of teaching to public theory, i.e., in Korthagen’s words, to translate Theory with a capital ‘T’ to theory with a small ‘t’.\n\nJust as teaching is no longer seen as simply transferring factual information, so educating teachers also requires a more sophisticated approach, based upon professional awareness that comes from reflective practice. For Loughran, being a professional teacher educator requires “genuinely reflecting on, and responding to, the needs, demands, and expectations of teaching about teaching within the academy”.\n\nIn some parts of the world (notably the United States, Flanders and the Netherlands) specific standards of professional practice have been developed for, or by, teacher educators. These set out the range of competences that a member of the teacher educator profession is expected to be able to deploy, as well as the attitudes, values and behaviours that are deemed to be acceptable for membership of the profession).\n\nWhile schools and school teachers are often in the news and in political debate, research shows that the teacher educator profession is largely absent from such public discussions and from policy discourse in Education which often focuses exclusively on teachers and school leaders.\n\nSome research suggests that, while most countries have policies, and legislation, in place concerning the teaching profession, few countries have a clear policy or strategy on the teacher educator profession. Caena (2012) found that some of the consequences of this situation can include a teacher educator profession that is poorly organised, has low status or low formal recognition, has few regulations, professional standards - or even minimum qualifications, and no coherent approach to the selection, induction, or continuing professional development of Teacher Educators.\n\nIn India, the National Council of Teacher Education (NCTE) released the 'National Curricular Framework for Teacher Education, 2010 (NCFTE), which aims to remedy many of the ills of teacher training in India. It calls for preparing a 'humane and reflective practitioner' and for fostering the agency and autonomy of the teacher, who can interpret the curriculum meaningfully to the contextual needs of the learners, than merely focus on 'teaching the text book'.\n\nThe teacher educator profession has also been seen as under-researched; empirical research on professional practice is also scarce.\n\nHowever, the importance of the quality of this profession for the quality of teaching and learning has been underlined by international bodies including the OECD and the European Commission. \n\nSome writers have therefore identified a need for more research into “what teachers of teachers themselves need to know”, and what institutional supports are needed to “meet the complex demands of preparing teachers for the 21st century.”\n\nIn response to this perceived need, more research projects are now focussing on the teacher educator profession. Several academic journals cover this field.\n\n"}
{"id": "26871735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26871735", "title": "Thomas C. Südhof", "text": "Thomas C. Südhof\n\nThomas Christian Südhof (born December 22, 1955), , is a German-American biochemist known for his study of synaptic transmission. Currently, he is a professor in the School of Medicine in the Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, and by courtesy in Neurology, and in Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University.\n\nSüdhof, James Rothman and Randy Schekman are the 2013 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine laureates for their work on vesicle trafficking.\n\nA German native, Südhof was born in Göttingen in 1955. He spent his childhood in Göttingen and Hannover. He studied music in his youth, specifically the bassoon, and has credited his bassoon instructor, Herbert Tauscher, as his \"most influential teacher\". He was a graduate from the Hannover Waldorf School in 1975. Südhof studied medicine at the RWTH Aachen University, Harvard University, and then the University of Göttingen. In Göttingen Südhof worked on his doctoral thesis, in which he described the structure and function of chromaffin cells, at the Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry in the lab of Victor P. Whittaker. In 1982, he received his PhD in medical science (Dr.med.) from the University of Göttingen.\n\nAfter a brief postdoctoral fellowship in Whittaker's lab, Südhof moved to the United States in 1983, where he began postdoctoral training in the department of molecular genetics at the University of Texas Health Science Center (now the UT Southwestern Medical Center) in Dallas, Texas, under the supervision of Michael Stuart Brown and Joseph L. Goldstein.\n\nDuring his postdoctoral research fellowship, Südhof worked to describe the role of the LDL receptor in cholesterol metabolism, for which Brown and Goldstein were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1985. Südhof finished his postdoctoral training in 1986 and was elected to be an investigator of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. He then established his own laboratory at UT Southwestern Medical Center where he focused on the molecular and cellular neurosciences centered on synapses for over 20 years.\n\nIn 2008, Südhof moved to Stanford University and is currently the Avram Goldstein Professor in the School of Medicine as well as a Professor of Molecular & Cellular Physiology, Psychiatry, and Neurology.\n\nThomas C. Südhof laid the foundations for his scientific career studying the synapse early while studying the mechanisms of neurotransmitter dependent hormone release from neuroendocrine cells for his doctoral thesis at the Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry. Südhof described the structure and function of chromaffin cells which are responsible for the release of epinephrine, norepinephrine and endorphins from the medulla of the adrenal gland. Innervated by sympathetic nervous system, chromaffin cells are important in the initiation of the fight-or-flight response of animals when exposed to threatening stimuli.\n\nAfter completing his thesis in 1983, Südhof moved to UT Southwestern Medical Center for his postdoctoral training where he began researching in the department of molecular genetics under the supervision of Joseph L. Goldstein and Michael Stuart Brown. While a postdoctoral fellow, Südhof cloned the gene for the low-density lipoprotein receptor and, soon after, was able to explain its transcriptional regulation by cholesterol. When LDL receptors, found concentrated in the liver, bind specific free blood cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein, they are internalized and recycled removing the cholesterol from circulation. This process is a primary source of blood cholesterol regulation and variations in its efficiency were shown to be present in familial hypercholesterolemia. As a result of the discovery, LDL receptor function had also elucidated the principle of receptor-mediated endocytosis—a now universally understood process in cell biology. Goldstein and Brown were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for the discovery in 1985.\n\nAfter finishing postdoctoral training, Thomas Südhof started his own laboratory at UT Southwestern in 1986. Briefly continuing work with Goldstein and Brown, Südhof helped identify a DNA element in the LDL gene that produced sterol mediated end-product repression when inserted in a viral promoter. This domain, known as a sterol regulatory sequence, directly participates in the regulation of sterol biosynthesis. Sterols are a major class of biomolecule and critical for life. Important sterols in humans include cholesterol and steroid hormones. Discovery of sterol regulatory elements and LDL receptor function led to the subsequent development of statin derived cholesterol medications such as atorvastatin (Lipitor)—the top-selling branded pharmaceutical drug in the world in 2008.\n\nSüdhof started his independent research career in neuroscience since 1986 and open the field of molecular neuroscience for synaptic transmission especially from the presynaptic nerve terminal perspective. Until Südhof began his work, majority of neuroscience research was aimed at the postsynaptic neuron and its role in learning and memory. Indeed, Thomas Südhof is credited with discovering much of the machinery mediating neurotransmitter release and presynaptic plasticity in his 21 years at UT Southwestern. Südhof began with the discovery of synaptotagmins and their role in neurotransmitter release from the presynaptic neuron. Synaptotagmin, a transmembrane protein found in neurosecretory vesicles, functions as a calcium sensor triggering vesicle fusion and neurotransmitter release. Stimulation of a neuron results in an increase in intracellular calcium concentration. After binding calcium ion to a region in its cytosolic domain, vesicular synaptotagmin promotes quick or slow neurotransmitter release from the presynaptic neuron via interaction with regulatory and fusion related proteins such as members of the SNARE complex. Südhof also discovered RIMs and Muncs (most notably Munc13 and Munc18), soluble proteins which aid in the fusion of neurotransmitter vesicles to the nerve cell membrane and play an important role in synaptic plasticity. In addition, Südhof's research uncovered the role of many other proteins facilitating vesicle binding, fusion, and resultant neurotransmitter release from the presynaptic neuron, including members of the SNARE complex: synaptobrevin, in the vesicular membrane, syntaxin, in the cell membrane, and SNAP25, which is tethered to the cytosolic side of the cell membrane via cysteine-linked palmitoyl chains and holds the complex of four helices together. Südhof was also responsible for elucidating the action of tetanus and botulinum toxins, which selectively cleave synaptobrevin and SNAP25, respectively, inhibiting vesicle fusion with the presynaptic membrane.\n\nA second influential contribution of Thomas Südhof is on synapse formation and specifications. Südhof discovered a number of key molecules in this process such as neurexins, present on presynaptic neurons, and neuroligins, present on postsynaptic neurons, that come together to form a physical protein bridge across the synapse. The diversity in types of neurexins and neuroligins allows for a variety of unique binding opportunities between neurons and impart a specificity to synaptic connections. Additionally he also discovered or elucidated the important functions of SynCAM, Latrophilins etc. in synapse formation. In additional studies, Südhof identified mutations in these proteins as a factor in inherited autism. Südhof is striving to elucidate the mechanism by which neurexins and neuroligins locate each other to form the synapse, their transcriptional regulation, and control of their variability.\n\nThomas Südhof currently continues his work on synapse formation, maintenance as well as synaptic releases in his laboratory at Stanford University. Additionally, together with Dr. Marius Wernig at Stanford University, Südhof developed induced neuronal cell technology where they can use human neuronal cells derived from patients or genetically engineered with defined mutations that linked to neuropsychiatric disorders or neurodevelopmental disorders. Südhof's research has not only given the scientific community a great understanding of the processes underlying synaptic transmission and synapse formation, but has also advanced medical knowledge of mechanisms behind poorly understood diseases such as Alzheimer's, Schizophrenia, and Autism. He is currently working with a diverse group of researchers at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute to develop mouse models for mutants of synaptic genes. The project aims to drastically advance our understanding of neurological disorders. He also serves on the Research Consortium of Cure Alzheimer's Fund.\n\nThomas Südhof recently also engages in scientific ethics as exemplified by his recent work at PLOS Biology \"Truth in Science Publishing: A personal Perspective\" and various interviews including his discussion about music, policy and medicine with \"The Lancet\". In 2017, he published an article in the \"Washington Post\" on basic research vs. drug development.\n\nSüdhof is married to Lu Chen, a professor of neurosurgery and of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at Stanford University. The couple have three children. Südhof has four more children from his previous marriage with Annette Südhof.\n"}
{"id": "3070662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3070662", "title": "Trinity Christian Academy (Addison, Texas)", "text": "Trinity Christian Academy (Addison, Texas)\n\nTrinity Christian Academy (TCA) is a conservative non-denominational Christian school in Addison, Texas, a suburb of Dallas. The school was founded in the late 1960s during the racial desegregation of public schools as a segregation academy. \n\nIn 1968, the school was planned by concerned parents seeking better and safer education for their children. According to school history there was a strong desire for a combination of rigorous academics within a framework of traditional Christian values. The parents therefore rented a church facility to begin the school. The space opened to eighty students in 1970. However, the space became too small and in 1976 a new school was built among sorghum fields in rural Addison. At the time this area was lacking in water and sewage lines, and only had a few homes. \n\nThe area has become heavily urbanized, and today the school attracts over 1,500 students from 27 jurisdictions in the surrounding Dallas metropolitan area. The school reports that its alums identify with 14 different denominations and religious groups.\n\nIn January 1976, grades 7-12 moved into the new Addison facility; the Lower School moved in the next fall. Tom Landry Stadium and the Field House were completed by that fall, as well. In 1980, TCA sold a portion of its property and used the proceeds to retire debt and pay for the MCB (multi-component building), which contained the auditorium, cafeteria, gymnasium, library, music, and art rooms. The building opened in 1982. In 1986, the Town of Addison provided nearly $3 million in capital improvements in order to use the TCA athletic facilities after hours for the next 20 years. In 1994, the administration building was completed and Middle School classrooms were renovated. In 1995, TCA acquired land to the north for a new Upper School. In 1997, TCA moved into the new Upper School building. In 2002, a new Lower School building opened. The new Lower School was double the size of the old, more than 90,000 square feet of classrooms, a cafeteria, workrooms and KTCA studio for live student broadcasts. In 2007, TCA purchased a gymnastics center on Sojourn Road and transformed it into its Athletic Training Center, with weight rooms, training spaces and an additional gymnasium. In 2010, the school opened a 35,000 square-foot Performing Arts Center with a 900-seat auditorium; a second, smaller multi-use theater; scene shop; band room, choir room; and sound-proof recording facilities. \n\nThe school opened in the late 1960s as a segregation academy amidst the racial desegregation of public schools. In 1972, the school's enrollment surged. The headmaster, David Coterill, attributed the enrollment increase to \"parents [who] are unsure and afraid of an unsettled situation.\" Coterill claimed that the school was not intended to be a \"escape hatch for segregation\", but also acknowledged that interest in private schools like Trinity \"was initially stirred up by the busing situation.\"\n\nIn the 2015–16 school year, 23 of 1,442 students in grades 1–12 were black.\n\nIn 2004 and 2005 the school received national media attention when the administration controversially expelled a student for his sexual orientation. James Barnett was expelled for what school officials described as his \"immoral behavior and [for] supporting an immoral cause\". The officials were referring to Barnett's orientation and Barnett's involvement in the creation of the gay-themed website my-boi.com, a social network for gay youth.\n\nAccording to the school's mission statement, it aims to provide an education that is independent, academically rigorous, and strongly Christian oriented.\n\nIn addition to traditional subjects, visual arts, drama, band, and choir are also available as fine arts courses.\n\nThere are 132 faculty, and the financial budget is $21,000,000. The campus is over in size.\n\nThe school maintains a diversity program and non-discrimination policy to include all kinds of students regardless of their origin, as long as they are \"believers\". The protected groups are national origin, race, color, ethnicity, culture, economic status, and physical ability. This policy does not, however, protect or encourage students of different religions or sexual orientations, which has led to controversy.\n\nOf the 1,523 students, 553 are in the lower school or elementary school, while 481 are in middle school and 489 in the upper school, which is the high school equivalent.\n\nEight percent of students receive financial aid totaling over $1 million annually. The school claims that 100% of graduates attend college. The school is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.\n\nTCA offers over 40 AP, Pre AP, and Honors courses. Upper School students score more than 400 points above the Texas average on the SAT and more than 8 points above the Texas and national averages on the ACT.\n\nThere are 21 varsity level sports played and 54 athletic teams. \n\nFall sports - cross country (varsity boys, varsity girls, Middle School boys and Middle School girls), football (varsity, JV, 8th, 7th), golf (varsity boys, varsity girls), tennis (varsity boys, varsity girls), volleyball (varsity girls, JV girls, JV-B girls, 8A girls, 8B girls, 7A girls, 7B girls)\n\nWinter sports - basketball (varsity boys, varsity girls, JV boys, JV girls, 9th boys, 8th-blue boys, 8th-white boys, 8th girls, 7th-blue boys, 7th-white boys, 7th girls), soccer (varsity boys, varsity girls, JV boys, JV girls, 8th boys, 8th girls, 7th boys, 7th girls), wrestling (varsity boys, JV boys, Middle School boys), swimming (varsity boys, varsity girls, Middle School boys, Middle School girls)\n\nSpring sports - baseball (varsity boys, JV boys, 8th boys, 7th boys), golf (varsity boys, varsity girls, Middle School boys, Middle School girls), softball (varsity girls, Middle School girls), tennis (varsity boys, varsity girls, JV boys, JV girls, Middle School boys, Middle School girls), track and field (varsity boys, varsity girls, Middle School boys, Middle School girls)\n\nThe school competes with other private and parochial schools in the Texas Association of Private and Parochial Schools (TAPPS) league, in the largest classification level, 6A, where it won state championships in 2006 for both varsity baseball and wrestling, and placed second in football. On November 10, 2007, the TCA girls' volleyball team returned to the TAPPS class 6A state title game and came away with a 3–1 victory.\n\nThe football stadium is named after famed football coach Tom Landry, due to his extensive involvement with the school.\n\nTCA offers courses in the visual and performing arts beginning in Lower School, where students take art and music. In Middle School, students can choose between art, choir, band and drama, and in Upper School students have the opportunity to participate in choir, band and an extensive selection of AP art courses.\n\nIn 2012, TCA opened the Trinity Art Gallery (TAG) on the second floor of the Upper School. The gallery features selected student works from grades K-12, as well as hosts regionally and nationally known artists and their work. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5233835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5233835", "title": "Tunis El Manar University", "text": "Tunis El Manar University\n\nThe Tunis - El Manar University (UTM, ) is a university located in Tunis, Tunisia. It was founded in 2000 and is organized in 11 Faculties.\n\nAccording to URAP (University Ranking by Academic Performance) ranking of 2014-2015, it is the best university in Tunisia and the 1085th university in the world.\n\nThese are the 11 faculties, schools and institute in which the university is divided into:\n\n\nThe CEO of this university is Jihed Hafsi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8019726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8019726", "title": "UNESCO Courier", "text": "UNESCO Courier\n\nThe UNESCO Courier is the main magazine published by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO).\n\nOf all the journals published by the United Nations and its specialized institutions, \"The UNESCO Courier\" has always occupied first place for the number of its readers and the range of its audience, said in 1988 the American journalist Sandy Koffler, \"The Courier\"'s founder and first editor-in-chief.\n\n\"UNESCO Courier\" was started in 1948. The magazine has changed a great deal over the years, both in content and in form. But it pursues its original mission: promote UNESCO’s ideals, maintain a platform for the dialogue between cultures and provide a forum for international debate.\n\nThe printed \"UNESCO Courier\" enjoys admiration of its loyal readers for decades, for its high journalistic standards and open-minded approach toward universal issues of literacy, human rights, environment, culture, science and arts.\n\nAvailable on line since March 2006, \"The UNESCO Courier\" serves readers scattered around the world: it is on PDF in the six official languages of the Organization (English, French, Spanish, Arabic, Russian and Chinese). A limited number of printed issues are also produced.\n\nThe magazine is nowadays translated in Sardinian and Esperanto. Projects also exist to translate the magazine into other languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36656971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36656971", "title": "Universities Act", "text": "Universities Act\n\nUniversities Act (with its variations) is a stock short title used in Canada, Malaysia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom for legislation relating to Universities.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Universities (Scotland) Acts 1858 to 1922 is the collective title of the following Acts:\n\nSection 8(3) of the Universities and College Estates Act 1898 (61 & 62 Vict c 55) provided that that Act could be cited with the Universities and College Estates Act 1858 to 1880.\n\nThe Universities (Scotland) Acts 1858 to 1932 is the collective title of the Universities (Scotland) Acts 1858 to 1922 and the Universities (Scotland) Act 1932 (22 & 23 Geo 5 c 26).\n\nThe Universities (Scotland) Acts 1858 to 1966 is the collective title of the Universities (Scotland) Acts 1858 to 1932 and the Universities (Scotland) Act 1966 (c 13).\n\nThe Universities and College Estates Acts 1858 to 1880 was the collective title of the following Acts:\n\nThe Universities and College Estates Acts 1925 and 1964 is the collective title of the Universities and College Estates Act 1925 (15 & 16 Geo 5 c 24) and the Universities and College Estates Act 1964 (c 51).\n\n"}
{"id": "48349331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48349331", "title": "William Tyndale affair", "text": "William Tyndale affair\n\nThe William Tyndale affair was a controversy in British education arising from the introduction in 1974–75 of radically progressive methods at the William Tyndale Junior School in the London Borough of Islington. After parent protests and the publication in 1976 of a report commissioned by the Inner London Education Authority, the affair led to an increase in government authority over education in England and Wales and a reduction in the autonomy of the local education authorities.\n\nIn January 1974, Terry Ellis was appointed headmaster of the William Tyndale Junior School, located in Islington between the gentrified area of Canonbury Square and several large council estates. He and deputy head Brian Haddow instituted a radical child-centred system, the 'integrated day', under which the school day was divided into alternating 'open' and 'closed' one-hour periods, with pupils free to choose what they did in the open periods. They had great freedom and access to all parts of the school, \"even the staff common room and lavatories\". Ellis responded to parents' concerns that children were being allowed to roam the streets: \"What do you expect me to do? Make the school into a concentration camp to keep your children in?\" Ellis and his colleagues went beyond traditional progressive education of the period as recommended in the Plowden Report, which they saw as chiefly benefitting better-off children whose parents could help them with their work; rather, in Ellis's words Tyndale \"geared its main educational effort towards the disadvantaged.\" Frank Musgrove, a professor of education, has described the Tyndale experiment as \"implement[ing] a fair selection of sociologically inspired cliches in the repertoire of advanced diploma courses for serving teachers.\" A cloakroom was converted into a 'sanctuary' for disturbed children with a special teacher, and to provide all the children with an outlet for their own skills, a steel band was organised which practised as much as eight hours a week. Severe disciplinary problems arose that the staff were unable to solve, including gambling away of lunch money, fire-starting and throwing full milk bottles into the infants' playground from the roof of the toilets.\n\nAnnie Walker, a part-time remedial reading teacher, led a protest by the minority of staff who objected to the changes, and issued a circular to parents; many parents, particularly of academically able children, withdrew their children or refused to allow them to continue from the infant school in the same building, so that the number enrolled fell sharply, eventually to 55 from 230 in 1973. The teachers had refused to allow the formation of a parent-teacher association because they thought it would be dominated by middle-class parents; since there was none, the parental complaints and staff disagreement caused the school managers to become involved on the side of the protesting staff, including seeking to inspect the school and witness classes. The dispute was widely covered in the press and there was general agreement that the children were receiving a poor education. The Inner London Education Authority responded to the managers' appeal in autumn 1975 by sending a team of inspectors to the school, who were at first forced to teach children themselves since the radical teachers had set up a rival 'strike school' elsewhere. The ILEA endorsed pupil-centred teaching and many 'experimental' schools at the time were in London, and under Ellis's predecessor Alan Head, Tyndale had been noted for team teaching, but the authority allowed heads considerable autonomy and had increasingly replaced inspection of primary schools with support for teachers and self-evaluation; the affair revealed a general reluctance of local education authorities to set policy and problems dealing with inadequate teachers. It also widened the conflict between the ILEA and the Inner London boroughs, which had no control over education but did appoint the boards of secondary schools and the managers of primary schools.\n\nA parliamentary inquiry was conducted from October 1975 to February 1976 by Robin Auld, QC. The Auld Report, published in 1976, did not attempt to formally assess children's mastery of skills such as reading, but was critical of all concerned. Ellis, Haddow and five other teachers were dismissed based on it, but the local authority itself was found to have not fulfilled its legal responsibilities. A book by two \"Times Educational Supplement\" journalists, Mark Jackson and John Gretton, advocated government intervention to define and enforce educational standards: \"After William Tyndale, the Secretary of State can no longer pretend, as he and his predecessors have so often tended to do, that it is all happening somewhere else.\" The affair catalysed public loss of confidence in the management of the education system and led to 'The Great Debate' on state education after Prime Minister James Callaghan's speech at Ruskin College in October 1976, in which he referred to \"the new informal methods of teaching, which seem to produce excellent results when they are in well-qualified hands but are much more dubious when they are not\", and eventually to state standards and policies which greatly reduced the freedom of the local education authorities and the autonomy of teachers in individual schools. It also probably contributed to the eventual dissolution of the ILEA.\n\n"}
{"id": "15294269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15294269", "title": "World language", "text": "World language\n\nA world language is spoken internationally and is learned and spoken by a large number of people as a second language. A world language is characterized not only by the total number of speakers (native and second language speakers), but also by its geographical distribution, as well as use in international organizations and diplomatic relations.\nOne of the most widely spoken and fastest spreading world languages today is English, which has over 980,000,000 first- and second-language users worldwide.\n\nArabic gained international prominence because of the medieval Islamic conquests and the subsequent Arabization of the Middle East and North Africa, and it is also a liturgical language amongst Muslim communities outside the Arab World.\n\nStandard Chinese is the direct replacement of Classical Chinese, which was a historical lingua franca in Far East Asia until the early 20th century, and today serves as a common language between speakers of other varieties of Chinese not only within China proper (between the Han Chinese and other unrelated ethnic groups), but in overseas Chinese communities. It is also widely taught as a second language internationally.\n\nThe major languages of the Indian subcontinent have numbers of speakers comparable to those of major world languages primarily due to the large population in the region rather than a supra-regional use of these languages, although Hindustani (including all Hindi dialects, and Urdu), Bengali and Tamil may fulfill the criteria in terms of supra-regional usage and international recognition. As an example, the native speaking population of Bengali vastly outnumber those who speak French as a first language, and it is one of the most spoken languages (ranking fifth or sixth) in the world with nearly 230 million total speakers, and is known for its long and rich literary tradition.\n\nIn addition to 370 million native speakers, English is estimated to have over 610 million second-language speakers, including anywhere between 200 and 350 million learners/users in China alone, at varying levels of study and proficiency, though this number is difficult to accurately assess. English is also increasingly becoming the dominant language of scientific research and papers worldwide, having even outpaced national languages in Western European countries, including France, where a recent study showed that English has massively displaced French as the language of scientific research in \"hard\" as well as in applied sciences.\n\nDuring the 19th and early 20th centuries, French was the language of communication and diplomacy, and the favoured second language among the elite and the educated classes in Europe (including Russia, Romania, Bulgaria, Greece, and Ukraine) - as well as in many Middle East and North African countries such as Syria, Egypt, Ottoman Turkey and Iran. In addition, French enjoyed high status in some southeast Asian countries (Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia), and several South American ones like Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and Uruguay. However, French has declined steadily since World War I, being gradually displaced by English - although in Lebanon, Tunisia, Algeria and Morocco, French continues to be the favoured second language. Moreover, French still remains one of the working languages of many international organizations, including the United Nations, European Union and NAFTA. French is also internationally recognized to be of high linguistic prestige, still used in diplomacy and international commerce, as well as having a significant portion of second language speakers throughout the world.\n\nGerman served as a lingua franca in large portions of Europe for centuries, mainly the Holy Roman Empire and later the Austro-Hungarian Empire. It remains an important second language in much of Central and Eastern Europe, and in the international scientific community.\n\nRussian was used in the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union, and its teaching was made compulsory in the Eastern Bloc countries. However, the use and teaching of Russian has declined sharply in both the former Eastern bloc and the near abroad since the break up of the Soviet Union and Russia’s deputy education minister was quoted as saying in December 2013 that the number of Russian speakers had fallen by 100 million since that date. It is still widely spoken throughout the Caucasus, Central Asia, Eastern Europe and the Baltic states.\n\nRussian is the largest native language in Europe, one of the six official languages of the United Nations, one of two official languages aboard the International Space Station and the third most widespread language on the Internet after English and German.\n\nSpanish is the world's second-most spoken native language, after Mandarin Chinese. Spanish was used in the Spanish Empire and today is in use in Spain, in Latin American countries (except Brazil, French Guyana, Suriname, Guiana, Haiti and other Caribbean islands), and is spoken in many parts of the United States, particularly in Florida and the states which border Mexico. Indeed, by 2013 Spanish was the most widely taught non-English language in American secondary schools and schools of higher education. It is also an official language of the United Nations. As of December 2017 Spanish had the third largest number of internet users by language (after English and Chinese).\n\nHistorical languages which had international significance as the \"lingua franca\" of a historical empire include Egyptian in Ancient Egypt; Sumerian, Akkadian and Aramaic in the various Mesopotamian civilizations and empires in the Ancient Near East; Ancient Greek in the Greek colonies in the form of various dialects, evolving to Koine Greek in the Hellenistic world, after the conquests of Alexander the Great and the Macedonian Empire, and subsequently in the eastern part of the Roman Empire and the territories of the Byzantine Empire; Latin in the Roman Empire and presently as the standard liturgical language for the Catholic faithful worldwide; Classical Chinese in East Asia during the Imperial era of Chinese history; Persian during the various succeeding Persian Empires, and once served as the second lingua franca of the Islamic World after Arabic; Sanskrit during the ancient and medieval historical periods of various states in South Asia, Southeast Asia, and Central Asia, and like Latin an important liturgical language of the Vedic religions.\n\nThe Romance languages bear testimony to the role of Latin as the \"lingua franca\" of the Roman Empire; for example, Italian has always been important in the Mediterranean region, and nowadays it is the most-spoken language among members of the Roman catholic hierarchy and it is also used in music (especially Opera) and the fashion industry. Turkish was similarly important as the primary language of the Ottoman Empire. Koine Greek was the \"world language\" of the Hellenistic period, but its distribution is not reflected in the distribution of Modern Greek due to the linguistic impact of the Slavic, Arabic and Turkic expansions. The distribution of the Arabic and Turkic languages, in turn, are a legacy of the Caliphates and the Turkic Khaganate, respectively.\n\nJust as all the living world languages owe their status to linguistic imperialism, the suggestion of a given language as a world language or \"universal language\" has strong political implications. Thus, Russian was declared the \"world language of internationalism\" in Soviet literature, which at the same time denounced French as the \"language of fancy courtiers\" and English as the \"jargon of traders\". A number of international auxiliary languages have been introduced as prospective world languages, the most successful of them being Esperanto, but none were learned by as many people as the world languages were. Many natural languages have been proffered as candidates for a global \"lingua franca\".\n\nSome sources define a living world language as having the following properties:\nCertain languages with greater than 100 million speakers, such as Japanese, are not listed. Japanese, although considered to be one of the most significant languages internationally, along with the listed world languages, it is not considered a world language \"per se\". Japan as a region is nearly homogeneous from ethnic, cultural and linguistic standpoints. Thus Japanese has little history as a \"lingua franca\" amongst communities who do not share a mother tongue or first language; their overseas communities are strongly tied to ethnicity. While international interest since the 1980s has prompted many major universities, secondary schools, and even primary schools worldwide to offer courses in the language, Japanese only exerts a regionally limited sphere of influence.\n\nLanguages which are often considered world languages include:\n\nOther sources denote the following languages as world languages, whilst stricter sources list them as supra-regional languages:\n\nOther languages of supra-regional importance which fail some of the other criteria to be considered \"de facto\" world languages include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10765980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10765980", "title": "Yu Hao", "text": "Yu Hao\n\nYu Hao (, 970) was an eminent Chinese structural engineer and architect during the Song Dynasty period (960–1279).\n\nYu Hao was given the title of Master-Carpenter (Du Liao Jiang) for his architectural skill. He wrote the \"Mu Jing\" (木經; \"Timberwork Manual\") when he was active sometime between 965 to 995, considered an important piece of classical Chinese architectural literature, and although it no longer survives, Shen Kuo quoted from it. In 989, his architectural design and structural engineering work culminated in the construction of the Kai-Bao Pagoda, a wooden Chinese pagoda of medieval Kaifeng (the Northern Song's capital city). The pagoda was lost in a 1040 lightning conflagration, while the now famous Iron Pagoda of Kaifeng was rebuilt on the same spot in 1049, constructed out of brick and stone to resist arson and lightning fires.\n\nWriting a century later (c. 1088), the polymath scientist and statesman Shen Kuo (1031–1095) praised the architectural writings of Yu Hao. Below are two passages from Shen's book \"Meng Xi Bi Tan\" (\"Dream Pool Essays\"), outlining the basics contained in Yu's 10th century work on early Song-era architecture.\n\nIn the first quote, Shen Kuo describes a scene in which Yu Hao gives advice to another artisan architect about slanting struts for diagonal wind bracing (Wade-Giles spelling):\n\nIn this next quote, Shen Kuo describes the dimensions and types of architecture outlined in Yu Hao's book (Wade-Giles spelling):\n\n\n\n"}
