{"id": "37933324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37933324", "title": "Age of Interruption", "text": "Age of Interruption\n\nThe Age of Interruption refers to a seeming increase in fractured attention due to media tools and virtual multitasking. The term was popularized by Thomas Friedman in a 2006 \"New York Times\" opinion editorial.\n\nFriedman deemed the age of \"malady of modernity\", and characterized it as reflecting information overload and lack of adequate attention span:\n\n\"Continuous partial attention is when you are on the Internet or cellphone or BlackBerry while also watching TV, typing on your computer and answering a question from your kid. That is, you are multitasking your way through the day, continuously devoting only partial attention to each act or person you encounter.\"\n\nCharacterized by information overload and multitasking, the age of interruption is a relatively recent but still frequently studied topic in education and technology disciplines. Educators and technology researchers study the phenomenon in relation to its effects on social, cognitive and emotional development. Ellen Rose, a professor of education at University of New Brunswick in Canada, studies online learning environments, with particular expertise in social effects of technology and media ecology. In a 2010 academic article, she posits that the Age of Interruption is another age in technological formation, following the Information Age. She discusses the Age of Interruption in relation to younger generations (digital natives) who have an over-abundance of information along with a general attitude of inattention.\n\nConversely, other researchers find a more optimistic view of technology's relationship to multitasking. In \"Media as Extensions\", Lin (2009) determined that the hyperlinked structure of information on the web may promote learning and creativity.\n\n"}
{"id": "4158961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4158961", "title": "Akshaya project", "text": "Akshaya project\n\nThe Akshaya project, first started in the rural Malappuram district of Kerala, India, and now spread all around the state, was the first district-wide e-literacy project in India and one of the largest known Internet Protocol (IP) based wireless networks in the world. In November 2002, the state government of Kerala put into place a project, piloted in Malappuram, with the goal of at least one person in every family to be computer literate in that district. Malappuram is now what is said to be India's First E-literate District. The mission continues to make Kerala the First E-literate state in India.\n\nIn Malappuram district alone, Akshaya has conducted one of the world's largest computer literacy drives, claiming to reach over 600,000 households, representing more than 3.6 million people, in less than 6 months. The project has created a unique brand of state-funded computer access centers, and simultaneously led to a massive wireless infrastructure, providing a wide range of services and making way to many future opportunities.\n\nThe project offers lots of services like: E-Pay (electronic payment of utility bills like electricity, land phone, drinking water, university fees etc.); E-Krishi (for farmers to provide online agriculture trading and information portal, A to Z Solution); E-Vidya (advanced IT learning for e-literates and others); E-Ticketing (online train, flight, bus ticket reservations); PMRY online registration; online passport registration; a village kiosk for transparent collectorate program, online communication providers for expatriate Indians; an online medical transcription course, with extension programs for all the above-mentioned services.\n\nIn the nineties of the last century [United Nations ratings for the different regions of the world recorded Kerala as an economic miracle. In several social parameters the State was at par with the developed West. This unbelievable feat was achieved in spite of a lesser per capita income and lack of industrial back up. The great economist Amarthya Sen attributed this achievement to the spread of education to a wider level in Kerala society. A section of educated among Keralites utilised the services of information technology for further economic development. But the vast majority did not take to this technology for consolidating and furthering the achievements on the social front. A digital divide developed in the State as elsewhere between a minority that could use information technology for development and the majority that could not do so. Planners in the socio-economic front sooner realised that the consolidation of socio economic development in Kerala was possible only by removing the digital divide in the society. The vast majority of the populace have to be equipped with the tools of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) to achieve tangible progress. The less privileged sections had to be empowered with ICT. Those at the helms in the three-tier panchayat system in the State realized the importance of ICT for socio-economic development and they came forward with plan proposals and programmes to bring information technology to common households. Meanwhile, Government constituted the State Information Technology Mission for achieving transparency and speed in administration so as to make it more responsive to the needs of the people and for grass roots level application of information technology as part of social engineering for development.\n\nThe IT policy of the Government besides providing for specific initiatives for ICT industry within the State laid emphasis on using ICT in all walks of life to improve living standards. One area identified was government itself. The Task Force on IT implementation in government also recommended to adopt a strategy of administrative reforms-based computerisation simultaneously with highly visible and immediately penetrable citizen-centric projects. The approach to citizen interface was based on the assumption that all direct Government – citizen interactions can be IT-enabled and can be categorised as making payments, getting entitlements, getting providing information and grievance redressal, etc. The implementation of State e-governance projects such as FRIENDS and Information Kerala Mission are examples. In spite of the good social and digital infrastructure ICT and internet penetration in Kerala was comparatively low. Some early attempts for grass root level ICT application did not make much headway.\n\nDuring this period lots of programmes were initiated worldwide to address digital divide and to familiarise the tools of Information and Communication Technologies to the common man, which were also discussed in Kerala but limited to academic circles. Computer literacy was becoming the buzzword and many local bodies, NGOs and private computer institutes started offering courses and programmes in computer software like Microsoft, DOS Word and Excel. But the IT policy of the government required that the government should intervene to take the benefits of IT to the grass roots level.\n\nNow, some of the local bodies in the three tier Panchayat system came forward with valuable project proposals for computer education at the grass root level. The proposal submitted by Malappuram District Panchayat had many notable features. Even from an international perspective such a massive computer education programme as was suggested in the proposal had not been attempted till then. Many international projects were limited to village level. The details of the project proposal had to be thrashed out for clarity. After a few round of discussions, a small team consisting of six members were formed in KSITM to study various ICT modules for development projects, implementation plans, business model etc. for the initiative.\n\nDiscussions about the project led to the important finding that e-literacy was one of the most important components of any such project. A two-pronged approach was needed. While providing computer facilities in the rural areas focus must be given to impart education to the citizens to make use of those facilities. On the basis of further deliberations it was decided to provide a user-friendly content/courseware to the citizens to educate them on the uses of ICT. Creation of functional e-literacy was thus found to be a pre requisite.\n\nAs a preparatory measure for the implementation of the project several meetings with the participation of District Panchayat, Block Panchayats, Grama Panchayats, Municipalities and organisation like C-DIT were held. A survey in Malapuram district was held to assess the requirements. 6.5 lakh houses were visited as part of the survey. Spatial mapping was done with the help of Town and Country Planning Department to identify locations to establish the centre of the project.\n\nEstablishment of Akshaya-e-Kendra as an ICT access point, one for every 1000 families living in two/three municipal or Panchayat wards was the most important strategic decision. Other details chalked out for implementation were:\n\nAkshaya e-centres were envisaged to have five computers and other infrastructure at a cost of Rs. 3-4 lakhs per centre and they were to be within 2-3 Kilometre distance from every household.\nEntrepreneurs from the locality with service orientation were to be selected, on the social entrepreneurship model for running the centres.\nAt least one person from every family was to be given training for ten days. It was planned that the local bodies should fund this e-literacy initiative Rs. 140 was fixed as tuition fee for 15 hour training programme (Grama Panchayat Rs. 80, Block Panchayat Rs. 20, Dist. Panchayat Rs. 20, beneficiary fee Rs. 20) Strategies were evolved for the involvement of community, civil society organisations, youth and welfare organisations, local bodies, etc. for implementation.\nPositioning Social Animators for linking Akshaya centres, citizens, local bodies and government\nStrategies for establishing connectivity, creation of locally relevant content etc.\nPositioning of District Project Team in Malappuram\nThe Akshaya pilot project was launched at Trivandrum by Dr. A.P. Abdul Kalam, His Excellency, the President of India on November 18, 2002.\n\nAkshaya was conceived as a landmark ICT project by the Kerala State Information Technology Mission (KSITM) to bridge the digital divide and to bring the benefits of ICT to the entire population of the State. In the initial phase the focus was placed on educating one person in each family to be e-literate. Malappuram, a backward district of Kerala was selected for piloting e-literacy and project was launched on 18 November 2002 by the Honorable President APJ Abdul Kalam. Till date Akshaya has been able to make 3.25 Million families e-literate.\n\nWhen many renowned organizations came up with computer education Akshaya changed its direction to citizen delivery. Now Akshaya has emerged as one of the finest common service center networks in the nation.\n\nRSBY Health Insurance Policy for 2 crore Population: Registered 160 thousand APL families and 2.8 million BPL families. Renewal of policy for 2.9millionfamilies. Akshaya’s performance to register 20lacs families in RSBY within 45 days through proactive citizen service is unparalleled compared to the similar venture of third party agents who has registered 15 lacs families in one year.\n\n5.5 million citizens enrolled under UID through Akshaya Centers: In UID Enrollment Akshaya has the highest quality of 92.7% against the national average of 62%. Akshaya is also a premier agency in UID Enrollment having generated 75% of total UIDs in Kerala.\n\nPartnership with Commercial Taxes helped Kerala to achieve 100% VAT Returns.\n\nIntel Learn Program covered 100 thousand school children.\n\nGovernment of India selected to provide consultancy service to Union Territory of Lakshadweep to launch CSCs. Akshaya has so far succeeded to launch CSCs in Lakshadweep in a time bound manner followed by roll out of e-literacy and G2C services.\n\nInclusive Development\n\nBy reaching the remote rural locations of the State on a sustainable basis, and offering a variety of world-class services, the Akshaya e-centres would encourage social inclusion of hitherto hereby marginalized communities and under-privileged sections of the rural society.\n\nThe project opens up immense opportunities for women participation at various levels as entrepreneurs, master trainers, social animators and finally as trainees etc. The higher level of response from women sector is due to the factor that the project creates opportunities at their doorsteps.\n\nWomen Participation and Empowerment: The Project has brought to the fore the enormous managerial and entrepreneurial talent of women that remains untapped. The number of women who have come forward with the choice of an entrepreneurial career by starting an Akshaya e-centre is significant. The women entrepreneurs account for around 33% of the total entrepreneurs of the project selected in the first level in seven districts.\n\nVillages Being Transformed: It has not been uncommon for villagers to travel long distances to district/taluk headquarters in order to obtain copies of public records, submit applications, meet officials, or to seek information regarding their day-to-day needs or to enquire prevailing prices in commodity markets etc. This involves the loss of a day's income as well as the cost of transportation. Once at the government office, the relevant record, information, or official could be unavailable, forcing repeated visits and additional expenses. In effect, government officials working with paper records enjoy a monopoly over information. Villagers may also face discomfort, harassment, and corruption on the part of public officials, or are often given incorrect information about government programs or market prices. In fact, compared to urban populace, the rural people were often forced to pay a disproportionate share of their income for gathering information.\n\nIn this context, much has been said about the potential use of Information and Communications Technology (ICT) by government agencies to transform relations with citizens and businesses. Increased transparency, less corruption, better delivery of government services, greater government responsiveness and accountability, and empowerment of citizens – especially poor ones – are commonly cited among the possible benefits of e-governance.\n\nBut, in villages, direct ownership and use of ICT – for instance through a PC with internet access – applies only to a very minimal fraction of the population. Although the availability of content in local languages and the use of graphic and voice interfaces can make e-government applications more accessible to rural people, illiteracy and low levels of education are powerful obstacles to the use of computers and other ICT tools. It follows that, in most cases, rural people have to rely on a human intermediary between them and ICT applications.\n\nIt was under this context that the Government of Kerala conceived the Project – Akshaya – for the benefit of people in the State, especially rural population. Access to information, backed with relevant infrastructure and services, not only allows rural populace to improve its quality of life but also support and supplement its existing incomes in a sustainable way. Access to information and services like e-governance, micro-credit, literacy, education, health, etc., can provide a solid foundation for the economic prosperity of rural villages. Moreover, it is a well-stated fact that rural consumers are willing to pay for products and services that meet their needs and are offered at affordable prices. Therefore, what needs is a new social contract – in which there will be common access infrastructure, provided at commercial prices rather than given for free.\n\nAkshaya Project is an enormous step towards making the Government accessible to citizens, in ways that can not only save huge costs to the Government but also make it more transparent and efficient in its day-to-day interactions with the common man. To that effect, the role of Akshaya e-centres, envisioned as the front-end delivery network for Government services is remarkable for the strides it has already made.\n\nAkshaya Project envisages to be a bottom-up model for imparting e-literacy training, delivery of content, services, information and knowledge, that can allow like-minded public and private enterprises – through a collaborative framework – to integrate their goals of profit as well as social objectives, into a sustainable business model for achieving rapid socio-economic change in rural villages of the State.\n\nAs stated above 2328 e-centres out of 2662 Akshaya e-centres (87.50%) are in rural areas. This is going to be enhanced to 3180 in the near future thus covering every part of the State, even the remotest villages. The very first target of the Project is to train one person from 64 families of the State thereby empowering rural population in using the advantages of ICT for their day-to-day applications. This has started creating a knowledge power to bridge the ‘digital divide’. The value additions thus gained are certainly augmenting the well being and overall economic development of rural populace in the State.\n\nAkshaya won the 2005 Prix Ars Electronica in the \"Digital Communities\" category.\n<br>\n\nCurrently a wide variety of services delivering through Akshaya Centres.Some projects are following:\n\n"}
{"id": "6786850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6786850", "title": "Allegra Kent", "text": "Allegra Kent\n\nAllegra Kent (born August 11, 1937) is an American ballet dancer, actress, children's book author and columnist.\n\nIris Margo Cohen was born to Jewish parents, Harry Herschel and Shirley (née Weissman) Cohen, and later changed her name to Allegra Kent. Kent grew up in what she later described as a dysfunctional environment. In \"Once a Dancer: An Autobiography\", she describes her Texan father – \"who liked to substitute 'Cowboy' for Herschel\" – as having \"a gambler's soul and a restless nature\". She describes her Wisznice-born immigrant mother as feeling \"neither European nor American; she was ashamed of her [own] parents. She borrowed a neighbor's working papers and took a job at twelve. By fourteen, she was teaching ballroom dancing at night in someone's private home, mostly to Japanese men\".\n\nBorn in Santa Monica, Kent studied with Bronislava Nijinska and Carmelita Maracci before joining the School of American Ballet. She discovered music and dance at the age of 7 and enjoyed both, but she was 11 before she took her first ballet lesson. She had completely flat feet as a little girl and consulted a doctor, who prescribed wedges in her shoes to give her arches. She then began taking ballet.\n\nAfter graduating, she joined the New York City Ballet in 1953 at the age of 15, and was promoted to principal in 1957. Many roles in George Balanchine's ballets were created for her, including \"Seven Deadly Sins\", \"Ivesiana\" and \"Bugaku\". She danced the role of Dewdrop in the 1958 Playhouse 90 telecast of Balanchine's version of \"The Nutcracker\".\n\nShe performed in such ballets as \"Serenade\", \"Agon\" and \"Dances at a Gathering\". She retired in 1981, becoming a ballet teacher, and in 1997 published an autobiography, \"Once a Dancer\". In 2012, Kent published her first book for children, \"Ballerina Swan\", with Holiday House Books for Young People, illustrated by Caldecott Medalist Emily Arnold McCully. It has received good reviews from \"The New York Times\",\"Kirkus Reviews\", and \"School Library Journal\". She eventually had plastic surgery on her nose and chin at the insistence of her mother in an attempt to make her look \"less Jewish\". The operation was botched and Kent fell into a deep depression because of it. Balanchine dropped several roles for her because of it.\n\nIn 2013, \"Ballerina Swan\" was adapted for the stage as a dance piece by New York City Children's Theater, featuring choreographer Michael McGowan and artistic director Barbara Zinn Krieger. The adaptation received positive reviews by \"The New York Times\", \"Time Out New York Kids\", and others. Due to its success, in December 2015, New York City Children's Theater produced a revival of \"Ballerina Swan.\"\n\nKent currently teaches ballet at Barnard College.\n\nNotes\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "10389453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10389453", "title": "Aquila (children's magazine)", "text": "Aquila (children's magazine)\n\nAquila is an educational children's magazine that offers an alternative to mainstream publications. It is for boys and girls of 8-13 and features puzzles, fun facts and activities - and is advert-free. Each issue revolves mainly around a specific topic, for example Captain Cook, Science Special, The Equator and Medieval Times - all covered in 2013. The \"lively and informative\" magazine is aimed at bright pre-teenagers interested in hobbies beyond pop music and soaps, who \"need to be able to feel good about themselves\" and to realise that \"there are other children out there like them\" according to D J Taylor's article in \"The Telegraph\" in 2003. It was established in 1993 and is owned and run by New Leaf Publishing Ltd, a small independent publishing house situated in the coastal town of Eastbourne in the UK. ATE Superweeks, a UK summer camp provider, works in association with Aquila magazine to run an annual summer camp. In 2012 the camp was called The Eco-Venture and had a focus on the environment.\n\nAquila peers into the past...\n\nJust Think\n\nScience Scene\n\nThings to make\n\nAstra's Guide To Space\n\nOur World\n\nBrainfeeders\n\nBook Club\n\nStory \n\nAquila News (previously Over To You)\n\nPen Friend Club\n\nCompetitions\n\nWordworm\n\nMagic Maths (previously Fun with Maths)\n\nIt's The Law\n\nOn Track\n\nIn Tune\n\nPaws for thought\n"}
{"id": "15406859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15406859", "title": "Austin Chick", "text": "Austin Chick\n\nAustin Chick (born 1974) is an American film director, screenwriter and producer, who made the films \"XX/XY\", released in 2002, and \"August\", which premiered at the 2008 Sundance Film Festival.\n\nAlthough born in Hartford, Connecticut, Chick moved to New Hampshire as a youngster. In the late 1980s he attended high school at High Mowing School, a boarding school in Wilton, NH. He went on to Sarah Lawrence College in Yonkers, where he specialized in literature and psychology with the aid of grants from the King Foundation. Chick spent a number of years unsure of what he wanted to do with his life and took on a life of a wanderer for some time. He said watching \"Kings of the Road\" helped him find direction:.\n\nIn 1998, Chick graduated in cinematography from SUNY Purchase Film School in Purchase, New York.\n\nHis first major film, which he wrote and directed, was released in 2002. It was titled \"XX/XY\", and it starred Mark Ruffalo and Kathleen Robertson. It examined the complex relationship between three Sarah Lawrence College students, both during their time at the school and then many years later. It was an independent production, which was shown at the 2002 Sundance Film Festival (where it was nominated for the Grand Jury Prize) and subsequently taken up by IFC Films.\n\nHe co-produced Sidney Lumet's 2007 film \"Before the Devil Knows You're Dead\", which featured Ethan Hawke and Philip Seymour Hoffman as two brothers who stage the robbery of their parents' jewelry shop in an effort to get rich quick, with tragic consequences.\n\nHe then produced a movie called \"August\", was released by ContentFilm International in 2008. The cast list is headed by Josh Hartnett, and features Adam Scott, Naomie Harris, Rip Torn, and David Bowie. The plot centered on two brothers, with one of them, Tom (Hartnett), involved in a struggle to save his internet company on the stock market just before the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Chick directed the film and was also executive producer.\n\nIn 2012, he wrote and directed \"Girls Against Boys\" (starring Danielle Panabaker and Nicole LaLiberte); it was released by Anchor Bay Entertainment in 2012.\n\nChick married actress Morena Baccarin over Thanksgiving in 2011. Their son Julius was born October 22, 2013, in Glendale, California. Chick filed for divorce in 2015, citing irreconcilable differences.\n\n"}
{"id": "2953343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2953343", "title": "Canadian Heritage Information Network", "text": "Canadian Heritage Information Network\n\nThe Canadian Heritage Information Network (CHIN) is a Government of Canada-supported organization that provides a networked interface to Canada's heritage. CHIN is a Special Operating Agency within the Citizenship and Heritage sector of the Department of Canadian Heritage. It serves as a national centre of expertise to more than 1,600 museums and other member heritage institutions across Canada, and it aims to give access to Canada's heritage for both Canadians and a worldwide audience, by supporting the development, presentation and preservation of Canada's digital heritage. CHIN is based in Gatineau (until 2002, Hull), in Quebec.\n\nCHIN also provides Canada's not-for-profit heritage sector with research, products, services and fora that support skills and career development, and content development and presentation. It oversees the Virtual Museum of Canada (VMC), and the VMC Investment Programs. CHIN manages a Professional Exchange portal for heritage professionals and volunteers.\n\nIn French, CHIN is known as the \"Réseau canadien d'information sur le patrimoine\" (RCIP). It provides bilingual information for all its resources.\n\nCHIN was the first national organization to participate in the Virtual Library museums pages (VLmp) online museums directory, now supported by ICOM.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5788114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5788114", "title": "Claire Fagin", "text": "Claire Fagin\n\nClaire Mintzer Fagin, RN, Ph.D, FAAN (born November 25, 1926) is an American nurse, educator, academic, and consultant. She has a bachelor's degree in Science from Wagner College, a Master's in Nursing from Columbia University and a Ph.D from New York University, all in New York City. Dr. Fagin is considered to be the founder of Family centered care and is the first woman to serve as President of an Ivy-League University.\n\nFagin was the daughter of Mae and Harry Mintzer, immigrants to New York City. Her parents wished for her to become a physician like her aunt, who was a dermatologist in Queens. She elected to study nursing at Wagner College and earned a doctorate at New York University. Her doctoral dissertation covered the concept of \"rooming in\" for parents of hospitalized children. She continued her research in this area, which influenced the perception of parental visitation in hospitals.\n\nShe served as Dean of the School of Nursing at the University of Pennsylvania from 1977 to 1992, when she left to do geriatric nursing research as a Scholar in Residence at the Institute of Medicine, National Academy of Sciences. She was Presidential Chair in early 1993 at the University of California, San Francisco.\n\nIn 1993 she was named interim president of the University of Pennsylvania (from July 1, 1993 to June 30, 1994), the first woman to serve in the capacity of a university president with any Ivy League university. She continued to focus on geriatric nursing after returning to the professoriate in 1994 and has done so ever since. In 2005 she completed five years as director of the \"John A. Hartford Foundation Program: Building Academic Geriatric Nursing Capacity\", which is coordinated in Washington, D.C., at the American Academy of Nursing. She is a past president of the American Orthopsychiatric Association.\n\nShe is Leadership Professor Emerita, Dean Emerita at the University of Pennsylvania and has received 15 honorary doctoral degrees as well as the prestigious Honorary Recognition Award of the American Nurses Association. On November 30, 2006, the nursing education building at the University of Pennsylvania was renamed Claire M. Fagin Hall.\n\nShe is an Honorary Fellow of the UK Royal College of Nursing, was inducted into the American Nurses Association Hall of Fame in 2010) and is a member of the Institute of Medicine, the American Academy of Nursing, the Century Association and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She is currently on the Board of Trustees of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York.\n\nFagin and her husband, Samuel Fagin, have two sons.\n\n"}
{"id": "49897098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49897098", "title": "Contemporary Education Dialogue", "text": "Contemporary Education Dialogue\n\nContemporary Education Dialogue is an open forum to sustain a critical engagement with issues in education. This journal nurtures the discipline and promotes inter-disciplinary perspectives.\n\nIt is published twice a year by SAGE Publications in association with Education Dialogue Trust.\n\n\"Contemporary Education Dialogue\" is abstracted and indexed in:\n\n"}
{"id": "23231492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23231492", "title": "Council for Economic Education", "text": "Council for Economic Education\n\nThe Council for Economic Education (the new name, since 2009 January, of the National Council on Economic Education) is an organization in the United States that focuses on the economic and financial education of students from kindergarten through high school.\n\nThe mission of the Council for Economic Education is to instill in young people the fourth “R”—a real-world understanding of economics and personal finance. It is only by acquiring economic and financial literacy that children can learn that there are better options for a life well lived, will be able to see opportunity on their horizon line and, ultimately, can grow into successful and productive adults capable of making informed and responsible decisions.\n\nHeadquartered in New York City, CEE provides classroom resources to K-12 teachers and students, free professional development to educators, webinars, standards and assessment tools, and guidance for advocacy and outreach.\n\nThe Council for Economic Education is working on a campaign to increase economic literacy.\n\nIt was reported in 2013 that five million K-12 students annually used the Council for Economic Education's personal-finance and economics education.\n\nThe Council for Economic Education measures through a biennial survey financial literacy education across the United States by state.\n\nThe National Economics Challenge (NEC) is a high school economics competition. Each year, over 11,000 students across the U.S. participate in the competition. The Challenge recognizes exceptional high school students for their knowledge of economic principles and their ability to apply problem-solving and critical-thinking skills to real-world events. \n\nThe National Economics Challenge is the only national competition of its kind, with students showcasing their knowledge of economics in a fun, challenging, and rewarding contest. The competition begins at the state level, with state champions advancing to the National Semi-Final round and the top performers subsequently advancing to the National Final round, which is held in New York City. Teams of four students answer rigorous questions on microeconomics, macroeconomics, international economics, and current events. At the National Final level, students complete rounds of multiple choice testing, work in teams to solve critical thinking case problems, and participate in a quick-paced oral quiz bowl in order to earn the title of National Economics Challenge Champions.\n\nThe National Economics Challenge offers a two-division contest format based on students’ economics coursework. The Adam Smith division is designed for students who are enrolled in Advanced Placement, international baccalaureate and honors economics courses. The David Ricardo division is fashioned for students who have received a general economics education, typically of one semester or less. The two-division system provides high school students of varying levels of economics practice with the chance to compete against their peers.\n\nThe Council for Economic Education sponsors the National Economics Challenge.\n\nThe Council for Economic Education released its National Content Standards in Personal Finance in March 2013 that are a personal finance course for high.\n\nThe Annual Conference is a nationwide meeting of K–12 educators, CEE affiliates from across the country, Federal Reserve partners, and other educators in this field. The conference features a selection of professional development workshops on economic and financial literacy geared for elementary, middle and high school levels. Topics include pedagogy and resources, curriculum strategy for schools/school districts, teaching strategies, assessment and research, new programs and best practices. In addition to the workshops, speakers address current economic and financial topics to enable educators to bring these perspectives back to their classrooms. The conference also features roundtable sessions led by master teachers to discuss shared issues and successes, and informal opportunities for networking.\n\nThe following is a partial list of donors to the Campaign for Economic Literacy. Each has donated at least 100,000 US Dollars to the Campaign.\n\nOther past contributors:\n\n"}
{"id": "26599407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26599407", "title": "Dalai Lama Center for Peace and Education", "text": "Dalai Lama Center for Peace and Education\n\nThe Dalai Lama Center for Peace and Education is an international charitable organization and education center located in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Established in 2005, the center describes its mission as \"educate the hearts of children by informing, inspiring and engaging the communities around them\".\n\nThe organization is advised by several prominent leaders involved in peace-making and has organized events centered on discussions of spirituality, climate change, the environment, peace and other topics.\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama's ties with Vancouver, Canada date from the early 1960s when Vancouver-based writer George Woodcock traveled to India to support Tibetan exiles and met the Dalai Lama. Over the years, the Dalai Lama visited Vancouver several times, in 1980, 1993, 2004, 2006 and 2009. The Dalai Lama's brother, Tendzin Choegyal, also has close ties with the city, having traveled there often to give speeches and teach.\n\nVictor Chan, a 30-year friend of the Dalai Lama, is founding director of the center. Chan co-authored a book with the Dalai Lama called, \"The Wisdom of Forgiveness\". According to the Dalai Lama, Vancouver was chosen as the center's location because it is \"multiethnic and multiracial population gives it harmony.\"\n\nThe center was formally inaugurated in September 2006 in Vancouver. The Dalai Lama, in attendance at the event, was awarded honorary Canadian citizenship by the government of Canada. Also attending the inauguration were Tim Shriver, Deepak Chopra, and Sonja Lyubomirsky. James Hoggan & Associates provided public relations services for the event.\n\nThe center originally announced its intention to have a permanent facility constructed by 2009. In a 2006 interview with the \"Vancouver Sun\", Chan explained that the center's facility would be 4,645 square meters and include an outdoor European-style piazza, Zen garden, bookstore, film-screening theater, performing arts theater, art gallery, library, and studios for classes or group discussions. Chan stated that the facility would highlight the Dalai Lama's international connections, invite guest speakers, host interfaith dialogues, and hold discussions on peaceful resolutions to conflicts. Chan added that half of the center's $60 million budget would go to operating costs, research, local programming, and an endowment, and the rest towards construction of the facility and a meditative retreat. As of March 2010, however, the center's website indicated that the organization had yet to construct a physical facility.\n\nIn a press release, the organization stated that its goals were to, \n\nThe Center added that it hopes to achieve this goal by promoting human values and stressing a sense of oneness with humanity.\n\nThe Center has an international advisory board which is chaired by the Dalai Lama and includes:\n\n<br>\nThe Center is overseen by six trustees, including:\n\nIn October 2006 the Center hosted an invitation-only discussion group with economist John Helliwell and neuro-physiologist Richard Davidson. The discussion centered on happiness.\n\nThe Center sponsored a summit in Vancouver in September 2009, called \"The Vancouver Peace Summit\". In various dialogues, including \"World Peace through Personal Peace\", \"Nobel Laureates in Dialogue\", and \"Educating the Heart\", speakers discussed spirituality, science, psychotherapy, the arts, business, and education. In attendance at the Summit were the Dalai Lama, Maria Shriver, Matthieu Ricard, Mary Robinson, Eckhart Tolle, Stephen Covey, Mairead Maguire, Betty Williams, Jody Williams, Murray Gell-Mann, and the Blue Man Group. The event was held at the Chan Centre for the Performing Arts and the Orpheum and was attended by 5,000 people.\n\nThe Dalai Lama returned to Vancouver in October, 2014 to take part in a panel discussion with Kimberly Schonert-Reichl, Tamara Vrooman and Janet Austen, with special guest Peter Senge. The focus of the discussion was the advancement of Heart-Mind well-being in children and youth.\n\nSince its creation in 2005, the Dalai Lama Center for Peace and Education (DLC) has hosted a number of events. \nOne of the Center’s programs is the Speakers Series, focusing on areas of interest to the Dalai Lama and the Center. These include science and its relationship to spirituality, education of the heart and related research, and the development of compassion and its contribution to the public good. Public events are held throughout the year.\n\nIn June 2010 the Speakers Series guests included John Helliwell, UBC Professor Emeritus of Economics and Officer of the Order of Canada; Dr Elizabeth Dunn, assistant professor in the UBC Department of Psychology; and Bill Harbaugh, economics professor at the University of Oregon, for a discussion on “Money, Generosity and Happiness.” The panelists presented their latest research from economics, social psychology and neuroscience. They discussed altruism, charitable giving, and factors that promote well-being and happiness in individuals and society.\n\nIn March Jody Williams gave an intimate talk about the work of herself and her colleagues to ban landmines, recognized by the Nobel Peace Prize. Williams also spoke promoting human rights through the work of the Nobel Women’s Initiative.\nEarlier that month psychologist Paul Ekman made a presentation on “Darwin, the Dalai Lama and the Nature of Compassion.”\n\nThroughout 2007–2009, the Speakers Series hosted Marc Brackett, Arthur Zajonc, Daniel Goleman, Robert Putnam, Stephen G. Post, Reginald Ray, Daniel Siegel, and Richard Davidson.\nThe DLC often co-sponsors events with other organizations, such as the Vancouver Board of Trade and Hollyhock Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "8210983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8210983", "title": "Detroit (video game)", "text": "Detroit (video game)\n\nDetroit is a turn-based business simulation game that puts one in charge of a fledgling automobile company starting in 1908 (the year the Ford Model T was introduced). The player is responsible for the financing, research and development, design, testing, production, and marketing of automobile product lines. The aim of the game is to be the most profitable automobile business in the world after 100 years.\n\nThe game is named after the American city of Detroit which is nicknamed \"Motor City\" due to the concentration of American automobile manufacturers in the city during the 20th century.\n\nThe player starts off with a factory and a number of distributors. The player is always set against three competitors, which can be either human or computer. The game tends to follow common steps in a project lifecycle which involves the planning of a product, development of a product, testing of a product and its release to the public. The player is expected to follow this process whenever they wish to develop a new automobile.\n\nEach turn is one month, and the game lasts approximately 100 years. At the start of each month, the player is presented with a money ledger showing the prior month's business. At this time newspapers also announce if cars are doing well or if there are special world events. World events that vastly effect gameplay are: World War I, The Great Depression, World War II, and the energy crisis of the 1970s. Most of these events negatively affect demand for all cars, with the exception of the energy crisis which targets low-mileage vehicles.\n\nIf at any time the player is bankrupt for long enough, the game ends with a scene of the player's avatar jumping out of a window.\n\nThe different aspects of the business are covered by different buildings at the factory (which is actually a pictorial representation of the main menu). Clicking on one of these buildings will bring up the following departments:\n\nThe manager's office acts as the player's interface to the numbers end of the business. Available from here is financial data concerning car models, factory production numbers, competition information, car reviews, and more. The player can manage the number of employees at factories, hire and fire new employees for factories, manage salaries (especially important to keep workers from striking), and commission reports to find out more about their automobiles.\n\nA unique feature available in the manager's office is the ability to print most reports to the computer's printer.\n\nThe research and development screen allows the player to invest their researchers into fields of development. These fields range from aesthetic changes such as body shape) to more technical ones such as new engines, suspension, brakes, safety and luxury features. The game references many real-world auto features as the fields progress, such as \"drum brakes\", \"windshield wipers\", and more.\n\nOne of the core parts of the gameplay is the ability to design new vehicles. Designing the body involves choosing what type of automobile (car, truck, etc.) and then three main sections of the car: the front, middle, and rear. Color can also be specified but has no discernible impact on the sales or reviews of the car.\n\nAs the player's research and development team develops more advanced features for the car, they become available on the design screen. However, all the parts have an associated cost and drive up the cost of the vehicle. They also affect the test results of the car. As time progresses, the public will demand different styles of car. For example, in the energy crisis, consumers will demand more fuel efficient cars. Ultimately it can be a game of trial-and-error finding a vehicle that the public likes.\n\nDuring the testing phase the car is tested and then given a rating for handling in a corner, braking, acceleration, capacity (cargo and passenger), fuel economy, and safety. Generally, the better performance of the car, the more likely its success, especially if it conforms to the demands of the time or excels against the competition.\n\nThe manufacturing and sales screen allows the player to manage the production and distribution of vehicles. A world map of territories is displayed, whereby the player can click individual territories to display the factory and showroom in a territory. Here one can open or close down new factories and showrooms or upgrade the level of factories to make them more productive. Supply routes between factories and showrooms are also set and prioritized on this screen. The price of vehicles in each territory can also be set here.\n\nHere the player can invest funds into marketing of vehicles through various forms of media. Some will be more effective than others depending in which year the player is at in the game. Examples of media one can advertise with include billboards, newspapers, women's magazines, radio and television.\n\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" rated \"Detroit\" two stars out of five. Describing it as \"a puzzle game rather than a true strategy game\", the magazine criticized the fixed demand values, repetitive gameplay, and unrealistic depiction of historical events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924211", "title": "Deutsches Forschungsnetz", "text": "Deutsches Forschungsnetz\n\nDeutsches Forschungsnetz (\"German Research Network\"), usually abbreviated to DFN, is the German national research and education network (NREN) used for academic and research purposes. It is managed by the scientific community organized in the voluntary association \"Verein zur Förderung eines Deutschen Forschungsnetzes e.V.\" which was founded in 1984 by universities, non-university research institutions and research-oriented companies to stimulate computerized communication in Germany.\n\nDFN's \"super core\" backbone X-WiN network points of presence are based in Erlangen, Frankfurt, Hannover and Potsdam. These sites run Cisco CRS-1 routers and are interconnected with each other by two 10 Gigabit Ethernet connections.\n\nAll upstream connections (to networks such as GÉANT2 (in Frankfurt), DECIX) are 10G-based and are implemented at the super core. All other routers on the network are Cisco 7609-based and always linked to two other network routers.\n\nWiN is short for Wissenschaftsnetz (\"science network\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56072876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56072876", "title": "Dodici Azpadu", "text": "Dodici Azpadu\n\nDodici Azpadu (born ) is one of the few American novelists writing from a distinctly Sicilian-American and lesbian perspective. She has also published several volumes of poetry.\n\nAzpadu was born in the Red Hook neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York, in the 1940s. Her family emigrated from the Kalsa, an \"Arab ghetto\" in Palermo. She earned a bachelor's degree from St. Joseph's College in New York, a Master of Fine Arts degree at the Iowa Writer's Workshop, where she studied with José Donoso, and a Ph.D. in English Language and Literature at Pacific Western University. She has taught at Gannon College, The University of New Mexico's Honors College, and Central New Mexico Community College. She lives in Albuquerque, New Mexico, where she teaches creative writing.\n\nHer poetry, short stories, and other writings have appeared in many literary journals, including \"Off Our Backs\", \"The Found Poetry Review\", and \"Sinister Wisdom\"; and in anthologies, such as \"Hey Paesan! Writing by Lesbians and Gay Men of Italian Descent\" (1999), \"Centos: A Collection of Collage Poems\" (2011), and Mary Jo Bona's \"The Voices We Carry: Recent Italian American Women's Fiction\" (2007). She received a teaching fellowship from the A Room of Her Own Foundation (AROHO) in 2013. Her third novel, \"Living Room\", was named one of the best LGBT books of 2011 by publisher Carol Seajay of the Feminist Press. Azpadu's unique contribution to Italian-American literature has been noted by leading scholars in the field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24082471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24082471", "title": "Education in Malta", "text": "Education in Malta\n\nEducation in Malta is compulsory through age sixteen and is offered through three different providers: the state, the church, and the private sector. The state is responsible for promoting education and instruction and ensuring universal access to education for all Maltese citizens the existence of a system of schools and institutions accessible to all Maltese citizens. The objectives of education in Malta include intellectual and moral development and the preparation of every citizen to contribute productively to the national economy. Although Maltese citizens had access to education during the Arab administration of 870 to 1090, the arrival of a number of religious orders in the following four centuries brought religious-based education to the island for wealthy families. The arrival of the Knights Hospitaller saw the establishment of the University of Malta, around which a number of primary, secondary and post-secondary institutions were established. Education in Malta has been universally available at the primary level since the ejection of the Knights Hospitaller by the French in 1798, when state-funded elementary schooling was established. In 1878, English replaced Italian as the primary language of instruction, and education was made compulsory in 1946 in response to a number of children not attending school due to poverty between World Wars One and Two. The age at which education became compulsory was lowered to five years in 1988.\n\nMalta's educational system is divided into four stages: pre-primary (ages 3–5), primary (ages 5–11), secondary (ages 11–16) and tertiary. Pre-primary education is optional but fully funded by the state. In their last ten years of primary education, students are placed on tracks based on educational attainment, and at the age of eleven, students sit an eleven plus examination to eliminate a student's secondary schooling direction. Success in the eleven plus exam places a student in a junior lyceum - a prestigious secondary school - while mediocre performance or not sitting the examination places a student in a less competitive secondary school. Secondary Education Certificate (NEC) examinations are taken at age 16, and matriculation examinations are taken at age 18 to determine university entrance eligibility. In 2008, 26,711 primary students, 25,793 secondary students, 5,719 post-secondary students, 9,472 tertiary students and 6,268 vocational students were enrolled in educational courses in Malta. Approximately 30 per cent of Malta's primary and secondary school students are enrolled in private schools, most of which are operated by the Catholic Church. Malta's highest post-secondary institution is the University of Malta, which has operated since 1552\n\nWhile education in Malta dates back to the period of Arab occupation between 870 and 1090 through the introduction of Arabic numerals, the arrival of the Franciscans in 1350, the Carmelites in 1418, the Dominican Order in 1450, the Augustinians in 1460 and the Friars Minor in 1492 brought religious-based education to the island. Members of these groups were asked to serve as private tutors for the children of wealthy parents, and later moved to set up classes for instruction in Italian, Latin and numeracy. In 1592, the Collegium Melitense (what was to become the University of Malta) was established by the Society of Jesus as a result of a direct order from Pope Clements VIII, and around this institution a number of others flourished, including a grammar school, a preparatory school and institutions for the study of cartography, naval architecture and navigation. In addition to public options, it was possible to hire private tutors in a number of different areas, including accounting, philosophy, navigation and languages. During this period, however, education for those without wealth was non-existent. During the 16th century, philosophy, theology, grammar and the humanities were taught at the Collegium, and following Europe's temporary recovery from the Black Death in 1675, the Grand Master of the Knights Hospitaller appointed a new lecturer in anatomy and surgery at Sacra Infermeria, essentially establishing the University of Malta's medical school. The Roman Catholic Church, however, was against educating the lower classes and focused on those who afforded to pay. This resulted in mass illiteracy by the end of the Order of St John and took until the second half of the 19th century, under British rule, to have a sprint towards further inclusion.\n\nThe ejection of the Knights Hospitaller by the French Republic in 1798 brought a reformation of the educational system with it due to the disparity between the traditional ideals of the Knights and the revolutionary ideals of the French. Private schooling was banned, elementary schooling was introduced and funded by the state, and adult education was introduced. The gradual introduction of universal education for primary school students was an ideal born before and during the French Revolution, while private schools were abolished due to their traditional association with the Catholic Church, an institution rejected by those involved in the Revolution. In addition, Napoleon I abolished the University of Malta just five days after his ejection of the Knights, although this decision was reversed after the British ejected the French the following year. In 1799, Malta fell under the jurisdiction of the United Kingdom, and attempts were made to adjust Malta's institutions towards a British style. \n\nUnder Government Ponsonby, in 1833, the Catholic Church in Malta was staunchly against public education; the only effort done by the priesthood is to demand people not to accept education or be condemned by excommunication, together with other religious consequences.\nOn 1 February 1846 education became effectively compulsory till the age of 14. In 1847, elementary schooling was changed to the British model, schools were opened in every village and education was made free of charge. In 1878, the mode of language education delivery changed following the publication of two reports on the matter. Italian language education was replaced by instruction in the English language, and the use of Maltese was encouraged in the primary years. However, English was the language in which education was delivered at all stages of education following primary school. Debate continued until the 1930s over which language should be used in Maltese education - Italian or English.\n\nDuring World War I, the interwar years and World War II, widespread poverty in Malta prevented the children of the lower classes from pursuing basic education in favor of staying home to assist parents with agricultural work and other income earning activities. To counteract this phenomenon, education was declared compulsory in 1946. In 1964, Malta became an independent nation, and in 1988 a new Education Act was passed, lowering the compulsory education age to five years, decentralising educational decision making and establishing a right for any person to apply for a licence to open a school. The Faculty of Arts, Sciences and Theology at the University of Malta was also reinstated.\n\nIn 2008, 26,711 primary students, 25,793 secondary students, 5,719 post-secondary students, 9,472 tertiary students and 6,268 vocational students were enrolled in educational courses in Malta. Approximately 30 per cent of students of school age attend private schools, most of which are operated by the Catholic Church. In 2009, 34.9 per cent of the population between 18 and 24 years of age had not completed secondary school, while in 2008 92 per cent of the population was considered literate. Malta ranks equal eleventh in the world on the national IQ scale.\n\nThe compulsory education period in Malta has been between five and 16 years of age since the introduction of the \"Education Act 1988\". This is an increase from up to 12 years of age in 1924 (in this year, school \"attendance\" became compulsory for those already enrolled - the act of enrollment itself was not compulsory) and 14 years of age in 1946, when compulsory school attendance was introduced for all students, enrolled or otherwise. Compulsory schooling has always applied to both males and females during its existence.\n\nSchooling is compulsory from the age of five, although free-of-charge kindergarten is available to all students beginning at age three. Approximately 94 per cent of three- and four-year-olds attend kindergarten. A number of private operators exist, but free state-run institutions are also popular. State-run Maltese kindergartens are required to have one staff member present for every ten children present, while this ratio decreases to 1:20 for independently run institutions. During the kindergarten years, the focus is on play, not formal education. From kindergarten, students transition to primary school, which is compulsory from the age of five. Since 1980, all state-run primary schools have been co-educational, with many independent schools following suit. However, church-run primary schools are usually single-sex. Classes usually have a limit of thirty students, and a minimum teacher to student ratio has been set at 1:19 in all schools, whether they be state-run, church-run or independent.\n\nFormal end-of-year examinations commence starting in Year 4 to dictate class streaming arrangements for the following year. Students are examined in English, Maltese, mathematics, religion and social studies. Despite the fact that eleven-plus examinations highlight inequality and failures, and are recognized as ineffective educational tools by experts, Malta still implements such exams. In Year 6, when most pupils have turned eleven years of age, an eleven-plus exam is given to students to determine which students attend which secondary schools. Students are tested in English language, Maltese language, mathematics, social studies and religion; the latter is optional for those not adhering to the faith taught in schools. While 73 per cent of eleven-year-old students sat the eleven-plus exam in 2001, only about 54 percent pass it each year. Students achieving success in the eleven-plus exam go on to attend prestigious 'junior lyceums' during their secondary years, whilst those who do not attend 'area secondary schools'. This is similar to the operation of the Tripartite System in the United Kingdom following World War II.\n\nState-run junior lyceums and area secondary schools are single-sex. Junior lyceums are divided into two grade stages. The first stage is an introductory stage, and runs for the first two years of secondary schooling. Students study essentially the same subjects with very limited curriculum options in order to provide a good grounding for future studies. Following the two-year introductory cycle, a three-year specialist stage occurs during which students study a common core curriculum as well as a number of elective subjects. This orientation is similar at area secondary schools, although the introductory period is longer, at three years in duration, and the final specialist period is shorter, at two years. The staff-student ratio is set at 1:11, and the school leaving age is 16.\n\nExaminations in Maltese secondary schools are taken at both age 16 and 18, with the latter being a final optional set of matriculation examinations. The examinations taken at age 16 are the Secondary Education Certificate (SEC) exams, which have operated since 1994, before which the GCE Ordinary Level was used as a secondary certificate examination. The examinations taken at 18, those enabling entry into university, are the Matriculation Certificate examinations, based on the International Baccalaureate. These examinations replaced the GCE Advanced Levels.\n\nA number of students travel to school using the nation's bus network, which is free for state school students to use. Schools in Malta generally begin their school day at 8:30am and finish at 2:40pm. Students receive three days of holidays in November 15 days of holidays over Christmas, two days of holidays in March and eight days of holidays in April, in addition to public holidays. Maltese school students receive the highest number of days off of all school students in Europe, with 90 days during the 2010-11 academic year being non-school days. This is 14 days more than the European average of 76. Virtually all Maltese state schools run tuck shops, while some secondary schools are home to cafeterias.\n\nState schools provide textbooks free of charge to their students, while private schools generally require their students to pay for their textbooks, enabling the latter to change their textbooks and textbook editions more frequently. All primary schools have at least four computers, one printer, a large monitor and a teacher's laptop computer in their classrooms, while many secondary schools have specialised rooms necessary to teach subjects such as Home Economics and Food Technology. An average of 22.5 students are enrolled per primary school class, with the average rising to 24.3 in secondary school classes. Primary school teachers are expected to dedicate five hours per week to each of Maltese, English and mathematics, one hour per week to science, two hours per weeks to arts and crafts, two hours per week to social studies, one hour and 15 minutes per week to social studies, and two and a half hours per week to physical education and religion. State school syllabi at the secondary level are set by the local examination bodies.\n\nUnder the \"Education Act of 1988\", the Government of Malta is obligated to provide free university education to eligible residents with sufficient qualifications for entry. However, due to funding constraints, the University of Malta offers some courses only every other year in order to maximise course offerings with optimum funding usage. 10,000 students currently study at the University. Most Bachelor degree courses run for three years, including law, which in other common law countries is often lengthier.\n\nState-run education in Malta is administered at the national level of government, with the Minister for Education empowered to make orders, or 'Legal Notices', relating to the administration of education throughout the country. The Minister for Education is appointed by the President on advice of the Prime Minister and is responsible for a number of education-related government functions (such as the operation of schools and libraries) as well as tertiary education in the country. The Ministry of Education, the national government department responsible for education in Malta, is headed by a Permanent Secretary. The Education Division of the Ministry is responsible for setting a number of annual nationwide examinations, managing human resources in Malta's educational system, selecting school textbook lists, allocating students to schools based on area, managing the Ministry's educational finances and promoting a number of cultural, sporting and social activities. Malta's Ministry of Education is currently being decentralised with the aim of having schools managed at the local level.\n\nWith the exception of the currently occurring educational management decentralisation process, regional administration of education in Malta is limited. However, the island of Gozo does maintain a form of regional educational administration through the Ministry for Gozo. Although the Ministry for Education manages education throughout Malta, the Ministry for Gozo is responsible for the remuneration of the island's teaching staff. Local authorities such as Malta's numerous Local Councils have no official ties to Malta's educational system but often donate to local schools and maintain preschool building structures.\n\nPrimary and secondary school teachers begin their teacher education at the University of Malta by gaining a Bachelor of Education (Honours), which typically takes four years of study to achieve. To gain entry into the University to study primary or secondary education, students must not only meet the University's general entry requirements but also a number of other special course requirements. University students seeking to enter the teaching profession may also become qualified by gaining a postgraduate certificate in education. Two years of professional teaching practice is also generally required. The Minister for Education may also grant a temporary warrant to teach, valid for one year, to any person the Minister believes has the ability to teach in the country.\n\nIn 2007, teachers entering the workforce were paid a minimum of €14,291 per year, with the most experienced teachers being paid €19,371 per year. Heads of School received a minimum of €17,242 per year. In 2003-04, there were 8,964 teaching staff in Malta, of which 6,630 worked at state schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52964631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52964631", "title": "Fabiola Cabeza de Baca Gilbert", "text": "Fabiola Cabeza de Baca Gilbert\n\nFabiola Cabeza de Baca Gilbert (May 16, 1894 - October 14, 1991) was an American educator, nutritionist, activist and writer. Cabeza de Baca is also known as the inventor of the u-shaped fried taco shell. She was also the first known published author of a cookbook describing New Mexican cuisine. Cabeza de Baca was fluent in Spanish, English, Tewa and Tiwa.\n\nCabeza de Baca was part of a prominent New Mexican family and one of four siblings. She was a descendant of Spanish explorer, Alvar Nuñez Cabeza de Baca. Her paternal great-grandfather was awarded the title to the Las Vegas Grandes land grant in 1823. She was also related to the second Governor of New Mexico, Ezequiel Cabeza de Baca, who was her uncle. Cabeza de Baca was born in and lived part of her life Las Vegas, New Mexico. She also grew up on a ranch in La Liendre. Her mother died when she was four, and her paternal grandmother raised her afterwards. Her grandmother instilled the idea of \"\"nobless oblige\"\" in Cabeza de Baca. As a young woman, Cabeza de Baca \"refused to take on her 'proper' role as a Spanish lady\" and spent her time riding horses and watching the ranch men work. When she was twelve, she visited Spain.\n\nCabeza de Baca first attended a Catholic school, where she was expelled from Loreto Academy's kindergarten for slapping a nun. She later went to New Mexico Normal College, where she earned her teaching certificate in 1912. In the year of her graduation, her family was nearly bankrupt because of serious economic hardships. In 1921 she earned a bachelor's degree in pedagogy and visited Spain a second time. Later, she would earn a second bachelor's degree in home economics from New Mexico State University (NMSU) in 1929.\n\nHer first job was teaching in a one-room schoolhouse in 1916. Her father was opposed to her teaching, but she insisted. She continued to teach school in the New Mexico public school system for a few years, and after receiving her degree from NMSU, began to work as an extension agent for Hispanic and Pueblo villages in New Mexico as part of the New Mexico Agricultural Extension Service (NMAES). Her career as an extension agent for these villages would span thirty years. In this capacity, she taught rural women modern agricultural techniques, introduced modern devices like sewing machines, so that rural families could thrive on their own land. She also helped organize clubs for rural women. She was the first extension agent who spoke Spanish and often translated government information into Spanish for rural residents. She was also the first agent sent out to Pueblos.\n\nWhile visiting homes, she collected cultural information, recipes, stories and more. Some of these were published in the Santa Fe \"Nuevo Mexicana\". She also hosted a bilingual weekly radio show related to homemaking on the station, KVSF.\n\nIn 1929, she eloped with Carlos Gilbert, an insurance agent and member of the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC). The match was not approved of by her father, and the couple divorced after 10 years. Her husband's activism affected Cabeza de Baca, who became involved with Hispanic civil rights.\n\nIn 1932, she was injured by a train car, which resulted in having one of her legs amputated. While she recovered for a period of two years, she continued to write and eventually returned to work, visiting homes. In 1935, she and several other women founded La Sociedad Folklorica in Santa Fe as an organization \"dedicated to preserving Spanish Language and Hispanic traditions in Santa Fe.\" During World War II, she helped women create Victory Gardens and set up childcare for women who were working. In 1950, UNESCO sent Cabeza de Baca to Pátzcuaro to teach modern food and agriculture techniques to students. In 1959, she retired from working as an extension agent.\n\nIn her retirement, she continued to preserve Spanish culture and was involved with the La Sociedad Folklorica of Santa Fe. She was also active in the Peace Corps.\n\nIn May 1984, she entered into a nursing home. On October 14, 1991, Cabeza de Baca died in Albuquerque. She was buried near Newkirk, New Mexico on the family's ranch.\n\nHer book, \"Historic Cookery\", first published in 1931, collected traditional recipes from the area, emphasizing \"basic New Mexico foods.\" It was written with an \"Anglo audience in mind.\" \"Historic Cookery\" also marked the first time that New Mexican recipes were written down with \"exact measurements.\" In 1959, Cabeza de Baca and chef as the Alvarado Hotel worked to update the recipes in \"Historic Cookery\" to modern techniques. The book sold over 100,000 copies, and was republished many times. A copy of this book was sent to the governor of each state in the US by Thomas Mabry along with a bag of pinto beans. Her work helped introduce cooking with chile to the American public.\n\nCabeza de Baca's second cookbook, \"The Good Life: New Mexico Traditions and Foods\" was first published in 1949 and was one of the first cookbooks to \"place recipes within the historic and cultural contexts out of which they grew.\" The book contained a fictional family, the Turrieta family, which represented the people that she met as an extension agent. The book also describes regional differences in New Mexican cuisine.\n\nHer autobiographical narrative, \"We Fed Them Cactus\" (1954), describes the life of New Mexican Hispanos, and documents four generations of her family. The title refers to a major drought that caused her family to have to feed cactus to their cattle. The story is narrated by El Cuate, or the camp cook, and the narrative in \"We Fed Them Cactus\" is meant to \"counter Anglo-American stereotyping of wealthy and corrupt landowners of the \"rico\" class.\"\n\nBetween 1958 and 1961 she wrote and edited for a magazine she helped found, the \"Santa Fe Scene\".\n\nLater Chicano readings of Cabeza de Baca's work were critical of her writing, which was seen as \"elitist and not representative of the realistic Chicano experience.\" Despite this criticism, her writing has been viewed by Hispanic literary critics as a precursor to Chicana literature.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49513522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49513522", "title": "Film Reference Library", "text": "Film Reference Library\n\nThe Film Reference Library (FRL) is Canada’s film research collection located on the 4th floor of TIFF Bell Lightbox, a cultural centre in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The library is a free resource for students, filmmakers, scholars, and journalists. The library is affiliated to International Federation of Film Archives (FIAF), to promote Canadian and global film scholarship by collecting, preserving, and providing access to a comprehensive collection of film prints, and film-related reference resources including books, periodicals, scripts, research files, movies, press kits.\n\nThe Library assumed operation of the Ontario Film Institute in 1990, when the Province of Ontario selected the Library to be guardian of its film-related holdings and continue the dedicated work of Gerald Pratley, founder of the OFI, by collecting and preserving materials indispensable to film education, production and research.\n\nThe library contains 60,000 film research files, which include presskits, photographs, and clippings, 20,000 book titles, 13,000 film, 2000 film scripts, 700 magazine and journal titles, 80 Special Collections, and a large and varied selection of other research materials, including 300,000 images, 11,000 posters, 6000 soundtracks and television titles.\n\nThe Film Reference Library houses over 80 Special Collections that illuminate the history of Canadian cinema. The Special Collections are composed of original archival records: audiovisual material and film elements; print materials, festival catalogues, as well as shooting scripts and production notes.\n\nThe library's holdings include the personal research archives of film journalist and celebrity interviewer Brian Linehan, in whose memory the library's public reading room is named.\n\nPrevious exhibitions include:\n\n"}
{"id": "790714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=790714", "title": "Free response", "text": "Free response\n\nFree response, usually referred to as essay, is a type of question used in tests in education, workplace, and government. Most free response questions ask or require the test-taker to state a belief, opinion, or write a short essay and support it with facts, examples, or other evidence. However, few tests solely rely on these types of problems, and tend to work in conjunction with other types, such as multiple choice. Free response questions generally test more than straight knowledge and ask for a \"big picture\" type of response \"(see example)\". Also, they usually allow the taker to choose an area in which they are familiar. According to National Council on Measurement in Education, a free-response item is a test item in which the responders must create a response or product rather than choose a response from a set supplied with the item. A short-answer item, mathematics problem, and writing sample are examples.\n\nFree-response items are distinct from fixed-response items in that examiners must supply a full and independent response. There are no answer options from which to choose. Free-response items are typically discouraged from examinations because of the difficulty, bias, and time effort required in grading them. However, some general guidelines for developing these questions include the following:\n\nThe shorter the answer required for a given essay item, generally the better. More objectives can be tested in the same period of time, and factors such as verbal fluency, spelling, etc., have less of an opportunity to influence the grader. \n\nSupporters argue that this type of question on tests is that it gives a better indication of the competence and intelligence of the test taker than other more standardized responses, which are claimed to often only measure test-taking ability. However, critics charge that the quality of a free response answer is often determined more by ability with the language in which it is given than competence or intelligence.\n\n\"(In normal Advanced Placement exam format—illustrates all points)\"\n\nChoose two of the following areas and write a well-developed essay in which you analyze change over time and continuities on how technological advances affected the regions between 1914 and 1945:\n\"Example thesis from 2007 AP World Student for change over time essay:\" 'Significant cultural ideologies such as Communism and Stalinism became the leading factors toward political and cultural change in the Soviet Union throughout 1914-1945. Ultimately, none of these changes were able to improve the standard of living for the working classes of Russia, which ironically had been the goal of the Russian Revolution in the first place.'\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1524963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1524963", "title": "Froebel gifts", "text": "Froebel gifts\n\nThe Froebel gifts () are play materials for young children designed by Friedrich Fröbel for the original Kindergarten at Bad Blankenburg. Playing with Froebel gifts, singing, dancing and growing plants were each important aspects of this child-centered approach to education created by Friedrich Fröbel.\n\nThe Sonntagsblatt (1838-1840) published by Fröbel explained the meaning, and described the use of each of his five play gifts (Spielgabe):\n\n\"The active and creative, living and life producing being of each person, reveals itself in the creative instinct of the child. All human education is bound up in the quiet and conscientious nurture of this instinct of activity; and in the ability of the child, true to this instinct, to be active.\"\n\nBetween May 1837 and 1850, the Froebel gifts were made in Bad Blankenburg in the Principality of Schwarzburg Rudolstadt, by master carpenter Löhn, assisted by artisans and women of the village.\n\nFröbel also developed a series of occupations such as sewing, weaving and the modelling with clay, for children to reconstruct their experiences through play.\nOttilie de Liagre in a letter to Fröbel in 1844 observed that playing with the Froebel gifts empowers children to be lively and free, but people can degrade it into a mechanical routine.\n\nEach of the five gifts was assigned a number by Fröbel in the Sonntagsblatt (1838-1840), which indicates the order in which each gift was to be given to child. \n\nThe first gift is a soft ball or yarn ball in solid color, which is the right size for the hand of a small child. When attached to a matching string, the ball can be moved by a mother in various ways as she sings to the child. Although Fröbel sold single balls, they are now usually supplied in sets of six balls consisting of the primary colors red, yellow and blue, as well as their secondary colors, purple, green and orange.\n\nThese soft balls can be squashed in the hand, and they revert to their original shapes.\n\nThe first gift was intended by Fröbel to be given to very young children. His intention was that, through holding, dropping, rolling, swinging, hiding and revealing the balls, the child may acquire knowledge of objects and spatial relationships, movement, speed and time, color and contrast, weights and gravity.\n\nThe second gift originally consisted of two wooden objects, a sphere and a cube.\n\nFröbel called this gift \"the child's delight\" since he observed the joy of each child discovering the differences between the sphere and cube.\n\nThe child is familiar with the shape of the wooden sphere, which is the same as the ball of the first gift. The wooden sphere always looks the same, when viewed from any direction. Like the child, the wooden sphere is always on the move. When rolled on a hard surface the wooden sphere produces sounds.\n\nIn contrast, the wooden cube is the surprise of the second gift. It remains where it is placed and from each direction presents a different appearance.\n\nThe second gift was developed by Fröbel to enable a child to explore and enjoy the differences between shapes. By attaching a string or inserting a rod in a hole drilled through these wooden geometric shapes, they can be spun by a child. Although the sphere always appears the same, the spinning cube reveals many shapes when spun in different ways.\n\nThis led Fröbel to include a wooden cylinder in the second gift, which may also be spun in many different ways.\n\nThe familiar shape of the cube is now divided into eight identical beechwood cubes, about one inch along each edge, which is a convenient size for the hand of small child. A child delights in pulling apart this gift, rearranging the eight cubes in many ways, and then reassembling them in the form of a cube. This is the first building gift.\n\nThis second building gift at first appears the same. But a surprise awaits the child, when the pieces are pulled apart. Each of these eight identical beechwood blocks is twice as long and half the width of the cubes of the previous gift. Many new possibilities for play and construction arise due to these differences.\n\nConsidered by many too complex for a young child, this building gift consists of more cubes, some of which are divided in halves or quarters.\n\nIn 1850 production was moved to the Erzgebirge region of the Kingdom of Saxony in a factory established for this purpose by S F Fischer.\n\nFrank Lloyd Wright was given a set of the Froebel blocks at about age nine, and in his autobiography cited them indirectly in explaining that he learned the geometry of architecture in kindergarten play, \nwriting \"For several years I sat at the little Kindergarten table-top . . . and played . . . with the cube, the sphere and the triangle—these smooth wooden maple blocks . . . All are in my fingers to this day . . .\"\n\nFroebel gifts were adapted by Caroline Pratt for the school, which she founded in 1913 in the Greenwich Village of New York City. This school embodied a child-centered approach to education. Children worked together to reconstruct their experiences through play. Based on the ideas of Friedrich Froebel, the curriculum was drawn from the environment of the child: observations about the neighborhood inspired each child to reflect on their world directly so that they could make sense of their experiences.\n\nFroebel gifts continue to be used in early childhood education in Korea and Japan, where they are made from local timber.\n\n\"Realising how the Gifts were eventually misused by Kindergarten teachers who followed after Froebel, it is important to consider what Froebel expected the Gifts to achieve. He envisaged that the Gifts will teach the child to use his (or her) environment as an educational aid; secondly, that they will give the child an indication of the connection between human life and life in nature; and finally that they will create a bond between the adult and the child who play with them\" Joachim Liebschner on page 82 in his book, \"A Child's Work: Freedom and Guidance in Froebel's Educational Theory and Practice\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1566044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1566044", "title": "George C. Stoney", "text": "George C. Stoney\n\nGeorge Cashel Stoney (July 1, 1916 – July 12, 2012) was an American documentary filmmaker, an educator, and the \"father of public-access television.\" Among his films were \"All My Babies\" (1953), \"How the Myth Was Made\" (1979) and \"The Uprising of '34\" (1995). \"All My Babies\" was entered into the National Film Registry in 2002. Stoney's life and work were the subject of a \"Festschrift\" volume of the journal \"Wide Angle\" in 1999.\n\nGeorge Cashel Stoney was born in 1916 in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. He studied English and History at the University of North Carolina and graduated in 1937. Later studying at Balliol College in Oxford, and received a Film in Education Certificate from the University of London. He worked at the Henry Street Settlement House on the Lower East Side of NYC in 1938, as a field research assistant for Gunnar Myrdal and Ralph Bunche's on their publication \"An American Dilemma: The Negro Problem and Modern Democracy\". He was also a publicist for the Farm Security Administration covering the plight of tenant farmers until he was drafted in 1942. Throughout this time he also wrote freelance articles for many newspapers and magazines, including the \"New York Times\", \"The New Republic\", Raleigh News and Observer and the Survey Graphic. He served as a photo intelligence officer in World War II. \n\nIn 1946, Stoney joined the Southern Educational Film Service, writing and directing government education films for their constituents. Shooting in North Carolina, he worked on \"Mr. Williams Wakes up\" in 1944, and \"Tar Heel Family\" in 1951 under the company. He went on to create films for the Association of Medical Colleges and the North Carolina Film Board. In 1953, Stoney worked with the Association of Medical Colleges to write, direct and produce \"All My Babies: A Midwife's Own Story\". The film follows Mary Francis Hill Coley an African American midwife as she attends to her clients and work with doctors and nurses within the medical establishment to promote education and cooperation within the modern medical field. The film received numerous awards and was inducted into the National Film Registry in 2002 by the Library of Congress.\n\nIn the late 1960s, Stoney founded his own production company, George C. Stoney Associates, and taught at Columbia University, Stanford University (1965–67), and became a professor at New York University's Tisch School of the Arts in 1971. He was an emeritus professor at NYU until his death. He directed the Challenge for Change project, a socially active documentary production wing of the National Film Board of Canada from 1968-70. After working with Red Burns on the Challenge for a Change, the pair founded the Alternate Media Center in 1972, which trained citizens in the tools of video production for a brand new medium, Public-access television. An early advocate of democratic media, Stoney is often cited as being the \"father of public-access television.\" With his work in public-access television, Stoney sought to democratize of voices recorded on an audiovisual medium by sharing authority through community engagement.\n\nIn 1995, Stoney directed \"The Uprising of '34\" about the General Textile Strike in 1934\".\" For the film's production, over 300 hours of interviews from former mill workers, their children and grandchildren, labor organizers, mill owners, and others who experienced or were affected by the strikes.\n\nStoney was an active member of the Board of Directors for the Manhattan Neighborhood Network (MNN) and the Alliance for Community Media (ACM). Each year, the ACM presents \"The George Stoney Award\" to an organization or individual who has made an outstanding contribution to championing the growth and experience of humanistic community communications.\n\nHe died peacefully at the age of 96 at his home in New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4032613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4032613", "title": "George Colby Chase", "text": "George Colby Chase\n\nGeorge Colby Chase (March 15, 1844 - May 27, 1919) was an American intellectual and professor of English who served as the second President of Bates College succeeding its founder, Oren Burbank Cheney, from March 1894 to November 1919. \n\nKnown as \"the great builder,\" Chase constructed 22 new academic buildings and residential dorms on the campus of the college, tripled the number of students and faculty as well as quadrupling the financial endowment to one million dollars. Chase is notable for being the first and only alumnus of Bates to be elected its president. \n\nChase was born on March 15, 1844 in Unity, Maine. His parents were Freewill Baptists. At age 18 Chase enrolled at the Maine State Seminary and graduated from the Seminary program in 1864. He then enrolled in the college program at Bates College, graduating in 1868. After graduation he taught at the New Hampton Literary Institute, eventually returning to teach at Bates in 1870. In the 1870s, in pursuit his life's work, he returned to Lewiston and enrolled in the theological school, which later became a part of the college's religion department. Meanwhile, the Bates offered him a professorship of Greek and he spent the next year teaching and pursuing his studies in theology. After his spell teaching Greek he moved to teaching English. \n\nIn order to better prepare himself, he spent a year as a graduate student at Harvard, returning in 1872 to join the Bates faculty as Professor of Rhetoric and English Literature. Chase attended Bates' Cobb Divinity School while teaching, but eventually decided not to pursue a career in ministry. Chase then studied at Harvard University, returning to Bates in 1872 to teach Rhetoric and English.\n\nChase taught for 22 years and during that time his administrative skills were noticed by the current Bates College president, Oren Burbank Cheney. In the 1880s Chase took on many of the president's fundraising responsibilities, and in 1894, Chase became Bates' second president, when Oren Burbank Cheney retired. As president Chase greatly expanded the college campus, student body, and the endowment. Chase served as president until his death in 1919. He died shortly after signing the diplomas for the class of 1919. His house on Frye Street is currently part of College, and Chase Hall is named after him.\n\nHe has received several honorary degrees including University of New Brunswick and Bowdoin College.\n\nIn 1872, he married Emma F. Millett, a former member of the Bates College's first graduating class. They had five children: George, Emma, Muriel, Elizabeth and Caroline. Chase died at his home in Lewiston, Maine on May 27, 1919 at the age of 75.\n\nChase was honored by Bates with the construction of Chase Hall, which houses the Student Activities Center, the college book store, the postal center, the offices of several student organizations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31610936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31610936", "title": "Grooveshark University", "text": "Grooveshark University\n\nGrooveshark University was a free, semester-long program offered by software engineers at Grooveshark.com to intermediate programmers at the college level and beyond. Grooveshark offered the initiative to help programmers gain the experience needed to develop their own technological innovations.\n\nEnrollment was by application only, and was not limited to college students.\n\nGrooveshark University was developed to help ease new interns into Grooveshark's work environment. Gradually, the program grew into a hub for idea creation, technical learning, and prototype development, as Grooveshark saw \"potential for other ideas developed in Gainesville to grow into full-fledged businesses.\"\n\nGrooveshark University was part of an ongoing process to promote innovation in the Gainesville, Florida area. The program's mission was to provide an environment where interested developers, young and old, can hone their skills or work with other developers to create new projects and pursue great ideas.\n\nThe GSU lectures focused on a variety of different technical topics, including: mobile and web development, web standards, and specific programming languages like Python. Weekly sessions were held in the evening at Santa Fe College's downtown Center for Innovation and Economic Development.\n\nMeetings typically included presentations by Grooveshark developers and group discussions for networking with other programmers.\n\nUndergraduate students, graduate students, and experienced developers have taken part in Grooveshark University. Grooveshark said it looked for individuals \"with a lot of raw potential\" when choosing participants for the program.\n\nThe program is selective. In the first semester, 25 of 50 original applicants were accepted as students, and of that group, fewer than 15 students completed the first semester. The application process screened for personality as well as skill, and favored candidates who were comfortable working with other people.\n\nStudents of Grooveshark University were encouraged to create their own projects outside of the weekly lectures. Graduating students have produced projects such as \n\n\n"}
{"id": "38157240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38157240", "title": "High Master (academic)", "text": "High Master (academic)\n\nHigh master is the term used, in place of the more conventional \"headmaster\", \"head teacher\" or \"principal\", to denote the head teachers of two English independent schools: Manchester Grammar School and St Paul's School in London.\n\nThe equivalent high mistress is used for female headteachers at some independent schools, including St Paul's Girls' School and Abercorn School.\n"}
{"id": "3898956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3898956", "title": "Integrative learning", "text": "Integrative learning\n\nIntegrative learning is a learning theory describing a movement toward integrated lessons helping students make connections across curricula. This higher education concept is distinct from the elementary and high school \"integrated curriculum\" movement.\n\nIntegrative Learning comes in many varieties: connecting skills and knowledge from multiple sources and experiences; applying skills and practices in various settings; utilizing diverse and even contradictory points of view; and, understanding issues and positions contextually.\"\n\n...making connections within a major, between fields, between curriculum, cocurriculum, or between academic knowledge and practice.\"\n\nIntegrated studies involve bringing together traditionally separate subjects so that students can grasp a more authentic understanding. Veronica Boix Mansilla, cofounder of the Interdisciplinary Studies Project at Project Zero, explains \"when [students] can bring together concepts, methods, or languages from two or more disciplines or established areas of expertise in order to explain a phenomenon, solve a problem, create a product, or raise a new question\" they are demonstrating interdisciplinary understanding. For over a decade, Project Zero researchers at the Harvard Graduate School of Education have been studying interdisciplinary work across a range of settings. They have found interdisciplinary understanding to be crucial for modern-thinking students.\n\nEdutopia highlighted Central York High School as a \"School That Works\" because of its successful integrated studies approach. For example, an AP government teacher and art teacher collaborated to create a joint project that asked students to create a sculpture based on the principles presented by the AP government class.\nAP government teacher Dayna Laur states that,\n\"Integrated studies projects [aim to] create a connectedness between disciplines that otherwise might seem unrelated to many students. Deliberately searching for ways in which you can mingle standards and content is imperative if you want to create truly authentic experiences because, in the world outside of the classroom, content is not stand-alone.\"\n\nIn many American medical schools, an integrated curriculum refers to a non-compartmentalized approach to basic science learning. As opposed to traditional medical curriculum, which separate subjects such as embryology, physiology, pathology and anatomy, integrated curricula alternate lectures on these subjects over the course of the first two years. (Jonas 1989) The course of study is instead organized around organ systems (such as \"Cardiovascular\" or \"Gastrointestinal\"). Another major component of the integrated medical curriculum is problem-based learning.\n\nInterdisciplinary curricula has been shown by several studies to support students’ engagement and learning. Specifically integrating science with reading comprehension and writing lessons has been shown to improve students’ understanding in both science and English language arts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49249340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49249340", "title": "International Association for the Study of Forced Migration", "text": "International Association for the Study of Forced Migration\n\nThe International Association for the Study of Forced Migration (IASFM) is a professional association for academics and practitioners involved in the field of forced migration.\n\nThe IASFM was formed in 1994 to support the International Research and Advisory Panel on Refugees and Other Displaced Persons (IRAP). IRAP had been created in 1990 to provide advice and assistance to the Refugee Studies Programme at the University of Oxford and its journal the 'Journal of Refugee Studies'.\n\nThe IASFM is governed by an International Secretariat. This was initially based at the Refugee Studies Centre, at the University of Oxford. The Secretariat has since moved to the Institute for the Study of International Migration, at Georgetown University and also receives support from Centre for Refugee Studies at York University.\n\nThe Secretariat is run by an executive committee headed by the president. The current president is Paula Banerjee.\nList of Presidents of the IASFM:\n"}
{"id": "19978601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19978601", "title": "International Bioethics Committee", "text": "International Bioethics Committee\n\nThe International Bioethics Committee (IBC) of UNESCO is a body composed of 36 independent experts from all regions and from different disciplines (mainly medicine, genetics, law, and philosophy) that follows progress in the life sciences and its applications in order to ensure respect for human dignity and human rights. It was created in 1993 by Dr Federico Mayor Zaragoza, General Director of UNESCO at that time. It has been prominent in developing Declarations with regard to norms of bioethics that are regarded as soft law but are nonetheless influential in shaping the deliberations, for example, of research ethics committees (or Institutional review board) and health policy.\n\nIn 1993, the IBC was entrusted with the task of preparing an international instrument on the human genome, the Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights, which was adopted by the General Conference of UNESCO in 1997 and endorsed by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1998. The main purpose of this instrument is to protect the human genome from improper manipulations that may endanger the identity and physical integrity of future generations. To this end, it recognizes the human genome as \"the heritage of humanity\" (Article 1), and declares \"contrary to human dignity\" practices such as human cloning (Article 11) and germ-line interventions (Article 24). In addition, the Declaration intends to prevent genetic reductionism, genetic discrimination, and any use of genetic information that would be contrary to human dignity and human rights.\n\nIn 2003, the IBC issued a second global instrument, the International Declaration on Human Genetic Data, which may be regarded as an extension of the 1997 Declaration. This document sets out a number of rules for the collection, use and storage of human genetic data. It covers, among other issues, informed consent in genetics; confidentiality of genetic data; genetic discrimination; anonymization of personal genetic information; population-based genetic studies; the right not to know one’s genetic make up; genetic counselling; international solidarity in genetic research, and benefit sharing.\n\nThe last global instrument drafted by the IBC is the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights, which has a much broader scope than the two previous documents. It aims to provide a comprehensive framework of principles that should guide biomedical activities, in order to ensure that they are in conformity with international human rights law. The academic Thomas Alured Faunce has analysed this Declaration's non-binding social responsibility, technology transfer and transnational benefit principles which expressly apply to private and public corporations as well as states. He has argued that it has promoted a normative intersection between international human rights law and bioethics as academic disciplines.\n"}
{"id": "3171282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3171282", "title": "International Four-H Youth Exchange", "text": "International Four-H Youth Exchange\n\nThe International Four-H Youth Exchange, or IFYE was an international exchange program supported and funded by the National 4-H Council up until 1992. In 1999 continued support and funding for the program was, \"accepted,\" by the IFYE Association, and in 2012 IFYE officially changed its name to the, \"IFYE Association of the USA, Inc.\"\n\nAt the end of World War II, 4-H teens attending a national 4-H conference asked themselves, \"Why can't we solve our problems in a more humane way?\" Thus, a two-way cultural exchange known as the International Farm Youth Exchange began in 1948 conducted by the National 4-H Council.\n\nGertrude L. Warren, of the United States Department of Agriculture, contributed organization and leadership.\n\nIn 1992 the National IFYE Association (composed of exchange alumni and others interested in promoting the International 4-H Exchanges) accepted the responsibilities to support the continued funding of these programs. Thus, the National IFYE Foundation was developed in 1996-97 with a Board of Directors and officers named in 1997. Recommendations for directors were received by the established regions of the IFYE Association at its annual conference in Savannah, Georgia in 1996. The first annual meeting of the board was held in St. Louis, Missouri on July 23, 1997.\n\nBecause of the IFYE, thousands of young people from all over the world have lived and worked on farms, small towns and cities of another country, sharing these one-in-a-lifetime experiences with thousands of people.\n\nThe International Four-H Youth Exchange (IFYE) Association of the USA, Inc., in cooperation with the Cooperative Extension System, will\n\n"}
{"id": "32741203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32741203", "title": "Karl Scheidemantel", "text": "Karl Scheidemantel\n\nKarl Scheidemantel (29 January 1859 – 26 June 1923) was a baritone singer, and later an opera director.\n\nBorn in Weimar, the son of a Weimar court artist, Scheidemantel found great success in various roles in the operas of Richard Wagner. Among his supporters were Bodo Borchers in Weimar, well known voice teacher Julius Stockhausen in Frankfurt, and composer Franz Liszt. At the age of 25 he joined the ensemble of the Dresden Hofoper where he was named Kammersänger, \"Chamber Singer to the Saxon Grand Duke\" in 1884. He sang at the 1886, 1888, 1891, and 1892 Bayreuth festivals. He frequently corresponded with Cosima Wagner about the happenings of the stage. He then sang at most of the great European opera houses, especially the Vienna State Opera, where in April and May 1890 he sang the rolls of Heiling, Renato, Zampa, Wolfram, Luna and, Sachs. He was a guest singer at La Scala in 1892. His closest friend was singer Karl Perron. He married Hedwig Lehnert in June 1897 at the Dresden Annankirche. His final career appearance was on 8 June 1911 as Hans Sachs.\n\nScheidemantel sang over 170 roles in his career. Notably, he created the role of \"Herr von Faninal\" in Richard Strauss's \"Der Rosenkavalier\" in 1911. His German singing translation of Mozart's \"Don Giovanni\" was widely used. It was first used in his own new production at Dresden in June 1914, in which Richard Tauber first sang Don Ottavio. He also edited a song anthology for music publisher Eulenberg.\n\nAfter his stage career he returned to Weimar where he taught singing. His students included Hermann Uhde and Herbert Heyner. He returned to Dresden as director of the Dresden Opera in from 1920-1922. Scheidemantel is buried in Dresden-Tolkewitz. Dresden named a road in his honor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21492287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21492287", "title": "København (ship)", "text": "København (ship)\n\nKøbenhavn was a Danish five-masted barque used as a naval training vessel until its disappearance after December 22, 1928. Built for the Danish East Asiatic Company in 1921, it was the world's largest sailing ship at the time, and primarily served for sail training of young cadets.\n\nThe \"København\" was last heard from on December 21, 1928 while en route from Buenos Aires to Australia. When it became clear the ship was missing, a lengthy search ensued, but turned up no trace. The disappearance has become one of the greatest maritime mysteries of the modern era, and led to much speculation about the ship's ultimate fate.\n\nThe \"København\" was built by the firm of Ramage & Ferguson at Leith in Scotland (number 256), begun in 1913 but not completed until March 24, 1921. It was constructed for the Danish East Asiatic Company as a sail training ship. Known as the \"Big Dane\", it was the largest sailing ship in the world when completed. It was 430 feet (131 metres) long and grossed 3,965 tons; its five masts stood nearly 20 stories high with sails spanning a total of 56,000 square feet (5,202 square metres). It had an auxiliary diesel motor as well as a wireless transmitter. The figurehead was a carving of a helmeted Bishop Absalon.\n\nPrimarily intended for training young cadets seeking an officer's license, the ship offset some of its costs by carrying limited amounts of cargo on its voyages. Baron Nils Juel-Brockdorff oversaw the ship's construction and subsequently served as its first captain. From 1921 to 1928 the ship made nine voyages, visiting nearly every continent and completing two circumnavigations.\n\nOn September 21, 1928, the \"København\" departed from Nørresundby in Northern Jutland for Buenos Aires on its tenth, and ultimately final, voyage. The captain was Hans Andersen; 75 persons were aboard, including 26 crew and 45 cadets. The goal was to unload a shipload of chalk and bagged cement in Buenos Aires, take on another load of cargo and sail for Melbourne, and then bring a shipment of Australian wheat back to Europe.\n\nThe \"København\" arrived at Buenos Aires on November 17, 1928, impressing the locals, in particular emigrant Danes. The cargo was unloaded; however, the departure was delayed as there were no paying commissions to take the cargo to Australia. Finally, on December 14, Captain Andersen decided to ship out to Australia without a cargo. The voyage was expected to take 45 days. On December 22 the \"København\" exchanged radio messages with the Norwegian steamer \"William Blumer\", indicating they were about 900 miles from Tristan da Cunha and that \"all is well\". The \"Blumer\" attempted to contact the \"København\" again later that night, to no avail. The ship was never heard from again.\n\nDue to the length of the voyage to Australia, and the fact that Andersen routinely went long periods without sending a message, the Danish were not initially worried. However, concern mounted as months passed without word. In April 1929 the Danish East Asiatic Company dispatched a motor vessel, the \"Mexico\", to Tristan da Cunha. Residents reported having seen a large five-masted ship with its foremast broken on January 21, 1929; however, it had not attempted to land on the island. The \"Mexico\", joined by the British Royal Navy, searched for the \"København\" for several months, but found no sign of it. The Danish government officially declared the ship and its crew were lost at sea.\n\nA number of theories for the \"København\"'s disappearance have been advanced. The most commonly accepted is that the ship struck an iceberg in the dark or fog. If so, the ship may have sunk too quickly for the crew to react. The lack of wreckage found later may have been the result of the ship's particularly secure loading and rigging, a necessity against the strong winds known as the Roaring Forties. An alternate theory is that the ship, which was in ballast with no cargo, may have been capsized by heavy winds, disabling the lifeboats for survivors.\n\nFor the next two years after the \"København\"'s disappearance there were a number of sightings of a mysterious five-masted ship fitting its description in the Pacific, fueling further speculation about the vessel. Early reports came from Chilean fishermen, then in July 1930, the crew of an Argentine freighter sighted a five-masted \"phantom ship\" during a gale. The captain took their statements and wondered if this was the \"wraith of the Copenhagen\". Further sightings came in the following weeks from Easter Island and the Peruvian coast. Later some wreckage, including a piece of stern bearing the name \"København\", reportedly was found off West Australia.\n\nTentative evidence for the ship continued to emerge. In 1934 \"The New York Times\" reported that a \"København\" cadet's diary had been found in a bottle on Bouvet Island in the South Atlantic. The supposed diary indicated that the ship had been destroyed by icebergs and abandoned, the crew taking their chances in lifeboats. In 1935, human remains and the remains of a lifeboat were found partly buried in the sand along the southwest coast of Africa. These may have come from \"København\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28963693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28963693", "title": "Library Systems &amp; Services", "text": "Library Systems &amp; Services\n\nLibrary Systems & Services is a private for-profit company that manages municipal libraries on an outsourced basis. It is the largest library outsourcing company in the United States. It runs 20 library systems in 80 locations. Its headquarters are in Rockville, Maryland and it also operates in the UK.\n\nThe company started in 1982 with the MINI MARC cataloging system and custom software for libraries. It expanded into managing libraries at housed within federal agencies, an opportunity created by Reagan-era privatization policies. In 1997 it began operating public library systems after signing a contract with the Riverside County Library System in California. The privatization of public library services was controversial, especially with employees of the libraries, and involved replacing unionized employees with non-union employees. One of the ways that the company was able to save money for local governments was by offering remote reference librarian services to all its customers, starting in 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "42509719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42509719", "title": "Mova Nanova", "text": "Mova Nanova\n\nMova Nanova (, \"Mova Nanova\", literally, “language anew”) is a Belarusian course that has taken place in Minsk, the capital of Belarus, since January 13, 2014. It is a non-profit NGO, a cultural and linguistic initiative aimed at expanding the everyday use of the Belarusian language, which alongside Russian is one of the two official languages of Belarus. The lessons are held in the gallery of modern art «Ў». The initiative has caught on and has been acclaimed by other regional cities that support the endeavour locally – now the courses can be also found in Baranavičy, Hrodna, Babrujsk, Niasviž, Brest, Maladziečna, Mahilioŭ, Viciebsk and Homel. The undertaking has also expanded outside Belarus and has an affiliate group in Kraków.\n\nMova Nanova in Minsk has been set up and is hosted by Alesia Litvinouskaja, a linguist, and Gleb Labadzenka, a journalist. The course gathers about 300 students weekly and is attended by people of different background and all walks of life from Belarusian-speaking physicians and software engineers to architects and singers, to writers and actors, to historians and students, to kids and senior citizens. The distinct feature and integral part of each class is special guests. Normally, they are public figures and famous people promoting the Belarusian language and culture, and who see this linguistic environment as an intrinsic part of their daily life.\n\nThe course is informal by nature, and the teaching process is not governed by strict academic rules. The lessons are divided into different topics like fashion, medicine, relatives, etc., and are split up into several sections – vocabulary, grammar, interesting facts, historical or cultural edutainment section, and more.\n\nIn June, 2014 Mova Nanova was awarded the Grand Prix for the best project in the \"Undertakings of Social Value\" category at AD!NAK, the festival of Belarusian advertising, media and communication.\n\nMova Nanova offers the service of free translation called \"Linguistic Emergency Service\". A volunteer team of professional linguists provides a quick translation service (within a few days) of texts up to 5000 characters, which will be used directly or indirectly for promoting the Belarusian language in public life. The most common instances are website texts, name plates, posters and billboards, names of ingredients on packages, labels and price tags in shops, restaurant menus, advertisements, etc.\n\nThe first national sports contest Mova Cup (Language Cup) took place on September 28, 2014, where there was also a team representing Mova Nanova, which came 5th in the overall standing.\n\nThe language course for preschool children \"Mova Nanova for the Little Ones\" opened its doors to very young learners in the gallery of modern art «Ў» on October 5, 2014.\n\nThe initiative has emerged as a response to the growing need of a certain part of Belarusian population inclined to raise their linguistic, cultural and national awareness, and among those people who are interested in building up their knowledge of the Belarusian language. The regular attendees of the course see this practice as an inseparable step toward strengthening their national identity. Currently regardless of the official status of Belarusian as one of the state languages, its use is mainly restricted to academic and scientific circles, and a range of media channels. Whereas Russian remains the dominant language in public life, among official authorities and on the governmental level as well as in the sphere of education, where the use of Belarusian is equivalent to that of a foreign language.\n\nAccording to the latest census of 2009, around 53% of the population of Belarus consider the Belarusian language to be their mother tongue, however, only about 23% of the respondents say they speak it at home.\nThe language is labelled as vulnerable by UNESCO, which is reflected on its Atlas of the World’s Languages in Danger.\n\nBeing brought up in a predominantly Russian linguistic environment, many Belarusian people still experience linguistic interference when they try to speak Belarusian and find it difficult to switch to this language and achieve fluency in an everyday conversation. One of the common reasons that impedes wider adoption of Belarusian beyond the passive utilization in reading and listening is said to be lack of confidence about the level of proficiency that in fluent speech often results in a mixture of both Russian and Belarusian. This blend is often informally called “trasianka”. Therefore, one of the primary aims of the Mova Nanova course is to help those who are aspiring to speak Belarusian regain and develop confidence about using the language in a daily conversation, refresh their existing knowledge, and instill curiosity about further learning of the Belarusian language, culture and history.\n\nThe language courses Mova Nanova first started in Minsk, and now are hosted there by the philologist Alesia Litvinouskaja and the journalist Gleb Labadzenka. The first year of the course numbered 21 lesson, and concluded with a first-year graduation party where special guests such as the music band Handmade and musicians Lavon Volski and Pavel Arakelian were invited. The topics of the first season were Greetings and Wishes, Knights and Battles, Paganism, Medicine, Verbal Tussle and Strong Language, Relatives, Birds, Cinema, Fashion, Humour and Jokes, City and Urbanism, Education, Easter and its Traditions, Theater, Information Technologies and Computer Literacy, Man and Law, Flora, Disabilities and Special Abilities, Fairy Tales. The lessons were visited by many famous Belarusian public figures and cultural personalities, among which were the Handmade band, the members of the knight club \"Givojt\" Juras Uscinovič and Uladzimir Ličko, Uladzimir Arloŭ, Vital Gurkoŭ, Aleh Chamenka, the Sumarok band, the Rahis band, Alaksandr Vinčeŭski, the Bosae Sonca band, Ales Kamocki, Viktar Šałkevič, Hanna Chitryk, the band Vuraj, Saša Varlamaŭ, Andrej Chadanovič, Lavon Volski, the Shuma band, Viačaslaŭ Rakicki, Mikałaj Pinigin, Zmicer Vajciuškevič, Kasia Kamockaja.\n\nThe second year of the course started on September 8, 2014.\n\nAlesia Litvinouskaja and Gleb Labadzenka handed the baton to the like-minded fellow activists from Babrujsk on February 21, 2014, International Mother Language Day. Mova Nanova in the biggest regional city is hosted by the linguist Volha Rudaja and the journalist Alesia Lacinskaja. The course takes place at 33/1 Kastryčnickaja Street each Friday at 18:00. Alesia Litvinouskaja and Gleb Labadzenka, the founders of Mova Nanova in Minsk, came to open the course in Babrujsk and held the first lesson. There were 20 attendees. The topic was greetings and forms of address. The students discussed the original Belarusian names, and the vocabulary on the topic “Relatives” was introduced. Then there was reading of several articles from \"Naša Niva\" (one of the oldest Belarusian periodicals), dated to the early 20th century. The lesson was concluded with a creative task that required the attendees to finish famous Belarusian proverbs and sayings in their own way.\n\nThe event was supported by the organizers of the civil campaign “Budzma Belarusami”. The students received Budzma-branded souvenirs and books from the Union of Belarusian writers.\n\nThe introductory presentation of the first lesson in Hrodna on March 14, 2014, gathered more than 100 people. The event was organized with the help of the civil organization “Centre of “The Third Sector””. 15 minutes before the planned start it was clear that the spot wouldn’t have enough room to welcome all the guests willing to attend the course. The organizers had to promptly find another venue for the presentation and postpone the beginning of the lesson by half an hour. There were people of different background among the first attendees, including the students of “The University of the Golden Age”, and college students as well as middle-aged people. The presentation was delivered again by the founders of the course “Mova Nanova” Gleb Labadzenka and Alesia Litvinouskaja. Alesia immediately won the hearts of the audience by saying that she was the granddaughter of the renowned Apanas Cychun. While the rest of the students enthusiastically responded to the zeal and witty jokes of Gleb. From the beginning of the presentation the hosts set laid-back and friendly atmosphere that lasted during the two hours of the lesson.\n\nThe founders of Mova Nanova spoke about the key concept of these courses and demonstrated a few examples of lessons that could be used as the building blocks for the course in the affiliate group in Hrodna. Then a practical followed. The students were divided into groups and again had to finish Belarusian proverbs and sayings. At the end of the presentation the hosts of Mova Nanova in Hrodna were introduced to the audience. The initiative will be carried on by Volha Astroŭskaja and Ihar Kuzminič.\n\nMova Nanova in Baranavičy was opened on Saturday, March 15, 2014. The course took place on the premises of the civil environmental organization “Neruš” (12 Paŭłava Street). The course in Baranavičy was organized by Julija Tracciak, who will host the initiative in this town. The first lesson was traditionally held by Alesia Litvinouskaja and Gleb Labadzenka, the founders of the course in Minsk. There were 30 attendees during the first lesson, and the event was supported by the civil and cultural campaign “Budzma Belarusami”.\n\nThe first lesson of Mova Nanova in Niasviž took place on March 22, 2014, and was held by the hosts of the Minsk course Alesia Litvinouskaja and Gleb Labadzenka.\nThe event was organized by the artist Natałla Bordak. The course is planned to be held on a regular basis, however, for now there is no detailed information about the next steps.\n\nMova Nanova in Brest for the first time took place on April 27, 2014, more than 90 people attended the lesson. It was held by the teachers of the Minsk branch of Mova Nanova Alesia Litvinouskaja and Gleb Labadzenka. The students had a chance to learn Belarusian equivalents of their names, did a creative task, trained their speech skills with tongue twisters, and listened to voice recordings of illustrious Belarusian poets. Mova Nanova in Brest is promised to be held on a regular basis. All comers can leverage the opportunity to practise Belarusian for free every Wednesday. Inha Voran and Jaŭhien Skrabec took up the torch and would host the lessons in Brest. They promised to add a splash of entertainment to every lesson.\n\nThe second season of the course continued from September 6, 2014.\n\nThe course opened its doors to Maladziečna students on May 7, 2014 with about 60 people attending the first lesson. It was held by the founders of the Minsk course Alesia Litvinouskaja and Gleb Labadzenka. The lesson lasted for two hours, the attendees learnt about traditional Belarusian names, practised to find false friends in translation, honed their pronunciation skills, and listened to the voices of the famous Belarusian poets and writers Janka Kupała and Jakub Kołas. From then on the lessons would be hosted by the journalist Nastassia Roŭda and the cultural personality Ales Mazanik.\n\nThe second season of the course in Maladziečna started on September 15, 2014.\n\nMahilioŭ welcomed its students on May 11, 2014 and became the 9th city to take up the linguistic initiative. The first lesson was traditionally held by the course founders Alesia Litvinouskaja and Gleb Labadzenka. Around 50 people came to the first lesson to the civil centre \"Koła\", which was fairly a lot for Mahilioŭ for this kind of events. There was even a group of schoolchildren who came there with their teacher from Orša. Gleb Labadzenka and Alesia Litvinouskaja described the peculiarities of the family of traditional Belarusian names, explained to the Mahilioŭ amateurs of the Belarusian language the names of relatives, reminded of the famous tongue twisters, proverbs and sayings, and then together with the students did some exercises to practise. Now the course in Mahilioŭ takes place every Wednesday and is lectured by the local language teacher Juras Kałasoŭski.\n\nThe second year of the course started on September 9, 2014\n\nThe official opening of the Viciebsk branch of the language course took place at the exhibition room of the centre of history and culture - the Golden Ring of Viciebsk \"Dzvina\" - on May 25, 2014. Viciebsk was the 10th city to open its doors to Mova Nanova students. More than 50 people attended the first lesson.\nThe course started with Gleb Labadzenka and Alesia Litvinouskaja introducing the most typical Belarusian names to the attendees of the course, explaining the lexical topic of synonyms, and teaching the students to name correctly all the relatives. Then the lesson proceeded with some practical exercises in pronunciation - the students tried to pronounce various tongue twisters, and concluded with a language contest.\nNow the language course is hosted by local lecturers, and the philologist Siarhej Markaŭ is one of them.\n\nThe second year of the course started on September 7, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "9718260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9718260", "title": "Noma Literacy Prize", "text": "Noma Literacy Prize\n\nThe Noma Literacy Prize is a UNESCO award. It goes to the group or individual who has done most to combat illiteracy. It is one of a series of Noma Prizes. It was founded in 1980 by Shoichi Noma, the president of the publishing firm Kodansha, Japan's largest publisher of literature and manga.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "227998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227998", "title": "Organizational learning", "text": "Organizational learning\n\nOrganizational learning is the process of creating, retaining, and transferring knowledge within an organization. An organization improves over time as it gains experience. From this experience, it is able to create knowledge. This knowledge is broad, covering any topic that could better an organization. Examples may include ways to increase production efficiency or to develop beneficial investor relations. Knowledge is created at four different units: individual, group, organizational, and inter organizational.\n\nThe most common way to measure organizational learning is a learning curve. Learning curves are a relationship showing how as an organization produces more of a product or service, it increases its productivity, efficiency, reliability and/or quality of production with diminishing returns. Learning curves vary due to organizational learning rates. Organizational learning rates are affected by individual proficiency, improvements in an organization's technology, and improvements in the structures, routines and methods of coordination.\n\nOrganizational learning happens as a function of experience within an organization and allows the organization to stay competitive in an ever-changing environment. Organizational learning is a process improvement that can increase efficiency, accuracy, and profits. A real-world example of organizational learning is how a new pizza store will reduce the cost per pizza as the cumulative production of pizzas increases. As the staff creates more pizza; they begin to make pizzas faster, the staff learns how to work together, and the equipment is placed in the most efficient location leading to cheaper costs of creation. An example of a more formal way to track and support organizational learning is a learning agenda.\n\nOrganizational learning is an aspect of organizations and a subfield of organizational studies. As an aspect of an organization, organizational learning is the process of creating, retaining, and transferring knowledge. Knowledge creation, knowledge retention, and knowledge transfer can be seen as adaptive processes that are functions of experience. Experience is the knowledge that contributes to the procedural understanding of a subject through involvement or exposure. Research within organizational learning specifically applies to the attributes and behavior of this knowledge and how it can produce changes in the cognition, routines, and behaviors of an organization and its individuals.\n\nIndividuals are predominantly seen as the functional mechanisms for organizational learning by creating knowledge through experience. However, individuals' knowledge only facilitates learning within the organization as a whole if it is transferred. Individuals may withhold their knowledge or exit the organization. Knowledge that is embedded into the organization, in addition to its individuals, can be retained. Organizations can retain knowledge in other ways than just retaining individuals, including using knowledge repositories such as communication tools, processes, learning agendas, routines, networks, and transactive memory systems.\n\nAs a subfield, organizational learning is the study of experience, knowledge, and the effects of knowledge within an organizational context. The study of organizational learning directly contributes to the applied science of knowledge management (KM) and the concept of the learning organization. Organizational learning is related to the studies of organizational theory, organizational communication, organizational behavior, organizational psychology, and organizational development. Organizational learning has received contributions from the fields of educational psychology, sociology, economics, anthropology, political science, and management science.\n\nOrganizations gain knowledge in one of the four organizational communities of learning: individual, team, organizational, and inter-organizational. Organizational learning \"involves the process through which organizational communities (e.g. groups, departments, divisions) change as a result of experience.\" An example of organizational learning is a hospital surgical team learning to use new technology that will increase efficiency.\n\n\nThe origin of the focused study of organizational learning can be traced to the late 1970s, when researchers studied it from a psychological viewpoint. Key advances in the field include:\n\nKnowledge is an indicator of organizational learning. Organization learning happens when there is a change in the knowledge of an organization. Researchers measure organizational knowledge in various ways. For example, some researchers assess knowledge as changes in an organization's practices or routines that increase efficiency. Other researchers base it on the number of patents an organization has. Knowledge management is the process of collecting, developing, and spreading knowledge assets to enable organizational learning.\n\nKnowledge is not a homogenous resource. Although it is related to data and information, knowledge is different from these constructs. Data are a set of defined, objective facts concerning events, while information is a value-added form of data that adds meaning through contextualization, categorization, calculation, correction, or condensation. Knowledge is the applied version of information, a combination of information within experience, framing, value, contextualization, and insight. Experience is knowledge that is generated through exposure to and application of knowledge. Knowledge originates within and is applied by units of an organization to evaluate and utilize experience and information effectively. Knowledge can become embedded within repositories, routines, processes, practices, tools, and norms, depending on the relationship between information, experience, and knowledge.\n\nTwo distinct forms of knowledge, explicit and tacit, are significant in this respect. Explicit knowledge is codified, systematic, formal, and easy to communicate. Tacit knowledge is personal, context-specific, subjective knowledge.\n\nOrganizational learning tracks the changes that occur within an organization as it acquires knowledge and experience. To evaluate organizational learning, the knowledge an organization creates, transfers, and retains must be quantified. Organizational learning is composed of concepts that are difficult to quantify. Measuring organizational learning requires combining different types of methodologies.\n\nResearchers studying organizational learning have measured the knowledge acquired through various ways since there is no one way of measuring it. Silvia Gherardi measured knowledge as the change in practices within an organization over time, which is essentially learning from experience. In her study, she observed an organization acquire knowledge as its novices working at building sites learned about safety through experience and became practitioners. George Huber measured knowledge as the distribution of information within an organization. In his study, he noted that \"organizational components commonly develop 'new' information by piecing together items of information that they obtain from other organizational units.\" He gives the example of \"a shipping department [that] learns that a shortage problem exists by comparing information from the warehouse with information from the sales department.\"\n\nAn increasingly common and versatile measure of organizational learning is an organizational learning curve demonstrating experience curve effects. A learning curve measures the rate of a metric of learning relative to a metric for experience. Researcher Linda Argote explains that \"large increases in productivity typically occur as organizations gain experience in production.\" However, Argote also notes that organizations' rates of learning vary. Argote identifies three factors that affect these rates: increased proficiency of individuals, improvements in an organization's technology, and improvements in its structure (such as its routines and methods of coordination). Some organizations show great productivity gains while others show little or no gains, given the same amount of experience.The experience curves in Fig 1 plot the decreasing unit cost versus the total cumulative units produced, a common way to measure the effect of experience. The linear-linear input form on the left is transformed into the log-log form on the right to demonstrate that the proficiency increase correlates with experience.\n\nAttempts to explain variance of rates in organizational learning across different organizations have been explored in theoretical models. Namely the theoretical models conceived by John F. Muth, Bernardo Huberman, and Christina Fang.\n\nAn organization's experience affects its learning, so it is important to also study the context of the organizational climate, which affects an organization's experience. This context refers to an organization's characteristics, specifically its \"structure, culture, technology, identity, memory, goals, incentives, and strategy.\" It also includes its environment, which consists of its competitors, clients, and regulators. While this context establishes how knowledge is acquired by the organization, this knowledge modifies context as the organization adapts to it. The leader-initiated cultural context of learning has inspired key research into whether the organization has a learning or performance orientation, an environment of psychological safety, the group's superordinate identity, and group dynamics. Research into these concepts like Edmondson's study (1999) shows that an organization operating under a context promoting curiosity, information sharing, and psychological safety encourages organizational learning. \"Group learning dynamics\" is the subject of how groups share, generate, evaluate, and combine knowledge as they work together.\n\nKnowledge acquired through learning by doing can depreciate over time. The depreciation rate is affected by the turnover rate of individuals and how knowledge is stored within the organization. Organizations with higher turnover rates will lose more knowledge than others. Organizations with knowledge embedded in technology rather than individuals are more resistant to organizational forgetting. Examples: In the Liberty Shipyard study, in shipyards where relative input was reduced, individual unit cost increased even with increasing cumulative output. In shipyards with no relative input reduction, individual unit cost decreased with increasing cumulative output. In a study of airplane manufacturing at Lockheed, unit costs declined with experience, but this effect weakened over time.\n\nThree key processes that drive organizational learning are knowledge creation, knowledge retention, and knowledge transfer.\n\nKnowledge creation specifically concerns Experience that can be embedded within the organization. Experience is knowledge generated by direct exposure to the subject. This direct exposure is through tasks involving the needs, processes, and environment of the organization. Explicit and tacit knowledge are reinforced and become contextualized when the organization gains knowledge. While experience can produce outputs in data, information, or knowledge, experience in the form of knowledge is useful since this can be transferred, retained, and tacitly or explicitly utilized within organizational processes. Knowledge creation connects to creativity and its relationship to experience. Compared to knowledge transfer and knowledge retention, knowledge creation has not received much research attention.\n\nDimensions of experience are aspects of experience that impact the form and function of knowledge creation.\n\nKnowledge transfer concerns the mechanisms by which experience spreads and embeds itself within the organization. Knowledge transfer can be evaluated using various metrics, including learning curves that demonstrate process improvements over time by comparing the decrease in labor hours to complete a unit of production with the cumulative units produced over time. Wright's identification of organizational learning curves preceded more complex outcome considerations that now inform measures of knowledge transfer. While knowledge may transfer tacitly and explicitly as direct experience, organizations can introduce processes and knowledge management systems that facilitate this transfer. Researchers investigate the context of various factors and mechanisms affecting knowledge transfer to determine their beneficial and detrimental effects.\n\nFactors on knowledge transfer include the dimensions of the knowledge described in the prior section, as well as the contexts in which it occurs and mechanisms through which it can occur:\n\nKnowledge retention concerns the behavior of knowledge that has been embedded within the organization, characterized by the organizational memory. Organizational memory, quantified by measures such as cumulative knowledge and the rate of decay over time, is impacted by experience, processes and knowledge repositories that affect knowledge retention. Knowledge repositories are of key significance as they are intentional remedies to increase retention. Repositories can include the organization's rules and routines, altered by the processes of routine development and routine modification. Transactive memory systems are additional methods by which knowledge holders within the organization can be identified and utilized, subject to their development and performance. Organizations that retain the bulk of their knowledge in individuals are vulnerable to lose that information with high turn over rates. In a study of organizational learning in the automotive and fast food industries, Argote found that high turn over rates lead to lower productivity and decreased organizational memory.\n\nApplications of organizational learning research and contexts for organizational learning facilitation and practices are numerous. Experience curves can be used to make projections of production costs, compare performance across units, identify the effects of various processes and practices, and make informed financial decisions about how to allocate resources. Utilizing knowledge transfer and retention concepts to recognize, maintain, and reclaim embedded knowledge can help organizations become more efficient with their knowledge. Organizational learning theories and knowledge management practices can be applied to organizational design and leadership decisions.\n\nVarious knowledge management concepts and practices are the relevant products of organizational learning research. Work on knowledge transfer applies to knowledge retention and contributes to many of the applications listed below, including the practices of building learning organizations, implementing knowledge management systems, and its context for inter organizational learning and the diffusion of innovations.\n\nLearning organizations are organizations that actively work to optimize learning. Learning organizations use the active process of knowledge management to design organizational processes and systems that concretely facilitate knowledge creation, transfer, and retention. Organizational metacognition is used to refer to the processes by which the organization 'knows what it knows'. The study of organizational learning and other fields of research such as organizational development, System theory, and cognitive science provide the theoretical basis for specifically prescribing these interventions. An example of an organizational process implemented to increase organizational learning is the U.S. Army's use of a formally structured de-brief process called an after-action review (AAR) to analyze what happened, why it happened, and how it could be improved immediately after a mission. Learning laboratories are a type or learning organization dedicate to knowledge creation, collection, and control.\n\nLearning organizations also address organizational climate by creating a supportive learning environment and practicing leadership that reinforces learning. Creating a supportive learning environment and reinforcing learning depends on the leadership of the organization and the culture it promotes. Leaders can create learning opportunities by facilitating environments that include learning activities, establishing a culture of learning via norms, behaviors, and rules, and lead processes of discourse by listening, asking questions, and providing feedback. Leaders must practice the individual learning they advocate for by remaining open to new perspectives, being aware of personal biases, seeking exposure to unfiltered and contradictory sources of information, and developing a sense of humility.\n\nWhile learning processes depend on the context for optimizing knowledge transfer, the implementation of knowledge management systems incorporates technology into these processes. Knowledge management systems are technologies that serve as a repository, communication, or collaboration tool for transferring and retaining knowledge. Embedding knowledge in technology can prevent organizational forgetting and allow knowledge to transfer across barriers such as distance, organizational unit, and specialization. Knowledge management systems alone are not necessarily successful, but as a communication tool they tangibly reinforce individuals' ability to spread and reinforce their knowledge.\n\nOrganizational learning is important to consider in relation to innovation, entrepreneurship, technological change, and economic growth, specifically within the contexts of knowledge sharing and inter organizational learning. As one of the key dynamics behind the knowledge economy, organizational learning informs our understanding of knowledge transfer between organizations. Heterogeneous experience yields better learning outcomes than homogenous experience, and knowledge diffusion spreads heterogeneous experience across organizations. Diffusion of innovations theory explores how and why people adopt new ideas, practices and products. It may be seen as a subset of the anthropological concept of diffusion and can help to explain how ideas are spread by individuals, social networks, and organizations. Innovation policy, economic development initiatives, educational program endeavors, and entrepreneurial incubation and acceleration could all be informed by organizational learning practices.\n\nIn case no systematic approach has been applied when creating organizational memory systems, there is a risk of corporate amnesia. Environment of organizational amnesia leads to avoiding mistakes at all cost. Companies should create an environment where learning from mistakes is allowed in order to avoid them happening again. Corporate amnesia is said to be a double-edged sword – it helps to move on by forgetting the wrongdoing, but at the same time it creates a danger of repeating the same error all over again.\n\nOrganizations need to have an organizational memory, a documentation of their milestone events. That documentation needs to be accessible for all involved to have the ability to learn as an organization. Because organizations have a routine of forgetting what they have done in the past and why, organizational memory systems should be created to make the knowledge explicit so that the transparency, coordination and communication in the organizations increase and it becomes possible to learn from past mistakes. OL grows through processes but the essential material is individual's memory, culture and experience. Individual learning is the first level in OL. Transfer process to OL is synthesized by \"what people learn (know-what) and how they understand and apply this learning (know-how). While learning is the know-how, memory could be perceived as a storage area. Memory plays an active role in a learning process. In a transfer mechanism, mental models are an excellent way to share knowledge and to make it independent from individuals.\n\nOrganizational memory is an agglomerate of individual's memory, composed by data, information and knowledge. For those three levels of learning, five retention facilities are available:\n\n\nThe big deal of organizational memory is its availability to be used and re-used. It could represent a competitive advantage but its value is often underestimated because of the complexity to calculate it, even though sometimes employee's, customer's, supplier's, capital's and top management's memory values are budgeted.\n\nOrganization's memory needs technological solutions on its side. Technology is often associated with information or communication technology (IT) which relates to different software solutions that support the organization's memory and ease the transfer of knowledge \n. Technology can be a barrier if it is not accepted or there is not enough understanding of new technologies. Technology can open for example new ways of communicating, but it is different to find a shared acceptance for its utilization.\n\nIT is an enabler for codifying and distributing data and information as well as both tacit and explicit knowledge. A. Abdulaziz Al-Tameem also states that the interaction between humans and IT enhances OL. Different repositories are used within organization to store corporate knowledge as an extension for the memory. Maintaining organizational memory is enabler for efficient and effective processes and routines but most of all for profitable business.\n\nCulture is considered as the holding strength between members of an organization. Culture brings a representation of past learning and an instrument to communicate it through the organization.\n\nFinding shared vision is important to enable the adaptation of new systems and technologies that can be accepted by the organization and its members. Sharing a culture and encouraging knowledge sharing allows more efficient transfer of knowledge in organization between its levels. Sharing information between different cultures can be limited due to varying norms and it can end up in one or both sides hoarding knowledge \n\nWillingness to inquire can also be related to differences between culture groups or culture of multicultural organizations in general. Status, modesty, fear of embarrassment, etc. contribute to the interaction we decide or do not decide to initiate. It has been studied that organizational culture is one of the most important enablers in knowledge sharing. When the information is not shared due to hoarding based on cultural differences it becomes a major barrier in business.\n\nDifferent influential factors regarding characteristics of an organizational culture (especially in knowledge-centered cultures) affect the processes of knowledge management. these can include:\n\n\nOrganizations are evolving, which is sometimes causing interpretation of experiences more complex. Team members that are geographically apart, may only have an option to learn virtually through electronic devices instead of face-to-face. Communities of practice in virtual environments can create tacit knowledge shared between the different factors such as individual members, rules accepted and technologies used. Technology in this case affects the identity and learning patterns of the community. Building routines in a virtual team and the use of sophisticated technology such as video meetings, creates trust and psychological safety that enables learning.\n\nDeveloped by Crossan, Lane and White (1999) the 4I framework of organizational learning consists of four social processes; intuiting, interpreting, integrating and institutionalizing. It is proposed by Crossan et al. (1999) that organizational learning is a dynamic and iterative process between exploration and exploitation (March 1991) with feed forward flowing from individual level to organizational level and feedback from organizational to individual. A pivotal characteristic of the framework is the relationship and interplay between action and cognition that it assumes and portrays. It is a framework that was developed to specifically address the phenomenon of strategic renewal.\n\nJ. Schilling and A. Kluge (2009) have contributed to the M. Crossan, H. Lane and R. White (1999) 4I framework of organizational learning by identifying the barriers to the learning process. There is a wide variety of barriers in every level of each learning process identified as actional-personal, structural-organizational and societal-environmental.\n\nActional-personal barriers include such as individual attitudes, thinking, and behavior. Structural-organizational barriers are based in organizational technology, strategy, culture and formality of regulations. In addition to the 4I model, environment is also considered as relevant at all individual, group and organization levels and that is why societal-environmental barriers are also considered. Intuition process barriers are related to individual's lack of motivation or such as what is the freedom in the organization to 'think out of the box'. Societal-environmental barriers of intuition process relate e.g. to the unclear success criteria of the branch of the organization or to cultural misunderstandings. Interpretation process barrier can be e.g. lack of status or a conflict in a relationship between innovator and the group. Integration process barriers that take place at the organizational level can be such as the willingness to maintain positive self-image or the fear of punishment. If the idea is against beliefs commonly held in the industry, the whole sector might reject the idea. A major barrier is, if there is no top management's support for the innovative idea. A barrier to institutionalization process is when something previously learned has been forgotten – an innovation or lesson has not been put to practice so that it would become embedded into the structure, procedures and strategy. Some teams or employees may not have enough skills or knowledge to absorb the innovation or there is not enough trust towards the innovation. Management may also have a lack of skills to implement the innovation.\n\nSeveral challenges may be identified during the organizational learning process. Milway and Saxton (2011) suggest three challenges related to goals, incentives and processes.\n\nGenerational issues and employee turnover are also challenges that organizations might have to consider.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9986", "title": "Outline of education", "text": "Outline of education\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to education:\n\nEducation – in the general sense is any act or experience that has a formative effect on the mind, character, or physical ability of an individual. In its technical sense, education is the process by which society deliberately transmits its accumulated knowledge, skills, and values from one generation to another. Education can also be defined as the process of becoming an educated person.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHistory of education\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "102571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102571", "title": "Personal trainer", "text": "Personal trainer\n\nA personal trainer is an individual certified to have a varying degree of knowledge of general fitness involved in exercise prescription and instruction. They motivate clients by setting goals and providing feedback and accountability to clients. Trainers also measure their client's strengths and weaknesses with fitness assessments. These fitness assessments may also be performed before and after an exercise program to measure their client's improvements in physical fitness. They may also educate their clients in many other aspects of wellness besides exercise, including general health and nutrition guidelines. \n\nQualified personal trainers recognize their own areas of expertise. If a trainer suspects that one of their clients has a medical condition that could prevent the client from safe participation in an exercise program, they must refer the client to the proper health professional for prior clearance.\n\n The scope of practice for a personal trainer is to enhance the components of fitness for the general, healthy population.\n\nProper exercise prescription may result in improved body composition, physical performance, heart condition and health outcomes. The decision to hire a trainer may be related to a perceived ability to facilitate these factors through proper prescription and instruction or factors related to motivation and adherence. A trainer pays close attention to their client's exercise form, workout routine, and nutrition plan.\n\nFew studies have investigated training for men, however, training in women has been shown to exercise behavior patterns, improve perceptual benefit-to-concern ratio for exercise (decisional balance), and increase confidence to choose exercise in the face of other time demands (scheduling self-efficacy). Personal training results in higher strength, higher workout intensities, and higher perceived exertion during exercise in women. Although women working with personal trainers do self-select heavier loads than women who did not, the loads used are still below recommended training load percentages.\n\nThe profession is generally not restricted by venue, and personal trainers may work in fitness facilities, in their personal homes, in client homes, over live video (also called \"virtual personal trainers\"), or outdoors. Almost all personal trainers and group exercise instructors work in physical fitness facilities, health clubs, and fitness centers located in the amusement and recreation industry or in civic and social organizations. Personal training is not regulated in any jurisdiction in the United States except for Washington D.C. which adopted registration requirements for personal fitness trainers in February 2014.\n\nPersonal trainers may specialize in a certain training type, training philosophy, performance type, exercise modality, or client population. In general, most personal trainers develop exercise prescription plans for aerobic exercise, resistance exercise, and/or flexibility training. With aerobic exercise prescription, personal trainers determine the type of exercise, duration of exercise, and frequency of exercise. For resistance exercise prescription, the type of exercise, total session volume, rest period, frequency, and intensity are determined. Personal trainers may also be involved in prescription of stretching routines or other approaches. Personal trainers help clients to perform exercises with correct technique, minimising the risk of injury. While some discuss nutrition, ergogenic supplementation, and spiritual practices with clients, there is debate within the industry as to whether it fits within their scope of practice and training qualifications.\n\nPersonal trainer accreditation is a process that provides certification of competency as a personal trainer. Qualification standards for personal trainers vary between countries.\n\nIn Australia, personal trainers may work independently with suitable insurance or choose to be a member of a registering body (Fitness Australia or Physical Activity Australia). The qualifications levels include; Level 1 - Certificate III in Fitness, Level 2 - Certificate IV in Fitness and Level 3 - Diploma of Fitness. These can be obtained from nationally accredited colleges (TAFE, Australian College of Sport & Fitness, Fitness Industry Training, Global Fitness Institute, Australian Institute of Fitness, Australian Fitness Academy). Once working in the industry, trainers who are members of associations are also required to complete short courses to obtain continuing education credit (CEC) points they need to keep their registration. A minimum of 20 CEC points every two years is required. Many personal trainers also have additional qualifications in weight loss, strength training, kid's fitness, and nutrition, which is in part due to the CEC program. CEC courses can cover a wide variety of topics such as different training techniques, nutrition, exercise styles, health conditions, physiology, lifestyle and rehabilitation.\n\nIn Brazil, personal trainers must have a bachelor's degree in \"Physical Education\" (a degree that combines knowledge in the fields of Exercise Science and Healthcare science) and be registered with the Conselho Federal de Educação Física (Federal Council of Physical Education), and risk criminal charges if they operate without these two requirements.\n\nIn Canada, the main certifying bodies are Canadian Fitness Education Services (CFES), Canadian Fitness Professionals, Certified Personal Trainers Network, and Canadian Society of Exercise Physiology. CSEP requires a diploma or degree in the exercise field, most require experience and/or workshops. Ontario does not have any personal training regulation. Many personal trainers receive a CFES, CanFit Pro certification or an NCCA accredited certification. The National Personal Training Institute is the only private trade school and is a registered College under the Private Career Colleges Act.\n\nIn Europe, personal trainers may work independently, but will always need accreditation by one of the main certifying bodies such as:\n\nNASM: National Academy of Sports Medicine. NASM Certified Personal Trainers are eligible to join the European Register of Exercise Professionals (EREPS). The NASM has attributed to the success of personal trainers in Europe and accredited companies like UNITEDFIT in the Netherlands became recognized as a qualified fitness organization in Europe.\n\nEREPS: The European Register of Exercise Professionals (EREPS) is an independent process for the registering of instructors, trainers and teachers working in the European health, fitness and physical activity sector. It is a pan-European system, based on independent national registers, which culminate in a central European database.\n\nIn the UK, there are several ways to achieve a personal training qualification. Most personal training qualifications are accredited through awarding bodies like CYQ (Central YMCA Qualifications), Active IQ (Active International Qualifications) and City and Guilds. These qualifications are generally delivered by Further Education (FE) establishments like colleges, or by private training providers. Upon successful completion of an accredited awarding body qualification, candidates become eligible for Level 3 REPs(Register of Exercise Professionals)status. University graduates with an appropriate honours degree can also apply to become an approved by REPs through Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) and Accreditation of Prior Achievement (APA).\n\nREPs is the professional body for the UK health and fitness industry, and does not award qualifications directly. Most health and fitness qualifications endorsed by REPs vary in levels from 1 - 5, 1 being basic GCSE level and 5 being advanced specialized training professionals. For a qualification to become eligible for endorsement by REPs, it must conform to the National Occupational Standards (NOS), which are set at governmental level by the Sector Skills Council (SSC) Skills Active.\n\nThere is no legal restriction on the title of Personal Trainer nor any formal body associated with regulating Personal Training.\n\nA number of certifications are available in the U.S., although a number are not accredited. Most require a high school diploma, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and automated external defibrillator (AED) certification, and some type of examination.\n\nA 2002 investigation evaluated a random sample of 115 personal trainers using the Fitness Instructors Knowledge Assessment (FIKA) (which measures knowledge in nutrition, health screening, testing protocols, exercise prescription, and special populations). The study described that:\n\nIn partnership with the fitness industry, the International Health, Racquet & Sportsclub Association (IHRSA), which represents over 9,000 health and fitness facilities, started an initiative in 2002 to improve standards for both its own clubs and the industry as a whole. In January 2006, IHRSA implemented a recommendation that its facilities only accept personal trainers with certifications recognized by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) if recognized either by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) and/or the U.S. Department of Education (USDE). As a result, the Distance Education and Training Council (DETC) was recognized by IHRSA as a recognized accreditor of fitness professional certification organizations. Since then, the DETC has accredited several personal trainer certification organizations, including the Aerobics and Fitness Association of America (AFAA) and the International Sports Sciences Association (ISSA) among others. As of August 2012, NASM, ISSA, AFAA, ACSM and NSCA certifications are among the 15 accredited certifications recognized by IHRSA, three of which are accredited by the Distance Education Training Council (DETC).\n\nVarious organizations within the profession have lobbied for the adoption of a more stringent criteria for certification developed by the NSF International. There remains no national legal restriction on the industry to date except for the District of Columbia (D.C.) which as of February 2014, passed legislation requiring personal fitness trainers to register in that jurisdiction. The law went into effect in the first half of 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "3285629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3285629", "title": "Pygmalion in the Classroom", "text": "Pygmalion in the Classroom\n\nPygmalion in the Classroom is a 1968 book by Robert Rosenthal and Lenore Jacobson about the effects of teacher expectation on first and second grade student performance. The idea conveyed in the book is that if teachers' expectations about student ability are manipulated early, those expectations will carry over to affect teacher behavior, which in turn will influence how the students will perform on an IQ test. Inducing high expectations in teachers will lead to high levels of IQ test performance. Inducing low expectations, will lead to low IQ test performance.\n\nRobert L. Thorndike, the leading educational psychologist of his era, found serious flaws in the instrument used to assess the IQ scores of the children in the Pygmalion study. One regular class in the study had a mean Reasoning IQ score deep in the retarded range, an impossibility. Thorndike concluded that the study's findings were worthless, summing up his evaluation of the instrument by writing, \"When the clock strikes thirteen, doubt is not only cast on the last stroke but also on all that have come before...When the clock strikes 14, we throw away the clock.\" Meta-analytic research has found that the amount of time a teacher spends getting to know students prior to the induction of IQ-related expectancies reduces the impact of expectancy induction. The findings indicate when teachers have gotten to know their students for more than two weeks prior to expectancy induction, the influence of expectancy induction is virtually nil.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855050", "title": "Research associate", "text": "Research associate\n\nResearch associates are scholars and professionals that usually have an advanced degree beyond a bachelor's degree. The research associate position does not explicitly require mentoring and is a regular staff position with appointment letters processed by Human Resources. In contrast to a research assistant, a research associate often has a graduate degree, such as a master's (e.g. Master of Science) or in some cases Master of Engineering or a doctoral degree (e.g. Doctor of Philosophy, Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Pharmacy). In some cases it can be synonymous with postdoctoral research.\n\n"}
{"id": "21386019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21386019", "title": "Rock the World Youth Mission Alliance", "text": "Rock the World Youth Mission Alliance\n\nRock the World Youth Mission Alliance is a Christian ministry that trains young people as leaders. Their core training programs create an ongoing network of relationships where the grads and trainees collaborate to offer events and conferences, generate new ministries, and support one another in life and ministry.\n\nAmong other programs, Rock the World currently runs the Josiah Project, a summer collegiate leadership initiative; re:mix, an annual conference for young people ages 14–30; Ambridge Youth Ignite, a local ministry with kids in Rock the World’s home town of Ambridge, PA; and \"Next Step\" retreats for kids in middle school through high school. Rock the World's activities exist predominantly inside the USA but extend globally.\n\nMission of Rock the World\nThe stated mission of Rock the World is to “engage, equip and empower young people to advance God's Kingdom.” The longer version of their mission states “Rock the World’s mission is to mobilize young people to follow Jesus, grow together in knowledge and love of God, serve in the power of the Spirit, and impact the world for the Kingdom of God.” Both versions emphasize the capacity of Jesus' young disciples to make more disciples. The long-term goal of RTWYMA is to ignite a spiritual awakening among young people on every continent.\n\nRock the World is not legally a part of any denomination. At its founding, Rock the World was informally associated with the Episcopal Church. By the end of the 1990s this association had broadened to include a wide range of denominations. Although Rock the World is officially independent of any denomination, Anglican influence still finds expression through the involvement of so many Anglicans in the ministry.\n\nThe Rev. Whis Hays founded Rock the World in 1989. After 14 years in ministry with college, high school, and middle school young people, he saw the need for a new ministry that gave leverage to the energy, dedication, and fresh insight of young Christian leaders. His published works include numerous articles and films, the best known of which are his 1995 article “Arresting the New Sexual McCarthyism” and his 1980 film, “Jesus, Head of the Church.” He is also known for 16 years of teaching youth ministry courses as Associate Professor of Youth Ministry at Trinity School for Ministry, teaching there while serving in his position as Rock the World’s Executive Director.\n\nThe organization derives its name from the Bible's book of Acts, chapter 17 verse 6. The story makes it clear that Paul and his friends were not trying to make trouble, but only trying to speak about Jesus and act according to the Kingdom of God. Obviously, sometimes this shook up things around them! When young followers of Jesus do the same thing today, it's not unusual for them to get similar results.\n\nRock the World has offered 3 core training programs:\n\n1. In 1990 Rock the World launched the Josiah Project, a two-summer leadership program for college students. The main focus of this program is preparing students for a lifetime of leadership by giving them classroom training, hands-on experience, and the opportunity to launch new ministries. Josiah graduates are proving to be effective leaders: more than 90% of Josiah graduates continue to be involved in Christian ministry leadership today.\n\n2. Epicenter was a one-year internship program, launched in 2004, last offered in 2009. This one-year internship focused on student ministry leadership training, also including elements of cross-cultural ministry and planting of micro-church movements.\n\n3. Beginning in 1991, Rock the World's Student Ministry Professionals Program offered the first master's degree in youth ministry anywhere in the worldwide Anglican Communion in partnership with Trinity School for Ministry. Graduates prepared for a career in youth ministry through the local church. This program was offered for 15 years, through Spring Semester of 2006. The basic content of this training is still available through Rock the World's \"Striking Fire\" seminars.\n\nRock the World has become the platform for a number of new ministries launched by their graduates and trainees, some of which become a permanent part of Rock the World. Current programs and ministries that express this feature of Rock the World include Sonward Youth Programs; Heart for Jamaica; and Good Shepherd Anglican Church of Longview, TX. \n\nre:mix is a \"Kingdom Outbreak\" conference launched in 2003 for young adults and high school youth. The re:mix founder who is also a Josiah Project graduate, says “re:mix helps young people go further in with God and further out to spread Jesus' message of the Kingdom of God both locally and globally.” The re:mix conference is always offered alongside the New Wineskins conferences, and is also scheduled at other times and places.\n\nOne of these launches was Ambridge Youth Ignite (AYI), a holistic outreach to children and middle school youth in Rock the World's hometown of Ambridge, PA. AYI was created in 2004 by Josiah Project students Eric and Shea Rankin Geisbert who met while participating in Rock the World's Josiah Project. AYI's final program wrapped up in 2014. There have been many other programs launched this way, such as Three Nails, Pittsburgh Summer College Fellowship, Living Stones, and numerous others. \n\nSome programs that started within Rock the World have spun off to become their own ministries, such as inneracts. \n\nIncubation of new ministries is continuing as trainees and graduates are inspired to pursue fresh initiatives. Please check Rock the World's website for current information.\n\nRock the World also offers various retreats and weekend leadership training seminars, such as Striking Fire, a weekend training event, and Next Step, a retreat for middle school and high school kids themed on following Jesus. Rock the World also engages in various global initiatives, having consistent partnerships with All Nations Family and Anglican Global Mission Partners.\n\nRock the World’s trainees and graduates are spread out across most of the United States and several foreign countries, serving in churches, schools, and other contexts. Aside from founder Whis Hays, Rock the World’s longest-serving employees have been (in order of longevity) Meredith B., Steven Tighe, Carol Jaros, and Cynthia Seeliger Seifert. Some graduates especially well known in student ministry circles include Holly Rankin Zaher, Aran Walter, Joel Tassie, Dixon Kinser, Steven Tighe and Jack Gabig. Thousands of young people are touched by the ministries of Rock the World graduates, and hundreds decide to follow Jesus every year.\n"}
{"id": "16548071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16548071", "title": "Saint James School of Medicine", "text": "Saint James School of Medicine\n\nSaint James School of Medicine (SJSM) is a private, international medical school with two basic science campuses, one in British Overseas Territory of Anguilla, and the other in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, it is considered one school with two campuses. Saint James confers upon its graduates the Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree.\n\nSaint James School of Medicine was originally established in Bonaire in 1999 and began instruction in 2000. In 2010, Saint James opened a second campus in Anguilla. \nIn 2014, the School opened a third Caribbean medical school campus in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and began merging the Bonaire campus into the Saint Vincent and the Grenadines campus on the main island of Saint Vincent. At the conclusion of the Fall 2015 semester, Saint James Bonaire transferred its IMED listing and moved operations, students, and faculty to the St. Vincent and the Grenadines campus.\n\nThe MD program at Saint James is a 10 semester course of study that consists of three semesters per calendar year, each semester lasting four months. Semesters 1-5 are basic sciences completed at one of the school's two Caribbean campuses (Anguilla and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines). Semester 5 (Advanced Introduction to Clinical Medicine) was completed at Jackson Park Hospital in Chicago, Illinois, but the location of completion of this semester has since been changed. Starting in September 2017, semester 5 will be completed in one of the two school campuses in either Saint Vincent or Anguilla. After completion, students are expected to complete the United States Medical Licensing Exam (USMLE) Step 1, for which the school offers a pass guarantee In addition, the school has begun offering extended programs for students in the Basic Science program, offering the normal 5 semester Basic Science program, as well as a 6 and 7 semester Basic Science program.\n\nThe Clinical Science portion consists of semesters 6-10 that involve 96 weeks of clinical study that are completed at affiliated hospitals and clinical facilities in the United States. The website lists the following hospitals that it is affiliated with: \n\nBoth of Saint James School of Medicine's campuses are listed in the World Directory of Medical Schools (WDMS). Graduates of Saint James are eligible for the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) and ECFMG Certification, as well as the Canadian Medical Licensing Exams (Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Examination).\n\nIn September 2009, the Caribbean Accreditation Authority for Education in Medicine and other Health Professions (CAAM-HP) granted St. James' Anguilla campus initial accreditation as a developing school. In July 2015, CAAM-HP extended Saint James' Anguilla campus' initial provisional accreditation with probation for one year, until 2016. The Anguilla campus' CAAM-HP initial provisional accreditation with probation was extended for one year in July 2016. In August 2018, CAAM-HP extended Saint James' initial provisional accreditation again for one year. \n\nThe St. Vincent campus is registered with the National Accreditation Board (NAB) of the Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines. And is operating under a provisional accreditation from CAAM-HP. The campus was recently assessed for certification and is waiting on results.\n\nSaint James School of Medicine (SJSM) has entered into an arrangement with Delta Financial Solutions, Inc. (Delta) to provide qualified students with a private student loan program.\n\nStudent's have clubs that they can join, including an AMSA chapter, a Phi Chi chapter, as well as other clubs. The student body also volunteer to operate health screenings for the local community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53872855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53872855", "title": "Sallie Jones Atkinson", "text": "Sallie Jones Atkinson\n\nSarah Green \"Sallie\" Jones Atkinson (October 14, 1860 – November 14, 1943) was an American educator.\n\nAtkinson was a native of Dinwiddie County, Virginia, and was born into a family of educators. She and her husband, John Pryor Atkinson, donated land and timber for the construction of a high school in Dinwiddie County in 1911. The school, Sunnyside High School, went on to become the first eight-month rural school to gain accreditation in Virginia. As an educator Atkinson was also known for her support of the local 4-H Club and its students. She was also involved in the fight for women's suffrage in Virginia, serving on a state committee under Governor Andrew Jackson Montague which worked to convince him to allow women the right to vote. \n\nAtkinson died in Dinwiddie County, and was interred in the graveyard of Concord Presbyterian Church in Rawlings, in neighboring Brunswick County. Her name on the marker is given as \"Sally\".\n\nAtkinson was honored in 1986 by the erection of a historical marker by the Virginia Department of Conservation and Historic Resources; it is located in Dinwiddie County, near the town of McKenney.\n"}
{"id": "53362720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53362720", "title": "Sara Miranda Maxson Cobb", "text": "Sara Miranda Maxson Cobb\n\nSara Miranda Maxson Cobb (née Sara Miranda Maxson; also known as Sara M. Maxson-Cobb; September 30, 1858 – January 24, 1917) was a 19th-century American art teacher, artist, and writer from the U.S. state of New York. She served as director of the Art School of the Maine Wesleyan Seminary and Female College at Kents Hill, Maine, and taught drawing at Colorado State University.\n\nSara Miranda Maxson was born in Geneva, New York, September 30, 1858. She was the daughter of Dr. Edwin R. and Lucy Lanphear Maxson. She traces her lineage on her father's side to the Maxtons, of Maxton-on-the-Tweed, in Scotland. Her father's family came to America in 1701, after having been settled in England for generations. Her father, Edwin Robinson Maxson, A.M., M.D., LL.D., a graduate of Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, had been a lecturer on medical subjects in the colleges of Philadelphia and Geneva. His \"Practice of Medicine\" and \"Hospitals: British, French and American\" were well-known books. Her mother, Lucy Potter Lamphere, was of French-English ancestry. \n\nIn 1864, the family removed to Adams, New York, where Cobb spent much of her childhood. Her earliest education was received from her parents. When very young, she started writing for amateur papers. At the age of eight, happening to read an article on drawing, she tried her pencil at reproducing the simple cuts given in it for copying, with a success so surprising to herself that she then and there resolved to become an artist. Thereafter, she received training in drawing. In 1872, Cobb entered the Hungerford Collegiate Institute at Adams, where she studied for two years. The family removed to Syracuse. New York, in 1874, where, for five years, she studied in the public schools of that city, graduating at the Syracuse High School in 1879. For the next four years she was in the Liberal Art College of Syracuse University, where she graduated with the degree of Ph. B., in 1883. She then took up the painting course in the Fine Art College of the university, graduating with the degree of Bachelor of painting in 1886. In 1890. Syracuse Universitv granted her the degree of PhD, on examination in Art History. She was a member of the Alpha chapter of the college society, Alpha Phi.\n\nThrough the late Chancellor C. N. Sims of the university, she obtained the position of director of the Art School of the Maine Wesleyan Seminary and Female College at Kents Hill, Maine, a position she held from 1886 to 1890. During that time, in 1888, she was one of a large party to visit the United Kingdom and France. \n\nIn 1890, she was married to Professor Herbert Edgar Cobb, a member of the faculty at the Maine Wesleyan Seminary and a graduate of the Wesleyan University at Middletown, Connecticut. In the same year, her husband was called to a position on the faculty of the Colorado State University. At this university Mrs. Cobb was a teacher of drawing from 1890 to 1892. In the latter year, she and her husband removed to Chicago, Illinois, where her busband was employed for a time in the Extension Department of the University of Chicago, afterwards receiving a position on the faculty of the Lewis Institute, where he headed the Mathematical Department. In 1906 and 1907, her husband had leave of absence from the Lewis Institute, to pursue higher mathematical studies at the University of Berlin. Maxson-Cobb accompanied her husband on this trip, and taking art lectures at the University of Berlin.\n\nCobb was engaged in philanthropic work and the study of social science since 1892. A strong literary taste and sympathy for active philanthropic and Christian enterprise led her into many additional types of work. Her numerous poems, stories told in verse, translations from the German, travel correspondence, and articles on art subjects were included in prominent publications. Cobb was a believer in united action, and in the many societies to which she belonged, missionary, temperance, art, literary and scientific, she was recognized as a superior organizer and leader. Geology, microscopy and photography claimed a share of her attention, and she had an interesting collection of specimens of her own finding, slides of her own mounting and photographs of her own taking. She delighted in music and had a cultivated contralto voice. \n\nCobb died January 24, 1917 from apoplexy at the Frances Willard Hospital in Chicago, Illinois, after a very brief illness, and was buried in Union Cemetery, Adams Center, New York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8624045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8624045", "title": "School timetable", "text": "School timetable\n\nA school timetable is a table for coordinating these four elements:\n\nOther factors include the subject of the class, and the type of classrooms available (for example, science laboratories).\n\nSchool timetables usually cycle every week or every fortnight. The phrase \"school timetables\" largely refers to high schools, because primary schools typically have simple structures.\n\nHigh school timetables are quite different from university timetables. The main difference is that in high schools, students have to be occupied and supervised every hour of the school day, or nearly every hour. Also, high school teachers generally have much higher teaching loads than is the case in universities. As a result, it is generally considered that university timetables involve more human judgement whereas high school timetabling is a more computationally intensive task, see constraint satisfaction problem.\n\nPrimary school typically has timetables, however the timetable is usually so simple that it can be constructed manually or in a basic spreadsheet package.\n\nIn some countries and regions, such as China and East Africa, high school students are not given any choice in subjects, and this makes timetabling easy - the students can remain in the one room all day while the teachers rotate.\n\nIn other countries, such as United States, the whole school is typically run on a system of units, where each subject has the same number of lessons per cycle and subjects are placed into 'lines'. This also makes timetabling easy.\n\nIn countries, such as Australia, Canada, and most European countries, there generally exists a combination of the variants above, and timetables can be extremely difficult to construct. The process can take weeks of effort and typically computers are needed in the process.\n\nThe task of constructing a high school timetable involves the following issues (not an exhaustive list):\n\nA central issue which exists both in the American model (all lessons in all year-levels are organised into lines) and the European model (containing all the complexities listed above) is to provide an individualised curriculum for each student that provides for his/her strengths, weaknesses and personal preferences. Certain subjects lend themselves to setting, or organising students into ability groups. Mathematics is a good example, where some students in the same age range may be years ahead of their peers. There are other subjects where students benefit from placement in mixed ability groups. This is an ongoing debate amongst teachers.\n\nIt is widely believed that students should have a broad curriculum in their early years at school but that it should become increasingly specialised and deeper as they get older.\n\nThus, many secondary schools introduce \"options\" or \"electives\", typically at the age of 14. This presents the timetabler with many restrictions, since in any one teaching period several different subject specialists will be teaching that group of students. This is in contrast to the example above – Mathematics – where the same group will all be taught by mathematics specialists.\n\nThe terminology used in Australia is: 'class' is a group of students numbering typically 25 or less students, who will study the subject together. 'Classes' are arranged into 'lines' such that all the classes within one line will run at the same times. A 'course' may have 1 class or may have more, and if it has more, these classes can be in the same line or in different lines. Terminology in USA is: 'section' instead of 'class' and 'block' instead of 'line'.\n\nThere are many schools that fix their option blocks such that students must choose one subject in each block. This is a very poor way of approaching the problem, although in small schools staffing restrictions make it essential.\n\nIn larger schools, there is usually sufficient flexibility in staffing to allow students a free choice and staffing can then be adjusted accordingly. Large schools have the additional advantage that they can offer a wider range of subjects including those that only small numbers of students select.\n\nThe downside is that the bigger a school becomes, the less intimate it becomes. In a school of 300 students, it is reasonable to suppose that every individual student and teacher can \"know\" each other. In a school of 1,500 or more, this is practically impossible. A fair compromise is in the range of 700-1200.\n\nFor the timetabler, once the number of lessons for each subject are agreed, (The Curriculum) the sets and option blocks are the first thing to establish and fix. These can be thought of as stones in a river, and once fixed, the rest of the timetable flows around these mainly unmoveable lumps. This is especially true with courses that last more than one year, where it is preferable to have continuity with the same group and the same teacher.\n\nConstructing a secondary school timetable is complex but is more a problem of persistence than intelligence. In the long process it requires thousands of decisions, some of which are obscure in the extreme. Retaining flexibility as that process develops is the key issue.\n\nConstructing a large secondary school’s timetable is not simply a case of filling in a matrix, difficult though that often is. The timetable determines the movements of many hundreds of people for a year of their lives. All timetables are compromises between a myriad of differing interests and preferences. It requires an intimate knowledge of the detail of the lives of that community. It is not firstly a mathematical or organisational problem, it is a human one.\n\nIn the United States «TTh» (or sometimes «TTH» or «T-TH») and «MW» or «M-W» are used as unofficial short-hands for «Tuesdays and Thursdays» and «Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays». They are utilized when columns need to be very narrow on tables where the extra characters would create an unintended new row or other unwanted formatting issues. In many colleges in the US the standard three credit semester course meets either on Monday, Wednesday and Friday or on Tuesday and Thursday. The former is often written in schedule bulletins as simply MWF, the latter TTh. The version with a hyphen (T-TH) can be confusing as the hyphen means inclusive whereas a comma creates a list. For example, M-F means Monday through Friday, but T, TH means Tuesday and Thursday only.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11172826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11172826", "title": "Secondary education in Myanmar", "text": "Secondary education in Myanmar\n\nHigh schools in Myanmar () are operated by the Department of Basic Education under the Ministry of Education in Myanmar. The present education system has not changed since the re-opening of the schools in 1989, under the SLORC. After the collapse of socialist regime, the DBE updated the high schools education system that most of the study syllabus based in socialism were withdrawn and new version was introduced. Government high schools are now known as Basic Education High Schools (abbreviated BEHS), not State High Schools (SHS). The 9th Standard is regarded as the year one of the high school or Grade 10, and 10th Standard is the year two of the high school or Grade 11, where matriculation exams are held. At that time, matriculation exams covered both syllabus from the year one and the year two high school courses. Students who pass the matriculation exams are eligible to enter any universities and institutes according to their choices and total exam scores. Most teachers in Burmese schools are underpaid but some teachers seek high earnings from their private tuitions; an estimated 50 to 80% of students take private tuition classes apart from school lectures.\n\nColour code of the high schools' uniform is white top and green bottom, although some girls' uniforms are mixed designed. From basic Primary schools to High schools, the uniform with this colour code is designed for students and teachers. \n\nHigh schools students choose one of 2 tracks upon entering high school: science or arts. Science-specialized students have six major subjects: Myanmar, English, Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics and Biology. Arts-specialized students take six major subjects: Myanmar, English, Mathematics, Geography, History and Economics. The student life in Myanmar is much oppressed non-democratic if compared to the western student cultures. Most boarding schools accept more than 500 students per year. At today's context, boarding schools are quite competitive with each other, even creating some under-table enrolling culture black economy in the education market of Burma.\n\nStudents in all schools, including government schools, comprehensive schools and private boarding schools take the University Entrance Examination (), commonly referred to as the matriculation exam in English, administered by the Myanmar Board of Examinations. Students from government high schools and comprehensive schools can register for the examinations internally by the guidelines of school teachers, although students from private boarding schools have to register for the exams externally themselves. Students who attend international English-language schools or other private schools are not eligible to sit for the matriculation exam, nor are they allowed to enroll in Burmese universities.\n\nIn the meantime, comprehensive schools are developed as only minority rich families can afford to enroll their children. Schools in Yangon such as TTC Yangon, Dagon-1 and Kamayut-2 are among the most infamous high-fee-accepting schools. Those students who can afford boarding schools have to pay as high as 5 millions kyats a year for an overall care of a student (including accommodation, health care and food). Poor students from sub-urban districts cannot afford the high education fees, and thus, critics argue Myanmar education system is most unfair. People hope there will be a fairer education system in the future so that parents will no longer need to spend extra cash to send their children to the expensive schools. Currently, a dispute rises in Myanmar education system when the government enacted against school teachers teaching private tuition.\n\n"}
{"id": "3732744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3732744", "title": "Secrets of a Successful Marriage", "text": "Secrets of a Successful Marriage\n\n\"Secrets of a Successful Marriage\" is the twenty-second and final episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> fifth season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on May 19, 1994. In the episode, Homer fears he may be a little slow, so he goes to the adult education center. While there, he decides to teach a class of his own on the secrets of a successful marriage, since that is the only class he is qualified to teach. However, to keep his students interested, he is forced to tell personal secrets about his wife Marge, which she dislikes, leading up to Homer getting kicked out of the house.\n\nThe episode was written by Greg Daniels and directed by Carlos Baeza. It features cultural references to the plays \"Cat on a Hot Tin Roof\" and \"A Streetcar Named Desire\", and the films \"...And Justice for All\", \"A Few Good Men\", \"Patton\", and \"Chinatown\". The episode has been analyzed in books such as \"Leaving Springfield\" and \"Education in Popular Culture\". Since airing, the episode has received mostly positive reviews from television critics. It acquired a Nielsen rating of 9.8, and was the second highest-rated show on the Fox network the week it aired.\n\nAfter Homer realizes that he is \"slow\", Marge recommends that he take an adult education course at the annex center. Down at the center, however, Homer changes his mind and decides to become a teacher. He talks to the administrator and accepts an opening to teach a class on having a successful marriage. Despite being confident that he can pull it off, he is frightened on his first day and is unable to help his pupils with their relationship problems. The class collectively gets up to leave, but when Homer mentions his conversation with Marge in bed, the class decides to stay, eager to hear gossip. Marge soon discovers that everyone in town knows her personal secrets, reacting by confronting Homer about it and he promises to stop. He instead continues telling her secrets anyway. Homer then takes the night off teaching class by having his class observe the family over dinner.\n\nMarge finally loses her temper and sends Homer and the class out of the house. When Homer tries to get back in, Marge stops him, saying she can no longer trust him, and refuses to let him back in. Homeless, Homer stays in Bart's treehouse. Marge tries to reassure Bart and Lisa that she and Homer love the kids, despite their current situation, but Lisa and Bart are worried their parents will get divorced. Marge tries to get advice from Reverend Lovejoy, who tells her to get a divorce.\n\nWhile Homer longs for his wife, Moe comes by the Simpsons' house to declare his interest in Marge, who turns him down. When Homer comes into the house with flowers he picked for Marge, Moe sees him and jumps out the window. Standing before her in rags, Homer professes his total and utter dependency on Marge, and she tells him that isn't a good thing, but Homer then makes his winning argument: he loves her, he needs her to love him, and can't afford to ever lose her trust again or he will end up dead. Marge is won over and allows Homer to return to the house. The family is glad that he has returned, although Moe is less than thrilled.\n\nThe episode was written by Greg Daniels and directed by Carlos Baeza. It was the second script Daniels wrote for the show. He thought the staff had previously done many episodes where Homer \"wasn't good at anything\", so he tried to figure out something Homer was really good at, and he came up with the idea of Homer being a good husband. While Bart had been the star of the show during the early years, by Season 5, the focus had clearly shifted to Homer. Writer/showrunner Al Jean stated that because Homer is an adult character, he has more depth to him and thus storyline possibilities. Showrunner David Mirkin commented: \"Bart, to write him accurately as a child, he can only have so much depth at a certain age. With Homer, we try to explore all levels of adulthood. There are just more places to go. Writing Homer properly is the trick, he's our main rock of the whole series. Homer's IQ is fairly flexible, he won't necessarily understand how to open a door at some point, but he can name the Supreme Court justices. Finding that balance is key to making the show work and making it surprising and making it believable and emotionally grounded.\" Mirkin was very fond of the fact that Homer and Marge have the biggest fight they have ever had on the show in the episode, and he thought it was a \"really great\" exploration of their marriage. He noticed that because Homer is thrown out of the house, the audience really worry about their relationship. Mirkin had been asked many times why Marge and Homer are still together, to which he replied that all people stay together even if they argue, \"there's some sort of connection\".\n\nHomer sings the end of the theme song to \"Family Ties\" while talking to an administrator at the annex center. Smithers's recollection of his marriage parodies the two plays \"Cat on a Hot Tin Roof\" and \"A Streetcar Named Desire\", both written by American playwright Tennessee Williams. Homer's bedroom rant to Marge is a parody mishmash of four popular films: \"...And Justice for All\" (1979), \"A Few Good Men\" (1992), \"Patton\" (1970), and \"Chinatown\" (1974). He says: \"Look Marge, you don't know what it's like. I'm the one out there every day putting his ass on the line. And I'm not out of order! You're out of order. The whole freaking system is out of order. You want the truth? You want the truth?! You can't handle the truth! 'Cause when you reach over and put your hand into a pile of goo that was your best friend's face, you'll know what to do! Forget it, Marge, it's Chinatown,\" all of which are lines from those films.\n\nIt was revealed in a flashback in the episode that Smithers was briefly married to a woman, but the two split up when he devoted too much time to his boss Mr. Burns. Smithers's relationship with Mr. Burns has long been a running joke on \"The Simpsons\". His sexual orientation has often come into question, with some fans claiming he is a \"Burns-sexual\" and only attracted to his boss, while others maintain that he is, without a doubt, gay. Matthew Henry wrote in the book \"Leaving Springfield\" that this episode is \"perhaps the best\" example of an attempt to portray an actual gay lifestyle on the show. Henry added that the flashback is a \"wonderfully rendered parody of scenes from two of Tennessee Williams's most famous plays, \"Cat on a Hot Tin Roof\" and \"A Streetcar Named Desire\". To fully appreciate it, one must know something of not only the two plays cited but also of Williams himself, of his own struggles with both heterosexual and homosexual desires and the way in which these struggles were incorporated into his art. The creators of \"The Simpsons\" offer what I think is a perfect parallel for the relationship between Smithers and Mr. Burns by combining Williams's two most notable male characters and their defining characteristics: the suppressed homosexual desire of Brick and desperate dependence of Stanley.\"\n\nIn their book \"Education in Popular Culture\", Alma Harris, Roy Fisher, Ann Harris, and Christine Jarvis analyzes the adult education aspects of this episode that portrays adult learners as \"stupid and lazy\". After Homer is appointed as a teacher, he feels immensely proud and boasts to all his acquaintances about it, initially making it seem like if the show is indicating that adult education tutors have a relatively high status in society. \"However,\" the authors added, \"Homer's pride is undercut for the audience by the awareness of how he came to be appointed and by the subsequent representation of the adult education center. It seems that anyone can become a tutor. [...] Homer's fellow tutors are drunks, incompetents and down-and-outs, adult education is therefore presented as an amateur business staffed by the dregs of society.\" The writers of the book thought the whole idea of storytelling and building on experience that Homer uses, and that many adult education tutors uses in real life, is represented in the episode \"simply as an excuse for gossip and prurient curiosity\". They also thought that statements like \"I can't believe I paid ten thousand dollars for this course. What the heck was the lab fee for?\" imply that adult education is \"exploitative and poor value for money, and that the students themselves contribute to this by demanding an essentially recreational service.\" The authors concluded that the episode \"certainly sustains a popular view of adult education as pointless and recreational. Similarly, no value whatsoever is attributed to the extensively researched, proven through practice and well-argued perspective that adult learners do best when the curriculum builds on and values their experience.\"\n\nIn its original American broadcast, \"Secrets of a Successful Marriage\" finished forty-third in the ratings for the week of May 16 to May 22, 1994, with a Nielsen rating of 9.8. The episode was the second highest-rated show on the Fox network that week, following \"Melrose Place\".\n\nSince airing, the episode has received positive reviews from television critics. The authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, thought it was a \"confident finale\" to the fifth season, which \"had seen the series become progressively more surreal and self-aware.\" DVD Movie Guide's Colin Jacobson wrote that he thought the episode ended the season with a \"high note\", and that Homer’s insensitive gossiping about his relationship \"presents lots of good bits. It completes this excellent year well.\" Jacobson's favorite line of the episode was \"This is a place of learning, not a house of hearing about things!\", which Homer tells his class after they demand him to reveal more secrets about him and Marge. Patrick Bromley of DVD Verdict gave the episode a grade of A−, and commented that episodes focusing on the relationship between Homer and Marge can \"never fail\", and there are \"numerous opportunities for some classic Homer-isms\" in the episode. Bill Gibron of DVD Talk gave the episode a score of 4 out of 5. One-time \"Simpsons\" writer and comedian Ricky Gervais named \"Secrets of a Successful Marriage\" his fifth favorite episode of the show, and commented that Homer's line to Marge, \"I know now what I can offer you that no one else can. Complete and utter dependence,\" is \"so sweet, because he's right!\" It was placed at number seven on \"MSNBC\"'s top ten \"The Simpsons\" episodes list. They felt the episode embodied Homer's qualities of being \"stupid, good-natured and mildly pathetic, [...] from his conversations with his brain [...] to his final proclamation that the one thing he can give Marge that no one else can is 'complete and utter dependence'.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "29188303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29188303", "title": "Talpiot College of Education", "text": "Talpiot College of Education\n\nThe Talpiot College of Education (המכללה האקדמית תלפיות) is a religious teacher training college in Holon, Israel. It prepares teachers “in the spirit of the \"Mamlachti dati\" (state religious) education system”.\n\nIt was founded in 1937 by Jacob Alishkovsky and was originally called the \"Talpiot \"Beit Midrash\" for Kindergarten Teachers\".\n\nThe college is accredited by the Council for Higher Education in Israel and offers specialized Bachelor of Education degrees in the following tracks: early childhood; elementary school; secondary school; special education; educational counseling.\n\nThe college established Midreshet Aviv in 1998 as an institution of Torah Study “\"lishma\"” (for its own sake). Midreshet Binat is also associated with the college.\n\nMidreshet Aviv is a Midrasha in Tel Aviv. It was founded in 1996 by Rabbi Yaakov Ariel, in conjunction with the Talpiot College of Education. Midreshet Aviv's goal is to cater to the small orthodox community in Tel Aviv, with a focus on the girls who want to strengthening their religious knowledge and commitment. the school had 400 students.\n\nThe Midrasha offers several programs. \n\nThe Midrasha and its students are continuously involved with community based work centred in Tel Aviv, an opportunity to strengthen Torah values in the Gush Dan area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26551175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26551175", "title": "Teaching Ethics", "text": "Teaching Ethics\n\nTeaching Ethics is a peer-reviewed academic journal devoted to the philosophical examination of ethical issues in all disciplines. Its mission is to foster dialogue about ethics instruction across disciplinary boundaries, with a focus on business, medicine, technology, law, and other areas of liberal education. Notable contributors include Michael Davis, Deni Elliot, Mollie Painter-Morland, Lisa Newton, Louis Pojman, Wade Robison, and Holmes Rolston III. It is sponsored by the Society for Ethics Across the Curriculum and members receive the journal as a benefit of membership. Members of the American Association of Philosophy Teachers and the Philosophy Learning and Teaching Organization also have access to this journal. It is published by the Philosophy Documentation Center.\n\n\"Teaching Ethics\" is abstracted and indexed in Academic Search, Education Research Complete, Philosopher's Index, PhilPapers, and TOC Premier.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9452661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9452661", "title": "Tom Clancy's ruthless.com", "text": "Tom Clancy's ruthless.com\n\nTom Clancy's ruthless.com is a turn-based strategy video game based on Tom Clancy's Power Plays novel \"ruthless.com\". It was published in 1998 by Red Storm Entertainment. \"ruthless.com\" puts the player in the position of CEO of a new software company. The game features a campaign mode, six different scenarios of varying difficulty, and a multiplayer option.\n\nThis is a game of economic intrigue and corporate maneuvering. As the new CEO of a software company, players must scheme and strategize, form and break alliances, undertake sometimes criminal actions and do whatever it takes to get the company to the top and keep it there.\n\nPlaying in a board-game-like environment, players can choose to play any of six individual scenarios or a full campaign. The scenarios each have fundamentally different parameters. Players at an advanced point in the action with opposing corporations already established and a small history already in place.\n\nThe campaign is more freeform and the player with only one building and three departments with no immediate opponents. While objectives vary for the scenarios, in the campaign game the player must control seventy-five percent of the market for four turns.\n\nSetting up a game involves determining how long is it going to last—between 20, 40 or 60 turns. You also choose the level of AI you wish to play against, novice, intermediate or expert. Lastly, players can set their own difficulty level that indicates how far they can go into debt before losing (bankruptcy). On the easy setting, players can incur debt up to $10,000, medium $5,000 and hardest $2,500.\n\nOther selections include naming the corporation and selecting a CEO. Each CEO has a unique benefit that he or she brings with labels like \"Talented,\" \"Whiz Kid\" or \"Banker.\" These benefits add, as examples, five percent per level to all computer points generated (Whiz Kid) or let you go twice as deep in debt before becoming bankrupt and losing the game (Banker).\n\nGameplay in Tom Clancy's ruthless.com is turn-based. Each turn, you gives CEO two orders, choosing from the Corporate, R&D, Marketing, Admin, Human Resources, Acquisitions, Legal, Security and Computer groups. Each group contains action orders such as \"build new department\" and \"build new product\" in the Corporate group, \"executive training\" in the Admin group and \"assassinate executive\" in the Security group.\n\nAt the end of each round, players get a comparative report that informs them on any newsworthy events such as how well (or how poorly) each company's stock prices are doing and any tragedies or executive promotions. As chosen executive(s) (you can hire more as the game progresses) gain experience, they're considered higher-level and sometimes gain additional traits (bonuses like the ones they start out with—as a Banker, Whiz Kid and so on).\n\nEach round players attempt to acquire a larger portion of the market (represented by tiles on the game board). Doing this involves carrying out executive orders and negotiating to acquire the start-up companies that occasionally pop up around the game board.\n\nThe game takes place on a map that represents the market share of all the competing companies. Each player in the game is a CEO of a software company. Legal, security, and computer attacks are common in the game. Competition comes from the fight over market shares (map squares). A CEO builds their initial buildings and puts their product into the market. Once on the market a product's quality will determine its dominance in the market. Dominance in the market provides income to build additional buildings, bid for takeovers, or launch different kinds of attacks against the competitors.\n\nGameSpot reviewed the game in 1999, awarding 6.3 out of 10. Main criticisms included the shortness of the campaign, limited scenarios and lack of replayability. However, the multiplayer mode was deemed \"about as much fun as turn-based multiplayer games can be\". The graphics were also highlighted, with a well designed interface and inventive visuals.\n\nIn Game Revolution, the game was awarded a B+. The gameplay, multiplayer mode and interface were praised, while the main criticisms included the start difficult and the \"poorly explained manual\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32361338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32361338", "title": "University of Applied Science and Technology", "text": "University of Applied Science and Technology\n\nThe University of Applied Science and Technology (UAST) () is a public university system administrated by Ministry of Science, Research and Technology with various branches all over the Provinces of Iran.\nThis university helps to increase skill level of employed personnel in various sectors of economic field and graduates of higher education and professional skills that are lacking in administrative. It is an educational system inspired and derived from 'Community College' in the United States. With more than 1500 education center in all corner of I.R. Iran. UAST confers degrees in over 100 programs at the associate, bachelor's and master's degree levels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22871674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22871674", "title": "University of Puthisastra", "text": "University of Puthisastra\n\nThe University of Puthisastra (UP) is a private university in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. UP was recognized by the Royal Government of Cambodia under a sub-decree signed by Hun Sen, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia, on 15 November 2007. UP has also been awarded full accreditation, for its Foundation Year Course, by the Accreditation Committee of Cambodia (ACC).\n\nUP celebrates more than a decade of excellence in health science and technology and aims to train and inspire the next generation of doctors, dentists, pharmacists, nurses, midwives, laboratory technicians, computer scientists and technology entrepreneurs. UP focuses on the health sciences and science and technology has eight departments (Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Nursing, Midwifery, Medical Laboratory, and ICT) and a Center for Health Counselling.\n\n"}
{"id": "3562981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3562981", "title": "Welsh Not", "text": "Welsh Not\n\nThe Welsh Not (also Welsh Knot, Welsh Note, Welsh Stick, Welsh Lead or Cwstom) was an item used in Welsh schools in the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries to stigmatise and punish children using the Welsh language.\n\nTypically \"The Not\" was a piece of wood, a ruler or a stick, often inscribed with the letters \"WN\". This was given to the first pupil to be heard speaking Welsh. When another child was heard using Welsh, \"The Not\" was taken from its current holder and given to the latest offender. Whoever was in possession of \"The Not\" was encouraged to pass it on to any of their Welsh-speaking classmates by informing the teacher that they had caught someone else speaking Welsh. The pupil in possession at the end of the day was subjected to a flogging or other punishment (some reports suggest the punishment was administered at the end of the week, or at the end of each lesson).\n\nThe effect of \"The Not\" was to stigmatise the use of the Welsh language among children, and engender the idea that English, as the preferable medium of instruction, was the language of moral progress and opportunity.\n\nAlthough this was never official government policy, the practice and wider social changes of the nineteenth century saw many Welsh speakers come to view the speaking of Welsh as a disadvantage.\n\nThe use of \"The Not\" was recorded as early as the 18th century, and there is strong evidence of numerous incidents in both Anglican and Nonconformist schools throughout Carmarthen, Ceredigion and Meirionnydd, it was commonly known as the 'cwstom', the 'Welsh stick' or the 'Welsh lead' (if a lump of lead was used).\n\nThe most frequent use of the Welsh Not in schools appears to be in the first decades following the publication of the government's Reports of the commissioners of enquiry into the state of education in Wales in 1847.\n\nThe reports noted that schools in Wales were inadequate, with English monoglot teachers and English textbooks in use in areas where the children spoke only Welsh. It concluded that the Welsh as a race were \"ignorant\", \"lazy\" and \"immoral\", and that one of the main causes of this was the continuing use of the \"evil\" Welsh language.\n\nThe Reports had great influence in Wales, becoming known as \"Brad y Llyfrau Gleision\" (the Treachery of the Blue Books) among Welsh speakers, and supporting the removal of Welsh as a moral endeavour. In linking the Welsh language with low educational standards and poor morality, the report also highlighted the effective use of the \"Welsh Not\" and, while it did not officially endorse it's use, it popularised the method as an effective tool for educators throughout Wales.\n\nThe use of the \"Welsh Not\" appears to have decreased with the introduction of compulsory education in the later decades of the 19th century. After the school boards were absorbed by the county councils following the Local Government Act 1888, instruction in Welsh became the norm in primary schools in Welsh-speaking areas. However, incidents of the \"Welsh Not\" were still reported.\n\nOwen Morgan Edwards describes his experience of the Welsh Not in school in Llanuwchllyn in his book \"Clych Atgof\".\n\nSusan Jones, Member of Parliament for Clwyd South, claimed in 2010 that the use of the Welsh Not, including caning as the punishment, persisted in some schools in her constituency until \"as recently as the 1930s and 1940s\". A woman in a village in Wrexham Maelor stated that the Welsh Not was in use in her school in the 1940s. In 2018 Gwyn James, then living in another Wrexham Maelor village, and a monoglot Welsh speaker as a child, was reported to have had the board placed around his neck in school in the 1930s for not using English in the classroom.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28586082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28586082", "title": "Youth Volunteer Corps", "text": "Youth Volunteer Corps\n\nYouth Volunteer Corps,(YVC), is a non-profit service organization operating throughout the United States and Canada that was created to introduce, encourage, and support the spirit of volunteerism in youth ages 11 to 18 through consistent, well-organized volunteer opportunities. It began in 1987 as a single organization in Kansas City, Missouri, sponsored by the Heart of America United Way and was funded by numerous public and private sources.\n\nSince then YVC has grown to dozens of affiliated sites in the United States and Canada, sponsored locally by diverse community-based organizations such as Volunteer Centers, YMCA, Boys and Girls Clubs, Camp Fire, United Way, City Parks & Recreation, and school districts. Funding is provided by foundations, corporations, individuals, United Way, and both the local and federal government.\n\nMission: “We create volunteer opportunities to address community needs and to inspire youth for a lifetime commitment to service.”\n\nThe stated goals of YVC are:\n\nExamples of projects include:\n\nYVC is a membership organization where affiliates (or local YVC sites), are provided with training, fundraising opportunities, support and programming. The program consists of two fundamental components:\n\nSummer Component: Youth volunteer on extended projects throughout the summer, allowing for the opportunity to see larger outcomes and accomplishments. Youth are a part of a team supervised by trained adult Team Leaders where they learn teamwork, appreciation for diversity and civic responsibility.\n\nSchool-Year Component: Youth serve as teams during the school year service projects after school and on weekends. Additionally, YVC program directors, team leaders and staff work with teachers to design and implement age-appropriate service projects that tie school curriculum to community service.\n\nAs part of his college senior thesis project research in 1985, YVC President David Battey interviewed leaders in the newly forming youth service field. He found that while service opportunities were sporadically available through schools, churches and synagogues, a broad-based community organization offering challenging, organized service opportunities to youth of all ethnic and socio-economic backgrounds was not consistently available.\n\nDeveloping a framework for such an organization, Battey returned to his hometown of Kansas City and established the Youth Volunteer Corps of Greater Kansas City under the sponsorship of Heart of America United Way and with funding from public and private sources.\n\n"}
