{"id": "40653405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40653405", "title": "1981 Entumbane uprising", "text": "1981 Entumbane uprising\n\nThe 1981 Entumbane uprising, also known as the Battle of Bulawayo or Entumbane II, occurred between 8 and 12 February 1981 in and around Bulawayo, Zimbabwe amid political tensions in the newly independent state. Zimbabwe People's Revolutionary Army (ZIPRA) guerrillas, mainly in the city's western suburb of Entumbane, rebelled, creating a situation that threatened to develop into a fresh civil war, barely a year after the end of the Bush War. The Rhodesian African Rifles (RAR) and other white-commanded elements of the former Rhodesian Security Forces, fighting for the Zimbabwean government as part of the new Zimbabwe National Army, put down the uprising. Groups of Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army (ZANLA) fighters attacked both ZIPRA and the government forces during the revolt, which followed a smaller outbreak of fighting between guerrillas in November 1980.\n\nThe uprising began in earnest around 20:00 local time (CAT) on 11 February when fighting broke out between the two guerrilla factions in Entumbane, each of which also attacked the local RAR headquarters. When ZIPRA armoured personnel carriers moved on Bulawayo from Essexvale, to the south-east, four armoured cars from the former Rhodesian Armoured Corps, supported by A Company, 1RAR, engaged and defeated them. Meanwhile, C and D Companies, 1RAR were pocketed by numerically superior groups of ZIPRA fighters. By the evening of 12 February, the uprising was over; C and D Companies were relieved, ZIPRA ceased their attacks and their armoured battle group at Essexvale surrendered to the National Army.\n\nThe official count of those killed during the uprising was 260 people; historians place the number of dead higher. The Zimbabwe National Army suffered no fatal casualties. Binda calls the battle the RAR's greatest victory, writing that the troops were greatly outnumbered, but won through superior professionalism and discipline. Several analysts comment on the irony that Mugabe and ZANU–PF were saved from a major rebellion by white-led ex-Rhodesian troops. The battle was the RAR's last; its personnel were reassigned to other units when it was disbanded later in 1981. The rebellion's defeat, meanwhile, prompted mass desertions by ZIPRA guerrillas fearing retribution from the Mugabe administration. Indeed, the uprising partially fuelled Mugabe's bloody \"Gukurahundi\" campaign against Matabeleland later in the 1980s.\n\nFollowing the Unilateral Declaration of Independence by the mostly white minority government of Rhodesia (or Southern Rhodesia) from the United Kingdom in 1965, the southern African country entered a period of international isolation as an unrecognised state under Ian Smith. Black nationalist movements, backed by communist powers and themselves variously Marxist–Leninist, launched military campaigns to overthrow Rhodesia's Government and bring majority rule to the country; the main nationalist groups were the Zimbabwe African National Union (ZANU), which was Chinese-backed, mostly Shona and influenced by Maoism, and the rival Zimbabwe African People's Union (ZAPU), which was largely Ndebele, more orthodoxly Marxist–Leninist and supported by the Warsaw Pact and associated nations, prominently Cuba. Each nationalist group fielded a guerrilla army—ZANU's was called the Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army (ZANLA), while ZAPU's was the Zimbabwe People's Revolutionary Army (ZIPRA). ZAPU was led by Joshua Nkomo, a trade unionist from Bulawayo in Matabeleland, while ZANU was headed from 1975 by a former teacher from Mashonaland, Robert Mugabe.\n\nThe black nationalist campaigns, referred to by the revolutionaries as the Second \"Chimurenga\" (liberation war), began in earnest in December 1972. During the ensuing Bush War, ZANLA and ZIPRA fought the Rhodesian Security Forces, and also regularly clashed with each other, despite their parent organisations being superficially allied from 1976 as the Patriotic Front. The war ended in December 1979 with the Lancaster House Agreement in London, following which Britain took interim direct control of the country to oversee fresh elections during early 1980. These were won by ZANU, which added \"Patriotic Front\" to its name (thereby becoming \"ZANU–PF\"), and Mugabe became the first Prime Minister of Zimbabwe when the UK granted independence in April 1980. Nkomo was made Minister of Home Affairs in the new Government.\n\nWith the transfer of political power, the Rhodesian Army, ZANLA and ZIPRA began to be merged to form the new Zimbabwe National Army. ZANLA and ZIPRA personnel were mixed into new battalions, guerrillas were picked out for officer training, and old Rhodesian units were variously disbanded or earmarked for reform. In some cases the latter meant only a change of symbolism and nomenclature; the Rhodesian Air Force, for example, remained almost all white as the Air Force of Zimbabwe. Every one of the approximately 34,000 guerrillas was promised a place in the new army. In the meantime they would wait in respective ZANLA and ZIPRA assembly camps around the country with pay and rations identical to those of black privates in the old Rhodesian forces.\n\nThough the \"Chimurenga\" was over, tensions between ZANLA and ZIPRA cadres, officially referred to in the war's aftermath as \"associated forces\", endured, particularly in Matabeleland. These rifts were partially tribal-based, but largely political; ZIPRA fighters complained that their counterparts from ZANLA seemed to be favoured for promotions and supplies, while ZANLA suspected ZIPRA of plotting insurrection. ZANU–PF politicians began to call for a one-party state, saying that this would make Zimbabwe stronger. As the process of military integration dragged on, groups of fighters from both forces deserted and roamed the countryside, robbing stores and killing white farmers. Sources differ regarding how much of this was perpetrated by ZANLA personnel and how much by ZIPRA men; each side blamed the other. Mugabe accused ZIPRA elements of \"refusing to recognise the sovereignty of the Government\", but stopped short of attacking the ZAPU leadership. With the new army's ex-guerrilla battalions still far from ready, the Zimbabwean Government leaned heavily on former Rhodesian units under white command to maintain law and order during this period. Feeling he needed to secure ZANU–PF's position, Mugabe signed a secret deal with North Korea in October 1980 whereby the Asian country would provide instructors and equipment for an elite brigade that would handle political dissidents and report directly to the Prime Minister.\n\nAfter the Minister of Finance Enos Nkala railed against Nkomo and ZAPU at a Bulawayo political rally in November 1980, saying they had \"become the enemy of ZANU–PF\" and should be challenged by \"vigilante committees\", ZANLA and ZIPRA veterans clashed near the city's western township of Entumbane for two days. Hundreds were killed or wounded before the Prime Minister sent ex-Rhodesian units to intervene. This incident deepened the feeling of distrust and unease that permeated the country and the National Army's integrated battalions. Concerned by ZAPU's apparent political marginalisation, ZIPRA commanders in Matabeleland built up their forces. Over 6,000 ZIPRA troops assembled at Gwaai River Mine, to the north-west of Bulawayo, with Soviet-made T-34 tanks, BTR-152 armoured personnel carriers (APCs) and anti-aircraft guns; another ZIPRA base at Essexvale, to the south-east, formed an armoured battle group including 10 T-34s. Tensions escalated further when Mugabe removed Nkomo from Home Affairs on 10 January 1981 and made him a minister without portfolio instead, in what many in Zimbabwe saw as a demotion. According to Brigadier Mike Shute, then head of the Zimbabwe National Army's 1 Brigade, groups of ZANLA and ZIPRA guerrillas, theoretically under his command, were soon \"all over the place and having continual clashes and minor battles with each other\". Many became convinced that a second civil war was imminent.\n\nThe Zimbabwe National Army's only regular infantry unit in the Bulawayo area during the first months of 1981 was the 1st Battalion of the Rhodesian African Rifles (RAR), a regiment of mostly white-officered black troops led by Lieutenant-Colonel Mick McKenna and based at Methuen Barracks on the outskirts of Bulawayo. This had been officially redesignated the 11th Infantry Battalion of the new National Army, but few reforms had taken place so far and in practice the regiment remained almost entirely as before, right down to the old Rhodesian uniforms and insignia. At the end of January 1981, McKenna had about 500 men (including officers), and a troop of four Eland 90 armoured cars, formerly of the Rhodesian Armoured Corps, under Sergeant Stephen \"Skippy\" Devine, an Australian veteran of the Rhodesian Light Infantry.\n\nAmid the rising tensions in Zimbabwe, Shute and McKenna identified Entumbane, the township on the western outskirts of Bulawayo where the November 1980 clashes had started, as a likely flashpoint. There ZANLA and ZIPRA had camps directly next to each other, each with about 1,500 guerrillas. In late January 1981, McKenna set up an operational headquarters in a beer hall overlooking the two guerrilla camps; this building, surrounded by six-foot walls, was dubbed \"the Alamo\" at the suggestion of Lieutenant F W \"Chomps\" Fleetwood, an American officer in A Company, 1RAR. Worried that a new Entumbane clash would prompt the ZIPRA forces at Gwaai River Mine and Essexvale to join the fray, McKenna set up a string of observation posts on each of the roads leading towards Bulawayo.\n\nOn 8 February, ZANLA cadres at Connemara Barracks in Gwelo surprised their ZIPRA counterparts, killed over 60 of them and forced the rest to flee into the bush. When the ZIPRA portion of the 13th Infantry Battalion, based at Glenville Camp near Entumbane, learned of this later in the day, it waited until its instructors from the British Army left in the evening, then attacked its ZANLA comrades, killing 12 of them and scattering the rest. Charged with restoring order, McKenna sent Devine's armoured cars and D Company, 1RAR, commanded by the American Lieutenant Dave Hill, to Glenville. Arriving late in the evening, the Elands drove into the camp and flattened the ZIPRA tents, killing many of the occupants and clearing the way for Hill's troops. Taken totally by surprise, the ZIPRA troops put up little resistance; 40 were killed and many more captured, including two officers, Captains Mpofu and Dlamini. On the morning of 9 February, the British instructors were bewildered to find the ZANLA half of their unit gone, and the remaining ZIPRA men squatting in rows in 1RAR captivity. \"What happened?\" asked the British sergeant. \"I am afraid that while you were away, your battalion fell apart,\" replied McKenna.\n\nZIPRA personnel in Bulawayo used civilian vehicles to smuggle weapons and equipment, including mortars, into their Entumbane camp over the next few days. C Company, 1RAR, comprising 96 men under Major Lionel Dyck (including a detachment from Support Company) and eight armoured vehicles, noticed this while they were garrisoning the Alamo on 11 February. The major reported to Brigade headquarters that the number of ZIPRA troops at Entumbane appeared to have swelled considerably, and that the chain link fence surrounding the camp had been taken down. Superiors ordered him not to intervene. Anticipating an imminent attack, Dyck used a silenced rifle to shoot out the floodlights surrounding the Alamo, lined up his vehicles against the surrounding walls so his men could stand on them while defending, and ranged mortars on a variety of targets in the ZIPRA complex.\n\nSoon after fighting broke out between ZANLA and ZIPRA members of a recently integrated Zimbabwe National Army battalion at Ntabazinduna, just north-east of Bulawayo, the two guerrilla camps at Entumbane began exchanging rifle, machine gun and mortar fire at about 20:00 (CAT) on 11 February. Dyck, at the Alamo, reported that both sides were also attacking his position. He radioed Brigade HQ for instructions and was told to pull out; he replied that this was impossible as he was surrounded. At Shute's orders, McKenna mobilised the rest of the battalion at an airfield near Brady Barracks within an hour. Meanwhile, a detachment of ZIPRA armoured vehicles left Essexvale for Bulawayo, and was spotted on the road by one of McKenna's observation posts. Devine was sent with his Elands to intercept them, supported by 12 1RAR men under Major Tony Husher. At an intersection on the outskirts of the city, Devine encountered a ZIPRA BTR-152 APC and impacted it with a single high-explosive anti-tank (HEAT) round, killing all 20 combatants inside. McKenna then told Devine to advance to the city limits, where he and Husher set up an ambush on the road. Husher's men shot out all nearby overhead street lights, and some of them went to scout ahead; Devine positioned two of his Elands on each of the two lanes of the road under cover of darkness.\n\nMeanwhile, at Entumbane, the ZIPRA fighters overran the ZANLA camp, killing many and forcing the rest to flee. Sporadic fighting between ZANLA and ZIPRA guerrillas spread into Bulawayo itself, continuing through the night and into the morning. About 700 ZIPRA combatants continued to attack C Company's position at the Alamo, putting it under constant machine gun and mortar fire. Pocketed, Dyck responded in kind. About 02:00 (CAT) on 12 February, a ZIPRA guerrilla with an RPD machine gun took up a position in a house to the Alamo's south-east and \"became a nuisance\", as the major put it; he and Sergeant Vini Hlatshwayo went out with an RPG-7 rocket launcher and fired at the corner of the house, bringing it down on the gunner and killing him.\n\nOn the road, two ZIPRA BTR-152s from Essexvale advanced towards Bulawayo, firing indiscriminately in all directions, and were spotted by Devine around 01:30 (CAT). The Elands waited in the darkness until the ZIPRA vehicles were about away, then fired. Both APCs were directly hit and most of the men inside killed; the survivors ran off into the night. Fleetwood then arrived at the head of a 1RAR platoon to support Devine and Husher. Around the same time, men of A Company, 1RAR captured a ZIPRA commander who was trying to enter Bulawayo through a back road in a Peugeot station wagon, and 3 Platoon, A Company captured six ZIPRA officers driving into town on the Essexvale Road in a Toyota Land Cruiser. McKenna ordered Hill and D Company to help Dyck by taking up a position between the city and Entumbane. A group of ZIPRA unsuccessfully attacked D Company as it moved west to high ground at Lurkers' Ridge, just south-east of the Alamo. B Company, meanwhile, took up positions on the railway line just north-east of Lurkers' Ridge. McKenna told Dyck over the radio that reinforcements would come and to \"hang in there\".\n\nBy about 05:00 (CAT), Dyck's ammunition supplies were running low, and the ZIPRA attackers had hit the Alamo a number of times with RPG fire. Nobody inside was killed by these rockets, but when Dyck's dog was wounded, the major flew into a rage and ordered his men to pour more aggressive machine gun fire on the advancing ZIPRA combatants. He requested air support from Brigade HQ in the form of a Lynx light bomber. The air force turned down the request, but Flight Lieutenant Colin James took off anyway in his Lynx armed with an FN MAG machine gun and SNEB rockets. The ZIPRA cadres concentrated a huge amount of fire on James' aircraft, and hit it several times, but failed to shoot it down; the pilot put in a number of ground attacks before returning to base. He reported afterwards that a bullet had entered through the floor of his cockpit and hit his helmet. The 1RAR officers and men expressed great admiration for James's bravery during this air strike, but his air force superiors were furious that he had gone into the operational area against orders.\n\nA National Army relief column including the detachments under Husher, Fleetwood and Devine assembled at Lurkers' Ridge during the morning of 12 February. Under the command of Captain Tony Clark, it flanked through the townships south of the Alamo, engaging ZIPRA guerrillas along the way, then turned north to relieve Dyck. The Elands led the way, with Devine himself standing upright in the turret of one of them with a machine gun. At one point this was shot out of his hands, prompting him to briefly stop the advance so he could jump down into the street to collect it. By the time the relief column reached the Alamo at 13:00 (CAT), C Company had been pocketed for 16 hours. Four wounded 1RAR soldiers were evacuated, and Dyck left the building to point out targets for Devine's armoured cars. During the afternoon, A Company relieved D Company at Lurker's Ridge, and the ZANLA and ZIPRA guerrillas withdrew into the townships and the surrounding country, sporadically exchanging fire. Devine was sent to Essexvale to engage the rest of ZIPRA's armoured battle group, which surrendered when he arrived; the T-34 tanks were later found by the Zimbabwe National Army to be nonfunctional. By the evening of 12 February, the rebellion was over.\n\nHundreds of people died in the uprising. The official count released at the time was 260, but historians place the number higher; Martin Meredith records \"more than 300\" dead, while Alexandre Binda writes that the Zimbabwe National Army units alone killed over 400 guerrillas. The Zimbabwe National Army reported no fatal casualties. Hill and Husher were each awarded the Bronze Cross of Zimbabwe for their part in putting down the rebellion, while Dyck received the Silver Cross. In his history of the Rhodesian African Rifles, Binda describes Entumbane as the regiment's greatest victory, commenting that it was won \"by dint of professionalism, discipline and determination\" in the face of forces that were far larger numerically. Major Michael P Stewart of the United States Army writes that 1RAR's actions at Entumbane \"saved Mugabe's Government from certain civil war\", and provided the \"final blow to the military might of ZIPRA\". A number of analysts comment on the irony that Mugabe and ZANU–PF, who had spent years fighting white rule and the Rhodesian forces during the 1970s, were secured in power barely a year after the Bush War's end by ex-Rhodesian troops under white command. Binda furthermore highlights the irony that the RAR's finest hour (in his view) came while fighting for Mugabe.\nMugabe said that undisciplined ZIPRA guerrillas had instigated the uprising; he called them \"disloyal, misguided and politically motivated armed hooligans and political malcontents\" and said that according to information before him their ultimate goal had been to topple his government. He told parliament that there had been a \"definite organised pattern\" amid the ZIPRA groups that had rebelled. Local ZIPRA commanders claimed ZANLA had started the fighting, while Nkomo and the mayor of Bulawayo blamed Nkala's inflammatory speech and similar statements from other ZANU–PF politicians. A month after the uprising, ZANU–PF set up a commission tasked with investigating the \"mutinous disturbances\" at Entumbane and in the integrated battalions at Ntabazinduna, Glenville and Connemara. This body reported to Mugabe in June 1981, but its findings have never been made public. According to the historian Norma Kriger, it blamed both ZANU–PF and ZAPU and therefore \"fell short of Government expectations\".\n\nAbiodun Alao of King's College London marks the Entumbane episode as the start of the Zimbabwe National Army's politicisation. The ex-Rhodesians' enthusiasm and success during the battle, coupled with Mugabe's readiness to deploy them, convinced many in ZAPU that ZANU–PF and the white community had united against them, and intensified ZAPU opposition to the government. ZIPRA guerrillas deserted from the assembly points and the National Army \"en masse\" following the rebellion's failure, fearing for their safety. Mugabe's sense of resolve regarding his political rivals was greatly strengthened, meanwhile; Entumbane satisfied him that white army officers and airmen could be counted on in future conflicts with ZAPU. The Entumbane engagement was the RAR's last—its companies were allocated to other 1 Brigade units later in 1981 during the military reform process—but a number of its white officers subsequently led units of the Zimbabwean special forces during the 1980s. Dyck, for example, headed the 1st Parachute Battalion.\n\nThe Mugabe administration promptly decided to reduce the future army's size by about 30,000 and to disarm and demobilise all ZANLA and ZIPRA personnel who had not yet been integrated, thereby breaking the promise of a place in the army for every guerrilla. After ZIPRA commander Dumiso Dabengwa refused to give the disarming order at Entumbane, Nkomo oversaw a parade of the camp and gave the command to disarm himself, doing so \"for the sake of peace\", in Kriger's words, despite his own opposition to the idea. Mugabe publicly announced his deal with North Korea in August 1981, and 106 North Korean instructors arrived the same month. Nkomo accused the Prime Minister of creating \"a special partisan army divorced from the national army\" for the \"possible imposition of a one-party state\". In February 1982, Mugabe announced that huge arms caches had been discovered on ZAPU-owned properties and that this was evidence of a planned ZAPU coup. He likened Nkomo's presence in the government to \"a cobra in the house\" and promptly fired him, concurrently arresting ZIPRA leaders and seizing ZAPU property.\n\nThe new North Korean-trained unit, dubbed 5 Brigade, passed out in December 1982, and was deployed by Mugabe to Matabeleland, where it remained for the next five years. In what became known as \"Gukurahundi\", it perpetrated a number of brutal massacres and atrocities against civilians in Matabeleland accused of supporting \"dissidents\", far exceeding anything that had occurred during the Bush War. Estimates for the number of deaths range from 10,000 to 30,000. The campaign officially ended in December 1987 when Mugabe and Nkomo signed a unity accord merging ZAPU into ZANU–PF with the stated goal of a one-party state.\n\n"}
{"id": "22037665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22037665", "title": "1988 Brussels summit", "text": "1988 Brussels summit\n\nThe 1988 Brussels summit was the 8th NATO summit bringing the leaders of member nations together at the same time. The formal sessions and informal meetings in Brussels, Belgium took place on 2–3 March 1988.\n\nIn this period, the organization faced unresolved questions concerned whether a new generation of leaders would be as committed to NATO as their predecessors had been. Generational change in the leadership of the Soviet Union brought Mikhail Gorbachev to the international stage; but NATO leaders were increasingly uneasy about how to respond to his personable qualities. British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher counseled that it was probably a good idea to \"do business\" with him, but other NATO leaders were uncertain about what Gorbachev's openness might be hiding. These fears were minimized by the Soviet announcement that troops were going to be withdrawn from Afghanistan. The unilateral withdraw of 500,000 troops and 10,000 tanks from Eastern Europe sent an unmistakable message of change.\n\nThe general discussions focused on the need for a reaffirmation of the purpose and principles of the Alliance. Other informal meetings explored what NATO's posture should be in its objectives for East-West relations.\n\nThe summit's work was directed towards adoption of a blueprint for strengthening stability in the whole of Europe through conventional arms control negotiations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49720646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49720646", "title": "2016 Lagos building collapse", "text": "2016 Lagos building collapse\n\nOn 8 March 2016, a five-story building collapsed while under construction in Lekki District, Lagos, Nigeria. At least 34 people were killed. Thirteen other people were pulled from the collapsed building alive in a rescue operation that ended late on 10 March.\n\nIbrahim Farinloye, from the National Emergency Management Agency of Nigeria, said in a statement that \"Investigation on the cause of the collapse has started by various federal and state agencies\". The Lagos state government said in a statement that preliminary reports suggest the building construction was illegal, with the builders having been served a contravention notice for exceeding the number of allowed floors. The owners of the building apparently “criminally unsealed the property and continued building beyond the approved floors.” Heavy rain had occurred in the area as well, with some pointing to that as an exacerbating factor.\n\nVictor Suru, a bricklayer working on the building, stated that \"After they (the owners) finished building the house, rain fell and the house shifted a bit. They put iron in front of the house, (but) the iron couldn't hold the house. They left it like that and continued building.\"\n"}
{"id": "58500971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58500971", "title": "2019 Davis Cup", "text": "2019 Davis Cup\n\nThe 2019 Davis Cup will be the 108th edition of the Davis Cup, a tournament between national teams in men's tennis. It is sponsored by BNP Paribas.\n\nFor this edition, the format of the cup will be changed. The main modification is the World Group taking place at one location and in one week, with eighteen teams divided in six round-robin groups of three teams each, with the winners of the groups and the two best second places advancing to quarterfinals. The series between the teams in this stage will feature two singles matches and one doubles match, instead of the best-of-5 series, with the matches changing from best of 5 sets to best of 3. As the World Group will now take place as one single tournament, this event has been named as the Davis Cup Finals. The lower zone groups I and II will be composed of single ties deciding promotion or relegation.\n\n\"Date: 18–24 November 2019\"<br> \n\"Venue: Caja Mágica in Madrid, Spain\" \nThe finals will be played on hard court.\n\n18 nations will take part in the Finals, formerly known as World Group. The qualification is as following:\n\nFormat\n\"Date: 1–2 February 2019\"\n\nTwenty-four teams will play for twelve spots in the Finals, in series decided on a home and away basis.\n\nThese twenty-four teams are:\n\n\"#: Ranking as of 29 October 2018. \nSeeded teams\n\nUnseeded teams\n\n\n\"Date: September 2019\"\n\nParticipating nations:\nParticipating nations:\n\nParticipating nations:\n\n\"Date: September 2019\"\n\nParticipating nations:\nParticipating nations:\n\nParticipating nations:\n\nParticipating nations:\n\n\"Date: September 2019\"\n\nParticipating nations:\nParticipating nations:\n\nParticipating nations:\nParticipating nations:\n\n"}
{"id": "77971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77971", "title": "462 BC", "text": "462 BC\n\nYear 462 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Tricipitinus and Cicurinus (or, less frequently, year 292 \"Ab urbe condita\"). The denomination 462 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n"}
{"id": "51359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51359", "title": "500 BC", "text": "500 BC\n\nThe year 500 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Camerinus and Longus (or, less frequently, year 254 \" Ab urbe condita\"). The denomination 500 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40923651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40923651", "title": "AlcoSense", "text": "AlcoSense\n\nAlcoSense is both a company and brand name for alcohol breathalysers.\n\nThe company was founded in the UK in 2007 and manufactures and distributes breathalysers for consumers and businesses. It is part of Now Group UK Ltd, which is owned and operated by racing driver and entrepreneur Hunter Abbott.\n\nAlcoSense has won multiple awards for its products and its efforts to improve road safety in the UK. Among these are Brake's Road Safety Awards, \"What Car?\" Magazine's Best breathalyser recommendations, Auto Express Best Buy and Recommended Awards and the 2011 \"Sunday Times\" Top 100 Tech List.\n\nIn June 2014, AlcoSense founder Hunter Abbott was awarded the Brake's Kevin Storey Award for Outstanding Commitment to Road Safety.\n\nIn March 2016 the AlcoSense Pro and AlcoSense Ultra were awarded the prestigious Red Dot Design award, an international distinction for excellent product design. In the Same year the AlcoSense Excel was awarded Auto Express Best Buy Award and the AlcoSense Pro was awarded Auto Express Recommended Awards.\n\nThe AlcoSense Excel won the 2018 German Design Awards for excellent product design in the Medical, Rehabilitation and Health Care category.\n\nAlcoSense consumer products include a range of reusable battery operated breathalysers and a single-use disposable breathalyser, launched in 2012.\n\nIn July 2012 it became a legal requirement in France to carry a breathalyser in all vehicles. AlcoSense launched a disposable breathalyser specifically for use in France: the AlcoSense Singles NF, certified to meet all French specifications.\n\nIn 2015 AlcoSense launched the AlcoSense Pro and in 2016 the AlcoSense Ultra and Excel. Both use fuel cell sensors. The AlcoSense Ultra uses the same fuel-cell sensor as several police breathalysers, the Pro and Excel use a smaller version of the same sensor. They contain a number of unique new features that advise the user if they are blowing correctly, provided an estimated time until sober, and they can work with any drink-drive limit anywhere in the world. By selecting a country from a pre-loaded list, the unit will automatically set itself up to the local drink-drive limit.\n\nAlcoSense is a trademark of Now Group UK Ltd, owned and operated by the racing driver and entrepreneur, Hunter Abbott.\n\nAlcoSense has won several awards and recommendations for its products.\n\n\nAlcoSense products have also been endorsed by former Formula One racing driver Stirling Moss.\n\nIn June 2014 AlcoSense was selected as the Official Alcohol Testing Partner for the Dunlop MSA British Touring Car Championship. The BTCC is the first major racing series to introduce mandatory testing for drivers and senior officials.\n\nAlcoSense has working partnerships with a number of automotive institutions, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "5384870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5384870", "title": "Arena di Verona Festival", "text": "Arena di Verona Festival\n\nThe Arena di Verona Festival (Verona Arena Festival) is a summer festival of opera, located in the city of Verona Italy. Since 1936, it has been organized under the auspices of an official body, first the \"Ente Autonomo Spettacoli Lirici Arena di Verona\", (the autonomous organization for lyrical productions of the Arena di Verona), and then, following legislation in 1996 and 1998, the Ente Lirico Arena di Verona was transformed into a private foundation, the present-day \"Arena di Verona Foundation\"\n\nOpera performances are given in Arena di Verona, an ancient Roman amphitheatre, which was capable of holding 30,000 spectators. Performances traditionally begin at dusk and spectators on the stone seats of the arena bring small candles (the \"mocoleto\") which are lit as darkness falls and the performances begin.\n\nThe first operas were performed in 1913 in celebration of the centenary of the birth of Giuseppe Verdi and were produced by the tenor Giovanni Zenatello and the theatre impresario Ottone Rovato. Their staging of \"Aida\" in the biggest open-air lyrical theatre in the world began a long tradition. In the following year Zenatello and others returned and, in the years before 1936, a variety of organizations took over the presentations. These included the \"Lyrica Italica Ars\" from 1919 to 1920, the \"Casa Musicale Sonzogno\" of Milan from 1921 to 1922, and the impresario Gino Bertolaso from 1923 to 1926, while, in 1934 another organization, the \"Ente Comunale degli Spettacoli\" (the municipal performance association) took over the summer festival. Finally, in 1936, a permanent organization was created.\n\nMany singers made their names and careers by performing at Verona. In 1929 Beniamino Gigli thrilled audiences with his appearances in Flotow's \"Martha\". Between 1947 and 1954 Maria Callas was a regular after creating a sensation in Ponchielli's \"La Gioconda\".\n\nIn addition to singers, directors and designers added distinguishing elements to productions such as the 1953 water pool created for \"Aida\" by silent cinema director Georg Wilhelm Pabst. His aim was to conjure up the image of the Nile on which little Egyptian boats could sail, and the idea was adapted by Pier Luigi Pizzi again in \"Aida\" in 1999. Also, it was Pabst who was responsible for the introduction of a great number of animals on stage, including elephants, horses and dromedaries, and this form of spectacle has become a prominent feature of many opera productions in Verona.\n\nDance and classic concert performances have also been given in the Arena. Classical ballets and traditional dances from all over the world have been seen. In 1976, Maurice Béjart brought the \"Ballet du XXe Siècle\" from the La Monnaie opera house in Brussels and choreographed Beethoven's 9th symphony. This première was interrupted by rain, but the performance continued to a cassette tape of the music and without the orchestra.\n\nSince 1976 the organization has expanded its artistic activities from October to May in the rebuilt \"Teatro Filarmonico\", a theatre which had been destroyed in World War II. With this new addition, the organization could accumulate a permanent collection of artists (the orchestra, the choir and the corps de ballet) and technicians who represent the productions that are staged in Verona and transported nationally and internationally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12680498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12680498", "title": "Boston Early Music Festival", "text": "Boston Early Music Festival\n\nThe Boston Early Music Festival (BEMF) is a non-profit organization founded in 1980 in Boston, Massachusetts, U.S. to promote historical music performance. It presents an annual concert series in Boston and New York City, produces opera recordings, and organizes a weeklong Festival and Exhibition every two years in Boston. A centerpiece of these festivals has been a fully staged Baroque opera production.\n\nOne of BEMF’s main goals is to unearth lesser-known Baroque operas, which are then performed by the world’s leading musicians armed with the latest information on period singing, orchestral performance, costuming, dance, and staging at each biennial Festival. BEMF operas are led by the BEMF Artistic Directors Paul O’Dette and Stephen Stubbs, BEMF Orchestra Director Robert Mealy, and BEMF Opera Director Gilbert Blin. In 2008, BEMF introduced its Chamber Opera Series as part of its annual concert season. The series presents semi-staged productions of chamber operas composed during the Baroque period. In 2011, BEMF took its chamber production of Handel’s \"Acis and Galatea\" on a four-city North-American tour. In 2004, BEMF initiated a project to record some of its work in the field of Baroque opera on the CPO recording label. The series has since earned five Grammy Award nominations, including a 2015 Grammy Award for Best Opera Recording.\n\nAt each Festival, concerts are presented every day from morning until late at night. Concerts are given by an array of established luminaries and rising stars in the field of early music worldwide. BEMF concerts also allow for unique, once-in-a-lifetime collaborations and programs by the spectacular array of talent assembled for the Festival week's events. In addition, there are many scheduled \"Fringe\" concerts and events, presented both by local and out-of-town groups at a number of venues in Boston and Cambridge. The Exhibition at the Festival is the largest event of its kind in the United States, showcasing over one hundred early instrument makers, music publishers, service organizations, schools and universities, and associated colleagues.\n\nIn 1989, BEMF established an annual concert series to meet the increasing demand for year-round performances of early music. BEMF then expanded its concert series in 2006, when it began presenting performances to New York City at The Morgan Library & Museum. BEMF's annual season now sets the bar nationally for early music performance and has featured such musicians as The Tallis Scholars, Jordi Savall and Hespèrion XXI, and Les Arts Florissants, as well as the North American débuts of Stile Antico, Bach Collegium Japan, Netherlands Bach Society, and Akademie für Alte Musik Berlin.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "42226514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42226514", "title": "Burnt Oranges, Florida", "text": "Burnt Oranges, Florida\n\nBurning Man has spawned non profit organizations world wide and Burnt Oranges is the first to host events in Florida. There are two events each year, held at Maddox Ranch in Lakeland, Florida. The spring event is called 'Preheat' and the fall event \"Afterburn'.\n\nThe 10 principles of Burning Man are explicitly followed and the event are always sold out. As with BM all income is used to support art and charity. Each event is limited to 990 people. Theme camps and mutant vehicles are intended to give participants the flavor of the much larger and original Burning Man event in the Black Rock Desert, Nevada.\n\n"}
{"id": "758337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=758337", "title": "Carol Lin", "text": "Carol Lin\n\nCarol Lin is an American journalist, best known as the first television news anchor to break the news to a worldwide audience of the terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, reporting for CNN. Lin previously worked for ABC News, contributes reports to NPR, is the founder of CarolLinReporting.com, and currently does strategic communication for the Los Angeles County Chief Executive Office.\n\nBefore joining CNN, Lin was with ABC News where she served as a national correspondent and substitute anchor for \"Good Morning America\" and also reported for \"World News Tonight with Peter Jennings\".\n\nWhile with ABC News, Lin provided national reports on The Freeman Standoff in Montana, The UniBomber arrest, the North Dakota Floods, and the Jon Benet murder case, among other stories. Before joining ABC News, Lin served as a weekend news anchor for KTTV in Los Angeles where she worked in the Special Undercover Investigations Unit. She started her reporting career at the Washington, D.C., bureau of CONUS Communications where she covered the Reagan presidency.\n\nFrom 1998 – December 30, 2006, Lin served as a news anchor and correspondent for CNN and was based in the network's worldwide headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia. During her tenure at CNN, Lin anchored several news programs, including \"CNN Early Edition\", \"CNN Live at Daybreak\", the weekend editions of \"CNN Newsroom\", and the former news-magazine program \"CNN NewsStand\". She traveled the globe to report on numerous breaking news stories for CNN, including the rebuilding of Kosovo, the shootings at Columbine High School, the fall of the Taliban in Afghanistan in 2001, and live from New York City's Times Square as part of CNN's worldwide Millennium night coverage.\n\nAdditionally, Lin traveled to Jerusalem during the siege of Bethlehem to cover tensions between Israel and the Palestinian territories, and to Salt Lake City in 2002 to cover the Winter Olympics. Later that year she anchored the news coverage of the rescue of nine miners in Somerset, PA who were trapped for 77 hours.\n\nEarlier, Lin played an integral role in CNN's Election 2000 coverage, anchoring live from the New Hampshire Primary, and from the Democratic Convention from the Staples Center in Los Angeles. Lin also interviewed many of the key players during the Florida vote recount, including Florida Gov. Jeb Bush.\n\nHowever, of all the news stories Lin reported on and anchored, she is best remembered as the first television anchor to break the news of the terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 to a worldwide audience. It was three minutes after those attacks began in New York that CNN interrupted a Ditech TV commercial at 8:49 a.m. EST with a live picture of the World Trade Center's north tower on fire and Lin reporting from CNN Center in Atlanta:\n\nYeah. This just in. You are looking at obviously a very disturbing live shot there. That is the World Trade Center, and we have unconfirmed reports this morning that a plane has crashed into one of the towers of the World Trade Center. CNN Center right now is just beginning to work on this story, obviously calling our sources and trying to figure out exactly what happened, but clearly something relatively devastating happening this morning there on the south end of the island of Manhattan. That is once again, a picture of one of the towers of the World Trade Center.\n\nLess than two months after Lin reported the news of the September 11 attacks, she was once again traveling the globe to bring world news to CNN viewers, this time from Pakistan, reporting on numerous topics, including Afghan refugees in that country.\n\nLin is the founder of CarolLinReporting.com, a website which provides cancer patients, their families, and caregivers with answers they may not find on traditional networks. The site launched on October 1, 2007, and is part of a yet to be announced larger project that will allow Lin to combine journalism with an operating system to enable cancer patients and their families to find immediate solutions to the most pressing problems in their daily lives. U.S. News & World Report reported that Lin, \"has moved quickly to combine politics and news to create a model to provide cancer answers while also pushing for greater spending for cures.\n\nIn 2012, Lin joined the Los Angeles County Probation Department as a spokesperson. In 2015, she moved to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department to direct their strategic communications unit. In 2018, due to a change in administration, she took a position with the Los Angeles County chief executive office.\n\nLin's solid journalism had been praised by numerous media critics, including CBS Marketwatch's Jon Friedman, who cited how she handled the news of the death of her former ABC News colleague Peter Jennings. Friedman first noted \"CNN distinguished itself by sticking to the story and giving a balanced picture of Jennings' career -- thanks in large part to Lin's composure,\" and went on to write that Lin \"was steady, thoughtful and, most of all, reliable -- the essential quality for any journalist working under pressure.\"\n\nLin has been honored with numerous awards for her work, including three Los Angeles Press Club Awards. Lin was also the first recipient of the National IMAGE Award by the Organization of Chinese Americans.\n\nLin was born to parents Hsi Chuan Chen and Po Chen Lin.\n\nLin earned a bachelor's degree in political science from UCLA. Lin was a roommate with actress Heather Locklear at UCLA, mentioned by Locklear while a guest on \"Larry King Live\" in 1999.\n\nLin's husband, William \"Will\" Robinson, an eight-time Emmy Award winning news producer, died of cancer in 2003. Lin and Robinson had one child. In February 2009, Lin married Mike Dowling, then UCLA Assistant Athletic Director of Operations.\n\n"}
{"id": "5480591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5480591", "title": "Celtic Colours", "text": "Celtic Colours\n\nCeltic Colours International Festival is a Celtic music festival held annually in October in communities all over Cape Breton Island in Nova Scotia, Canada. First held in 1997, the festival has featured hundreds of musicians from all over the Celtic world and attracted tens of thousands of visitors to Cape Breton Island. For nine days in October, Cape Breton Island is home to a unique celebration of music and culture as the Celtic Colours International Festival presents dozens of concerts all over the island, an extensive line-up of workshops, a visual art series of exhibitions, and a nightly Festival Club. Over the years, artists have traveled from Scotland, Ireland, Wales, England, Brittany, Spain, Denmark, Germany, Norway, Cuba and Sweden as well as from across the United States and Canada.\n\nIn many of these communities, the local fire hall, parish hall or community centre has hosted musical events for generations, in some cases, literally moving the fire trucks out of the hall to accommodate a dance. Venues for Celtic Colours vary from an 18th-century reconstructed French Chapel to new performance facilities to community halls.\n\nCeltic Colours International Festival has an ambitious schedule (as many as six concerts each day).\n\nCeltic music has seen a resurgence of interest in North America during recent years. Fueled in part by the success and popularity of entertainers like Natalie MacMaster, Buddy MacMaster, the Barra MacNeils, Ashley MacIsaac, the Rankin Family and Rita MacNeil, this interest has focused attention on Cape Breton Island, its music, its people and its culture. Workshops, offered in many aspects of Celtic and Gaelic culture, allow visitors and residents alike to get the hands-on experience they desire. Host communities around the island present workshops in Gaelic language and song, components of tradition, instrument instruction and traditional dance, as well as offering cultural tours, ceilidhs and a lecture series. They also organize an extensive array of community events including meals and dances.\n\nOne of the most popular features of the Celtic Colours International Festival every year is the Festival Club. Located at the Gaelic College in St. Ann's, the Festival Club opens as the evening concerts are closing, offering an opportunity for Festival artists to perform in a more informal setting, or to get a session in with friends and colleagues from near and far. Performance is by invitation only and depends upon artist availability on any given night.\n"}
{"id": "1426183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1426183", "title": "Control freak", "text": "Control freak\n\nIn psychology-related slang, the term control freak describes an individual who attempts to undermine other people based on how one dictates how everything is done around them. The phrase was first used in the 1970s, an era when stress was laid on the principle of 'doing one's own thing' and letting others do the same.\n\nIn the study of personality psychology, certain personality disorders display characteristics involving the need to gain compliance or control over others: \n\nControl freaks are often perfectionists defending themselves against their own inner vulnerabilities in the belief that if they are not in total control they risk exposing themselves once more to childhood angst. Such persons manipulate and pressure others to change so as to avoid having to change themselves, and use power over others to escape an inner emptiness. When a control freak's pattern is broken, the controller is left with a terrible feeling of powerlessness but feeling their pain and fear brings them back to themselves.\n\nControl freaks appear to have some similarities to codependents, in the sense that the latters' fear of abandonment leads to attempts to control those they are dependent on. Recovery for them entails recognizing that being a control freak helped paradoxically preserve codependency itself.\n\nIn terms of personality-type theory, control freaks are very much the Type A personality, driven by the need to dominate and control. An obsessive need to control others is also associated with antisocial personality disorder.\n\nIn the corporate world, control freaks tend to publicly admonish their inferiors, especially during meetings. More positively, the term can also refer to someone with a limited number of things that they want done a specific way; professor of clinical psychology Les Parrott wrote that “Control Freaks are people who care more than you do about something and won't stop at being pushy to get their way”. There may be a fine line between being a detail-oriented manager, who likes to have things done 'right', and being a (destructive) control freak. Control freaks are usually a cause of micromanagement.\n\nIn some cases, the control freak sees their constant intervention as beneficial or even necessary. This can be caused by feelings of separation or departure from a loved one; or by the belief that others are incapable of handling matters properly, or the fear that things will go wrong if they do not attend to every detail. In other cases, they may simply enjoy the feeling of power it gives them so much that they automatically try to gain control of everything and everyone around them.\n\nWellington as military commander was undoubtedly a hands-on micromanager, trusting his subordinates as little as possible, and showing many of the characteristics of the modern day control freak. In 1811 he wrote that “I am obliged to be everywhere and if absent from any operation, something goes wrong … success can only be attained by attention to the most minute details”.\n\nBy contrast, Napoleon gave his marshals much more tactical freedom. At the critical meeting of the two generals at the Battle of Waterloo — where Wellington's close supervision contrasted strongly with the effective delegation of operational management by Napoleon to Marshall Ney — it was at least arguably Wellington's control mania that played the decisive role in the Allied victory, justifying his claim the following day that “I don't think it would have been done if I had not been there”.\n\nA series of three documentary programs on BBC2 in the UK in January 2013 called \"Queen Victoria's Children\" argued that Queen Victoria was a pathological control freak by the way she controlled the welfare of all her children.\n\nSteve Jobs was a perfectionist who favored the closed system of control over all aspects of a product from start to finish — what he termed the integrated over the fragmented approach. As Steve Wozniak, his long-term collaborator and occasional critic, put it: \"Apple gets you into their playpen and keeps you there. The triumph of the Windows PC over the Mac was a blow for that philosophy, a situation that was then reversed by the successes of the iPod, iPhone, and iPad – only for the Android challenge to reopen the debate.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "45450235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45450235", "title": "Critter Crunch (Robotics Competition)", "text": "Critter Crunch (Robotics Competition)\n\nThe \"Critter Crunch\" is a table top combat robot competition that takes place annually at the\nMileHiCon science fiction convention. Established in 1986 with the first competition held in 1987, it is widely accepted as the first combat robot competition.\n\nThe competition was proposed by the Denver Mad Scientists club and organized by member Bill Llewellin.\nIn the months before the 1987 convention the club produced a set of rules which were distributed without copyright restriction, allowing other organizations use or extend them for their own competitions.\n\nThe first competition was held on a hotel table. The original rules prohibited damaging the surface. There were several competitors including a remote control dune buggy, a mechanical device under a steel mixing bowl, and a little yellow remote control corvette that could only go forward or backwards and turn. The first competition was won by the corvette.\n\nThe last revision to the official rules was on 15 Feb 2003. By then the rules had evolved to include mention of radio controls, attacking control systems, limiting the number of operators to one, and codifying two part critters loss conditions\n"}
{"id": "54283978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54283978", "title": "Destruction (2017)", "text": "Destruction (2017)\n\nDestruction is a professional wrestling event promoted by New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW) annually since 2007. In 2017, NJPW produced three events under the Destruction name; Destruction in Fukushima on September 10, Destruction in Hiroshima on September 16, and Destruction in Kobe on September 24. These were events fifteen to seventeen under the Destruction name.\n\n2017 was the second consecutive year in which NJPW held three events under the Destruction name. From 2007 to 2013, NJPW held one Destruction event per year, expanding to two shows in 2014 and 2015 and to three shows in 2016.\n\nThe three shows aired live through NJPW's internet streaming service, NJPW World, with English commentary provided for the Hiroshima and Kobe events.\n\nThe Destruction shows featured professional wrestling matches, each of which involved different wrestlers from pre-existing scripted feuds and storylines. Wrestlers portrayed villains, heroes, or less distinguishable characters in the scripted events that built tension and culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\nDestruction in Fukushima would be headlined by Minoru Suzuki making his third defense of the NEVER Openweight Championship against Michael Elgin. This match stemmed from the 2017 G1 Climax, where Elgin defeated Suzuki, challenging him to a title match afterwards. On September 7, Suzuki and Elgin agreed to turn the match into a lumberjack deathmatch, which was made official the following day. The show would also feature Chaos' Kazuchika Okada, Rocky Romero and Toru Yano challenging \"Los Ingobernables de Japon\"'s Bushi, Evil and Sanada for the NEVER Openweight 6-Man Tag Team Championship. The match would mark IWGP Heavyweight Champion Okada's first-ever shot at the title and also served as a prelude to Evil challenging him for the Heavyweight title on October 9 at King of Pro-Wrestling.\n\nDestruction in Hiroshima would be headlined by Hiroshi Tanahashi making his second IWGP Intercontinental Championship defense against Zack Sabre Jr. During the 2017 G1 Climax, Sabre put himself in title contention by scoring two submission wins over Tanahashi, first in their opening tournament match on July 17 and again in a non-tournament six-man tag team match on August 13. In the semi-main event, Sabre's Suzuki-gun stablemate El Desperado would challenge Kushida for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Championship in the champion's second title defense. El Desperado defeated Kushida during the 2017 Best of the Super Juniors and on June 27, after Kushida had successfully defended the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Championship against Bushi, hit him with a guitar and challenged him to a title match. While Kushida was absent from the G1 Climax tour, El Desperado made repeated challenges towards him. When the two finally met on August 12, El Desperado hit Kushida with his own title belt, which he then proceeded to steal. The show would also feature Suzuki-gun, with Taichi and Yoshinobu Kanemaru challenging Funky Future (Ricochet and Ryusuke Taguchi) for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship. In addition, the show would feature Roppongi Vice's final match together as a tag team. After unsuccessfully challenging then IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Champions The Young Bucks (Matt Jackson and Nick Jackson) for the title on July 2, Roppongi Vice agreed to disband with Rocky Romero giving Beretta his blessing to move to the heavyweight division.\nDestruction in Kobe would be headlined by Kenny Omega defending the IWGP United States Heavyweight Championship against Juice Robinson. This match also stemmed from the 2017 G1 Climax, where Robinson picked up a win over Omega, asking for a shot at his IWGP United States Heavyweight Championship in a post-match interview. With Omega having won the tournament on July 2 to become the inaugural IWGP United States Heavyweight Champion, this match would mark the first-ever defense of the title. Omega was scheduled to participate in the entire tour, but on September 6, it was announced that he had suffered a knee injury and was pulled from shows between September 7 and 22. He was replaced by the debuting Leo Tonga, the youngest brother of Tama Tonga and Tanga Loa. Several matches on the Kobe card were changed following events that took place at the Hiroshima show.\n\nIn addition to these title matches, all three shows would also feature a three-way tag team match for the IWGP Tag Team Championship with War Machine (Hanson and Raymond Rowe) taking on Killer Elite Squad (Davey Boy Smith Jr. and Lance Archer) and Guerrillas of Destiny (Tama Tonga and Tanga Loa). The first two matches would take place under regular three-way rules, while the third match would be contested under tornado tag team match rules. After successfully defending the title against Bullet Club's Cody and Hangman Page on August 13, War Machine were confronted and challenged to a title rematch by Guerrillas of Destiny. However, before they could respond, both teams were attacked by the Killer Elite Squad. This marked a return for K.E.S., who had not been seen together since the previous February, when Archer was sidelined with a lumbar disc herniation.\n\nBryan Rose of the \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\" wrote that Destruction in Fukushima was \"one of the weaker cards New Japan has put out this year, topped by a main event that was one of the worst New Japan main events in I don't know how long\". Larry Csonka of \"411Mania\" had similar sentiments, calling the show \"extremely disappointing\" and \"possibly the laziest, most lifeless show the promotion has put on all year\". He rated the main event a \"dud\", calling it \"an embarrassment\". Dave Meltzer, also of the \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\", wrote that fan response to the show had been \"very negative, by far the worst of any major show for the company this year\".\n\nThe show was better received than its predecessor. Larry Csonka of \"411Mania\" wrote that Destruction in Hiroshima \"wasn't a great show, but it was closer to the company getting back to form\" after the Fukushima show. Bryan Rose of the \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\" wrote that the Hiroshima show exceeded the Fukushima show \"pretty much in every way\".\n\nBryan Rose of the \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\" called the show \"just there\", deeming everything but the two title matches and the match between Beretta and Yujiro Takahashi \"skippable\". Rose praised the main event of the show as \"fantastic\". Larry Csonka of \"411Mania\" rated the show \"good\". While being down on the first three matches, he praised the main event as a \"must see\".\n\n"}
{"id": "20018206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20018206", "title": "First Into Nagasaki", "text": "First Into Nagasaki\n\nFirst Into Nagasaki: The Censored Eyewitness Dispatches on Post-Atomic Japan and Its Prisoners of War is a collection of reports by \"Chicago Daily News\" foreign correspondent George Weller. Originally written in 1945, but not approved for publication by Gen. Douglas MacArthur's military censors. The reports were collected and edited by the author's son Anthony Weller, and published for the first time in 2006.\n\nThe Occupation authorities declared Nagasaki (and Hiroshima) off-limits to reporters.\n\nWeller reports that he was the first outside observer to reach Nagasaki, on September 6, 1945, four weeks following the U.S. atomic bombing of the city. He spent a total of three weeks in Nagasaki and in the nearby Allied P.O.W. camps — some of which he \"opened\", and revisits the series of news reports he published at the time about his experiences.\n\nThe first dispatches by non-Japanese reporters were filed by Associated Press correspondent Vern Haugland and \"New York Times\" Lawrence who visited Nagasaki September 9, 1945. Captain Joe Snyder, press officer with MacArthur headquarters, in his book \"Para(graph) Trooper For MacArthur: From the Horse Cavalry to the USS Missouri\" 1997 Chapter 16 \"Nagasaki Inferno\" pp199–209 describes \"boarding a transport plane packed with reporters headed for Nagasaki.[for example: photographers 1. see Google image search Nagasaki Bernard Hoffman (LIFE Magazine) 2. Bettmann/CORBIS September 13, 1945 Stanley Troutman (Acme war pool) 3. Nagasaki and verso]Other officers and correspondents headed for Hiroshima about the same time, so the world would soon know more than it was prepared to digest about the horrors of the atomic bomb. ... I toured the city with the AP's Jim Hutcheson, among others. He and I had become good friends since our narrow escape on Corregidor. ... There were thousands of stories in Nagasaki and our group saw many pitiful sights of people with radiation burns who, in dreadful agony, were slowly dying. The first thing Japanese doctors asked was if American doctors had a cure for the bomb's effects on the human body. ... We received a report from GHQ that American doctors were coming to Nagasaki soon...\" Snyder acknowledges what he calls Wilfrid Burchett's \"ingenuity\" in successfully reporting from Hiroshima. Snyder does not mention George Weller or any dispatches of George Weller's from Nagasaki. Joe Snyder [1983; owner and editor of the North Missourian] and Walter Cronkite [1964; CBS] are both recipients of the Missouri School of Journalism Honor Medal.\n\nFrom the first days of the Occupation reporters were cleared to cover freeing and rescue operations on behalf of these prisoners. Weller comments: \"What the command wanted covered was the prison camps of northern Japan. The dam was to be opened to one last orgy of home town stories, more mindless and more alike than the slow molasses drippings of four years of sloppy, apolitical, dear-mom war...I did not feel that the right way to end this war was to...chew more fodder about what-beasts-the-Japs-are and Jimmy-looks-skinnier-today.\"\n\nThe U.S. military in Tokyo censored approximately 55,000 words of his dispatches, along with more than 100 photographs.\n\nHowever, Weller does not refer to governmental censorship of any photographs of his related to Nagasaki.\n\nOn January 7, 2009 the \"Telegraph\" published Nagasaki photographs dated September 5, 1945: \"After we asked readers for stories and photographs relating to Britain at War, we received these fascinating photographs of Nagasaki and Hiroshima from Cecil A. Creber, who took them less than a month [Nagasaki = September 5, 1945] after the atom bombs were dropped on both cities [August 6 and 9 1945].\" The \"Linlithgow Gazette\" November 28, 2008 \"Amazing atomic aftermath pics set for key war archives\" features a photo of Creber captioned \"Life through a lens: Cecil with his faithful Ensign box camera.\"\n\nOn February 13, 2010 \"Mainichi\" published \"New color footage of Nagasaki A-bomb devastation shows need for greater research resources\" plus a 01/05/2010 Photo Special [film circa September 11, 1945 found at the United States National Archives in Washington D.C. by Professor Burke-Gaffney].\n\nWeller writes these correspondents \"looked like yacht passengers who have stopped to buy basketry on an island.\" He writes that Colonel McCrary \"offered to take carbons of my stories and file them when airborne.\" The reporters under McCrary's leadership were not subject to censorship, making their dispatches especially valuable. Weller writes: \"I refused.\" \"How could I close up my atomic laboratory, with the work only half finished?\"...and concludes with the explanation that his refusal is because he wanted to write \"something free, big and formal...something ample, leisurely and magnificent.\" [\"First into Nagasaki\" page 19-20]\n\nHaugland of The Associated Press states: \"We offered Weller a ride back to Tokyo with us...\"[see Haugland \"infra\" p. 20] Weller describes a feeling of \"hopelessness\" about his dispatches because the Kempeitai to whom he claims to have entrusted the stories had \"returned to Nagasaki, but they had no message for me.\"[\"First into Nagasaki\" page 21] Weller, although working as a reporter for a daily publication, chose to refuse an offered opportunity either to timely send his Nagasaki dispatches uncensored from the aircraft or alternatively to confront the Occupation censorship directly by filing in Tokyo, despite writing: \"I wanted to be prepared to defend every line. If the stories were blocked as reprisal against me, I intended to take the case to MacArthur himself.\"[\"First into Nagasaki\" page 18]\n\nWeller traveled to Nagasaki from Kanoya airbase with Sergeant Gilbert Harrison. Harrison's career later included: Chairman of the American Veterans Committee; editor and publisher of \"The New Republic\" magazine; author of several books. In Harrison's memoir [\"Parts of a Past\" iUniverse June 2009 pages 81–2] he describes carrying George Weller's Nagasaki reporting from an airstrip outside Nagasaki to the \"Chicago Daily News\" in Tokyo:\nA \"Boston Globe\" article by Gerald R. Thorp of the \"Chicago Daily News\" \"TOKYO, Sept. 10(CDN) 'New Brand of Jap to Him!'\" indicates that Harrison was by September 10, 1945 accompanying correspondents in Tokyo.\n\nThe first dispatch presented in \"First into Nagasaki\" (see page 25 and photos on cover and back inside endpaper) is datelined \"Nagasaki September 6\" and reads: ...\"After a 24-hour trip on what seemed like dozens of trains, the writer arrived here this afternoon as the first visitor from the outside Allied world.\" On \"September 6\" the \"Chicago Daily News\" printed a dispatch under Weller's byline datelined \"Kanoya\", which begins:\nThe remainder of Weller's dispatch consists of a series of direct quotations from men of this medical corps with names, addresses, and photographs (these last are not from in Japan but are formal military portraits). Samples:\nAfter the September 6 dispatch from Kanoya, Weller's next dispatch was printed on September 12 with an \"Ōmuta, Kyushu\" dateline (Omuta was a prisoner of war camp approximately 100 miles by railroad from Nagasaki and twice that from Kanoya. Headlined \"New Saga of Boldness For Wermuth as Captive\" it is an account of the famous \"One-Man-Army\" Captain Arthur W. Wermuth continuing his leadership as a POW on a Hellship carrying prisoners to Japan.\n\nThe photograph in \"First into Nagasaki\" facing the \"Introduction by Anthony Weller xv\" is captioned \"George Weller (r.) with Admiral Chester Nimitz on board the U.S.S. \"Missouri\" for the treaty signing, Tokyo Bay, September 2, 1945.\" This caption is incorrect since the figure on the left of the picture is not Fleet Admiral Nimitz, the signer as United States Representative of the proceedings' documents. In all still images and moving pictures of the Japanese surrender ceremony Nimitz is seen wearing Navy cap with full \"scrambled eggs\" denoting his five-star rank. The personage in the photograph appears to be John Knight, publisher of the \"Chicago Daily News\", who was in attendance on the USS \"Missouri\" as a guest of the Secretary of the Navy.\n\nWith reference to this photograph \"supra\" presented in \"First into Nagasaki\", the Battleship Missouri Memorial at Pearl Harbor: \"can confirm that the individual pictured to the left in the photograph is not Fleet Admiral Nimitz.\" http://www.ussmissouri.org \n\nGeorge Weller was actually photographed with a prominent naval figure Hiram Cassidy[sic] by the Associated Press on March 25, 1943 AP Images ID 4303250106. The picture was taken just before Weller's letter to the Foreign Editor of the \"Chicago Daily News\" quoted in \"Weller's War\" pp355–6. At left is Commander Hiram Cassedy[correct spelling], then Captain of \"Searaven\", hero of several submarine engagements in South-west Pacific (\"Submarine Operations in World War II\" US Naval Institute Eight Printing December 1965 pages 104,193-4,233,463). At right is George Weller wearing British-type tropical uniform of shorts and knee socks. Cassedy (later Admiral) commanding \"Tigrone\" went on to lead a submarine group \"Hiram's Hecklers\" and also to hold the Pacific record for \"lifeguard\" duty (with 31 rescues; Ibid. pp 471–3).\n\nThe \"Chicago Daily News\" September 8, 1945 printed prominently two photographs credited 'Associated Press Wirephoto' showing one American foreign correspondent amidst an obliterated surrounding former city. These photographs feature in the background what has become the widely recognized symbol for the atom bombs dropped on Japan, the shell of a pre-war structure which has been preserved as it looked then. Now commonly referred to as \"A-Bomb Dome\" it is on the UNESCO World Heritage List registered as \"Hiroshima Peace Memorial.\" The CDN 1945 captions read:\n\nPhotographs of Nagasaki had already been printed September 1, 1945. Caption: \"Nagasaki Today - Japanese workers (foreground) carry away debris in a devastated area of atom-bombed Nagasaki. Smokestacks and a lone building stand in the background. This picture is from Domei, official Jap news agency.\" Transmission credit is to Associated Press Wirephoto.\n\nPhotographs published in \"First into Nagasaki\" in 2006 already had appeared in the \"Chicago Daily News\" in 1945. [emphasis added]\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" on September 16, 1945 published a front page article \"By George Weller Chicago Daily News Foreign Service Nagasaki. (Delayed) U.S. Prisoner Sees A-Bomb Rip Nagasaki.\" Substantial portions of this \"Los Angeles Times\" September 16, 1945 published article are contained in two dispatches in \"First into Nagasaki\": 1. First Dispatch September 6, 1945 2300 pages 25–7; 2. Fifth Dispatch September 8, 1945 0300 pages 35–6. Both these dispatches are part of a group of eight dispatches (pages 25–45) which are described in \"First into Nagasaki\" as never published. The \"Los Angeles Times\" page one article of September 16, 1945 with its sub-headline \"Witnesses Describe Parachutes Falling and Searing Blast\" includes Weller's interviews with Captain Farley, POWs Bridgman and King, and Dutch doctor Vink (all in Dispatch #5) and Weller's interview with the Japanese lieutenant, aide to the district's commander (Dispatch #1). The \"Los Angeles Times\" article has the following introductory paragraph: \"The following story, delayed by censorship, is an eyewitness account by an American observer of the results of the atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki and includes the stories of men on the ground who saw the bomb fall.\"\n\nThe \"Boston Evening Globe\" on September 15, 1945 published a page one article \"By George Weller Nagasaki\" with bold all caps headline \"American Saw Atom Bomb Hit Nagasaki\" using content described as \"unpublished\" [page 24 \"First into Nagasaki\"] and at the end of the article \"Continued on Page 2\" is the following: \"(Copyright, 1945, by the Boston Globe and Chicago Daily News.)\". Text from Dispatch #6 and Dispatch #1 is used (example: \"Walk in Nagasaki's streets today and you walk in ruins.\" This is the first line of Dispatch #1). Weller's interview with the Japanese lieutenant (Dispatch #1) is used in the \"Boston Evening Globe\" article as is Weller's interview with Captain Farley (Dispatch #5), and Weller's interview with Dr. Nakashima (Dispatch #8). Quoted statements by ex-POWs Bridgman and King (Dispatch #5) are in this \"Boston Evening Globe\" article, which covers both Japanese and Allied observers' eyewitness accounts of the bomb as well as Dr. Nakashima's description of the bomb's medical symptoms. The Boston article reads: \"However, about 70 percent of deaths have been from plain burns.\" (Dispatch #6). The \"New York Post\" on September 15, 1945 published an article by George Weller headlined \"U.S. Prisoners Held at Nagasaki Describe Terrors of Atom Blast\" using the same line of text as the Boston article (Dispatch #1), death statistics (Dispatch #3) and re-located position of POW camp (Dispatch #4). The New York article includes Weller's interviews with Captain Farley, Dr. Vink, Harold Bridgman, and Fred King (Dispatch #5). The article concludes with the bomb's \"peculiar 'disease'\" (Dispatch #8).\n\nThe \"Miami Herald\" on September 18, 1945 published an article \"By George Weller Miami Herald-Chicago Daily News Wire\" headlined: \"American Tells of Being Atomic Bombed\" with quote above: \"'I Hit the Ground...Building Began To Quiver'\". In this article are quotations and statistical data from Dispatch #3 \"The known dead number 20,000, Jap police tell me, and they estimate about 4,000 bodies remain to be found\" along with \"The wounded are estimated to be about twice the number of dead.\" \"Walk in Nagasaki's streets today and you walk in ruins.\" (Dispatch #1) Also, Captain Farley's eyewitness account (Dispatch #5) is quoted. The interviews with Bridgman and King (Dispatch #5) are included as well as information from Dr. Nakashima (Dispatch #8) and the interview with the Japanese lieutenant, aide to the district commander (Dispatch #1).\n\nGeorge Weller's own response \"In hours of walking through these areas I experienced no burns or signs of debilitation.\" is from Dispatch #3 (\"First into Nagasaki\" page 30) which mentions Weller's \"nausea\" not reported in the \"Miami Herald\" article of 1945.\n\nThe \"Miami Herald\" article incorrectly states atomic POW casualties \"Forty-eight were killed instantly and four others died later.\" while Dispatch #5 states \"Forty-eight were wounded, four instantly killed, and four, including Aalders, died.\" The incorrect POW casualty figures also appear in Weller's \"Los Angeles Times\" article of September 16, 1945 and his \"New York Post\" article of September 15, 1945, and his article in the \"Akron Beacon Journal\" headlined \"Yank Saw Atom Bomb Wipe Out Nagasaki\" and above that \"It Was 'Terrific, White Flash'\" September 15, 1945 (this article includes interviews \"supra\" from Dispatch#1, Dispatch#5, and Dispatch#8). The Associated Press' Vernon Haugland quotes Dr. Vink \"only four of our 200 prisoners were killed\"[outright when the bomb exploded; four more died subsequently] in article published widely, including in the \"New York Times\" and on September 10, 1945 in the \"Miami Herald\". Thus papers in New York, Boston, Los Angeles, Miami, and Akron all print Weller's incorrect casualty statistics, whilst Dispatch#5 gives correct data, as does the Associated Press in 1945.\n\nEight Dispatches (pages 25–45) are described in \"First into Nagasaki\" as written in Nagasaki September 6–9 with Weller \"sending them off to MacArthur's military censors in Tokyo, hopeful that they were being cabled onward to his editors at the \"Chicago Daily News\" and thence to a vast American readership via syndication. These dispatches have remained unpublished for sixty years; it appears that the U.S. government destroyed the originals.\"\nThe fact of publication by the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"Boston Evening Globe\", \"New York Post\", \"Miami Herald\", and \"Akron Beacon Journal\" is irreconcilable to George Weller's assertion that: \"...I sent 25,000 words by the hands of the obliging \"kempeitai\", the secret police, directly to MacArthur. ... All my dispatches were suppressed. Every one of my 25,000 words was killed by MacArthur's censorship, which went on afterward, month after month.\"[\"First into Nagasaki\" page 313]\n\nCensorship of correspondents reporting from Japan for newspapers outside Japan ended October 6, 1945, continuing only for the Japanese media.\n\nIn \"The Weller Dispatches by Anthony Weller\"[page 291 \"First into Nagasaki\"] is statement that \"...the editors cut Weller's cynical closing phrase...\" The \"Chicago Daily News\" text last line is: \"That's how Jap wardens cured decadent Americans, but lost the war.\" The \"Miami Herald\" text last line is: \"That's how Japanese wardens cured decadent Americans but lost the war--so it says here in fine print.\"\n\nOn September 18, 1945 the \"Miami Herald\" published article by George Weller \"Japan Holds Prisoners In Secret\" on Chinese prisoners on Kyushu, based on information source Lt. Edward Little (later court-martialled for crimes while a POW. This article has close to identical text with the article included in \"Weller's War\" pages 618-9 and there described as: \"This dispatch was censored by MacArthur and never published.\"\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" on September 29, 1945 printed another article \"By George Weller Chicago Daily News Foreign Service Nagasaki September 28 Californians Worked to Death on Dam by Japs.\" Most of this article printed in the \"Los Angeles Times\" is contained in the dispatch dated September 24, 1945 published in \"First into Nagasaki\" pages 139-143.\n\nFor sixty years Weller's own carbon of these dispatches were presumed lost, until they were discovered by Weller's son, Anthony, six months after George Weller's death.\n\nWeller claims that he was \"the first Westerner to enter either of the bombed cities after Japan surrendered\" and that \"No other correspondent had yet evaded the authorities to reach either Hiroshima or Nagasaki.\" However, other reports note people entering the city as early as August 22, and the earliest dispatch from Weller was dated September 6 (see below).\n\nAustralian journalist Wilfrid Burchett arrived in Hiroshima on September 3, 1945, and a Hiroshima dispatch from him was printed September 5, 1945 in the London \"Daily Express\".\n\nGeorge Weller:\n\"...I entered it [Nagasaki] on September 6, 1945, as the first free westerner to do so after the end of the war.\" [page 3]\n\"...the writer arrived here [Nagasaki] this afternoon as the first visitor from the outside Allied world.\" [page 25]\n\"...the writer--the first Allied observer to reach Nagasaki since the surrender--...\" [page 43]\nAnthony Weller:\n\"...no outsider had been in yet, not even from the U.S. military.\" [pages 245-246]\n\nWeller [Part I First into Nagasaki in the book \"First into Nagasaki\" page 3] writes: \"Whenever I see the word 'Nagasaki,' a vision arises of the city when I entered it on September 6, 1945, as the first free westerner to do so after the end of the war. No other correspondent had yet evaded the authorities to reach either Hiroshima or Nagasaki.\"\n\nHowever, the \"Chicago Daily News\" on August 30, 1945 published under size extra large headline: \"1st INSIDE STORY OF HIROSHIMA Reporter Tells How City Vanished in Atom Blast\" a notable scoop by Leslie Nakashima written for United Press (and also printed in the \"New York Times\" \"Newsman finds all of Hiroshima gone after atom blow.\") Born in Hawaii and previously a reporter for the \"Honolulu Star-Bulletin\" and a foreign correspondent with wire agency UP in pre-war Tokyo this Nisei's dispatch includes: \"...I arrived at Hiroshima at 5 A.M. Aug. 22, to find out about my mother, who lived in the outskirts of the city. Alighting from the train, I found that Hiroshima station—once one of the largest in western Japan—no longer existed. ...The sight before me as I headed for the outskirts of the city where my mother lived was unbelievable. It was unbelievable because only a fortnight before the bombing I had seen the city intact when I evacuated my wife and two daughters to central Japan. Except for one or two bombs dropped on separate occasions by B-29's, Hiroshima had not been subjected to heavy incendiary attacks. ...But I found my mother safe. She had been weeding grass in a relative's vegetable field about two miles southeast of the city when she saw the flash...A school in the suburbs near mother's home has been converted into a field hospital to care for people who suffered burns. The majority of these cases is believed hopeless. Many of the victims are unidentifiable. Even now two or three patients are dying daily at this one hospital.\"\n\nAnd the \"Chicago Daily News\" published a dispatch by Associated Press war correspondent Vern Haugland on page one under size large headline: \"U.S. Writer Views Hiroshima\" Continued dispatch section headline: \"\"First U.S. Reporter Sees Hiroshima Ruins\".\"\n\nCorrespondents from the \"Headliner-Dateliner\" group with Lt. Col. John 'Tex' McCrary of the Strategic Air Forces visited both Hiroshima (September 4–5) and Nagasaki (September 8–9), publishing a series of thorough and informative dispatches which covered both atomic cities and included medical aspects.\n\nSeveral of the eyewitnesses Weller interviewed described seeing a parachute, or parachutes, falling on the day of the bombing. In an account published more than twenty years after his visit to Nagasaki, Weller asserts that the bomb which destroyed Nagasaki was a \"lazy-falling missile floating under a parachute.\"\"...riding under a silk handkerchief.\" [\"First into Nagasaki\" page 3] Since the bomb did not descend by parachute (a fact well known twenty years later) this description is incorrect. \n\nParachutes were attached to instruments were dropped by support-planes during the mission to measure the effects of the blast.\n\nIn the same 1967 account Weller asserts that Nagasaki, prior to August 9, 1945 \"...in the face of all logic, it had been spared so far...Streams of B-29s flowed north and south around it, but this prime target remained mysteriously untouched.\" Weller offers several theories connected with the supposed sparing of Nagasaki.\n\nContrary to George Weller's unaccountable assertion that Nagasaki before August 9, 1945 was \"mysteriously untouched\", Nagasaki had in fact been targeted in August 1945, August 1944, as well as the April 1945 raid which became famous as \"The legend of Lieut. Gene Flewellen and his B-29, the \"Experiment Perilous\"...a 'one-plane air force.'\" making George Weller's statement incorrect.\n\nOn, August 10, 1944 Nagasaki had been bombed by B-29s \"launched from China against Nagasaki's urban area. The twenty-four attacking bombers unloaded 4 tons of fragmentation bombs and 77 tons of incendiaries on the primary. \n\nThere is an element of foreshadowing in the fact that Nagasaki was the first Japanese city to be attacked and firebombed by AAF 'precision' bombers, in view of what the city was to experience almost one year later.\" \n\nOn April 27, 1945, Lieut. Gene Flewellen commanding the B-29 \"Experiment Perilous\" was forced by weather to abandon his original target on Kyūshū and, without accompanying aircraft, flew southward down the coast seeking a target of opportunity and bombed the Nagasaki dock area. The absence of anti-aircraft fire indicated that the Japanese were \"entirely surprised. The lone B-29 wheeled and headed south. Several hours later the pilot put the huge craft down at Saipan, with ten minutes of gas left in his tanks.\" \n\nOn August 3, 1945 \"New York Times\" had carried the front page headline \"BOMBERS FIRE GREAT NAGASAKI SHIPYARDS\" and a page one story beginning \"Nagasaki, one of the three major shipbuilding centers of Japan and ninth port of the empire, was left aflame yesterday, its dockyards smashed and its harbor littered with sunken ships by over 250 planes of General George C. Kenney's Far East Air Force.\" The article continues with a full description of the air battle over Nagasaki, and the destruction of oil tanks, ships, warehouses and railyard. The raid of August 2, 1945 included Mitchell and Liberator bombers as well as Thunderbolt and Mustang fighter planes. Weller's assertion published in 1967 is not consistent with this prominent, lengthy and detailed \"New York Times\" coverage, nor with his own assertion published in 2006 at the end of the very first dispatch datelined Nagasaki (September 6, 1945 2300 hours) that the city had had \"one earlier serious raid.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "13888071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13888071", "title": "Formula König", "text": "Formula König\n\nFormula König was an open wheel racing series based in Germany and sponsored by German automobile company König Komfort- und Rennsitze GmbH (König comfort and racing seats GmbH). It ran from 1988 to 2004 as a single-seater feeder series. Its most famous champion was seven-time Formula One world champion, Michael Schumacher.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4180155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4180155", "title": "Fremont Solstice Parade", "text": "Fremont Solstice Parade\n\nThe Fremont Solstice Parade is an annual event produced in June by the Fremont Arts Council (FAC), a non-profit organization based in the Fremont neighborhood of Seattle, Washington, USA, that supports the arts and artists in and around the city. It is a Mardi Gras styled, entirely human powered event that is distinguished from mainstream public parades by its unusual rules. These four rules are \"No written words, signage or recognizable logos; no motorized vehicles (except wheelchairs); no live animals (except guide animals); and no functional weapons.\" The event appears as a slowly paced music, dance and character procession where direct crowd interaction is encouraged and ensembles of actors in costume entertain with political and social commentary.\n\nThe Solstice Parade was founded in 1989 by Barbara Luecke and Peter Toms, and quickly grew to thousands of participants and tens of thousands of spectators. The parade kicks off the Fremont Fair, which for many years was a benefit for Solid Ground (originally known as the Fremont Public Association). On January 29, 2010, Solid Ground announced that it is turning over ownership of the fair to the Fremont Chamber of Commerce.\n\nThe parade is famous for its style and flair, political humor, energetic ensembles, and creative floats. It is also widely known for the body-painted Solstice Cyclists, who strip down before the parade and paint their bodies, unofficially starting the event each year. In 2015, the Solstice Cyclists were estimated at over 1500 individuals by Peter Toms, parade co-founder, following the event.\nThe Fremont Solstice Pageant, a large-scale community play using over a hundred actors, musicians and giant puppets, was performed following the parade from 1997 to 2005 at the end of the parade route at Gas Works Park.\n\nIn 2017 the Solstice Parade took place on June 17, 2017.\n\nIn 2018 the Fremont Solstice Parade will be at 1pm on Saturday the 16th of June. The free of charge, all-ages, nude bicycle portion of the Solstice celebration begins 2 hours PRIOR to the Parade. Buses will be running all regular routes throughout the parade weekend; because Parking is always a bitch.\n\nThe event distinguishes itself from other mainstream parades with its unusual rules restricting printed words and motor vehicles. As the Fremont Arts Council states:\nThe Fremont Solstice Parade was founded by Barbara Luecke and Peter Toms in 1989 who were inspired by the Santa Barbara Summer Solstice Parade and Celebration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6079576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6079576", "title": "Haro Wine Festival", "text": "Haro Wine Festival\n\nHaro Wine Festival is a festival in the town of Haro in the La Rioja region of northern Spain. It is held every year in the summer and involves a \"Batalla de Vino\" (Battle of Wine) where wines are poured at each other from buckets.\n\nThe celebration takes place on June 29, the day of the patron saint San Pedro. The day begins at 9:00 am, with a procession of people old and young,all carrying jugs, bottles, botas and other types of containers filled with red wine. Led by the town's mayor, on horseback, the procession winds through the town to the Cliffs of Bilibio, where a mass is celebrated at the Hermitage of San Felices de Bilibio. After the mass a true free-for-all begins, with everyone tossing wine on each other until all are soaked from head to foot. Then at noon everyone returns to town to celebrate at the Plaza de la Paz, followed by bullfights in the town's bullring. But the bullfights are only for the youth, and the \"bulls\" are actually just heifers. Also, none of the heifers are killed. Also, no bull-fighting happens at all. \n\n"}
{"id": "42383696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42383696", "title": "Hubert Raymond Allen", "text": "Hubert Raymond Allen\n\nHubert Raymond Allen, (19 March 1919 – 31 May 1987) was a Royal Air Force (RAF) officer and commentator on defence matters. He fought during the Battle of Britain and was an flying ace of the Second World War, scoring 8 victories. Following his retirement from the RAF as a wing commander in 1965, Allen wrote several controversial books and articles on air power. He criticised RAF Air Staff policies before and during the Second World War. In contrast to the conventional narrative account, he maintained that during the Battle of Britain naval rather than air power was the crucial factor. His opinions clashed with mainstream opinion of the RAF's role, and with the views of many air historians, but his viewpoint received some support and significant attention.\n\nAllen was commissioned into the Royal Air Force in 1939, the outbreak of war curtailing life as an undergraduate at Cardiff University where he was reading Economics. After training, he joined No. 66 Squadron RAF in mid-April 1940. Originally part of Fighter Command's No. 12 Group covering the Midlands and East Anglia, No. 66 Squadron took part in the air battles over the Dunkirk evacuation. During the Battle of Britain, the squadron joined No. 11 Group at Kenley for a week and later served at Gravesend, West Malling and Biggin Hill. Allen had seven confirmed kills and was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross.\n\nHis nickname, \"Dizzy\", reflected his ability to escape a tight situation by executing an aerobatic flat-spin. He was shot down and wounded on a number of occasions, once by the well-known \"Luftwaffe\" ace Werner Molders and again as a result of an air-to-air collision with another RAF pilot. In 1978, Allen recorded his experiences as a combat pilot for a BBC programme in which he expressed high praise for his fellow pilots and ground staff but was critical of the radar controllers and the higher echelons of the RAF. His attitude towards those pilots who refused combat was harshly uncompromising, though such feelings were not uncommon at this time. After the Battle of Britain, he became No. 66 Squadron's commander squadron commander at age 21, succeeding Athol Forbes, with whom he later collaborated in writing, \"Ten Fighter Boys: 66 Squadron RAF\", a collection of first hand accounts of participants originally published in the middle of the war (1942). Allen described his time with No. 66 Squadron in \"Fighter Squadron 1940–1942\".\n\nLater in the war he became Air Advisor to the 1st Airborne Division and then Tactics and Gunnery Officer to No. 12 Group.\n\nPost-war, he commanded a squadron of Gloster Meteor jet fighters. He was Air Defence Advisor to the Dutch Government for three years, and was awarded the Order of Orange-Nassau. Allen was a skilled pilot having moved from piston engine propeller-driven fighters to the newer generation of jets including the English Electric Lightning, which had a speed exceeding 1,000 mph.\n\nHe planned the RAF's coronation flypast over the Queen's balcony at Buckingham Palace in 1953. During the later Queen's Coronation Review, he arranged for 168 aircraft of varying types to fly over the Queen at RAF Odiham in a series of coordinated formations despite appalling weather conditions. As wing commander, he was Personal Staff Officer to the Chief of Staff, Allied Air Forces Central Europe and after his retirement a member of the Corps of Queen's Messengers, a Foreign and Commonwealth Office courier service for the delivery of important diplomatic documents around the world.\n\nHe retired in January 1965, later stating that his reason for leaving the RAF prematurely was concern over an RAF plan in the mid-1960s \"to snatch the Fleet Air Arm from the Navy. I knew from my study of military strategy that the demise of the Fleet Air Arm would render ineffective the Navy's role in preserving the sea communications on which Britain utterly depends.\"\n\nAllen's \"The Legacy of Lord Trenchard\" questioned the need for an independent RAF and the rectitude of Air Staff policies before and during the Second World War. The provocatively titled \"Who Won the Battle of Britain\" (first published in 1974) followed shortly afterwards with a critique of RAF structure, leadership and doctrine before and during the air campaigns of 1940. Controversially, Allen stated that RAF Fighter Command's 11 Group was a defeated force at the time the invasion was most likely to have been launched. Allen argued that the Luftwaffe did not lose the Battle of Britain air campaigns – reasoning that the Luftwaffe's damaging attacks on airfields containing vital sector stations gave them air superiority during the critical period of late August to early September preceding the change of focus to the bombing of London after which it dropped thousands of tons of bombs with negligible losses. But the Luftwaffe did not win it either as it lacked the training and equipment and therefore the potential to sink enough of the Royal Navy's warships, especially the large capital ships.\n\nAllen maintained that it was the deterrent effect of the Royal Navy fleet in being that was the decisive factor in Adolf Hitler's decision not to launch Operation Sea Lion, the planned invasion of Great Britain. The air battles were important but not fundamental. Having been made aware of the naval problems by the German Naval Staff, Adolf Hitler took Luftwaffe chief Hermann Göring's advice and switched to a Douhet night bombing campaign against civilian centres to try and force the United Kingdom into a negotiated peace. He concluded that \"the Battle of Britain has been glorified to the point of hyperbole by British historians\".\n\nAllen's case for the primacy of sea power in 1940 is not unique. Derek Robinson and Geoff Hewitt have argued similarly, seeing the Royal Navy as the main invasion deterrent in 1940. However, neither criticised the RAF's leadership and strategy as emphatically as Allen. Some air historians have argued that Fighter Command's 11 Group was \"perilously close to collapse\" owing to the loss of experienced pilots and damage to command and control infrastructure during the critical period. 11 Group's continuing effectiveness was particularly important because the beaches upon which the Germans planned to land were within their operational area.\n\nAnthony Cumming judged that the immense superiority of the Royal Navy in home waters together with the anti-maritime limitations of the Luftwaffe were the main reasons for effectively abandoning Operation Sea Lion in 1940. In 1958, Duncan Grinnell-Milne submitted his case on behalf of the Royal Navy and in 1960 was further supported by Captain Stephen Roskill, the British Official Naval Historian for the Second World War. Integrating elements of air and sea aspects, Telford Taylor put forward a thorough study of the question a few years later. In more recent years Cumming's \"The Royal Navy and the Battle of Britain\" has supported the primacy of seapower argument and James Holland's \"The Battle of Britain\" has included a detailed account of the struggle at sea along with accounts of air combat. Both show that sailors, soldiers and airmen were actively engaged in fighting the Germans during the Battle of Britain if the battle is defined to include events prior to the main air fighting such as the Norway campaign and the Dunkirk evacuation – Operation Dynamo. Even with a Luftwaffe victory in the air, neither Holland nor Cumming believes it likely that Operation Sea Lion would have succeeded if launched.\n\nThe press heavily criticised three historians from the Joint Services Staff Command College, who were portrayed in a History magazine and the national press as supporting the idea that the Royal Navy won the Battle of Britain. In Britain, at least, questions surrounding the role of the RAF in the Battle of Britain remain sensitive. These historians later argued that this media coverage of their opinions was a 'silly season story par excellence', pointing out that the idea that a small number of young pilots had alone prevented a German invasion is something that historians have long disputed. What Battle of Britain accounts have lacked, they argued, is a more holistic approach that sees the campaign as one in which all three services had played a crucial role. Allen's \"Who Won the Battle of Britain\" and his articles were a step in this direction. Both \"The Legacy of Lord Trenchard\" and \"Who Won the Battle of Britain\" show signs of having been influenced by the former war correspondent and Sunday Times Defence Correspondent David Divine, another fierce critic of the air establishment. However, even Divine did not question the RAF's role and performance in the Battle of Britain as Allen did.\n\nFrancis Mason criticised Allen's \"Who Won the Battle of Britain\" for displaying 'a bland ignorance of aircraft design' regarding the problems of fitting heavy calibre 0.5' machine guns to a Spitfire and 'ignoring the atmosphere of national parsimony in which successive air ministers and air staff members fought to provide any air defence at all.' Mason implied that Allen's criticism of the recently deceased Fighter Command chief, Air Marshal Sir Hugh Dowding, who could no longer defend himself, was distasteful. Allen did indeed criticise Dowding's conduct of the battle, particularly for allowing the brunt of the fighting to fall upon the embattled 11 Group, but had also argued that Dowding's earlier achievements had been ignored in the failure to make him a Marshal of the Royal Air Force upon retirement. Dowding was sympathetically portrayed in the 1969 blockbuster feature film, \"Battle of Britain\", and died in 1970. He was widely regarded as a national hero, and was officially acknowledged by the erection of his statue at the RAF Chapel, St Clement Dane a few years later. Public criticism of Dowding was controversial during the 1970s, although Laddie Lucas and Douglas Bader also considered Dowding to have deployed a 'parochial' defence that prevented the full resources of Fighter Command being used.\n\nAlfred Price, a historian known for attacking Battle of Britain myths, criticised Allen's \"Times\" assertion that the Luftwaffe could have knocked Britain out of the war had it concentrated the night blitz against British ports. To achieve this, Price argued, 'the Luftwaffe would have had to mount a series of heavy and accurate attacks, repeated at regular intervals over a period of several months … the force lacked both the strength and equipment to achieve this'.\n\nSir John Slessor, a former RAF Director of Plans, 1937–1940, and Marshal of the Royal Air Force, claimed Allen's \"Times\" article on Lord Hugh Trenchard, 'Father of the RAF' contained 'multiple mis-statements' but did not attempt to detail what these were. Slessor had a long and close relationship with Trenchard and his biographer commented that 'In his [Slessor's] years at the Air Ministry he now became one of the most passionate disciples of Lord Trenchard and his theories of strategic air power as a war-winning weapon'.\n\nMargaret Salmond, widow of a senior air force officer also wrote a 'vehement protest' to Allen's phrase 'The Battle of Britain that never was' emphasising that 'we should never forget how much we owe to those brave young pilots …' reflecting a widely held perception that only a handful of RAF pilots had prevented the invasion. In fact it was never his intention to deprecate former comrades whom he had already praised but it was still difficult to attack popular perceptions of the RAF's role without seeming to attack 'the few'.\n\nAllen's views were given prominent coverage in the \"Times\" during the 44th and 48th Battle of Britain anniversaries. Publicising these opinions in such a prominent way did not endear Allen to former RAF colleagues or to the general public. Even his obituary writer considered Allen's views 'eccentric', not appearing to understand why previous editors took them as seriously as they did.\n\n"}
{"id": "202677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202677", "title": "Human rights in Saddam Hussein's Iraq", "text": "Human rights in Saddam Hussein's Iraq\n\nIraq's era under President Saddam Hussein was notorious for its severe violations of human rights. Secret police, state terrorism, torture, mass murder, rape, deportations, forced disappearances, assassinations, chemical warfare, and the destruction of southern Iraq's marshes were some of the methods the country's Ba'athist government used to maintain control. The total number of deaths related to torture and murder during this period are unknown. Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International issued regular reports of widespread imprisonment and torture.\n\nHuman rights organizations have documented government-approved executions, acts of torture and rape for decades since Saddam Hussein came to power in 1979 until his fall in 2003.\n\n\nAccording to officials of the United States State Department, many human rights abuses in Saddam Hussein's Iraq were largely carried out in person or by the orders of Saddam Hussein and eleven other people.\nThe term \"Saddam's Dirty Dozen\" was coined in October 2002 (from a novel by E.M. Nathanson, later adapted as a film directed by Robert Aldrich) and used by US officials to describe this group. Most members of the group held high positions in the Iraqi government and membership went all the way from Saddam's personal guard to Saddam's sons. The list was used by the Bush Administration to help argue that the 2003 Iraq war was against Saddam Hussein and the Baath Party leadership, rather than against the Iraqi people. The members are:\n\n\nMethods of torture used by Saddam's regime included assault with brass knuckles and wooden bludgeons; electric shocks to the genitalia; scorched metal rods being forced into body orifices; the crushing of toes and removal of toenails; burning off limbs; lowering prisoners into vats of acid; poisoning with thallium; raping women in front of their family members; burning with cigarette butts; the crushing of bones; the amputation of ears, limbs, and tongues; and the gouging of eyes. Nicholas Kristoff of \"The New York Times\" commented: \"Police in other countries use torture, after all, but there are credible reports that Saddam's police cut out tongues and use electric drills. Other countries gouge out the eyes of dissidents; Saddam's interrogators gouged out the eyes of hundreds of children to get their parents to talk.\"\n\nThe destruction of Shi'a religious shrines by the former government has been compared \"to the leveling of cities in the Second World War, and the damage to the shrines [of Hussein and Abbas] was more serious than that which had been done to many European cathedrals.\" After the 1983-88 genocide, some 1 million Kurds were allowed to resettle in \"model villages\". According to a U.S. Senate staff report, these villages \"were poorly constructed, had minimal sanitation and water, and provided few employment opportunities for the residents. Some, if not most, were surrounded by barbed wire, and Kurds could enter or leave only with difficulty.\" After the establishment of republican rule in Iraq, enormous numbers of Iraqis fled the country to escape political repression by Abd al-Karim Qasim and his successors, including Saddam Hussein; by 2001, it was estimated that \"Iraqi emigrants number more than 3 million (leaving a population of 23 million inside the country).\"\n\nIn January 2004, Human Rights Watch stated: \"Having devoted extensive time and effort to documenting [Saddam's] atrocities, we estimate that in the last twenty-five years of Ba'th Party rule the Iraqi government murdered or 'disappeared' some quarter of a million Iraqis, if not more.\" The 1988 Al-Anfal campaign resulted in the death of 50,000-100,000 Kurds (although Kurdish sources have cited a higher figure of 182,000), while 25,000-100,000 civilians and rebels were killed during the suppression of the 1991 uprisings. In addition, 4,000 prisoners at Abu Ghraib prison were reportedly executed in a particularly large 1984 purge. Far fewer Iraqis are known to have been executed during other years of Saddam's rule. For example, \"Amnesty International reported that in 1981 over 350 people were officially executed in Iraq ... the Committee Against Repression in Iraq gives biographic particulars on 798 executions (along with 264 killings of unknown persons, and 428 biographies of unsentenced detainees and disappeared persons).\" Kanan Makiya cautions that a focus on the death toll obscures the full extent of \"the terror inside Iraq,\" which was largely the product of the pervasive secret police and systematic use of torture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1210116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1210116", "title": "Iram of the Pillars", "text": "Iram of the Pillars\n\nIram of the Pillars (, ), also called \"Aram\", \"Irum\", \"Irem\", \"Erum\", or the \"City of the tent poles,\" is a lost city, region or tribe mentioned in the Qur'an.\n\nThe Qur'an, revealed in the 7th century CE according to Islamic belief, mentions Iram in connection with \"‘imad\" (, pillars) [Qur'an: The Dawn 89:7]:\n\nThere are several explanations for the reference to \"Iram – who had lofty pillars\". Some see this as a geographic location, either a city or an area, others as the name of a tribe. Those identifying it as a city have made various suggestions as to where or what city it was, ranging from Alexandria or Damascus to a city which actually moved or a city called Ubar. As an area it has been identified with the biblical Aram, son of Shem and the biblical region known as Aram. It has also been identified as a tribe, possibly the tribe of ʿĀd, with the pillars referring to tent pillars.\n\n\"The identification of Wadi Rum with Iram and the tribe of ‘Ad, mentioned in the Qur’an, has been proposed by scholars who have translated Thamudic and Nabataean inscriptions referring to both the place Iram and the tribes of ‘Ad and Thamud by name.\"\n\nAccording to some Islamic beliefs, King Shaddad defied the warnings of the prophet Hud and Allah smote the city, driving it into the sands, never to be seen again. The ruins of the city lie buried somewhere in the sands of \"al-Rub' al Khali\" (, the Empty Quarter). Iram became known to Western literature with the translation of the story \"The City of Many-Coloured Iram and Abdullah Son of Abi Kilabah\" in \"The Book of One Thousand and One Nights\".\n\nIn 1992 Ranulph Fiennes wrote a book called \"Atlantis of the Sands\" about a legendary lost city in the southern Arabian sands, claimed to have been destroyed by a natural disaster or as a punishment by God. Various names have been given to it including Iram.\n\nArchaeologist Juris Zarins discussed Ubar in a 1996 interview saying “There's a lot of confusion about that word. If you look at the classical texts and the Arab historical sources, Ubar refers to a region and a group of people, not to a specific town. People always overlook that. It's very clear on Ptolemy’s second century map of the area. It says in big letters \"Iobaritae\" And in his text that accompanied the maps, he's very clear about that. It was only the late medieval version of \"One Thousand and One Nights\", in the fourteenth or fifteenth century, that romanticised Ubar and turned it into a city, rather than a region or a people.\"\n\nBy 2007, following further research and excavation, a study authored in part by Zarins could be summarised as follows:\n\n\nThere are many Hadiths about Iram perhaps the most interesting one is the story of \"Abdullah bin Qalabah\" who lost his camel and found Iram of the Pillars while searching for his camel. The story has been rejected by some Islamic scholars who said that the story is an Isra'iliyyat Hadith and that is because Kaabul Ahbar was Jewish before he converted to Islam and he was accused by some scholars of narrating Isra'iliyyat stories.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23452124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23452124", "title": "J. K. Tyl Theatre", "text": "J. K. Tyl Theatre\n\nJosef Kajetán Tyl Theatre () is a main theatre in Plzeň, Czech Republic. The theatre was built between 1899–1902 in the neo-renaissance style with some art nouveau elements to the design of Antonin Balsanek. Every year the theatre performs some 18 premieres of drama, operas, operettas, ballets or musicals. Since September 2014, actors of the theatre also perform at the New Theatre.\n\nIn front of the façade stands a statue of Josef Kajetán Tyl by Alois Soper.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19531674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19531674", "title": "Lax Ksiluux", "text": "Lax Ksiluux\n\nLax Ksiluux is the name of a former First Nations community in northwestern British Columbia, Canada. It existed on the south side of the Nass River near a creek known as Ts'oohl Ts'ap.\n\nLax Ksiluux was in existence prior to the eruption of Tseax Cone in the 18th century which buried the community with thick lava flows along with the nearby community of Wii Lax K'abit.\n\n"}
{"id": "764390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=764390", "title": "Lowlands (festival)", "text": "Lowlands (festival)\n\nA Campingflight to Lowlands Paradise (Lowlands), is an annual three-day music and performing arts festival, held in the Netherlands. The festival is held east of Amsterdam in Biddinghuizen, at Spijk en Bremerberg, which is adjacent to Walibi Holland.\n\nAlthough the main focus is on music - rock, pop, dance, hip hop and alternative - Lowlands also offers indoor and outdoor cinema, (street) theatre, cabaret and stand-up, ballet, literature and comic strips.\n\nThe festival is a successor to one of the very first Dutch pop festivals: \"A Flight to Lowlands Paradise\" that was organised in November 1967 by the Utrecht-based artist and painter Bunk Bessel. This festival took place in the Margriethal of Jaarbeurs Utrecht. The entry fee was 10 Dutch guilders (approximately 4.50 euros), including breakfast. This 18-hour-long event had no top acts but included experimental theatre, dancing, poetry, films, body painting and massage. The Utrecht municipality did not pay up the promised subsidy of 8,000 guilders after the event.\n\nOn 28 December 1968, this festival was held a second time, postponed by a month from its original date of 23 November to try to get Jimi Hendrix to attend the event. This could not be arranged, and other large acts such as Jeff Beck and Jethro Tull were cancelled. However, Pink Floyd remained on the bill. In the end, the show was sold out to its capacity of 18,000 visitors, and for many people it was a cold and disappointing experience as they were unable to get inside. There was unrest and the police had to be involved.\n\nIn 1993, organizer Willem Venema revived this festival under the name \"A Campingflight to Lowlands Paradise\". The festival is attended by around 55,000 visitors, spread over 200 acts and more than ten stages every year which are named according to the NATO phonetic alphabet apart from the Grolsch stage (named after the beer brewer Grolsch who has been the main sponsor of the festival for the last few years). The majority of stages are inside huge tents - insurance against the Netherlands climate - with the main stage's tent, Alpha, being approximately the size of a regulation football pitch.\n\nLife of Agony released a CD of their unplugged set from the Lowlands Festival in 1997, entitled \"Unplugged at the Lowlands Festival '97\".\n"}
{"id": "46574254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46574254", "title": "MV Maersk Tigris", "text": "MV Maersk Tigris\n\nThe MV \"Maersk Tigris\" is a Marshall Islands registered container ship. Completed in 2014, the ship is long, wide and weighs 52600 tonnes.\n\nOn 28 April 2015, the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps Navy intercepted and seized the ship while it was transiting through Iranian territorial waters via the Strait of Hormuz. An initial instruction by the IRGC Navy to the MV Maersk Tigris to proceed further into Iranian territorial waters was not complied with, after which the Iranian Navy fired a warning shot across the bridge of the ship. The ship was then taken into Iranian custody. Given that the vessel is flagged under the Marshall Islands, which the United States bears security responsibility for, the U.S. Navy dispatched the destroyer USS \"Farragut\" after receiving a distress call from the \"Maersk Tigris\".\n\nThe vessel's charterer, the Danish shipping company Maersk, said Iran's seizure of a commercial vessel engaged in innocent passage through Iran's territorial waters in the internationally recognized shipping lane of the Strait of Hormuz was illegal. Maersk said it presumed the ship was detained because of an ongoing court case between Maersk Line and an Iranian company, but that Iran erred not only by failing to engage in normal protocol for arresting a ship, but by seizing property and personnel that do not belong to Maersk. The ship is chartered by Maersk Line and Maersk owns the ship's containers, but the ship itself is owned by Wide Golf Ltd., registered in Luxembourg, and is managed by Singapore-based Rickmers Shipmanagement.\n\nOn 29 April 2015, Maersk said it had been informed by the Iranian Ports and Maritime Organization that an Iranian court had ordered it to pay $3.6 million in compensation to an Iranian company for the loss of 10 of its containers Maersk Line had shipped to Dubai in January 2005. In February 2015, an appeals court in Tehran ordered Maersk Line to pay the Iranian company $163,000. The Iranian company then appealed the case, seeking more money, which led to the $3.6 million judgment. Maersk said it had only learned on April 30 of the Iranian appeals court $3.6 million ruling, but that it had \"not received any written or formal confirmation that the seizure and the cargo case are connected.\n\nAccording to maritime consultant William Watson, when an entity has a financial claim against a vessel's owners, the claimant can arrest the vessel when it is in port or at anchor. But in his decades in the maritime industry, he had never seen such a seizure carried on open seas.\n\nOn 7 May 2015, Iran released the \"Maersk Tigris\".\n"}
{"id": "14601935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14601935", "title": "Mayerling (ballet)", "text": "Mayerling (ballet)\n\nMayerling is a ballet created in 1978 by Kenneth MacMillan for the Royal Ballet, London.\n\n\"Prologue: The cemetery at Heiligenkreuz before dawn\"\n\n\"Scene 1: The ballroom at the Hofburg Palace, Vienna\"\n\nA ball to celebrate the marriage of Crown Prince Rudolf of Austria-Hungary and Princess Stephanie of Belgium is in full swing. Rudolf flirts shamelessly with Stephanie's sister, Princess Louise, offending both his new bride and his parents, Emperor Franz Josef and Empress Elisabeth. Rudolf meets Countess Marie Larisch, a former mistress, and Baroness Vetsera. The Baroness introduces her 17-year-old daughter Mary Vetsera. Four Hungarian officers, friends of Rudolf, enter and forcefully argue the separatist cause of their country. Countess Larisch tries to rekindle her relationship with Rudolf. The pair are discovered by the Emperor, who demands that Rudolf return to his wife.\n\n\"Scene 2: The Empress’s apartments at the Hofburg\"\n\nHaving retired from the ball, Empress Elisabeth is being attended by her ladies-in-waiting. Rudolf visits his mother, on his way to his new bride. He expresses his deep unhappiness at being pressured into marriage. Desperate for maternal affection he tries to embrace the Empress, only to be coldly rebuffed.\n\n\"Scene 3: Rudolf’s apartments at the Hofburg\"\n\nPrincess Stephanie is getting ready for her wedding night. Rudolf enters and threatens Stephanie with a revolver before making love to her.\n\n\"Scene 1: A notorious tavern\"\n\nRudolf and Stephanie enter the tavern in disguise. They are accompanied by Rudolf's driver Bratfisch, who attempts to lighten Stephanie’s spirits. Prostitutes compete for the men’s attention and Stephanie flees the tavern in disgust. Rudolf turns his attention to his Hungarian friends and his regular mistress, the courtesan Mizzi Kaspar. The police burst in and Rudolf, Mitzi and the Hungarian officers hide. The police arrest several people before leaving. In a despairing mood, Rudolf proposes a suicide pact to Mitzi. The Prime Minister Count Taaffe enters the tavern, looking for Rudolf. Rudolf hides again but Mitzi tells the Count where he is hidden. The Count and Mitzi leave together.\n\n\"Scene 2: Outside the tavern\"\n\nCountess Larisch, ostensibly chaperoning Mary, presents the young girl to Rudolf as he leaves the tavern.\n\n\"Scene 3: The Vetsera house\"\n\nCountess Larisch calls on her friend Baroness Vetsera. She finds Mary absorbed by a portrait of Rudolf. Countess Larisch tells Mary’s fortune using a pack of cards and informs her that her romantic dreams will come true. Mary gives the Countess a letter to deliver to Rudolf on her behalf.\n\n\"Scene 4: The Hofburg\"\n\nDuring the Emperor's birthday celebrations Count Taaffe confronts Rudolph over an incriminating political pamphlet on the Hungarian cause. Colonel ‘Bay’ Middleton hands the Count a joke cigar, to Rudolf's intense amusement. The Empress presents the Emperor with a portrait of his 'friend' Katherina Schratt. A firework display distracts everyone except the Empress and ‘Bay.’ Rudolf notices their amorous exchange and becomes bitterly resentful. Countess Larisch produces Mary’s letter and teases Rudolf with it.\n\n\"Scene 5: Rudolf’s apartments at the Hofburg\"\n\nMary and Rudolf meet in secret for the first time.\n\n\"Scene 1: A royal shoot in the countryside\"\n\nDuring a hunting expedition, Rudolf unaccountably shoots wildly. He kills a member of the court, narrowly missing his father.\n\n\"Scene 2: Rudolf’s apartments at the Hofburg\"\n\nThe Empress discovers Countess Larisch and Rudolf alone together and angrily dismisses the Countess, unaware Mary is waiting outside. Mary enters after the Empress has left. Rudolf asks her to commit suicide with him.\n\n\"Scene 3: The hunting lodge at Mayerling\"\n\nRudolf shares a drink with Count Hoyos and Prince Philipp of Coburg, attended by his valet Loschek. He asks them to leave, saying he is unwell. Bratfisch enters with Mary. Rudolf instructs Bratfisch to entertain him and Mary. Bratfisch, soon realizing he has lost their attention, leaves. In a mounting frenzy Rudolf makes love to Mary. He injects himself with morphine to calm his nerves and embraces Mary for the last time. He shoots her. Loschek, Hoyos and Philipp rush in, having heard the shot. Rudolf reassures them and instructs them to leave. Alone, he shoots himself. His friends rush in again, and collapse in despair when they find Rudolf's dead body.\n\n\"Epilogue: The cemetery at Heiligenkreuz before dawn\"\n\nMayerling was first produced for the Royal Ballet in 1978, by the British choreographer Sir Kenneth Macmillan, with a scenario written by Gillian Freeman, scenery and costume designs by Nicholas Georgiadis and lighting design by David Hersey. Music for the ballet was compiled from existing works by Franz Liszt, arranged and orchestrated by John Lanchbery who also conducted the orchestra during the ballet's first season. The ballet was dedicated to the Royal Ballet's founder choreographer Sir Frederick Ashton and premiered at the Royal Opera House, London, on 14 February 1978. The Royal Opera House collections have archive information from twelve performances of this ballet, including the premiere and subsequent revivals.\n\nThe original production was, in general, well received by critics, however there were some reservations. Many reviewers found the ballet overly long and the historical background of the story difficult to follow. However, Mary Clarke in the \"Guardian\" defended the complexity of the work: \"Easy, after one or two viewings, to say this or that scene must go. But patience and understanding bring rewards; every scene tells something about Rudolf and the Court of Vienna in his time.\" \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> \"substitute for Alexandra Ansanelli\"\n\nMacMillan died of a heart attack on 29 October 1992, backstage at Covent Garden at a revival of \"Mayerling\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15028433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15028433", "title": "Mountain Jam (festival)", "text": "Mountain Jam (festival)\n\nMountain Jam is an annual music festival that began in 2005, held at Hunter Mountain ski resort in upstate New York, usually in early June.\n\nMountain Jam was originally conceived to celebrate the 25th anniversary of WDST/Radio Woodstock. More than 3,300 people attended the initial one-day event in 2005, reviews of which were overwhelmingly positive. The founders, including Warren Haynes, Gary Chetkof and members of Radio Woodstock, decided to make the event annual. Over time, the festival has grown to include a diverse lineup of smaller artists, as well as large acts including Michael Franti and Spearhead, Widespread Panic, The Black Keys and The Allman Brothers Band. Gov't Mule, the band Haynes co-founded, performed at every Mountain Jam until 2016.\n\nMountain Jam's three stages allow for continuous music each day. The East Stage is the largest, overlooking the main terrain of the resort. Adjacent to the East Stage is the West Stage, near the resort's chair lift; and Inside the Base Lodge a third stage is set up for late night acts and musicians who require indoor amenities.\nAmenities for event goers include a tent camping area in the Hunter One section of the resort and RV camping farther up the mountain. Various hotels also serve the town year-round, and the Kaatskill Mountain Club hotel and Liftside Condominiums are both within walking distance of the festival.\n\nSome years have seen non-stop rain for almost the entire duration of the festival, while other events have had sunny and temperate weather.\n\nThe 14th Mountain Jam will take place from Thursday, June 14th to Sunday, June 17, 2018.\nThis year's festival lineup will include:\nThursday\n\nFriday\n\nSaturday\n\nSunday\nThursday\n\nFriday\n\nSaturday\n\nSunday\n\nAlso included was a brief set in tribute to Levon Helm, who was based in nearby Woodstock and had died on April 20. The set featured Gov't Mule, the Levon Helm Band, and special guests.\n\n\nMountain Jam 2010 took place June 4 to June 6.\nThe lineup included:\n\nMountain Jam 2009 took place May 29–30. The lineup included:\n\nFriday\n\nSaturday\n\n\nSunday\nMountain Jam 2008 took place May 30-June 1.\nThe three-day lineup included:\nFriday\n\nSaturday\n\nSunday\nMountain Jam 2007 took place June 1–3 and was cited as was the largest music festival in the Northeast/New England.\nThe lineup featured:\nFriday\n\nSaturday\n\nSunday\nThe 2006 Mountain Jam took place June 2–4. The \"New York Times\" described it as a \"little Bonnaroo\".\nThe lineup included:\nFriday Night\n\nSaturday\n\nSunday\nThe original Mountain Jam, a single-day event on June 4, 2005, celebrated the 25th anniversary of WDST, Woodstock's radio station. The festival featured performances by:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2765929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2765929", "title": "Never at War", "text": "Never at War\n\nNever at War: Why Democracies Will Not Fight One Another is a book by the historian and physicist Spencer R. Weart published by Yale University Press in 1998. It examines political and military conflicts throughout human history and finds no exception to one of the claims made by the controversial democratic peace theory: well-established liberal democracies have never made war on one another. In addition to the democratic peace, Weart argues that there is also an oligarchic peace and provides a new explanation for both the democratic and oligarchic peace. The book is often mentioned in the academic debate and has received both praise and criticism.\n\nDue to the long time period, Weart has often relied on the works of other historians but has consulted at least five works for even trivial crises involving democracies and oligarchies. Some cases have never been studied with this question in mind and he has then used primary sources which included reading works in French, German (including Alemannic German), Italian (including the Tuscan dialect), Spanish, Greek and Latin.\n\nThe book classifies human societies into four broad groups:\n\nLooking at a borderline case, the Athenian democracy that excluded metics and slaves, Weart argues that it was a democracy since appearance alone could not decide who was a citizen, citizens could become slaves and slaves could become free, citizens could be poorer than slaves, and slaves could work for example as bankers. The metics were even harder to tell from the citizens. Typically the citizens and the non-citizens worked alongside under similar conditions. Thus, the non-citizens were so interwoven through the community that their views were probably represented by the citizens on most issues. Some aspects of the direct democracy practiced in Athens may have been more open and democratic than the representative democracy used today. In contrast, the Confederate States of America was an oligarchy.\n\nIn order to help differentiate between oligarchies and democracies, Weart requires that the classification should not differ from how the people at the time viewed the differences, the oligarchic elite should live in constant fear of a rebellion, and for democracies a war should not have been prevented if everyone had the vote. For example, it was the Greeks who first created the concepts of democracy and oligarchy and they classified Athens as a democracy while Sparta was an oligarchy. There is no mention in the historical record of fears of a revolt by the slaves in Athens, but such fears were frequent in Sparta and the Confederate States.\n\nWeart uses a broader definition of war than is usual in research on the democratic peace theory and includes any conflict causing at least 200 deaths in organized battle by political units against one another. He requires that the democracies and the oligarchies should have tolerated dissent for at least 3 years, finding this time necessary for a political culture in a nation to change and be reflected in foreign policy.\n\nUsing these definitions, Weart finds numerous wars between the same and different kinds of societies but also two exceptions. Democracies have never fought one another and oligarchies have almost never fought one another. Wars between democracies and oligarchies have, however, been common.\n\nThe book argues that the pattern is sharply evident in for example 300 years of Ancient Greek history, the Swiss Cantons since the 14th century, in the County of Flanders during the 14th century, in the three and a half centuries of the Hanseatic League, and in Renaissance Italy. These periods included numerous societies that frequently changed regime type. The societies abruptly stopped fighting other oligarchies if they became an oligarchy and abruptly stopped fighting other democracies if they became a democracy. This pattern immediately reversed if the regime type changed again.\n\nWeart argues that the only clear case of war between oligarchies is a 1656 battle between Bern and Lucerne, caused by religious fervor during the Reformation. The War of the Pacific may be another, but both Chile and Peru had strong anocratic tendencies where family and personal loyalty formed much of the power base of the leaders. Toleration of political dissent was at best limited.\n\nDemocracies have a few times issued formal declarations of war on other democracies, usually because of a war between a temporary allied nondemocracy and the other democracy. In these cases the democracies have carefully avoided engaging in almost any real battle with one another. There seems to have been almost no deaths during the 369–362 BC war between Thebes and Athens, while at the same time Sparta and Thebes fought numerous bloody battles. In the main battle in 362 BC, the Athenian infantry avoided joining the charge. Finland and the United Kingdom carefully avoided attacking one another during World War II despite a formal declaration of war.\n\nWeart's explanation for the democratic and the oligarchic peace is the human tendency to classify other humans into ingroup and outgroup, documented in many psychological studies. Members of the outgroup are seen as inherently inferior and thus exploitation of them is justified. Citizens of democracies include citizens of other democratic states in the ingroup; the elites of oligarchies include the elites of other oligarchies in the ingroup. However, the oligarchic elites and the democratic citizens view each other as outgroup, democracies viewing the elites as exploiting the rest of the population, the oligarchic elites viewing democracies as governed by inferior men and are afraid that the democratic ideals may spread to their state.\n\nThe democratic and oligarchic peace are also strengthened by the culture of arbitration and the respect for the ingroup opposition in both democracies and oligarchies. Similar policies are applied to foreign policy when dealing with states belonging to the ingroup. In contrast, the leaders of autocracies are the survivors of a culture of violence against opponents. They use similar methods when dealing with other states which often cause wars. The book presents earlier statistical studies and case studies showing that democracies and oligarchies conduct diplomacy very differently from autocracies. Weart argues against explanations like more trade between democracies, finding the pattern to change too abruptly for this to be the case.\n\nEarlier democracies and oligarchies did not include non-Europeans in the ingroup, perceiving them to be racially inferior people living in autocracies and anocracies. This allowed colonial and imperialistic wars and exploitation.\n\nThe book also describes an \"appeasement trap\". The autocratic leaders misunderstand the conciliatory methods used by democracies and oligarchies, seeing it as an admission of weakness that can be exploited with little risk. When the conciliatory methods are suddenly abandoned and the war arrives the autocratic leaders are often surprised and then conclude that the other side planned the war from the beginning.\n\nMost of the book describes specific conflicts that are borderline cases where critical features might be expected to show up. The following presents some of the conflicts mentioned and Weart's arguments for why they are not wars between well-established liberal democracies.\n\nWeart finds that nations have often tried to spread their political system to other nations. He finds many failed attempts to impose democracy by military intervention. For example, during the early part of the 20th century the United States sent soldiers to many nations in Central America in order to hold free elections, but with little long-term success. Those attempts that succeeded, like the occupied Japan after World War II, involved drastic change of the whole political culture. Weart argues that it is generally better to spread democracy by diplomacy and by slowly promoting internal political change.\n\nReviews of the book have ranged from positive to negative.\n\nOne is that Weart makes no attempt to use statistics to prove that the findings are statistically significant. This would be very difficult to do if including all of human history. The many statistical studies on this subject have almost always limited themselves to the period after 1815. For this period there are prefabricated data sets available which lists for example all battle deaths for all nations. Weart instead uses a well-tried method often used by historians: comparative case studies. Especially by looking at many ambiguous cases it is possible to sift out a set of features that decide if a pair of regimes makes war or avoids it.\n\nSome find Weart's use of sources questionable, in particular regarding the conflicts in antiquity: He excludes the earlier wars of Rome, including the Punic Wars, stating that there are no primary sources and no reliable secondary sources, for example by a historian who could understand Punic, from Carthage, making it impossible to determine the exact form of government at the start of these wars. Yet he uses Xenophon for other conflicts, who has also been doubted as a reliable source, although not for the same reason. Also, many modern classicists agree that Rome and Carthage were oligarchic republics, \"which suggests that excluding them was a largely arbitrary judgment that just happened to leave Weart's central claim intact.\" However, Weart states that there have been some wars between oligarchies, so these wars would add to this list, not disprove his statement.\n\nThe Sicilian Expedition is sometimes mentioned as a war between somewhat democratic states. Some democratic peace researchers have excluded the states in Ancient Greece due to the limited franchise and the use of allotment to select many government leaders. As noted earlier, Weart classifies Athens as a democracy and argues that this war was actually an example of a war between a democracy and an oligarchy. However, he also states \"The possibility that the Athenians were wrong suggests a qualification to our rule. Instead of saying that well-established democracies do not make war on their own kind, perhaps we should say that they do not make war on other states they \"perceive\" to be democracies.\" Critics argue that there is no ancient evidence for this perception, and that the major source on Syracuse democracy is Thucydides, the Athenian. Weart states Aristotle (an Athenian metic), the only scholar who ever possessed the documents required to study the constitution of Syracuse, carefully avoided calling Syracuse a democracy. One of the main reason for the Sicilian Expedition was that Syracuse was reported to have violent factional strife. Help from an inside group was essential since the Greeks lacked effective siege machinery and the expedition was ill-suited for the alternative long wait in order to starve the defenders. In every other known case when cities were betrayed to an Athenian army, it was by a democratic faction. Furthermore, scholars have argued that Thucydides had a distaste of democracy which affected his descriptions and evaluations. Weart's argument regarding the Sicilian Expedition is similar to the position of the prominent scholar G.E.M. de Ste. Croix.\n\nThe same review also includes a list of possible wars between Greek oligarchies, including the recurrent wars between Sparta and Argos. Weart mentions these wars in a footnote with references where he states that Argos was a democracy.\n\nJM Owen, in a generally friendly review, questions Weart's conclusion that universal democracy will mean lasting peace. If Weart's explanation for the democratic peace is true and this also depends on perception, then democratic leaders may misperceive each other as authoritarian. More seriously, if the outgroup of oligarchs disappears, what will prevent the democracies from dividing into a new ingroup and outgroup? (Weart later suggested there would be a tendency to promote an internal outgroup such as criminals, perverts, or terrorists.)\n\nThere are many other proposed explanations for the democratic peace. For example, a game-theoretic explanation for the democratic peace is that the public and the open debate in democracies send clear and reliable information regarding the intentions to other states. In contrast, it is difficult to know the intentions of nondemocratic leaders, what effect concessions will have, and if promises will be kept. Thus there will be mistrust and unwillingness to make concessions if at least one of the parties in a dispute is a nondemocracy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3725072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3725072", "title": "Newberry Opera House", "text": "Newberry Opera House\n\nThe Newberry Opera House, located in Newberry, South Carolina, is a fully restored historic building that is a live-performance space for popular artists, touring theatre companies, and local organizations. It is listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1969.\n\nDesigned in the French Gothic style, the first floor of the building was used by the town government for offices, a jail, and the fire company, which had one engine there. The upper floor was designed as a theater and supporting spaces. For years it attracted national touring companies, individual performers and a variety of theatre acts. It later was adapted also for use as a movie theater, but showed its last movie in 1952. It was restored beginning in 1998, in a project that included an addition to enable its use for full theatrical productions.\n\nThe building was designed in the French Gothic style as both a place of entertainment and as a seat of government for the city. The building, completed in 1881 and dedicated in 1882, had a clock tower topped with a garfish weather vane.\n\nThe original design called for the first floor to house the fire engine room, town council chambers, a clerk's office, a police officer, and three jail cells. The second floor contained a hall with 426 seats, 53 by in size. Also on this floor were a ticket office, a \"green room\", a cloakroom, and three dressing rooms. Drop curtains and seven scenes or sets for the stage were available. One scene, a landscape, survived to the late 20th century.\n\nThe Opera House quickly became known as \"the entertainment center of the Midlands\". Touring companies of New York City plays, minstrel and variety shows, famed vocalists and lecturers, magicians and mind readers, novelty acts and boxing exhibitions all were featured there. It was used not only by professional performers, but also by the community for meetings, dances, college commencement exercises, and musicals. Notable artists, such as Edwin Booth, John Barrymore and his family, and Tallulah Bankhead are known to have performed there.\n\nThe first film shown there was \"Birth of a Nation\" (1915), a silent movie, and others followed. The early Edison \"Talkies,\" using a phonograph record for sound, were introduced in the 1920s. Slowly, movies replaced the stage shows. In the 1920s, the Opera House was remodeled as a movie theater.\n\nIn 1952, after the showing of \"The Outlaw\", the Opera House was closed as a movie theater. During the movie era, the original horseshoe-shaped balcony was reduced in size, this restricted seating across the back of the auditorium to blacks only; the state had racial segregation in facilities. The city added an outdoor open stairway which they required blacks to use for entry. Since the mid-1960s, such public facilities have been integrated.\n\nBy 1959, there was talk about tearing the building down, but the hall was still used for community purposes, and the city used the first floor. In 1969, the Newberry Historical Society promoted the preservation of the Opera House, as did several other community groups. In 1970, the building was placed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nAfter the City of Newberry vacated the building in the mid 1990s, the Newberry Opera House Foundation was established to assess restoration. Recognizing the lack of performance spaces in the Midlands, it consulted with experts about a proposed project. Since proceeding with a restoration plan, it has managed fundraising and operations of the facility, which it leases from the city.\n\nThe exterior restoration and window replacement was completed in 1994, and the interior renovation began in 1996. It included restoration of the horseshoe-shaped balcony. An additional was added to the original building in order to create a full theatrical production facility: a new loading dock, an elevator, a second stage for rehearsal, and dressing rooms. The total cost of the renovation was approximately $5.5 million. Architects for the renovation and addition were Craig Gaulden Davis of Greenville, South Carolina.\n\nA variety of theatrical touring companies and live-performance artists from Willie Nelson to Michael Bolton, the Newberry Ballet Guild, South Carolina Opera Company and Asheville Lyric Opera have all performed there, keeping the hall busy. It has a maximum capacity of 426. It is also used for performances by Newberry College and other community institutions.\n\nSouth Carolinians Josh Turner, Edwin McCain, Maurice Williams and the Zodiacs, and Chubby Checker have all performed at the Newberry Opera House in recent years. The Charlie Daniels Band, The Tams, Art Garfunkel, Arlo Guthrie, Puddle of Mudd and Saliva (in 2018) have also performed at the Opera House in recent years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33668409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33668409", "title": "Norfolk Chamber Music Festival", "text": "Norfolk Chamber Music Festival\n\nThe Norfolk Chamber Music Festival, hosted in Norfolk, Connecticut, is believed to be the oldest active summer music festival in North America. Set among the Litchfield Hills of the lower Berkshires, the Festival traces its roots to the Battell family who started hosting summer concerts on the Norfolk town green in the 1880s. Now under the auspices of the Yale University School of Music, the Festival hosts more than 30 concerts each summer featuring professional performers and graduate music students from around the globe. Among many others, guest performers and composers over the years have included the Tokyo String Quartet, Percy Grainger, Fritz Kreisler, Midori, Pinchas Zukerman, Dave Brubeck, Jean Sibelius and Sergei Rachmaninoff. The Norfolk Festival has played an elemental role in the cultivation and development of classical music in America. Today, with its history and setting, it continues to provide the New England experience with an offering of chamber music.\n\nRobbins Battell (1819–1895), the seventh son of a wealthy Norfolk, CT family, was a generous patron of music as well as a skilled amateur flutist and composer. After graduating from Yale University in 1839, he returned to Norfolk to manage the family business enterprises. This reached New York City and beyond and generated a vast wealth that allowed him to become an important philanthropist. Passionate about the musical life of the community, he created a singing school and conducted concerts of the Litchfield County Musical Association in Norfolk and neighboring Winsted. He conducted a performance of the Hallelujah Chorus to celebrate the centennial of the county in 1851. As a composer, he wrote hymns and choral arrangements, and set a great deal of poetry to music. Robbins was also concerned about the economy of his home town. To attract visitors and tourists, he built a hotel and, beginning in the 1880s, financed a week-long series of concerts on the green. This concert series became what is now known as the Norfolk Festival.\n\nRobbins’ daughter, Ellen (1851–1939), continued her father’s legacy of bringing music to Norfolk. In 1895 she married Carl Stoeckel (1858–1925), son of Gustave Stoeckel, who was awarded the first Doctor of Music degree at Yale. After their marriage, in memory of Ellen’s father, Robbins, Carl and Ellen started the Litchfield County Choral Union which continues to perform at the Norfolk Festival to this day. Under Carl and Ellen, Norfolk soon became the first internationally known classical music festival in America. The Stoeckels assumed the entire expense of the concerts which took place on their estate. These concerts rapidly became extravagant affairs with parties and picnics and were among the most popular summer social events in New England. They recruited a 70-piece orchestra of musicians from the New York Philharmonic and Metropolitan Opera, and paid for a special train to transport the instrumentalists to the Litchfield Hills.\n\nIn 1906, to accommodate the ever-growing crowds at the Festival, the couple built a concert hall known, then as now, as the Music Shed. Carl and Ellen Stoeckel’s philanthropy extended to presenting the festivals and concerts free of charge. They sought no public recognition for their role; Ellen listened to the concerts from a secluded window above the Music Shed stage while Carl quietly entered from the side and stood in the doorway. They commissioned new works from many of the leading composers of their time and invited them to conduct their own premieres. Sibelius, for example, composed his tone poem \"The Oceanides\" for the Stoeckels and conducted it in the Music Shed during his only trip to the United States on June 4, 1915. The autograph manuscript is now in the Music Library at Yale University.\n\nWhen Ellen Battell Stoeckel died in 1939 with no surviving children, she stipulated in her will that her estate was to be used in perpetuity for the “benefit and development of the School of Music of Yale University and for extending said University’s courses in music, art, and literature.” The Yale Summer School of Music was established in 1941. Since that time, the Norfolk Chamber Music Festival has played host to thousands of emerging young professional musicians. Today the Festival offers intensive tuition-free programs each summer to approximately eighty students in chamber music, new music and choral repertoire.\n\nDesigned by New York architect, E.K. Rossiter, the Music Shed existed first as a separate prototype structure modeled after Steinway Hall in New York. A test concert was given in 1904. The success of the experimental hall led to the construction of the Music Shed which was built for the Litchfield County Choral Union and opened in 1906. The Shed had to be enlarged due to the number of chorus and audience members and, after an expansion in 1910, it could accommodate a chorus of 425 and an audience of 1,500. The Shed is built of cedar and lined with redwood that was hand-picked and imported from California. The building’s extraordinary acoustics, not to mention the exquisite glow of its interior can be attributed to the redwood. Initially tickets were sold, but the Stoeckels eventually decided that events in the Music Shed would be by invitation only. Movie stars, politicians, high society and professional musicians began to covet invitations from the prestigious Battells. By the beginning of the first world war, the Music Shed was one of the country’s most sought-out venues and a premier concert hall in New England.\n\nFrederick Stock\n\nLeopold Damrosch\n\nLillian Nordica\n\nEmma Eames\n\nLouise Homer\n\nFrieda Hempel\n\nAlma Gluck\n\nFritz Kreisler\n\nNicholas McGegan\n\nHoratio Parker\n\nGeorge Chadwick\n\nMaud Powell\n\nSergei Rachmaninov\n\nRalph Vaughan Williams (conducted premiere of Pastoral Symphony)\n\nJean Sibelius (conducted the premiere of \"The Oceanides\")\n\nMax Bruch\n\nSamuel Coleridge-Taylor\n\nDave Brubeck\n\nPercy Grainger\n\nRichard Stoltzman\n\nFrederica von Stade\n\nMidori\n\nDawn Upshaw\n\nPinchas Zukerman\n\nTokyo String Quartet\n\nAnne Havemeyer\n\nA. Havemeyer & R. Dance. \"The Magnificent Battells\" (Norfolk: Norfolk Hist. Soc., 2006)\n\nA. Falk. \"A Century of Music in the Shed, 1906-2006.\" (Norfolk: Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Program Book, 2006)\n\nhttp://www.yalealumnimagazine.com/issues/02_10/old_yale.html\n\nhttp://music.yale.edu\n\nhttp://www.tokyoquartet.com\nEllen Battell Stoeckel Last Will and Testament\n\n"}
{"id": "302171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302171", "title": "Obscene phone call", "text": "Obscene phone call\n\nAn obscene phone call, as the term is commonly used, is an unsolicited telephone call where a person derives sexual pleasure by using sexual or foul language to someone, who may be known to them or who may be a complete stranger. (There are many varieties of consensual sexual phone calls.) Making obscene telephone calls for sexual pleasure is known as \"telephone scatologia\" and is considered a form of exhibitionism. It is usually classed as a paraphilia from a psychiatric viewpoint, in the DSM under the heading \"Paraphilias Not Otherwise Specified\". Related psychiatric terms (such as \"coprophonia\") were coined in Australia, the U.S., and Germany; most of the pertinent literature is North American. From the viewpoint of the recipient of the calls, obscene calls may be considered to be either a form of sexual harassment or a form of stalking, or both. In some US states, making obscene telephone calls is a Class 1 Misdemeanor. In the United Kingdom, obscene phone calls are punishable by a fine of up to £5000 or up to six months in prison under the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act of 1994.\n\nGenerally, unwilling recipients of obscene phone calls are advised to simply hang up on obscene callers, and to report the incident to the telephone company and/or the police. Even when Caller ID is not shown, calls are logged by the telephone company, so the perpetrator's phone number can be discovered. However, many people who regularly engage in obscene phone calls use payphones or prepaid cell phones, and in these cases, a more extensive investigation is necessary.\n\nThe demographic that most commonly commits obscene phone calls ranges from the age of 12 to 16 years, with an average of 14 years of age. Often they are emotionally or behaviorally maladjusted and have shown previous signs of sexual abuse, as well as having already committed sexual abuse. Obscene phone callers are often male, feel inadequate, have feelings of isolation, have trouble forming relationships and consider making obscene phone calls to be the only way that they can sexually express themselves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12848808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12848808", "title": "Oswald Tesimond", "text": "Oswald Tesimond\n\nOswald Tesimond (1563 – 23 August 1636) was a Jesuit born in either Northumberland or York who, while not a direct conspirator, had some knowledge of the Gunpowder Plot beforehand.\n\nHe was educated in York, in the Royal School of William and Mary in the Horse Fayre, which cost no money to attend. Guy Fawkes, Edward Oldcorne and brothers Christopher and John Wright were among Tesimond's classmates, all of whom would become involved in the Gunpowder Plot. In 1580, at the age of seventeen, he entered English College in Rome. After three years of philosophy, Tesimond, with from the cardinal protector, Giovanni Morone joined the Society of Jesus in April 1584.\n\nTesimond spent most of his adult life in Italy, under the name of Philip Beaumont, (Beamond, Bémont). Later, among other things, Tesimond studied theology in Messina, where he afterwards taught philosophy. He was ordained, some time before he left on the English Mission, in November 1587. He arrived at Gravesend on 9 March 1598. Tesimond worked in England under the name \"Father Greenway\". For eight years he then worked with Edward Oldcorne in Worcestershire and Warwickshire. He was professed as a Jesuit on 28 October 1603.\n\nHe would later become somewhat involved in the Gunpowder Plot. He effectively documented his experiences in a narrative which he wrote sometime after. He lived the later part of his life in various places, including Saint-Omer and Naples, where he died on 23 August 1636 at age 73.\n\nOswald Tesimond played a small role in the Gunpowder plot; while not directly involved, he knew of the plot from the confessional, and the motives of the conspirators. It is a near-certainty that the actual plot was divulged to Tesimond by Robert Catesby, someone who was deeply involved. Tesimond, after gaining the knowledge, subsequently revealed the plot to his Jesuit superior, Henry Garnet, in confession. Garnet judged that he had received this information under the seal of the confessional, and that canon law forbade him to repeat it, but urged Tesimond to dissuade Catesby.\n\nWith the knowledge he possessed, Tesimond and Garnet decided to give religious consolations to the conspirators. They both did this despite the nature of the plot, which involved treason; obviously, their choice of keeping their knowledge secret constituted a violation of the law. He gave these consolations on 6 November 1605 at Huddington, after they had returned from London. \n\nSir Edward Coke conducted the prosecution for the government – an easy one, since the conspirators had no legal representation – and through his speeches, presented the plot as a Jesuit conspiracy. Thomas Wintour, at his later execution, cleared all Jesuits (Tesimond specifically and most especially), from any involvement, counseling or advising regarding the plot.\n\nTesimond's arrest warrant was sworn out on 15 January 1606, describing him in detail: \n\nTesimond was able to escape arrest. He evaded the constables of London, then made his way to safe houses in Essex and Suffolk. He then proceeded to sail to Calais among a cargo of dead pigs by passing as the owner of the load. He then went to Boulogne, and then on to Saint-Omer.\n\nTesimond, after escaping arrest, spent some years in Saint-Omer. He wrote a narrative based on the happenings of the Gunpowder Plot. Written in Italian, Tesimond's narrative probably comprises one of the most detailed and complete accounts of the plot itself. It may have been based on another Latin account of an unknown and unnamed secular priest. The narrative was sent to Rome to better inform the Jesuit authorities.\n\nLater, from the year 1617, Tesimond was prefect of studies and consulter in Messina. He held this position there for many years, among time spent in Rome during the most of 1621, and among other minor occupations. After some time there, he moved to Naples, Italy, where he would die in 1636. This was documented in a letter by Sir Edwin Rich to James I of England, which warned the king against accepting any gift he might receive, which might consist of poisoned clothing from Tesimond; in England, vigilance was still elevated after the events that transpired following the Gunpowder Plot. \n"}
{"id": "25008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25008", "title": "Prisoner of war", "text": "Prisoner of war\n\nA prisoner of war (POW) is a person, whether combatant or non-combatant, who is held in custody by a belligerent power during or immediately after an armed conflict. The earliest recorded usage of the phrase \"prisoner of war\" dates to 1660.\n\nBelligerents hold prisoners of war in custody for a range of legitimate and illegitimate reasons, such as isolating them from enemy combatants still in the field (releasing and repatriating them in an orderly manner after hostilities), demonstrating military victory, punishing them, prosecuting them for war crimes, exploiting them for their labour, recruiting or even conscripting them as their own combatants, collecting military and political intelligence from them, or indoctrinating them in new political or religious beliefs.\n\nFor most of human history, depending on the culture of the victors, enemy combatants on the losing side in a battle who had surrendered and been taken as a prisoner of war could expect to be either slaughtered or enslaved. The first Roman gladiators were prisoners of war and were named according to their ethnic roots such as Samnite, Thracian, and the Gaul (Gallus). Homer's \"Iliad\" describes Greek and Trojan soldiers offering rewards of wealth to opposing forces who have defeated them on the battlefield in exchange for mercy, but their offers are not always accepted; see Lycaon for example.\n\nTypically, little distinction was made between enemy combatants and enemy civilians, although women and children were more likely to be spared. Sometimes, the purpose of a battle, if not a war, was to capture women, a practice known as \"raptio\"; the Rape of the Sabines was a large mass abduction by the founders of Rome. Typically women had no rights, and were held legally as chattel.\n\nIn the fourth century AD, Bishop Acacius of Amida, touched by the plight of Persian prisoners captured in a recent war with the Roman Empire, who were held in his town under appalling conditions and destined for a life of slavery, took the initiative of ransoming them, by selling his church's precious gold and silver vessels, and letting them return to their country. For this he was eventually canonized.\n\nDuring Childeric's siege and blockade of Paris in 464, the nun Geneviève (later canonised as the city's patron saint) pleaded with the Frankish king for the welfare of prisoners of war and met with a favourable response. Later, Clovis I liberated captives after Genevieve urged him to do so.\n\nMany French prisoners of war were killed during the Battle of Agincourt in 1415. This was done in retaliation for the French killing of the boys and other non-combatants handling the baggage and equipment of the army, and because the French were attacking again and Henry was afraid that they would break through and free the prisoners to fight again.\n\nIn the later Middle Ages, a number of religious wars aimed to not only defeat but eliminate their enemies. In Christian Europe, the extermination of heretics was considered desirable. Examples include the 13th century Albigensian Crusade and the Northern Crusades. When asked by a Crusader how to distinguish between the Catholics and Cathars once they'd taken the city of Béziers, the Papal Legate Arnaud Amalric famously replied, \"Kill them all, God will know His own\".\n\nLikewise, the inhabitants of conquered cities were frequently massacred during the Crusades against the Muslims in the 11th and 12th centuries. Noblemen could hope to be ransomed; their families would have to send to their captors large sums of wealth commensurate with the social status of the captive.\n\nIn feudal Japan there was no custom of ransoming prisoners of war, who were for the most part summarily executed.\nThe expanding Mongol Empire was famous for distinguishing between cities or towns that surrendered, where the population were spared but required to support the conquering Mongol army, and those that resisted, where their city was ransacked and destroyed, and all the population killed. In Termez, on the Oxus: \"all the people, both men and women, were driven out onto the plain, and divided in accordance with their usual custom, then they were all slain\".\n\nThe Aztecs were constantly at war with neighbouring tribes and groups, with the goal of this constant warfare being to collect live prisoners for sacrifice. For the re-consecration of Great Pyramid of Tenochtitlan in 1487, \"between 10,000 and 80,400 persons\" were sacrificed.\nDuring the early Muslim conquests, Muslims routinely captured large number of prisoners. Aside from those who converted, most were ransomed or enslaved. Christians who were captured during the Crusades, were usually either killed or sold into slavery if they could not pay a ransom. During his lifetime, Muhammad made it the responsibility of the Islamic government to provide food and clothing, on a reasonable basis, to captives, regardless of their religion; however if the prisoners were in the custody of a person, then the responsibility was on the individual. The freeing of prisoners was highly recommended as a charitable act.\n\nThe 1648 Peace of Westphalia, which ended the Thirty Years' War, established the rule that prisoners of war should be released without ransom at the end of hostilities and that they should be allowed to return to their homelands.\nThere also evolved the right of \"parole\", French for \"discourse\", in which a captured officer surrendered his sword and gave his word as a gentleman in exchange for privileges. If he swore not to escape, he could gain better accommodations and the freedom of the prison. If he swore to cease hostilities against the nation who held him captive, he could be repatriated or exchanged but could not serve against his former captors in a military capacity.\n\nEarly historical narratives of captured colonial Europeans, including perspectives of literate women captured by the indigenous peoples of North America, exist in some number. The writings of Mary Rowlandson, captured in the brutal fighting of King Philip's War, are an example. Such narratives enjoyed some popularity, spawning a genre of the captivity narrative, and had lasting influence on the body of early American literature, most notably through the legacy of James Fenimore Cooper's \"Last of the Mohicans\". Some Native Americans continued to capture Europeans and use them both as labourers and bargaining chips into the 19th century; see for example John R. Jewitt, an Englishman who wrote a memoir about his years as a captive of the Nootka people on the Pacific Northwest coast from 1802–1805.\n\nThe earliest known purposely built prisoner-of-war camp was established at Norman Cross, England in 1797 to house the increasing number of prisoners from the French Revolutionary Wars and the Napoleonic Wars. The average prison population was about 5,500 men. The lowest number recorded was 3,300 in October 1804 and 6,272 on 10 April 1810 was the highest number of prisoners recorded in any official document. Norman Cross was intended to be a model depot providing the most humane treatment of prisoners of war. The British government went to great lengths to provide food of a quality at least equal to that available to locals. The senior officer from each quadrangle was permitted to inspect the food as it was delivered to the prison to ensure it was of sufficient quality. Despite the generous supply and quality of food, some prisoners died of starvation after gambling away their rations. Most of the men held in the prison were low-ranking soldiers and sailors, including midshipmen and junior officers, with a small number of privateers. About 100 senior officers and some civilians \"of good social standing\", mainly passengers on captured ships and the wives of some officers, were given \"parole d'honneur\" outside the prison, mainly in Peterborough although some further afield in Northampton, Plymouth, Melrose and Abergavenny. They were afforded the courtesy of their rank within English society.\nThe Leipzig citizen Rochlitz remarked in his account about the Battle of Leipzig, that large crowds of French POWs were held on fields outside the town, begged passersby for food, and that most of them didn't survive this ordeal.\n\nThe extensive period of conflict during the American Revolutionary War and Napoleonic Wars (1793–1815), followed by the Anglo-American War of 1812, led to the emergence of a cartel system for the exchange of prisoners, even while the belligerents were at war. A cartel was usually arranged by the respective armed service for the exchange of like-ranked personnel. The aim was to achieve a reduction in the number of prisoners held, while at the same time alleviating shortages of skilled personnel in the home country.\n\nAt the start of the civil war a system of paroles operated. Captives agreed not to fight until they were officially exchanged. Meanwhile, they were held in camps run by their own army where they were paid but not allowed to perform any military duties. The system of exchanges collapsed in 1863 when the Confederacy refused to exchange black prisoners. In the late summer of 1864, a year after the Dix-Hill Cartel was suspended; Confederate officials approached Union General Benjamin Butler, Union Commissioner of Exchange, about resuming the cartel and including the black prisoners. Butler contacted Grant for guidance on the issue, and Grant responded to Butler on August 18, 1864 with his now famous statement. He rejected the offer, stating in essence, that the Union could afford to leave their men in captivity, the Confederacy could not. After that about 56,000 of the 409,000 POWs died in prisons during the American Civil War, accounting for nearly 10% of the conflict's fatalities. Of the 45,000 Union prisoners of war confined in Camp Sumter, located near Andersonville, Georgia, 13,000 (28%) died. At Camp Douglas in Chicago, Illinois, 10% of its Confederate prisoners died during one cold winter month; and Elmira Prison in New York state, with a death rate of 25% (2,963), nearly equalled that of Andersonville.\n\nDuring the 19th century, there were increased efforts to improve the treatment and processing of prisoners. As a result of these emerging conventions, a number of international conferences were held, starting with the Brussels Conference of 1874, with nations agreeing that it was necessary to prevent inhumane treatment of prisoners and the use of weapons causing unnecessary harm. Although no agreements were immediately ratified by the participating nations, work was continued that resulted in new conventions being adopted and becoming recognized as international law that specified that prisoners of war be treated humanely and diplomatically.\n\nChapter II of the Annex to the 1907 Hague Convention \"IV – The Laws and Customs of War on Land\" covered the treatment of prisoners of war in detail. These provisions were further expanded in the 1929 Geneva Convention on the Prisoners of War and were largely revised in the Third Geneva Convention in 1949.\n\nArticle 4 of the Third Geneva Convention protects captured military personnel, some guerrilla fighters, and certain civilians. It applies from the moment a prisoner is captured until he or she is released or repatriated. One of the main provisions of the convention makes it illegal to torture prisoners and states that a prisoner can only be required to give their name, date of birth, rank and service number (if applicable).\n\nThe ICRC has a special role to play, with regards to international humanitarian law, in restoring and maintaining family contact in times of war, in particular concerning the right of prisoners of war and internees to send and receive letters and cards (Geneva Convention (GC) III, art.71 and GC IV, art.107).\n\nHowever, nations vary in their dedication to following these laws, and historically the treatment of POWs has varied greatly. During World War II, Imperial Japan and Nazi Germany (towards Soviet POWs and Western Allied commandos) were notorious for atrocities against prisoners of war. The German military used the Soviet Union's refusal to sign the Geneva Convention as a reason for not providing the necessities of life to Soviet POWs; and the Soviets similarly killed Axis prisoners or used them as slave labour. The Germans also routinely executed Western Allied commandos captured behind German lines per the Commando Order. North Korean and North and South Vietnamese forces routinely killed or mistreated prisoners taken during those conflicts.\n\nTo be entitled to prisoner-of-war status, captured persons must be lawful combatants entitled to combatant's privilege—which gives them immunity from punishment for crimes constituting lawful acts of war such as killing enemy combatants. To qualify under the Third Geneva Convention, a combatant must be part of a chain of command, wear a \"fixed distinctive marking, visible from a distance\", bear arms openly, and have conducted military operations according to the laws and customs of war. (The Convention recognizes a few other groups as well, such as \"[i]nhabitants of a non-occupied territory, who on the approach of the enemy spontaneously take up arms to resist the invading forces, without having had time to form themselves into regular armed units\".)\n\nThus, uniforms and/or badges are important in determining prisoner-of-war status; and \"francs-tireurs\", terrorists, saboteurs, mercenaries, and spies do not qualify because they do not always follow the laws and customs of war and therefore they fall under the category of unlawful combatants. In practice, these criteria are rarely interpreted strictly. Guerrillas, for example, usually do not wear a uniform or carry arms openly, but captured guerrillas are often granted POW status.\n\nThe criteria are applied primarily to \"international\" armed conflicts; in civil wars, insurgents are often treated as traitors or criminals by government forces, and are sometimes executed. However, in the American Civil War, both sides treated captured troops as POWs, presumably out of reciprocity, although the Union regarded Confederate personnel as separatist rebels. However, guerrillas and other irregular combatants generally cannot expect to receive benefits from both civilian and military status simultaneously.\n\nUnder the Third Geneva Convention, prisoners of war (POW) must be:\n\n\nIn addition, if wounded or sick on the battlefield, the prisoner will receive help from the International Committee of the Red Cross.\n\nWhen a country is responsible for breaches of prisoner of war rights, those accountable will be punished accordingly. An example of this is the Nuremberg and Tokyo Trials. German and Japanese military commanders were prosecuted for preparing and initiating a war of aggression, murder, ill treatment, and deportation of individuals, and genocide during World War II. Most were executed or sentenced to life in prison for their crimes.\n\nThe United States Military Code of Conduct was promulgated in 1955 via under President Dwight D. Eisenhower to serve as a moral code for United States service members who have been taken prisoner. It was created primarily in response to the breakdown of leadership and organization, specifically when U.S. forces were POWs during the Korean War.\n\nWhen a military member is taken prisoner, the Code of Conduct reminds them that the chain of command is still in effect (the highest ranking service member eligible for command, regardless of service branch, is in command), and requires them to support their leadership. The Code of Conduct also requires service members to resist giving information to the enemy (beyond identifying themselves, that is, \"name, rank, serial number\"), receiving special favors or parole, or otherwise providing their enemy captors aid and comfort.\n\nSince the Vietnam War, the official U.S. military term for enemy POWs is EPW (Enemy Prisoner of War). This name change was introduced in order to distinguish between enemy and U.S. captives.\n\nIn 2000, the U.S. military replaced the designation \"Prisoner of War\" for captured American personnel with \"Missing-Captured\". A January 2008 directive states that the reasoning behind this is since \"Prisoner of War\" is the international legal recognized status for such people there is no need for any individual country to follow suit. This change remains relatively unknown even among experts in the field and \"Prisoner of War\" remains widely used in the Pentagon which has a \"POW/Missing Personnel Office\" and awards the Prisoner of War Medal.\n\nDuring World War I, about eight million men surrendered and were held in POW camps until the war ended. All nations pledged to follow the Hague rules on fair treatment of prisoners of war, and in general the POWs had a much higher survival rate than their peers who were not captured. Individual surrenders were uncommon; usually a large unit surrendered all its men. At Tannenberg 92,000 Russians surrendered during the battle. When the besieged garrison of Kaunas surrendered in 1915, 20,000 Russians became prisoners. Over half the Russian losses were prisoners as a proportion of those captured, wounded or killed. About 3.3 million men became prisoners.\n\nThe German Empire held 2.5 million prisoners; Russia held 2.9 million, and Britain and France held about 720,000, mostly gained in the period just before the Armistice in 1918. The US held 48,000. The most dangerous moment for POW's was the act of surrender, when helpless soldiers were sometimes mistakenly shot down. Once prisoners reached a POW camp conditions were better (and often much better than in World War II), thanks in part to the efforts of the International Red Cross and inspections by neutral nations.\n\nThere was however much harsh treatment of POWs in Germany, as recorded by the American ambassador to Germany (prior to America's entry into the war), James W. Gerard, who published his findings in \"My Four Years in Germany\". Even worse conditions are reported in the book \"Escape of a Princess Pat\" by the Canadian George Pearson. It was particularly bad in Russia, where starvation was common for prisoners and civilians alike; a quarter of the over 2 million POWs held there died. Nearly 375,000 of the 500,000 Austro-Hungarian prisoners of war taken by Russians perished in Siberia from smallpox and typhus. In Germany, food was short, but only 5% died.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire often treated prisoners of war poorly. Some 11,800 British soldiers, most of them Indians, became prisoners after the five-month Siege of Kut, in Mesopotamia, in April 1916. Many were weak and starved when they surrendered and 4,250 died in captivity.\n\nDuring the Sinai and Palestine campaign 217 Australian and unknown numbers of British, New Zealand and Indian soldiers were captured by Ottoman Empire forces. About 50% of the Australian prisoners were light horsemen including 48 missing believed captured on 1 May 1918 in the Jordan Valley. Australian Flying Corps pilots and observers were captured in the Sinai Peninsula, Palestine and the Levant. One third of all Australian prisoners were captured on Gallipoli including the crew of the submarine AE2 which made a passage through the Dardanelles in 1915. Forced marches and crowded railway journeys preceded years in camps where disease, poor diet and inadequate medical facilities prevailed. About 25% of other ranks died, many from malnutrition, while only one officer died.\n\nThe most curious case came in Russia where the Czechoslovak Legion of Czechoslovak prisoners (from the Austro-Hungarian army): they were released in 1917, armed themselves, briefly culminating into a military and diplomatic force during the Russian Civil War.\n\nAt the end of the war in 1918 there were believed to be 140,000 British prisoners of war in Germany, including thousands of internees held in neutral Switzerland. The first British prisoners were released and reached Calais on 15 November. Plans were made for them to be sent via Dunkirk to Dover and a large reception camp was established at Dover capable of housing 40,000 men, which could later be used for demobilisation.\n\nOn 13 December 1918, the armistice was extended and the Allies reported that by 9 December 264,000 prisoners had been repatriated. A very large number of these had been released \"en masse\" and sent across Allied lines without any food or shelter. This created difficulties for the receiving Allies and many released prisoners died from exhaustion. The released POWs were met by cavalry troops and sent back through the lines in lorries to reception centres where they were refitted with boots and clothing and dispatched to the ports in trains.\n\nUpon arrival at the receiving camp the POWs were registered and \"boarded\" before being dispatched to their own homes. All commissioned officers had to write a report on the circumstances of their capture and to ensure that they had done all they could to avoid capture. Each returning officer and man was given a message from King George V, written in his own hand and reproduced on a lithograph. It read as follows:\nWhile the Allied prisoners were sent home at the end of the war, the same treatment was not granted to Central Powers prisoners of the Allies and Russia, many of whom had to serve as forced labour, e.g. in France, until 1920. They were released after many approaches by the ICRC to the Allied Supreme Council.\n\nHistorian Niall Ferguson, in addition to figures from Keith Lowe, tabulated the total death rate for POWs in World War II as follows:\n\nThe Empire of Japan, which had signed but never ratified the 1929 Geneva Convention on Prisoners of War, did not treat prisoners of war in accordance with international agreements, including provisions of the Hague Conventions, either during the Second Sino-Japanese War or during the Pacific War, because the Japanese viewed surrender as dishonorable. Moreover, according to a directive ratified on 5 August 1937 by Hirohito, the constraints of the Hague Conventions were explicitly removed on Chinese prisoners.\n\nPrisoners of war from China, the United States, Australia, Britain, Canada, India, the Netherlands, New Zealand, and the Philippines held by the Japanese armed forces were subject to murder, beatings, summary punishment, brutal treatment, forced labour, medical experimentation, starvation rations, poor medical treatment and cannibalism. The most notorious use of forced labour was in the construction of the Burma–Thailand Death Railway. After 20 March 1943, the Imperial Navy was under orders to execute all prisoners taken at sea.\n\nAccording to the findings of the Tokyo Tribunal, the death rate of Western prisoners was 27.1%, seven times that of POWs under the Germans and Italians. The death rate of Chinese was much higher. Thus, while 37,583 prisoners from the United Kingdom, Commonwealth, and Dominions, 28,500 from the Netherlands, and 14,473 from the United States were released after the surrender of Japan, the number for the Chinese was only 56. The 27,465 United States Army and United States Army Air Forces POWs in the Pacific Theater had a 40.4% death rate. The War Ministry in Tokyo issued an order at the end of the war to kill all surviving POWs.\n\nNo direct access to the POWs was provided to the International Red Cross. Escapes among Caucasian prisoners were almost impossible because of the difficulty of men of Caucasian descent hiding in Asiatic societies.\n\nAllied POW camps and ship-transports were sometimes accidental targets of Allied attacks. The number of deaths which occurred when Japanese \"hell ships\"—unmarked transport ships in which POWs were transported in harsh conditions—were attacked by US Navy submarines was particularly high. Gavan Daws has calculated that \"of all POWs who died in the Pacific War, one in three was killed on the water by friendly fire\". Daves states that 10,800 of the 50,000 POWs shipped by the Japanese were killed at sea while Donald L. Miller states that \"approximately 21,000 Allied POWs died at sea, about 19,000 of them killed by friendly fire.\"\n\nLife in the POW camps was recorded at great risk to themselves by artists such as Jack Bridger Chalker, Philip Meninsky, Ashley George Old, and Ronald Searle. Human hair was often used for brushes, plant juices and blood for paint, and toilet paper as the \"canvas\". Some of their works were used as evidence in the trials of Japanese war criminals.\n\nResearch into the conditions of the camps has been conducted by The Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine.\n\nAfter the French armies surrendered in summer 1940, Germany seized two million French prisoners of war and sent them to camps in Germany. About one third were released on various terms. Of the remainder, the officers and non-commissioned officers were kept in camps and did not work. The privates were sent out to work. About half of them worked for German agriculture, where food supplies were adequate and controls were lenient. The others worked in factories or mines, where conditions were much harsher.\n\nGermany and Italy generally treated prisoners from the British Commonwealth, France, the USA, and other western Allies in accordance with the Geneva Convention, which had been signed by these countries. Consequently, western Allied officers were not usually made to work and some personnel of lower rank were usually compensated, or not required to work either. The main complaints of western Allied prisoners of war in German POW camps—especially during the last two years of the war—concerned shortages of food.\n\nOnly a small proportion of western Allied POWs who were Jews—or whom the Nazis believed to be Jewish—were killed as part of the Holocaust or were subjected to other antisemitic policies. For example, Major Yitzhak Ben-Aharon, a Palestinian Jew who had enlisted in the British Army, and who was captured by the Germans in Greece in 1941, experienced four years of captivity under entirely normal conditions for POWs.\n\nHowever, a small number of Allied personnel were sent to concentration camps, for a variety of reasons including being Jewish. As the US historian Joseph Robert White put it: \"An important exception ... is the sub-camp for U.S. POWs at Berga an der Elster, officially called \"Arbeitskommando 625\" [also known as \"Stalag IX-B\"]. Berga was the deadliest work detachment for American captives in Germany. 73 men who participated, or 21 percent of the detachment, perished in two months. 80 of the 350 POWs were Jews.\" Another well-known example was a group of 168 Australian, British, Canadian, New Zealand and US aviators who were held for two months at Buchenwald concentration camp; two of the POWs died at Buchenwald. Two possible reasons have been suggested for this incident: German authorities wanted to make an example of \"Terrorflieger\" (\"terrorist aviators\") and/or these aircrews were classified as spies, because they had been disguised as civilians or enemy soldiers when they were apprehended.\n\nInformation on conditions in the stalags is contradictory depending on the source. Some American POWs claimed the Germans were victims of circumstance and did the best they could, while others accused their captors of brutalities and forced labour. In any case, the prison camps were miserable places where food rations were meager and conditions squalid. One American admitted \"The only difference between the stalags and concentration camps was that we weren't gassed or shot in the former. I do not recall a single act of compassion or mercy on the part of the Germans.\" Typical meals consisted of a bread slice and watery potato soup which, however, was still more substantial than what Soviet POWs or concentration camp inmates received. Another prisoner stated that \"The German plan was to keep us alive, yet weakened enough that we wouldn't attempt escape.\"\n\nAs Soviet ground forces approached some POW camps in early 1945, German guards forced western Allied POWs to walk long distances towards central Germany, often in extreme winter weather conditions. It is estimated that, out of 257,000 POWs, about 80,000 were subject to such marches and up to 3,500 of them died as a result.\n\nIn September 1943 after the Armistice, Italian officers and soldiers that in many places waited for clear superior orders, were arrested by Germans and Italian fascists and taken to German internment camps in Germany or Eastern Europe, where they were held for the duration of World War II. The International Red Cross could do nothing for them, as they were not regarded as POWs, but the prisoners held the status of \"military internees\". Treatment of the prisoners was generally poor. The author Giovannino Guareschi was among those interned and wrote about this time in his life. The book was translated and published as \"My Secret Diary\". He wrote about the hungers of semi-starvation, the casual murder of individual prisoners by guards and how, when they were released (now from a German camp), they found a deserted German town filled with foodstuffs that they (with other released prisoners) ate.. It is estimated that of the 1,070,000 Italians taken prisoner by the Germans, around 40,000 died in detention and more than 13,000 lost their lives during the transportation from the Greek islands to the mainland.\n\nGermany did not apply the same standard of treatment to non-western prisoners, especially many Polish and Soviet POWs who suffered harsh conditions and died in large numbers while in captivity.\n\nBetween 1941 and 1945 the Axis powers took about 5.7 million Soviet prisoners. About one million of them were released during the war, in that their status changed but they remained under German authority. A little over 500,000 either escaped or were liberated by the Red Army. Some 930,000 more were found alive in camps after the war. The remaining 3.3 million prisoners (57.5% of the total captured) died during their captivity. Between the launching of Operation Barbarossa in the summer of 1941 and the following spring, 2.8 million of the 3.2 million Soviet prisoners taken died while in German hands. According to Russian military historian General Grigoriy Krivosheyev, the Axis powers took 4.6 million Soviet prisoners, of whom 1.8 million were found alive in camps after the war and 318,770 were released by the Axis during the war and were then drafted into the Soviet armed forces again. By comparison, 8,348 Western Allied prisoners died in German camps during 1939–45 (3.5% of the 232,000 total).\n\nSome Soviet POWs and forced labourers whom the Germans had transported to Nazi Germany were, on their return to the USSR, treated as traitors and sent to gulag prison-camps.\n\nAccording to some sources, the Soviets captured 3.5 million Axis servicemen (excluding Japanese) of which more than a million died. One specific example is that of the German POWs after the Battle of Stalingrad, where the Soviets captured 91,000 German troops in total (completely exhausted, starving and sick) of whom only 5,000 survived the captivity.\n\nGerman soldiers were kept as forced labour for many years after the war. The last German POWs like Erich Hartmann, the highest-scoring fighter ace in the history of aerial warfare, who had been declared guilty of war crimes but without due process, were not released by the Soviets until 1955, three years after Stalin died.\n\nAs a result of the Soviet invasion of Poland in 1939, hundreds of thousands of Polish soldiers became prisoners of war in the Soviet Union. Thousands of them were executed; over 20,000 Polish military personnel and civilians perished in the Katyn massacre. Out of Anders' 80,000 evacuees from Soviet Union gathered in the United Kingdom only 310 volunteered to return to Poland in 1947.\n\nOut of the 230,000 Polish prisoners of war taken by the Soviet army, only 82,000 survived.\n\nWith the Soviet invasion of Manchuria, in 1945, Japanese soldiers became prisoners in the Soviet Union, where they, just as other Axis POWs, had to work.\n\nThere were stories during the Cold War to the effect that 23,000 Americans who had been held in German POW camps were seized by the Soviets and never repatriated. This myth had been perpetuated after the release of people like John H. Noble. Careful scholarly studies have demonstrated this is a myth based on a misinterpretation of a telegram that was talking about Soviet prisoners held in Italy.\n\nDuring the war, the armies of Western Allied nations such as Australia, Canada, the UK and the US were ordered to treat Axis prisoners strictly in accordance with the Geneva Convention. Some breaches of the Convention took place, however. According to Stephen E. Ambrose, of the roughly 1,000 US combat veterans that he had interviewed, only one admitted to shooting a prisoner, saying that he \"felt remorse, but would do it again\". However, one-third told him they had seen US troops kill German prisoners.\n\nTowards the end of the war in Europe, as large numbers of Axis soldiers surrendered, the US created the designation of Disarmed Enemy Forces (DEF) so as not to treat prisoners as POWs. A lot of these soldiers were kept in open fields in makeshift camps in the Rhine valley (\"Rheinwiesenlager\"). Controversy has arisen about how Eisenhower managed these prisoners (see \"Other Losses\").\n\nAfter the surrender of Germany in May 1945, the POW status of the German prisoners was in many cases maintained, and they were for several years used as forced labour in countries such as the UK and France. Many died when forced to clear minefields in Norway, France etc.; \"by September 1945 it was estimated by the French authorities that two thousand prisoners were being maimed and killed each month in accidents\"\n\nIn 1946, the UK had more than 400,000 German prisoners, many had been transferred from POW camps in the US and Canada. Many of these were for over three years after the German surrender used as forced labour, as a form of \"reparations\". A public debate ensued in the UK, where words such as \"forced labour\", \"slaves\", \"slave labour\" were increasingly used in the media and in the House of Commons. In 1947 the Ministry of Agriculture argued against repatriation of working German prisoners, since by then they made up 25 percent of the land workforce, and they wanted to use them also in 1948.\n\nThe \"London Cage\", an MI19 prisoner of war facility in the UK used for interrogating prisoners before they were sent to prison camps during and immediately after World War II, was subject to allegations of torture.\n\nAfter the German surrender, the International Red Cross was prohibited from providing aid such as food or visiting prisoner camps in Germany. However, after making approaches to the Allies in the autumn of 1945 it was allowed to investigate the camps in the British and French occupation zones of Germany, as well as to provide relief to the prisoners held there. On 4 February 1946, the Red Cross was permitted to visit and assist prisoners also in the US occupation zone of Germany, although only with very small quantities of food. \"During their visits, the delegates observed that German prisoners of war were often detained in appalling conditions. They drew the attention of the authorities to this fact, and gradually succeeded in getting some improvements made\".\n\nThe Allies also shipped POWs between them, with for example 6,000 German officers transferred from Western Allied camps to the Sachsenhausen concentration camp that now was under Soviet Union administration. The US also shipped 740,000 German POWs as forced labourers to France from where newspaper reports told of very bad treatment. Judge Robert H. Jackson, Chief US prosecutor in the Nuremberg trials, in October 1945 told US President Harry S. Truman that the Allies themselves:\nhave done or are doing some of the very things we are prosecuting the Germans for. The French are so violating the Geneva Convention in the treatment of prisoners of war that our command is taking back prisoners sent to them. We are prosecuting plunder and our Allies are practicing it.\n\nHungarians became POWs of the Western Allies. Some of these were, like Germans, used as forced labour in France after the cessation of hostilities.\nAfter the war the POWs were handed over to the Soviets, and after the POWs were transported to the USSR for forced labour. It is called even today in Hungary malenkij robot—little work. András Toma, a Hungarian soldier taken prisoner by the Red Army in 1944, was discovered in a Russian psychiatric hospital in 2000. He was probably the last prisoner of war from World War II to be repatriated.\n\nAlthough thousands of Japanese were taken prisoner, most fought until they were killed or committed suicide. Of the 22,000 Japanese soldiers present at the beginning of the Battle of Iwo Jima, over 20,000 were killed and only 216 were taken prisoner. Of the 30,000 Japanese troops that defended Saipan, fewer than 1,000 remained alive at battle's end. Japanese prisoners sent to camps fared well; however, some Japanese were killed when trying to surrender or were massacred just after they had surrendered (see Allied war crimes during World War II in the Pacific). In some instances, Japanese prisoners were tortured by a variety of methods. A method of torture used by the Chinese National Revolutionary Army (NRA) included suspending the prisoner by the neck in a wooden cage until they died. In very rare cases, some were beheaded by sword, and a severed head was once used as a football by Chinese National Revolutionary Army (NRA) soldiers.\n\nAfter the war, many Japanese were kept on as Japanese Surrendered Personnel until mid-1947 and used as forced labour doing menial tasks, while 35,000 were kept on in arms within their wartime military organisation and under their own officers and used in combat alongside British troops seeking to suppress the independence movements in the Dutch East Indies and French Indochina.\n\nIn 1943, Italy overthrew Mussolini and became a co-belligerent with the Allies. This did not mean any change in status for Italian POWs however, since due to the labour shortages in the UK, Australia and the USA, they were retained as POWs there.\n\nOn 11 February 1945, at the conclusion of the Yalta Conference, the United States and the United Kingdom signed a Repatriation Agreement with the USSR. The interpretation of this Agreement resulted in the forcible repatriation of all Soviets (Operation Keelhaul) regardless of their wishes. The forced repatriation operations took place in 1945–1947.\n\nThe United States handed over 740,000 German prisoners to France, a signatory of the Geneva Convention. The Soviet Union had not signed the Geneva Convention. According to Edward Peterson, the U.S. chose to hand over several hundred thousand German prisoners to the Soviet Union in May 1945 as a \"gesture of friendship\". U.S. forces also refused to accept the surrender of German troops attempting to surrender to them in Saxony and Bohemia, and handed them over to the Soviet Union instead. It is also known that 6000 of the German officers who were sent from camps in the West to the Soviets were subsequently imprisoned in the Sachsenhausen concentration camp, which at the time was one of the NKVD special camp.\n\nDuring the Korean War, the North Koreans developed reputation for severely mistreating prisoners of war (see Crimes against POWs). Their POWs were housed in three camps, according to their potential usefulness to the North Korean army. Peace camps and reform camps were for POWs that were either sympathetic to the cause or who had valued skills that could be useful in the army and thus these enemy soldiers were indoctrinated and sometimes conscripted into the North Korean army. The regular prisoners of war were usually very poorly treated. POWs in peace camps were reportedly treated with more consideration.\n\nIn 1952, the 1952 Inter-Camp P.O.W. Olympics were held during 15 and 27 November 1952, in Pyuktong, North Korea. The Chinese hoped to gain worldwide publicity and while some prisoners refused to participate some 500 P.O.W.s of eleven nationalities took part. They were representative of all the prison camps in North Korea and competed in: football, baseball, softball, basketball, volleyball, track and field, soccer, gymnastics, and boxing. For the P.O.W.s this was also an opportunity to meet with friends from other camps. The prisoners had their own photographers, announcers, even reporters, who after each day's competition published a newspaper, the \"Olympic Roundup\".\n\nOf about 16,500 French soldiers who fought at the Battle of Dien Bien Phu in French Indochina, more than 3,000 were killed in battle, while almost all of the 11,721 men taken prisoner died in the hands of the Viet Minh on death marches to distant POW camps, and in those camps in the last three months of the war.\n\nThe Vietcong and the North Vietnamese Army captured many United States service members as prisoners of war during the Vietnam War, who suffered from mistreatment and torture during the war. Some American prisoners were held in the prison called the Hanoi Hilton.\nCommunist Vietnamese held in custody by South Vietnamese and American forces were also tortured and badly treated. After the war, millions of South Vietnamese servicemen and government workers were sent to \"re-education\" camps where many perished.\n\nLike in previous conflicts, there has been speculation without evidence that there were a handful of American pilots captured by the North Koreans and the North Vietnamese who were transferred to the Soviet Union and were never repatriated.\n\nRegardless of regulations determining treatment to prisoners, violations of their rights continue to be reported. Many cases of POW massacres have been reported in recent times, including October 13 massacre in Lebanon by Syrian forces and June 1990 massacre in Sri Lanka.\n\nIn 1982, during the Falklands War, prisoners were well treated in general by both parties of the conflict, with military commanders dispatching 'enemy' prisoners back to their homelands in record time.\n\nIn 1991, during the Persian Gulf War, American, British, Italian, and Kuwaiti POWs (mostly crew members of downed aircraft and special forces) were tortured by the Iraqi secret police. An American military doctor, Major Rhonda Cornum, a 37-year-old flight surgeon captured when her Blackhawk UH-60 was shot down, was also subjected to sexual abuse.\n\nDuring the 1990s Yugoslav Wars, Serb paramilitary forces supported by JNA forces killed POWs at Vukovar and Škarbrnja while Bosnian Serb forces killed POWs at Srebrenica.\n\nIn 2001, there were reports concerning two POWs that India had taken during the Sino-Indian War, Yang Chen and Shih Liang. The two were imprisoned as spies for three years before being interned in a mental asylum in Ranchi, where they spent the next 38 years under a special prisoner status.<br> The last prisoners of Iran–Iraq War (1980–1988) were exchanged in 2003.\n\nThis article is a list of nations with the highest number of POWs since the start of World War II, listed in descending order. These are also the highest numbers in any war since the Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War entered into force on 19 June 1931. The USSR had not signed the Geneva convention.\n\nMovies & Television\n\nSongs\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\nPrimary sources\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1382374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1382374", "title": "Pushkar Fair", "text": "Pushkar Fair\n\nThe Pushkar Fair, also called the Pushkar Camel Fair or locally as Kartik Mela or Pushkar ka Mela is an annual multi-day livestock fair and cultural fête held in the town of Pushkar (Rajasthan, India). The fair starts with the Hindu calendar month of Kartik and ends on the Kartik Purnima, which typically overlaps with late October and early November in the Gregorian calendar. In 1998, over 1 million visitors came to Pushkar throughout the year. The Pushkar fair alone attracts over 200,000 visitors. \n\nThe Pushkar fair is one of India's largest camel, horse and cattle fairs. Apart from the trading of livestock, it is an important pilgrimage season for Hindus to the Pushkar lake. Pushkar fair has also become a significant tourist attraction for domestic and international travelers, given the cooler season, the abundance of colorful cultural themes. Cultural events and competitions include dances, tug of war between women teams as well as men teams, the \"matka phod\", \"longest moustache\" competition, \"bridal competition\", camel races and others.\n\nThousands of people go to the banks of the Pushkar Lake where the fair takes place. Men trade their livestock, which includes camels, horses, cows, sheep and goats. Rural families shop at the handicraft stalls full of bracelets, clothes, textiles and fabrics. A camel race starts off the festival, with music, songs and exhibitions to follow. Between these events, the most waited for is the test of how the camel is able to bring the items. In order to demonstrate, the men go up on the group of camels one after another.\n\nPushkar is in centre-east part of Rajasthan, on the western side of Aravalli mountains. The nearest airport from Pushkar is Kishangarh Airport in Ajmer, about northeast. Jaipur is well connected with all the major cities in India. Pushkar is about from Ajmer, connected via Pushkar road (Highway 58) which goes over the Aravalli Range mountains. Ajmer is also the nearest major railway station.\n\nThe peak celebrations occur over the last five days from the Kartik ekadashi to Kartik Poornima, the full moon day of Kartik (October–November) in Hindu calendar. This period sees an influx of Hindu pilgrims who attend the fairs, visit the temples and take a dip in the Pushkar lake.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7004399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7004399", "title": "Regensburg lecture", "text": "Regensburg lecture\n\nThe Regensburg lecture or Regensburg address was delivered on 12 September 2006 by Pope Benedict XVI at the University of Regensburg in Germany, where he had once served as a professor of theology. It was entitled \"Faith, Reason and the University — Memories and Reflections\" (). The lecture is considered to be among the most important papal statements on world affairs since John Paul II's 1995 address to the United Nations, and sparked international reactions and controversy.\n\nIn his lecture, the Pope, speaking in German, quoted a passage about Islam made at the end of the 14th century by Byzantine (Eastern Roman) emperor Manuel II Palaiologos. As the English translation of the Pope's lecture was disseminated across the world, the quotation was taken out of context and many Islamic politicians and religious leaders protested against what they saw as an insulting mischaracterization of Islam.\n\nMass street protests were mounted in many Islamic countries. The \"Majlis-e-Shoora\" (Pakistani parliament) unanimously called on the Pope to retract \"this objectionable statement\". The Pope maintained that the comment he had quoted did not reflect his own views. His statement has been included as a footnote in the official text of the lecture available at Vatican website:\nThe controversial comment originally appeared in the seventh of the 26 \"Dialogues Held With A Certain Persian, the Worthy Mouterizes, in Anakara of Galatia\", written in 1391 as an expression of the views of Emperor Manuel II, one of the last Christian rulers before the Fall of Constantinople to the Ottoman Empire in 1453, on such issues as forced conversion, holy war, and the relationship between faith and reason. The passage, in the English translation published by the Vatican, was:\nA better translation of what appeared as key words politically, \"Schlechtes und Inhumanes\", would have been \"bad and inhumane\".\n\nThe pope had consulted a critical edition of this dialogue in the original Greek and with French translation.\n\nThe lecture on faith and reason, with references ranging from ancient Jewish and Greek thinking to Protestant theology and modern secularity, focused mainly on Christianity and what Pope Benedict called the tendency to \"exclude the question of God\" from reason. Islam features in a part of the lecture: the Pope quoted a strong criticism of Islam, a criticism Pope Benedict disclaimed as being stated with an \"unacceptable\" \"startling brusqueness, a brusqueness which leaves us astounded\".\n\nThe author of this criticism was the Byzantine Emperor Manuel II Palaiologos (or Paleologus) in a 1391 dialogue with an \"educated Persian\" (who remained unnamed in all the dialogues), as well as observations on this argument made by Theodore Khoury, the scholar whose edition of the dialog in question the pontiff was referencing. Pope Benedict used Manuel II's argument in order to draw a distinction between a Christian view, as expressed by Manuel II, that \"not acting reasonably is contrary to God's nature\", and an allegedly Islamic view, as explained by Khoury, that God transcends concepts such as rationality, and his will, as Ibn Hazm stated, is not constrained by any principle, including rationality.\n\nAs a part of his explication of this distinction, Pope Benedict referred to a specific aspect of Islam that Manuel II considered irrational, namely the practice of forced conversion. Specifically, the Pope (making clear that they were the Emperor's words, not his own) quoted Manuel II Palaiologos as saying: \"Show me just what Muhammad brought that was new and there you will find things only bad and inhuman, such as his command to spread by the sword the faith he preached.\"\n\nThe pontiff was comparing apparently contradictory passages from the Qur'an, one being that \"There is no compulsion in religion\", the other being that it is acceptable to \"spread the faith through violence\". The pontiff argued the latter teaching to be unreasonable and advocated that religious conversion should take place through the use of reason. His larger point here was that, generally speaking, in Christianity, God is understood to act in accordance with reason, while in Islam, God's absolute transcendence means that \"God is not bound even by his own word\", and can act in ways contrary to reason, including self-contradiction. At the end of his lecture, the Pope said, \"It is to the great logos, to this breadth of reason, that we invite our partners in the dialogue of cultures.\"\n\nQuoted below are the three paragraphs (of sixteen total) which discuss Islam in Pope Benedict's lecture:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn 16 September 2006, Tarcisio Bertone, the Secretary of State of the Holy See, released a declaration explaining that the \"position of the Pope concerning Islam is unequivocally that expressed by the conciliar document \"Nostra aetate\"\" and that \"the Pope's option in favour of inter-religious and inter-cultural dialogue is equally unequivocal.\"\n\nFor many Muslim leaders, the declaration on 16 September was insufficient to rectify the situation. A representative for the Muslim Brotherhood rejected the Vatican statement, noting \"Has he presented a personal apology for statements by which he clearly is convinced? No.\" Grand Mufti Abdul-Azeez ibn Abdullaah Aal ash-Shaikh, Saudi Arabia's highest religious authority, called the pope's declaration \"lies\", adding that they \"show that reconciliation between religions is impossible.\" On the other hand, the Muslim Council of Britain had a more favourable view of the declaration, issuing their own statement on 16 September that the Pope's expression of \"sincere regret\" was \"a good first step.\"\n\nOn 17 September, before his regular weekly Sunday Angelus prayer, Pope Benedict XVI said:\n\nBenedict's remarks at his Angelus appearance initially received a mixed yet predominantly negative response. Mohammed Sayed Tantawi, Grand Imam of Al-Azhar Mosque, Cairo, a Sunni institution, stated \"We have no objection if the Pope holds another speech and declares publicly that what the Byzantine emperor had said was wrong. At the same time, the Pope has to apologize frankly and justify what he said,\" Mohammed Habib, deputy leader of the Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt's main Islamic opposition group originally, not long after the Pope's Sunday statements, called them a sufficient apology. However, later in the day, he retracted that statement, saying, \"The Pope's comments that downplayed his earlier remarks are not enough. We will not accept anything less than an apology,\" Mohammed Habib also said: \"It does not rise to the level of a clear apology and, based on this, we're calling on the Pope of the Vatican to issue a clear apology that will decisively end any confusion.\n\nThis sentiment was shared by the governments of Malaysia (\"inadequate to calm the anger\"), and Jordan (\"a step forward\", but \"not sufficient\"), by Turkish State Minister Mehmet Aydın (\"you either have to say this 'I'm sorry' in a proper way or not say it at all. Are you sorry for saying such a thing or because of its consequences?\") and scholar Yusuf al-Qaradawi, who called for a \"peaceful international day of rage\" on his popular TV show on Al Jazeera: \"[The Pope's latest statements] were no apology. They were an accusation against Muslims that they didn't understand his words.\"\n\nLater comments were more favourable of the Pope. Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said: \"We respect the Pope and all those interested in peace and justice,\" and said he accepted the Vatican view that the pontiff’s words had been \"misinterpreted\" and \"taken out of context\". Malaysia’s Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said: \"I suppose we could accept this. We hope that there would be no other statements that would anger Muslims.\" Ali Bardakoğlu, the head of Turkey’s Religious Affairs Directorate said that Benedict’s \"expression of sadness is a sign that he would work for world peace.\" Australian Muslim leader Ameer Ali said Australian Muslims must \"accept the Pope's apology\" over remarks that offended Islam and \"move on\". Filipino Muslims expressed support for Pope Benedict's apology and blamed certain media outlets for increasing the tensions between Muslims and Catholics.\n\nOn 25 September 2006, Pope Benedict XVI held an audience with Muslim diplomats, ambassadors of Muslim countries and members of the Consulta Islamica, the Italian government appointed consultative body on Islamic affairs. The meeting was an effort to mend relations with the Muslim community. Pope Benedict's spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, said the meeting at Castel Gandolfo, the Pope's summer residence, was \"certainly a sign that dialogue is returning to normal after moments of … misunderstanding.\"\n\nDuring the session, Pope Benedict XVI reiterated his conviction that the dialogue between Muslims and Christians is \"a vital necessity\" for the good of a world marked by relativism, one that \"excludes the transcendence and universality of reason.\" At this meeting, Pope Benedict expressed \"all the esteem and the profound respect that (he has) for Muslim believers.\" Among the ambassadors invited were those from Iraq, Iran, Turkey, Morocco, as well as many other nations and Islamic groups.\n\nPope Benedict has taken another step to placate anger in the Islamic world over his remarks on holy war, providing a better translation of his original text that re-affirmed that the quotation from a 14th-century Byzantine emperor was not his personal opinion. The original translation said the emperor's remark was \"with a startling brusqueness\" (some sources incorrectly say \"somewhat brusquely\" and/or incorrectly state that the original German text did not contain \"the mollifying language belatedly inserted into the English-language text\"). The translation was corrected to better reflect the original German text, \"in erstaunlich schroffer, uns überraschend schroffer Form ganz einfach.\" The corrected English translation added that the phrase \"a brusqueness that we find unacceptable.\" Pope Benedict added in a footnote: In the Muslim world, this quotation has unfortunately been taken as an expression of my personal position, thus arousing understandable indignation. I hope that the reader of my text can see immediately that this sentence does not express my personal view of the Quran, for which I have the respect due to the holy book of a great religion.He said he cited the text as part of an examination of the \"relationship between faith and reason.\"\n\nOn 12 October 2006, 100 of the most respected and influential Muslim scholars and clerics, including the Grand Muftis of Egypt, Russia, Bosnia, Kosovo, Turkey, Uzbekistan and Oman, as well as clerics and academics from the Middle East, Asia, North Africa, Europe and North America, published an Open Letter to the Pope. All the eight schools of thought and jurisprudence in Islam are represented by the signatories, but without representation of the influential Al-Azhar University in Cairo. The 38 signatories to the letter declare that they accept the Pope's \"personal expression of sorrow and assurance that the controversial quote did not reflect his personal opinion\" and responded to some of the main substantive issues raised in the Pope's treatment of a debate between the medieval Emperor Manuel II Palaiologos and an \"educated Persian,\" including reason and faith; forced conversion; \"jihad\" vs. \"holy war\"; and the relationship between Christianity and Islam.\n\nThe open letters also provided a surprising answer to Manuel II Palaiologos' question, \"Show me just what Muhammad brought that was new and there you will find things only evil and inhuman, such as his command to spread by the sword the faith he preached.\" It is:\nOn 11 October 2007, one year after the release of the open letter to the Pope, a larger group of 138 Muslim scholars, clerics and intellectuals sent another open letter, titled \"A Common Word Between Us and You\", to Pope Benedict and the leaders of other Christian denominations. This letter emphasized that Christians and Muslims worship the same God, and share many values, including living in peace with one's neighbours.\n\nThe Pope was actually citing a quotation from Manuel II's writings, not expressing his views. Despite this, demonstrations in the muslim world took place as if the comment, the offending judgement on Islam, was from the Pope himself. No distinction seems to have been drawn in the criticism trumpeted in these demonstrations as Tariq Ramadan (see above) implies. Security was discreetly stepped up around and inside the Vatican City, because of concerns about the possibility of acts of violence. Thousands of people took part in many protests.\n\nAt least five churches were attacked by Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza. In the West Bank city of Nablus, firebombings left black scorch marks on the walls and windows of the city's Anglican and Greek Orthodox churches. At least five firebombs hit the Anglican church and its door was later set ablaze. A group called the Lions of Monotheism claimed responsibility and said the attacks were carried out to protest the pope's speech\n\nLater that day, four masked gunmen doused the main doors of Nablus' Roman and Greek Catholic churches with lighter fluid, then set them afire. They also opened fire on the buildings, striking both with bullets. In Gaza City, terrorists opened fire from a car at a Greek Orthodox church, striking the facade. Explosive devices were set off at the same Gaza church on Friday, causing minor damage. There were no claims of responsibility for the last three attacks.\n\nSeveral organizations, such as Al-Qaeda and the Mujahideen Shura Council threatened in a joint statement: \"you and the West are doomed as you can see from the defeat in Iraq, Afghanistan, Chechnya, and elsewhere. ... We will break up the cross, spill the liquor and impose the \"jizya\" tax, then the only thing acceptable is a conversion (to Islam) or (being killed by) the sword. ... God enable us to slit their throats, and make their money and descendants the bounty of the Mujahideen.\"\n\nEmployees of Ankara's \"Diyanet İşleri Başkanlığı\" (Presidency of Religious Affairs), the state body that organizes Muslim worship in Turkey, asked the authorities on 19 September to open legal proceedings against Pope Benedict XVI and to arrest him when he visits the country in November 2006. They said the Pontiff had violated Turkish laws upholding freedom of belief and thought by \"insulting\" Islam and the Prophet Muhammad.\n\nOutside Westminster Cathedral, on 18 September 2006, around a hundred protestors held banners which included calls for the Pope's execution, \"Pope go to Hell\" and \"Jesus is the slave of Allah\", \"Islam will conquer Rome,\" and \"May Allah curse the Pope.\" \n\nThe Lashkar-e-Taiba in Pakistan has issued a fatwā asking the Muslim community to kill Pope Benedict for his \"blasphemous statement\" about Muhammad.\n\nOn 17 September 2006, two Somali gunmen shot and killed a 65-year-old Italian nun, Sister Leonella Sgorbati, working at the Austrian-run children's hospital in the city of Mogadishu, with her Somali bodyguard. A senior Somali Islamist, speaking on condition of anonymity, said: \"There is a very high possibility the people who killed her were angered by the Catholic Pope's recent comments against Islam\"; however, no specific evidence was provided for the motive.\n\nSheikh Mukhtar Robow, member of the Islamic Courts Union, said there was a \"concrete possibility\" that the murder of the nun was \"a reprisal for the Pope's remarks on Islam\".\nHowever, several humanitarian workers and Christian volunteers have been murdered by Islamic gunmen in Somalia, including Italian bishop Salvatore Colombo shot dead while celebrating mass in Mogadishu in 1989, Graziella Fumagalli, an Italian medical doctor, killed in 1995 in the anti-TBC Center she was running; Annalena Tonelli assassinated in 2003 in a unique relief center in Borama, after 33 years of service to the poorest, and Dick and Enid Eyeington in 2003. In all of the aforementioned killings, the assailants were Muslim.\n\nIn Iraq, the flags of Germany, Israel, and the United States, and Christian crosses and effigies of Pope Benedict were burned in Basra.\n\nIraq has one of the largest Christian minorities in the Middle East, where Assyrians number about one million. Since the Pope's comments, several churches have been bombed; however, many were being bombed before the Pope's comments starting with the US invasion in 2003 in the power vacuum created by the fall of Saddam Hussein. A previously unknown Baghdad-based group, Kataab Ashbal Al Islam Al Salafi (Islamic Salafist Boy Scout Battalions) threatened to kill all Christians in Iraq if the Pope does not apologize to Muhammad within three days. Christian Leaders in Iraq asked their parishioners not to leave their homes, after two Christians were stabbed and killed in Baghdad.\n\nThere were reports of writing in church doors stating \"If the Pope does not apologise, we will bomb all churches, kill more Christians and steal their property and money.\" \n\nThe Iraqi militia Jaish al-Mujahedin (Holy Warriors' Army) announced its intention to \"destroy their cross in the heart of Rome… and to hit the Vatican.\"\n\nDespite the Pope's comments dying down in the media, attacks on Assyrian Christians continued and on 9 October, an Islamic extremist group kidnapped priest Ameer Iskander, in Mosul. His body was found three days later, decapitated. His relatives have said that his Muslim captors had demanded his church condemn the pope's comments about Islam (which it already had) and pay a $350,000 ransom.\n\nAnother point of controversy, widely covered in Arab media, but much less so in Western media, was the Pope's assessment that sura (i.e. Chapter) 2 in the Qur'an, which includes the verse \"There is no compulsion in religion\", was \"one of the suras of the early period, when Muhammad was still powerless and under threat\", and that instructions \"concerning holy war\" had come later.\"\n\nMany scholars of Islam have taken this as a classification of the sura as stemming from the earlier Meccan period and have shown the Pope to be mistaken by pointing out that Surah 2 was revealed in various stages and that this verse was revealed after Muhammad's hijra from Mecca, during his period of stay in Medina and hence is from the Medinan period which was the final stage of the revelation of the Qur'an when the Muslims were becoming numerous and increasingly powerful and safe from the immediate dangers that had overshadowed them for 13 years in Mecca. The scholars also point out that the Pope failed to mention that even if this verse was revealed when the Muslims were weak, they could have easily abrogated it with another verse which gave them permission to forcefully convert people once they finally conquered Mecca; this, however, did not happen.\n\nIn contrast to the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy, the media focus was not on the issues of free speech or injured religious sensitivities. Underlying the widely talked about question of whether or not the Pope should apologize, and whether or not his subsequent statements even constituted an apology, several competing and separate interpretations of his intentions have been proffered. These are, broadly and in no particular order:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43074755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43074755", "title": "SCCA Continental Championship", "text": "SCCA Continental Championship\n\nThe SCCA Continental Championship was an annual, professional, open-wheel motor racing series organized by the Sports Car Club of America (SCCA), under various names, from 1967 to 1976.\n\nThe inaugural series was staged in 1967 as the SCCA Grand Prix Championship. It was open to the SCCA's existing Formula A, Formula B and Formula C cars, which were restricted to maximum engine capacities of 3 liters, 1.6 liters and 1.1 liters respectively. For 1968, the SCCA amended their Formula A regulations to allow the use of production-based V8 engines, restricted to a 5-liter maximum engine capacity, in addition to the existing 3 liter engines.\n\nFor 1969 the series was renamed to the SCCA Continental Championship, with the Formula A cars now contesting a separate feature race at each championship event and the Formula B & C cars competing in their own race for separate points. The championship received substantial sponsorship from L&M Cigarettes for 1970. Increased support from L&M saw the championship renamed to become the SCCA L&M Continental 5000 Championship for 1971, the \"5000\" component of the name chosen to give the 5 liter formula greater international recognition. As of 1972, the Formula A regulations still permitted both 5000cc restricted and 3000cc unrestricted engines. Sponsorship by the L&M cigarette brand was not carried forward from the 1973 championship.\n\nAn agreement was reached between the Sports Car Club of America (SCCA) and the United States Auto Club (USAC) to jointly sanction the championship from 1974. The championship was renamed to the SCCA/USAC Formula 5000 Championship and was now open to both SCCA Formula 5000 cars and USAC Championship Division cars. The latter could be powered by supercharged engines of up to 2650cc, non- supercharged overhead camshaft engines of up to 4,200cc or production, non- supercharged, non-overhead camshaft engines of up to 5,250cc.\nDuring 1976 USAC announced their intention to withdraw from the co-sanctioning arrangement at the end of the year. The SCCA proposed to stage a ten race championship in 1977 but subsequently decided to replace the Formula 5000 Championship with a revived Can Am Series. Regulations permitted the existing Formula 5000 cars, with fully enveloping bodywork, to compete in the new series.\n"}
{"id": "31565884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31565884", "title": "Signature forgery", "text": "Signature forgery\n\nSignature forgery refers to the act of falsely replicating the signature of another person.\n\nSeveral different methods can be used to forge signatures. One method is the \"freehand method\", whereby the forger, after careful practice, replicates the signature by freehand. Although a difficult method to perfect, this often produces the most convincing results. \n\nIn the \"trace-over method\", the sheet of paper containing the genuine signature is placed on top of the paper where the forgery is required. The signature is traced over, appearing as a faint indentation on the sheet of paper underneath. This indentation can then be used as a guide for a signature.\n\nA number of characteristics can suggest to an examiner that a signature has been forged, mostly stemming from the forger focusing on accuracy rather than fluency. These include:\n"}
{"id": "1342935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1342935", "title": "State Fair of West Virginia", "text": "State Fair of West Virginia\n\nThe State Fair of West Virginia is an annual state fair for West Virginia, United States. It is held annually in mid-August on the State Fairgrounds in Fairlea, near Lewisburg, West Virginia in the southeastern part of the state. The 2018 Fair runs from August 9- 18. The State Fairgrounds consists of a large open field for carnivals and exhibitions, a horse track, grandstands, and several exhibition buildings. Free parking is provided adjacent to the fairgrounds and, until 2006, free camping was also available in a large field with running-water toilets and showers, but no hookups. Campers are now charged a small fee.\n\nThe first event to be called the State Fair occurred in Wheeling on February 1, 1881. The Lewisburg fair evolved from local events that date back to 1854. In 1941 the state government declared it to be the official State Fair. However, World War II forced cancellation of the event until 1946. The Meadow River Lumber Building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1997.\n\nBy the standards of large states with a more agricultural economies, the West Virginia event is relatively small. It lasts over eight days. It features a traveling carnival with various rides, competitive exhibitions by farmers and 4-H and FFA members, harness racing (no gambling is currently allowed), exhibitions by manufacturers of farm machinery and industrial tools, and a nightly concert performed by popular artists. Higher stakes Bingo is conducted at the fair than is normally permitted under state law. A beauty queen is selected. In political years, elaborate displays by candidates and political parties are also a part of the fair. Midway Rides are provided by the Orange unit of Reithoffer Shows. \n\nThe 2006 fair generated 174,438 paid admissions, which was the highest number since 2002. Adding children under five (who are admitted free) and various other complementary admissions brings the estimated attendance to 210,000. Prior to the completion of Interstate 64 in 1988 the fairground was difficult to access from most of the state and the event was much more local in nature. However, it has grown greatly since that time.\n\nThe Fair is a non-profit organization under section 501(c)(3) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Although the Fair does not release its financial statements to the public, managers claim that it operates on a \"small margin.\" According to a 2006 report commissioned by the Fair, it has an annual economic impact of $8.9 million on Greenbrier County.\n\nThe Fair receives no appropriation from the state, supporting itself from admissions, fees charged to vendors, and rental of the fairgrounds to other groups. It does receive support in kind from the state Department of Agriculture and from West Virginia University.\n\n"}
{"id": "1494004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1494004", "title": "Studniówka", "text": "Studniówka\n\nStudniówka () is a traditional ball for final grade high school (\"liceum\" or \"technikum\") students (i.e. aged 18–20) in Poland, analogous to senior prom in the United States. It is held approximately a hundred days before the \"matura\", or leaving exam; hence its name, which is a Polish noun formed from the adjective \"studniowy\", meaning \"hundred-day\" (compare \"sto dni\", \"a hundred days\").\n\nThe ball is usually organized by parents who also pay most of the costs. The choice of venue depends mostly on the funds – it may be the school gym, but also an expensive hotel, or even a palace or castle. The ball is attended by students and their dates, teachers, and – sometimes – parents.\n\nThe attire is formal; this means suits with neckties (not tuxedos) for boys, and evening gowns for girls. Additionally, girls may don red lingerie underneath, which is believed to bring good luck at the exams; boys may also wear red underpants, but this is less common.\n\n\"Studniówka\" customarily starts with a dinner, usually followed by a toast with champagne. This is normally the first occasion when students and their teachers officially drink alcohol together.\n\nThe first dance is almost invariably a polonaise, which students usually have to practice before the ball, followed by more modern dances. A popular competition during the party is a contest for the one who can dance longest holding his partner in the arms. During this contest, the tiniest girls around are particularly popular with boys.\n\nApart from the red underwear, the ball may be associated with many other superstitious practices, such as jumping on one leg around a monument – all of which are supposed to help students pass their \"matura\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1654279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1654279", "title": "Swimsuit competition", "text": "Swimsuit competition\n\nA swimsuit competition, more commonly now called a bikini contest, is a beauty contest in which one of the judging criteria is the physical attributes of contestants, which is judged and ranked while contestants wear a swimsuit, typically a bikini.\n\nBikini contests may be organised or sponsored by related companies for marketing purposes or to try to find and attract new talent to promote their products, masquerading as mild adult entertainment in the forms of a beauty contest. Swimwear competitions have been a part of beauty pageants, such as the Miss America and Miss World pageants and by organizations such as Hawaiian Tropic, and may also be held in a bar or nightclub, during intermissions of boxing or wrestling matches or at a car show. Bodybuilding and fitness competitions have evolved to include a bikini division. Participants in such contests may be competing for prizes including trophies, money, and modeling contracts.\n\nIn the United States, beauty pageants of women in bathing costumes became popular from the 1880s. However, such events were not regarded as respectable. Beauty contests became more respectable with the first modern \"Miss America\" contest held in 1921, though less respectable beauty contests continued to be held.\n\nPublic swimsuit competitions are subject to local decency laws, which generally require nipples and labia to be covered. More specific standards of dress or nudity may be determined by the contest organisers. Contestants may be permitted or required to wear certain types of bikini, such as the microkini (a bikini consisting of a minimal top and thong). Contest organisers may also specify the contestants' age range. In many contests the winners are determined by a panel of judges, but in some cases formal judging is absent and the winner is decided by popular vote. Announcers often present the competition, and they may also help the contestants to connect with the crowd. Winning over the crowd is of principal importance for many competitions, as results can be heavily influenced by audience input.\n\nBikini contests may be organised or sponsored by related companies for marketing purposes or to try to find and attract new talent to promote their products. Miss Hawaiian Tropic is organized by Playtex to promote \"Hawaiian Tropic\", its suntan lotion. NOPI runs the annual Hot Import Nights bikini contest, which is held in conjunction with the import car-show in Atlanta, Georgia, and the annual Hooter's bikini competition.\n\nThere are some swimsuit competitions which aim to judge the beauty of a single part of body, such as female buttocks (for example, the Miss Bum Bum contest held in Brazil, and the Miss Reef contest held in several South American countries).\n\nDespite their popularity and women's voluntary participation, swimsuit competitions, especially bikini contests, may be controversial. Critics argue that beauty contests reinforce the idea that girls and women are primarily valued for their physical appearance, and that this puts pressure on women to conform to conventional beauty standards by spending time and money on fashion, cosmetics, hair styling and even cosmetic surgery. It depletes their bodies of nutrients, energy and even water at the end and expresses a totally unrealistic and unsustainable lifestyle, centered purely around how little fat and how much spray tan they have on. This pursuit of physical beauty even encourages some women to diet to the point of harming themselves.\n\nThe first Miss World contest was organized by Eric Morley in 1951 as a promotion for swimwear at the Festival of Britain. The press welcomed the spectacle and referred to it as \"Miss World\". When the winner Kiki Håkansson from Sweden was crowned in a bikini, countries with religious traditions threatened to withdraw delegates. The bikinis were outlawed and evening gowns introduced instead. Håkansson remains the only Miss World crowned in a bikini, a crowning that was condemned by the Pope. The bikini was banned from Miss World beauty pageants after the controversy.\n\nBikinis reappeared in later contests amid additional controversy. In the 1970s and 1980s the contest was regularly picketed by feminist protesters. The pageant disappeared for a while and in 1996, when the Miss World contest was held in Bangalore, India, dozens of Indian groups opposed to the event claimed that the contest degraded women by featuring them in bikinis. Social activist Subhashini Ali commented, \"It's not an IQ test. Neither is it a charity show. It's a beauty contest in which these things have been added on as sops.\" The protests were so intense that the organizers were finally compelled to shift the venue of the \"Swimsuit Round\" to Seychelles. Countering these claims, the contest organizer says that the organization has raised ₤300 million for charity in many of the countries where it operates since 2000.\n\nIn 2013, the Miss World event was hosted by Indonesia, the world's largest Muslim-majority country. The country's top Muslim clerical body, the Indonesian Ulema Council, suggested that the event should be cancelled because it promotes \"hedonism, materialism, and consumerism,\" and is nothing but \"an excuse to show women's body parts that should remain covered.\" The organizers later announced that the bikini would be replaced by one-piece swimsuits and sarongs, traditional beachwear on the resort island of Bali. Pageant Chairwoman Julia Morley explained, \"I do not want to upset or get anyone in a situation where we are being disrespectful.\"\n\nCritics accuse the Miss World organizers of caving to extremist pressures. They point out that Bali is a destination for tourists from across the world who often wear minimal swimwear.\n\nBrooke Magnanti argued that the decision to yield to religious fundamentalists was not a victory for feminism:\n\nDonald Trump, who owned the Miss Universe beauty pageant until it was acquired by William Morris Endeavor, a competitor to the Miss World contest, was delighted to learn of the rival organization's decision. He told Fox TV, \"Well, I own Miss Universe, so I'm actually very happy about it—because if Miss World doesn't have bikinis their ratings go right down the tubes.\" Coincidentally, Miss Teen USA, a Miss Universe pageant, abolished swimsuit competitions in favour of a sportswear competition in 2016.\n\nVida Samadzai was the 2003 Afghani contestant for the Miss Earth title. She was severely condemned by the both Afghan authorities and community for seeking the title. Samadzai was born in Afghanistan but raised in the United States. She was living in India at the time of the contest. The Afghan Supreme Court banned swimsuit contests and said that appearing naked in beauty contests is completely un-Islamic, and is against Afghan tradition, human honour and dignity. Habiba Sarabi, the Afghan women affairs minister, said Samadzai's semi-naked appearance \"is not women's freedom but in my opinion is to entertain men\". Afghanistan's embassy in Washington DC declared that claims by Afghan American Samadzai to represent Afghanistan is baseless. Samadzai, the second woman to be crowned Miss Afghanistan after Zohra Daoud's crowning in 1972, received a number of death threats and had to be under the protection of FBI for three months. She said she was a bit uncomfortable wearing the \"70s style red bikini\" and was aware of the risks involved.\n\n\"Miss Tanguita\", which translates as \"Miss Child Bikini\", is held in Barbosa, Santader, Colombia as annual part of the \"del Rio Suarez\" Festival. The organisers deny the allegations that the competition is a camouflage for sexual exploitation, and instead describe it as an awareness event about the importance of children's fitness. Activists say that the competition, though legal, abuses the human rights of minors.\n\nBeginning in 2016, the Miss Teen USA pageant removed the swimsuit competition and replaced it with an athleticwear round.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24632037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24632037", "title": "The Biograph Girl", "text": "The Biograph Girl\n\nThe Biograph Girl is a musical with a book by Warner Brown, lyrics by Brown and David Heneker, and music by Heneker. Its plot focuses on the silent film era and five pioneers of American cinema - actresses Mary Pickford and Lillian Gish, directors D. W. Griffith and Mack Sennett, and Paramount Pictures founder Adolph Zukor.\n\n When Mary Gish and her daughters Lillian and Dorothy recognize their friend Gladys Smith in a film made by the American Mutoscope and Biograph Company, they search for her at the studio headquarters in New York City. There they discover she has been rechristened Mary Pickford and is known as the Biograph Girl. Before long Lillian and Dorothy are acting in films directed by D.W. Griffith, and when he decides to relocate to Hollywood, he brings the girls and their mother with him.\n\nLillian is cast in \"Birth of a Nation\", while Mary decides to leave Griffith in order to work for Adolph Zukor at a substantially higher salary. Eventually she finds herself forced to suppress her growing sophistication in order to maintain the image of innocence her fans have embraced. Shocked by the negative public and industry reaction to \"Birth of a Nation\", Griffith vows to make an epic film advocating peace and tolerance. \n\n\"Intolerance\" proves to be an artistic success but a commercial flop. Griffith's financial woes threaten to end his career until Mary joins him, Charles Chaplin, and Douglas Fairbanks to form United Artists. When Griffith's monetary situation fails to improve, he urges Lillian to accept an offer from another studio, and she reluctantly does.\n\nWith the arrival of sound films in 1927, the industry's pioneers are forced to re-evaluate their careers and make plans for the future.\n\nProduced by Harold Fielding, directed by Victor Spinetti, and choreographed by Irving Davies, the musical premiered at the Phoenix Theatre in the West End on 19 November 1980 and closed after 57 performances. The cast included Sheila White as Mary Pickford, Bruce Barry as D.W. Griffith, Kate Revill as Lillian Gish, Guy Siner as Mack Sennett, and Ron Berglas as Adolph Zukor.\n\nVeteran theatre critic Harold Hobson found it to be \"a most excellent, delicate and perceptive entertainment, with young players of talent so outstanding that after fifty years of play going I was taken by delighted surprise\" and concluded, \"I would ask all London to go and see it.\"\n\nFrancis King of the \"Sunday Telegraph\" said the score \"is always tuneful, witty and sophisticated,\" and Jack Tinker of the \"Daily Mail\" called it \"a sweet lament for lost innocence\" and \"a minor miracle\" and added, \"This delightfully unassuming show contains the same naive charm as those early flicks' themselves.\" In his review in the \"International Herald Tribune\", Sheridan Morley described it as \"a joyous celebration of the silent screen ... a delight. It captures moments of sheer exuberant nostalgia.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23142136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23142136", "title": "The Bomb (play)", "text": "The Bomb (play)\n\nThe Bomb is a play by Kevin Dyer, focusing on the IRA Brighton bombing of 1984.\n\nIn 2000, Jo Berry, whose father was killed in the blast, met Patrick Magee, the man who planted the bomb. \"The Bomb\" is inspired by the events which led Jo and Patrick to meet and the impact those people had on each other.\n\nIt is sourced from interviews, research and actual and imagined dialogue. It is not a verbatim play, but is partly factual and describes real events.\n\n\"The Bomb\" has twice toured nationally. \"The Bomb\" was nominated for two Theatrical Management Awards.\n"}
{"id": "8170064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8170064", "title": "The League of the Scarlet Pimpernel", "text": "The League of the Scarlet Pimpernel\n\nThe League of the Scarlet Pimpernel is a sequel book to the classic adventure tale, \"The Scarlet Pimpernel.\" Written by Baroness Orczy and first published in 1919, the book consists of eleven short stories about Sir Percy Blakeney's exploits in rescuing various aristos and French citizens from the clutches of the guillotine.\n\nThe stories, which are listed below, are set in 1793 but appear in no particular order. They occasionally refer to events in other books in the series.\n\nMadeleine Lannoy, whose husband was killed at Versailles defending the Queen from the mob, has become a street dancer in the worst parts of Paris. She has taken on this guise in the hope of finding her only son who has been stolen by Citizen Jean Paul Marat, annoyed by her spurning his advances. All she knows is that her child \"is to be reared up in the company of all that is most vile and most degraded in the disease-haunted slums of indigent Paris\" and that if she doesn't find him soon he risks becoming a criminal or a drink-sodden reprobate at best.\n\nCitizen Bibot of the Town Guard has command of the Porte Montmartre – the last commandant there, citizen Ferney, was guillotined for having allowed a whole batch of aristos to escape and find safety outside the walls of Paris. Citizen Marat arrives to warn Bibot to be watchful because the Pimpernel has promised to rescue the Duc and Duchesse de Montreux and their family, (who are on their way to the Conciergerie prison) that very evening, but Bibot is determined that the Scarlet Pimpernel will not get one over on him.\n\nBeing the desposition of citizeness Fanny Roussell, who was brought up together with her husband, before the Tribunal of the Revolution on a charge of Treason – both being subsequently acquitted.\n\nNobody in the quartier could quite recollect when it was that citizen Lepine, the new public letter-writer first set up in business at the angle formed by the Quai des Augustins and the Rue Dauphine; but he certainly was there on the 28th day of February 1793, when Agnes, with eyes swollen with tears, a market basket on her arm and a look of dreary despair on her young face, turned that self same angle on her way to the Pont Neuf, and nearly fell over the rickety construction which sheltered him and his stock.\n\nPierre Lenėgre had been a footman in the household of Marie Antoinette. After speaking out in favour of the Queen in a public place he was denounced by the Committee of Public Safety and would have gone to the guillotine had the Scarlet Pimpernel not saved him. Sir Percy is visiting Pierre's parents when he learns that Père Lenègre has been denounced by the concierge Jean Baptiste, who knows Percy often visits them, and that the gendarmes are on their way to arrest him.\n\nThe Marquis and Marquise de Mortaine and their son le Vicomte are hiding from the Revolutionary Guard in the attic of a house in Lyons. Out of money they have not eaten for two days and the young Vicomte is slowly starving to death. Their loyal servant Jean-Pierre is out looking for milk for the child when he passes out from hunger, awaking to the sound of two men talking in English. He tells the crowd who are after them, which direction they have gone in return for a bottle of wine and a roast capon, but he soon feels like a treacherous coward. Having dropped and broken the precious wine bottle he is rescued by the two strangers who listen to his plight and bring food to the starving aristos. It becomes evident that the Vicomte is very ill and must see a doctor at once, but the only man up to the job is the infamous republican Citizen Laporte, who would certainly send them all to the guillotine.\n\nBeing a fragment from the diary of Valentine Lemercier in the possession of her great-granddaughter. The Lemercier family have been arrested and imprisoned in a dank vault in the Abbaye. They have been in prison for a fortnight when they hear in the distance a noise like the rumbling of thunder – it is the start of the September massacres and hundreds of men, women and children are being slaughtered in the prisons. They are convinced they are facing death and it seems the moment they are dreading has arrived, for heavy blows are falling against the masonry around their prison window.\n\nNovember 1793. Lord Kulmsted is a member of the League of the Scarlet Pimpernel, however, for some time he has been an adherent in name only. Whether his embitterment comes from lack of money, or jealously of Sir Percy, his oath of fealty has been broken and the threat of treachery hovers in the air. The Scarlet Pimpernel appears not to heed Kulmsted's disloyalty and, against the wishes of the other league members, includes him in a mission to Paris to rescue some women from the household of Marie Antointte, condemned to die for their loyalty to their martyred queen.\n\nEsther Vincent is the daughter of a wealthy banker who has already been sent to the guillotine. Although her father's house and property was confiscated after his death, the representatives of the people never found the millions which he was supposed to have concealed. Esther is now living in one of the poorer parts of Paris while a number of astute jailbirds are plotting to obtain her money and wealth by forcing her to choose between marrying one of their gang, Citizen Merri, or face death. The Pimpernel takes on the guise of Citizen Rateau, a tall, cadaverous-looking creature, with sunken eyes and broad, hunched up shoulders and a dry rasping cough that proclaimed the ravages of some mortal disease. Can he rescue Esther and her English lover Jack Kennard from the evil plot?\n\nLucile Clamette and her three children are up in front of Commissary Lebel and citizen Chauvelin, who are trying to entrap her former employer, Henri the Vicomte de Montogrueil. Frightened by threats that her children will be sent to a House of Correction on the orders of the Committee of Public Safety, she agrees to write a letter to Henri and his father, the Marquis, as dictated by Chauvelin. The father and son are in possession of some incriminating papers containing evidence of bribes paid to members of the CPS, which have so far allowed them to pass unmolested by the terrorists. If the Marquis hands over the papers they will be soon be arrested and sent to the guillotine but how can he refuse, when Lucile's children are in such danger? Lucile's son runs to the Cabaret de la Liberté to find Citizen Rateau (one of the Pimpernel's recurring alter-egos) and tells him of the family's plight.\n\nTournefort, a sleuth-hound employed by the Committee of Public Safety, is hanging around a house in St Lazare one night when he hears a voice talking to a 'Madame la Comtesse' and discussing how the diamonds she has left in her château can be recovered. Realising that this can only be the wife of the Comte de Sucy, he listens for more details then demands entry to the house to confront and arrest the traitors. The concierge tells Tournefort that he is imagining things and assures him he has seen no aristos. Tournefort doesn't believe him but despite searching the lodge, fails to find any evidence. Determined to steal a march on citizen Chauvelin, Tournefort enlists the help of citizen Gourdon and a gang of ruffians (which includes one Citizen Rateau) and they ransack the château looking for the missing jewellery, however Chauvelin has got wind of the scheme and presently appears on the scene...\n"}
{"id": "28386776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28386776", "title": "The Rear Column", "text": "The Rear Column\n\nThe Rear Column is a play by Simon Gray set in the jungle of the Congo Free State in 1887-88. The story begins after explorer Henry Morton Stanley, has gone to relieve Emin Pasha, governor of Equatoria, from a siege by Mahdist forces. He leaves behind him a 'rear column' with supplies at the Yambuya camp on the Aruwimi River and instructs them to wait until the Arab slave trader, Tippu Tib, has brought 600 more porters before following on to Equatoria. The play follows the story of the men left waiting in the camp. The officers depicted in the play are based on historical figures.\n\nThe play was first produced in London's West End in 1978 at the Globe Theatre in London, now known as the Gielgud Theatre.\n\n\n\nBonny, Ward and Troup have just arrived after an arduous journey from London and are disappointed to find that Stanley has gone on ahead. They discover from Major Barttelot that they are to wait for Tippu Tib to bring 600 more porters before they can follow Stanley. The porters already in the camp, Zanzibaris and Soudanese, are diseased and many of them have been flogged for thieving. Ward and Troup are furious when Barttelot refuses to release provisions promised to them in London, on the basis that Stanley has left no explicit orders for them to be released. Later, Barttelot asks Bonny if he can recommend him as unfit for service as he hasn't been sleeping, mistakenly thinking that Bonny is a doctor. Bonny informs Barttelot that he is only a medical orderly, and couldn't make such a recommendation, but is fully in support of the major carrying on his duties. That evening, a goat is cooked especially to mark the arrival of the three officers. Barttelot, under the suggestion of Jameson, offers to give them half their provisions then, and the other half when they meet up with Stanley. The officers agree.\n\n\nSix months later. Ward is outside performing a flogging. Jameson is due back from a trip up the river to investigate rumours the Tippu Tib is nearby. Troup complains to Barttelot that Jameson is always absent during floggings and has always voted against them, on the grounds that enough of the porters are dying from disease already. Ward returns and says he is coming round to Jameson's point of view, and suggests they should try not flogging for a while. Troup agrees, but Bartellot is adamant that they should continue with the floggings, from which many people now have died. Jameson returns with no confirmation of Tippu Tib being near, but he has seen the remains of a cannibal feast. Troup demands that they talk about what they are going to do, arguing that Stanley couldn't possibly want them to wait indefinitely, particularly as medical supplies are running low. Barttelot insists that they must wait, as they have enough brass rods to pay the porters for another six months. Ward, who has been suffering from a fever, gets quickly worse and asks that Jameson stay next to him as he tries to sleep. A few days later, on Christmas Day, Ward is feeling better, and the officers all enjoy brandy and cigars.\n\n\nSix months later. A native woman is tied by the neck to a post, suspected of stealing morphine from the supplies tent while the guards were sleeping on duty. Bonny observes her while Ward makes a sculpture of her. Ward tells Bonny that he knows it was him who stole the morphine to help him sleep. Troup comes in, suffering terribly from a fever. Barttelot enters with two rotting fish, provided by the native woman's husband to buy her back, so he sets her free. Troup asks Barttelot for some quinine from Stanley's supplies, but Barttelot refuses. Jameson returns from another sortie to report that he has met Tippu Tib, who has promised he will be there in a month with the 600 porters, bringing great relief all round. Jameson then gives Troup his quinine. Ward suspects that Jameson is lying and when they are alone he quizzes him about the trip. Jameson admits that while he did meet Tippu Tib, but it was obvious that the promise he gave was a lie. Later that night, Barttelot confesses to Jameson that the day before he had attacked the native woman who beats drums every night in the camp and bitten her in the neck, then afterwards, with blood round his mouth, beaten his servant boy, John Henry. Bonny comes in and looks at Jameson's sketches from his trip. One sketch shows a young native girl tied to a tree. Jameson explains that, as he had never seen a cannibal feast, under Tippu Tib's suggestion he had bought the girl so that she could be given to a cannibalistic tribe, and he could sketch her being killed and eaten. The other men are shocked, and Jameson realises with horror what he has done. Barttelot is furious that, as Jameson had given copies of the sketches to Tippu Tib, the story will get out and his reputation will be ruined. In his rage Barttelot attacks John Henry and kills him, then runs outside to the beating drum where he is shot and killed by the porters. In the final scene of the play, Stanley has arrived, but only Bonny is left in the camp. Jameson has died of illness at a mission house, Ward has gone missing and Troup is on his way back to England.\n\n\"The Rear Column\" was first performed at the Globe Theatre in London (now known as the Gielgud Theatre) directed by Harold Pinter, with the following cast:\n\n\n\"The Rear Column\" was filmed for television by the BBC and broadcast on 13 April 1980, directed by Harold Pinter. The cast was as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4427264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4427264", "title": "The White Devil", "text": "The White Devil\n\nThe White Devil (full original title: The White Divel; or, The Tragedy of Paolo Giordano Ursini, Duke of Brachiano. With The Life and Death of Vittoria Corombona the famous Venetian Curtisan) is a revenge tragedy by English playwright John Webster (c.1580–c.1634). According to Webster's own preface to the 1612 Quarto Edition, \"To the Reader\", the play's first performance in that year was a notorious failure; he complained that the play was acted in the dead of winter before an unreceptive audience. The play's complexity, sophistication, and satire made it a poor fit with the repertory of Queen Anne's Men at the Red Bull Theatre, where it was first performed. It was successfully revived in 1630 by Queen Henrietta's Men at the Cockpit Theatre and published again in 1631.\n\nIn 1707 Nahum Tate published an adaptation of Webster's play titled \"Injured Love\" which was not performed.\n\nThe story is loosely based on an event in Italy thirty years prior to the play's composition: the murder of Vittoria Accoramboni in Padua on 22 December 1585. Webster's dramatisation of this event turned Italian corruption into a vehicle for depicting \"the political and moral state of England in his own day\", particularly the corruption in the royal court.\n\nThe play explores the differences between the reality of people and the way they depict themselves as good, \"white\", or pure.\n\n\nWebster based \"The White Devil\" on newsletter versions of the story of the killing of Vittoria Accoramboni. Such recollections detailed how Vittoria, of a proud but poor family, married the nephew of Cardinal Motalto. In 1580, she met Paolo Giordano Orsini, Duke of Bracciano, previously married to Isabella Medici of the famous Medici family.\n\nUpon meeting Vittoria, the Duke fell desperately in love with her and arranged for the Cardinal's nephew to be killed in order that he might secretly marry Vittoria. Pope Gregory soon found out and ordered Vittoria and the Duke to part and even resorted to having Vittoria imprisoned in the Castel Sant'Angelo under the suspicion of having killed her husband.\n\nIn 1585 a new pope was elected and amid the confusion of change Vittoria and Bracciano married and left Rome. In the play the Pope is misnamed Paul IV (he was Sixtus V, Paul IV having died in 1559). Eight months later the Duke died and the Medici family, wishing to protect their family interests, challenged his will, which placed Vittoria to be in charge of his fortune. When Vittoria refused to co-operate, the Medicis arranged for her to be killed. She was stabbed to death in Padua by Ludovico Orsini.\n\nCount Lodovico is banished from Rome for debauchery and murder; his friends promise to work for the repeal of his sentence. The Duke of Brachiano has conceived a violent passion for Vittoria Corombona, daughter of a noble but impoverished Venetian family, despite the fact they are both married to other people. Vittoria's brother Flamineo, employed as a secretary to Brachiano, has been scheming to bring his sister and the Duke together in the hope of advancing his career. The plan is foiled by the arrival of Brachiano's wife Isabella, escorted by her brother and Cardinal Monticelso. They are both outraged by the rumours of Brachiano's infidelity and set out to make the affair public; before that happens Brachiano and Flamineo arrange to have Camillo (Vittoria's husband) and Isabella murdered.\n\nVittoria is put on trial for the murder of her husband and although there is no real evidence against her, she is condemned by the Cardinal to imprisonment in a convent for penitent whores. Flamineo pretends madness to protect himself from awkward suggestions. The banished Count Lodovico is pardoned and returns to Rome; confessing he had been secretly in love with Isabella, he vows to avenge her death. Isabella's brother Francisco also plots revenge. He pens a love letter to Vittoria, which falls into the hands of Brachiano. It fuels his jealousy and forces him to elope with Vittoria. Cardinal Monticelso is elected Pope and as his first act he excommunicates Vittoria and Brachiano, who have fled Rome.\n\nVittoria and Brachiano, now married, hold court in Padua. Three mysterious strangers have arrived to enter Brachiano's service. These are Francisco, disguised as Mulinassar, a Moor, and Lodovico and Gasparo, disguised as Capuchin monks, all conspiring to avenge Isabella's death. They begin their revenge by poisoning Brachiano. As he is dying, Lodovico and Gasparo reveal themselves to him. Next, Zanche, Vittoria's Moorish maid, who has fallen in love with her supposed countryman Mulinassar, reveals to him the murders of Isabella and Camillo and Flamineo's part in them.\n\nFlamineo is banished from court by Brachiano's son Giovanni, the new Duke, and sensing that his crimes are catching up with him he goes to see Vittoria. He tries to persuade her and Zanche to a triple suicide by shooting him, then themelves. Vittoria and Zanche shoot Flamineo and, thinking him dead, exult in his death and their escape. Much to their surprise, Flamineo rises from the 'dead' and reveals to them the pistols were not loaded. While trying to exact his own revenge on Vittoria, Lodovico and Gasparo then enter the scene and complete their revenge by killing them. Giovanni and officers come to the scene and the play ends with Giovanni learning of his uncle's participation in the bloody acts and sending Lodovico off to torture.\n\nThe play was written for and first performed by Queen Anne's Men at the Red Bull Theatre in Clerkenwell in the early months of 1612. The troupe usually offered simpler and more optimistic plays of the type written by their dramatist, Thomas Heywood. The play staged before Webster's seems to have been \"If This Be Not a Good Play\", a tragicomedy by Thomas Dekker. Webster's play failed at its debut. In the prefatory epistle to the quarto, Webster praised the actors, mentioning Richard Perkins; but complained of the winter weather and above all of the audience, whose intellect he compared to that of donkeys.\n\nThe first successful modern production was that of the Marlowe Society (ADC Theatre, Cambridge, March 1920), with music by C. Armstrong Gibbs and with Eric Maschwitz as Vittoria. The Society specialised in Elizabethan and Jacobean revivals in uncut texts performed with their original economy and rapidity, and with the female roles played by men. \"Anybody who enjoys hearing beautiful poetry beautifully spoken\" wrote the editor of the \"Cambridge Review\", \"and tragic passion 'with dignity put on' should not miss this wonderful opportunity. What a magnificent play!\" \"After three hundred years it must console the poet in his Elysium to know that at last his play has been played with success before a 'full and understanding auditory'. We must confess that to us it was the ritual of an initiation to the mysteries of a play which we always believed to be great, but which we never realized was quite so wonderful\". The production inspired the Cambridge scholar F. L. Lucas to edit the complete plays of Webster. \"But in what exactly does the fascination of Webster consist?\" he asked in the \"New Statesman\". \"What could make the Cambridge production of \"The White Devil\" in 1920 seem still, to at least two who saw it then without any preconceptions, the most staggering performance they had ever known?\"\n\nIn 1925 the Renaissance Theatre mounted a heavily cut version featuring Viola Tree and Cedric Hardwicke. The production was not well reviewed, perhaps mainly because of a failure to understand the special requirements of Renaissance dramaturgy. Webster scholar F. L. Lucas asked in the \"New Statesman\", \"Who can hope to speak passionate verse lying on one elbow on the floor?\"\n\nA London production in 1947 at the Duchess Theatre directed by Michael Benthall featured Hugh Griffith as Monticelso, Patrick Macnee as Hortensio/Spanish Ambassador, Claire Bloom as one of the Ladies of Brachiano's court, Margaret Rawlings as Vittoria and Andrew Cruickshank as the Duke of Florence.\n\nIn 1965, an Off-Broadway production was staged at the Circle in the Square starring Frank Langella as Flamineo, Carrie Nye as Vittoria, Paul Stevens as Brachiano, Robert Burr as Francisco, Eric Berry as Monticelso and Christina Pickles as Cornelia. The production ran from 6 December 1965 to 17 April 1966 and won the Obie Award for Distinguished Performance (Frank Langella).\n\nIn November 1969, the National Theatre at the Old Vic in London, performed the play in a production by Frank Dunlop (who went on to found the Young Vic). The cast was largely drawn from the company. Geraldine McEwan played Vittoria, Edward Woodward Flamineo, Edward Petherbridge Lodovico, Benjamin Whitrow Camillo, Derek Godfrey Bracciano, Jane Lapotaire Zanche, Hazel Hughes Cornelia, John Moffatt Monticelso, Jane Wenham Isabella, Anthony Nicholls Francisco and Edward Hardwicke Marcello. In later performances Derek Jacobi played Lodovico. It was designed by Piero Gherardi as a crumbling wall out of which characters emerged like crawling insects in fantastic costumes of great extravagance. William Hobbs staged the fights and played the Spanish Ambassador. Mime work was by Claude Chagrin. The assistant director was Roland Joffe (since then the director of \"The Killing Fields\" and \"The Mission\").\n\nThe Royal Shakespeare Company performed \"The White Devil\" in 1996 at the Swan Theatre in Stratford-upon-Avon (later transferred to London to The Pit at The Barbican), directed by Gale Edwards with Richard McCabe as Flamineo, Philip Quast as Ludovico, Ray Fearon as Brachiano, Jane Gurnett as Vittoria, Stephen Boxer as Francisco and Philip Voss. The company returned to the play in 2014 with a production in the Swan Theatre in Stratford-upon-Avon, directed by Maria Aberg with David Sturzaker as Bracciano, Kirsty Bushell as Vittoria, David Rintoul as Cardinal Monticelso, Simon Scardifield as Francisco and Joseph Arkley as Ludovico; in this production, Flamineo, Vittoria's brother, was played by a woman (Laura Elphinstone).\n\nOn 01 March 1997, the BBC World Service broadcast an adaptation starring Anton Lesser and Helen Baxendale.\n\nOn 15 August 2010 BBC Radio 3 broadcast a production adapted and directed by Marc Beeby which, according to the BBC Radio 3 web site, \"sets the action in a murky underworld of the 1950s – a world that seeks to hide its shifting alliances, betrayals and sudden violence beneath a flaky veneer of honour and respectability.\" The production featured Patrick Kennedy as Flamineo, Anna Maxwell Martin as Vittoria, Frances de la Tour as Cornelia, Shaun Dingwall as Brachiano, Peter Wright as Francisco, Sean Baker as Monticelso and Harry Myers as Ludovico.\n\nOn 26 January 2017 a run started at the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse, London (a venue embodying the features of a typical theatre from the period of the original seventeenth century production).\n\nTo date, this play has never been filmed or televised.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13341876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13341876", "title": "Threat", "text": "Threat\n\nA threat is a \"communicated\" intent to inflict harm or loss on another person. A threat is considered an act of coercion. Threats (intimidation) are widely observed in animal behavior, particularly in a ritualized form, chiefly in order to avoid the unnecessary physical violence that can lead to physical damage or the death of both conflicting parties.\n\nSome of the more common types of threats forbidden by law are those made with an intent to obtain a monetary advantage or to compel a person to act against his or her will. In all US states, it is an offense to threaten to (1) use a deadly weapon on another person; (2) injure another's person or property; or (3) injure another's reputation.\n\nIn Brazil, the crime of threatening someone, defined as a threat to cause unjust and grave harm, is punishable by a fine or three months to one year in prison, as described in the Brazilian Penal Code, article 147. Brazilian jurisprudence does not treat as a crime a threat that was proffered in a heated discussion.\n\nThe German \"Strafgesetzbuch\" § 241 punishes the crime of threat with a prison term for up to one year or a fine. Even if someone, against his better judgment, feigns to another person that the realization of a serious criminal offense directed against him or a person close to him is imminent, shall be similarly punished.\n\nIn the United States, federal law criminalizes certain true threats transmitted via the U.S. mail or in interstate commerce. It also criminalizes threatening the government officials of the United States. Some U.S. states criminalize cyberbullying. Threats of bodily harm are called assault.\n\nA true threat is a threatening communication that can be prosecuted under the law. It is distinct from a threat that is made in jest. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that true threats are not protected under the U.S. Constitution based on three justifications: preventing fear, preventing the disruption that follows from that fear, and diminishing the likelihood that the threatened violence will occur. There is some concern that even satirical speech could be regarded as a \"true threat\" due to concern over terrorism.\n\nThe true threat doctrine was established in the 1969 Supreme Court case \"Watts v. United States\". In that case, an eighteen-year-old male was convicted in a Washington, D.C. District Court for violating a statute prohibiting persons from knowingly and willfully making threats to harm or kill the President of the United States. The conviction was based on a statement made by Watts, in which he said, \"[i]f they ever make me carry a rifle the first man I want to get in my sights is L.B.J.\" Watts appealed, leading to the Supreme Court finding the statute constitutional on its face, but reversing the conviction of Watts. \n\nIn reviewing the lower court's analysis of the case, the Court noted that \"a threat must be distinguished from what is constitutionally protected speech.\" The Court recognized that \"uninhibited, robust, and wideopen\" political debate can at times be characterized by \"vehement, caustic, and sometimes unpleasantly sharp attacks on government and public officials.\" In light of the context of Watts' statement - and the laughter that it received from the crowd - the Court found that it was more \"a kind of very crude offensive method of stating a political opposition to the President\" than a \"true threat.\" In so holding, the Court established that there is a \"true threat\" exception to protected speech, but also that the statement must be viewed in its context and distinguished from protected hyperbole. The opinion, however, stopped short of defining precisely what constituted a \"true threat.\" \n"}
{"id": "1908660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908660", "title": "Tienilic acid", "text": "Tienilic acid\n\nTienilic acid (INN and BAN) or ticrynafen (USAN) is a loop diuretic drug with uric acid-lowering (uricosuric) action, formerly marketed for the treatment of hypertension. It was approved by FDA on May 2, 1979, and withdrawn in 1982, after case reports in the United States indicated a link between the use of ticrynafen and hepatitis.\n\nCriminal charges were brought against SmithKline executives with regard to hiding data related to toxicity while gaining FDA approval. The company pleaded guilty to 14 counts of failure to report adverse reactions and 20 counts of selling a misbranded drug.\n\nTienilic acid was found to act as a suicide substrate at the cytochrome P450 enzymes involved in drug metabolism. However, the metabolic reaction carried out by these enzymes converted tienilic acid to a thiophene sulfoxide which was highly electrophilic. This encouraged a Michael reaction leading to alkylation of a thiol group in the enzyme's active site. Loss of water from the thiophene sulfoxide restored the thiophene ring and resulted in tienilic acid being covalently linked to the enzyme, thus inhibiting the enzyme irreversibly.\n\nIn addition sera of patients who had liver failure after taking this drug contained antibodies recognizing CYP2C9 able to hydroxylate the drug and to give covalent binding.\n\nThe above explanation is a hypothesis. It is still not known (after 15 years) if the reactive intermediate which inactivates the CYP2C9 is the thiophene sulfoxide or the thiophene epoxide. The target on the protein is also not known (could be multiple). However tienilic acid is a good mechanism based inhibitor of CYP2C9 and seems to inactivate it stoichiometrically. Progress in proteomics may one day give the answer.\n\nRecent studies indicate that in fact the primary metabolite of tienilic acid (5-OH tienilic acid) cannot be derived from a thiophene-S-oxide intermediate as was previously hypothesized. It was determined to be derived from a thiophene epoxide intermediate and this reactive intermediate is then likely a cause for the covalent binding to as well as mechanism-based inactivation of CYP2C9.\n"}
{"id": "3101131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3101131", "title": "Treva Throneberry", "text": "Treva Throneberry\n\nTreva Joyce Throneberry (born May 18, 1969) is an American woman who spent most of her twenties pretending to be a teenager and engaging in other forms of con artistry, for which she would eventually be convicted and imprisoned. She made numerous false claims of sexual abuse, including that she was a victim of satanic ritual abuse to gain money. During this time she traveled the United States, residing in foster homes, colleges and with any family that would take her in, using false identities. Her father, Carl Throneberry, said: \"She's just going cross-country and using different names and receiving welfare.\"\n\nAs of 2003, she falsely claimed to be a woman named Brianna Stewart who was born in 1981.\n\nArrested in 2001 and charged with fraud and perjury, her true identity was established by DNA testing. Court-appointed psychologists deemed Throneberry to not be delusional, and that she knew what she was doing. She was convicted and was given a three-year sentence at a correctional center in Gig Harbor, Washington. Throneberry was released after serving two years and three months of her sentence.\n\nTreva Joyce Throneberry was born on May 18, 1969, in Wichita Falls, Texas, to Carl and Patsy Throneberry. Her father had dropped out of school in the sixth grade and, as an adult, \"didn't know how to spell\". Her family later moved to Electra, Texas. She and her sisters were sexually abused by their uncle Billy Ray while growing up. Throneberry moved from Electra to Wichita Falls, Texas, in December 1985 when she was 15 years old, and enrolled in the local high school. She began to tell stories about how she had been abducted and raped by Satanists.\n\nIn May 1986, Throneberry threatened to kill herself and was sent to a local mental hospital, Wichita Falls State Hospital, for five months. While there, doctors said her condition was a characterological disorder and she was given Trilafon, Tofranil and Xanax. She refused to speak with her family when they visited. When she was discharged in October 1986, she was transferred to the Lena Pope Home for Troubled Girls, a residential treatment center in Fort Worth, Texas. While at Lena Pope, her therapist set a goal for her: to develop and maintain interpersonal relationships. She kept a distance from her family, only sending a letter now and then.\n\nThroneberry graduated from Arlington Heights High School in Fort Worth, Texas in 1987 and moved to Arlington, Texas. In Arlington, she rented her own apartment and worked as a hotel maid.\n\nFor most of the 1990s, Throneberry wandered around the country using various names and identities. She said she was a teenager with an abusive background, lived in homeless shelters and foster homes and enrolled in local high schools. She said that her Satanist father had raped her and killed her mother and also accused her foster parents, and other families that had taken her in, of sexual abuse for which police could not find any evidence. All cases were dismissed.\n\nIn 1993, Throneberry was living in Corvallis, Oregon, and passing herself off as a teenager named \"Keili T. Throneberry Smitt\" and \"Keili Smitt\". She was staying with a family she had met at a church. Throneberry went to court in Benton County, Oregon, to legally change her name to Keili Smitt. Throneberry falsely reported to Corvallis police officers she had been raped by her father, who she at that point falsely claimed was a police officer, in Oregon. Thorneberry was charged with filing the false police report in Oregon.\n\nIn 1996, Throneberry was in Altoona, Pennsylvania. She said that her name was \"Stephanie Danielle Lewis\" and that she was sixteen and was fleeing her Satanist parents with the help of the religious underground. After eighteen days of investigation, police contacted a girl she had known in Texas and found out who she really was. She was arrested, charged with giving false information and sentenced to nine days in jail. After her release she disappeared again and continued her wandering.\n\nIn 1997, when she was acting as 17-year-old \"Brianna Stewart\" in Portland, Oregon, and Vancouver, Washington, she falsely accused a 47-year-old security guard named Charles Blankenship of rape. She was actually 28 at the time. He was convicted in Clark County, Washington, of \"having sex with a minor\" and sentenced to 50 days in jail. After her fraud was exposed, a judge expunged Blankenship's conviction.\n\nBeginning in 1998, between the ages of 27 and 31, she spent five years in Vancouver, Washington, posing as an initially 16-year-old Evergreen High School student named \"Brianna Stewart\", living in various strangers' homes. She had a 2.83 grade-point average and got a D grade in drama class. She had a boyfriend for a year and a half, Kenny Dunn, and told him about her alleged abuse. First she claimed that she originated from Mobile, Alabama. Sympathetic benefactors gave her money and shelter but she eventually betrayed their trust by making false claims of abuse. In hindsight, many of the foster homes said they began to suspect that she was not a teenager. One dentist noticed that Stewart no longer had wisdom teeth and that the scars from their extraction were healed, unusual in a teenager.\n\nThroneberry, as \"Brianna Stewart\" graduated from Evergreen High School with the class of 2000 and enrolled at Clark College.\n\nIn 2016, Throneberry resurfaced under the alias \"Brianna Kenzie\", accusing a local man of sexually assaulting her while she worked as a hotel employee. She was later fired after hotel employees learned of her prior record.\n\nHer story inspired episode 21 of season 8 (\"Pretend\") of .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28725144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28725144", "title": "Waga Hip Hop Festival", "text": "Waga Hip Hop Festival\n\nWaga Hip Hop is one of the major international hip hop festivals taking place in West Africa. Each year, around early and mid-October, Ouagadougou (Burkina Faso) thus welcomes international artists and media to attend this festival of urban cultures.\n\nCreated in 2000, Waga Hip Hop is the flagship event of the association Umane Culture. This association stands out as an active cultural structure, which develops multidisciplinary projects, in music, theatre, dance and tales, created in 1997 by Ali Diallo (member of the Export Bureau of African Music, BEMA). The latest realisation of Umane Culture was the creation, in November 2008, of the first Burkinabé music market, Saga Musik.\n\nAt first, Waga Hip Hop was organised with local hip hop artists solely at a time when Hip Hop was booming in Burkina Faso (2001–2003) mainly thanks to the arrival of an initial studio (Abazon) whose arranger was specialised in hip hop productions (Smockey). However, very quickly, Waga Hip Hop reached an international scale, notably in 2002, with the support of international cultural organisations. Since then, and for each of its editions, Waga Hip Hop has welcomed artists coming from throughout the continent. With respect, it stands as one of the most visible festivals dedicated to the urban cultures in the West African region. Unsurprisingly, Waga Hip Hop, as a yearly event, has now raised international consideration.\n\nEach year, Waga Hip Hop aims at being as largely as possible representative of all the urban cultures. As such, Waga Hip Hop not only welcomes in its organisation showcases and performances of hip hop artists but also those of other urban artists such as the now well-known Victor Démé who was discovered through a performance he gave during the festival. Besides, Waga Hip Hop regularly holds artistic residencies dedicated to the various disciplines of urban cultures such as hip hop dance, beatbox and other vocal urban music. Its most famous production is “Waka Tibio”, which came out of the artistic residencies held during the 2008 and 2009 editions, and welcomed the joint performances of Fredy Massamba (DRC), King Ayisoba (Ghana), Awa Sissao (Burkina Faso) and DJ Gee Bayss (Senegal).\n\nBesides, with the desire to expand its contribution to the whole country, Waga Hip Hop holds events in the capital city, i.e. Ouagadougou as well as throughout the country, in the different regional cities (Ouahigouya, Fada N’Gourma, Bobo Dioulasso, Pô, Koudougou). Not only a space of creation and diffusion, Waga Hip Hop also stands as an important sphere of training and formation. Indeed, and in order to support the development of the local cultural community, the festival yearly organises workshops dedicated to the local cultural operators as well as to the artists.\n\nThe principal partners of Waga Hip Hop are the Francophonia International Organisation (OIF), Africalia (Belgium), Culture France but also Staycalm!, a Paris-based artistic collective which has been supporting Waga Hip Hop since its early years. Staycalm! has now become well known for its multimedia production on West African Hip Hop, “Fangafrika”.\n\n\n\n\"More information on the artists and organizations mentioned above can be found on their MySpace pages\".\n"}
