{"id": "3330694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3330694", "title": "1686 in music", "text": "1686 in music\n\nThis is a list of notable events in music that took place in the year 1686.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34987345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34987345", "title": "1775–1795 in Western fashion", "text": "1775–1795 in Western fashion\n\nFashion in the twenty years between 1775–1795 in Western culture became simpler and less elaborate. These changes were a result of emerging modern ideals of selfhood, the declining fashionability of highly elaborate Rococo styles, and the widespread embrace of the rationalistic or \"classical\" ideals of Enlightenment philosophes.\n\nIt is also at this time when the concept of fashion, as it is known today, begins. Prior to this point, clothes as a means of self-expression were limited. Guild-controlled systems of production and distribution, and the sumptuary laws made clothing both hard to come by and expensive for the common people. However, by 1750 the consumer revolution brought about cheaper copies of fashionable styles, allowing members of all classes to partake in fashionable dress. Thus, fashion begins to represent an expression of individuality. The constant change in dress mirrored political and social ideals of the time.\n\nAs the radicals and Jacobins became more powerful, there was a revulsion against high-fashion because of its extravagance and its association with royalty and aristocracy. It was replaced with a sort of \"anti-fashion\" for men and women that emphasized simplicity and modesty. The men wore plain, dark clothing and short unpowdered hair. During the Terror of 1794, the workaday outfits of the sans-culottes symbolized Jacobin egalitarianism.\n\nHigh fashion and extravagance returned to France and its satellite states under the Directory, 1795–99, with its \"directoire\" styles; the men did not return to extravagant customs. These trends would reach their height in the classically-styled fashions of the late 1790s and early 19th century. For men, coats, waistcoats and stockings of previous decades continued to be fashionable across the Western world, although they too changed silhouette in this period, becoming slimmer and using earthier colors and more matte fabrics.\n\nWomen's clothing styles maintained an emphasis on the conical shape of the torso while the shape of the skirts changed throughout the period. The wide panniers (holding the skirts out at the side) for the most part disappeared by 1780 for all but the most formal court functions, and false rumps (bum-pads or hip-pads) were worn for a time.\n\nMarie Antoinette had a marked influence on French fashion beginning in the 1780s. Around this time, she had begun to rebel against the structure of court life. She abolished her morning toilette and often escaped to the Petit Trianon with increasing frequency, leading to criticism of her exclusivity by cutting off the traditional right of the aristocracy to their monarch. Marie Antoinette found refuge from the stresses of the rigidity of court life and the scrutiny of the public eye, the ailing health of her children, and her sense of powerlessness in her marriage by carrying out a pseudo-country life in her newly constructed hameau. She and an elite circle of friends would dress in peasant clothing and straw hats and retreat to the hameau. It was out of this practice that her style of dress evolved.\n\nBy tradition, a lady of the court was instantaneously recognizable by her panniers, corset and weighty silk materials that constructed her gown in the style of à la française or à l'anglaise. By doing away with these things, Marie Antoinette's gaulle or chemise á la Reine stripped female aristocrats of their traditional identity; noblewomen could now be confused with peasant girls, confusing long standing sartorial differences in class. The chemise was made from a white muslin and the queen was further accused of importing foreign fabrics and crippling the French silk industry. The gaulle consisted of thin layers of this muslin, loosely draped around the body and belted at the waist, and was often worn with an apron and a fichu. This trend was quickly adopted by fashionable women in France and England, but upon the debut of the portrait of Marie Antoinette by Elisabeth Vigée-Lebrun, the clothing style created a scandal and increased the hatred for the queen. The queen's clothing in the portrait looked like a chemise, nothing more than a garment that women wore under her other clothing or to lounge in the intimate space of the private boudoir. It was perceived to be indecent, and especially unbecoming for the queen. The sexual nature of the gaulle undermined the notions of status and the ideology that gave her and kept her in power. Marie Antoinette wanted to be private and individual, a notion unbecoming for a member of the monarchy that is supposed to act as a symbol of the state.\n\nWhen Marie Antoinette turned thirty, she decided it was no longer decent for her to dress in this way and returned to more acceptable courtly styles, though she still dressed her children in the style of the gaulle, which may have continued to reflect badly on the opinion of their mother even though she was making visible efforts to rein in her own previous fashion excess. However, despite the distaste with the queen's inappropriate fashions, and her own switch back to traditional dress later in life, the gaulle became a popular garment in both France and abroad. Despite its controversial beginnings, the simplicity of the style and material became the custom and had a great influence on the transition into the neoclassical styles of the late 1790s.\n\nDuring the years of the French Revolution, women's dress expanded into different types of national costume. Women wore variations of white skirts, topped with revolutionary colored striped jackets, as well as white Greek chemise gowns, accessorized with shawls, scarves, and ribbons.\n\nBy 1790, skirts were still somewhat full, but they were no longer obviously pushed out in any particular direction (though a slight bustle pad might still be worn). The \"pouter-pigeon\" front came into style (many layers of cloth pinned over the bodice), but in other respects women's fashions were starting to be simplified by influences from Englishwomen's country outdoors wear (thus the \"redingote\" was the French pronunciation of an English \"riding coat\"), and from neo-classicism. By 1795, waistlines were somewhat raised, preparing the way for the development of the empire silhouette and unabashed neo-classicism of late 1790s fashions.\n\nThe usual fashion at the beginning of the period was a low-necked gown (usually called in French a \"robe\"), worn over a petticoat. Most gowns had skirts that opened in front to show the petticoat worn beneath. As part of the general simplification of dress, the open bodice with a separate stomacher was replaced by a bodice with edges that met center front.\n\nThe \"robe à la française\" or sack-back gown, with back pleats hanging loosely from the neckline, long worn as court fashion, made its last appearance early in this period. A fitted bodice held the front of the gown closely to the figure.\n\nThe \"robe à l'anglaise\" or close-bodied gown featured back pleats sewn in place to fit closely to the body, and then released into the skirt which would be draped in various ways. Elaborate draping \"à la polonaise\" became fashionable by the mid-1770s, featuring backs of the gowns' skirts pulled up into swags either through loops or through the pocket slits of the gown.\n\nFront-wrapping thigh-length \"shortgowns\" or bedgowns of lightweight printed cotton fabric remained fashionable at-home morning wear, worn with petticoats. Over time, bedgowns became the staple upper garment of British and American female working-class street. Women would also often wear a neck handkerchief, sometimes for modesty reasons. In surviving artwork, there are few women depicted wearing bedgowns without a handkerchief. These large handkerchiefs could be of linen, plain, colored or of printed cotton for working wear. Wealthy women wore handkerchiefs of fine, sheer fabrics, often trimmed with lace or embroidery with their expensive gowns.\n\nAn informal alternative to the dress was a costume of a jacket and petticoat, based on working class fashion but executed in finer fabrics with a tighter fit.\n\nThe \"caraco\" was a jacket-like bodice worn with a petticoat, with elbow-length sleeves. By the 1790s, caracos had full-length, tight sleeves.\n\nAs in previous periods, the traditional riding habit consisted of a tailored jacket like a man's coat, worn with a high-necked shirt, a waistcoat, a petticoat, and a hat. Alternatively, the jacket and a false waistcoat-front might be a made as a single garment, and later in the period a simpler riding jacket and petticoat (without waistcoat) could be worn.\n\nAnother alternative to the traditional habit was a coat-dress called a \"joseph\" or \"riding coat\" (borrowed in French as redingote), usually of unadorned or simply trimmed woolen fabric, with full-length, tight sleeves and a broad collar with lapels or revers. The redingote was later worn as an overcoat with the light-weight chemise dress.\n\nThe shift, chemise (in France), or smock, had a low neckline and elbow-length sleeves which were full early in the period and became increasingly narrow as the century progressed. Drawers were not worn in this period.\n\nStrapless stays were cut high at the armpit, to encourage a woman to stand with her shoulders slightly back, a fashionable posture. The fashionable shape was a rather conical torso, with large hips. The waist was not particularly small. Stays were usually laced snugly, but comfortably; only those interested in extreme fashions laced tightly. They offered back support for heavy lifting, and poor and middle class women were able to work comfortably in them. As the relaxed, country fashion took hold in France, stays were sometimes replaced by a lightly boned garment called \"un corset,\" though this style did not achieve popularity in England, where stays remained standard through the end of the period.\n\nPanniers or side-hoops remained an essential of court fashion but disappeared everywhere else in favor of a few petticoats. Free-hanging pockets were tied around the waist and were accessed through \"pocket slits\" in the side-seams of the gown or petticoat. Woolen or quilted waistcoats were worn over the stays or corset and under the gown for warmth, as were petticoats quilted with wool batting, especially in the cold climates of Northern Europe and America.\n\nShoes had high, curved heels (the origin of modern \"louis heels\") and were made of fabric or leather. Shoe buckles remained fashionable until they were abandoned along with high-heeled footwear and other aristocratic fashions in the years after the French Revolution, The long upper also was eliminated, essentially leaving only the toes of the foot covered. The slippers that were ordinarily worn with shoes were abandoned because the shoes had become comfortable enough to be worn without them. Fans continued to be popular in this time period, however, they were increasingly replaced, outdoors at least, by the parasol. Indoors the fan was still carried exclusively. Additionally, women began using walking sticks.\n\nThe 1770s were notable for extreme hairstyles and wigs which were built up very high, and often incorporated decorative objects (sometimes symbolic, as in the case of the famous engraving depicting a lady wearing a large ship in her hair with masts and sails—called the \"Coiffure à l'Indépendance ou le Triomphe de la liberté\"—to celebrate naval victory in the American war of independence). These coiffures were parodied in several famous satirical caricatures of the period.\n\nBy the 1780s, elaborate hats replaced the former elaborate hairstyles. Mob caps and other \"country\" styles were worn indoors. Flat, broad-brimmed and low-crowned straw \"shepherdess\" hats tied on with ribbons were worn with the new rustic styles.\n\nHair was powdered into the early 1780s, but the new fashion required natural colored hair, often dressed simply in a mass of curls.\n\n\nThroughout the period, men continued to wear the coat, waistcoat and breeches. However, changes were seen in both the fabric used as well as the cut of these garments. More attention was paid to individual pieces of the suit, and each element underwent stylistic changes. Under new enthusiasms for outdoor sports and country pursuits, the elaborately embroidered silks and velvets characteristic of \"full dress\" or formal attire earlier in the century gradually gave way to carefully tailored woolen \"undress\" garments for all occasions except the most formal.\n\nIn Boston and Philadelphia in the decades around the American Revolution, the adoption of plain undress styles was a conscious reaction to the excesses of European court dress; Benjamin Franklin caused a sensation by appearing at the French court in his own hair (rather than a wig) and the plain costume of Quaker Philadelphia.\n\nAt the other extreme was the \"macaroni\".\n\nIn the United States, only the first five Presidents, from George Washington to James Monroe, dressed according to this fashion, including wearing of powdered wigs, tricorne hats and knee-breeches.\nThe latest-born notable person to be portrayed wearing a powdered wig tied in a queue according to this fashion was Grand Duke Constantine Pavlovich of Russia (born in 1779, portrayed in 1795).\n\nBy the 1770s, coats exhibited a tighter, narrower cut than seen in earlier periods, and were occasionally double-breasted. Toward the 1780s, the skirts of the coat began to be cutaway in a curve from the front waist. Waistcoats gradually shortened until they were waist-length and cut straight across. Waistcoats could be made with or without sleeves. As in the previous period, a loose, T-shaped silk, cotton or linen gown called a banyan was worn at home as a sort of dressing gown over the shirt, waistcoat, and breeches. Men of an intellectual or philosophical bent were painted wearing banyans, with their own hair or a soft cap rather than a wig. This aesthetic overlapped slightly with the female fashion of the skirt and proves the way in which male and female fashions reflected one another as styles became less rigid and more suitable for movement and leisure.\n\nA coat with a wide collar called a frock coat, derived from a traditional working-class coat, was worn for hunting and other country pursuits in both Britain and America. Although originally designed as sporting wear, frock coats gradually came into fashion as everyday wear. The frock coat was cut with a turned down collar, reduced side pleats, and small, round cuffs, sometimes cut with a slit to allow for added movement. Sober, natural colors were worn, and coats were made from woolen cloth, or a wool and silk mix.\n\nShirt sleeves were full, gathered at the wrist and dropped shoulder. Full-dress shirts had ruffles of fine fabric or lace, while undress shirts ended in plain wrist bands. A small turnover collar returned to fashion, worn with the stock. In England, clean, white linen shirts were considered important in Men's attire. The cravat reappeared at the end of the period.\n\nAs coats became cutaway, more attention was paid to the cut and fit of the breeches. Breeches fitted snugly and had a fall-front opening.\n\nLow-heeled leather shoes fastened with shoe buckles were worn with silk or woolen stockings. Boots were worn for riding. The buckles were either polished metal, usually in silver (sometimes with the metal cut into false stones in the Paris style) or with paste stones, although there were other types. These buckles were often quite large and one of the world's largest collections can be seen at Kenwood House; with the French Revolution they were abandoned in France as a signifier of aristocracy.\n\nWigs were worn for formal occasions, or the hair was worn long and powdered, brushed back from the forehead and \"clubbed\" (tied back at the nape of the neck) with a black ribbon.\n\nThe wide-brimmed tricorne hats turned up on three sides were now turned up front and back or on the sides to form bicornes. Toward the end of the period, a tall, slightly conical hat with a narrower brim became fashionable (this would evolve into the top hat in the next period).\n\n\nIn the late 18th century, new philosophies of child-rearing led to clothes that were thought especially suitable for children. Toddlers wore washable dresses called frocks of linen or cotton. British and American boys after perhaps three began to wear rather short pantaloons and short jackets, and for very young boys the skeleton suit was introduced. These gave the first real alternative to boys' dresses, and became fashionable across Europe.\n\n\nWorking-class people in 18th-century England and the United States often wore the same garments as fashionable people: shirts, waistcoats, coats and breeches for men, and shifts, petticoats, and dresses or jackets for women. However, they owned fewer clothes, which were made of cheaper and sturdier fabrics. Working-class men also wore short jackets, and some (especially sailors) wore trousers rather than breeches. Smock-frocks were a regional style for men, especially shepherds. Country women wore short hooded cloaks, most often red. Both sexes wore handkerchiefs or neckerchiefs.\n\nMen's felt hats were worn with the brims flat rather than cocked or turned up. Men and women wore shoes with shoe buckles (when they could afford them). Men who worked with horses wore boots.\n\nDuring the French Revolution, men's costume became particularly emblematic of the movement of the people and the upheaval of the aristocratic French society. It was the long pant, hemmed near the ankles, that displaced the knee-length breeches culottes that marked the aristocratic classes. Working-class men had worn long pants for much of their history, and the rejection of culottes became a symbol of working class, and later French, resentment of the Ancien Régime. The movement would be given the all-encompassing title of sans-culottes, wearing the same as the working class. There was no culotte \"uniform\" per se, but as they were turned into a larger symbol of French society, they had certain attributes attributed to them. In contemporary art and description, culottes become associated with the Phrygian cap a classical symbol. French citizens on all levels of society were obligated to wear the blue, white and red of the French flag on their clothing, often in the form of the pinned the blue-and-red cockade of Paris onto the white cockade of the \"Ancien Régime\", thus producing the original \"Tricolore\" cockade. Later, distinctive colours and styles of cockade would indicate the wearer's faction although the meanings of the various styles were not entirely consistent and varied somewhat by region and period.\n\nIn the 17th century, a cockade was pinned on the side of a man's tricorne or cocked hat, or on his lapel. \n\n\nThese two images provide 1790s views of the development of fashion during the 18th century (click on images for more information):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35626783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35626783", "title": "A Dialogue between Joseph Smith and the Devil", "text": "A Dialogue between Joseph Smith and the Devil\n\n\"A Dialogue between Joseph Smith and the Devil\" (or \"Joe Smith and the Devil\") is an 1844 short story by Parley P. Pratt, generally credited as the first work of Mormon fiction. A piece of closet drama, \"Dialogue\" begins with the devil putting up handbills:\nThey engage in a conversation which manages wit while still engaging in Pratt's proselytory purposes. The two part on friendly terms:\n\nThe story first appeared on the front page of the \"New York Herald\", August 25, 1844.\n\n"}
{"id": "55202409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55202409", "title": "Abbey's Park Theatre", "text": "Abbey's Park Theatre\n\nAbbey's Park Theatre or Abbey's New Park Theatre was a playhouse at 932 Broadway and 22nd Street, New York City. It opened as the New Park Theatre in 1874, and was in use until 1882 when it burned down and was never rebuilt as a theatre.\n\nThe theatre stood on a plot of land 60 x 100 feet (20 x 30 meters). The façade was \"plain and substantial, rather than ornamental.\" It was made of Philadelphia brick with trimmings of Nova Scotia stone.\n\nThe auditorium was 60 x 60 feet (20 x 20 m) with a parquet or orchestra circle, dress circle, and gallery. There were 12 proscenium boxes, six on each side of the stage. The stage was 34 x 60 feet and 52 feet to the girders. The proscenium was 26 feet wide and 24 feet to the top of the arch. The cost of the building (exclusive of the plot of land upon which it stood) was expected to be $100,000.\n\nThe color scheme in the auditorium was French gray, and gold, with lines of red for relief.\n\nThe New Park Theatre, designed by Frederic Draper, was built on the site of a previous theatre from May 1873 – March 1874 by Dion Boucicault and William Stuart at a cost of $100,000. They had previously been involved with the Winter Garden Theatre, which Boucicault left in 1860 and was destroyed in March 1867 in a fire which almost cost Stuart his life. \n\nAn advance description of the New Park appeared in the \"New York Times\" on 31 May 1872. In July 1872 Draper, the architect, put forward an enlarged design. This included buying an adjacent plot of land, whose rightful ownership was mired in litigation. The theatre was meant to open in October 1873 but a deadlock in litigation dragged on for so long that Boucicault and Stuart cancelled the opening. In the end another suitable plot came up for sale, and work progressed. The available artistes were re-engaged. By the end of March 1874 the work was nearly complete.\nBoucicault had been announced to be interested in the management, but withdrew just before the theatre opened: and Stuart teamed up instead with the actor, playwright and theatre manager Charles Fechter to run the house. The New Park Theatre opened on 13 April or 15 April 1874 with William Stuart as manager, and Fechter appearing in his own play \"Love's Penance\", an adaptation of \"Le médecin des enfants\" by Count d'Avrigny. Edwin Booth, who had been with Stuart at the Winter Garden, was fairly scathing about the whole enterprise:\n\n\"Love's Penance\" closed on May 6, 1874, and shortly after Fechter withdrew from the management and retired. Stuart suffered financial embarrassments, and the theatre may have been shut down by the Sheriff on more than one occasion. The house remained closed until the fall of 1874, when John T. Raymond performed Mark Twain's \"Colonel Sellers\" for 100 nights. This was followed by the Grau-Chizzola company in Charles Lecocq's \"Giroflé-Girofla\", and George Fawcett Rowe appeared in his own play \"Brass\".\n\nThe following season Stuart presented Mr. & Mrs. William J. Florence in Benjamin E. Woolf's \"The Mighty Dollar\" which reached its 100th performance on 13 December 1875. Gold medals were struck for the occasion, but the calamitous failure of Oakey Hall (former Mayor of New York 1869–1872) in his own play \"The Crucible\", and an unprofitable production of F. Marsden's \"The Clouds\" early in the winter season of 1876 left him unable to carry on, and Stuart swiftly relinquished control of his theatre.\n\nIn November 1876 Henry E. Abbey took over the management of the house and renamed the New Park Theatre to Abbey's Park Theatre. Abbey was associated with John B. Schoeffel, and later with Maurice Grau in the theatrical management partnership of Abbey, Schoeffel and Grau.\n\nThe shows were light comedies and farces; and the theatre saw the beginning of the combination of Stuart Robson and W. H. Crane. Acts like Helena Modjeska, and Thomas W. Keene in Shakespeare (especially Richard III) performed there.\n\nAbbey put on popular successes like \"Our Boarding House\", set in Chicago, by Leonard Grover, starring Stuart Robson, W. H. Crane and William E. Sheridan. It opened on 29 January 1877 and played for 104 performances, running for at least eight weeks to March 1877. Among Abbey's many artistes one of the biggest names was Lotta, a light-comedy star. She was one of the highest-paid actress in America, earning sums of up to $5,000 per week.\n\nBoucicault's \"Dot\", a dramatisation of Charles Dickens's \"The Cricket on the Hearth\" with John E. Owens played at the Park Theatre from 20 January 1879. \"Divorçons\" by Victorien Sardou opened at Abbey's New Park Theatre on 1 April 1882.\n\nOn one of his trips to Europe looking for new stars, Abbey saw Lilly Langtry perform in Edinburgh, and offered her a season in America. Langtry's tour of the US was due to open at the Park Theatre on 30 October 1882, but during the day the building was completely demolished by fire and was never rebuilt.\n\nThe next day the papers implicated Langtry in the misfortune. They declared that the burning of the Park Theatre was the biggest and costliest advertisement ever designed to welcome a star to America's shores. Langtry presented Tom Taylor's \"An Unequal Match\" a week later to capacity houses at Wallack's Theatre instead.\n\nWith Abbey's theatre—and one main source of income—gone, he and Schoeffel invited Maurice Grau to join them in partnership. The theatrical management firm of Abbey, Schoeffel and Grau went on to lease and manage the brand-new Metropolitan Opera House (the 'Old Met') for its opening season of 1883–4. It was a critical success but a financial disaster: Abbey as manager was personally responsible for losses of $250,000.\n\nSoon after Abbey's Park Theatre burned down in October 1882, another New Park Theatre opened at 1331 Broadway in 1883. It was leased by David Belasco, who survived the 1883-1884 season with a new version of his \"The Stranglers of Paris\", adapted form a story by Adolphe Belot. It played at his New Park Theatre on November 12, 1883. Belasco's adaptation of \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" (a 'Tom show') probably also played there. The New Park Theatre was renamed as the Herald Square Theatre in 1894.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12589627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12589627", "title": "Agate Bowl", "text": "Agate Bowl\n\nThe Agate Bowl () is a bowl cut out of a single piece of agate in the fourth century at the court of Constantine, and now displayed in the Imperial Treasury at the Hofburg Palace in Vienna, Austria. For centuries it was widely regarded as the \"greatest masterpiece\" and the \"best and most important piece\" in the collection. In 1564, Holy Roman Emperor Maximillian II and his brothers declared it by deed to be an \"inalienable heirloom of the house of Austria\". They valued this ancient precious stone carving, not just for its craftsmanship, but for a \"natural miracle\" in the stone itself that reveals a mysterious inscription—the name \"XRISTO\" (\"Christ\") at the bottom of the bowl within the grain of the stone. It is now generally believed that the inscription inspired the legend that the bowl was the Holy Grail. The Agate Bowl is the largest carved stone bowl in the world.\n\nThe Agate Bowl is 76 cm (30 in) wide including the handles. The bowl is cut from a single, massive block of agate, the largest carved stone bowl in the world.\n\nThe Agate Bowl dates from the fourth century and is believed to have been created at the court of Constantine. Its first documented reference is in a deed from 1564 written by Holy Roman Emperor Maximillian II and his brothers, declaring the bowl to be an \"inalienable heirloom of the house of Austria\", to be owned by the entire House of Habsburg. In 1619, an inventory of the estate of Holy Roman Emperor Matthias records, \"the word KRISTO is to be seen in quite large letters in the nature of the stone\".\n\nFrom the seventeenth to the twentieth century, documented descriptions of an inscription \"B.XRISTO.RI.XXPP\" was seen as a reference to Jesus Christ. Because the writing seemed to be neither painted nor carved in the bowl, but appeared in the natural veining of the stone itself, the Agate Bowl was regarded a relic, even considered to be the Holy Grail.\n\nIn 1951, after the relic was restored, the inscription was reinterpreted by art historian Rudolf Egger to read \"ARISTO\", the name of the stone cutter. Others believe the inscription is in fact an optical illusion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18944271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18944271", "title": "Alexander Theatre", "text": "Alexander Theatre\n\nAlexander Theatre (, ) is a Finnish theatre in the city of Helsinki at Bulevardi 23-27, also known as Russian Theater.\n\nIn the summer of 1875, the Governor-General of Russian Finland from 1866 to 1881, Count Nikolay Adlerberg, who was a frequent theatregoer, received Alexander II of Russia's permission to build a theatre for Russians living in Helsinki. The building was designed by the engineer Colonel Pjotr Petrovitš Benard, though probably on the basis of standardized drawings. The auditorium of the theatre was decorated by the Saint Petersburg architect Jeronim Osuhovsky, and the Finnish artist Severin Falkman decorated the ceiling paintings, which depict twelve cupids, reminding of the Mariinsky Theatre in Saint Petersburg. The theatre technology was designed by Iosif Vorontsov. The theatre was completed in October 1879, and in February 1880 it was named after Russian Tsar Alexander II.\n\nThe grand opening of the theatre occurred on 30 March 1880 with Charles Gounod's \"Faust\".\n\nIn 1918 the Finnish National Opera and Ballet moved to the Alexander Theatre and remained in the premises until 1993. After the Finnish National Opera and Ballet moved to their newly-built house, the Alexander Theatre got back its historical name and once again became a theatre venue.\n\nSince 1993, the theatre has been used for guest stage performances of various genres. The theatre building also houses different offices, rehearsal facilities, dance studios and different companies.\n\nThe Alexander Theatre reportedly is haunted by the ghost of a dead officer. It is assumed that he died during the Crimea War and moved to Helsinki as the tiles of Alexander Theatre were moved there from Åland.\n"}
{"id": "16388106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16388106", "title": "Anonima group", "text": "Anonima group\n\nThe American artist collaborative, Anonima Group, was founded in Cleveland, Ohio in 1960 by Ernst Benkert, Francis Hewitt and Ed Mieczkowski. Propelled by their rejection of the cult of the ego and automatic style of the Abstract Expressionists, the artists worked collaboratively on grid-based, spatially fluctuating drawings and paintings that were precise investigations of the scientific phenomena and psychology of optical perception. The work was accompanied by writings: proposals, projects and manifestos - socialist in nature - which the artists considered essential to the experience and understanding of their work. Their drawings, paintings and writings, which had much in common with the positions of artist Ad Reinhardt, and with the Russian Constructivists, were included in the 1965 \"Responsive Eye\" exhibit at the Museum of Modern Art. Along with other artists in the exhibit, Anonima's work was incorrectly relegated to what came to be the highly commercialized and publicized category of Op Art. A recent reconsideration and recontextualization of Op Art, the expansive 2006 Optic Nerve exhibit at the Columbus Museum of Art, places the Anonima as the sole American collaborative group, along with the European Zero Group, Gruppo N, GRAV and others, who were examining new optical information at that time.\n\nFrancis Hewitt, who had a masters in art and later did course work toward a PhD in the psychology of perception, provided the conceptual framework for the Anonima Group; their projects addressed the latest information about the science and psychology of visual perception. Anonima's anti-commercial stance (see statement below), including their ultimate refusal to interact with the commercial artworld, had the effect of removing them from the lexicon of known artists from that time. In a catalog essay for Frank Hewitt's 1992 retrospective at the Robert Hull Fleming Museum in Burlington, Vermont, William C. Lipke wrote that the artists believed that \"commercialization and popularization obfuscated the real issues\" being addressed by their work. Further he writes that work by Anonima is \"better understood in light of the theories and data of perceptual psychology; the commitment to a systemic study of visual information irrespective of stylistic or economic pressures.\"\n\nThe Anonima group disbanded in 1971, but the effect of their work has extended into the present through their writing, drawings and paintings. The group's analytical and impersonal view of the creative process was balanced by a profound generosity of spirit which has influenced countless artists over the years; all three artists have had long teaching careers (Frank Hewitt died in 1992), in which they dedicated themselves to providing art students with a precise understanding of the constructs of optical perception, an invaluable foundation for any artist. Their ideas are reflected in the work of many contemporary artists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=700", "title": "Arthur Schopenhauer", "text": "Arthur Schopenhauer\n\nArthur Schopenhauer ( ; ; 22 February 1788 – 21 September 1860) was a German philosopher. He is best known for his 1818 work \"The World as Will and Representation\" (expanded in 1844), wherein he characterizes the phenomenal world as the product of a blind and insatiable metaphysical will. Proceeding from the transcendental idealism of Immanuel Kant, Schopenhauer developed an atheistic metaphysical and ethical system that has been described as an exemplary manifestation of philosophical pessimism, rejecting the contemporaneous post-Kantian philosophies of German idealism. Schopenhauer was among the first thinkers in Western philosophy to share and affirm significant tenets of Eastern philosophy (e.g., asceticism, the world-as-appearance), having initially arrived at similar conclusions as the result of his own philosophical work.\n\nThough his work failed to garner substantial attention during his life, Schopenhauer has had a posthumous impact across various disciplines, including philosophy, literature, and science. His writing on aesthetics, morality, and psychology influenced thinkers and artists throughout the 19th and 20th centuries. Those who cited his influence include Friedrich Nietzsche, Richard Wagner, Leo Tolstoy, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Erwin Schrödinger, Otto Rank, Gustav Mahler, Joseph Campbell, Albert Einstein, Carl Jung, Thomas Mann, Émile Zola, George Bernard Shaw, Jorge Luis Borges and Samuel Beckett.\n\nSchopenhauer was born on 22 February 1788, in the city of Danzig (then part of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth; present day Gdańsk, Poland) on Heiligegeistgasse (known in the present day as Św. Ducha 47), the son of Johanna Schopenhauer (née Trosiener) and Heinrich Floris Schopenhauer, both descendants of wealthy German-Dutch patrician families. Both of them weren't very religious, supported the French Revolution, were republican, cosmopolitan and Anglophile. When Danzig became part of Prussia in 1793, Heinrich moved to Hamburg - a free city with republican constitution, protected by Britain and Holland against Prussian aggression - although his firm continued trading in Danzig where most of their extended families remained. Adele, Arthur's only sibling was born on 12 July 1797.\n\nIn 1797 Arthur was sent to Le Havre to live for two years with the family of his father's business associate, Grégoire de Blésimaire. He seemed to enjoy his stay there, learned to speak French fluently and started a friendship with Jean Anthime Grégoire de Blésimaire, his peer, which lasted for a large part of their lives. As early as 1799, Arthur started playing the flute. In 1803 he joined his parents on their long tour of Holland, Britain, France, Switzerland, Austria and Prussia; it was mostly a pleasure tour although Heinrich also visited some of his business associates. Heinrich gave his son a choice - he could stay at home and start preparations for university education, or he could travel with them and then continue his merchant education. Arthur would later deeply regret his choice because he found his merchant training tedious. He spent twelve weeks of the tour attending a school in Wimbledon where he was very unhappy and appalled by very strict but intellectually shallow Anglican religiosity which he would continue to sharply criticize later in life despite his general Anglophilia. He was also under great pressure from his father who became very critical of his educational results. In fact Heinrich Floris became so fussy that even his wife started to doubt his mental health.\n\nIn 1805, Heinrich Floris died by drowning in a canal by their home in Hamburg. Although it was possible that his death was accident, his wife and son believed that it was suicide because he was very prone to unsociable behavior, anxiety and depression which became especially pronounced in his last months of life. Arthur showed similar moodiness since his youth and often acknowledged that he inherited it from his father; there were also several other instances of serious mental health issues on his father's side of family. His mother Johanna was generally described as vivacious and sociable. Despite the hardships, Schopenhauer seemed to like his father and later mentioned him always in a positive light. Heinrich Schopenhauer left the family with a decent inheritance that was split in three among Johanna and the children. Arthur Schopenhauer would be entitled to control of his part when he reached the age of majority. He invested it conservatively in government bonds and earned annual interest that was more than double the salary of a university professor.\nArthur endured two long years of drudgery as a merchant in honor of his dead father, and because of his own doubts about being too old to start a life of a scholar. Most of his prior education was practical merchant training and he had some trouble with learning Latin which was a prerequisite for any academic career. His mother soon moved with his sister Adele to Weimar—then the centre of German literature—to enjoy social life among celebrated writers and artists. Arthur lived in Hamburg with his friend Jean Anthime who was also studying to become a merchant.\n\nAfter quitting his merchant apprenticeship, with some encouragement from his mother, he dedicated himself to studies at the Gotha gymnasium () in Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg, but he also enjoyed social life among local nobility spending large amounts of money which caused concern to his frugal mother. He left Gymnasium after writing a satirical poem about one of the lecturers. Although Arthur claimed that he left voluntarily, his mother's letter indicates that he was expelled.\n\nHe moved to Weimar but didn't live with his mother who even tried to discourage him from coming by explaining that they wouldn't get along very well. Their relationship deteriorated even further due to their temperamental differences. He accused his mother of being financially irresponsible, flirtatious and seeking to remarry, which he considered an insult to his father's memory. His mother, while professing her love to him, criticized him sharply for being moody, tactless, and argumentative—and urged him to improve his behavior so he would not alienate people. Arthur concentrated on his studies which were now going very well and he also enjoyed the usual social life such as balls, parties and theater. By that time Johanna's famous salon was well established among local intellectuals and dignitaries, most celebrated of them being Goethe. Arthur attended her parties, usually when he knew that Goethe would be there—though the famous writer and statesman didn't even seem to notice the young and unknown student. It is possible that Goethe kept distance because Johanna warned him about her son's depressive and combative nature, or because Goethe was then on bad terms with Arthur's language instructor and roommate, Franz Passow. Schopenhauer was also captivated by the beautiful Karoline Jagemann, mistress of Karl August, Grand Duke of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach, and he wrote to her his only known love poem. Despite his later celebration of asceticism and negative views of sexuality, Schopenhauer occasionally had sexual affairs, usually with women of lower social status, such as servants, actresses, and sometimes even paid prostitutes. In a letter to his friend Anthime he claims that such affairs continued even in his mature age and admits that he had two out-of-wedlock daughters (born in 1819 and 1836), both of whom died in infancy. In their youthful correspondence Arthur and Anthime were somewhat boastful and competitive about their sexual exploits—but Schopenhauer seemed aware that women usually didn’t find him very charming or physically attractive, and his desires often remained unfulfilled.\n\nHe left Weimar to become a student at the University of Göttingen in 1809. There are no written reasons about why Schopenhauer chose that university instead of then more famous University of Jena but Göttingen was known as a more modern, scientifically oriented, with less attention given to theology. Law or medicine were usual choices for young men of Schopenhauer's status who also needed career and income; he choose medicine due to his scientific interests. Among his notable professors were Bernhard Friedrich Thibaut, Arnold Hermann Ludwig Heeren, Johann Friedrich Blumenbach, Friedrich Stromeyer, Heinrich Adolf Schrader, Johann Tobias Mayer and Konrad Johann Martin Langenbeck. He studied metaphysics, psychology and logic under Gottlob Ernst Schulze, the author of \"Aenesidemus\", who made a strong impression and advised him to concentrate on Plato and Immanuel Kant. He decided to switch from medicine to philosophy around 1810-11 and he left Göttingen which didn't have a strong philosophy program (besides Schulze the only other philosophy professor was Friedrich Bouterwek whom Schopenhauer disliked). He didn't regret his medicinal and scientific studies. He claimed that they were necessary for a philosopher, and even in Berlin he attended more lectures in sciences than in philosophy. During his days at Göttingen, he spent a lot of time studying, but also continued his flute playing and social life. His friends included Friedrich Gotthilf Osann, Karl Witte, Christian Charles Josias von Bunsen, and William Backhouse Astor Sr..\n\nHe arrived to the newly founded University of Berlin for the winter semester of 1811-12. At the same time his mother just started her literary career; she published her first book in 1810, a biography of her friend Karl Ludwig Fernow, which was a critical success. Arthur attended lectures by the prominent post-Kantian philosopher Johann Gottlieb Fichte but quickly found many points of disagreement with his \"Wissenschaftslehre\" and he also found his lectures tedious and hard to understand. He later mentioned Fichte only in critical, negative terms—seeing his philosophy as a lower quality version of Kant's and considering it useful only because Fichte's poor arguments unintentionally highlighted some failings of Kantianism. He also attended the lectures of the famous theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher whom he also quickly came to dislike. His notes and comments on Schleiermacher's lectures show that Schopenhauer was becoming very critical of religion and moving towards atheism. He learned a lot by self-directed reading; besides Plato, Kant and Fichte he also read the works of Schelling, Fries, Jacobi, Bacon, Locke, and a lot of current scientific literature. He attended philological courses by August Böckh and Friedrich August Wolf and continued his naturalistic interests with courses by Martin Heinrich Klaproth, Paul Erman, Johann Elert Bode, Ernst Gottfried Fischer, Johann Horkel, Friedrich Christian Rosenthal and Hinrich Lichtenstein (Lichtenstein was also a friend whom he met at one of his mother's parties in Weimar).\n\nSchopenhauer left Berlin in a rush in 1813 fearing that the city could be attacked and that he could be pressed into military service as Prussia just joined the war against France. He returned to Weimar but left after less than a month disgusted by the fact that his mother was now living with her supposed lover, Georg Friedrich Conrad Ludwig Müller von Gerstenbergk, a civil servant fourteen years younger than her; he considered the relationship an act of infidelity to his father's memory. He settled for a while in Rudolstadt hoping that no army would pass through the small town. He spent his time in solitude, hiking in the mountains and the Thuringian forest and writing his dissertation, \"On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason\". He completed his dissertation at about the same time as the French army was defeated at the Battle of Leipzig. He became irritated by the arrival of soldiers to the town and accepted his mother's invitation to visit her in Weimar. She tried to convince him that her relationship with Gerstenbergk was platonic and that she had no intentions of remarrying. But Schopenhauer remained suspicious and often came in conflict with Gerstenbergk because he considered him untalented, pretentious, and nationalistic. His mother just published her second book, \"Reminiscences of a Journey in the Years 1803, 1804, and 1805\", a description of their family tour of Europe, which quickly became a hit. She found his dissertation incomprehensible and said it was unlikely that anyone would ever buy a copy. In a fit of temper Arthur told her that people would read his work long after the \"rubbish\" she wrote was totally forgotten. In fact, although they considered her novels of dubious quality, the Brockhaus publishing firm held her in high esteem because they consistently sold well. Hans Brockhaus (1888-1965) later claimed that his predecessors \"...saw nothing in this manuscript, but wanted to please one of our best-selling authors by publishing her son's work. We published more and more of her son Arthur's work and today nobody remembers Johanna, but her son's works are in steady demand and contribute to Brockhaus'[s] reputation.\" He kept large portraits of the pair in his office in Leipzig for the edification of his new editors.\n\nAlso contrary to his mother's prediction, Schopenhauer's dissertation made an impression on Goethe to whom he sent it as a gift. Although it is doubtful that Goethe agreed with Schopenhauer's philosophical positions he was impressed by his intellect and extensive scientific education. Their subsequent meetings and correspondence were a great honor to a young philosopher who was finally acknowledged by his intellectual hero. They mostly discussed Goethe's newly published (and somewhat lukewarmly received) work on color theory. Schopenhauer soon started writing his own treatise on the subject, \"On Vision and Colors\", which in many points differed from his teacher's. Although they remained polite towards each other, their growing theoretical disagreements – and especially Schopenhauer's tactless criticisms and extreme self-confidence – soon made Goethe become distant again and after 1816 their correspondence became less frequent. Schopenhauer later admitted that he was greatly hurt by this rejection, but he continued to praise Goethe, and considered his color theory a great introduction to his own.\n\nAnother important experience during his stay in Weimar was his acquaintance with Friedrich Majer – a historian of religion, orientalist and disciple of Herder – who introduced him to the Eastern philosophy. Schopenhauer was immediately impressed by the \"Upanishads\" and the Buddha and put them at par with Plato and Kant. He continued his studies by reading the \"Bhagavad Gita\", an amateurish German journal \"Asiatisches Magazin\" and \"Asiatick Researches\" by The Asiatic Society. Although he loved Hindu texts he was more interested in Buddhism which he came to regard as the best religion. However, his early studies were constrained by the lack of adequate literature, and were mostly restricted to Early Buddhism. He also claimed that he formulated most of his ideas independently, and only later realized the similarities with Buddhism.\nAs the relationship with his mother fell to a new low he left Weimar and moved to Dresden in May 1814. He continued his philosophical studies, enjoyed the cultural life, socialized with intellectuals and engaged in sexual affairs. His friends in Dresden were Johann Gottlob von Quandt, Friedrich Laun, Karl Christian Friedrich Krause and Ludwig Sigismund Ruhl, a young painter who made a romanticized portrait of him in which he improved some of Schopenhauer's unattractive physical features. His criticisms of local artists occasionally caused public quarrels when he ran into them in public. However, his main occupation during his stay in Dresden was his seminal philosophical work, \"The World as Will and Representation\", which he started writing in 1814 and finished in 1818. He was recommended to Friedrich Arnold Brockhaus by Baron Ferdinand von Biedenfeld, an acquaintance of his mother. Although the publisher accepted his manuscript, Schopenhauer made a poor impression because of his quarrelsome and fussy attitude and very poor sales of the book after it was published in December 1818.\n\nIn September 1818, while waiting for his book to be published and conveniently escaping an affair with a maid that caused an unwanted pregnancy, Schopenhauer left Dresden for a yearlong vacation in Italy. He visited Venice, Bologna, Florence, Naples and Milan, travelling alone or accompanied by mostly English tourists he met. He spent winter months in Rome where he accidentally met his acquaintance Karl Witte and engaged in numerous quarrels with German tourists in Caffe Greco, among them Johann Friedrich Böhmer who also mentioned his insulting remarks and unpleasant character. He enjoyed art, architecture, ancient ruins, attended plays and operas, continued his philosophical contemplation and love affairs. One of his affairs supposedly became serious, and for a while he contemplated marriage to a rich Italian noblewoman—but despite his mentioning this several times, no details are known and it may have been Schopenhauer exaggerating. He corresponded regularly with his sister Adele and became close to her as her relationship with Johanna and Gerstenbergk also deteriorated. She informed him about their financial troubles as the banking house of A. L. Muhl in Danzig – in which her mother invested their whole savings and Arthur a third of his – was near bankruptcy. Arthur offered to share his assets but his mother refused and became further enraged by his insulting comments. The women managed to receive only thirty percent of their savings while Arthur, using his business knowledge, took a suspicious and aggressive stance towards the banker and eventually received his part in full. The affair additionally worsened the relationships among all three members of Schopenhauer family.\n\nHe shortened his stay in Italy because of the trouble with Muhl and returned to Dresden. Disturbed by the financial risk and the lack of responses to his book he decided to take an academic position since it provided him both with income and the opportunity to promote his views. He contacted his friends at universities in Heidelberg, Göttingen and Berlin and found Berlin most attractive. He scheduled his lectures to coincide with those of the famous philosopher G. W. F. Hegel, whom Schopenhauer described as a \"clumsy charlatan\". He was especially appalled by Hegel's supposedly poor knowledge of natural sciences and tried to engage him in a quarrel about it already at his test lecture in March 1820. Hegel was also facing political suspicions at the time when many progressive professors were fired, while Schopenhauer carefully mentioned in his application that he had no interest in politics. Despite their differences and the arrogant request to schedule lectures at the same time as his own, Hegel still voted to accept Schopenhauer to the university. However, only five students turned up to Schopenhauer's lectures, and he dropped out of academia. A late essay, \"On University Philosophy\", expressed his resentment towards the work conducted in academies.\n\nAfter his academic failure he continued to travel extensively, visiting Leipzig, Nuremberg, Stuttgart, Schaffhausen, Vevey, Milan and spending eight months in Florence. However, before he left for his three-year travel, he had an incident with his Berlin neighbor, forty-seven-year-old seamstress Caroline Louise Marquet. The details of the August 1821 incident are unknown. He claimed that he just pushed her from his entrance after she rudely refused to leave, and she purposely fell on the ground so she could sue him. She claimed that he attacked her so violently that she had become paralyzed on her right side and unable to work. She immediately sued him, and the process lasted until May 1827, when a court found Schopenhauer guilty and forced him to pay her an annual pension until her death in 1842.\n\nSchopenhauer enjoyed Italy, where he studied art and socialized with Italian and English nobles. It was his last visit to the country. He left for Munich and stayed there for a year, mostly recuperating from various health issues, some of them possibly caused by venereal diseases (the treatment his doctor used suggests syphilis). He contacted publishers offering to translate Hume into German and Kant into English but his proposals were declined. Returning to Berlin he began to study Spanish in order to read some of his favorite authors in their original language. He liked Pedro Calderón de la Barca, Lope de Vega, Miguel de Cervantes, and especially Baltasar Gracián. He also made failed attempts to publish his translations of their works. Few attempts to revive his lectures – again scheduled at the same time as Hegel's – also failed, as did his inquiries about relocating to other universities.\n\nDuring his Berlin years Schopenhauer occasionally mentioned his desire to marry and have a family. For a while he was unsuccessfully courting 17-year-old Flora Weiss, who was 22 years younger than him. His unpublished writings from that time show that he was already very critical of monogamy but still not advocating polygyny – instead musing about a polyamorous relationship he called \"tetragamy\". He had an on and off relationship with a young dancer Caroline Richter (she also used surname Medon after one of her ex-lovers). They met when he was 33 and she was 19 and working at the Berlin Opera. She already had numerous lovers and an out-of-wedlock son, and later gave birth to another son, this time to an unnamed foreign diplomat. (She soon had another pregnancy but it was stillborn). As Schopenhauer was preparing to escape Berlin in 1831, due to cholera epidemic, he offered to take her with him on the condition that she leaves her young son. She refused and he went alone; in his will he left her a significant sum of money but insisted that it should not be in any way spent on her second son.\n\nSchopenhauer claimed that in his last year in Berlin he had a prophetic dream which urged him to escape the city. As he arrived in his new home in Frankfurt he supposedly had another supernatural experience, an apparition of his dead father and his mother who was still alive. This experience led him to spend some time investigating paranormal phenomena and magic. He was quite critical of the available studies and claimed that they were mostly ignorant or fraudulent, but he did believe that there are authentic cases of such phenomena and tried to explain them through his metaphysics as manifestations of the will.\n\nUpon his arrival in Frankfurt he experienced a period of depression and declining health. He renewed his correspondence with his mother, and she seemed concerned that he might commit suicide like his father. By now Johanna and Adele were living very modestly. Johanna's writing didn’t bring her much income, and her popularity was waning. Their correspondence remained reserved, and Arthur Schopenhauer seemed undisturbed by her death in 1838. His relationship with his sister grew closer and he corresponded with her until she died in 1849.\n\nIn July 1832 Schopenhauer left Frankfurt for Mannheim but returned in July 1833 to remain there for the rest of his life, except for a few short journeys. He lived alone except for a succession of pet poodles named Atman and Butz. In 1836, he published \"On the Will in Nature\". In 1836 he sent his essay \"On the Freedom of the Will\" to the contest of the \"Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences\" and won the prize next year. He sent another essay, \"On the Basis of Morality\", to the \"Royal Danish Society for Scientific Studies\" but didn’t win the prize despite being the only contestant. The Society was appalled that several distinguished contemporary philosophers were mentioned in a very offensive manner, claimed that the essay missed the point and that the arguments were not adequate. Schopenhauer, who was very self-confident that he will win, was enraged by this rejection. He published both essays as \"The Two Basic Problems of Ethics\" and in the preface to the second edition of this book, in 1860, he was still pouring insults on Royal Danish Society. First edition, published in 1841, again failed to draw attention to his philosophy. Two years later, after some negotiations, he managed to convince his publisher, Brockhaus, to print the second, updated edition of \"The World as Will and Representation\". The book was again mostly ignored and few reviews were mixed or negative. \nHowever, Schopenhauer did start to attract some followers, mostly outside academia, among practical professionals (several of them were lawyers) who pursued private philosophical studies. He jokingly referred to them as \"evangelists\" and \"apostles\". One of the most active early followers was Julius Frauenstädt who wrote numerous articles promoting Schopenhauer's philosophy. He was also instrumental in finding another publisher after Brockhaus refused to publish \"Parerga and Paralipomena\" believing that it would be another failure. Though Schopenhauer later stopped corresponding with him, claiming that he did not adhere closely enough to his ideas, Frauenstädt continued to promote Schopehnauer's work. They renewed their communication in 1859 and Schopenhauer named him heir for his literary estate. He also became the editor of the first collected works of Schopenhauer.\n\nIn 1848 Schopenhauer witnessed violent upheaval in Frankfurt after General Hans Adolf Erdmann von Auerswald and Prince Felix Lichnowsky were murdered. He became worried for his own safety and property. Even earlier in life he had such worries and kept a sword and loaded pistols near his bed to defend himself from thieves. He gave a friendly welcome to Austrian soldiers who wanted to shoot revolutionaries from his window and as they were leaving he gave one of the officers his opera glasses to help him monitor rebels. The rebellion passed without any loss to Schopenhauer and he later praised Alfred I, Prince of Windisch-Grätz for restoring order. He even modified his will, leaving a large part of his property to a Prussian fund that helped soldiers who became invalids while fighting rebellion in 1848 or the families of soldiers who died in battle. As Young Hegelians were advocating change and progress Schopenhauer claimed that misery is natural for humans—and that even if some utopian society were established, people would still fight each other out of boredom, or would starve due to overpopulation.\nIn 1851 Schopenhauer published \"Parerga and Paralipomena\", which, as the title says, contains essays that are supplementary to his main work, and are mostly comprehensible to readers unfamiliar with his earlier philosophy. It was his first successful, widely read book, partly due to the work of his disciples who wrote praising reviews. The essays that proved most popular were the ones that actually didn’t contain the basic philosophical ideas of his system. Many academic philosophers considered him a great stylist and cultural critic but didn’t take his philosophy seriously. His early critics liked to point out similarities of his ideas to those Fichte and Schelling, or claim that there are numerous contradictions in his philosophy. Both criticisms enraged Schopenhauer. However, he was becoming less interested in intellectual fights, but encouraged his disciples to do so. His private notes and correspondence show that he acknowledged some of the criticisms regarding contradictions, inconsistencies, and vagueness in his philosophy, but claimed that he wasn’t concerned about harmony and agreement in his propositions and that some of his ideas shouldn’t be taken literally but instead as metaphors.\n\nAcademic philosophers were also starting to notice his work. In 1856 University of Leipzig sponsored an essay contest about Schopenhauer's philosophy which was won by Rudolf Seydel’s very critical essay. Schopenhauer's friend Jules Lunteschütz made a first of his four portraits of him – which Schopenhauer didn’t particularly like – that was soon sold to a wealthy landowner Carl Ferdinand Wiesike who built a house to display it. Schopenhauer seemed flattered and amused by this, and would claim that it was his first chapel. As his fame increased copies of his paintings and photographs were being sold and admirers were visiting the places where he lived and wrote his works. People visited Frankfurt's \"Englischer Hof\" to observe him dining. Admirers gave him gifts and asked for autographs. He complained, however, that he still felt isolated due to his not very social nature and the fact that many of his good friends already died from old age.\nHe remained healthy in his old age which he attributed to regular walks no matter the weather, and always getting enough sleep. He had a great appetite and could read without glasses but his hearing was declining since his youth and he developed problems with rheumatism. He remained active and lucid, continued his reading, writing and correspondences until his death. The numerous notes that he made during these years, amongst others on aging, were published posthumously under the title \"Senilia\". In the spring of 1860 his health started to decline, he experienced shortness of breath and heart palpitations; in September he suffered inflammation of the lungs and although he was starting to recover he remained very weak. His last friend to visit him was Wilhelm Gwinner and according to him Schopenhauer was concerned that he won’t be able to finish his planned additions to \"Parerga and Paralipomena\" but was at peace with dying. He died of pulmonary-respiratory failure, on 21 September 1860 while sitting at home on his couch. He was 72.\n\nSchopenhauer saw his philosophy as a continuation of that of Kant, and used the results of his epistemological investigations, that is, transcendental idealism, as starting point for his own:\n\nKant had argued the empirical world is merely a complex of appearances whose existence and connection occur only in our representations. Schopenhauer reiterates this in the first sentence of his main work: \"The world is my representation.\" We do not draw empirical laws from nature, but prescribe them to it.\n\nSchopenhauer praises Kant for his distinction between appearance and the things-in-themselves that appear, whereas the general consensus in German Idealism was that this was the weakest spot of Kant's theory, since according to Kant causality can find application on objects of experience only, and consequently, things-in-themselves cannot be the cause of appearances, as Kant argued. The inadmissibility of this reasoning was also acknowledged by Schopenhauer. He insisted that this distinction was a true conclusion, drawn from false premises.\n\nIn November 1813 Goethe invited Schopenhauer for research on his Theory of Colours. Although Schopenhauer considered colour theory a minor matter, he accepted the invitation out of admiration for Goethe. Nevertheless, these investigations led him to his most important discovery in epistemology: finding a demonstration for the a priori nature of causality.\n\nKant openly admitted that it was Hume's skeptical assault on causality that motivated the critical investigations of \"Critique of Pure Reason\". In it, he gives an elaborate proof to show that causality is given a priori. After G.E. Schulze had made it plausible that Kant had not disproven Hume's skepticism, it was up to those loyal to the project of Kant to prove this important matter.\n\nThe difference between the approach of Kant and Schopenhauer was this: Kant simply declared that the empirical content of perception is \"given\" to us from outside, an expression with which Schopenhauer often expressed his dissatisfaction. He, on the other hand, was occupied with: how do we get this empirical content of perception; how is it possible to comprehend subjective sensations \"limited to my skin\" as the objective perception of things that lie \"outside\" of me?\n\nCausality is therefore not an empirical concept drawn from objective perceptions, but objective perception presupposes knowledge of causality. Hereby Hume's skepticism is disproven.\n\nBy this intellectual operation, comprehending every effect in our sensory organs as having an external cause, the external world arises. With vision, finding the cause is essentially simplified due to light acting in straight lines. We are seldom conscious of the process, that interprets the double sensation in both eyes as coming from one object; that turns the upside down impression; and that adds depth to make from the planimetrical data stereometrical perception with distance between objects.\n\nSchopenhauer stresses the importance of the intellectual nature of perception, the senses furnish the raw material by which the intellect produces the world as representation. He set out his theory of perception for the first time in \"On Vision and Colors\", and in the subsequent editions of Fourfold Root an extensive exposition is given in § 21.\n\nSchopenhauer developed a system called metaphysical voluntarism.\n\nFor Schopenhauer, human desire was futile, illogical, directionless, and, by extension, so was all human action in the world. Einstein paraphrased his views as follows: \"Man can indeed do what he wants, but he cannot will what he wants.\" In this sense, he adhered to the Fichtean principle of idealism: \"The world is \"for\" a subject.\" This idealism so presented, immediately commits it to an ethical attitude, unlike the purely epistemological concerns of Descartes and Berkeley. To Schopenhauer, the Will is a blind force that controls not only the actions of individual, intelligent agents, but ultimately all observable phenomena—an evil to be terminated via mankind's duties: asceticism and chastity. He is credited with one of the most famous opening lines of philosophy: \"The world is my representation.\" Friedrich Nietzsche was greatly influenced by this idea of Will, although he eventually rejected it.\n\nFor Schopenhauer, human desiring, \"willing\", and craving cause suffering or pain. A temporary way to escape this pain is through aesthetic contemplation (a method comparable to Zapffe's \"Sublimation\"). Aesthetic contemplation allows one to escape this pain—albeit temporarily—because it stops one perceiving the world as mere presentation. Instead, one no longer perceives the world as an object of perception (therefore as subject to the Principle of Sufficient Grounds; time, space and causality) from which one is separated; rather one becomes one with that perception: \"one can thus no longer separate the perceiver from the perception\" (\"The World as Will and Representation\", section 34). From this immersion with the world one no longer views oneself as an individual who suffers in the world due to one's individual will but, rather, becomes a \"subject of cognition\" to a perception that is \"Pure, will-less, timeless\" (section 34) where the essence, \"ideas\", of the world are shown. Art is the practical consequence of this brief aesthetic contemplation as it attempts to depict one's immersion with the world, thus tries to depict the essence/pure ideas of the world. Music, for Schopenhauer, was the purest form of art because it was the one that depicted the will itself without it appearing as subject to the Principle of Sufficient Grounds, therefore as an individual object. According to Daniel Albright, \"Schopenhauer thought that music was the only art that did not merely copy ideas, but actually embodied the will itself\".\n\nHe deemed music a timeless, universal language comprehended everywhere, that can imbue global enthusiasm, if in possession of a significant melody.\n\nSchopenhauer's realist views on mathematics are evident in his criticism of the contemporaneous attempts to prove the parallel postulate in Euclidean geometry. Writing shortly before the discovery of hyperbolic geometry demonstrated the logical independence of the axiom—and long before the general theory of relativity revealed that it does not necessarily express a property of physical space—Schopenhauer criticized mathematicians for trying to use indirect concepts to prove what he held was directly evident from intuitive perception.\n\nThroughout his writings, Schopenhauer criticized the logical derivation of philosophies and mathematics from mere concepts, instead of from intuitive perceptions.\n\nAlthough Schopenhauer could see no justification for trying to prove Euclid's parallel postulate, he did see a reason for examining another of Euclid's axioms.\nThis follows Kant's reasoning.\n\nThe task of ethics is not to prescribe moral actions that ought to be done, but to investigate moral actions. Philosophy is always theoretical: its task to explain what is given.\n\nAccording to Kant's teaching of transcendental idealism, space and time are forms of our sensibility due to which the phenomena appear in multiplicity. Reality in itself is free from all multiplicity, not in the sense that an object is one, but that it is outside the \"possibility\" of multiplicity. From this follows that two individuals, though they appear as distinct, are in-themselves not distinct.\n\nThe appearances are entirely subordinated to the principle of sufficient reason. The egoistic individual who focuses his aims completely on his own interests has therefore to deal with empirical laws as good as he can.\n\nWhat is relevant for ethics are individuals who can act against their own self-interest. If we take for example a man who suffers when he sees his fellow men living in poverty, and consequently uses a significant part of his income to support \"their\" needs instead his \"own\" pleasures, then the simplest way to describe this is that he makes \"less distinction between himself\" and others than is usually made.\n\nRegarding how the things \"appear\" to us, the egoist is right to assert the gap between two individuals, but the altruist experiences the sufferings of others as his own. In the same way a compassionate man cannot hurt animals, though they appear as distinct from himself.\n\nWhat motivates the altruist is compassion. The sufferings of others is for him not a cold matter to which he is indifferent, but he feels connected to all beings. Compassion is thus the basis of morality.\n\nSchopenhauer calls the principle through which multiplicity appears the \"principium individuationis\". When we behold nature we see that it is a cruel battle for existence. Individual manifestations of the will can maintain themselves at only at the expense of others—the will, as the only thing that exists, has no other option but to devour itself to experience pleasure. This is a fundamental characteristic of the will, and cannot be circumvented.\n\nTormenter and tormented are one. Suffering is the moral retribution of our attachment to pleasure. Schopenhauer deemed that this truth was expressed by Christian dogma of original sin and in Eastern religions with the dogma of rebirth.\n\nHe who sees through the \"principium individuationis\" and comprehends suffering \"in general\" as his own, will see suffering everywhere, and instead of using all his force to fight for the happiness of his individual manifestation, he will abhor life itself, of which he knows how inseparably it is connected with suffering. A happy individual life midst of a world of suffering is for him like beggar who dreams one night that he is a king.\n\nThose who have experienced this intuitive knowledge can no longer affirm life, but will exhibit asceticism and quietism, meaning that they are no longer sensitive to motives, are not concerned about their individual welfare, and accept the evil others inflict on them without resisting. They welcome poverty, do not seek nor flee death.\n\nHuman life is a ceaseless struggle for satisfaction, and instead of renewing this contract, the ascetic breaks it. It matters little whether these ascetics adhered the dogmata of Christianity or Dharmic religions, since their way of living is the result of intuitive knowledge.\n\nSchopenhauer referred to asceticism as the denial of the will to live.\n\nPhilosophers have not traditionally been impressed by the tribulations of sex, but Schopenhauer addressed it and related concepts forthrightly:\n\nHe named a force within man that he felt took invariable precedence over reason: the Will to Live or Will to Life (\"Wille zum Leben\"), defined as an inherent drive within human beings, and indeed all creatures, to stay alive; a force that inveigles us into reproducing.\n\nSchopenhauer refused to conceive of love as either trifling or accidental, but rather understood it as an immensely powerful force that lay unseen within man's psyche, guaranteeing the quality of the human race:\n\nIt has often been argued that Schopenhauer's thoughts on sexuality foreshadowed the theory of evolution, a claim which seems to have been met with satisfaction by Darwin as he included a quote of the German philosopher in his Descent of Man after having read such a claim. This has also been noted about Freud's concepts of the libido and the unconscious mind, and evolutionary psychology in general.\n\nSchopenhauer's politics were, for the most part, an echo of his system of ethics (the latter being expressed in \"Die beiden Grundprobleme der Ethik\", available in English as two separate books, \"On the Basis of Morality\" and \"On the Freedom of the Will\"). Ethics also occupies about one quarter of his central work, \"The World as Will and Representation\".\n\nIn occasional political comments in his \"Parerga and Paralipomena\" and \"Manuscript Remains\", Schopenhauer described himself as a proponent of limited government. What was essential, he thought, was that the state should \"leave each man free to work out his own salvation,\" and so long as government was thus limited, he would \"prefer to be ruled by a lion than one of [his] fellow rats\"—i.e., by a monarch, rather than a democrat. Schopenhauer shared the view of Thomas Hobbes on the necessity of the state, and of state action, to check the destructive tendencies innate to our species. He also defended the independence of the legislative, judicial and executive branches of power, and a monarch as an impartial element able to practise justice (in a practical and everyday sense, not a cosmological one). He declared monarchy as \"that which is natural to man\" for \"intelligence has always under a monarchical government a much better chance against its irreconcilable and ever-present foe, stupidity\" and disparaged republicanism as \"unnatural as it is unfavourable to the higher intellectual life and the arts and sciences\".\n\nSchopenhauer, by his own admission, did not give much thought to politics, and several times he writes proudly of how little attention he had paid \"to political affairs of [his] day\". In a life that spanned several revolutions in French and German government, and a few continent-shaking wars, he did indeed maintain his aloof position of \"minding not the times but the eternities\". He wrote many disparaging remarks about Germany and the Germans. A typical example is, \"For a German it is even good to have somewhat lengthy words in his mouth, for he thinks slowly, and they give him time to reflect.\"\n\nSchopenhauer attributed civilizational primacy to the northern \"white races\" due to their sensitivity and creativity (except for the ancient Egyptians and Hindus, whom he saw as equal):\n\nThe highest civilization and culture, apart from the ancient Hindus and Egyptians, are found exclusively among the white races; and even with many dark peoples, the ruling caste or race is fairer in colour than the rest and has, therefore, evidently immigrated, for example, the Brahmans, the Incas, and the rulers of the South Sea Islands. All this is due to the fact that necessity is the mother of invention because those tribes that emigrated early to the north, and there gradually became white, had to develop all their intellectual powers and invent and perfect all the arts in their struggle with need, want and misery, which in their many forms were brought about by the climate. This they had to do in order to make up for the parsimony of nature and out of it all came their high civilization.\n\nDespite this, he was adamantly against differing treatment of races, was fervently anti-slavery, and supported the abolitionist movement in the United States. He describes the treatment of \"[our] innocent black brothers whom force and injustice have delivered into [the slave-master's] devilish clutches\" as \"belonging to the blackest pages of mankind's criminal record\".\n\nSchopenhauer additionally maintained a marked metaphysical and political anti-Judaism. Schopenhauer argued that Christianity constituted a revolt against what he styled the materialistic basis of Judaism, exhibiting an Indian-influenced ethics reflecting the Aryan-Vedic theme of spiritual self-conquest. He saw this as opposed to what he held was the ignorant drive toward earthly utopianism and superficiality of a worldly \"Jewish\" spirit:\n\nWhile all other religions endeavor to explain to the people by symbols the metaphysical significance of life, the religion of the Jews is entirely immanent and furnishes nothing but a mere war-cry in the struggle with other nations.\n\nThe State, Schopenhauer claimed, punishes criminals to prevent future crimes. It does so by placing \"beside every possible motive for committing a wrong a more powerful motive for leaving it undone, in the inescapable punishment. Accordingly, the criminal code is as complete a register as possible of counter-motives to all criminal actions that can possibly be imagined ...\" He claimed this doctrine was not original to him. Previously, it appeared in the writings of Plato, Seneca, Hobbes, Pufendorf, and Anselm Feuerbach.\n\nIn Schopenhauer's 1851 essay \"On Women\", he expressed his opposition to what he called \"Teutonico-Christian stupidity\" of reflexive unexamined reverence (\"abgeschmackten Weiberveneration\") for the female. Schopenhauer wrote that \"Women are directly fitted for acting as the nurses and teachers of our early childhood by the fact that they are themselves childish, frivolous and short-sighted.\" He opined that women are deficient in artistic faculties and sense of justice, and expressed opposition to monogamy. Indeed, Rodgers and Thompson in \"Philosophers Behaving Badly\" call Schopenhauer \"a misogynist without rival in ... Western philosophy\". He claimed that \"woman is by nature meant to obey\". The essay does give some compliments, however: that \"women are decidedly more sober in their judgment than [men] are\", and are more sympathetic to the suffering of others.\n\nSchopenhauer's writings have influenced many, from Friedrich Nietzsche to nineteenth-century feminists. Schopenhauer's biological analysis of the difference between the sexes, and their separate roles in the struggle for survival and reproduction, anticipates some of the claims that were later ventured by sociobiologists and evolutionary psychologists.\n\nWhen the elderly Schopenhauer sat for a sculpture portrait by the Prussian sculptor Elisabet Ney in 1859, he was much impressed by the young woman's wit and independence, as well as by her skill as a visual artist. After his time with Ney, he told Richard Wagner's friend Malwida von Meysenbug, \"I have not yet spoken my last word about women. I believe that if a woman succeeds in withdrawing from the mass, or rather raising herself above the mass, she grows ceaselessly and more than a man.\"\n\nSchopenhauer viewed personality and intellect as being inherited. He quotes Horace's saying, \"From the brave and good are the brave descended\" (\"Odes\", iv, 4, 29) and Shakespeare's line from \"Cymbeline\", \"Cowards father cowards, and base things sire base\" (IV, 2) to reinforce his hereditarian argument.\nMechanistically, Schopenhauer believed that a person inherits his level of intellect through his mother, and personal character through one's father. This belief in heritability of traits informed Schopenhauer's view of love – placing it at the highest level of importance. For Schopenhauer the \"final aim of all love intrigues, be they comic or tragic, is really of more importance than all other ends in human life. What it all turns upon is nothing less than the composition of the next generation. ... It is not the weal or woe of any one individual, but that of the human race to come, which is here at stake.\" This view of the importance for the species of whom we choose to love was reflected in his views on eugenics or good breeding. Here Schopenhauer wrote:\n\nWith our knowledge of the complete unalterability both of character and of mental faculties, we are led to the view that a real and thorough improvement of the human race might be reached not so much from outside as from within, not so much by theory and instruction as rather by the path of generation. Plato had something of the kind in mind when, in the fifth book of his \"Republic\", he explained his plan for increasing and improving his warrior caste. If we could castrate all scoundrels and stick all stupid geese in a convent, and give men of noble character a whole harem, and procure men, and indeed thorough men, for all girls of intellect and understanding, then a generation would soon arise which would produce a better age than that of Pericles.\n\nIn another context, Schopenhauer reiterated his eugenic thesis: \"If you want Utopian plans, I would say: the only solution to the problem is the despotism of the wise and noble members of a genuine aristocracy, a genuine nobility, achieved by mating the most magnanimous men with the cleverest and most gifted women. This proposal constitutes my Utopia and my Platonic Republic.\" Analysts (e.g., Keith Ansell-Pearson) have suggested that Schopenhauer's anti-egalitarianist sentiment and his support for eugenics influenced the neo-aristocratic philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche, who initially considered Schopenhauer his mentor.\n\nAs a consequence of his monistic philosophy, Schopenhauer was very concerned about the welfare of animals. For him, all individual animals, including humans, are essentially the same, being phenomenal manifestations of the one underlying Will. The word \"will\" designated, for him, force, power, impulse, energy, and desire; it is the closest word we have that can signify both the real essence of all external things and also our own direct, inner experience. Since every living thing possesses will, then humans and animals are fundamentally the same and can recognize themselves in each other. For this reason, he claimed that a good person would have sympathy for animals, who are our fellow sufferers.\n\nIn 1841, he praised the establishment, in London, of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and also the Animals' Friends Society in Philadelphia. Schopenhauer even went so far as to protest against the use of the pronoun \"it\" in reference to animals because it led to the treatment of them as though they were inanimate things. To reinforce his points, Schopenhauer referred to anecdotal reports of the look in the eyes of a monkey who had been shot and also the grief of a baby elephant whose mother had been killed by a hunter.\n\nHe was very attached to his succession of pet poodles. Schopenhauer criticized Spinoza's belief that animals are a mere means for the satisfaction of humans.\n\nIn the third, expanded edition of \"The World as Will and Representation\" (1859), Schopenhauer added an appendix to his chapter on the \"Metaphysics of Sexual Love\". He wrote that pederasty did have the benefit of preventing ill-begotten children. Concerning this, he stated that \"the vice we are considering appears to work directly against the aims and ends of nature, and that in a matter that is all important and of the greatest concern to her it must in fact serve these very aims, although only indirectly, as a means for preventing greater evils\".\nSchopenhauer ends the appendix with the statement that \"by expounding these paradoxical ideas, I wanted to grant to the professors of philosophy a small favour. I have done so by giving them the opportunity of slandering me by saying that I defend and commend pederasty.\"\n\nSchopenhauer read the Latin translation of the ancient Hindu texts, the Upanishads, which French writer Anquetil du Perron had translated from the Persian translation of Prince Dara Shukoh entitled \"Sirre-Akbar\" (\"The Great Secret\"). He was so impressed by their philosophy that he called them \"the production of the highest human wisdom\", and believed they contained superhuman concepts. The Upanishads was a great source of inspiration to Schopenhauer. Writing about them, he said:\n\nIt is the most satisfying and elevating reading (with the exception of the original text) which is possible in the world; it has been the solace of my life and will be the solace of my death.\n\nThe book \"Oupnekhat\" (Upanishad) always lay open on his table, and he invariably studied it before sleeping at night. He called the opening up of Sanskrit literature \"the greatest gift of our century\" and predicted that the philosophy and knowledge of the Upanishads would become the cherished faith of the West.\n\nSchopenhauer was first introduced to the 1802 Latin Upanishad translation through Friedrich Majer. They met during the winter of 1813–1814 in Weimar at the home of Schopenhauer's mother according to the biographer Safranski. Majer was a follower of Herder, and an early Indologist. Schopenhauer did not begin a serious study of the Indic texts, however, until the summer of 1814. Sansfranski maintains that between 1815 and 1817, Schopenhauer had another important cross-pollination with Indian thought in Dresden. This was through his neighbor of two years, Karl Christian Friedrich Krause. Krause was then a minor and rather unorthodox philosopher who attempted to mix his own ideas with that of ancient Indian wisdom. Krause had also mastered Sanskrit, unlike Schopenhauer, and the two developed a professional relationship. It was from Krause that Schopenhauer learned meditation and received the closest thing to expert advice concerning Indian thought.\n\nMost noticeable, in the case of Schopenhauer's work, was the significance of the Chandogya Upanishad, whose Mahāvākya, Tat Tvam Asi, is mentioned throughout \"The World as Will and Representation\".\n\nSchopenhauer noted a correspondence between his doctrines and the Four Noble Truths of Buddhism. Similarities centered on the principles that life involves suffering, that suffering is caused by desire (taṇhā), and that the extinction of desire leads to liberation. Thus three of the four \"truths of the Buddha\" correspond to Schopenhauer's doctrine of the will. In Buddhism, however, while greed and lust are always unskillful, desire is ethically variable – it can be skillful, unskillful, or neutral.\n\nFor Schopenhauer, will had ontological primacy over the intellect. In other words, desire is prior to thought. Schopenhauer felt this was similar to notions of puruṣārtha or goals of life in Vedānta Hinduism.\n\nIn Schopenhauer's philosophy, denial of the will is attained by either:\n\nHowever, Buddhist nirvāṇa is not equivalent to the condition that Schopenhauer described as denial of the will. Nirvāṇa is not the extinguishing of the \"person\" as some Western scholars have thought, but only the \"extinguishing\" (the literal meaning of nirvana) of the flames of greed, hatred, and delusion that assail a person's character. Occult historian Joscelyn Godwin (born 1945) stated, \"It was Buddhism that inspired the philosophy of Arthur Schopenhauer, and, through him, attracted Richard Wagner.\" This Orientalism reflected the struggle of the German Romantics, in the words of Leon Poliakov, to \"free themselves from Judeo-Christian fetters\". In contradistinction to Godwin's claim that Buddhism inspired Schopenhauer, the philosopher himself made the following statement in his discussion of religions:\nIf I wished to take the results of my philosophy as the standard of truth, I should have to concede to Buddhism pre-eminence over the others. In any case, it must be a pleasure to me to see my doctrine in such close agreement with a religion that the majority of men on earth hold as their own, for this numbers far more followers than any other. And this agreement must be yet the more pleasing to me, inasmuch as \"in my philosophizing I have certainly not been under its influence\" [emphasis added]. For up till 1818, when my work appeared, there was to be found in Europe only a very few accounts of Buddhism.\nBuddhist philosopher Nishitani Keiji, however, sought to distance Buddhism from Schopenhauer. While Schopenhauer's philosophy may sound rather mystical in such a summary, his methodology was resolutely empirical, rather than speculative or transcendental:\nPhilosophy ... is a science, and as such has no articles of faith; accordingly, in it nothing can be assumed as existing except what is either positively given empirically, or demonstrated through indubitable conclusions.\nAlso note:\nThis actual world of what is knowable, in which we are and which is in us, remains both the material and the limit of our consideration.\nThe argument that Buddhism affected Schopenhauer's philosophy more than any other Dharmic faith loses more credence when viewed in light of the fact that Schopenhauer did not begin a serious study of Buddhism until after the publication of \"The World as Will and Representation\" in 1818. Scholars have started to revise earlier views about Schopenhauer's discovery of Buddhism. Proof of early interest and influence, however, appears in Schopenhauer's 1815/16 notes (transcribed and translated by Urs App) about Buddhism. They are included in a recent case study that traces Schopenhauer's interest in Buddhism and documents its influence. Other scholarly work questions how similar Schopenhauer's philosophy actually is to Buddhism.\n\nSome traditions in Western esotericism and parapsychology interested Schopenhauer and influenced his philosophical theories. He praised animal magnetism as evidence for the reality of magic in his \"On the Will in Nature\", and went so far as to accept the division of magic into left-hand and right-hand magic, although he doubted the existence of demons.\n\nSchopenhauer grounded magic in the Will and claimed all forms of magical transformation depended on the human Will, not on ritual. This theory notably parallels Aleister Crowley's system of magick and its emphasis on human will. Given the importance of the Will to Schopenhauer's overarching system, this amounts to \"suggesting his whole philosophical system had magical powers.\" Schopenhauer rejected the theory of disenchantment and claimed philosophy should synthesize itself with magic, which he believed amount to \"practical metaphysics.\"\n\nNeoplatonism, including the traditions of Plotinus and to a lesser extent Marsilio Ficino, has also been cited as an influence on Schopenhauer.\n\nSchopenhauer had a wide range of interests, from science and opera to occultism and literature.\n\nIn his student years Schopenhauer went more often to lectures in the sciences than philosophy. He kept a strong interest as his personal library contained near to 200 books of scientific literature at his death, and his works refer to scientific titles not found in the library.\n\nMany evenings were spent in the theatre, opera and ballet; the operas of Mozart, Rossini and Bellini were especially esteemed. Schopenhauer considered music the highest art, and played the flute during his whole life.\n\nAs a polyglot, the philosopher knew German, Italian, Spanish, French, English, Latin and ancient Greek, and he was an avid reader of poetry and literature. He particularly revered Goethe, Petrarch, Calderón and Shakespeare.\n\nIf Goethe had not been sent into the world simultaneously with Kant in order to counterbalance him, so to speak, in the spirit of the age, the latter would have been haunted like a nightmare many an aspiring mind and would have oppressed it with great affliction. But now the two have an infinitely wholesome effect from opposite directions and will probably raise the German spirit to a height surpassing even that of antiquity.\nIn philosophy, his most important influences were, according to himself, Kant, Plato and the Upanishads. Concerning the Upanishads and Vedas, he writes in \"The World as Will and Representation\":\nIf the reader has also received the benefit of the Vedas, the access to which by means of the Upanishads is in my eyes the greatest privilege which this still young century (1818) may claim before all previous centuries, if then the reader, I say, has received his initiation in primeval Indian wisdom, and received it with an open heart, he will be prepared in the very best way for hearing what I have to tell him. It will not sound to him strange, as to many others, much less disagreeable; for I might, if it did not sound conceited, contend that every one of the detached statements which constitute the Upanishads, may be deduced as a necessary result from the fundamental thoughts which I have to enunciate, though those deductions themselves are by no means to be found there.\n\nSchopenhauer saw Bruno and Spinoza as unique philosophers who were not bound to their age or nation. \"Both were fulfilled by the thought, that as manifold the appearances of the world may be, it is still \"one\" being, that appears in all of them. ... Consequently, there is no place for God as creator of the world in their philosophy, but God is the world itself.\"\n\nSchopenhauer expressed his regret that Spinoza stuck for the presentation of his philosophy with the concepts of scholasticism and Cartesian philosophy, and tried to use geometrical proofs that do not hold because of the vagueness and wideness of the definitions. It is the common preference of philosophers of abstraction over perception. Bruno on the other hand, who knew much about nature and ancient literature, presents his ideas with Italian vividness, and is amongst philosophers the only one who comes near Plato's poetic and dramatic power of exposition.\n\nSchopenhauer noted that their philosophies do not provide any ethics, and it is therefore very remarkable that Spinoza called his main work \"Ethics\". In fact, it could be considered complete from the standpoint of life-affirmation, if one completely ignores morality and self-denial. It is yet even more remarkable that Schopenhauer mentions Spinoza as an example of the denial of the will, if one uses the French biography by Jean Maximilien Lucas as the key to \"Tractatus de Intellectus Emendatione\".\n\nThe importance of Kant for Schopenhauer, in philosophy as well as on a personal level, can hardly be overstated. The philosophy of Kant was the foundation of his own. Schopenhauer maintained that Kant stands in the same relation to philosophers such as Berkeley and Plato, as Copernicus to Hicetas, Philolaus, and Aristarchus: Kant succeeded in demonstrating what previous philosophers merely asserted.\n\nIn his study room one bust was of Buddha, the other was of Kant. The bond which Schopenhauer felt with the philosopher of Königsberg may be esteemed in a poem he dedicated to Kant:\n\nSchopenhauer dedicated one fifth of his main work, \"The World as Will and Representation\", to a criticism of the Kantian philosophy.\n\nThe leading figures of post-Kantian philosophy, Fichte, Schelling and Hegel, were not respected by Schopenhauer. He argued that they were no philosophers at all, who merely sought to impress the public.\n\nSchelling was deemed the most talented of the three, and Schopenhauer wrote that he would recommend his \"elucidatory paraphrase of the highly important doctrine of Kant\" concerning the intelligible character, if he had been honest enough to admit he was showing off with the thoughts of Kant, instead of hiding this relation in a cunning manner.\n\nSchopenhauer's favourite subject of attacks was Hegel, whom he considered unworthy even of Fichte and Schelling. Whereas Fichte was merely a windbag, Hegel was a \"stupid and clumsy charlatan\". Karl Popper agreed with this distinction.\n\nSchopenhauer had a large posthumous effect and remained the most influential German philosopher until the First World War. His philosophy was a starting point for a new generation of philosophers, which consisted of Julius Bahnsen, Paul Deussen, Lazar von Hellenbach, Karl Robert Eduard von Hartmann, Ernst Otto Lindner, Philipp Mainländer, Friedrich Nietzsche, Olga Plümacher and Agnes Talbert. His legacy shaped the intellectual debate, and forced movements that were utterly opposed to him, neo-Kantianism and positivism, to address issues they would otherwise have completely ignored, and in doing so he changed them markedly. The French writer Maupassant commented that \"to-day even those who execrate him seem to carry in their own souls particles of his thought.\" Other philosophers of the 19th century who cited his influence include Hans Vaihinger, Volkelt, Solovyov and Weininger.\n\nSchopenhauer was well read amongst physicists, most notably Einstein, Schrödinger, Wolfgang Pauli, and Majorana. Einstein described Schopenhauer's thoughts as a \"continual consolation\" and called him a genius. In his Berlin study three figures hung on the wall: Faraday, Maxwell, Schopenhauer. Konrad Wachsmann recalled: \"He often sat with one of the well-worn Schopenhauer volumes, and as he sat there, he seemed so pleased, as if he were engaged with a serene and cheerful work.\"\n\nWhen Erwin Schrödinger discovered Schopenhauer (\"the greatest savant of the West\") he considered switching his study of physics to philosophy. He maintained the idealistic views during the rest of his life. Wolfgang Pauli accepted the main tenet of Schopenhauer's metaphysics, that the thing-in-itself is will.\n\nBut most of all Schopenhauer is famous for his influence on artists. Richard Wagner became one of the earliest and most famous adherents of the Schopenhauerian philosophy. The admiration was not mutual, and Schopenhauer proclaimed: \"I remain faithful to Rossini and Mozart!\" See also Influence of Schopenhauer on Tristan und Isolde.\n\nUnder the influence of Schopenhauer Leo Tolstoy became convinced that the truth of all religions lies in self-renunciation. When he read his philosophy he exclaimed \"at present I am convinced that Schopenhauer is the greatest genius among men. ... It is the whole world in an incomparably beautiful and clear reflection.\" He said that what he has written in \"War and Peace\" is also said by Schopenhauer in \"The World as Will and Representation\".\n\nJorge Luis Borges remarked that the reason he had never attempted to write a systematic account of his world view, despite his penchant for philosophy and metaphysics in particular, was because Schopenhauer had already written it for him.\n\nOther figures in literature who were strongly influenced by Schopenhauer were Thomas Mann, Afanasy Fet, J.-K. Huysmans and George Santayana.\n\nSergei Prokofiev, although initially reluctant to engage with works noted for their pessimism, became fascinated with Schopenhauer after reading \"Aphorisms on the Wisdom of LifeI\" in \"Parerga and ParalipomenaI.\" \"With his truths Schopenhauer gave me a spiritual world and an awareness of happiness.\"\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche owed the awakening of his philosophical interest to reading \"The World as Will and Representation\" and admitted that he was one of the few philosophers that he respected, dedicating to him his essay \"Schopenhauer als Erzieher\" one of his \"Untimely Meditations\".\n\nAs a teenager, Ludwig Wittgenstein adopted Schopenhauer's epistemological idealism. However, after his study of the philosophy of mathematics, he rejected epistemological transcendental idealism for Gottlob Frege's conceptual realism. In later years, Wittgenstein was highly dismissive of Schopenhauer, describing him as an ultimately shallow thinker: \"Schopenhauer has quite a crude mind ... where real depth starts, his comes to an end.\" His friend Bertrand Russell had a low opinion on the philosopher, and attacked him in his famous \"History of Western Philosophy\" for hypocritically praising asceticism yet not acting upon it.\n\nOn the opposite isle of Russell on the foundations of mathematics, the Dutch mathematician L. E. J. Brouwer incorporated the ideas of Kant and Schopenhauer in intuitionism, where mathematics is considered a purely mental activity, instead of an analytic activity wherein objective properties of reality are revealed. Brouwer was also influenced by Schopenhauer's metaphysics, and wrote an essay on mysticism.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3820624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3820624", "title": "Association of Hispanic Arts", "text": "Association of Hispanic Arts\n\nThe Association of Hispanic Arts (AHA) is a New York-based non-profit organization founded in 1975 that promotes the work of Hispanic artists. It holds an annual Hispanic Arts Festival in the city, and publishes a quarterly magazine, \"AHA! Hispanic Arts News\".\n\nThe organisation won a Mayor's Award of Honor for Arts and Culture from the Mayor of New York David Dinkins in 1992 for its counseling and advocacy of Hispanic artists. In 1995, the group picketed the opening of \"The Perez Family\", a film about Cuban refugees whose cast was mostly non-Hispanic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36835301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36835301", "title": "Atomic Age (design)", "text": "Atomic Age (design)\n\nAtomic Age in design refers to the period roughly corresponding to 1940–1960, when concerns about nuclear war dominated Western society during the Cold War. Architecture, industrial design, commercial design (including advertising), interior design, and fine arts were all influenced by the themes of atomic science, as well as the Space Age, which coincided with that period. Atomic Age design became popular and instantly recognizable, with a use of atomic motifs and space age symbols. Retrofuturism is a current resurgence of interest in Atomic Age design.\n\"Vital forms\", or abstract organic forms, were identified as a core motif in the 2001 exhibition of Atomic Age design at the Brooklyn Museum of Art, titled \"Vital forms: American art and design in the atomic age, 1940–1960\". Atomic power was a paradox during the era. It held great promise of technological solutions for the problems facing an increasingly complex world; at the same time, people were fearful of a nuclear armageddon, after the use of the atomic bomb at the end of World War II. People were ever-aware of the potential good, and lurking menace, in technology. Science became more visible in the mainstream culture through Atomic Age design.\n\nAtomic particles themselves were reproduced in visual design, in areas ranging from architecture to barkcloth patterns. The geometric atomic patterns that were produced in textiles, industrial materials, melamine counter tops, dishware and wallpaper, and many other items, are emblematic of Atomic Age design. The Space Age interests of the public also began showing up in Atomic Age designs, with star and galaxy motifs appearing with the atomic graphics.\n\nFree-form organic shapes also appear as a recurring theme in Atomic Age design. British designers at the Council of Industrial Design (CoID) produced fabrics in the early 1950s that showed \"skeletal plant forms, drawn in a delicate, spidery graphic form\", reflecting x-ray technology that was becoming more widespread and familiar in pop culture. These botanic designs influenced later Atomic Age patterns that included repeating organic shapes similar to cells and organisms viewed through a microscope.\n\nThere are similarities between many Atomic Age designs and the mid-century modern trend of the same time. Elements of Atomic Age and Space Age design were dominant in the Googie design movement in commercial buildings in the United States. Some streamlined industrial designs also echoed the influence of futurism that had been seen much earlier in Art Deco design.\n\nWhereas Atomic Age motifs and structures leaned towards design fields such as architecture and industrial design, Space Age design spread into a broader range of consumer products, including clothing fashion, and even animation styles, as with the popular television show \"The Jetsons\". Beginning with the dawn of the Space Age (commonly attributed to the launch of Sputnik in October, 1957), Space Age design captured the optimism and faith in technology that was felt by much of society during the 1950s and 1960s. Space Age design also had a more vernacular character, appearing in accessible forms that quickly became familiar to mainstream consumers. Space Age design became more closely associated with kitsch and with Googie architecture for popular commercial buildings such as diners, bowling alleys, and shops. \"Space Age design is closely tied to the pop movement [...] the fusion of popular culture, art, design, and fashion\".\n\nTwo of the most well-known fashion designers to use Space Age themes in their designs were Pierre Cardin and Paco Rabanne. Pierre Cardin established the futuristic trend of using synthetic and industrial materials in fashion, with \"forward thinking\" innovations in his early 1960s work. Cardin \"popularized the use of everyday materials for fashion items, like vinyl and metal rings for dresses, carpentry nails for brooches, and common decorative effects such as geometric cut-outs, appliqués, large pockets, helmets and oversized buttons\". In 1964, Cardin launched his \"space age\" line, and André Courrèges showed his \"Moon Girl\" collection, introducing the white go-go boot style and other icons of the 1960s. The Japanese designer, Issey Miyake from Hiroshima, worked in Paris and New York from 1964 to 1970, and used many atomic age forms, and technologically produced materials in his work. In 1970 he moved to Tokyo to continue these innovations. Miyake cites his first encounter with design as two bridges his home-town, Hiroshima at the hypocenter of the atomic bombing of the city in WWII.\n\nThe dingbat apartment house, ubiquitous in the Los Angeles, California area were built between 1945 through the 1960s, fused a purist style with googie influence. The architect, Francis Ventre, coined the term \"dingbat\" for these quickly built stucco and frame simple structures. These structures often had a single exterior ornament in the shape of a starburst, boomerang, or pattern of rectangles.\n\nThe Chemosphere house, designed by John Lautner in 1960, has become an icon of the atomic age home. The octagonal shaped house is cantilevered on a steep slope in the Hollywood Hills, California. At the time, Encyclopædia Britannica cited it as the \"most modern home built in the world.\"\n\nSome of the leading designers who employed the Atomic Age style in their works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "44851909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44851909", "title": "Bibliographical Society of the University of Virginia", "text": "Bibliographical Society of the University of Virginia\n\nBibliographical Society of the University of Virginia is a learned society founded in 1947 at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville to promote interest in books and manuscripts, maps, printing, the graphic arts, and bibliography and textual criticism. The society sponsors exhibitions, contests for student book collectors and Virginia printers, an international speakers’ series, and an active publications program which has produced over 175 separate publication in addition to its journal \"Studies in Bibliography\".\n\nThe society was led for many years by Fredson Bowers, a University of Virginia faculty member, and was influential in applying and spreading the theories of textual criticism developed by Bowers and W. W. Greg which brought about changes in the study of manuscripts and the printing of books to ascertain the original intentions of authors. \n\nAfter several years of preparation, on February 26, 1947 a group met in the University of Virginia library in Charlottesville and adopted a constitution that declared the object of their new society to be \"to foster an interest in books (including books in manuscript), maps, printing, and bibliography.\" The group called \"The Bibliographical Society of the University of Virginia.\" The inaugural address was given by Fredson Bowers, a member of the faculty, speaking on \"Some Problems and Practices in Bibliographical Descriptions of Modern Authors,\" The leadership in the early years fell to Bowers, to John Cook Wyllie, and to Linton Massey. Bowers served as President in the Society's second and third years, 1948 and 1949, and then from its fifth year, 1951, up to 1974. By the late 1960s, the Society had nearly 1,000 members. Irby Cauthen, a charter member, became President in 1978. He was succeeded in 1993 by G. Thomas Tanselle, who was elected a Council member and President in 1993, only the second Council member from outside Charlottesville. Tanselle served as president of the society 1993-2006.\n\n\"The Papers of the Bibliographical Society\" of the University of Virginia was started in 1948 as an annual journal dedicated to the study of books as physical objects and to textual criticism and scholarly editing; Bowers served as the journal's editor until his death in 1991. It was renamed \"Studies in Bibliography\" for volume 2. Bowers conceived of the journal as one that encompassed all bibliographical study, with no restriction as to the geographical origins or periods or genres of the material examined. The topics of articles in Volume I (1948-1949), for instance, ranged from an unpublished manuscript by Thomas Jefferson, Elizabethan drama, and the use of watermarks as bibliographical evidence to catalogs issued by 16th century booksellers. Volume III (1950) opened with four major essays on textual matters: R. C. Bald's \"Editorial Problems--A Preliminary Survey,\" W. W. Greg's \"The Rationale of Copy-Text,\" Bowers's \"Some Relations of Bibliography to Editorial Problems,\" and Archibald A. Hill's \"Some Postulates for Distributional Study of Texts.\" G. Thomas Tanselle called Greg's article \"one of the most seminal papers in the history of English scholarship.\" \n\nBook length publications range from bibliographies of contemporary authors such as Peter Taylor and Hilda Doolittle (H.D.), to studies of Shakespearean promptbooks, with an especially large number of works on the problems and theory of textual editing, including collections of essays by Bowers and Tanselle.\n\nIn 1991, editorship of \"Studies in Bibliography\" passed to David L. Vander Meulen, a professor of English at the University of Virginia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5411161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5411161", "title": "Bushido: The Soul of Japan", "text": "Bushido: The Soul of Japan\n\nBushido: The Soul of Japan is a book written by Inazo Nitobe exploring the way of the samurai. It was published in 1900. \n\n\"Bushido: The Soul of Japan\" is, along with \"Hagakure\" by Yamamoto Tsunetomo (1659–1719), a study of the way of the samurai. A best-seller in its day, it was read by many influential foreigners, among them President Theodore Roosevelt, President John F. Kennedy and Robert Baden-Powell, the founder of the Boy Scouts. \n\nNitobe originally wrote \"Bushido: The Soul of Japan\" in English (1899), in Monterey, California, though according to the book's preface it was written in Malvern, Pennsylvania. The book was not translated into Japanese until it had been popular in the English-speaking world for several years.\n\nAs Japan underwent deep transformations of its traditional lifestyle and military while becoming a modern nation, Nitobe engaged in an inquiry into the ethos of his nation, and the result of his meditations was this seminal work. A fine stylist in English, he wrote many books in that language, which earned him a place among the best known Japanese writers of his age.\n\nHe found in Bushido, the Way of the Warrior, the sources of the eight virtues most admired by his people: rectitude, courage, benevolence, politeness, sincerity, honor, loyalty and self-control.\n\nHe also delved into the other indigenous traditions of Japan, such as Buddhism, Shintoism, Confucianism and the moral guidelines handed down over hundreds of years by Japan's samurai and sages.\nNitobe sought similarities and contrasts by citing the shapers of European and American thought and civilization going back to the Romans, the Greeks and Biblical times. He found a close resemblance between the samurai ethos of what he called Bushido and the spirit of medieval chivalry and the ethos of ancient Greece, as observed in books such as the \"Iliad\" of Homer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43351530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43351530", "title": "Calvary (sanctuary)", "text": "Calvary (sanctuary)\n\nA calvary, also called calvary hill, Sacred Mount, or Sacred Mountain, is a type of Christian sacred place, built on the slopes of a hill, composed by a set of chapels, usually laid out in the form of a pilgrims' way. It is intended to represent the passion of Jesus Christ and its name after the Calvary, the hill in Jerusalem where, according to tradition, Jesus was crucified.\n\nThese function as greatly expanded versions of the Stations of the Cross that are usual in Catholic churches, allowing the devout to follow the progress of the stages of the Passion of Christ along the Via Dolorosa in Jerusalem. Each chapel contains a large image of the scene from the Passion it commemorates, sometimes in sculpture, that may be up to life-size. This kind of shrine was especially popular in the Baroque period when the Holy Land was under Turkish rule and it was difficult to make a pilgrimage to the Mount Calvary in Jerusalem. \n\nCalvaries were especially popular with the Franciscan and Jesuit orders, and are most common in Italy and Habsburg Central Europe. They were usually placed in parks near a church or a monastery, typically on a hill which the visitor gradually ascends. Italian ones are usually called a \"sacro monte\" (\"holy mountain\" or \"hill\"); there are a group of nine Sacri Monti of Piedmont and Lombardy that are especially notable; their dates of foundation vary between 1486 and 1712. Devotions would be most popular in Passion Week, before Easter, when large processions around the stations would be held, and mystery plays might be acted. If a calvary was established in an inhabited place, it might result in a location of a new village or town. Several villages and towns are named after such a complex.\n\nThe Mount of Calvary was the site outside the gates of Jerusalem where the crucifixion of Christ took place. The scene was replicated around the world in numerous \"calvary hills\" after the Counter-Reformation and they are used by Roman Catholics in particular as part of their worship and veneration of God.\n\nThe term is derived from the Latin translation in the Vulgate of the Aramaic name for original hill, \"Golgotha\", where it was called \n\"calvariae locus\", Latin for \"the place of the skull\". Martin Luther translated Golgatha as \"skull place\" (\"Scheddelstet\"). This translation is debated; at the very least it is not clear whether it referred to the shape of the hill, its use as a place of execution or burial or refers to something else.\n\n\"Calvary hill\" today refers to a roughly life-size depiction of the scene of crucifixion with crucifixes, usually the cross of Jesus and the two criminals, but many are more elaborate, including sculptures of additional figures. These scenes of the crucifixion are set up on small hillocks, which may be natural or artificial. Often 14 or so stations of the cross are laid out on the way up to the pilgrimage hill and there is often a small, remote church or chapel located between a few dozen to several hundred metres away.\n\nCalvary hills are also a symbol of Brittany, where they were built during the Breton Renaissance (between 1450 and the 17th century) especially in the Finistère in specially created parish closes.\nOf great importance was the erection of calvary hills north of the Alps in the Baroque era during the Counter-Reformation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe ' of Notre Dame de Tronoën in Saint-Jean-Trolimon (greater ') dates to 1450 and is one of the oldest in Brittany. Other famous locations in Brittany are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGerman:\n\nFrench:\n\n"}
{"id": "2851495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2851495", "title": "Can Dialectics Break Bricks?", "text": "Can Dialectics Break Bricks?\n\nLa dialectique peut-elle casser des briques ?, in English, \"Can Dialectics Break Bricks?\", is a 1973 Situationist film produced by the French director René Viénet which explores the development of class conflict through revolutionary agitation against a backdrop of graphic kung-fu fighting.\n\nThe film uses 1972 martial arts film \"Crush\" by Tu Guangqi, which tells the story of anti-colonialist revolt in Korea during the period of Japanese occupation, for its visuals which has been dubbed over by the filmmakers in an attempt at détournement. The concept and motivation of this film was to adapt a \"spectacular\" film into a radical critique of cultural hegemony and thus into tools of subversive revolutionary ideals.\n\nThe Narrative is based upon a conflict between the proletarian and bureaucrats within state capitalism. The proletarians enlist their dialectics and radical subjectivity to fight their oppressors whilst the bureaucrats defend themselves using a combination of co-optation and violence. The film is noted for its humorous approach to this serious subject matter.\n\nThe film also contains many praising references to revolutionaries who thought and fought for the realisation of a post-capitalist world, including Marx, Bakunin, and Wilhelm Reich, as well as scathing criticism towards the French Communist Party, trade unionism and Maoism. Also Subplots dealing with issues of gender equality, alienation, Paris Commune, May 1968, and the Situationist themselves are riddled throughout the film.\n\n"}
{"id": "24748949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24748949", "title": "Colorimeter (chemistry)", "text": "Colorimeter (chemistry)\n\nA colorimeter is a device used in colorimetry. In scientific fields the word generally refers to the device that measures the absorbance of particular wavelengths of light by a specific solution. This device is commonly used to determine the concentration of a known solute in a given solution by the application of the Beer-Lambert law, which states that the concentration of a solute is proportional to the absorbance.\n\nThe essential parts of a colorimeter are:\n\nIn addition, there may be:\n\nThere are many commercialized colorimeters as well as open source versions with construction documentation for education and for research.\n\nFilters:-\nChangeable [Filter (optics)|optics filters]are used in the colorimeter to select the wavelength which the solute absorbs the most, in order to maximize accuracy. The usual wavelength range is from 400 to 700 [nanometer] (nm). If it is necessary to operate in the [ultraviolet]range then some modifications to the colorimeter are needed. In modern colorimeters the filament lamp and filters may be replaced by several (light-emitting diode)of different colors.The Measurement of Colour.\n\nIn a manual colorimeter the cuvettes are inserted and removed by hand. An automated colorimeter (as used in an AutoAnalyzer) is fitted with a flowcell through which solution flows continuously.\n\nThe output from a colorimeter may be displayed by an analogue or digital meter and may be shown as transmittance (a linear scale from 0-100%) or as absorbance (a logarithmic scale from zero to infinity). The useful range of the absorbance scale is from 0-2 but it is desirable to keep within the range 0-1 because, above 1, the results become unreliable due to scattering of light.\n\nIn addition, the output may be sent to a chart recorder, data logger, or computer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36445225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36445225", "title": "Dido building Carthage", "text": "Dido building Carthage\n\nDido building Carthage, or The Rise of the Carthaginian Empire is an oil on canvas painting by J. M. W. Turner. The painting is one of Turner's most important works, greatly influenced by the luminous classical landscapes of Claude Lorraine. Turner described it as his chef d'oeuvre. First exhibited at the Royal Academy summer exhibition in 1815, Turner kept the painting until he left it to the nation in the Turner Bequest. It has been held by the National Gallery in London since 1856. \n\nThe subject is a classical landscape taken from Virgil's \"Aeneid\". The figure in blue and white on the left is Dido, directing the builders of the new city of Carthage. The figure in front of her, wearing armour and facing away from the viewer, may be her Trojan lover Aeneas. Some children are playing with a flimsy toy boat in the water, symbolising the growing but fragile naval power of Carthage, while the tomb of her dead husband Sychaeus, on the right side of the painting, on the other bank of the estuary, foreshadows the eventual doom of Carthage. \n\nThe painting measures by with the top half of the painting dominated by an intense yellow sunrise, symbolising the dawn of a new empire. The eruption of Mount Tambora in April 1815 created magnificent sunrises and sunsets which may have inspired Turner's paintings in this period. The painting was widely admired when it was first exhibited at the Royal Academy summer exhibition in 1815 together \"Crossing the Brook\", a pastoral landscape of the River Tamar in Devon also inspired by Claude. However, Turner's work was criticised by Sir George Beaumont, who complained that it was \"painted in false taste, not true to nature\" and did not reach the heights of Claude's works. Turner exhibited a companion piece, \"The Decline of the Carthaginian Empire\", at the summer exhibition in 1817.\n\nIn the first draft of his first will in 1829, Turner stipulated that he should be buried in the canvas of \"Dido building Carthage\", but changed his mind to make a donation of the painting and \"The Decline of the Carthaginian Empire\" to the National Gallery, on condition that his two paintings should always be hung either side of Claude's \"Seaport with the Embarkation of the Queen of Sheba\", a painting that Turner first saw when it was part of the Angerstein collection which later became the nucleus for the National Gallery. His revised will of 1831 changed the bequest, so \"Dido building Carthage\" would be accompanied by \"Sun rising through Vapour\", and the two works would be exhibited alongside \"Seaport with the Embarkation of the Queen of Sheba\" and \"Landscape with the Marriage of Isaac and Rebecca\" (also known as \"The Mill\"). A codicil in 1848 donated the remainder of his completed works to the new National Gallery in Trafalgar Square, so they could be displayed together. The Turner Bequest was contested by his relatives, but resolved by 1856 when the works were acquired by the National Gallery. Most of Turner's works eventually moved to the Tate Gallery in the early 20th century, but \"Dido building Carthage\" and \"Sun rising through Vapour\" remain at the National Gallery, shown with the Claudes; a few other selected works by Turner, including \"Rain, Steam and Speed\" and \"The Fighting Temeraire\" remain as examples of English painting at the National Gallery.\n\n"}
{"id": "8107810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8107810", "title": "Elizabeth Polack", "text": "Elizabeth Polack\n\nElizabeth Polack was an English playwright of the 1830s, notable for having been described by chroniclers of the period as England's first Jewish woman melodramatist.\n\nFew historical records survive which detail Elizabeth Polack's life. Although neither the year nor place of her birth have been noted, documentation of her activity as a playwright active in London between 1830 and 1838 remains for posterity. Contemporary records credit her with five plays, only two of which, \"Esther, the Royal Jewess; or The Death of Haman\" and \"St. Clair of the Isles; or The Outlaw of Barra\", have survived. \"Esther\", with a story taken from the Old Testament, and considered in its time to be a type of an \"Exotic East\" melodrama, was successfully produced in 1835 at London's Mile End Pavilion Theatre in the East End (the Pavilion was later a centre for Yiddish theatre in London). 1838's \"St. Clair\", based on an 1803 novel by Elizabeth Helme, met, however, with a very modest reception.\n\nPolack may have been a relation of Joel Samuel Polack, the first Jewish settler of New Zealand. Joel's biographer writes that he lived with his sister in Piccadilly when he first returned to England; that sister may have been Elizabeth.\n\nNo other details have emerged regarding Elizabeth Polack, including the year, place and circumstances of her death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37688019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37688019", "title": "Emeraz", "text": "Emeraz\n\nEmeraz is a social networking service to connect people in the music industry.\n\nEmeraz was founded in Dublin, Ireland in 2010, by producer and sound engineer, Stephen Brett. Emeraz originally started out as a place to collaborate online and copyright music. In September 2012 a new version of Emeraz launched and is now a complete social networking platform.\n\nUsers of Emeraz are able to collaborate with other musicians and present songs to well-known artists and producers, as well as getting feedback from leading names in the industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "63179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63179", "title": "Friedrich Dürrenmatt", "text": "Friedrich Dürrenmatt\n\nFriedrich Dürrenmatt (; 5 January 1921 – 14 December 1990) was a Swiss author and dramatist. He was a proponent of epic theatre whose plays reflected the recent experiences of World War II. The politically active author's work included avant-garde dramas, philosophical crime novels, and macabre satire. Dürrenmatt was a member of the Gruppe Olten.\n\nDürrenmatt was born in Konolfingen, canton of Bern, the son of a Protestant pastor. His grandfather, Ulrich Dürrenmatt, was a conservative politician. The family moved to Bern in 1935. Dürrenmatt began studies in philosophy, German philology and German literature at the University of Zürich in 1941, but moved to the University of Bern after one semester where he also studied natural science. In 1943, he decided to become an author and dramatist and dropped his academic career. In 1945–46, he wrote his first play \"It Is Written\". On 11 October 1946, he married the actress Lotti Geissler]. She died on 16 January 1983. Dürrenmatt married another actress, Charlotte Kerr, in 1984.\n\nDürrenmatt also enjoyed painting. Some of his own works and his drawings were exhibited in Neuchâtel in 1976 and 1985, as well as in Zürich in 1978.\n\nLike Bertolt Brecht, Dürrenmatt explored the dramatic possibilities of epic theatre. Next to Brecht, he has been called its \"most original theorist\".\n\nWhen he was 26, his first play, \"It Is Written\", premiered to great controversy. The story of the play revolves around a battle between a sensation-craving cynic and a religious fanatic who takes scripture literally, all of this taking place while the city they live in is under siege. The play's opening night in April 1947, caused fights and protests in the audience. Between 1948 and 1949, Dürrenmatt wrote several segments and sketches for the anti-Nazi Cabaret Cornichon in Zürich; among these, the single-act grotesque short play \"Der Gerettete\" (\"The Rescued\").\n\nHis first major success was the play \"Romulus the Great\". Set in the year A.D. 476, the play explores the last days of the Roman Empire, presided over, and brought about by its last emperor, Romulus. \"The Visit\" (\"Der Besuch der alten Dame\", 1956) is a grotesque fusion of comedy and tragedy about a wealthy woman who offers the people of her hometown a fortune if they will execute the man who jilted her years earlier. The satirical drama \"The Physicists\" (\"Die Physiker\", 1962), which deals with issues concerning science and its responsibility for dramatic and dangerous changes to the world, has also been presented in translation.\n\nRadio plays published in English include \"Hercules in the Augean Stables\" (\"Herkules und der Stall des Augias\", 1954), \"Incident at Twilight\" (\"Abendstunde im Spätherbst\", 1952) and \"The Mission of the Vega\" (\"Das Unternehmen der Wega\", 1954). The two late works \"Labyrinth\" and \"Turmbau zu Babel\" are a collection of unfinished ideas, stories, and philosophical thoughts.\n\nIn 1990, he gave two famous speeches, one in honour of Václav Havel (\"Die Schweiz, ein Gefängnis?/Switzerland a Prison?\"), the other in honour of Mikhail Gorbachev (\"Kants Hoffnung/Kant's Hope\"). Dürrenmatt often compared the three Abrahamic religions and Marxism, which he also saw as a religion.\n\nHe traveled in 1969 to the United States, in 1974 to Israel, and in 1990 to Auschwitz in Poland.\n\nDürrenmatt died from heart failure on 14 December 1990 in Neuchâtel.\n\n\n\nHis novel, \"A Dangerous Game\" (also known as \"Die Panne\" (\"Traps\")) was adapted into a Marathi play, \"Shantata! Court Chalu Aahe\" (Silence! The Court Is in Session) by Indian playwright Vijay Tendulkar in 1967. The play has since then been performed in various Indian languages, and made into a film by the same name by Satyadev Dubey.\n\nHis play \"The Visit\" has been adapted and Indianised into a play called \"Miss.Meena\" by Chennai-based theatre group 'perch'. \"The Visit\" has also been adapted as a musical by Kander and Ebb.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5210728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5210728", "title": "Gare Montparnasse (The Melancholy of Departure)", "text": "Gare Montparnasse (The Melancholy of Departure)\n\nGare Montparnasse (The Melancholy of Departure) (Italian: \"La stazione di Montparnasse)\" (1914) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. Many of de Chirico’s works were inspired by the introspective feelings evoked by travel. He was born in Greece to Italian parents. This work was painted during a period when he lived in Paris.\n\nThe painting depicts the Gare Montparnasse railway station in Paris, France. It is a classic example of de Chirico’s style, depicting an angular perspective on an outdoor architectural setting in the long shadows and deep colours of early evening. On the horizon is a steam train with a plume of white smoke billowing away from it. The train image appears several times in de Chirico's work. In the foreground is a bunch of bananas, another recurring image in de Chirico's work (cf. \"Le Rêve Transformé\").\n\nIn 1916, de Chirico painted another work simply titled \"The Melancholy of Departure\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3325318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3325318", "title": "Geomythology", "text": "Geomythology\n\nGeomythology is the study of alleged references to geological events in mythology. Dorothy Vitaliano, a geologist at Indiana University, coined the term in 1968.\n\nThe claim is that oral traditions about nature are often expressed in mythological language and may contain genuine and perceptive natural knowledge based on careful observation of physical evidence. Geomythology alleges to provide valuable information about past earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, impact events, fossil discoveries, and other events, which are otherwise scientifically unknown or difficult to trace.\n\nTo be distinguished from this are plainly aitiological tales that account for geological features without any connection to their formation; for example: the Native American legend of a giant bear chasing a couple who were saved when the land rose beneath their feet; the bear's claws left gouge marks on the sides of the uplift known today as Devils Tower, Wyoming.\n\nIn August 2004 the 32nd International Geological Congress held a session on \"Myth and Geology\", which resulted in the first peer-reviewed collection of papers on the subject (2007).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "429882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429882", "title": "Herzog &amp; de Meuron", "text": "Herzog &amp; de Meuron\n\nHerzog & de Meuron Basel Ltd., or Herzog & de Meuron Architekten, BSA/SIA/ETH (HdM), is a Swiss architecture firm with its head office in Basel, Switzerland. The careers of founders and senior partners Jacques Herzog (born 19 April 1950) and Pierre de Meuron (born 8 May 1950) closely paralleled one another, with both attending the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) in Zurich. They are perhaps best known for their conversion of the giant Bankside Power Station in London to the new home of Tate Modern. Jacques Herzog and Pierre de Meuron have been visiting professors at the Harvard University Graduate School of Design since 1994 and professors at ETH Zürich since 1999.\n\nHerzog & de Meuron was founded in Basel in 1978. In 2001, Herzog & de Meuron were awarded the Pritzker Prize, the highest of honours in architecture. Jury chairman J. Carter Brown commented, \"One is hard put to think of any architects in history that have addressed the integument of architecture with greater imagination and virtuosity.\" This was in reference to HdM's innovative use of exterior materials and treatments, such as silkscreened glass. Architecture critic and Pritzker juror Ada Louise Huxtable summarized HdM's approach concisely: \"They refine the traditions of modernism to elemental simplicity, while transforming materials and surfaces through the exploration of new treatments and techniques.\" In 2006, \"The New York Times Magazine\" called them \"one of the most admired architecture firms in the world.\"\n\nHdM's early works were reductivist pieces of modernity that registered on the same level as the minimalist art of Donald Judd. However, their recent work at Prada Tokyo, the Barcelona Forum Building and the Beijing National Stadium for the 2008 Olympic Games, suggest a changing attitude. The shapes and forms of some of the works suggest art glass and objects d'art that one would see on a coffee table, like an art deco ashtray or quirky container for chocolates - a building becomes a blown-up version of desk art because the computer can do it, mimic the plasticity of the medium, and make it possible as a feat of engineering.\n\nHdM's commitment of articulation through materiality is a common thread through all their projects. Their formal gestures have generally progressed from the purist simplicity of rectangular forms to more complex and dynamic geometries. The architects often cite Joseph Beuys as an enduring artistic inspiration and collaborate with different artists on each architectural project. Their success can be attributed to their skills in revealing unfamiliar or unknown relationships by utilizing innovative materials.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "451627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=451627", "title": "Ifrit", "text": "Ifrit\n\nIfrit, also spelled as efreet, efrite, ifreet, afreet, afrite and afrit (Arabic: ': , pl ': ) are supernatural creatures in some Middle Eastern stories. In Islam, this term refers to the most powerful and dangerous Jinn.\n\nThe Ifrits are a class of infernal djinn and also held to be a death spirit drawn to the life-force (or blood) of a murdered victim seeking revenge on the murderer. As with ordinary djinn, an Ifrit may be either a believer or an unbeliever, good or evil, but it is most often depicted as a wicked, ruthless, and evil being; a powerful Shaitan. Ifrits are believed to inhabit the levels of the underworld or desolated places on the surface, such as in ruins or caves.\n\nAccording to Islamic sources, the Ifrit has a fiery appearance with flames leaping from his mouth. It may be a danger to people, but can be destroyed if someone recites a Du'a (Islamic prayer) near it.\n\nIn folklore, they are commonly thought to take the shape of the deceased at the moment of death, or the appearance of the Shaitan. In the Islamic traditions of Cirebon, the Afarit are known as \"Mrekayangan\", a subcategory of demons. But their origin is different from the other demons, since the Mrekayangan appear after someone died improperly, while the demons are descendants of Iblis.\n\nThe word Ifrit seems to be of Arabic origin. Traditionally, Arab philologists trace the derivation of the word to (\"\", \"to rub with dust\"). Some Western philologists, such as Johann Jakob Hess and Karl Vollers, attribute it to Middle Persian \"afritan\" which corresponds to Modern Persian (to create).\n\nAn Ifrit is mentioned in the Qur'an, Sura An-Naml (27:38-40): [Solomon] said, \"O assembly [of jinn], which of you will bring me her [the Queen of Sheba's] throne before they come to me in submission?\" An Ifrit (strong one) from the jinn said: \"I will bring it to you before you rise from your place. And verily, I am indeed strong, and trustworthy for such work.\" One with whom was knowledge of the Scripture said: \"I will bring it to you within the twinkling of an eye!\" Then when Solomon saw it placed before him, he said: \"This is by the Grace of my Lord - to test me whether I am grateful or ungrateful! And whoever is grateful, truly, his gratitude is for (the good of) his own self; and whoever is ungrateful, (he is ungrateful only for the loss of his own self). Certainly, my Lord is Rich (Free of all needs), Bountiful.\"\n\nAccording to a hadith from Bukhari, an Ifrit tried to interrupt the prayers of Muhammed. Muhammed overpowered the Ifrit and wanted to fasten him to a pillar so that everyone can see him in the morning. Then, he remembered the statement of Solomon and he dismissed the Ifrit.\n\nAccording to a narration about Muhammeds Night Journey, an Ifrit sought Muhammed with a fiery torch. To get rid of him, he asked Jibraʾil for help. Jibraʾil then taught him how to seek refuge from God, whereupon the Ifrit get away from him.\n\nAn Ifrit, meeting Imam Ali, is mentioned in different Shi'i accounts. According to the Shabak community, Imam Ali became incensed against an Ifrit for his unbelieving. Consequently, he bound the Ifrit in chains. The Ifrit appealed to all prophets since Adam for his release. But no one was able to free him, until Muhammed found him and took the Ifrit to Imam Ali. He freed him on the condition that he would profess his faith for Islam.\n\nIn the Qisas Al-Anbiya (Stories of the Prophets), Afarit perform the orders of Iblis to plague Job. Each of these Afarit are endowed with specific abilities such as turning into a firy storm or killing by shouting out.\n\nIn \"One Thousand and One Nights\", in a tale called \"The Porter and the Young Girls\", there is a narrative about a prince who is attacked by pirates and takes refuge with a woodcutter. The prince finds an underground chamber in the forest leading to a beautiful woman who has been kidnapped by an Ifrit. The prince sleeps with the woman and both are attacked by the jealous Ifrit, who changes the prince into an ape. Later a princess restores the prince and fights a pitched battle with the Ifrit, who changes shape into various animals, fruit, and fire until being reduced to cinders. In the book, the word is used interchangeably with \"genie\" and the spirit is malevolent but easily tricked by the protagonist.\n\nThe blind poet Al-Maʿarri mentioned in his narrations, a paradise for \"Afarit\" with \"narrow straits\" and \"dark valleys\".\n\nIn early folklore, the Ifrit is said to be formed from the blood of a murder victim. Driving an unused nail into the blood was supposed to stop their formation. The creatures were reported as being able to take the form of Satan, the murder victim, or even a sandstorm.\n\nAn Ifrit plays a major role as a story element in bollywood film \"\" where the lead character played by Anushka Sharma is the progeny of an Ifrit and human, due to a cult practice. The film was based on a book series called \"An Ember in the Ashes'.\n\nThe trading card game \"\" has featured several \"efreet\" since the earliest expansion sets.\n\nIfrit is a prominent Summon to fight with in the \"Final Fantasy\" video game series. Like their mythological counterparts, Ifrit's are spirits of fire and destruction, almost always appearing as a devilish monster that uses either fire, earth, or both to do damage to either the monster the player is fighting or as a boss against the player himself.\n\n"}
{"id": "19381951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19381951", "title": "Iliad", "text": "Iliad\n\nThe Iliad (; \"\", in Classical Attic; sometimes referred to as the Song of Ilion or Song of Ilium) is an ancient Greek epic poem in dactylic hexameter, traditionally attributed to Homer. Set during the Trojan War, the ten-year siege of the city of Troy (Ilium) by a coalition of Greek states, it tells of the battles and events during the weeks of a quarrel between King Agamemnon and the warrior Achilles.\n\nAlthough the story covers only a few weeks in the final year of the war, the \"Iliad\" mentions or alludes to many of the Greek legends about the siege; the earlier events, such as the gathering of warriors for the siege, the cause of the war, and related concerns tend to appear near the beginning. Then the epic narrative takes up events prophesied for the future, such as Achilles' imminent death and the fall of Troy, although the narrative ends before these events take place. However, as these events are prefigured and alluded to more and more vividly, when it reaches an end the poem has told a more or less complete tale of the Trojan War.\n\nThe \"Iliad\" is paired with something of a sequel, the \"Odyssey\", also attributed to Homer. Along with the \"Odyssey\", the \"Iliad\" is among the oldest extant works of Western literature, and its written version is usually dated to around the 8th century BC. In the modern vulgate (the standard accepted version), the \"Iliad\" contains 15,693 lines; it is written in Homeric Greek, a literary amalgam of Ionic Greek and other dialects. According to Michael N. Nagler, the \"Iliad\" is a more complicated epic poem than the \"Odyssey\".\n\n() After an invocation to the Muses, the story launches \"in medias res\" towards the end of the Trojan War between the Trojans and the besieging Greeks. Chryses, a Trojan priest of Apollo, offers the Greeks wealth for the return of his daughter Chryseis, held captive of Agamemnon, the Greek leader. Although most of the Greek army is in favour of the offer, Agamemnon refuses. Chryses prays for Apollo's help, and Apollo causes a plague to afflict the Greek army.\n\nAfter nine days of plague, Achilles, the leader of the Myrmidon contingent, calls an assembly to deal with the problem. Under pressure, Agamemnon agrees to return Chryseis to her father, but decides to take Achilles' captive, Brisēís, as compensation. Angered, Achilles declares that he and his men will no longer fight for Agamemnon and will go home. Odysseus takes a ship and returns Chryseis to her father, whereupon Apollo ends the plague.\n\nIn the meantime, Agamemnon's messengers take Briseis away. Achilles becomes very upset, sits by the seashore, and prays to his mother, Thetis. Achilles asks his mother to ask Zeus to bring the Greeks to the breaking point by the Trojans, so Agamemnon will realize how much the Greeks need Achilles. Thetis does so, and Zeus agrees.\n\n() Zeus sends a dream to Agamemnon, urging him to attack Troy. Agamemnon heeds the dream but decides to first test the Greek army's morale, by telling them to go home. The plan backfires, and only the intervention of Odysseus, inspired by Athena, stops a rout.\n\nOdysseus confronts and beats Thersites, a common soldier who voices discontent about fighting Agamemnon's war. After a meal, the Greeks deploy in companies upon the Trojan plain. The poet takes the opportunity to describe the provenance of each Greek contingent.\n\nWhen news of the Greek deployment reaches King Priam, the Trojans too sortie upon the plain. In a list similar to that for the Greeks, the poet describes the Trojans and their allies.\n\n() The armies approach each other, but before they meet, Paris offers to end the war by fighting a duel with Menelaus, urged by his brother and head of the Trojan army, Hector. While Helen tells Priam about the Greek commanders from the walls of Troy, both sides swear a truce and promise to abide by the outcome of the duel. Paris is beaten, but Aphrodite rescues him and leads him to bed with Helen before Menelaus can kill him.\n\n() Pressured by Hera's hatred of Troy, Zeus arranges for the Trojan Pandaros to break the truce by wounding Menelaus with an arrow. Agamemnon rouses the Greeks, and battle is joined.\n\n() In the fighting, Diomedes kills many Trojans, including Pandaros, and defeats Aeneas, whom Aphrodite rescues, but Diomedes attacks and wounds the goddess. Apollo faces Diomedes and warns him against warring with gods. Many heroes and commanders join in, including Hector, and the gods supporting each side try to influence the battle. Emboldened by Athena, Diomedes wounds Ares and puts him out of action.\n\n() Hector rallies the Trojans and prevents a rout; the Greek Diomedes and the Trojan Glaukos find common ground and exchange unequal gifts. Hector enters the city, urges prayers and sacrifices, incites Paris to battle, bids his wife Andromache and son Astyanax farewell on the city walls, and rejoins the battle.\n\n() Hector duels with Ajax, but nightfall interrupts the fight, and both sides retire. The Greeks agree to burn their dead, and build a wall to protect their ships and camp, while the Trojans quarrel about returning Helen. Paris offers to return the treasure he took and give further wealth as compensation, but not Helen, and the offer is refused.\nA day's truce is agreed for burning the dead, during which the Greeks also build their wall and a trench.\n\n() The next morning, Zeus prohibits the gods from interfering, and fighting begins anew. The Trojans prevail and force the Greeks back to their wall, while Hera and Athena are forbidden to help. Night falls before the Trojans can assail the Greek wall. They camp in the field to attack at first light, and their watchfires light the plain like stars.\n() Meanwhile, the Greeks are desperate. Agamemnon admits his error, and sends an embassy composed of Odysseus, Ajax, Phoenix, and two heralds to offer Briseis and extensive gifts to Achilles, who has been camped next to his ships throughout, if only he will return to the fighting. Achilles and his companion Patroclus receive the embassy well, but Achilles angrily refuses Agamemnon's offer and declares that he would only return to battle if the Trojans reached his ships and threatened them with fire. The embassy returns empty-handed.\n\n() Later that night, Odysseus and Diomedes venture out to the Trojan lines, kill the Trojan Dolon, and wreak havoc in the camps of some Thracian allies of Troy's.\n\n() In the morning, the fighting is fierce, and Agamemnon, Diomedes, and Odysseus are all wounded. Achilles sends Patroclus from his camp to inquire about the Greek casualties, and while there Patroclus is moved to pity by a speech of Nestor's.\n\n() The Trojans attack the Greek wall on foot. Hector, ignoring an omen, leads the terrible fighting. The Greeks are overwhelmed and routed, the wall's gate is broken, and Hector charges in.\n\n() Many fall on both sides. The Trojan seer Polydamas urges Hector to fall back and warns him about Achilles, but is ignored.\n\n() Hera seduces Zeus and lures him to sleep, allowing Poseidon to help the Greeks, and the Trojans are driven back onto the plain.\n\n() Zeus awakes and is enraged by Poseidon's intervention. Against the mounting discontent of the Greek-supporting gods, Zeus sends Apollo to aid the Trojans, who once again breach the wall, and the battle reaches the ships.\n\n() Patroclus cannot stand to watch any longer and begs Achilles to be allowed to defend the ships. Achilles relents and lends Patroclus his armor, but sends him off with a stern admonition not to pursue the Trojans, lest he take Achilles' glory. Patroclus leads the Myrmidons into battle and arrives as the Trojans set fire to the first ships. The Trojans are routed by the sudden onslaught, and Patroclus begins his assault by killing Zeus's son Sarpedon, a leading ally of the Trojans. Patroclus, ignoring Achilles' command, pursues and reaches the gates of Troy, where Apollo himself stops him. Patroclus is set upon by Apollo and Euphorbos, and is finally killed by Hector.\n\n() Hector takes Achilles' armor from the fallen Patroclus, but fighting develops around Patroclus' body.\n\n() Achilles is mad with grief when he hears of Patroclus' death and vows to take vengeance on Hector; his mother Thetis grieves, too, knowing that Achilles is fated to die young if he kills Hector. Achilles is urged to help retrieve Patroclus' body but has no armour. Bathed in a brilliant radiance by Athena, Achilles stands next to the Greek wall and roars in rage. The Trojans are dismayed by his appearance, and the Greeks manage to bear Patroclus' body away. Polydamas urges Hector again to withdraw into the city; again Hector refuses, and the Trojans camp on the plain at nightfall. Patroclus is mourned. Meanwhile, at Thetis' request, Hephaestus fashions a new set of armor for Achilles, including a magnificently wrought shield.\n\n() In the morning, Agamemnon gives Achilles all the promised gifts, including Briseis, but Achilles is indifferent to them. Achilles fasts while the Greeks take their meal, straps on his new armor, and heaves his great spear. His horse Xanthos prophesies to Achilles his death. Achilles drives his chariot into battle.\n\n() Zeus lifts the ban on the gods' interference, and the gods freely help both sides. Achilles, burning with rage and grief, slays many.\n\n() Driving the Trojans before him, Achilles cuts off half their number in the river Skamandros and proceeds to slaughter them, filling the river with the dead. The river, angry at the killing, confronts Achilles but is beaten back by Hephaestus' firestorm. The gods fight among themselves. The great gates of the city are opened to receive the fleeing Trojans, and Apollo leads Achilles away from the city by pretending to be a Trojan.\n\n() When Apollo reveals himself to Achilles, the Trojans have retreated into the city, all except for Hector, who, having twice ignored the counsels of Polydamas, feels the shame of the rout and resolves to face Achilles, despite the pleas of his parents, Priam and Hecuba. When Achilles approaches, Hector's will fails him, and he is chased around the city by Achilles. Finally, Athena tricks him into stopping, and he turns to face his opponent. After a brief duel, Achilles stabs Hector through the neck. Before dying, Hector reminds Achilles that he, too, is fated to die in the war. Achilles takes Hector's body and dishonours it by dragging it behind his chariot.\n\n() The ghost of Patroclus comes to Achilles in a dream, urging him to carry out his burial rites and to arrange for their bones to be entombed together. The Greeks hold a day of funeral games, and Achilles gives out the prizes.\n\n() Dismayed by Achilles' continued abuse of Hector's body, Zeus decides that it must be returned to Priam. Led by Hermes, Priam takes a wagon out of Troy, across the plains, and into the Greek camp unnoticed. He clasps Achilles by the knees and begs for his son's body. Achilles is moved to tears, and the two lament their losses in the war. After a meal, Priam carries Hector's body back into Troy. Hector is buried, and the city mourns.\n\nThe many characters of the \"Iliad\" are catalogued; the latter half of Book II, the \"Catalogue of Ships\", lists commanders and cohorts; battle scenes feature quickly slain minor characters.\n\n\nMuch debate has surrounded the nature of the relationship of Achilles and Patroclus, as to whether it can be described as a homoerotic one or not. Classical and Hellenistic Athenian scholars perceived it as pederastic, while others perceived it as a platonic warrior-bond.\n\n\nIn the literary Trojan War of the \"Iliad\", the Olympian gods, goddesses, and minor deities fight among themselves and participate in human warfare, often by interfering with humans to counter other gods. Unlike their portrayals in Greek religion, Homer's portrayal of gods suited his narrative purpose. The gods in traditional thought of fourth-century Athenians were not spoken of in terms familiar to us from Homer. The Classical-era historian Herodotus says that Homer and Hesiod, his contemporary, were the first writers to name and describe the gods' appearance and character.\n\nIn \"Greek Gods Human Lives: What We Can Learn From Myths\", Mary Lefkowitz discusses the relevance of divine action in the \"Iliad\", attempting to answer the question of whether or not divine intervention is a discrete occurrence (for its own sake), or if such godly behaviors are mere human character metaphors. The intellectual interest of Classic-era authors, such as Thucydides and Plato, was limited to their utility as \"a way of talking about human life rather than a description or a truth\", because, if the gods remain religious figures, rather than human metaphors, their \"existence\"—without the foundation of either dogma or \"a\" bible of faiths—then allowed Greek culture the intellectual breadth and freedom to conjure gods fitting any religious function they required as a people. The religion had no founder and was not the creation of an inspired teacher which were popular origins of existing religions in the world. The individuals were free to believe what they wanted, as the Greek religion was created out of a consensus of the people. These beliefs coincide to the thoughts about the gods in polytheistic Greek religion. In the article \"Greek Religion\" A.W.H. Adkins, agrees with this by saying, “The early Greeks personalized every aspect of their world, natural and cultural, and their experiences in it. The earth, the sea, the mountains, the rivers, custom-law (themis), and one’s share in society and its goods were all seen in personal as well as naturalistic terms.” As a result of this thinking, each god or goddess in Polytheistic Greek religion is attributed to an aspect of the human world. For example, Poseidon is the god of the sea, Aphrodite is the goddess of beauty, Ares is the god of war, and so on and so forth for many other gods. This is how Greek culture was defined as many Athenians felt the presence of their gods through divine intervention in significant events in their lives. Oftentimes they found these events to be mysterious and inexplicable.\n\nIn \"The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind\", psychologist Julian Jaynes uses the \"Iliad\" as a major piece of evidence for his theory of Bicameralism, which posits that until about the time described in the \"Iliad\", humans had a much different mentality than present day humans. He says that humans during that time were lacking what we today call consciousness. He suggests that humans heard and obeyed commands from what they identified as gods, until the change in human mentality that incorporated the motivating force into the conscious self. He points out that almost every action in the \"Iliad\" is directed, caused, or influenced by a god, and that earlier translations show an astonishing lack of words suggesting thought, planning, or introspection. Those that do appear, he argues, are misinterpretations made by translators imposing a modern mentality on the characters.\n\nSome scholars believe that the gods may have intervened in the mortal world because of quarrels they may have had among each other. Homer interprets the world at this time by using the passion and emotion of the gods to be determining factors of what happens on the human level. An example of one of these relationships in the \"Iliad\" occurs between Athena, Hera, and Aphrodite. In the final book of the poem Homer writes, “He offended Athena and Hera—both goddesses.” Athena and Hera are envious of Aphrodite because of a beauty pageant on Mount Olympus in which Paris chose Aphrodite to be the most beautiful goddess over both Hera and Athena. Wolfgang Kullmann further goes on to say, “Hera’s and Athena’s disappointment over the victory of Aphrodite in the Judgement of Paris determines the whole conduct of both goddesses in \"The Iliad\" and is the cause of their hatred for Paris, the Judge, and his town Troy.” Hera and Athena then continue to support the Achaean forces throughout the poem because Paris is part of the Trojans, while Aphrodite aids Paris and the Trojans. The emotions between the goddesses often translate to actions they take in the mortal world. For example, in Book 3 of The Iliad, Paris challenges any of the Achaeans to a single combat and Menelaus steps forward. Menelaus was dominating the battle and was on the verge of killing Paris. “Now he’d have hauled him off and won undying glory but Aphrodite, Zeus’s daughter was quick to the mark, snapped the rawhide strap.” Aphrodite intervened out of her own self-interest to save Paris from the wrath of Menelaus because Paris had helped her to win the beauty pageant. The partisanship of Aphrodite towards Paris induces constant intervention by all of the gods, especially to give motivational speeches to their respective proteges, while often appearing in the shape of a human being they are familiar with. This connection of emotions to actions is just one example out of many that occur throughout the poem.\n\nFate (, \"kēr\", \"fated death\") propels most of the events of the \"Iliad\". Once set, gods and men abide it, neither truly able nor willing to contest it. How fate is set is unknown, but it is told by the Fates and by Zeus through sending omens to seers such as Calchas. Men and their gods continually speak of heroic acceptance and cowardly avoidance of one's slated fate. Fate does not determine every action, incident, and occurrence, but it does determine the outcome of life—before killing him, Hector calls Patroclus a fool Patroclus retorts:\n\nNo, deadly destiny, with the son of Leto, has killed me,\nand of men it was Euphorbos; you are only my third slayer.\nAnd put away in your heart this other thing that I tell you.\nYou yourself are not one who shall live long, but now already\ndeath and powerful destiny are standing beside you,\nto go down under the hands of Aiakos' great son, Achilleus.\nHere, Patroclus alludes to fated death by Hector's hand, and Hector's fated death by Achilles's hand. Each accepts the outcome of his life, yet, no-one knows if the gods can alter fate. The first instance of this doubt occurs in Book XVI. Seeing Patroclus about to kill Sarpedon, his mortal son, Zeus says:\nAh me, that it is destined that the dearest of men, Sarpedon,\nmust go down under the hands of Menoitios' son Patroclus.\nAbout his dilemma, Hera asks Zeus:\nMajesty, son of Kronos, what sort of thing have you spoken?\nDo you wish to bring back a man who is mortal, one long since\ndoomed by his destiny, from ill-sounding death and release him?\nDo it, then; but not all the rest of us gods shall approve you.\nIn deciding between losing a son or abiding fate, Zeus, King of the Gods, allows it. This motif recurs when he considers sparing Hector, whom he loves and respects. This time, it is Athene who challenges him:\nFather of the shining bolt, dark misted, what is this you said?\nDo you wish to bring back a man who is mortal, one long since\ndoomed by his destiny, from ill-sounding death and release him?\nDo it, then; but not all the rest of us gods shall approve you.\nAgain, Zeus appears capable of altering fate, but does not, deciding instead to abide set outcomes; yet, contrariwise, fate spares Aeneas, after Apollo convinces the over-matched Trojan to fight Achilles. Poseidon cautiously speaks:\nBut come, let us ourselves get him away from death, for fear\nthe son of Kronos may be angered if now Achilleus\nkills this man. It is destined that he shall be the survivor,\nthat the generation of Dardanos shall not die ...\nDivinely aided, Aeneas escapes the wrath of Achilles and survives the Trojan War. Whether or not the gods can alter fate, they do abide it, despite its countering their human allegiances; thus, the mysterious origin of fate is a power beyond the gods. Fate implies the primeval, tripartite division of the world that Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades effected in deposing their father, Cronus, for its dominion. Zeus took the Air and the Sky, Poseidon the Waters, and Hades the Underworld, the land of the dead—yet they share dominion of the Earth. Despite the earthly powers of the Olympic gods, only the Three Fates set the destiny of Man.\n\n\"Kleos\" (, \"glory, fame\") is the concept of glory earned in heroic battle. Yet, Achilles must choose only one of the two rewards, either \"nostos\" or \"kleos\". In Book IX (IX.410–16), he poignantly tells Agamemnon's envoys—Odysseus, Phoenix, Ajax—begging his reinstatement to battle about having to choose between two fates (, 9.411).\n\nThe passage reads:\nIn forgoing his \"nostos\", he will earn the greater reward of \"kleos aphthiton\" (, \"fame imperishable\"). In the poem, \"aphthiton\" (, \"imperishable\") occurs five other times, each occurrence denotes an object: Agamemnon's sceptre, the wheel of Hebe's chariot, the house of Poseidon, the throne of Zeus, the house of Hephaestus. Translator Lattimore renders \"kleos aphthiton\" as \"forever immortal\" and as \"forever imperishable\"—connoting Achilles's mortality by underscoring his greater reward in returning to battle Troy.\n\nKleos is often given visible representation by the prizes won in battle. When Agamemnon takes Briseis from Achilles, he takes away a portion of the kleos he had earned.\n\nAchilles' shield, crafted by Hephaestus and given to him by his mother Thetis, bears an image of stars in the centre. The stars conjure profound images of the place of a single man, no matter how heroic, in the perspective of the entire cosmos.\n\n\"Nostos\" (, \"homecoming\") occurs seven times in the poem, making it a minor theme in the Iliad itself. Yet the concept of homecoming is much explored in other Ancient Greek literature, especially in the post-war homeward fortunes experienced by the Atreidae (Agamemnon and Menelaus), and Odysseus (see the \"Odyssey\").\n\n\"Pride\" drives the plot of the Iliad. The Greeks gather on the plain of Troy to wrest Helen from the Trojans. Though the majority of the Trojans would gladly return Helen to the Greeks, they defer to the pride of their prince, Alexandros, also known as Paris. Within this frame, Homer’s work begins. At the start of the Iliad, Agamemnon’s pride sets forth a chain of events that leads him to take from Achilles, Briseis, the girl that he had originally given Achilles in return for his martial prowess. Due to this slight, Achilles refuses to fight and asks his mother, Thetis, to make sure that Zeus causes the Greeks to suffer on the battlefield until Agamemnon comes to realize the harm he has done to Achilles. Achilles’ pride allows him to beg Thetis for the deaths of his Greek friends and countrymen. When in Book 9 his friends urge him to return, offering him loot and his girl, Briseis, he refuses, stuck in his vengeful pride. Achilles remains stuck until the very end, when his anger at himself for Patroclus’ death overcomes his pride at Agamemnon’s slight and he returns to kill Hector. He overcomes his pride again when he keeps his anger in check and returns Hector to Priam at epic’s close. From epic start to epic finish, pride drives the plot.\n\nAkin to \"kleos\" is \"timê\" (, \"respect, honor\"), the concept denoting the respectability an honorable man accrues with accomplishment (cultural, political, martial), per his station in life. In Book I, the Greek troubles begin with King Agamemnon's dishonorable, unkingly behavior—first, by threatening the priest Chryses (1.11), then, by aggravating them in disrespecting Achilles, by confiscating Briseis from him (1.171). The warrior's consequent rancor against the dishonorable king ruins the Greek military cause.\n\n\"Hybris\" (\"Ὕβρις\") plays a part similar to \"timê.\" The epic takes as its thesis the anger of Achilles and the destruction it brings. Anger disturbs the distance between human beings and the gods. Uncontrolled anger destroys orderly social relationships and upsets the balance of correct actions necessary to keep the gods away from human beings. (footnote Thompson). Despite the epic’s focus on Achilles’ rage, hybris plays a prominent role also, serving as both kindling and fuel for many destructive events. Agamemnon refuses to ransom Chriseis up out of hybris and harms Achilles’ pride when he demands Briseis. Hybris forces Paris to fight against Menelaus. Agamemnon spurs the Greeks to fight, by calling into question Odysseus, Diomedes, and Nestor’s pride, asking why they were cowering and waiting for help when they should be the ones leading the charge. While the events of the Iliad focus on the Achilles’ rage and the destruction it brings on, hybris fuels and stokes them both.\n\nThe poem's initial word, (\"mēnin\", accusative of , \"mēnis\", \"wrath, rage, fury\"), establishes the \"Iliad's\" principal theme: The \"Wrath of Achilles\". His personal rage and wounded soldier's vanity propel the story: the Greeks' faltering in battle, the slayings of Patroclus and Hector, and the fall of Troy. In Book I, the Wrath of Achilles first emerges in the Achilles-convoked meeting, between the Greek kings and the seer Calchas. King Agamemnon dishonours Chryses, the Trojan priest of Apollo, by refusing with a threat the restitution of his daughter, Chryseis—despite the proffered ransom of \"gifts beyond count\". The insulted priest prays his god's help, and a nine-day rain of divine plague arrows falls upon the Greeks. Moreover, in that meeting, Achilles accuses Agamemnon of being \"greediest for gain of all men\". To that, Agamemnon replies:\nBut here is my threat to you.\nEven as Phoibos Apollo is taking away my Chryseis.\nI shall convey her back in my own ship, with my own\nfollowers; but I shall take the fair-cheeked Briseis,\nyour prize, I myself going to your shelter, that you may learn well\nhow much greater I am than you, and another man may shrink back\nfrom likening himself to me and contending against me.\nAfter that, only Athena stays Achilles's wrath. He vows to never again obey orders from Agamemnon. Furious, Achilles cries to his mother, Thetis, who persuades Zeus's divine intervention—favouring the Trojans—until Achilles's rights are restored. Meanwhile, Hector leads the Trojans to almost pushing the Greeks back to the sea (Book XII). Later, Agamemnon contemplates defeat and retreat to Greece (Book XIV). Again, the Wrath of Achilles turns the war's tide in seeking vengeance when Hector kills Patroclus. Aggrieved, Achilles tears his hair and dirties his face. Thetis comforts her mourning son, who tells her:\nSo it was here that the lord of men Agamemnon angered me.\nStill, we will let all this be a thing of the past, and for all our\nsorrow beat down by force the anger deeply within us.\nNow I shall go, to overtake that killer of a dear life,\nHektor; then I will accept my own death, at whatever\ntime Zeus wishes to bring it about, and the other immortals.\nAccepting the prospect of death as fair price for avenging Patroclus, he returns to battle, dooming Hector and Troy, thrice chasing him 'round the Trojan walls, before slaying him, then dragging the corpse behind his chariot, back to camp.\n\nThe poem dates to the archaic period of Classical Antiquity. Scholarly consensus mostly places it in the 8th century BC, although some favour a 7th-century date. Herodotus, having consulted the Oracle at Dodona, placed Homer and Hesiod at approximately 400 years before his own time, which would place them at c.850 BC.\n\nThe historical backdrop of the poem is the time of the Late Bronze Age collapse, in the early 12th century BC. Homer is thus separated from his subject matter by about 400 years, the period known as the Greek Dark Ages. Intense scholarly debate has surrounded the question of which portions of the poem preserve genuine traditions from the Mycenaean period. The \"Catalogue of Ships\" in particular has the striking feature that its geography does not portray Greece in the Iron Age, the time of Homer, but as it was before the Dorian invasion.\n\nThe title \"Ilias\" (genitive \"Iliados\") is elliptic for \"he poíesis Iliás\", meaning \"the Trojan poem\". , \"of Troy\", is the specifically feminine adjective form from , \"Troy\"; the masculine adjective form would be or . It is used by Herodotus.\n\nVenetus A, copied in the 10th century AD, is the oldest fully extant manuscript of the \"Iliad.\"\nThe first edition of the \"Iliad\", \"editio princeps\", edited by Demetrius Chalcondyles and published by Bernardus Nerlius, and Demetrius Damilas in Florence in 1488/89.\n\nIn antiquity, the Greeks applied the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" as the bases of pedagogy. Literature was central to the educational-cultural function of the itinerant rhapsode, who composed \"consistent\" epic poems from memory and improvisation, and disseminated them, via song and chant, in his travels and at the Panathenaic Festival of athletics, music, poetics, and sacrifice, celebrating Athena's birthday.\n\nOriginally, Classical scholars treated the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" as written poetry, and Homer as a writer. Yet, by the 1920s, Milman Parry (1902–1935) had launched a movement claiming otherwise. His investigation of the oral Homeric style—\"stock epithets\" and \"reiteration\" (words, phrases, stanzas)—established that these \"formulae\" were artifacts of oral tradition easily applied to an hexametric line. A two-word stock epithet (e.g. \"resourceful Odysseus\") reiteration may complement a character name by filling a half-line, thus, freeing the poet to compose a half-line of \"original\" formulaic text to complete his meaning. In Yugoslavia, Parry and his assistant, Albert Lord (1912–1991), studied the oral-formulaic composition of Serbian oral poetry, yielding the Parry/Lord thesis that established oral tradition studies, later developed by Eric Havelock, Marshall McLuhan, Walter Ong, and Gregory Nagy.\n\nIn \"The Singer of Tales\" (1960), Lord presents likenesses between the tragedies of the Greek Patroclus, in the \"Iliad\", and of the Sumerian Enkidu, in the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", and claims to refute, with \"careful analysis of the repetition of thematic patterns\", that the Patroclus storyline upsets Homer's established compositional formulae of \"wrath, bride-stealing, and rescue\"; thus, stock-phrase \"reiteration\" does not restrict his originality in fitting story to rhyme. Likewise, in \"The Arming Motif\", Prof. James Armstrong reports that the poem's \"formulae\" yield richer meaning because the \"arming motif\" \"diction\"—describing Achilles, Agamemnon, Paris, and Patroclus—serves to \"heighten the importance of ... an impressive moment\", thus, \"[reiteration] creates an atmosphere of smoothness\", wherein, Homer distinguishes Patroclus from Achilles, and foreshadows the former's death with positive and negative turns of phrase.\n\nIn the \"Iliad\", occasional syntactic inconsistency may be an oral tradition effect—for example, Aphrodite is \"laughter-loving\", despite being painfully wounded by Diomedes (Book V, 375); and the divine representations may mix Mycenaean and Greek Dark Age (c. 1150–800 BC) mythologies, parallelling the hereditary \"basileis\" nobles (lower social rank rulers) with minor deities, such as Scamander, et al.\n\nDespite Mycenae and Troy being maritime powers, the \"Iliad\" features no sea battles. So, the Trojan shipwright (of the ship that transported Helen to Troy), Phereclus, fights afoot, as an infantryman. The battle dress and armour of hero and soldier are well-described. They enter battle in chariots, launching javelins into the enemy formations, then dismount—for hand-to-hand combat with yet more javelin throwing, rock throwing, and if necessary hand to hand sword and a shoulder-borne \"hoplon\" (shield) fighting. Ajax the Greater, son of Telamon, sports a large, rectangular shield (, \"sakos\") with which he protects himself and Teucer, his brother:\n\nAjax's cumbersome shield is more suitable for defence than for offence, while his cousin, Achilles, sports a large, rounded, octagonal shield that he successfully deploys along with his spear against the Trojans:\n\nIn describing infantry combat, Homer names the phalanx formation, but most scholars do not believe the historical Trojan War was so fought. In the Bronze Age, the chariot was the main battle transport-weapon (e.g. the Battle of Kadesh). The available evidence, from the Dendra armour and the Pylos Palace paintings, indicate the Mycenaeans used two-man chariots, with a long-spear-armed principal rider, unlike the three-man Hittite chariots with short-spear-armed riders, and unlike the arrow-armed Egyptian and Assyrian two-man chariots. Nestor spearheads his troops with chariots; he advises them:\n\nAlthough Homer's depictions are graphic, it can be seen in the very end that victory in war is a far more somber occasion, where all that is lost becomes apparent. On the other hand, the funeral games are lively, for the dead man's life is celebrated. This overall depiction of war runs contrary to many other ancient Greek depictions, where war is an aspiration for greater glory.\n\nWhile the Homeric poems (the \"Iliad\" in particular) were not necessarily revered scripture of the ancient Greeks, they were most certainly seen as guides that were important to the intellectual understanding of any educated Greek citizen. This is evidenced by the fact that in the late fifth century BC, \"it was the sign of a man of standing to be able to recite the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" by heart.\" Moreover, it can be argued that the warfare shown in the \"Iliad\", and the way in which it was depicted, had a profound and very traceable effect on Greek warfare in general. In particular, the effect of epic literature can be broken down into three categories: tactics, ideology, and the mindset of commanders. In order to discern these effects, it is necessary to take a look at a few examples from each of these categories.\n\nMuch of the detailed fighting in the \"Iliad\" is done by the heroes in an orderly, one-on-one fashion. Much like the \"Odyssey\", there is even a set ritual which must be observed in each of these conflicts. For example, a major hero may encounter a lesser hero from the opposing side, in which case the minor hero is introduced, threats may be exchanged, and then the minor hero is slain. The victor often strips the body of its armor and military accoutrements. Here is an example of this ritual and this type of one-on-one combat in the \"Iliad\":\nThere Telamonian Ajax struck down the son of Anthemion,\nSimoeisios in his stripling's beauty, whom once his mother\ndescending from Ida bore beside the banks of Simoeis\nwhen she had followed her father and mother to tend the\nsheepflocks.\nTherefore they called him Simoeisios; but he could not\nrender again the care of his dear parents; he was short-lived,\nbeaten down beneath the spear of high-hearted Ajax,\nwho struck him as he first came forward beside the nipple\nof the right breast, and the bronze spearhead drove clean\nthrough the shoulder.\nThe biggest issue in reconciling the connection between the epic fighting of the \"Iliad\" and later Greek warfare is the phalanx, or hoplite, warfare seen in Greek history well after Homer's \"Iliad\". While there are discussions of soldiers arrayed in semblances of the phalanx throughout the \"Iliad\", the focus of the poem on the heroic fighting, as mentioned above, would seem to contradict the tactics of the phalanx. However, the phalanx did have its heroic aspects. The masculine one-on-one fighting of epic is manifested in phalanx fighting on the emphasis of holding one's position in formation. This replaces the singular heroic competition found in the \"Iliad\".\n\nOne example of this is the Spartan tale of 300 picked men fighting against 300 picked Argives. In this battle of champions, only two men are left standing for the Argives and one for the Spartans. Othryades, the remaining Spartan, goes back to stand in his formation with mortal wounds while the remaining two Argives go back to Argos to report their victory. Thus, the Spartans claimed this as a victory, as their last man displayed the ultimate feat of bravery by maintaining his position in the phalanx.\n\nIn terms of the ideology of commanders in later Greek history, the \"Iliad\" has an interesting effect. The \"Iliad\" expresses a definite disdain for tactical trickery, when Hector says, before he challenges the great Ajax: \n\nI know how to storm my way into the struggle of flying horses; I know how to tread the measures on the grim floor of the war god. Yet great as you are I would not strike you by stealth, watching for my chance, but openly, so, if perhaps I might hit you.\n\nHowever, despite examples of disdain for this tactical trickery, there is reason to believe that the \"Iliad\", as well as later Greek warfare, endorsed tactical genius on the part of their commanders. For example, there are multiple passages in the \"Iliad\" with commanders such as Agamemnon or Nestor discussing the arraying of troops so as to gain an advantage. Indeed, the Trojan War is won by a notorious example of Greek guile in the Trojan Horse. This is even later referred to by Homer in the \"Odyssey\". The connection, in this case, between guileful tactics of the Greeks in the \"Iliad\" and those of the later Greeks is not a difficult one to find. Spartan commanders, often seen as the pinnacle of Greek military prowess, were known for their tactical trickery, and, for them, this was a feat to be desired in a commander. Indeed, this type of leadership was the standard advice of Greek tactical writers.\n\nUltimately, while Homeric (or epic) fighting is certainly not completely replicated in later Greek warfare, many of its ideals, tactics, and instruction are.\n\nHans van Wees argues that the period that the descriptions of warfare relate can be pinned down fairly specifically—to the first half of the 7th century BC.\n\nThe \"Iliad\" was a standard work of great importance already in Classical Greece and remained so throughout the Hellenistic and Byzantine periods. Subjects from the Trojan War were a favourite among ancient Greek dramatists. Aeschylus' trilogy, the \"Oresteia\", comprising \"Agamemnon\", \"The Libation Bearers\" and \"The Eumenides\", follows the story of Agamemnon after his return from the war. Homer also came to be of great influence in European culture with the resurgence of interest in Greek antiquity during the Renaissance, and it remains the first and most influential work of the Western canon. In its full form the text made its return to Italy and Western Europe beginning in the 15th century, primarily through translations into Latin and the vernacular languages. \n\nPrior to this reintroduction, however, a shortened Latin version of the poem, known as the \"Ilias Latina\", was very widely studied and read as a basic school text. The West tended to view Homer as unreliable as they believed they possessed much more down to earth and realistic eyewitness accounts of the Trojan War written by Dares and Dictys Cretensis, who were supposedly present at the events. These late antique forged accounts formed the basis of several eminently popular medieval chivalric romances, most notably those of Benoît de Sainte-Maure and Guido delle Colonne. These in turn spawned many others in various European languages, such as the first printed English book, the 1473 \"Recuyell of the Historyes of Troye\". Other accounts read in the Middle Ages were antique Latin retellings such as the \"Excidium Troiae\" and works in the vernaculars such as the Icelandic Troy Saga. Even without Homer, the Trojan War story had remained central to Western European medieval literary culture and its sense of identity. Most nations and several royal houses traced their origins to heroes at the Trojan War. Britain was supposedly settled by the Trojan Brutus, for instance.\n\nWilliam Shakespeare used the plot of the \"Iliad\" as source material for his play \"Troilus and Cressida\", but focused on a medieval legend, the love story of Troilus, son of King Priam of Troy, and Cressida, daughter of the Trojan soothsayer Calchas. The play, often considered to be a comedy, reverses traditional views on events of the Trojan War and depicts Achilles as a coward, Ajax as a dull, unthinking mercenary, etc.\n\nWilliam Theed the elder made an impressive bronze statue of Thetis as she brought Achilles his new armor forged by Hephaesthus. It has been on display in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City since 2013.\n\nRobert Browning's poem \"Development\" discusses his childhood introduction to the matter of the \"Iliad\" and his delight in the epic, as well as contemporary debates about its authorship.\n\n\n\nGeorge Chapman published his translation of the \"Iliad\", in installments, beginning in 1598, published in \"fourteeners\", a long-line ballad metre that \"has room for all of Homer's figures of speech and plenty of new ones, as well as explanations in parentheses. At its best, as in Achilles' rejection of the embassy in \"Iliad\" Nine; it has great rhetorical power\". It quickly established itself as a classic in English poetry. In the preface to his own translation, Pope praises \"the daring fiery spirit\" of Chapman's rendering, which is \"something like what one might imagine Homer, himself, would have writ before he arrived at years of discretion\".\n\nJohn Keats praised Chapman in the sonnet \"On First Looking into Chapman's Homer\" (1816). John Ogilby's mid-seventeenth-century translation is among the early annotated editions; Alexander Pope's 1715 translation, in heroic couplet, is \"The classic translation that was built on all the preceding versions\", and, like Chapman's, it is a major poetic work in its own right. William Cowper's Miltonic, blank verse 1791 edition is highly regarded for its greater fidelity to the Greek than either the Chapman or the Pope versions: \"I have omitted nothing; I have invented nothing\", Cowper says in prefacing his translation.\n\nIn the lectures \"On Translating Homer\" (1861), Matthew Arnold addresses the matters of translation and interpretation in rendering the \"Iliad\" to English; commenting upon the versions contemporarily available in 1861, he identifies the four \"essential\" poetic qualities of Homer to which the translator must do justice:\n[i] that he is eminently rapid; [ii] that he is eminently plain and direct, both in the evolution of his thought and in the expression of it, that is, both in his syntax and in his words; [iii] that he is eminently plain and direct in the substance of his thought, that is, in his matter and ideas; and, finally, [iv] that he is eminently noble.\nAfter a discussion of the metres employed by previous translators, Arnold argues for a poetical dialect hexameter translation of the \"Iliad\", like the original. \"Laborious as this meter was, there were at least half a dozen attempts to translate the entire \"Iliad\" or \"Odyssey\" in hexameters; the last in 1945. Perhaps the most fluent of them was by J. Henry Dart [1862] in response to Arnold\". In 1870, the American poet William Cullen Bryant published a blank verse version, that Van Wyck Brooks describes as \"simple, faithful\".\n\nAn 1898 translation by Samuel Butler was published by Longmans. Butler had read Classics at Cambridge University, graduating during 1859.\n\nSince 1950, there have been several English translations. Richmond Lattimore's version (1951) is \"a free six-beat\" line-for-line rendering that explicitly eschews \"poetical dialect\" for \"the plain English of today\". It is literal, unlike older verse renderings. Robert Fitzgerald's version (Oxford World's Classics, 1974) strives to situate the \"Iliad\" in the musical forms of English poetry. His forceful version is freer, with shorter lines that increase the sense of swiftness and energy. Robert Fagles (Penguin Classics, 1990) and Stanley Lombardo (1997) are bolder than Lattimore in adding dramatic significance to Homer's conventional and formulaic language. Rodney Merrill's translation (University of Michigan Press, 2007) not only renders the work in English verse like the dactylic hexameter of the original, but also conveys the oral-formulaic nature of the epic song, to which that musical meter gives full value. Barry B. Powell's translation (Oxford University Press, 2014) renders the Homeric Greek with a simplicity and dignity reminiscent of the original. Caroline Alexander published the first full-length English translation by a woman in 2016.\n\nThere are more than 2000 manuscripts of Homer. Some of the most notable manuscripts include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2402277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2402277", "title": "Jacob's Pillow Dance", "text": "Jacob's Pillow Dance\n\nJacob's Pillow is a dance center, school and performance space located in Becket, Massachusetts, in the Berkshires. The organization is known for the oldest internationally acclaimed Summer dance festival in the United States. The facility also includes a professional school and extensive archives as well as year-round community programs. The facility itself was listed as a National Historic Landmark District in 2003.\n\nThe Jacob's Pillow mission is to support dance creation, presentation, education, and preservation; and to engage and deepen public appreciation and support for dance.\n\nThe site of Jacob's Pillow in Becket, Massachusetts was originally settled in 1790 by the Carter family. Because of the zigzagging road leading to the hilltop property, it became known as \"Jacob's Ladder\", and a pillow-shaped rock on the property prompted the farm to acquire the name \"Jacob's Pillow\".\n\nThe farm was purchased in 1931 by modern dance pioneer Ted Shawn as a dance retreat. Shawn and his wife, Ruth St. Denis, led the highly regarded Denishawn Company, which had popularized dance forms rooted in theater and cultural traditions outside European ballet. They were influential in training a host of dance pioneers, including Martha Graham, Charles Weidman, Doris Humphrey, and Jack Cole.\nShawn's objective was to establish a dance organization for American men. The early corps of his all-male company built many of the structures on the Jacob's Pillow campus. This effort came to an end in 1940 with the advent of the Second World War; Shawn's company disbanded and most of its members joined the military.\n\nSignificant debt forced Shawn to consider sale of the property. In 1940 he leased the property to dance teacher Mary Washington Ball, but her summer festival was also financially unsuccessful. British ballet stars Alicia Markova and Anton Dolin learned of Shawn's financial difficulties, and decided to acquire the property. With financial backing and fundraising support from millionaire Reginald Wright, $50,000 was raised to purchase the property and construct a theater building. The summer dance festival was revived, and Shawn was retained as its director until his death in 1972.\n\nIn 2003, the Jacob's Pillow property was declared a National Historic Landmark District by the federal government as \"an exceptional cultural venue that holds value for all Americans.\" It is the only dance entity in the U.S. to receive this honor. In March 2011, Jacob's Pillow was named a recipient of the 2010 National Medal of Arts, a national award of distinction.\n\nThe Pillow presents international dance in many forms, styles, and traditions, and approximately 200 free events each season, including performances, lectures, tours, films, exhibits, and talks with artists from all over the world, culminating in approximately 80,000 visitors annually.\n\nPillow founder Ted Shawn was instrumental in beginning the careers of Martha Graham and Jack Cole, and the Pillow has continued this mentoring role in the careers of artists such as Alvin Ailey, José Limón, and Mark Morris. Companies such as Dance Theatre of Harlem, the Parsons Dance Company, and Trey McIntyre Project made their debuts at the Pillow, and international groups such as The Royal Danish Ballet, Nederlands Dans Theatre, Black Grace and Hofesh Shechter Company have made their U.S. debuts here. World premieres have been commissioned from choreographers such as Merce Cunningham and Paul Taylor, and artists such as Margot Fonteyn and Mikhail Baryshnikov have been showcased in works.\n\nPerformances at Jacob's Pillow take place on three stages. The Ted Shawn Theatre has a capacity of 620 reserved seats. The Doris Duke Studio Theatre, built in 1990 as a flexible, experimental space, has 220 seats. Talks by Pillow Scholars-in-Residence take place before every performance in these two theaters. Additionally, Post-Show Talks happen in the Ted Shawn Theatre on Thursdays and in the Doris Duke Studio Theatre on Fridays, giving audiences an opportunity to engage with artists in moderated Q&A sessions.\n\nThe third stage is Inside/Out, which presents free performances of established and emerging artists from all over the world in an informal, outdoor venue set against a panoramic vista of the Berkshire hills. Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays feature emerging artists, and Saturdays showcase the dancers of The School at Jacob's Pillow. Each performance at Inside/Out concludes with a Q&A session with the artists. Artist featured in Inside/Out include: Pilobolus Dance Theater, Nadine Bommer Dance Company, Reggie \"Regg Roc\" Gray, Michelle Dorrance with Dormeshia Sumbry-Edwards, Dušan Týnek Dance Theatre, Abarukas, Manuel Vignoulle, and Laurie M. Taylor.\n\nAnother facet of Jacob's Pillow's ongoing educational efforts is the PillowTalk series, which covers the art of dance and artists performing each week through intimate panel discussions, interviews, film screenings, and book signings. Exhibits are free and open to the general public, as are The Archives, which offer the opportunity to view videos, read books, access the Pillow's computer catalog, or view The Pillow's permanent collections of programs and photographs. Free historical walking tours are available to the public weekly during the summer.\n\nThe School at Jacob's Pillow's conservatory-style curriculum includes five programs: Ballet, Cultural Traditions, Contemporary Traditions, Jazz/Musical Theater, and Choreographers’ Lab. The dancers’ schedule includes six days each week with four professional-level studio classes each day, coaching sessions, weekly performances for the public, master classes with Festival artists, talks led by Scholars-in-Residence, study assignments in the Pillow's rare and extensive Archives, and attendance at all Festival performances and events.\n\nThe School at Jacob's Pillow is known for its faculty. Faculty of The School at Jacob's Pillow have included Susan Jaffe, Amanda McKerrow, Chet Walker, Nikolaj Hubbe, Anna-Marie Holmes, Milton Myers, Katherine Dunham, Rennie Harris, Matt Mattox, Soledad Barrio, Tim Rushton, Finis Jhung, Martin Santangelo, Mercedes Ellington, Stephanie Saland, Victor Plotnikov, Annie-B Parson, Paul Lazar, Aszure Barton, Helen Pickett, Banu Ogan, Mr. Wiggles, Marjory Smarth, Dana Moore, and Ric Ryder.\n\nAlumni of The School include MacArthur Grant-winner Meredith Monk, choreographer Mia Michaels, former Alvin Ailey Dance Theater and Paul Taylor Dance Company principal Linda Kent, artistic director of the Royal Danish Ballet Nikolaj Hübbe, recent winner of FOX's television show \"So You Think You Can Dance\", Joshua Allen, and Robert Swinston of Merce Cunningham Dance Company.\n\nJacob's Pillow's Community Dance Programs annually reach more than 3,000 Berkshire children, students, educators, special needs groups, continuing education adult learners, and dancers of all ages and levels of experience. The programs take place at the Pillow, in schools and other settings, and are designed to connect a wide range of participants with the intellectual, emotional, inspirational, as well as physical, world of dance.\n\nEach year, Berkshire County students and teachers choreograph dances to explore topics required for mastery in academic classes, including science, math, history, and communication. The \"Jacob's Pillow Curriculum in Motion\" program, places Pillow artists in the classroom to develop and teach curricula that meet state and national arts and academic standards.\n\nThe Pillow partners with community organizations throughout Berkshire County to provide access to dance activities and learning from Festival artists and staff. A year-round partnership with the Railroad Street Youth Project promotes teen leadership and community involvement through the development of choreographic work. During the Festival, the Pillow partners with Berkshire Institute for Lifelong Learning; Elderhostel Programs; and the Boston Symphony Orchestra's Days In The Arts and Shakespeare & Co. Arts for All programs. The Pillow provides these groups with dance classes, guided tours, performance and School observation opportunities, and access to artists and staff.\n\nThe core collections preserved in the archives at Jacob's Pillow were originally assembled by founder Ted Shawn. Materials have been continually added since the 1930s by volunteers from the Pillow Board and staff. In 1991, Jacob's Pillow created the position of Director of Preservation to direct the activities and maintenance of the Archives. The Archives at Jacob's Pillow has approximately 6,000 films and videos from 1894 to present, 45,000 historic dance photos and negatives, 313,000 pages of unique printed materials, 27 trunks of costumes dating from 1915, and 2,000 books. The Archives is one component of the Pillow's Preservation Program, which organizes exhibits exploring various aspects of dance, oversees issues concerning the National Historic Landmark site, and records the ongoing activities of the Festival.\n\nThe Archives is internationally recognized as a major repository of dance materials. Access to the research facility is open to the public year-round by appointment and is available during the summer season from noon until the end of each performance, six days a week. The Archives collection is electronically catalogued, and much of it is accessible through the Pillow's website.\n\nBlake's Barn is an 18th-century structure that was relocated and reconfigured specifically for preservation activity. This facility was donated by stage and screen dancer/actress Marge Champion and is named in honor of her late son. In addition to a central area for exhibits and lectures, the building houses a reading room with video stations providing access to the moving image collection. The lower level contains temperature-controlled storage areas and video production equipment.\n\nJacob's Pillow remains at the forefront of the dance preservation field partly through its active participation in the Dance Heritage Coalition, an alliance of the country's eight major dance collections including the Library of Congress, Harvard Theatre Collection, and the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts. The Coalition is currently chaired by Norton Owen, the Pillow's longtime Director of Preservation.\n\nIn 2008, the Pillow was invited by the Nonprofit Finance Fund, with support from the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, to participate in the five-year Leading for the Future: Innovative Support for Artistic Excellence Initiative. With this funding, the Archives’ resources can be used in ways that add context and deepen understanding about individual artists and dance traditions, and help audiences around the world understand new and evolving forms.\n\nIn 2011, Jacob's Pillow launched Jacob's Pillow Dance Interactive, an online resource of video clips curated from the Archives in Becket. The archive features performances that have taken place at the festival from 1937 to 2010, including footage rarely seen. This user-friendly free resource allows the user to browse dance footage by artist, genre, and era. The director of preservation, Norton Owen, curates the collection. Each entry includes a video clip, an informative paragraph describing the dancer/choreographer, and an artist portrait.\n\n"}
{"id": "6859154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6859154", "title": "Jenny Bradley", "text": "Jenny Bradley\n\nJenny Connor (also Bradley) is a fictional character from the British soap opera \"Coronation Street\", played by Sally Ann Matthews. She made her first appearance on-screen on 6 January 1986. Originally fostered by Rita Fairclough (Barbara Knox), she has been featured in storylines including her troubled relationship with her father and Rita's partner, Alan Bradley (Mark Eden), his death when he is killed in a tram accident after chasing Rita in Blackpool, and a brief underage romance with married man Robert Weston (Philip Bretherton). Their separation in 1991 led to Jenny leaving Weatherfield on 1 March 1991. \n\nShe returns for a short stint on 17 September 1993 when she visits Rita for money, but Rita's rejection of her results in Jenny leaving again on 8 October 1993. Jenny returned for four months from 18 February 2015 after meeting Kevin Webster (Michael Le Vell) through online dating, and they begin a relationship. She is seen to develop an obsession with his young son Jack (Jaxon and Maddox Beswick), which culminates in Jenny abducting him before being found in Hull, where she is arrested by police leading to her departure on 15 June 2015. On 11 August 2015, the official \"Coronation Street\" Twitter page announced that Jenny would be returning on 27 January 2016. Although upon her return she is portrayed as a tragic character, Jenny has somewhat become more comedic as her storylines grow further.\n\nJenny was fostered by Rita Sullivan (Barbara Knox), following the death of her mother, Pat in a road accident. Her father, Alan Bradley (Mark Eden), was traced after being absent for six years and re-entered her life. Although she initially felt bitter towards him, they soon bonded as he settled into No. 7 with Rita.\n\nAged seventeen, Jenny ran off to France with Martin Platt (Sean Wilson) and met a medical student, Patrice Podevin (Franck Dubosc), and fell in love with him. Patrice followed her back to the UK and they got engaged, though Patrice promised Alan that he would wait until he had finished his studies before they got married. However, after he discovered that Jenny had kissed another man at a party, Patrice called off the engagement and returned to France. On the Eve of her eighteenth birthday in 1989, Jenny stops Alan suffocating Rita but continues to stand by her father regardless, although she was torn between her loyalty to him and her love for Rita. Due to his trial plea, he is allowed to walk free but returns and starts stalking Rita, causing her to have a breakdown and losing her memory. Rita moves to Blackpool, but her absence makes many residents think Alan has killed her, and he becomes the object of widespread hatred and suspicion. Alan soon tracks Rita down, but dies after being hit and killed by a tram whilst chasing a distressed Rita across the tracks. Jenny blames Rita for his death and begins to study Biology at Weatherfield Polytechnic the following year. During this time, Rita moves into a flat on the other side of the street and rents the house to Jenny and her friend, Flick Khan (Rita Wolf), also a student at the Polytechnic. Jenny drops out of her course after becoming bored and starts an affair with a married dentist, Robert Weston (Philip Bretherton). When he leaves his wife, she moves in with him but the relationship does not last very long, and in 1993; Robert went back to his wife. Jenny visited Rita and asked her for £30,000 to start a beauty salon but Rita gave her £1,000 and threw her out of her home. Jenny later marries a man named Mr. Midgeley and they had a son named Tom, who drowns in a paddling pool. Jenny left him unattended while she went inside to get her handbag for money to buy him an ice cream from the ice cream van. Tom was four years old when he died.\n\nJenny is revealed to be the woman Kevin Webster (Michael Le Vell) has been talking to on a dating website. Kevin asks her to come to The Rovers Return Inn, but she told him that she wanted to put the past behind her and wondered how Rita would react to seeing her again. Later that month, Rita and Jenny met in The Rovers. Rita was distraught and Jenny stormed out of the pub because of Norris Cole's (Malcolm Hebden) nasty comments. Rita visited Jenny at Kevin's house and warned Jenny not to try her \"little schoolgirl tricks\". Jenny and Kevin slept together and she became obsessed with his son, Jack (Jaxon and Maddox Beswick). Kevin's 20-year-old daughter, Sophie Webster (Brooke Vincent) becomes suspicious of Jenny and tells her girlfriend, Maddie Heath (Amy James-Kelly), and Kevin but they do not believe her. Sophie remains wary, despite Jenny's attempts to ingratiate herself. Maddie realises that Sophie was right when she goes home and finds that Jenny has packed a bag for Jack and is wearing a brunette wig. She guesses that Jenny is planning to run away with Jack and tries to stop her but Jenny pushes her over and vows that Maddie will not be leaving. Jenny mentions that she didn't mean to hurt \"Tom\", and a shaken Maddie manages to escape, only to be killed by an explosion triggered by Tracy Barlow (Kate Ford) setting fire to Carla Connor's (Alison King) flat in Victoria Court.\n\nAfter Sophie and Kevin leave for Maddie's funeral, Jenny seizes the opportunity to abduct Jack as Kevin agreed that Jenny should look after him, leaving the Websters distraught. She takes him to a flat in Hull and throws a birthday party in her dead son's memory. He had died aged four in April 2013 after apparently being left unsupervised in a paddling pool – with Jenny believing that Jack can take his place. When she notices Jack is not participating, she shouts at him and sends him to his room; Jenny is seen on the flat's balcony later with Jack, releasing balloons into the sky. Rita arrives after a tearful Jenny phoned her, asking her to visit. Rita visits, bringing Kevin and Sophie, but Jenny is enraged as she asked her to come alone. Sophie tells Jenny to bring Jack down but Jenny refuses, disturbed by her grief at losing Tom. Kevin tries to reason with her Jenny returns Jack and prepares to jump, feeling she has nothing to live for. As the police arrive, she breaks down in tears and says that she doesn't know who she is any more, before she is arrested and brought down. She apologises to Kevin but he is no mood to listen and she is led away into a police car. The next day, Jenny is sectioned under the Mental Health Act 1983. In January 2016, Jenny contacts Rita through Facebook. Rita visits Jenny, who tells her she has changed and got a new flat. However, when Jenny runs away, Rita sees the state of Jenny's flat and allows her to stay with her; to the annoyance of Sophie and Kevin.\n\nShe later sparks a romance with Johnny Connor (Richard Hawley) and he takes her to Blackpool for her to say goodbye to her father on the anniversary of his death. Kevin and his friend Tim Metcalfe (Joe Duttine) have taken Jack to Blackpool as well. He runs from them and Jenny saves him from being hit by a tram, earning everyone's respect again. A few days later, once she has appeared in the newspaper; Jenny asks Johnny if she can get a job as a machinist to which he agrees. After work, he goes to teach her and Jenny flirts with him. Lead on by this, Johnny tries kissing Jenny but she pulls away. She still continues to flirt with him however, meaning that she could be using him or she's \"playing hard to get\". Johnny later proposes to her. They split up briefly but reconcile when Johnny tells her about his multiple sclerosis. On Jenny's hen night, Rita collapses and is taken to hospital and Jenny is upset when Gemma Winter (Dolly-Rose Campbell) tells her that Rita has been suffering from memory loss. The next day, Jenny and Johnny are unsure whether to go through with the wedding but they decide to get married and go to the venue on motorbikes. After Sally Metcalfe realised that nobody is there to give her away, she decides to do it. Later, Jenny and Johnny say their vows but realise they can't do it without Rita's presence and go to the hospital to get married there.\nJenny and Johnny's new life as newlyweds doesn't go off to a great start when they find the factory empty of furniture and even without the roof intact. Upon learning that Johnny's son Aidan Connor's (Shayne Ward) fiancée Eva Price (Catherine Tyldesley) is responsible as revenge for Aidan's affair with Maria Connor (Samia Longchambon), they ultimately disown Aidan and eventually report Eva to the police. In time, however, Jenny and Johnny forgive Aidan and plan to move to Spain for a new life in the sun. However, a few days before they are due to leave, Aidan commits suicide and the Connor family are left distraught.\n\nMatthews decided to leave the programme in late 1990 and made her last appearance on 1 March 1991, in which Jenny moved in with married dentist Robert Weston. Matthews chose to leave in order to prove herself as an actress: \"I hadn't been to drama school, I am northern and I had been in a soap. People used to say 'she's just a soap actress' and I would think 'no, she's an actress'. I thought I would go and do lots of regional theatre to earn my stripes and gain respect as a result.\"\n\nIn 1993, Matthews accepted an offer to return as Jenny for ten episodes. Matthews hoped that by showcasing an older Jenny she could change casting directors' perceptions of her. Matthews: \"I was still getting offered rebellious teenage roles and I was 23. I thought I would go back so people could see I was older now and it worked.\" Jenny's departure scenes aired in October 1993. Matthews was subsequently asked to return, but declined due to fear of typecasting.\n\nMatthews' feelings towards returning to \"Coronation Street\" changed four years before the next invitation came. Matthews: \"It was only in 2010 when the 50th celebrations started and I was asked to do a couple of things. Normally my initial reaction would be to say no but I thought I'm never going to get away from it and people still recognise me from it. I am very proud I was in it, it's amazing it had reached the 50-year milestone and I should embrace it. So, that is when I started to feel differently about it and when they rang and asked me this time I said yes.\"\n\nOn 4 October 2014, it was reported that Matthews was in talks about returning to the show. It was then announced on 20 October 2014 that Jenny would be making a return to the show in February 2015. Matthews said: \"It was only in 2010—when the 50th celebrations started and I was asked to do this and that—that I thought, ‘I’m never going to get away from it, people still recognise me from it, I’m dead proud I was in it, I should embrace it.\" Speaking about Jenny and Rita being reunited, Matthews said: \"Jenny doesn't see Rita initially. She meets Kevin first and so I didn't share scenes with Barbara (Knox) for a while. However, the scenes I have done with her have just been like picking up from where we left off. There is a lot of unfinished business with them—Rita isn't very happy.\"\n\nWhen asked about the differences between the show now compared to your previous stint, Matthews replied: \"There were immense differences which I am used to because that is how TV is. Comparing my time then and my time now, the main difference is that we don't rehearse anymore. In the old days, we would spend all of Monday afternoon, all of Tuesday and all of Wednesday rehearsing and then we would shoot Thursday and Friday. There were less regulars then and as a group of actors, you were together for two and a half days so even if you didn't share scenes with some people, you still knew everybody very well. Everyone knew each other much better than they do today - there are still some actors I haven't met yet this time round.\"\n\nShortly after the announcement of her return it was announced that Jenny would begin a relationship with Kevin Webster, played by Michael Le Vell. Bosses of the show revealed details of the storyline which would see Kevin makes a connection with a mystery woman online, he decides to meet up with her and is shocked to come face-to-face with Jenny. Jenny has also turned to the online dating site after a nasty divorce and was pleased to find Kevin's face among the profiles, as she reveals that she had a crush on him when they were younger. Kevin and Jenny then strike a relationship after a successful meeting. Speaking about Jenny's dynamic with Kevin, Matthews said: \"She really likes him. She is single and is nervous about online dating. She sees him and he is somebody who is familiar. I think she probably always quite fancied him back in the day and she thinks 'why not?' She definitely is interested in Kevin but whether she is using him to get back in Weatherfield, time will tell. Whether it could be a fling that will develop, time will tell!\". Speaking about the reaction to them as a couple, she went on to say: \"People don't react very well to them at all. We just had some scripts in and there is a brilliant hour-long episode coming up with Sally. I love the way her character has developed into this incredible job and I love what she is doing because it's hilarious. That is going to get Jenny's back up. Sally will obviously be very defensive of Kevin and so will Sophie. People will have heard stories and that is the interesting thing. When Jenny comes back, she meets people that she has never met before and they are nice to her but then somebody will have a word in their ear and attitudes change.\"\n\nOn 19 April 2015, it was reported by \"The Sun\" newspaper that an upcoming plot would see Jenny kidnap Kevin's young son Jack. The kidnapping would be the culmination of a storyline which has seen Jenny become increasingly obsessed with Jack, as she spends time looking after him. Discussing Jenny's kidnapping of Jack plan, Matthews explained: \"I've not played it as premeditated at all. I don't believe that Jenny has planned any of it. You've got to remember that when Jack's childminder was ill a few weeks ago, Jenny was very reluctant to look after Jack. You've got to remember that she really didn't want to get involved. As soon as she did, she tried to break it off with Kevin. Kevin assumed that she was breaking it off because she thought that Rita was uncomfortable with their relationship. It wasn't that - it was just that her past was starting to come into her head and she didn't know what to do with it. That's the beginning of where we're going to go with this storyline. Jenny did have a child who died in the past. We are now going to see the consequences of that with what Jenny is going to do. She's got a deluded idea that she has to run off with Jack in order to keep him safe, so she's going to be very conflicted. She's totally lost it.\" Matthews also admitted that she is nervous about how fans may react when they see Jenny's unstable behaviour escalate. She laughed: \"Sometimes the public assume you are that person. It was bad enough when Jenny slapped Maria, God knows what it's going to be like now! I'll have to start putting Jenny's dark wig on, But there is a genuine reason why Jenny is behaving the way she is. I'm not playing it that she's a 'nutter'. Because of that, when it all finally comes out, I think there could be some understanding.\"\n\nProducer Stuart Blackburn also offered his thoughts on the storyline, praising Matthews for exploring the difficult subject matter with sensitivity. He said: \"I think why the story is working is the way Sally Ann is playing it. I've never considered that character a 'nutter'. She's a terribly damaged woman whose life stopped the day her child died. She's just been unable, however hard she tries, to move away from that.\"\n\nOn 8 February 2016, Richard Hawley, who portrays the character of Johnny Connor, revealed in an interview on \"Good Morning Britain\" that Johnny would embark on a relationship with Jenny. Hawley admitted that he was surprised about the storyline as he thought Johnny would more likely begin a romance with Liz McDonald, portrayed by Beverley Callard. He went on to say \"It's interesting what is going to happen between Johnny and Jenny. He is a sucker for vulnerability and she's getting a hard time at the factory from all the workers at the moment. He has a very vulnerable side too. So in a way, I think they are both good for each other. They both want a fresh start and I think this will mark a new dawn for them.\"\n\nIn March 2016, it was announced that an upcoming storyline would see Jenny return to Blackpool along with Johnny for a holiday together, the last time she was there was when her father Alan Bradley (Mark Eden) was killed by an oncoming tram in 1989. Discussing how Jenny feels about her father's death after all these years, Matthews said: \"It still haunts her because she's back on the street and people are talking about Blackpool and it just makes those feelings a bit stronger.\"\n\nIn July 2018, it was reported by \"The Sun\" that Jenny and Johnny would become the new owners of the \"Rovers Return Inn\". Matthews said: \"Jenny is pretty adaptable. She sulks for two minutes, then runs to the moon with the idea. As soon as Johnny persuades her about The Rovers, she goes for it big style and she starts to make all kinds of plans for it. She wants it to be a cut above everything else.\"\n\nGary Gillatt of \"Inside Soap\" praised Jenny's return in 2015, saying \"We're very taken with Jenny Bradley, who returned to the Street last week all cool and confident, and a bit sexy. Extend her short-term contract right now, Corrie!\"\n"}
{"id": "44848044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44848044", "title": "Keep Indy Indie", "text": "Keep Indy Indie\n\nKeep Indy Indie is the slogan used by the small business community of Indianapolis, Indiana. It is a spinoff of Keep Austin Weird. Keep Indy Indie is also the namesake of a blog about the emerging independent business and art scene in Indianapolis.\n\n"}
{"id": "4632593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4632593", "title": "L'Arlésienne (painting)", "text": "L'Arlésienne (painting)\n\nL'Arlésienne, L'Arlésienne: Madame Ginoux, or Portrait of Madame Ginoux is the title given to a group of six similar paintings by Vincent van Gogh, painted in Arles, November 1888 (or later), and in Saint-Rémy, February 1890. L'Arlésienne is pronounced 'lar lay zyen'; it means literally \"the woman from Arles\".\n\nThe subject, \"Marie Jullian\" (or \"Julien\"), was born in Arles June 8, 1848 and died there August 2, 1911. She married \"Joseph-Michel Ginoux\" in 1866 and together they ran the \"Café de la Gare\", 30 Place Lamartine, where van Gogh lodged from May to mid-September 1888. He had the Yellow House in Arles furnished to settle there.\n\nEvidently until this time, van Gogh's relations to M. and Mme. Ginoux had remained more or less commercial (the café is the subject of \"The Night Café\"), but Gauguin's arrival in Arles altered the situation. His courtship charmed the lady, then about 40 years of age, and in the first few days of November 1888 Madame Ginoux agreed to have a portrait session for Gauguin, and his friend van Gogh. Within an hour, Gauguin produced a charcoal drawing while Vincent produced a full-scale painting, \"knocked off in \"one\" hour\".\n\nVan Gogh's first version, now in the Musée d'Orsay, Paris, is painted on burlap. A complete \"piece\" of this fabric was acquired by Gauguin just after his arrival in Arles, and used by both artists in November and December 1888.\n\nFor the second version, now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, van Gogh again painted on the commercially pre-primed canvas he had previously used, and he replaced the gloves and umbrella with some books.\n\nWhile in the asylum at Saint-Rémy, van Gogh painted another five portraits of Madame Ginoux, based on Gauguin's charcoal drawing of November 1888. Of these, one was intended for Gauguin, one for his brother Theo, one for himself and one for Madame Ginoux. The provenance of the version in the Kröller-Müller Museum is not known in detail, but the painting is known to have been previously owned by Albert Aurier, an early champion of Vincent's paintings. The version intended for Madame Ginoux was lost and has not been recovered. This is the version Vincent was delivering to Madame Ginoux in Arles when he suffered his relapse on February 22, 1890. In an unfinished letter to Gauguin that was never sent, Vincent remarked that working on her portrait cost him another month of illness. Gauguin's version was the one with a pink background, currently in the São Paulo Museum of Art. Gauguin was enthusiastic about the portrait, writing:\n\nI've seen the canvas of Madame Ginoux. Very fine and very curious, I like it better than my drawing. Despite your ailing state you have never worked with so much \"balance\" while conserving the sensation and the interior warmth needed for a \"work of art\", precisely in an era when art is a business regulated in advance by cold calculations.\nIn a letter to his sister Wil, dated 5 June 1890, Vincent set out his philosophy for doing portraits: \"I should like to do portraits which will appear as revelations to people in a hundred years' time. In other words I am not trying to achieve this by photographic likeness but by rendering our impassioned expressions, by using our modern knowledge and appreciation of colour as a means of rendering and exalting character ... The portrait of the Arlésienne has a colourless and matt flesh tone, the eyes are calm and very simple, the clothing is black, the background pink, and she is leaning on a green table with green books. But in the copy that Theo has, the clothing is pink, the background yellowy-white, and the front of the open bodice is muslin in a white that merges into green. Among all these light colours, only the hair, the eyelashes and the eyes form black patches.\"\n\nOn 2 May 2006, the painting with the floral background sold at auction at Christie's, New York, for more than $40million (USD). This was the version that Vincent gave to Theo.\n\nGauguin produced a charcoal sketch at the original sitting of Madame Ginoux in November 1888, and later produced a canvas.\n\nMembers of the Roulin Family are depicted in this portrait, and the woman in Arlésienne costume has the profile of Madame Ginoux.\nIn the book \"Lolita\", by Vladimir Nabokov, the narrator calls \"L'Arlésienne\" \"that banal darling of the arty middle class\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1086507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1086507", "title": "Last Gasp", "text": "Last Gasp\n\nLast Gasp is a San Francisco-based book publisher with a lowbrow art and counterculture focus. Owned and operated by Ron Turner, for most of its existence Last Gasp was a publisher, distributor, and wholesaler of underground comix and books of all types.\n\nLast Gasp was established in 1970. Although the company came onto the scene a bit later than some of the other underground publishers, Last Gasp continued publishing comix far longer most of its competitors. In addition to publishing notable original titles like \"Slow Death\", \"Wimmen's Comix\", \"Binky Brown Meets the Holy Virgin Mary\", and \"Weirdo\", it also picked up the publishing reins of important titles — such as \"Zap Comix\" and \"Young Lust\" — from rivals that had gone out of business.\n\nLast Gasp no longer publishes \"floppy\" comics; the company publishes art and photography books, graphic novels, fiction, and poetry, producing 10-15 new titles per year.\n\nLast Gasp Eco Funnies was founded in Berkeley, California, in 1970 by San Francisco State University graduate student Ronald E. Turner, with the help of Gary Arlington, to publish the ecologically-themed comics title \"Slow Death Funnies\" (in conjunction with the first Earth Day). Last Gasp followed \"Slow Death Funnies\" with the all-female anthology \"It Ain't Me, Babe\", spearheaded by Trina Robbins.\n\nLast Gasp incorporated on September 11, 1971. In the time period 1971–1973, Last Gasp published \"Air Pirates Funnies\" #1–2 and a number of other Air Pirates-related titles, including \"The Tortoise and the Hare\", \"Dopin' Dan\" #1–3, and \"Merton of the Movement\". (Turner insists that he only served as an advisor to the Air Pirates collective, despite them crediting his company as \"publisher.\") Considered to be an \"enabler\" of the Air Pirates infamous Walt Disney parodies, Turner's name was added to Disney's lawsuit against the collective. Turner quickly settled with Disney, but Air Pirates Dan O'Neill, Bobby London, and Ted Richards continued fighting, in a case that dragged on for years.\n\nThe company's success with \"Slow Death\" and \"It Ain't Me, Babe\" enabled Last Gasp to expand into distribution, in addition to publishing. The company soon became a major part of the underground comix movement. Sociopolitical themes were explored in Last Gasp series such as Guy Colwell's \"Inner City Romance\" (1972–1979), which portrayed gritty urban tales; \"Armageddon\" (1973), which focused on anarcho-capitalism; and \"Anarchy Comics\" (1978), which focused on left-wing politics. In addition to publishing \"Wimmen's Comix\" for much of its run, Last Gasp published a number of other comix with feminist themes, including \"It Ain't Me, Babe\", \"Tits & Clits Comix\", \"Twisted Sisters\" #1, and \"Good Girls\".\n\nIn 1972, Last Gasp published Justin Green's seminal autobiographical comic \"Binky Brown Meets the Holy Virgin Mary\".\n\nBeginning in 1972, Last Gasp began publishing ongoing titles moving over from other companies; beginning with \"Young Lust\", and then Rand Holmes' \"Harold Hedd\". In 1977, the company picked up Joyce Farmer and Lyn Chevely's \"Tits & Clits Comix\", publishing that series until 1987. Last Gasp published the final three issues of \"San Francisco Comic Book\" in 1980–1983, and the latter half of \"Zap Comix\"' run from 1982–2005.\n\nLast Gasp also published \"Weirdo\" from 1981–1993, and \"Cherry Poptart\" from 1982–1992.\n\nIn the early 1980s Last Gasp published some of the first books about the West Coast punk rock scene, including a number of titles by Peter Belsito.\n\nLast Gasp moved its headquarters from Berkeley to San Francisco in c. 1975. Starting in 1975, Ron Turner began hosting the annual \"Burritos, Beer & Cheer\" holiday party at the Last Gasp offices, which was also a fundraiser for the Martin de Porres House of Hospitality, a free soup kitchen located in San Francisco. Last Gasp hosted \"Burritos, Beer & Cheer\" for more than 30 years.\n\nIn the period 2004-2010, Last Gasp published English-language compilations of popular manga titles, including Fumiyo Kouno's \"Town of Evening Calm, Country of Cherry Blossoms\"; Junko Mizuno's \"Pure Trance\"; and Keiji Nakazawa's \"Barefoot Gen\".\n\nIn early December 2016, Last Gasp announced it was ending its distribution business to focus solely on book publishing. (As one of the last independent distributors, they handled comics from more than 100 small comics publishers.) As a consequence, the company planned to lay off the bulk of its dozen employees by February 2017.\n\nNotable artists published by Last Gasp include Tim Biskup, Robert Crumb, Richard Corben, Ron English, Camille Rose Garcia, Justin Green, Bill Griffith, John Howard, Greg Irons, Shawna Kenney, Spain Rodriguez, Mark Ryden, Dori Seda, Larry Welz, Robert Williams, and S. Clay Wilson.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56849025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56849025", "title": "Left-right asymmetry (biology)", "text": "Left-right asymmetry (biology)\n\nLeft-right asymmetry (LR asymmetry) refers to differences in structure (symmetry breaking) across the mediolateral (left and right) plane in animals. This plane is defined with respect to the anteroposterior and dorsoventral axes and is perpendicular to both. Because the left-right plane is not strictly an axis (as it is not established through a morphogen gradient), to create asymmetry, the left and right sides need to be patterned separately.\n\nLR asymmetry is pervasive throughout metazoans and present throughout every major lineage. Notable examples include the large and small claws of the fiddler crab, the left offset of the vertebrate heart, asymmetrical gut coiling in \"Drosophila melanogaster,\" and dextral (clockwise) and sinistral (counterclockwise) coiling of gastropods. This asymmetry can be restricted to a specific organ or feature, as in the crab claws, or be expressed throughout the entire body as in snails.\n\nComponents of the Nodal signaling pathway have been implicated in left-right determination in a diverse set of taxa. While the mechanisms to set up the left-right sides appear to differ markedly among groups of organisms, \"Nodal\" is consistently deployed in most of the lineages that have been examined (except for ecdysozoans). In established model organisms such as mouse, chick, \"D. melanogaster,\" and \"Xenopus,\" ongoing research has begun to focus on cellular level symmetry-breaking mechanisms (e.g. cytoskeletal chirality, ciliary flow) that may lead to differential expression of molecules such as Nodal.\n\n\"Nodal\" was first described in the chick embryo, where genes \"activin receptor IIa, Sonic hedgehog (Shh),\" and \"chick nodal-related 1 (cNR-1)\" were found to be asymmetrically expressed across Hensen’s node with \"cnR-1\" expressed on the left side. Misexpressing \"Shh\" or \"activin receptor IIa\" on the right side randomized heart asymmetry in the chick. This asymmetrical gene expression appears to be triggered by cell movements in the node.\n\nIn mouse, the left side is distinguished from the right through Nodal flow. Originally described from \"inversus viscerum (iv)\" and \"inversion of embryonic turning (inv)\" mouse mutants, which are characterized by a randomization of left-right phenotypes, Nodal flow refers to the movement of nodal cilia to create a leftward flow of extraembryonic fluid. Carried in this leftward movement is Nodal, a signaling peptide from the TGF-β family necessary to pattern left-right determination. In the lateral plate mesoderm, Nodal then activates a positive feedback loop promoting its expression and its downstream effector \"Pitx2.\" To prevent expansion to the rightward portion of the embryo, Nodal activates \"Lefty1\" and \"Lefty2,\" which repress the Nodal signaling pathway by competing with Nodal binding sites.\n\nBecause Nodal flow through ciliary movement is not present in all vertebrates (e.g. the chick), asymmetric gene expression must be established in another way. One such idea posits that ion channels and pumps (H+/K+ ATPase) generate differences in voltage and pH across the mediolateral plane, thus providing gradients to orient signaling molecules.\n\nRecently, work has shown that the Nodal-Pitx2 pathway is present and functional in the non-vertebrate deuterostomes (tunicates, sea urchins). In tunicate (ascidian) \"Ciona intestinalis\" and \"Halocynthia roretzi\", \"Nodal\" is expressed on the left side of the developing embryo and leads to downstream expression of \"Pitx2.\" At earlier stages, similar H+/K+ ATPase ion channels are reported to be necessary for correct left-right patterning. While the role of cilia here is still unclear, one study observes that large-scale embryonic movements are required for left-right determination in \"H. roretzi,\" and that this movement is possibly achieved through ciliary movements.\n\nIn the sea urchin, \"Nodal\" is expressed on the right side of the embryo, in contrast to the tunicate and vertebrate condition on the left side. Because protostomes appear to also express \"Nodal\" on their right side instead of the left (discussed below), some have suggested that this lends further evidence for the dorsoventral inversion hypothesis.\n\nWhile \"D. melanogaster\" and nematode \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" do show left-right asymmetry, the Nodal signaling pathway itself is absent in Ecdysozoa. Instead, cytoskeletal regulators such as Myo31DF, a type ID unconventional myosin, have been found to control left-right asymmetry in organ systems such as genitalia.\n\nUnlike in Ecdysozoa, the Nodal-Pitx2 pathways have been identified in many lineages within the Lophotrochozoans. When found in brachiopods and molluscs, these genes are asymmetrically expressed on the right. Platyhelminthes, annelids, and nermeteans lack a Nodal orthologue and instead only express Pitx2, which was expressed in association to the nervous system.\n\nWhole body inversion is observed as chiral (dextral, sinistral) coiling in gastropods. While dextral coiling is the most common as it appears in 90-99% of living species, sinistral species still have arisen many times.\n\nGastropods undergo spiral cleavage, a feature commonly seen in lophotrochozoans. As the embryo divides, quartets of cells are oriented at angles to each other. In the snail \"Lymnaea stagnalis\", the direction of rotation during the first cell division signals whether the adult will show dextral or sinistral coiling, At the third cleavage (8-cell stage), spindles in dextral snails are inclined clockwise whereas they are counterclockwise in sinistral snails. Furthermore, injecting \"L. peregra\" sinistral eggs with the cytoplasm of dextral eggs before the second polar body formation will reverse the polarity of the sinistral embryos. These data show that chirality is heritable and maternally deposited in \"Lymnaea\".\n\nSeveral studies have begun to investigate the molecular basis of this inheritance. \"Nodal\" and \"Pitx2\" are expressed on different sides of the \"L. stagnalis\" embryo depending on its chirality – right for dextral, left for sinistral. Downstream of \"Nodal, decapentaplegic (dpp),\" shows the same expression pattern. In limpets (gastropods without coiled shells) \"dpp\" is expressed symmetrically in \"Patella vulgata\" and \"Nipponacmea fuscoviridis\". Additionally, in \"N. fuscoviridis\", \"dpp\" has been shown to drive cell proliferation\n\nUpstream of Nodal, \"Lsdia1/2\" have been implicated in controlling \"L. stagnalis\" chirality. Davison et al. (2016) mapped the “chirality locus” to a 0.4 Mb region and determined that \"Lsdia2\" is the likely candidate for determining dextral or sinistral coiling. This is a diaphanous-related formin gene involved in cytoskeleton formation. Dextral embryos treated with drugs that inhibited formin activity phenocopied the sinistral condition. Concurrent work from Kuroda et al. (2016) identified the same \"Lsdia2\" gene (called \"Lsdia1\" in their study) but failed to reproduce the formin inhibition results in the Davison et al. study. Additionally, Kuroda et al. (2016) did not find asymmetrically expressed \"Lsdia2\" as was seen in the Davison et al. (2016) study.\n"}
{"id": "58602430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58602430", "title": "Maksudul Ahsan", "text": "Maksudul Ahsan\n\nMaksudul Ahsan (born February 3, 1966) is a Bangladeshi artist and poet.\n\nAhsan was born in Chandpur. In 1987, he graduated from the Institute of Fine Arts of Dhaka University. In 1989 he obtained a master's degree there. In 1992, he received a diploma from the Academy of Planning and Development.\n\nIn 1989 he became a teacher of the College of Art in Khulna. In 1991 he became artistic editor of the weekly \"Shamoy Songglap\" in Dhaka. From 1994-2002, he lived and worked in Delhi (India). In 2008-2009, he was the editor of the weekly \"Shubarno Shodesh\". In 2011 he became the Chief Executive Director of the Gallery of Modern Art \"Basilo\" (Dhaka).\n\nHe works with watercolor and oil. He is an adherent of traditions in art and an impulsive improviser. His pictures are characterized by a powerful pastosic painting technique smearing bright contrasting colors, with converging and diverging lines. He produces moderately realistic as well as abstract images. He illustrates books. He published two collections of poems, \"Bashwashi Korotol\" and \"Shoundarjyer Staba\", in 1989.\n\nThe first solo exhibition of the artist took place in the gallery \"La Gallery\" in Dhaka in 1994. Since then he has held 12 solo exhibitions in Bangladesh, India and Canada, and participated in more than 40 collective exhibitions in his homeland and abroad (India, Canada, Malaysia). In 2016, the National Gallery of Bangladesh held a retrospective, dedicated to the 25th anniversary of his creative activity. He organized eight art workshops in Dhaka, Delhi and Calcutta with the participation of artists from the countries of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC).\n\nThe artist's paintings are kept in the National Museum of Bangladesh, in the National Picture Gallery of Bangladesh, in the Shilpakala Academy (Dhaka), in the Sheraton and Pan Pacific Sonargaon hotels, the Ravi Jain Memorial Foundation in Delhi, the Dhohomi Mal and \"Kunika\" galleries (Delhi), as well as in private collections in Australia, England, Bangladesh, Germany, India, Canada, China, the Netherlands, Pakistan, Switzerland and the US.\n\nHe is one of the founders of the society \"Jania Abritti Charcha Kendra\" (1987), Executive Director of the South Asian Society of Art and Culture (since 2003), Secretary General of the Arts and Cultural Society \"Bandhan\" (since 2004).\n"}
{"id": "1615474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1615474", "title": "Maleperduis", "text": "Maleperduis\n\nMaleperduis (; ; ; ; ), also spelled Malperdy, is Reynard the Fox's principal hideaway in the medieval tales of this figure of legend. The name of the castle is most likely an old misspelling of the French word \"Millepertuis\", meaning \"St. John's Wort\", which was considered a sacred plant during the days the Reynard cycle was first written.\n\nLabyrinthine Maleperduys is full of holes, crooked and long, with multiple exits, which Reynard can open and shut to elude his enemies. Full of secret chambers and passageways, in William Caxton's \"The Historie of Reynart the Foxe\" (1485) the castle of Maleperduys is described as the \"best and the fastest burgh that [Reynard] had. There lay he in when he had need, and was in any dread or fear.\" (Chapter VII, \"How Bruin the Bear was sped of Reynard the Fox\"). Over time, the word came to mean a place of refuge.\n\nIt is also the title of a horror novel, written in 1943 by the Belgian author, Jean Ray. In 1972, it was made into a film, \"Malpertuis\", directed by Harry Kümel and starring Orson Welles. \n"}
{"id": "37986786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37986786", "title": "Marx's Theory of Ideology", "text": "Marx's Theory of Ideology\n\nMarx's Theory of Ideology is a 1982 book about Karl Marx by the political theorist Bhikhu Parekh. The work was inspired by Parekh's experience of racial discrimination in British society.\n\n\"Marx's Theory of Ideology\" was reviewed by Nicholas Abercrombih in \"Sociology\". The political theorist Terrell Carver, writing in an appendix to the 1995 edition of \"\", called the book a classic exposition of the Marxist theory of ideology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15243227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15243227", "title": "Michael Nicoll Yahgulanaas", "text": "Michael Nicoll Yahgulanaas\n\nMichael Nicoll Yahgulanaas is an award-winning visual contemporary artist, author and speaker. His work has been seen in public spaces, museums, galleries and private collections across globe. Institutional collections include the British Museum, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Seattle Art Museum and Vancouver Art Gallery. A lot of Michael's art is inspired by the work he does with The Christensen Fund. The Christensen Fund is a private foundation that buttresses the efforts of people and institutions inspired by a bio and culturally diverse world infused with artistic expression and lives and environments that are beautiful, bountiful and resilient.\n\nMichael Nicoll Yahgulanaas was born in 1954 in Masset, Haida Gwaii. He is a descendant of the influential artists, Isabella Edenshaw, Charles Edenshaw. Yahgulanaas was a prolific young artist who soon covered the walls and ceilings of his bedroom with drawings. When those spaces were filled he found the fingernails of schoolmates to be an interesting platte for intricate multicoloured paintings. His artistic passion was curtailed somewhat in the decades that he in elected and volunteer public work including the creation of an multicultural community endowment, the Gwaii Trust.\n\nYahgulanaas's work has been seen in public spaces, museums, galleries, and private collections across North America, Europe, Asia, Australia, and the Middle East. His visual practice encompasses a variety of different art forms including: large-scale public art projects, mixed media sculptures and canvases, re-purposed automobile parts, acrylics, watercolours, ink drawings, and illustrated publications. Exploring themes of identity, environmentalism, and the human condition he uses art to communicate a world view that while particular to Haida Gwaii, his ancestral North Pacific archipelago, is also relevant to a contemporary and internationally engaged audience.\n\nThe original five–meter long mural that was published in 2009 as \"RED: A Haida manga\" is on a multi-year exhibit tour. Another book, \"Hachidori\" has sold over 100,000 copies in Japan with a single-day record sale of 20,000 copies. \"Flight of the Hummingbird\", first published in North America and now available in five languages, is also a bestseller and includes essays contributed by the Dalai Lama and Nobel Peace prize winner Wangari Maathai. \"Declaration of Interdependence\" by Dr David Suzuki was illustrated by Yahgulanaas.\n\nYahgulanaas's works in metal include commissions from the British Museum (2010), The City of Vancouver (2011) and the 2010 Winter Olympics organizing committee. In 2015, his sculpture of a sei whale was unveiled at the Vancouver International Airport. In January 2016, his sculpture Yelthadaas from the Coppers From the Hood series joined the permanent collection at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.. This work was put up on display in 2017. The piece hangs in Gallery 399, between the Modern and Contemporary Art wing and the Rockefeller Wing, where contemporary art borders Indigenous art.\n\nSince 2009, Yahgulanaas has been a member of the board of the Museum of Anthropology at UBC.\n\nAlthough Yahgulanaas trained under master carvers, his brief exposure to Chinese brush techniques with Cai Ben Kwan encouraged a departure from the typical expressions of the Haida art form and the development of a new genre of narrative art called \"Haida manga.\"\n\nHaida Manga blends North Pacific Indigenous iconographies and framelines with the graphic dynamism of Asian manga. Haida Manga is committed to hybridity as a positive force that opens a third space for critical engagement. It offers an empowering and playful way of viewing and engaging with social issues as it seeks participation, dialogue, reflection, and action.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37047358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37047358", "title": "Odeon Theatre, Christchurch", "text": "Odeon Theatre, Christchurch\n\nThe Odeon Theatre in Christchurch was the oldest masonry theatre in New Zealand, and one of only three remaining purpose-built 19th-century theatres in the country. The building has had different names over the years, and was put to many different uses. It was damaged beyond repair in the 22 February 2011 Christchurch earthquake and partially demolished in September 2012. The theatre was recognised as a Category I heritage building by the New Zealand Historic Places Trust, with registration number 3140. One of its most notable aspects was its use as a public meeting venue of Kate Sheppard during her women's suffrage campaign.\n\nA syndicate of citizens formed the Public Hall Company Ltd and through this commissioned the building. The theatre, located in 214 Tuam Street, was built in 1883 to a design by Thomas Stoddart Lambert (1840–1915). It had a capacity of 2,200 people, 600 of whom fitted into the gallery. The stage was initially wide and deep. The building was opened on 20 July 1883, with the Mayor of Christchurch, George Ruddenklau, presiding.\nThe building's original name was Tuam Street Hall or Tuam Street Theatre. The building had a variety of rather diverse uses: public meeting place, entertainment, exhibitions, roller skate rink, and other activities. In 1893, it was used by Kate Sheppard for women's suffrage. After the 1893 Electoral Act was passed on 19 September 1893, which meant that New Zealand women were the first in the world to be granted the right to vote, an enrolment meeting was held by Sheppard at Tuam Street Hall on 26 September in preparation for the 1893 election in late November. Despite rather unfavourable weather, 600 women were enrolled that day.\n\nIn 1894, the name changed to Opera House. Vaudeville was the main form of entertainment around the turn of the century, and John Fuller's son Benjamin started their theatre company's involvement with the building in 1903.\n\nSidney Luttrell was commissioned to remodel the building's interior, and the modified space opened on 26 December 1927, providing seating for 1,300 people. The dimensions of the stage were changed to wide, deep, and high, and there were then 19 dressing rooms. With the introduction of film in 1930, the name was once again changed, this time to St James. The stage remained, though, and the building was sometimes used for other purposes, for example live entertainment. St James closed for a period during the Great Depression. Notable performers during the 1940s include the Trapp Family Singers, Stanley Holloway, Johnny Devlin, Laurence Olivier, and Olivier's second wife Vivien Leigh.\nOwnership changed in 1960 to Kerridge-Odeon Ltd, and the building was renamed Odeon and reopened on 27 September 1960. Extensive changes were undertaken, including the removal of the parapet, reduction of seating down to 720, updating of the cinema equipment, and introduction of a coffee lounge. Through competition with television, patronage declined and the theatre eventually closed. The building was purchased in 1983 by the Sydenham Assembly of God, who used it for religious gatherings from 1985.\n\nThe building was bought in 2003 by a group of businessmen, who in May 2004 applied for demolition consent. In response, the Odeon Theatre Trust was formed by residents concerned for the preservation of the building. Ownership changed again in December 2006, when Property Ventures Ltd, the development company of David Henderson, purchased it. Property Ventures had its office in a building diagonally opposite the Odeon Theatre at 179 Tuam Street. When Henderson's companies got into financial difficulties, Christchurch City Council controversially bought five of his inner city land holdings in August 2008, but not the Odeon Theatre. Henderson was placed in bankruptcy in November 2010.\nDuring the years of the Sydenham Assembly of God ownership, a large yellow illuminated cross was displayed on the theatre's frontage (the bracket still visible in photos post-2008). Henderson used the cross in the SOL Square development (located on the north side of the Property Ventures head office) and styled one of the bars as the Yellow Cross, prominently displaying the cross on the roof apex.\n\nIn 2009, Christchurch actor and director Mark Hadlow campaigned for the Odeon Theatre to be turned into an arts complex for an estimated NZ$60m.\n\nOn 26 November 1981, the building was registered by the New Zealand Historic Places Trust as a Category I historic place, with the registration number 3140. The building is recognised as the once largest public meeting venue in Christchurch, the oldest remaining theatre in Christchurch, and the then country's oldest masonry theatre. Of significance is the use of the building by Kate Sheppard. Another aspect is the building's association with two important Christchurch designers, Lambert and S. Luttrell.\n\nThe building was severely damaged in the February 2011 Christchurch earthquake. Demolition was ordered by the Canterbury Earthquake Recovery Authority in January 2012. In September of that year, the rear of the building was demolished. The front of the building is protected by a stack of shipping containers placed in Tuam Street; it is hoped to retain at least the façade of the building, but its future is uncertain; this is still the case as of September 2017.\n"}
{"id": "89116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89116", "title": "Outsider music", "text": "Outsider music\n\nOutsider music (from \"outsider art\") is music created by self-taught or naïve musicians. The term is usually applied to those who exist outside of the music establishment or exhibit childlike qualities, and especially those who suffer from intellectual disabilities or mental illnesses. Its usage was popularized in the 1990s by journalist and WFMU DJ Irwin Chusid.\n\nOutsider musicians tend to overlap with \"lo-fi\" artists since their work is rarely captured in professional recording studios. Some of the best-known examples are Daniel Johnston, Wesley Willis, and Jandek, who each had documentary films produced about them in the mid 2000s.\n\nThe term \"outsider music\" is traced to the definitions of \"outsider art\" and \"naïve art\". \"Outsider art\" is rooted in the 1920s French concept of \"L'Art Brute\" (\"raw art\"). In 1972, academic Roger Cardinal introduced \"outsider art\" as the American counterpart of \"L'Art Brut\", which originally referred to work created exclusively by children or the mentally ill. The word \"outsider\" began to be applied to music cultures as early as 1959, with respect to jazz, and to rock as early as 1979, In the 1970s, \"outsider music\" was also a \"favorite epithet\" in music criticism in Europe. By the 1980s and 1990s, \"outsider\" was common in the cultural lexicon and was synonymous with \"self-taught\", \"untrained\", and \"primitive\".\n\nAlthough outsider music has existed since before written history, it was not until the advent of sound reproduction and music exchange networks that such a genre was recognized. Music journalist Irwin Chusid is credited with adapting \"outsider art\" for music in a 1996 article for the Tower Records publication \"Pulse!\". As a DJ on the New Jersey radio station WFMU in the 1980s, he had been an influential figure in independent music scenes. In 2000, he authored a book titled \"Songs in the Key of Z: The Curious Universe of Outsider Music\", which attempted to introduce and market outsider music as a genre. He summarized the concept thusly:\n\nAs was common with journalists who championed musical primitivism in the 1980s, Chusid considered outsiders more \"authentic\" than artists whose music is \"exploited through conventional music channels\" and \"revised, remodeled, and re-coifed; touched-up and tweaked; Photoshopped and focus-grouped\" by the time it reaches the listener, to the point that it is \"Music by Committee\". On the other hand, outsider artists have much \"greater individual control over the final creative contour\", either because of a low budget or because of their \"inability or unwillingness to cooperate with or trust anyone but themselves.\"\n\nOutsider music does not generally include avant-garde music, exotic non-Western music, songs recorded solely for their novelty value, or anything self-consciously camp or kitsch. Works are usually sourced from home recordings or independent recording studios \"with no quality control\". In \"Songs in the Key of Z\", Chusid explicitly avoided discussing \"unpopular\", \"uncommercial\", or \"underground\" artists, and disqualified \"just about anyone who could keep an orchestra or band together.\" He did include a few acts in the definition that broke through to mainstream fame as novelty acts; Tiny Tim, for example, is included despite a consistent three-decade career in the music industry that included a major chart hit, and the Legendary Stardust Cowboy had a brief moment of widespread fame in the 1960s with several national television appeararnces.\n\nChusid posited that the biggest-selling artist fitting of the \"outsider\" label could be Brian Wilson of the Beach Boys, citing the widely circulated bootlegs of his unreleased 1970s and 1980s demos. However, \"considering the level on which he's been embraced by the public, it's difficult to make a case for him as an outsider.\" Similarly, Chusid avoided covering \"other outré icons who have achieved wide public exposure, such as Frank Zappa, Sun Ra, Marilyn Manson, and the Butthole Surfers, to name a few. Many (if not most) major figures in the arts began their rise to stardom as nominal outsiders.\"\n\nChusid credited outsider musicians for the existence of dub reggae (\"invented by an outsider, Lee \"Scratch\" Perry\"), the K Records and Sub Pop record labels, and the \"punk/new-wave/no-wave upheaval that undermined prog-rock and airbrush-pop in the mid- to late-1970s [and] hyped itself with the defiant notion that anyone―regardless of technical proficiency or lack thereof―could make music as long as it represented genuine, naturalistic self-expression.\" Specific acts that \"significantly contributed―directly and indirectly―to contemporary popular music\" include Syd Barrett, Captain Beefheart, the Shaggs, Harry Partch, Robert Graettinger, and Daniel Johnston. Conversely, the book \"Faking It: The Quest for Authenticity in Popular Music\" (2007) argues that \"few of the outsiders praised by their fans can be called innovators; most of them are simply naïve.\" \n\nSkip Spence's \"Oar\" (1969), Beefheart's \"Trout Mask Replica\" (produced by Frank Zappa, 1969), and Barrett's \"The Madcap Laughs\" (1970), according to music historian John Encarnacao, \"were particularly important in helping to define a framework through which outsider recordings are understood ... [They] seeded many ideas and practices, affirming them as desirable in the context of rock mythology.\" In 1969, Zappa co-founded Bizarre Records, a label dedicated to \"musical and sociological material that the important record companies would probably not allow you to hear,\" and approached the production of \"Trout Mask Replica\" like an anthropological field recording. Beefheart was not on the Bizarre label, but Larry \"Wild Man\" Fischer was. Fischer was a street performer discovered by Zappa and is sometimes regarded as \"the grandfather of outsider music\". In the liner notes of the 1968 album \"An Evening with Wild Man Fischer\", Zappa writes: \"Please listen to this album several times before you decide whether or not you like it or what Wild Man Fischer is all about. He has something to say to you, even though you might not want to hear it.\" According to musicologist Adam Harper, the writing prefigures similar commentary on \"the also mentally ill Daniel Johnston.\"\n\nAfter a 1980 reissue, the Shaggs attracted notoriety for their 1969 album \"Philosophy of the World\", which received prominent national coverage. It was referred to as \"the worst rock album ever made\" by the \"New York Times\" and later championed in published lists such as \"the 100 most influential alternative albums of all time\", \"the greatest garage recordings of the 20th century\", and \"the fifty most significant indie records\". Zappa famously praised the band as better than the Beatles. In the 1990s, interest in outsider music was spurred by books such as \"Incredibly Strange Music\" (1994) and compilations devoted to obscure musicians such as B. J. Snowden, Wesley Willis, Lucia Pamela, and Eilert Pilarm.\n\nOutsider musicians tend to overlap with \"lo-fi\" artists since their work is rarely captured in professional studios. Harper credits the discourse surrounding Daniel Johnston and Jandek with \"form[ing] a bridge between 1980s primitivism and the lo-fi indie rock of the 1990s. ... both musicians introduced the notion that lo-fi was not just acceptable but the special context of some extraordinary and brilliant musicians.\" Critics frequently write about Johnston's \"pure and childlike soul\" and describe him as the \"Brian Wilson\" of lo-fi.\n\nR. Stevie Moore, who pioneered lo-fi/DIY music, was affiliated with Irwin Chusid as well as being associated with the \"outsider\" tag. He recalled \"always ha[ving] the dilemma that [Irwin] did not want to present me as an outsider, like a Wesley Willis or a Daniel Johnston, or these people that are touched in the head and have a certain gift. I love outsider music ... but they have no concept as to how to write or arrange a Brian Wilson song.\" (Moore's father, Bob Moore, was a consummate musical insider, having worked as a session musician with the Nashville A-Team.)\n\nDocumentary films\n"}
{"id": "20982049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20982049", "title": "Over the River...Life of Lydia Maria Child, Abolitionist for Freedom", "text": "Over the River...Life of Lydia Maria Child, Abolitionist for Freedom\n\nOver the River…Life of Lydia Maria Child, Abolitionist for Freedom is a 2007 documentary film and book about the life of Lydia Maria Child. The film was produced by Permanent Productions, Inc., written and directed by Constance L. Jackson, narrated by Diahann Carroll and features James Moses Black, Michele S. Patterson, Greta Muxworthy, Beth Lockhart and Jacob Conrad.\n\nBefore the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 1960s and before the names of Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. and Rosa Parks were uttered as harbingers of social justice, came the first Civil Rights Movement in America—the abolitionists of the 19th century. Abolitionists used literature, petitions, and public speaking to forge change, but there was one who stood out in her time that was central to altering America's course: the author and editor, Lydia Maria (pronounced Mariah) Child. Many would argue that Lydia Maria Child and the abolitionist cause were one of the key reasons the Civil War happened. Coined by William Lloyd Garrison as the \"First Woman in the Republic,\" Child was an unwavering advocate for change. Child's influence extended to legislators and to President Abraham Lincoln. A friend and loyalist to African Americans, Native Americans, and immigrant causes, Child's literature, that span 50 years, made her a household name in thousands of homes during those tumultuous times in America. She is known today as the author of the Thanksgiving Day song \"Over the River and Through the Woods to Grandmother's House We Go\".\nHer many books were the first written on the subjects of religious ideas, aging, interracial love, domestic advice, Indian rights, women's rights, prison and social reform, and abolishing slavery. The bombshell book written in 1833 \"An Appeal in Favor of that Class of Americans Called Africans\" transcended time and was used by leaders during the 1960s Civil Rights Movement. Many of her books are housed in museums or used as reference material in libraries, while some of her works are still published today for lay readers, scholars, and researchers studying the impact she made on Americans.\nLydia Maria Child was well regarded and quite known as an influential figure among her abolitionist and literary peers. \"Over the River\" highlights the relationship Child had with notable figures such as William Lloyd Garrison, Theodore Parker, Thomas Wentworth Higginson, Abby Kelley, Frederick Douglass, Lucretia Mott, Maria Weston Chapman, Harriet Jacobs, Senator Charles Sumner, John Brown, Angelina Grimke, Robert Gould Shaw, Edgar Allan Poe, Margaret Fuller, violinist Ole Bull, John Greenleaf Whittier, James Russell Lowell, and Isaac T. Hopper, just to name a few.\n\nThe epic three-part documentary DVD and book \"Over the River...Life of Lydia Maria Child, Abolitionist for Freedom\" explores the life of Lydia Maria Child and the abolitionist soldiers, and displays how young and old, en masse, rallied for social change for all Americans — to free themselves and black Americans from the chains of indignity.\n\n\n\n\nDirector Constance L. Jackson presented \"Over The River\" at Colgate University on October 22, 2009 and lead a workshop discussion titled \"Becoming an Agent of Change, Then and Now\" (centered around the film \"Over the River...Life of Lydia Maria Child, Abolitionist for Freedom\") on October 23, 2009, where Jackson helped create the definition of an Agent of Change with Colgate University faculty, students, residents, and guests of Hamilton, NY.\n\n"}
{"id": "56520396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56520396", "title": "Palace of Nakhchivan Khans", "text": "Palace of Nakhchivan Khans\n\nPalace of Nakhchivan Khans () is historical and architectural monument of the 18th century located in Nakhchivan. The monument built in the style of the Nakhchivan-Maragha architectural school was the residence of the Nakhchivan khans before the early 20th century. At the end of the 18th century, the palace was built with the order of Nakhchivan khan, Ehsan Khan’s father Kelbali Khan Kangarli. The Khan Palace has been operating since April 1998 as Nakhchivan Carpet Museum.\n\nThe Khan Palace is built on the western side of the palace complex with a 3600 m² area, facing daylight as khan steep. The Khan Palace complex features a 42 x 8 m building, a newly built swimming pool, water well, green stripes, ornamental and fruit trees. The building is two floors. By the time the palace consisted of two separate sections. The southern section is intended for administrative work and reception of high-class guests, while the northern section is intended for khan's family. Entrance to sections was one of the corridors with two-storeyed balconies. Currently, only southern corridor is used because of the museum's location in the palace. An internal passage was created between the sections. The corridors go above the main façade. The stairs are surrounded by bricks and are fixed with wooden railings.\n\nThe total area of the Khan Palace is 382 m² and thickness of its walls vary from 60 cm to 1.1 m. The building was built with baked bricks of 20x20x5 cm. The windows have network styles and all rooms have all sizes of niches Nakhchivan residential houses used. There are 3 rooms on the 1st floor, 8 rooms (2 halls) on 2nd floor and 2 attics on the ornaments that are used as rooms. Both mansions have access to open balconies over the corridors. In the western part of the hall designed for guests, a 40 cm height stage type couch was built. The open windows of the wooden beam are decorated with nets and ceilings with small mirrors. Other walls of the hall have been designed with trunks, fountain and plot illustrations. In the course of many repairs and restoration works, the paintings were damaged or covered with plaster. The southern wall and its surroundings are decorated with geometrical shapes and mirror pieces. The building was warmed by two steamers placed on the walls.\n\nAfter the Nakhichevan Khanate was abolished, the Kangarli cavalry commander was placed in this palace, and the headquarters of the Nakhchivan National Defense Council moved here in 1918–1920. Khan's palace has been preserved in various periods, although it has been preserved. \n\nThe Khan Palace has been operating since April 1998 as the Nakhchivan Carpet Museum. The museum consists of 8 halls, one of which is dedicated to Nakhchivan khans. At the time of creation 359 exhibits were registered in the museum, but now their number exceeds 2,000 (305 carpets). Here are samples of all types of carpets (xovlu: gaba, zili and xovsuz: sumax, varni, rug, palaz, shadda, cecim, etc.) and carpet products (mufrash, heybat, khurcun, sack, orkan, etc.) is displayed. The carpet samples of the 18th to 19th centuries are stored in the Ganja-Gazakh, Guba-Shirvan, Garabagh, Tabriz-Nakhchivan carpet-weaving schools. According to the flavorings, \"Gull Chichi\", \"Pirabadil\", \"Alpan\", \"Ancient Afshan\", \"Hunting\", \"Zili\", \"Old Buta\", \"Nakhchivan\", \"Gasimushagi\" along with carpets, carved carpets, national carpet (national artist K. Aliyev), \"Leyli and Majnun\", \"Karabakh landscape\", \"Gray wolves\", \"Ganja gozal\" and others were portrayed by the Heydar Aliyev also occupies an important place. The museum houses household items – copper samples, pottery and porcelain containers, antique men's and women's national costumes. \n\nArchitecture of Azerbaijan\n"}
{"id": "16568536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16568536", "title": "Planar projection", "text": "Planar projection\n\nPlanar projections are the subset of 3D graphical projections constructed by linearly mapping points in three-dimensional space to points on a two-dimensional projection plane. The projected point on the plane is chosen such that it is collinear with the corresponding three-dimensional point and the centre of projection. The lines connecting these points are commonly referred to as projectors. \n\nThe centre of projection can be thought of as the location of the observer while the plane of projection is the surface on which the two dimensional projected image of the scene is recorded or from which it is viewed (e.g., photographic negative, photographic print, computer monitor). When the centre of projection is at a finite distance from the projection plane, a perspective projection is obtained. When the centre of projection is at infinity, all the projectors are parallel, and the corresponding subset of planar projections are referred to as parallel projections.\n\nMathematically, planar projections are linear transformations acting on a point in three-dimensional space formula_1 to give a point formula_2 on the projection plane. These transformations consist of various compositions of the five transformations: orthographic projection, rotation, shear, translation and perspective.\n\nIt is also used in maps to show the planet Earth and other planets or objects in space. This is good for maps of close-up areas.\n"}
{"id": "4074967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4074967", "title": "Precita Eyes", "text": "Precita Eyes\n\nPrecita Eyes Muralists Association is a community-based non-profit muralist and arts education group located in the Mission District of San Francisco, California, founded in 1977 by Susan and Luis Cervantes.\n\nPrecita Eyes Muralists Association was founded in 1977 by Susan and Luis Cervantes who had come to the Bay Area several years before and started a family. Susan Cervantes herself had been inspired by “Las Mujeres Muralistas,” the first all-women group of collaborative muralists from which she applies her strategy of collaborative, accessible, community art.\n\nThe organization evolved from a community mural workshop in which the participants designed and painted the portable mural “Masks of God, Soul of Man” for the Bernal Heights Library. The group signed the piece as Precita Eyes Muralists because the project was a collaborative effort. The name of the organization comes from the fact that most of the muralists were from Precita Valley. Precita is a diminutive form of the Spanish word ‘presa,’ which means dam; the word ‘Precita’ means little dam. The ‘Eyes’ in the name are what we perceive the visual world with, our own eyes.\n\nAfter the first mural, the group of artists continued to be interested in creating murals. They completed two major mural commissions and several more portable murals. Two years later, the group applied for non-profit status in 1979. In 1998 Precita Eyes expanded its operations with the purchase of the building at 2981 24th Street, near the well-known Balmy Alley. As of 2007, Precita Eyes had supported nearly 100 murals in the Mission neighborhood, including on The Women's Building and Cesar Chavez Elementary School.\n\nPrecita Eyes celebrated its 30th anniversary in 2007 and continues to conduct several mural projects each year. Recent projects include two international projects, one in Beijing, China and the other in parts of Palestine and Lebanon. Other recent local projects involved the restoration of two San Francisco Parks, Excelsior Playground and Crocker-Amazon Playground. They also host an annual Urban Youth Arts Festival, with artists painting on boards in Precita Park.\n\nMurals are an expression of the culture of the neighborhood; in an article about Precita Eyes, muralist Juana Alicia Montoya said \"In the 1960s and '70s, the Mission District became the cultural heart of the Chicano movement in California...And the murals were an integral part of that movement, as was theater and poetry.\" The book \"Chicana and Chicano Art: ProtestArte\" says \"Arts organizations such as Precita Eyes continue to support Chicano muralism's original objective: to create public art that authentically represents a community's history and culture.\"\n\nPrecita Eyes Muralists is one of only a handful of mural arts organizations in the United States. It maintains two centers. The original Mural Arts Center at 348 Precita Avenue is used primarily by the education program for toddler, kids and youth classes. The Precita Eyes Mural Arts and Visitors Center, at 2981 24th Street, conducts mural tours; has a small art supply and mural merchandise store; is used as a gallery space and a space for workshops for adults to plan and design mural art; has space to work on mosaics and portable murals; and contains Precita Eyes Muralists’ Offices.\n\nPrecita Eyes Muralists offers weekly art classes for toddlers, children and youth 18 months to 19 years old. These programs enable students to find and develop their confidence and individuality through arts and crafts, and experience positive social interaction through collaboration in a safe environment. It also offers regular workshops for adults such as the Community Mural Arts Education Workshop. Overall the educational programs serve approximately 3,000 children, youth and adults yearly, most of whom qualify as moderate to low income. People served by the program include young people caught for doing graffiti and required to do community service hours.\n\nPrecita Eyes offers walking tours that cover mural history and the cultural and historical significance of the murals in Balmy Alley and the wider Mission district. Tours are open to the public during the weekends. Private tours for large groups such as school classes or visiting groups can be scheduled during the weekday and are tailored to the audience.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39517835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39517835", "title": "Ramachandran: A Retrospective", "text": "Ramachandran: A Retrospective\n\nA Ramachandran: A Retrospective (2004), is a two-volume book by Indian art historian R. Siva Kumar. It is a study of the life and works of artist A. Ramachandran. It has more than 500 reproductions and a selection of rare, historical photographs. Selected writings by the artist, biographical notes and chronology of works are also included in the book.\n\nAccording to the publisher, the book \"may well be considered a model in writing about an artist and his work, and will be of immense value to coming generations of art scholars and connoisseurs.\" It is the most comprehensive book on A. Ramachandran's art.\n\n"}
{"id": "17272930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17272930", "title": "Ramsdell Theatre", "text": "Ramsdell Theatre\n\nThe Ramsdell Theatre is an historic playhouse and opera house located at 101 Maple Street in downtown Manistee, Michigan, built in 1902 - 1903 by local lawyer and philanthropist Thomas Jefferson Ramsdell. It is located at the corner of First and Maple Streets. It is a Michigan Historic Building serving as a cultural center for Western Michigan.\n\nToday, the Ramsdell Regional Center for the Arts (RRCA) is a 501(c)(3) organization that manages and operates the Ramsdell Theatre under lease from the City of Manistee. The RRCA is proud to serve its community and the region by programming quality arts and cultural entertainment. The RRCA produces over 20 music, dance, and theatre performances a year and is focused on optimizing an irreplaceable regional center for cultural, education and social activities through programming excellence, fiscal stability, strong community partnerships and committed volunteers.\n\nThe exterior is a classic Colonial design of red brick with six large columns supporting the portico over the main entrance to the theatre. The Ramsdell Theatre and the adjoining assembly hall called Ramsdell Great Hall are distinct buildings from each other, although built at the same time. Solon Spencer Beman, the prominent Chicago architect and builder of Pullman, was contracted by Ramsdell to design and build the community cultural center.\n\nThe theatre features a double balcony upstairs and private viewing boxes along the main floor. Its original seating capacity was 1200, however has been cut back to 462 today for fire safety. It has four boxes, two on each side of the stage end and two in the lower balcony. The building has a hipped roof, denticulated modillion cornice, pedimented center pavilion, portico Doric columns, round arched entrance, ornamental brick panels, and dome murals. The most striking feature of the green and gold interior is the horseshoe balcony supported by numerous pillars which extend to the tin plated ceiling.\n\nThe theatre was comparable to the best opera and vaudeville houses in the country at the turn of the century when it was constructed. The stage measures deep and wide. The gilded proscenium arch is wide. The gridiron is above the stage while the two fly galleries are almost about the stage. In addition, there is a paint gallery that is above the stage floor. This enables artists to paint scenery cloths while viewing them vertically. The theatre was proclaimed \"acoustically perfect\" when it was built.\n\nThe interior decoration was completed by some very famous artists in their own right. The famed theatrical artist Walter Burridge, scenic artist who painted sets for \"The Wizard of Oz\", painted the front drop curtain entitled \"A Grove Near Athens\" that is still being put in use today. Frederic Winthrop Ramsdell, Ramsdell's son painted the two lunettes in the lobby. They were the lavish dome in the house depicting Venus riding her chariot through the heavens, surrounded by cherubs. There is a gilded proscenium besides these original murals that bedeck the dome.\n\nConstruction began on the building in 1901 after the two previous Manistee opera houses were destroyed by fire. The first Scandinavian Opera House was built by the Scandinavian Society \"Nordisk Fremskridts Forening\" for the purpose of debates, music, and dramatics. It was built in 1876 and burned in 1882. The Scandinavians built a new Opera House in 1883 and it also burned in 1900. The third opera house built by Thomas Jefferson Ramsdell cost over $100,000 in the currency of over a century ago. This is the structure that still stands and is being used today as the Ramsdell Theatre and Hall.\n\nThe early years after preopening in the later part of 1902 with a ball by the Manistee Retail Clerk's Union were quite impressive. It showed that the arts were accepted in this small lumber lawless town. It officially opened on September 4, 1903, with the performance of \"A Chinese Honeymoon\".\n\nTwenty-five more plays were performed in 1903 with a record 53 plays presented in 1904. Ramsdell leased the theatre to the Western theatre Association of Chicago in 1909 which was terminated in 1912. The plays and shows averaged around 40 each year while they were in production.\n\nRamsdell died in 1917. The theatre was purchased for $25,000 from his estate in 1925 by the Manistee Rotarians. It was then turned into a movie theatre house for five years that ran out of date movies. In 1936 it was leased to the Butterfield Theatre chain that ran first run movies.\n\nIn 1939, the Manistee Civic Players (MCP) were formed and secured permission from the Butterfield Theatre chain for the use of the Ramsdell for rehearsals. They performed two productions each year. Their first production was \"The Night of January 16th\" which was performed on September 14, 1939. The Civic Players performed four more plays between 1939 and 1941.\n\nThe Manistee Rotarians in 1941 proposed to the City that they purchase the theatre and hall for $3000 per year. This was to go over a twelve-year period. There was a need for armory space for the Michigan State Troops. At the end of this period, the City would acquire the property and save thousands in rental costs for a facility for the troops. The Manistee Recreation Association was established in 1942 to provide for youth activities in the community. They were allowed to occupy part of the space of the hall from time to time.\n\nDuring World War II the activity of the Civic Players dwindled to nothing. There were no theatrical productions for nine years. In this time there was much damage to the buildings due to lack of maintenance. In 1949, a group of women's clubs (Lakeside Club, Junior Lakeside Club, and Business and Professional Women's Club) formed the Civic Betterment Committee. The main objective was to restore the Ramsdell Theatre back to its original heyday.\n\nIn 1951, the Manistee Drama Festival was formed. It opened with Ruth Gordon's \"Over 21\". The second production was \"George Washington Slept Here\" which cast local players. By this time a number of restoration objectives were accomplished by the profits from these productions. In the second season of the Manistee Drama Festival, a person by the name of Dr. Madge Skelly was engaged to direct most of the season's plays. In 1953 the city of Manistee purchased the theatre and hall. Dr. Skelly then completely assumed the direction of the Manistee Summer Theatre. She had this position and was responsible for the Manistee Drama Festival until 1961. The Manistee Civic Players began producing approximately four shows each year after 1963. At least one of them each year has been a musical production.\n\nIn 1953 a young black aspiring actor by the name of James Earl Jones had his beginnings here. In this year he started as a stage carpenter. In the 1955 through the 1957 summer seasons he was an actor and stage manager. His first portrayal of Shakespeare’s Othello was on stage in this theatre in 1955. He has returned twice to support fundraising efforts for the restoration project.\n\nThere is a Historical Marker placed at the front entrance of the theatre that reads:\n"}
{"id": "5168803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5168803", "title": "Sturm und Drang", "text": "Sturm und Drang\n\nSturm und Drang (, literally \"storm and drive\", \"storm and urge\", though conventionally translated as \"storm and stress\") was a proto-Romantic movement in German literature and music that occurred between the late 1760s and early 1780s. Within the movement, individual subjectivity and, in particular, extremes of emotion were given free expression in reaction to the perceived constraints of rationalism imposed by the Enlightenment and associated aesthetic movements. The period is named for Friedrich Maximilian Klinger's play of the same name, which was first performed by Abel Seyler's famed theatrical company in 1777.\n\nThe philosopher Johann Georg Hamann is considered to be the ideologue of \"Sturm und Drang\"; other significant figures were Johann Anton Leisewitz, Jakob Michael Reinhold Lenz, H. L. Wagner, and Friedrich Maximilian Klinger. Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Friedrich Schiller were notable proponents of the movement early in their life, although they ended their period of association with it by initiating what would become Weimar Classicism.\n\nFrench neoclassicism (including French neoclassical theatre), a movement beginning in the early Baroque, with its emphasis on the rational, was the principal target of rebellion for adherents of the \"Sturm und Drang\" movement. For them, sentimentality and an objective view of life gave way to emotional turbulence and individuality, and enlightenment ideals such as rationalism, empiricism, and universalism no longer captured the human condition; emotional extremes and subjectivity became the vogue during the late 18th century.\n\nThe term \"Sturm und Drang\" first appeared as the title of a play by Friedrich Maximilian Klinger, written for Abel Seyler's \"Seylersche Schauspiel-Gesellschaft\" and published in 1776. The setting of the play is the unfolding American Revolution, in which the author gives violent expression to difficult emotions and extols individuality and subjectivity over the prevailing order of rationalism. Though it is argued that literature and music associated with \"Sturm und Drang\" predate this seminal work, it was from this point that German artists became distinctly self-conscious of a new aesthetic. This seemingly spontaneous movement became associated with a wide array of German authors and composers of the mid-to-late Classical period.\n\n\"Sturm und Drang\" came to be associated with literature or music aimed at shocking the audience or imbuing them with extremes of emotion. The movement soon gave way to Weimar Classicism and early Romanticism, whereupon a socio-political concern for greater human freedom from despotism was incorporated along with a religious treatment of all things natural.\n\nThere is much debate regarding whose work should or should not be included in the canon of \"Sturm und Drang\". One point of view would limit the movement to Goethe, Johann Gottfried Herder, Jakob Michael Reinhold Lenz, and their direct German associates writing works of fiction and/or philosophy between 1770 and the early 1780s. The alternative perspective is that of a literary movement inextricably linked to simultaneous developments in prose, poetry, and drama, extending its direct influence throughout the German-speaking lands until the end of the 18th century. Nevertheless, the originators of the movement came to view it as a time of premature exuberance that was then abandoned in favor of often conflicting artistic pursuits.\n\nThe literary topos of the \"Kraftmensch\" existed as a precursor to \"Sturm und Drang\" among dramatists beginning with F.M. Klinger, the expression of which is seen in the radical degree to which individuality need appeal to no outside authority save the self nor be tempered by rationalism. These ideals are identical to those of \"Sturm und Drang\", and it can be argued that the later name exists to catalog a number of parallel, co-influential movements in German literature rather than express anything substantially different from what German dramatists were achieving in the violent plays attributed to the Kraftmensch movement.\n\nMajor philosophical/theoretical influences on the literary \"Sturm und Drang\" movement were Johann Georg Hamann (especially the 1762 text \"Aesthetica in nuce. Eine Rhapsodie in kabbalistischer Prose\") and Johann Gottfried Herder, both from Königsberg, and both formerly in contact with Immanuel Kant. Significant theoretical statements of Sturm und Drang aesthetics by the movement's central dramatists themselves include Lenz' \"Anmerkungen übers Theater\" and Goethe's \"Von deutscher Baukunst\" and \"Zum Schäkespears Tag\" (\"sic\"). The most important contemporary document was the 1773 volume \"Von deutscher Art und Kunst. Einige fliegende Blätter\", a collection of essays that included commentaries by Herder on Ossian and Shakespeare, along with contributions by Goethe, Paolo Frisi (in translation from the Italian), and Justus Möser.\n\nThe protagonist in a typical \"Sturm und Drang\" stage work, poem, or novel is driven to action—often violent action—not by pursuit of noble means nor by true motives, but by revenge and greed. Goethe's unfinished \"Prometheus\" exemplifies this along with the common ambiguity provided by juxtaposing humanistic platitudes with outbursts of irrationality. The literature of \"Sturm und Drang\" features an anti-aristocratic slant while seeking to elevate all things humble, natural, or intensely real (especially whatever is painful, tormenting, or frightening).\n\nThe story of hopeless love and eventual suicide presented in Goethe's sentimental novel \"Die Leiden des jungen Werthers\" (1774) is an example of the author's tempered introspection regarding his love and torment. Friedrich Schiller's drama, \"Die Räuber\" (1781), provided the groundwork for melodrama to become a recognized dramatic form. The plot portrays a conflict between two aristocratic brothers, Franz and Karl Moor. Franz is cast as a villain attempting to cheat Karl out of his inheritance, though the motives for his action are complex and initiate a thorough investigation of good and evil. Both of these works are seminal examples of \"Sturm und Drang\" in German literature.\n\n\nThe Classical period music (1750–1800) associated with \"Sturm und Drang\" is predominantly written in a minor key to convey difficult or depressing sentiments. The principal themes tend to be angular, with large leaps and unpredictable melodic contours. Tempos and dynamics change rapidly and unpredictably in order to reflect strong changes of emotion. Pulsing rhythms and syncopation are common, as are racing lines in the soprano or alto registers. Writing for string instruments features tremolo and sudden, dramatic dynamic changes and accents.\n\nMusical theater became the meeting place of the literary and musical strands of \"Sturm und Drang\", with the aim of increasing emotional expression in opera. The obligato recitative is a prime example. Here, orchestral accompaniment provides an intense underlay of vivid tone-painting to the solo recitative. Christoph Willibald Gluck's 1761 ballet, \"Don Juan\", heralded the emergence of \"Sturm und Drang\" in music; the program notes explicitly indicated that the D minor finale was to evoke fear in the listener. Jean Jacques Rousseau's 1762 play, \"Pygmalion\" (first performed in 1770) is a similarly important bridge in its use of underlying instrumental music to convey the mood of the spoken drama. The first example of melodrama, \"Pygmalion\" influenced Goethe and other important German literary figures.\n\nNevertheless, relative to the influence of \"Sturm und Drang\" on literature, the influence on musical composition was limited, and many efforts to label music as conforming to this trend are tenuous at best. Vienna, the center of German/Austrian music, was a cosmopolitan city with an international culture; therefore, melodically innovative and expressive works in minor keys by Mozart or Haydn from this period should generally be considered first in the broader context of musical developments taking place throughout Europe. The clearest musical connections to the self-styled \"Sturm und Drang\" movement can be found in opera and the early predecessors of program music, such as Haydn's \"Farewell\" Symphony.\n\nA \"Sturm und Drang\" period is often attributed to the works of the Austrian composer Joseph Haydn from the late 1760s to early 1770s. Works during this period often feature a newly impassioned or agitated element; however, Haydn never mentions \"Sturm und Drang\" as a motivation for his new compositional style, and there remains an overarching adherence to classical form and motivic unity. Though Haydn may not have been consciously affirming the anti-rational ideals of \"Sturm und Drang\", one can certainly perceive the influence of contemporary trends in musical theatre on his instrumental works during this period.\n\nMozart's Symphony No. 25 (the 'Little' G-minor symphony, 1773) is one of only two minor-key symphonies by the composer. Beyond the atypical key, the symphony features rhythmic syncopation along with the jagged themes associated with Sturm und Drang. More interesting is the emancipation of the wind instruments in this piece, with the violins yielding to colorful bursts from the oboe and flute. However, it is likely the influence of numerous minor-key works by the Czech composer Johann Baptist Wanhal (a Viennese contemporary and acquaintance of Mozart), rather than a self-conscious adherence to a German literary movement, which is responsible for the harmonic and melodic experiments in the Symphony no. 25.\n\n\nThe parallel movement in the visual arts can be witnessed in paintings of storms and shipwrecks showing the terror and irrational destruction wrought by nature. These pre-romantic works were fashionable in Germany from the 1760s on through the 1780s, illustrating a public audience for emotionally provocative artwork. Additionally, disturbing visions and portrayals of nightmares were gaining an audience in Germany as evidenced by Goethe's possession and admiration of paintings by Fuseli capable of 'giving the viewer a good fright.' Notable artists included Joseph Vernet, Caspar Wolf, Philip James de Loutherbourg, and Henry Fuseli.\n\nThe Sturm und Drang movement did not last long; according to Betty Waterhouse it began in 1771 and ended in 1778 (Waterhouse v). The rise of the middle class in the 18th century led to a change in the way society and social standings were looked at. Dramatists and writers saw the stage as a venue for critique and discussion of societal issues. French writer Louis-Sébastien Mercier suggested that drama be used to promote political ideas, a concept that would develop many years later. After the Seven Years’ War, which ended in 1763, German spirit was extremely high and Germans felt a sense of importance on a grander stage. The aristocracy gained power as the ruling class, furthering the divide and increasing tensions between the classes (Liedner viii). With these new ideals came the sense that a new form of art capable of dethroning the extremely popular French neoclassicism was needed. Johann Georg Hamann, a noted German philosopher and a major promoter of the Sturm und Drang movement, “defended the native culture of the Volk and maintained that language, the root of all our experience, was richer in images and more powerful prior to the ‘abstract’ eighteenth century” (Liedner viii). Germany did not have a common nationality, and the nation broke up into hundreds of small states. The Sturm und Drang movement was a reaction to this lack of nationality and often dealt with the idea of living life on a smaller scale and the desire to become a part of something bigger.\n\nThe Sturm und Drang movement also paid a lot of attention to the language of a piece of literature. It is no wonder that Shakespeare, with his brilliant use of language, originality with complex plot lines and subplots, and multifaceted characters from all social classes, was seen as a model for German writers (Wilson and Goldfarb 287). Many writers of the Sturm und Drang movement considered themselves to be challengers of the Enlightenment. However, the movement is actually a continuation of the Enlightenment. Many Sturm und Drang plays showed interest in how society affects the individual, a common theme in many Enlightenment plays as well. However, Sturm und Drang “makes its own distinctive contribution to 18th-century culture, bringing attention to the power of the environment as well as to the contradictory and self-defeating attitudes present in every segment of society” (Liedner ix). Far before its time, the divergent style of Sturm und Drang shrewdly explored depression and violence with an open plot structure (Liedner ix). The Sturm und Drang movement rebelled against all the rules of neoclassicism and the enlightenment, first recognized Shakespeare as a “genius” of dramaturgy, and provided the foundation for 19th-century romanticism. Writers such as Heinrich Leopold Wagner, Goethe, Lenz, Klinger, and Schiller used episodic structure, violence, and mixed genres to comment on societal rules and morals, while doubting that anything would change. The Sturm und Drang movement was brief, but it set a fire that still burns intensely today.\n\nSix main playwrights initiated and popularized the Sturm und Drang movement: Leisewitz, Wagner, Goethe, Lenz, Klinger, and Schiller. The theatre director Abel Seyler, the owner of the Seylersche Schauspiel-Gesellschaft, had an important role in promoting the Sturm und Drang poets.\n\nJohann Anton Leisewitz was born in Hanover in 1752 and studied law. He is remembered for his single complete play, \"Julius of Tarent\" (1776), which is considered the forerunner of Schiller's work \"The Robbers\" (1781). He was married to Sophie Seyler, the daughter of theatre director Abel Seyler.\n\nHeinrich Leopold Wagner was born in Strasbourg on February 19, 1747. He studied law and was a member of the literary group surrounding Johann Daniel Salzmann. He was a dramatist, producer, translator, and lawyer for the traveling Abel Seyler theatre company. Wagner was best known for his two plays, \"Die Reue nach der Tat\" (“The Remorse After the Deed”) in 1775 and \"Die Kindermorderin\" (“The Childmurderess”) in 1776. Child murder was a very popular topic in the 18th century and all of the major Sturm und Drang writers used it as a subject in their writings (Waterhouse 97). \"Die Kindermorderin\" was one of the most traditional plays of the Sturm und Drang. Although sharing aspects of neoclassical plays, such as a fairly simple plot and very few changes in the setting, it breaks away from the neoclassical idea that the protagonist must be of noble descent. Instead, this play shows how the aristocracy disrupts the lives of middle class characters (Liedner xii). This play also uses a vast array of colorful language to demonstrate the variety of characters and their social statuses. Another common theme seen in \"Die Kindermorderin\" is the idea of society hindering change. Groningseck, a lieutenant, seems to be willing to look past social norms and break down walls between the classes, but a fellow officer, Hasenpoth, betrays him (Liedner xii).\n\nJohann Wolfgang von Goethe was born in August 1749, in the Free Imperial City of Frankfurt, Holy Roman Empire. He wrote his first important play, Goetz von Berlichingen in 1773, in Shakespearean style, a defining characteristic of the Sturm und Drang movement (Wilson and Goldfarb 287). Shakespeare was considered a genius among German playwrights, and was idolized for his “shattering of the dramatic unities of time, place and action; and his sharply individualized, emotionally complex characters” (Waterhouse v). Goethe was well known for his staging as well as his long dramatic poem Faust (Goethe's Faust) (Wilson and Goldfarb 287). Goethe was the director of theatre at the Weimar Theatre where he eventually ran the entire company. He went to Italy for two years to collect himself and while there discovered the beauty of the Greek and Roman ruins. After this trip he returned with interest in classical ideas and writing, and a new form of writing emerged called Weimar Classicism.\n\nJakob Michael Reinhold Lenz was born in Sesswegen, now Latvia, on the January 23, 1751. He studied theology and philosophy at the University of Konigsberg. His first poem, Die Landplagen (“Torments of the Land”), emerged in 1769. He went on to write “Notes on the Theatre”, The New Menoza and Der Hofmeister (“The Tutor”) in 1774, Pandemonium Germanicum in 1775, and Die Soldaten (“The Soldiers”) in 1776 (Liedner xi). Lenz took Aristotle’s popular idea of plot being more important than character and reversed it, as well as reclassified the distinctions between comedy and tragedy. In Lenz’s works, tragedies feature characters that make decisions that cause events, and in comedies a resolute milieu pushes and pulls the character through events (Liedner xi). The Soldiers is most likely Lenz’s most distinct example of Sturm und Drang literature. It centers on an idea of degradation of civilians by soldiers, but more specifically the seduction and abuse of young women by soldiers. Illustrating an undesirable, conflicted character with no power over her situation who does whatever she can to get through her current state, The Soldiers displays a “well-observed world where one’s identity is fluid – and hopelessly entangled in the social and linguistic environment” (Liedner xi). This idea of feeling unable to change one’s situation is typical of many Sturm und Drang plays. Lenz’s use of reserved dialogue, open form, violence, and a combination of comedy and tragedy precursors the works of contemporary authors such as Friedrich Dürrenmatt and Bertolt Brecht (Waterhouse v).\n\nFriedrich Maximilian Klinger was born in Frankfurt on February 17, 1752. He was born into a humble family and struggled financially after the death of his father. He studied law at Giessen with the financial help of Goethe’s family. He also worked with the Abel Seyler troupe for a year and a half (Pascal 132). Although famous for his Sturm und Drang style plays, many of his earlier plays were very classical in style. Some of Klinger’s works include Die Zwillinge (1776), Die neue Arria (1776), Simsone Grisaldo (1776), and Stilpo und seine Kinder (1780). Klinger’s most famous play, Sturm und Drang (1776), is the seminal piece of literature associated with the Sturm und Drang epoch. Strangely, the play is set in revolutionary America, not Germany. We see allusions to Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet through the feuds of the households, as well as All's Well That Ends Well in some of the character’s names (Liedner xiii). Klinger utilized a defining characteristic of Sturm und Drang when he mixed aspects of comedy and tragedy throughout the play, stating “ the deepest tragic emotion continually alternates with laughter and joviality\" (Liedner xiii).\n\nFriedrich Schiller was born in Marbach on November 10, 1759. He studied medicine at Karlsschule Stuttgart, a prestigious military academy founded by the Duke of Württemberg. He developed a strong relationship with Goethe, one of the most influential writers of the time (Wilson and Goldfarb 287). They were particularly interested in questions concerning aesthetics. This relationship led to an epoch known as Weimar Classicism, a style that integrates classical, romantic and enlightenment ideals (Leidner xiv). Following Schiller’s plays \"Die Räuber\" (\"The Robbers\") and \"Kabale und Liebe\" (\"Intrigue and Love\"), he went on to become a major poet as well as to write famous essays and Weimar Classical drama (Leidner xiv). \"Die Räuber\" tells the story of two brothers, the younger of which is infuriated by how society favors the first-born child and he acts on his feelings without any regard to societal rules or social standing. In act five, his views on God “represent the most blasphemous attack on religion in German literature up to that time… [and] is a masterful work of social dynamics that takes deep German patterns of sensibility into account” (Leidner xiv).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1600858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1600858", "title": "The Garden of Earthly Delights", "text": "The Garden of Earthly Delights\n\nThe Garden of Earthly Delights is the modern title given to a triptych oil painting on oak panel painted by the Early Netherlandish master Hieronymus Bosch, between 1490 and 1510, when Bosch was between 40 and 60 years old. It has been housed in the Museo del Prado in Madrid since 1939.\n\nAs so little is known of Bosch's life or intentions, interpretations of his intent have ranged from an admonition of worldly fleshy indulgence, to a dire warning on the perils of life's temptations, to an evocation of ultimate sexual joy. The intricacy of its symbolism, particularly that of the central panel, has led to a wide range of scholarly interpretations over the centuries. Twentieth-century art historians are divided as to whether the triptych's central panel is a moral warning or a panorama of paradise lost. Peter S. Beagle describes it as an \"erotic derangement that turns us all into voyeurs, a place filled with the intoxicating air of perfect liberty\".\n\nBosch painted three large triptychs (the others are \"The Last Judgment\" of c. 1482 and \"The Haywain Triptych\" of c. 1516) that can be read from left to right and in which each panel was essential to the meaning of the whole. Each of these three works presents distinct yet linked themes addressing history and faith. Triptychs from this period were generally intended to be read sequentially, the left and right panels often portraying Eden and the Last Judgment respectively, while the main subject was contained in the center piece. It is not known whether \"The Garden\" was intended as an altarpiece, but the general view is that the extreme subject matter of the inner center and right panels make it unlikely that it was intended to function in a church or monastery, but was instead commissioned by a lay patron.\n\nWhen the triptych's wings are closed, the design of the outer panels becomes visible. Rendered in a green–gray grisaille, these panels lack colour, probably because most Netherlandish triptychs were thus painted, but possibly indicating that the painting reflects a time before the creation of the sun and moon, which were formed, according to Christian theology, to \"give light to the earth\". The typical grisaille blandness of Netherlandish altarpieces served to highlight the splendid colour inside.\n\nThe outer panels are generally thought to depict the creation of the world, showing greenery beginning to clothe the still-pristine Earth. God, wearing a crown similar to a papal tiara (a common convention in Netherlandish painting), is visible as a tiny figure at the upper left. Bosch shows God as the father sitting with a Bible on his lap, creating the Earth in a passive manner by divine fiat. Above him is inscribed a quote from Psalm 33 reading \"Ipse dixit, et facta sunt: ipse mandāvit, et creāta sunt\"—\"For he spake and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast\". The Earth is encapsulated in a transparent sphere recalling the traditional depiction of the created world as a crystal sphere held by God or Christ. It hangs suspended in the cosmos, which is shown as an impermeable darkness, whose only other inhabitant is God himself.\n\nDespite the presence of vegetation, the earth does not yet contain human or animal life, indicating that the scene represents the events of the biblical Third Day. Bosch renders the plant life in an unusual fashion, using uniformly gray tints which make it difficult to determine whether the subjects are purely vegetable or perhaps include some mineral formations. Surrounding the interior of the globe is the sea, partially illuminated by beams of light shining through clouds. The exterior wings have a clear position within the sequential narrative of the work as a whole. They show an unpopulated earth composed solely of rock and plants, contrasting sharply with the inner central panel which contains a paradise teeming with lustful humanity.\n\nScholars have proposed that Bosch used the outer panels to establish a Biblical setting for the inner elements of the work, and the exterior image is generally interpreted as set in an earlier time than those in the interior. As with Bosch's \"Haywain\" triptych, the inner centerpiece is flanked by heavenly and hellish imagery. The scenes depicted in the triptych are thought to follow a chronological order: flowing from left-to-right they represent Eden, the garden of earthly delights, and Hell. God appears as the creator of humanity in the left hand wing, while the consequences of humanity's failure to follow his will are shown in the right.However, in contrast to Bosch's two other complete triptychs, \"The Last Judgment\" (around 1482) and \"The Haywain\" (after 1510), God is absent from the central panel. Instead, this panel shows humanity acting with apparent free will as naked men and women engage in various pleasure-seeking activities. According to some interpretations, the right hand panel is believed to show God's penalties in a hellscape.\n\nArt historian Charles de Tolnay believed that, through the seductive gaze of Adam, the left panel already shows God's waning influence upon the newly created earth. This view is reinforced by the rendering of God in the outer panels as a tiny figure in comparison to the immensity of the earth. According to Hans Belting, the three inner panels seek to broadly convey the Old Testament notion that, before the Fall, there was no defined boundary between good and evil; humanity in its innocence was unaware of consequence.\n\nThe left panel (sometimes known as the \"Joining of Adam and Eve\") depicts a scene from the paradise of the Garden of Eden commonly interpreted as the moment when God presents Eve to Adam. The painting shows Adam waking from a deep sleep to find God holding Eve by her wrist and giving the sign of his blessing to their union. God is younger-looking than on the outer panels, blue-eyed and with golden curls. His youthful appearance may be a device by the artist to illustrate the concept of Christ as the incarnation of the Word of God. God's right hand is raised in blessing, while he holds Eve's wrist with his left. According to the work's most controversial interpreter, the 20th-century folklorist and art historian Wilhelm Fraenger:\n\nAs though enjoying the pulsation of the living blood and as though too he were setting a seal on the eternal and immutable communion between this human blood and his own. This physical contact between the Creator and Eve is repeated even more noticeably in the way Adam's toes touch the Lord's foot. Here is the stressing of a rapport: Adam seems indeed to be stretching to his full length in order to make contact with the Creator. And the billowing out of the cloak around the Creator's heart, from where the garment falls in marked folds and contours to Adam's feet, also seems to indicate that here a current of divine power flows down, so that this group of three actually forms a closed circuit, a complex of magical energy ...\nEve avoids Adam's gaze, although, according to art historian Walter S. Gibson, she is shown \"seductively presenting her body to Adam\". Adam's expression is one of amazement, and Fraenger has identified three elements to his seeming astonishment. Firstly, there is surprise at the presence of the God. Secondly, he is reacting to an awareness that Eve is of the same nature as himself, and has been created from his own body. Finally, from the intensity of Adam's gaze, it can be concluded that he is experiencing sexual arousal and the primal urge to reproduce for the first time.\nThe surrounding landscape is populated by hut-shaped forms, some of which are made from stone, while others are at least partially organic. Behind Eve rabbits, symbolising fecundity, play in the grass, and a dragon tree opposite is thought to represent eternal life. The background reveals several animals that would have been exotic to contemporaneous Europeans, including a giraffe, an elephant, and a lion that has killed and is about to devour his prey. In the foreground, from a large hole in the ground, emerge birds and winged animals, some of which are realistic, some fantastic. Behind a fish, a person clothed in a short-sleeved hooded jacket and with a duck's beak holds an open book as if reading. To the left of the area a cat holds a small lizard-like creature in its jaws. Belting observes that, despite the fact that the creatures in the foreground are fantastical imaginings, many of the animals in the mid and background are drawn from contemporary travel literature, and here Bosch is appealing to \"the knowledge of a humanistic and aristocratic readership\". Erhard Reuwich's pictures for Bernhard von Breydenbach's 1486 \"Pilgrimages to the Holy Land\" were long thought to be the source for both the elephant and the giraffe, though more recent research indicates the mid-15th-century humanist scholar Cyriac of Ancona's travelogues served as Bosch's exposure to these exotic animals.\n\nAccording to art historian Virginia Tuttle, the scene is \"highly unconventional [and] cannot be identified as any of the events from the Book of Genesis traditionally depicted in Western art\". Some of the images contradict the innocence expected in the Garden of Eden. Tuttle and other critics have interpreted the gaze of Adam upon his wife as lustful, and indicative of the Christian belief that humanity was doomed from the beginning. Gibson believes that Adam's facial expression betrays not just surprise but also expectation. According to a belief common in the Middle Ages, before the Fall Adam and Eve would have copulated without lust, solely to reproduce. Many believed that the first sin committed after Eve tasted the forbidden fruit was carnal lust. On a tree to the right a snake curls around a tree trunk, while to its right a mouse creeps; according to Fraenger, both animals are universal phallic symbols.\n\nThe skyline of the center panel (220 × 195 cm, 87 × 77 in) matches exactly with that of the left wing, while the positioning of its central pool and the lake behind it echoes the lake in the earlier scene. The center image depicts the expansive \"garden\" landscape which gives the triptych its name. The panel shares a common horizon with the left wing, suggesting a spatial connection between the two scenes. The garden is teeming with male and female nudes, together with a variety of animals, plants and fruit. The setting is not the paradise shown in the left panel, but neither is it based in the terrestrial realm. Fantastic creatures mingle with the real; otherwise ordinary fruits appear engorged to a gigantic size. The figures are engaged in diverse amorous sports and activities, both in couples and in groups. Gibson describes them as behaving \"overtly and without shame\", while art historian Laurinda Dixon writes that the human figures exhibit \"a certain adolescent sexual curiosity\".\n\nMany of the numerous human figures revel in an innocent, self-absorbed joy as they engage in a wide range of activities; some appear to enjoy sensory pleasures, others play unselfconsciously in the water, and yet others cavort in meadows with a variety of animals, seemingly at one with nature. In the middle of the background, a large blue globe resembling a fruit pod rises in the middle of a lake. Visible through its circular window is a man holding his right hand close to his partner's genitals, and the bare buttocks of yet another figure hover in the vicinity. According to Fraenger, the eroticism of the center frame could be considered either as an allegory of spiritual transition or a playground of corruption.\n\nOn the right-hand side of the foreground stand a group of three fair and one black-skinned figures. The fair-skinned figures, two males and one female, are covered from head to foot in light-brown body hair. Scholars generally agree that these hirsute figures represent wild or primeval humanity but disagree on the symbolism of their inclusion. Art historian Patrik Reuterswärd, for example, posits that they may be seen as \"the noble savage\" who represents \"an imagined alternative to our civilized life\", imbuing the panel with \"a more clear-cut primitivistic note\". Writer Peter Glum, in contrast, sees the figures as intrinsically connected with whoredom and lust.\n\nIn a cave to their lower right, a male figure points towards a reclining female who is also covered in hair. The pointing man is the only clothed figure in the panel, and as Fraenger observes, \"he is clothed with emphatic austerity right up to his throat\". In addition, he is one of the few human figures with dark hair. According to Fraenger:\n\nThe way this man's dark hair grows, with the sharp dip in the middle of his high forehead, as though concentrating there all the energy of the masculine M, makes his face different from all the others. His coal-black eyes are rigidly focused in a gaze that expresses compelling force. The nose is unusually long and boldly curved. The mouth is wide and sensual, but the lips are firmly shut in a straight line, the corners strongly marked and tightened into final points, and this strengthens the impression—already suggested by the eyes—of a strong controlling will. It is an extraordinarily fascinating face, reminding us of faces of famous men, especially of Machiavelli's; and indeed the whole aspect of the head suggests something Mediterranean, as though this man had acquired his frank, searching, superior air at Italian academies.\n\nThe pointing man has variously been described as either the patron of the work (Fraenger in 1947), as an advocate of Adam denouncing Eve (Dirk Bax in 1956), as Saint John the Baptist in his camel's skin (Isabel Mateo Goméz in 1963), or as a self-portrait. The woman below him lies within a semicylindrical transparent shield, while her mouth is sealed, devices implying that she bears a secret. To their left, a man crowned by leaves lies on top of what appears to be an actual but gigantic strawberry, and is joined by a male and female who contemplate another equally huge strawberry.\n\nThere is no perspectival order in the foreground; instead it comprises a series of small motifs wherein proportion and terrestrial logic are abandoned. Bosch presents the viewer with gigantic ducks playing with tiny humans under the cover of oversized fruit; fish walking on land while birds dwell in the water; a passionate couple encased in an amniotic fluid bubble; and a man inside of a red fruit staring at a mouse in a transparent cylinder.\n\nThe pools in the fore and background contain bathers of both sexes. In the central circular pool, the sexes are mostly segregated, with several females adorned by peacocks and fruit. Four women carry cherry-like fruits on their heads, perhaps a symbol of pride at the time, as has been deduced from the contemporaneous saying: \"Don't eat cherries with great lords—they'll throw the pits in your face.\" The women are surrounded by a parade of naked men riding horses, donkeys, unicorns, camels and other exotic or fantastic creatures. Several men show acrobatics while riding, apparently acts designed to gain the females' attention, which highlights the attraction felt between the two sexes as groups. The two outer springs also contain both men and women cavorting with abandon. Around them, birds infest the water while winged fish crawl on land. Humans inhabit giant shells. All are surrounded by oversized fruit pods and eggshells, and both humans and animals feast on strawberries and cherries.\n\nThe impression of a life lived without consequence, or what art historian Hans Belting describes as \"unspoilt and pre-moral existence\", is underscored by the absence of children and old people. According to the second and third chapters of Genesis, Adam and Eve's children were born after they were expelled from Eden. This has led some commentators, in particular Belting, to theorise that the panel represents the world if the two had not been driven out \"among the thorns and thistles of the world\". In Fraenger's view, the scene illustrates \"a utopia, a garden of divine delight before the Fall, or—since Bosch could not deny the existence of the dogma of original sin—a millennial condition that would arise if, after expiation of Original Sin, humanity were permitted to return to Paradise and to a state of tranquil harmony embracing all Creation.\"\n\nIn the high distance of the background, above the hybrid stone formations, four groups of people and creatures are seen in flight. On the immediate left a human male rides on a chthonic solar eagle-lion. The human carries a triple-branched tree of life on which perches a bird; according to Fraenger \"a symbolic bird of death\". Fraenger believes the man is intended to represent a genius, \"he is the symbol of the extinction of the duality of the sexes, which are resolved in the ether into their original state of unity\". To their right a knight with a dolphin tail sails on a winged fish. The knight's tail curls back to touch the back of his head, which references the common symbol of eternity: the snake biting its own tail. On the immediate right of the panel, a winged youth soars upwards carrying a fish in his hands and a falcon on his back. According to Belting, in these passages Bosch's \"imagination triumphs ... the ambivalence of [his] visual syntax exceeds even the enigma of content, opening up that new dimension of freedom by which painting becomes art.\" Fraenger titled his chapter on the high background \"The Ascent to Heaven\", and wrote that the airborne figures were likely intended as a link between \"what is above\" and \"what is below\", just as the left and right hand panels represent \"what was\" and \"what will be\".\n\nThe right panel (220 × 97.5 cm, 87 × 38.4 in) illustrates Hell, the setting of a number of Bosch paintings. Bosch depicts a world in which humans have succumbed to temptations that lead to evil and reap eternal damnation. The tone of this final panel strikes a harsh contrast to those preceding it. The scene is set at night, and the natural beauty that adorned the earlier panels is noticeably absent. Compared to the warmth of the center panel, the right wing possesses a chilling quality—rendered through cold colourisation and frozen waterways—and presents a tableau that has shifted from the paradise of the center image to a spectacle of cruel torture and retribution. In a single, densely detailed scene, the viewer is made witness to cities on fire in the background; war, torture chambers, infernal taverns, and demons in the midground; and mutated animals feeding on human flesh in the foreground. The nakedness of the human figures has lost all its eroticism, and many now attempt to cover their genitalia and breasts with their hands, ashamed by their nakedness.\n\nLarge explosions in the background throw light through the city gates and spill into the water in the midground; according to writer Walter S. Gibson, \"their fiery reflection turning the water below into blood\". The light illuminates a road filled with fleeing figures, while hordes of tormentors prepare to burn a neighbouring village. A short distance away, a rabbit carries an impaled and bleeding corpse, while a group of victims above are thrown into a burning lantern. The foreground is populated by a variety of distressed or tortured figures. Some are shown vomiting or excreting, others are crucified by harp and lute, in an allegory of music, thus sharpening the contrast between pleasure and torture. A choir sings from a score inscribed on a pair of buttocks, part of a group that has been described as the \"Musicians' Hell\".\n\nThe focal point of the scene is the \"Tree-Man\", whose cavernous torso is supported by what could be contorted arms or rotting tree trunks. His head supports a disk populated by demons and victims parading around a huge set of bagpipes—often used as a dual sexual symbol—reminiscent of human scrotum and penis. The tree-man's torso is formed from a broken eggshell, and the supporting trunk has thorn-like branches which pierce the fragile body. A grey figure in a hood bearing an arrow jammed between his buttocks climbs a ladder into the tree-man's central cavity, where nude men sit in a tavern-like setting. The tree-man gazes outwards beyond the viewer, his conspiratorial expression a mix of wistfulness and resignation. Belting wondered if the tree-man's face is a self-portrait, citing the figure's \"expression of irony and the slightly sideways gaze [which would] then constitute the signature of an artist who claimed a bizarre pictorial world for his own personal imagination\".\n\nMany elements in the panel incorporate earlier iconographical conventions depicting hell. However, Bosch is innovative in that he describes hell not as a fantastical space, but as a realistic world containing many elements from day-to-day human life.\n\nAnimals are shown punishing humans, subjecting them to nightmarish torments that may symbolise the seven deadly sins, matching the torment to the sin. Sitting on an object that may be a toilet or a throne, the panel's centerpiece is a gigantic bird-headed monster feasting on human corpses, which he excretes through a cavity below him, into the transparent chamber pot on which he sits. The monster is sometimes referred to as the \"Prince of Hell\", a name derived from the cauldron he wears on his head, perhaps representing a debased crown. To his feet a female has her face reflected on the buttocks of a demon. Further to the left, next to a hare-headed demon, a group of naked persons around a toppled gambling table are being massacred with swords and knives. Other brutal violence is shown by a knight torn down and eaten up by a pack of wolves to the right of the tree-man.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, sexuality and lust were seen, by some, as evidence of humanity's fall from grace. In the eyes of some viewers, this sin is depicted in the left-hand panel through Adam's, allegedly lustful, gaze towards Eve, and it has been proposed that the center panel was created as a warning to the viewer to avoid a life of sinful pleasure. According to this view, the penalty for such sins is shown in the right panel of the triptych. In the lower right-hand corner, a man is approached by a pig wearing the veil of a nun. The pig is shown trying to seduce the man to sign legal documents. Lust is further said to be symbolised by the gigantic musical instruments and by the choral singers in the left foreground of the panel. Musical instruments often carried erotic connotations in works of art of the period, and lust was referred to in moralising sources as the \"music of the flesh\". There has also been the view that Bosch's use of music here might be a rebuke against traveling minstrels, often thought of as purveyors of bawdy song and verse.\n\nThe dating of \"The Garden of Earthly Delights\" is uncertain. Ludwig von Baldass (1917) considered the painting to be an early work by Bosch. However, since De Tolnay (1937) consensus among 20th-century art historians placed the work in 1503–1504 or even later. Both early and late datings were based on the \"archaic\" treatment of space. Dendrochronology dates the oak of the panels between the years 1460 and 1466, providing an earliest date (\"terminus post quem\") for the work. Wood used for panel paintings during this period customarily underwent a lengthy period of storage for seasoning purposes, so the age of the oak might be expected to predate the actual date of the painting by several years. Internal evidence, specifically the depiction of a pineapple (a \"New World\" fruit), suggests that the painting itself postdates Columbus' voyages to the Americas, between 1492 and 1504. The dendrochronological research brought Vermet to reconsider an early dating and, consequently, to dispute the presence of any \"New World\" objects, stressing the presence of African ones instead.\n\n\"The Garden\" was first documented in 1517, one year after the artist's death, when Antonio de Beatis, a canon from Molfetta, Italy, described the work as part of the decoration in the town palace of the Counts of the House of Nassau in Brussels. The palace was a high-profile location, a house often visited by heads of state and leading court figures. The prominence of the painting has led some to conclude that the work was commissioned, and not \"solely ... a flight of the imagination\". A description of the triptych in 1605 called it the \"strawberry painting\", because the fruit of the strawberry tree (\"madroño\" in Spanish) features prominently in the center panel. Early Spanish writers referred to the work as \"La Lujuria\" (\"Lust\").\n\nThe aristocracy of the Burgundian Netherlands, influenced by the humanist movement, were the most likely collectors of Bosch's paintings, but there are few records of the location of his works in the years immediately following his death. It is probable that the patron of the work was Engelbrecht II of Nassau, who died in 1504, or his successor Henry III of Nassau-Breda, the governor of several of the Habsburg provinces in the Low Countries. De Beatis wrote in his travel journal that \"there are some panels on which bizarre things have been painted. They represent seas, skies, woods, meadows, and many other things, such as people crawling out of a shell, others that bring forth birds, men and women, white and blacks doing all sorts of different activities and poses.\" Because the triptych was publicly displayed in the palace of the House of Nassau, it was visible to many, and Bosch's reputation and fame quickly spread across Europe. The work's popularity can be measured by the numerous surviving copies—in oil, engraving and tapestry—commissioned by wealthy patrons, as well as by the number of forgeries in circulation after his death. Most are of the central panel only and do not deviate from the original. These copies were usually painted on a much smaller scale, and they vary considerably in quality. Many were created a generation after Bosch, and some took the form of wall tapestries.\n\nThe De Beatis description, only rediscovered by Steppe in the 1960s, cast new light on the commissioning of a work that was previously thought—since it has no central religious image—to be an atypical altarpiece. Many Netherlandish diptychs intended for private use are known, and even a few triptychs, but the Bosch panels are unusually large compared with these and contain no donor portraits. Possibly they were commissioned to celebrate a wedding, as large Italian paintings for private houses frequently were. Nevertheless, \"The Garden\"s bold depictions do not rule out a church commission, such was the contemporaneous fervor to warn against immorality. In 1566, the triptych served as the model for a tapestry that hangs at El Escorial monastery near Madrid.\n\nUpon the death of Henry III, the painting passed into the hands of his nephew William the Silent, the founder of the House of Orange-Nassau and leader of the Dutch Revolt against Spain. In 1568, however, the Duke of Alba confiscated the picture and brought it to Spain, where it became the property of one Don Fernando, the Duke's illegitimate son and heir and the Spanish commander in the Netherlands. Phillip II acquired the painting at auction in 1591; two years later he presented it to El Escorial. A contemporaneous description of the transfer records the gift on 8 July 1593 of a \"painting in oils, with two wings depicting the variety of the world, illustrated with grotesqueries by Hieronymus Bosch, known as 'Del Madroño'\". After an unbroken 342 years at El Escorial, the work moved to the Museo del Prado in 1939, along with other works by Bosch. The triptych is not particularly well-preserved; the paint of the middle panel especially has flaked off around joints in the wood.\n\nLittle is known for certain of the life of Hieronymus Bosch or of the commissions or influences that may have formed the basis for the iconography of his work. His birthdate, education and patrons remain unknown. There is no surviving record of Bosch's thoughts or evidence as to what attracted and inspired him to such an individual mode of expression. Through the centuries art historians have struggled to resolve this question yet conclusions remain fragmentary at best. Scholars have debated Bosch's iconography more extensively than that of any other Netherlandish artist. His works are generally regarded as enigmatic, leading some to speculate that their content refers to contemporaneous esoteric knowledge since lost to history.\n\nAlthough Bosch's career flourished during the High Renaissance, he lived in an area where the beliefs of the medieval Church still held moral authority. He would have been familiar with some of the new forms of expression, especially those in Southern Europe, although it is difficult to attribute with certainty which artists, writers and conventions had a bearing on his work.\nJosé de Sigüenza is credited with the first extensive critique of \"The Garden of Earthly Delights\", in his 1605 \"History of the Order of St. Jerome\". He argued against dismissing the painting as either heretical or merely absurd, commenting that the panels \"are a satirical comment on the shame and sinfulness of mankind\". The art historian Carl Justi observed that the left and center panels are drenched in tropical and oceanic atmosphere, and concluded that Bosch was inspired by \"the news of recently discovered Atlantis and by drawings of its tropical scenery, just as Columbus himself, when approaching terra firma, thought that the place he had found at the mouth of the Orinoco was the site of the Earthly Paradise\". The period in which the triptych was created was a time of adventure and discovery, when tales and trophies from the New World sparked the imagination of poets, painters and writers. Although the triptych contains many unearthly and fantastic creatures, Bosch still appealed in his images and cultural references to an elite humanist and aristocratic audience. Bosch reproduces a scene from Martin Schongauer's engraving \"Flight into Egypt\".\n\nConquest in Africa and the East provided both wonder and terror to European intellectuals, as it led to the conclusion that Eden could never have been an actual geographical location. \"The Garden\" references exotic travel literature of the 15th century through the animals, including lions and a giraffe, in the left panel. The giraffe has been traced to Cyriac of Ancona, a travel writer known for his visits to Egypt during the 1440s. The exoticism of Cyriac's sumptuous manuscripts may have inspired Bosch's imagination.\n\nThe charting and conquest of this new world made real regions previously only idealised in the imagination of artists and poets. At the same time, the certainty of the old biblical paradise began to slip from the grasp of thinkers into the realms of mythology. In response, treatment of the Paradise in literature, poetry and art shifted towards a self-consciously fictional Utopian representation, as exemplified by the writings of Thomas More (1478–1535).\n\nAlbrecht Dürer was an avid student of exotic animals, and drew many sketches based on his visits to European zoos. Dürer visited 's-Hertogenbosch during Bosch's lifetime, and it is likely the two artists met, and that Bosch drew inspiration from the German's work.\n\nAttempts to find sources for the work in literature from the period have not been successful. Art historian Erwin Panofsky wrote in 1953 that, \"In spite of all the ingenious, erudite and in part extremely useful research devoted to the task of \"decoding Jerome Bosch\", I cannot help feeling that the real secret of his magnificent nightmares and daydreams has still to be disclosed. We have bored a few holes through the door of the locked room; but somehow we do not seem to have discovered the key.\" The humanist Desiderius Erasmus has been suggested as a possible influence; the writer lived in 's-Hertogenbosch in the 1480s, and it is likely he knew Bosch. Glum remarked on the triptych's similarity of tone with Erasmus's view that theologians \"explain (to suit themselves) the most difficult mysteries ... is it a possible proposition: God the Father hates the Son? Could God have assumed the form of a woman, a devil, an ass, a gourd, a stone?\"\n\nBecause only bare details are known of Bosch's life, interpretation of his work can be an extremely difficult area for academics as it is largely reliant on conjecture. Individual motifs and elements of symbolism may be explained, but so far relating these to each other and to his work as a whole has remained elusive. The enigmatic scenes depicted on the panels of the inner triptych of \"The Garden of Earthly Delights\" have been studied by many scholars, who have often arrived at contradictory interpretations. Analyses based on symbolic systems ranging from the alchemical, astrological, and heretical to the folkloric and subconscious have all attempted to explain the complex objects and ideas presented in the work. Until the early 20th century, Bosch's paintings were generally thought to incorporate attitudes of Medieval didactic literature and sermons. Charles De Tolnay wrote that,\nThe oldest writers, Dominicus Lampsonius and Karel van Mander, attached themselves to his most evident side, to the subject; their conception of Bosch, inventor of fantastic pieces of devilry and of infernal scenes, which prevails today (1937) in the public at large, and prevailed with historians until the last quarter of the 19th century.\n\nGenerally, his work is described as a warning against lust, and the central panel as a representation of the transience of worldly pleasure. In 1960, the art historian Ludwig von Baldass wrote that Bosch shows \"how sin came into the world through the Creation of Eve, how fleshly lusts spread over the entire earth, promoting all the Deadly Sins, and how this necessarily leads straight to Hell\". De Tolnay wrote that the center panel represents \"the nightmare of humanity\", where \"the artist's purpose above all is to show the evil consequences of sensual pleasure and to stress its ephemeral character\". Supporters of this view hold that the painting is a sequential narrative, depicting mankind's initial state of innocence in Eden, followed by the subsequent corruption of that innocence, and finally its punishment in Hell. At various times in its history, the triptych has been known as \"La Lujuria\", \"The Sins of the World\" and \"The Wages of Sin\".\n\nProponents of this idea point out that moralists during Bosch's era believed that it was woman's—ultimately Eve's—temptation that drew men into a life of lechery and sin. This would explain why the women in the center panel are very much among the active participants in bringing about the Fall. At the time, the power of femininity was often rendered by showing a female surrounded by a circle of males. A late 15th-century engraving by Israhel van Meckenem shows a group of men prancing ecstatically around a female figure. The Master of the Banderoles's 1460 work the \"Pool of Youth\" similarly shows a group of females standing in a space surrounded by admiring figures.\n\nThis line of reasoning is consistent with interpretations of Bosch's other major moralising works which hold up the folly of man; the \"Death and the Miser\" and the Haywain. Although each of these works is rendered in a manner, according to the art historian Walter Bosing, that it is difficult to believe \"Bosch intended to condemn what he painted with such visually enchanting forms and colors.\" Bosing concluded however that a medieval mindset was naturally suspicious of material beauty, in any form, and that the sumptuousness of Bosch's description may have been intended to convey a false paradise, teeming with transient beauty.\n\nIn 1947, Wilhelm Fränger argued that the triptych's center panel portrays a joyous world when mankind will experience a rebirth of the innocence enjoyed by Adam and Eve before their fall. In his book \"The Millennium of Hieronymus Bosch\", Fränger wrote that Bosch was a member of the heretical sect known as the Adamites—who were also known as the \"Homines intelligentia\" and Brethren and Sisters of the Free Spirit. This radical group, active in the area of the Rhine and the Netherlands, strove for a form of spirituality immune from sin even in the flesh and imbued the concept of lust with a paradisical innocence.\n\nFränger believed \"The Garden of Earthly Delights\" was commissioned by the order's Grand Master. Later critics have agreed that, because of their obscure complexity, Bosch's \"altarpieces\" may well have been commissioned for non-devotional purposes. The \"Homines intelligentia\" cult sought to regain the innocent sexuality enjoyed by Adam and Eve before the Fall. Fränger writes that the figures in Bosch's work \"are peacefully frolicking about the tranquil garden in vegetative innocence, at one with animals and plants and the sexuality that inspires them seems to be pure joy, pure bliss.\" Fränger argued against the notion that the hellscape shows the retribution handed down for sins committed in the center panel. Fränger saw the figures in the garden as peaceful, naive, and innocent in expressing their sexuality, and at one with nature. In contrast, those being punished in Hell comprise \"musicians, gamblers, desecrators of judgment and punishment\".\n\nExamining the symbolism in Bosch's art—\"the freakish riddles … the irresponsible phantasmagoria of an ecstatic\"—Fränger concluded that his interpretation applied to Bosch's three altarpieces only: \"The Garden of Earthly Delights\", \"Temptation of Saint Anthony\", and \"The Haywain Triptych\". Fränger distinguished these pieces from the artist's other works and argued that despite their anti-cleric polemic, they were nevertheless all altarpieces, probably commissioned for the devotional purposes of a mystery cult. While commentators accept Fränger's analysis as astute and broad in scope, they have often questioned his final conclusions. These are regarded by many scholars as hypothesis only, and built on an unstable foundation and what can only be conjecture. Critics argue that artists during this period painted not for their own pleasure but for commission, while the language and secularization of a post-Renaissance mind-set projected onto Bosch would have been alien to the late-Medieval painter.\n\nFränger's thesis stimulated others to examine \"The Garden\" more closely. Writer Carl Linfert also senses the joyfulness of the people in the center panel, but rejects Fränger's assertion that the painting is a \"doctrinaire\" work espousing the \"guiltless sexuality\" of the Adamite sect. While the figures engage in amorous acts without any suggestion of the forbidden, Linfert points to the elements in the center panel suggesting death and temporality: some figures turn away from the activity, seeming to lose hope in deriving pleasure from the passionate frolicking of their cohorts. Writing in 1969, E. H Gombrich drew on a close reading of Genesis and the Gospel According to Saint Matthew to suggest that the central panel is, according to Linfert, \"the state of mankind on the eve of the Flood, when men still pursued pleasure with no thought of the morrow, their only sin the unawareness of sin.\"\n\nBecause Bosch was such a unique and visionary artist, his influence has not spread as widely as that of other major painters of his era. However, there have been instances of later artists incorporating elements of \"The Garden of Earthly Delights\" into their own work. Pieter Bruegel the Elder (c. 1525–1569) in particular directly acknowledged Bosch as an important influence and inspiration, and incorporated many elements of the inner right panel into several of his most popular works. Bruegel's \"Mad Meg\" depicts a peasant woman leading an army of women to pillage Hell, while his \"The Triumph of Death\" (c. 1562) echoes the monstrous Hellscape of \"The Garden\", and utilizes, according to the Royal Museum of Fine Arts Antwerp, the same \"unbridled imagination and the fascinating colours\".\n\nWhile the Italian court painter Giuseppe Arcimboldo () did not create Hellscapes, he painted a body of strange and \"fantastic\" vegetable portraits—generally heads of people composed of plants, roots, webs and various other organic matter. These strange portraits rely on and echo a motif that was in part inspired by Bosch's willingness to break from strict and faithful representations of nature.\n\nDavid Teniers the Younger () was a Flemish painter who quoted both Bosch and Bruegel throughout his career in such works as his versions of the \"Temptation of St Anthony\", the \"Rich Man in Hell\" and his version of \"Mad Meg\".\n\nDuring the early 20th century, Bosch's work enjoyed a popular resurrection. The early surrealists' fascination with dreamscapes, the autonomy of the imagination, and a free-flowing connection to the unconscious brought about a renewed interest in his work. Bosch's imagery struck a chord with Joan Miró and Salvador Dalí in particular. Both knew his paintings firsthand, having seen \"The Garden of Earthly Delights\" in the Museo del Prado, and both regarded him as an art-historical mentor. Miró's \"The Tilled Field\" contains several parallels to Bosch's \"Garden\": similar flocks of birds; pools from which living creatures emerge; and oversize disembodied ears all echo the Dutch master's work. Dalí's 1929 \"The Great Masturbator\" is similar to an image on the right side of the left panel of Bosch's \"Garden\", composed of rocks, bushes and little animals resembling a face with a prominent nose and long eyelashes.\n\nWhen André Breton wrote his first Surrealist Manifesto in 1924, his historical precedents as inclusions named only Gustave Moreau, Georges Seurat and Uccello. However, the Surrealist movement soon rediscovered Bosch and Breughel, who quickly became popular among the Surrealist painters. René Magritte and Max Ernst both were inspired by Bosch's \"The Garden of Earthly Delights\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22066992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22066992", "title": "The Great Led Zeppelin Wine Pairing", "text": "The Great Led Zeppelin Wine Pairing\n\nThe Great Led Zeppelin Wine Pairing is a series of “wine and music pairings,” created by noted restaurateur and viticulturist Joe Bastianich and writer-musician Mike Edison, along with writer and wine expert David Lynch. Bastianich and Lynch are both recipients of the James Beard Award.\n\nThe idea was formed when Bastianich and Edison were pondering how to pair the songs of Led Zeppelin with various wines.\n\n\"Our passion for wine is only rivaled by our passion for Zeppelin,” said Bastianich, and encouraged attendees to \"taste with their ears and listen with their mouths.\"\n\nEdison, in an interview with publishing blog Galley Cat, said, \"Either you see this as a hyper-intellectual exercise in promoting the lexicon of oenology as a valid critical system while simultaneously subverting it and subjecting it to ridicule—or you think it is just some dudes who want to drink some really good wine and listen to Led Zeppelin. No matter what, it is still going be the best salon since Dorothy Parker made that crack about horticulture.”\n\nEdison has explained that “Zep is the perfect band to pair with wine—maybe the only band. They have all the right qualities: They can be earthy and intense, or dark and mellow, or just insanely huge. They've got some very real, edgy twang, and some rich, complex textures. They embrace both the Old World and the New. I can't think of any other band that shows so much depth and development, both within individual songs and across entire records,” adding, that the wine pairings were both “freakishly sophisticated and patently absurd.”\n\nThe first Great Led Zeppelin Wine Pairing was held at Becco restaurant in New York City on March 17, 2009, and received excellent reviews and widespread media attention. The New York Post reported, “Guests at Tuesday night's first-ever Great Led Zeppelin Wine Tasting were an odd combo of wine fans and Zep heads but it didn't take many samplings for everyone to start feeling a whole lotta love.”\n\nThe menu, created by chef Billy Gallagher, featured six courses, each paired with wine and select Led Zeppelin songs, as follows:\n\n~Antipasto~\n\n“The Song Remains the Same”\n\nGrilled Calamari & Dandelion Salad with Hard-Boiled Egg\n\nChampagne 1er Cru Vertus NV, Guy Larmandier (France)\nGruner Veltliner Smaragd Terrassen 2007,\nDomane Wachan (Austria)\n\n~Primi~\n\n“Going to California”\n\nPappardelle with Wild Mushroom Ragu\n\nPinot Noir Knox Alexander 2006, Au Bon Climat (California)\n\n“Black Dog”\n\nBlack Spaghetti Arribiata with Sautéed Shrimp\n\nMalbec 2005, Tritono (Argentina)\n\n~Secondi~\n\n“Kashmir”, “Whole Lotta Love”\n\nBistecca alla Becco\n\nBlack Angus Rib-Eye Steak grilled Medium-Rare with Garlic Mashed Potatoes & Sauteed Broccoli Rabe\n\nBarolo Vigne Rionda 2000, Oddero (Italy)\n\n~Dolci~\n\n“Tangerine”\n\nFarm Fresh Tangerines\n\nMoscato d’Asti 2008, Vietti (Italy)\n\n“Custard Pie”\n\nVanilla Custard Pie & Led Zeppolini\n\nThe second Great Led Zeppelin Wine Tasting was held at City Winery in New York City and featured the Led Zeppelin Tribute band Six Foot Nurse performing live with special guest Scott Ian from the band Anthrax. More events are expected, including one in Las Vegas in May 2010. <-- did this take place? -->\n\nJoe Bastianich: “I think because of the sheer complexity and the deep roots of the music—where the music comes from, and how profound it is— Led Zeppelin's music can only really be paralleled with the kind of evolution, importance and complexity of wine, as both a cultural thing as well as a beverage.”\n\nMike Edison: “Back when I was in seminary school, attempting to pair Boones Farm apple wine with \"Stairway to Heaven\" and having disastrous results, I stumbled upon this little theory: \"Led Zeppelin IV\" is the record that when you're stoned and listening to it really loud you think the phone is ringing when it's really not. ’Black Dog’ is like a fully fucking awesome motherfucker—this is when they got really heavy.”\n\nDavid Lynch (referring to the “Black Dog” pairing): We're bringing the thunder. We're bringing the tannin. We're bringing the viscosity. We're coming at you with guns blazing, with a Malbec from Argentina.\n\n"}
{"id": "560914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=560914", "title": "The Madonna of Port Lligat", "text": "The Madonna of Port Lligat\n\nThe Madonna of Port Lligat is the name of two paintings by Salvador Dalí. The first was created in 1949, measuring 49 x 37.5 centimetres (19.3 x 14.8 in), and is housed in the Haggerty Museum of Art at Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA. Dalí submitted it to Pope Pius XII for approval, which was granted. Dalí created a second painting in 1950 with the same title and same themes, with various poses and details changed, measuring 275.3 x 209.8 centimetres (108.4 x 82.6 in); The 1950 Madonna is exhibited at the Nagasaki Prefectural Art Museum in Japan.\n\nThe paintings depict a seated Madonna (posed by Dalí's wife, Gala) with the infant Christ on her lap. Both figures have rectangular holes cut into their torsos, suggestive of their transcendent status. In the 1950 version Christ has bread at the center of his figure. They are posed in a landscape, with features of the coast of Port Lligat, Catalonia, in the background, with surrealist details including nails, fish, seashells, and an egg. The 1949 Madonna has a sea urchin; the 1950 Madonna has a rhinoceros and figures of angels, also posed by Gala.\n\nA poem and book based on the painting, \"The Virgin of Port Lligat\" by Fray Angelico Chavez, was selected as one of the best books of 1959 by the Catholic Library Association.\n\nIn Larry Niven's novel \"Protector\", one of the main characters has this painting on their spacesuit.\n\n"}
{"id": "5186927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5186927", "title": "The Soup Nazi", "text": "The Soup Nazi\n\n\"The Soup Nazi\" is the 116th episode of the NBC sitcom \"Seinfeld\", which was the sixth episode of the seventh season. It first aired in the United States on November 2, 1995.\n\nThe Soup Nazi is also the nickname of the eponymous character, Yev Kassem, played by Larry Thomas. The term \"Nazi\" is used as an exaggeration of the excessively strict regimentation he constantly demands of his patrons (cf. \"Grammar Nazi\").\n\nJerry, George and Elaine visit a new soup stand Kramer has been praising. Jerry explains that the owner, Yev Kassem, is known as the \"Soup Nazi\" due to his temperament and insistence on a strict manner of behavior while placing an order.\n\nAt the soup stand, George tells Kassem that he didn't receive any bread with his order. Kassem says bread is two dollars extra, even though George rightfully points out that the other customers received free bread, at which Kassem spitefully pushes the price up to three dollars. When George complains again, Kassem decrees \"No soup for you!\" George's order is quickly taken away and his money returned.\n\nEn route to the soup stand with Jerry and George, Elaine notices a guy on the sidewalk with a giant armoire for sale. She decides to forgo the soup in favor of buying the armoire. However, her building superintendent informs her that furniture move-ins are not allowed on Sundays, so she asks Kramer to watch the armoire and promises to get soup from Kassem for him in return.\n\nOn a subsequent visit, George successfully manages to buy soup (bread came with it this time), but Elaine, having ignored Jerry's advice on how to order, quickly draws Kassem's ire and she is banned for a year. During this time, two thieves (Bob and Cedric) intimidate Kramer and steal the armoire.\n\nLater, Jerry and his current girlfriend Sheila (Alexandra Wentworth) visit the soup stand. Kassem is repulsed by their public displays of affection, so Jerry disavows knowing Sheila to stay on Kassem's good side. Jerry talks about the situation with George, who has expressed disgust at Jerry's \"baby talk\". Jerry admits he behaved facetiously with Sheila at the soup stand and vows to redeem himself. George considers this and begins to behave similarly with Susan to express his disgust, but Susan instead takes this as a sign of George expressing their love in public.\n\nSome time later, Kramer, who has befriended Kassem, tells him about the armoire theft. Kassem offers him an antique armoire he has in storage as a replacement. Elaine is elated, and goes to Kassem to thank him. When Kassem learns the armoire was for Elaine, he says he would have rather destroyed it than give it to her. Upset, Elaine returns to her apartment with Jerry, where they discover the armoire is filled with Kassem's soup recipes. Elaine returns to the soup stand and confronts Kassem with the recipes, intent on ruining his business in revenge for mistreating her.\n\nJerry encounters Newman, who is running to get a pot from his apartment. Newman tells him that because of what Elaine said to Kassem, he is closing down his stand and returning to Argentina and giving away whatever soup he has left. Jerry quickly runs home to follow Newman's lead.\n\n\"The Soup Nazi\" was Spike Feresten's first credited \"Seinfeld\" episode as a writer. The idea for the episode arose when Feresten told Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David about New York soup vendor Al Yeganeh, who was nicknamed \"The Soup Nazi.\" Seinfeld and David laughed and said, \"That's a show. Do that as your first show.\" Feresten's inspiration for the armoire subplot was a New York apartment building where he had lived, which forbade moving furniture on certain days. The armoire thieves were written as homosexual because Larry David decided that, \"Only gay guys would steal an armoire.\"\n\nThe first cast table reading for \"The Soup Nazi\" was held on September 28, 1995, and it was filmed before a studio audience on October 3. In the episode, Elaine (Julia Louis-Dreyfus) imitates Al Pacino in \"Scent of a Woman\". This was done at Jerry Seinfeld's suggestion, even though Louis-Dreyfus had never seen the film.\n\nThe Soup Nazi was portrayed by Larry Thomas, who was nominated for a 1996 Emmy for the role. Thomas, who did not realize that the character was based on a real person, received the inspiration for his portrayal from watching \"Lawrence of Arabia\" and studying Omar Sharif's accent.\n\nA stone-faced immigrant chef with a thick Stalin-esque moustache, he is renowned throughout Manhattan for his soups. He demands that all customers in his restaurant meticulously follow his strict queuing, ordering, and payment policies. Failure to adhere to his demands brings the stern admonition (\"No soup for you!\"), whereupon the customer is refunded and denied his or her order. He then yells to the next person in line, \"Next!\" Elaine parodies this when she reveals that she has his recipes. She says to him, \"You're through, Soup Nazi. Pack it up. No more soup for you. NEXT!\"\n\nThe Soup Nazi has a cameo in the \"Seinfeld\" series finale, in which his true name is revealed, but which he refuses to spell when asked by District Attorney Hoyt. He is the penultimate witness in the case against Seinfeld, Elaine, George and Kramer, before Babu Bhatt. He tells Hoyt about how he banned Elaine from his shop, only for her to return and ruin his business, forcing him to move to Argentina. Elaine angers him by smugly claiming, \"His soup wasn't all that good anyway.\" During the recess, he is seen serving soup to Robin, Mr. Lipman, Poppie and Babu, all of whom enjoy it. Poppie appears to ask for salt with his soup, whereupon Kassem takes his soup away. He is present and obviously satisfied when Jerry, Elaine, George and Kramer are found guilty and sent to prison.\n\nThe character was inspired by Ali \"Al\" Yeganeh, a Persian soup vendor who ran Soup Kitchen International in New York City. Yeganeh has stated on numerous occasions that he is very offended by the \"Soup Nazi\" moniker.\n\nAccording to writer Spike Feresten, Jerry Seinfeld and several members of the production team went to Soup Kitchen International for lunch weeks after \"The Soup Nazi\" aired. Upon recognizing Seinfeld, Yeganeh went into a profanity-filled rant about how the show had \"ruined\" his business and demanded an apology. Seinfeld allegedly gave what Feresten describes as \"the most insincere, sarcastic apology ever given\". Obviously having seen the episode, Yeganeh then bellowed, \"No soup for you!\" and ejected them from the restaurant.\n\nAccording to Nora Ephron's DVD commentary, the first pop culture reference to Yeganeh (though not by name) seems to have come years before the \"Seinfeld\" episode, in the 1993 movie \"Sleepless in Seattle\". In the film, a character playing a writer pitches a story for the lifestyle section of the publication to their editor: \"This man sells the greatest soup you have ever eaten, and he is the meanest man in America. I feel very strongly about this, Becky; it's not just about the soup.\"\n\nLike Jackie Chiles, the Soup Nazi character (played by Thomas) has appeared in commercials after the end of the series.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20037985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20037985", "title": "Theatro Lyrico Fluminense", "text": "Theatro Lyrico Fluminense\n\nThe Theatro Lyrico Fluminense (also spelled as Teatro Lírico Fluminense) was one of the main theatres in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, during the mid-19th century and was for many years the primary theatre for opera performances in that city. It was demolished on 30 April 1875 to make way for a park. \n\nWhen the Theatro São Pedro de Alcântara burned down in 1851, Rio de Janeiro was left without a theatre big enough to host the touring European opera, theatre and dance companies that had been performing in the city since the late 1820s. The city decided to build a new theatre as a matter of urgency. The theatre was originally intended to last for only three years, until the Theatro São Pedro de Alcântara could be rebuilt. Its construction was entrusted to a relatively inexperienced contractor, Vicente Rodrigues, and work began on 29 September 1851. Initially called the Theatro Provisório (the Provisional Theatre), it was completed six months later. The contractor held a masked ball there on 21 February 1852, and on 25 March 1852, the theatre was officially inaugurated with a performance of Verdi's \"Macbeth\". \n\nBy 1854 the Theatro São Pedro de Alcântara had been rebuilt, but it was decided to keep the Theatro Provisório as well. As the theatre was no longer \"provisional\", it was officially renamed the Theatro Lyrico Fluminense on 19 May 1854, celebrating with a performance of Verdi's \"Ernani\". For the next twenty years it was the leading opera house in Rio. The first two operas by Brazil's most famous opera composer, Antônio Carlos Gomes were premiered at the theatre - \"A noite do castelo\" (1861) and \"Joana de Flandres\" (1862). In 1871, the theatre saw the Brazilian premiere of Gomes' most famous work, \"Il Guarany\". In addition to its opera season, the theatre also put on plays and concerts with appearances by performers such as Adelaide Ristori and Sigismond Thalberg.\n\nLocated in the Campo da Aclamação, the theatre had a simple neoclassical facade. Its rose painted interior was more elaborate. The ceiling was decorated with portrait medallions honouring various composers and dramatists including Auber, Donizetti, Verdi, Bellini, Meyerbeer, Schiller, and Servandoni. In the center was Rossini surrounded by palm leaves and a laurel wreath. The arena section provided seating for 830 men (514 in seats, and 316 on benches). Seating for women and their escorts was provided by four tiers of boxes built of pine wood. However, the theatre's rapid and faulty construction led to many problems, not the least of which was the fear that it could collapse at any moment. There were also complaints about the poor acoustics and the ever-present dust that plagued the interior. The theatre was remodelled in 1865 when French tapestries and wallpaper, a ceiling fresco, and gas lighting were added. \n\nIts demise began with the inauguration of the more magnificent Theatro Dom Pedro II in 1871. The Theatro Dom Pedro had better acoustics, a slightly larger seating capacity, and was located in a more fashionable street. The Theatro Lyrico Fluminense gradually went into decline and was demolished on 30 April 1875 to make way for a park.\n\n"}
{"id": "3018720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3018720", "title": "Theodor Lipps", "text": "Theodor Lipps\n\nTheodor Lipps (; 28 July 1851 – 17 October 1914) was a German philosopher, famed for his theory regarding aesthetics, creating the framework for the concept of \"Einfühlung\" (empathy)\",\" defined as, \"projecting oneself onto the object of perception.\" This has then led onto opening up a new branch of interdisciplinary research in the overlap between psychology and philosophy. \n\nLipps was one of the most influential German university professors of his time, attracting many students from other countries. Lipps was very concerned with conceptions of art and the aesthetic, focusing much of his philosophy around such issues. Among his fervent admirers was Sigmund Freud. Lipps then being the main supporter of the idea of the Unconscious. He adopted Robert Vischer's notions of empathy or esthetic sympathy (\"Einfühlung\", literally translated to \"feeling-into\"). This concept of aesthetic resonance finds parallels throughout aesthetic philosophy. Late in life, Lipps adopted some ideas from Edmund Husserl. Disliking his psychologism, some of his students joined with some of Husserl's to form a new branch of philosophy called phenomenology of essences. Among them there was Moritz Geiger who wrote one of the first phenomenological essays on the essence and meaning of empathy in which the influence of Lipps is relevant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39784266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39784266", "title": "West Fork Conservancy", "text": "West Fork Conservancy\n\nThe West Fork Conservancy is a 501(c)3 non-profit volunteer organization which collects, bags, and hauls trash and human waste out of the San Gabriel River located within the Angeles National Forest of the San Gabriel Mountains. The Conservancy also removes Graffiti, assists in extinguishing illegal camp fires and cooking fires, and performs whatever other tasks that the United States Forest Service requests of the organization.\n\nThe Forest Service provides the organization with annual safety training and safety oversight, assisting the Conservancy with some of the needed materials and equipment needed to collect, haul, and remove tonnes of garbage left within the West Fork canyon along the river, however the Conservancy volunteers themselves rely upon donations from the general public and upon the charitable purchasing of materials from their own members.\n\nThe Conservancy adds a \"uniformed presence\" which increases compliance for serious safety threats to the forest (such as agreeing to extinguish illegal ground fires and refraining from killing wildlife) by wearing the U. S. Forest Service volunteer uniform which assists to show the recreating public that the public lands remanded to the Forest Service for administration are being maintained despite a decade of extensive budget cuts\n\nThe West Fork Conservancy was created in 2009 by local citizens who liked to do Fly fishing within the West Fork of the San Gabriel River and found a growing need for unpaid volunteers to lend a hand cleaning up and removing the increasing amounts of pollution and addressing other serious problems caused by over 22.6 million citizens who live within Southern California, over 1.6 million of which recreate in the Angeles National Forest.\n\nThe West Fork Conservancy also provides children and adults with environmental education as part of the Conservancy's commitment to improving the health of the West Fork and for the health of the drinking water which deposits in to the San Gabriel Watershed which millions of citizens in Southern California rely upon for drinking, irrigation of farm lands, and for industry.\n\nAs part of the Conservancy's patrol along the West Fork of the San Gabriel River the organization engages the general public, discussing environmental issues, safety issues, in addition to assisting the recreating public when there are medical issues, Domestic violence, inebriation, and other safety problems that adversely impact individuals as well as impact the health and safety of the forest and its watershed.\n\nWest Fork Conservancy, 114 North Glendora Avenue, Suite 183, Glendora, California, 91741\n\n"}
