{"id": "43985198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43985198", "title": "Aaloka Buddhist Center", "text": "Aaloka Buddhist Center\n\nAaloka Buddhist Center is a Sri Lankan Buddhist center in Singapore. The present premises are located at 11 Lorong 22 Geylang, Singapore.\n\nAaloka Buddhist Center was founded as a theravadin Buddhist entity in Singapore by Ven Dr Kotawila Sri Pemaloka Thera. Also the abott, Kotawila graduated from Lancaster University with a Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Religious Study, and has published several books including \"My Journey\", \"The ancient Maha Vihara Tradition\", \"The Gems of Buddhist Meditation\" and \"The Buddhist Child\". Regular events include Buddhist services, kathina, Sunday dhamma classes and sutta chanting.\n\n"}
{"id": "15719796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15719796", "title": "Aksharaabhyaasam", "text": "Aksharaabhyaasam\n\nAksharaaabhyasam or Akshara abhyaasam or Vidyaarambham is a traditional religious function in which the child is given initiation of education so that the child is ready to receive formal education. This ritual involves Goddess Saraswati puja.\n\nThis ritual very common in Hindu families of Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Akshara means 'letters / alphabets' and Abhyasam means 'practice'. Together they mean \"the study of practical letters\". The ceremony is performed by the maternal uncle (Mothers brothers)/ Father/ Paternal Uncle along with the family keeping the child in his lap holding the child’s right hand forefinger and make the child write the Om followed by the panchaakshari mantra 'Namah Shivayaah'. In kerala Om Harisree Ganapathaye Namah mantra is used. \n\nOm symbol which is treated as a Beejaakshar (Beeja in Sanskrit means the origin). Gnana Saraswati Temple in Basar, Telangana is a popular temple where such ceremonies are held in large numbers.\n\n\n Basara Temple\n"}
{"id": "1596294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1596294", "title": "Alastor, or The Spirit of Solitude", "text": "Alastor, or The Spirit of Solitude\n\nAlastor, or The Spirit of Solitude is a poem by Percy Bysshe Shelley, written from 10 September to 14 December in 1815 in Bishopsgate, London and first published in 1816. The poem was without a title when Shelley passed it along to his contemporary and friend, Thomas Love Peacock. The poem is 720 lines long. It is considered to be one of the first of Shelley's major poems.\n\nPeacock suggested the name Alastor which comes from Roman mythology. Peacock has defined Alastor as \"evil genius.\" The name does not refer to the hero or Poet of the poem, however, but instead to the spirit who divinely animates the Poet's imagination.\n\nIn \"Alastor\" the speaker ostensibly recounts the life of a Poet who zealously pursues the most obscure part of nature in search of \"strange truths in undiscovered lands\", journeying to the Caucasus Mountains (\"the ethereal cliffs of Caucasus\"), Persia, \"Arabie\", Cashmire, and \"the wild Carmanian waste\". The Poet rejects an \"Arab maiden\" in his search for an idealised embodiment of a woman. As the Poet wanders one night, he dreams of a \"veiled maid\". This veiled vision brings with her an intimation of the supernatural world that lies beyond nature. This dream vision serves as a mediator between the natural and supernatural domains by being both spirit and an element of human love. As the Poet attempts to unite with the spirit, night's blackness swallows the vision and severs his dreamy link to the supernatural.\n\nOnce touched by the maddening hand of the supernatural, the Poet restlessly searches for a reconciliation with his lost vision. Though his imagination craves a reunion with the infinite, it too is ultimately anchored to the perceptions of the natural world.\n\nRuminating on thoughts of death as the possible next step beyond dream to the supernatural world he tasted, the Poet notices a small boat (\"little shallop\") floating down a nearby river. Passively, he sits in the boat furiously being driven down the river by a smooth wave. Deeper and deeper into the very source of the natural world he rushes. Like the water's surface supports the boat, the supernatural world \"cradles\" the mutability both of nature and of man.\n\nAs his senses are literally dulled, his imagination helps him sense the spirit's supernatural presence. Instead of perceiving the vision through the senses, the Poet imaginatively observes her in the dying images of the passing objects of nature. The boat flows onward to an \"immeasurable void\" and the Poet finds himself ready to sink into the supernatural world and break through the threshold into death.\n\nWhen the Poet reaches the \"obscurest chasm,\" his last sight is of the moon. As that image fades from the Poet's mind, he has finally attained transcendence to the supernatural world. The journey to the very source of nature led, finally, to an immanence within nature's very structure and to a world free of decay and change.\n\nThe work was first published in London in 1816 (see 1816 in poetry) under the title \"Alastor; or, The Spirit of Solitude: And Other Poems\", printed for Baldwin, Cradock, and Joy, Pater-Noster Row; and Carpenter and Son, Old Bond-Street: by S. Hamilton, Weybridge, Surrey, consisting of the title poem and the following additional poems:\n\n\nThe epigraph to the poem is from St. Augustine's \"Confessions\", III, i, written between 397 and 398 AD:\n\nThe English translation of the Latin is: \"I was not yet in love, and I loved to be in love, I sought what I might love, in love with loving.\"\n\nShelley also quotes from William Wordsworth's \"The Excursion\" (1814) the lines, \"The good die first,/ And they whose hearts are dry as summer dust / Burn to the socket!\" The line \"It is a woe 'too deep for tears'\" is a quote from Wordsworth's \"Ode: Intimations of Immortality\".\n\nEight lines from the poem \"Mutability\" are quoted in \"Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus\" (1818) in the scene when Victor Frankenstein climbs Montanvert in the Swiss Alps:\n\nReviews were initially negative when \"Alastor\" was published in 1816. John Gibson Lockhart of \"Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine\" wrote the first major positive review in the November 1819 issue. Lockhart wrote that Shelley is \"a man of genius... Mr. Shelley is a poet, almost in the very highest sense of that mysterious word.\"\n\nLeigh Hunt praised \"Alastor\" in the December 1816 issue of \"The Examiner\".\n\nThe poem was attacked by contemporary critics for its \"obscurity\". In a review in \"The Monthly Review\" for April 1816, the critic wrote: \"We must candidly own that these poems are beyond our comprehension; and we did not obtain a clue to their sublime obscurity, till an address to Mr. Wordsworth explained in what school the author had formed his taste.\" In the \"Eclectic Review\" for October 1816, Josiah Condor wrote:\n\n\"We fear that not even this commentary [Shelley's Preface], will enable ordinary readers to decipher the import of the greater part of Mr. Shelley's allegory. All is wild and specious,intangible and incoherent as a dream. We should be utterly at a loss to convey any distinct idea of the plan or purpose of the poem.\"\n\nIn \"The British Critic\" for May 1816, the reviewer dismissed the work as \"the madness of a poetic mind.\"\n\nMary Shelley, in her note on the work, wrote: \"None of Shelley's poems is more characteristic than this.\" In the spring of 1815, Shelley had been erroneously diagnosed as suffering from consumption. Shelley suffered from spasms and there were abscesses in his lungs. He made a full recovery but the shock of imminent death is reflected in the work. Mary Shelley noted that the work \"was the outpouring of his own emotions, embodied in the purest form he could conceive, painted in the ideal hues which his brilliant imagination inspired, and softened by the recent anticipation of death.\"\n\nIn his biography of John Keats, Sidney Colvin wrote on the influence of \"Alastor\" on Keats' \"Endymion\": \"It is certain that Keats read and was impressed by \"Alastor\".\"\n\n\"Alastor\" influenced the poetry of William Butler Yeats, whose own work \"The Wanderings of Oisin\" was influenced by the Shelley poem.\n\nCritics have spent a great deal of effort attempting to identify the Poet. The most convincing possibility is William Wordsworth, since the poem is framed with direct quotations from Wordsworth's poetry, and Shelley had a deeply ambivalent reaction to Wordsworth's poetry, as witnessed in his sonnet \"To Wordsworth.\"\n\nIn 1912, Russian composer Nikolai Myaskovsky wrote his symphonic poem \"Alastor, Poème d'après Shelley\" (Op. 14) based on Shelley's work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55935462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55935462", "title": "Alden (The Walking Dead)", "text": "Alden (The Walking Dead)\n\nAlden is a fictional character from AMC's horror drama series \"The Walking Dead\", who first appeared in the eighth season as a recurring character. He is described as a sexy, blue-collar twentysomething whose survival skills include sarcasm.\n\nIn the episode \"The Damned\", while in a battle, Alden is one of the Saviors attempting to flee the Satellite Outpost, but is forced to surrender to the Militia remarking that \"living sounds good\" after being surrounded. He encourages his fellow Saviors to surrender as well. He is chained with several other Saviors in the episode \"Monsters\" and being transported to the Hilltop Colony. On their way a walker attack occurred. His fellow Savoirs who are chained together with him attend to flee in the panic, but he refuses and reminds them that the Militia has guns handy they don't. After successfully being brought to the Hilltop in the episode \"The King, the Widow, and Rick\", he asks Jesus what the colonists of the Hilltop are building inside. He is then imprisoned with the other Saviors and Gregory. He then stops Jared, a Savior who has tried to flee several times before, from escaping because he doesn't want any trouble. In the mid-season finale, \"How It's Gotta Be\", he begs to Maggie that she would spare Dean, a fellow inmate. Shortly after, Alden, in horror, witnesses Maggie execute Dean in cold blood.\n\nIn the episode \"Dead or Alive Or\", he suggests an agreement to Maggie that the prisoners be allowed to alternately go out supervised for a short period of time. At first she refuses, but eventually agrees. In the episode \"Do Not Send Us Astray\", Maggie threatens to kill all of the prisoners if Simon, the de facto leader of the Saviors, doesn't stop an attack on Hilltop. However Simon starts the attack without thinking about the welfare of the prisoners. Alden asks if he can help, but Maggie sends him back to the others inside. After the battle Alden buries the corpses of the fallen Saviors, stating that he doesn't think about them as his people anymore. On the following night, Henry arrives at the prison and threatens to kill all of the prisoners if the murderer of his brother doesn't show himself. Alden tries to talk Henry down and reveals that he also had a brother who has been killed, explaining through his own experiences that revenge won't help him. While they're talking, a wounded prisoner reanimates and kills two others, making Henry open the gate. In the panic, Jared is able to overpower Henry and escapes with some of the prisoners. Alden and several other prisoners however stay and try to close the main gate against a walker herd drawn by the gunfire. Alden then saves Siddiq from a walker, killing it with a shovel. Maggie and others arrive and hold Alden at gunpoint, asking him what happened. Alden explains that he and the other remaining prisoners don't know where the escapees went, but that they will stay and help despite the fact that they no longer have any strategic value to the Militia. Maggie appears to accept Alden's explanation.\n\nFollowing the attack, Alden and the other former Savior prisoners are set free though they are not fully trusted and are not allowed to join the Militia. In \"Still Gotta Mean Something,\" Rick approaches Alden for anything he knows about where the escaped prisoners may have gone. Alden suggests an old dive bar located between the Hilltop and the Sanctuary that Alden once scouted out for the Saviors as a potential outpost. Alden asks Rick to only kill who he needs to kill and to give the other Saviors, who Alden believes are just scared, a chance to join up with them as Alden's group did. When Rick returns with Morgan, Alden is sitting by the fire with Dianne and realizes that Rick killed all of the Saviors despite Alden's request.\n\nIn \"Wrath,\" Alden and the other defected Savior prisoners volunteer for a mission to lead the walker herd that was drawn by the battle in \"Do Not Send Us Astray\" away from the Hilltop, an offer that is accepted. After they return, Alden is briefly accosted by Morgan Jones who was unaware of his mission. During the evacuation of the Hilltop, Alden chooses to stay behind with Tara to face the attacking Saviors with Tara alongside the other defectors, making it clear that even if Tara isn't with them, they are with her. Tara agrees to arm the defectors, but Aaron shows up with the women of Oceanside to firebomb the Savior attackers before a battle can break out. After the war is over, Alden approaches Maggie to ask her to remain at the Hilltop despite the other Savior defectors returning to the Sanctuary. Having read Georgie's book \"A Key to the Future\", Alden suggests that he can put his talents to better use making the book a reality and he has never truly felt at home in the Sanctuary. After a brief contemplation, Maggie agrees to allow Alden to join the Hilltop Colony.\n\nIn \"A New Beginning,\" Alden travels with the group to the Museum to gather supplies; and talks with Ken and Marco on the way back. After Ken's sudden death, Alden sings at his funeral. When Maggie decides to hang Gregory, Alden watches in discomfort along with the others. In \"The Bridge\", Alden comes to Rick to warn him that the Saviours are going to turn against him if he keeps going on the way he is, even comparing Rick's actions to that of Negan's. In \"Warning Signs\" Alden is present when The Saviors are causing an uproar and directly confronts Jed when trying to calm the situation. \"In \"The Obliged,\" Jed reveals that he ambushed Alden and stole his gun, leaving Alden's ultimate fate unknown. \n\nThough he does not appear, Alden is mentioned in \"Stradivarius\" where he is revealed to be alive and one of the Hilltop's construction foremen six years after Rick Grimes' apparent death. Alden reappears in \"Evolution\" where he is shown working as a blacksmith alongside Earl Sutton and to be in a relationship with Carl's old girlfriend Enid.\n\nThe casting name for this character was Dillon. Before his first appearance, he was compared to other characters from the show like Spencer Monroe and Nicholas. Alden's actual name wasn't revealed until \"How It's Gotta Be\" when fellow Savior Dean calls him Alden instead of Dillon.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1638094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1638094", "title": "Apantomancy", "text": "Apantomancy\n\nApantomancy is a form of divination using articles at hand or things that present themselves by chance. The diviner works him/herself into a state of trance until an object or event is perceived and a divination worked out. This form of divination was used in ancient Rome by the augurs. There is no set of standard interpretations in apantomancy, with the interpretations of events depending on the background of the seer.\n\nA branch of apantomancy places special significance on chance meetings of animals. The superstition regarding black cats crossing your path comes from this form of divination. Other common superstitions based on apantomancy are the belief that seeing a buzzard is an omen of death.\n"}
{"id": "184620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=184620", "title": "Artabazos I of Phrygia", "text": "Artabazos I of Phrygia\n\nArtabazus (; fl. 480 BC - 455 BC) was a satrap of Hellespontine Phrygia (now northwest Turkey) under the Achaemenid dynasty of Persia. He was the son of Pharnaces, who was the younger brother of Hystaspes.\n\nArtabazus was one of the generals in Xerxes' invasion of Greece, in charge of the reserve forces guarding the route back to Asia, and responsible for suppressing a revolt in Potidaea. The invasion ended with Mardonius, ignoring advice from Artabazus and others, meeting the Greeks in pitched battle at Plataea and being defeated (479 BC). The Greeks followed up their victory by sailing to Ionia, where they destroyed the garrisoning forces under Tigranes at Mycale in the same year. Artabazus, however, managed to lead the remnant portion of a greatly reduced Persian army out of Greece and back to Ionia. According to Herodotus and Plutarch this force consisted of 40,000 men. Herodotus claims in Thessaly he did not reveal the defeat as he would have been attacked, but claimed he needed to go to Thrace on a special mission. He was able to return to Persian territory despite losing men in attacks in Thrace.\n\nAs a reward, Artabazus was made satrap of Hellespontine Phrygia. This office was passed down to his descendants. He was succeeded by his son, Pharnabazus (fl. 455 BC - 430 BC), of whom little is known, and then by his grandson Pharnaces II of Phrygia (\"fl.\" 430 BC - 413 BC), who is known to have been satrap at the outset of the Peloponnesian War. Pharnaces was in turn succeeded by his son, another Pharnabazus (\"fl.\" 413 BC - 373 BC), who is well known for his rivalry with Tissaphernes and wars against the Spartans.\n\n"}
{"id": "2405374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2405374", "title": "Association for Research and Enlightenment", "text": "Association for Research and Enlightenment\n\nThe Association for Research and Enlightenment (A.R.E.), also known as Edgar Cayce's A.R.E., was founded by Edgar Cayce (1877–1945) in 1931 to research and explore subjects such as holistic health, ancient mysteries, personal spirituality, dreams and dream interpretation, intuition, philosophy and reincarnation. A.R.E.'s stated mission is to help people change their lives for the better through the ideas and information found in the Edgar Cayce readings.\n\nIts international headquarters is in Virginia Beach, Virginia, with a regional office in Houston, Texas. There are also Edgar Cayce Centers in 37 countries and individual members in more than 70 countries.\n\nA.R.E. runs conferences, retreats and other educational activities, and publishes books relating to Edgar Cayce and his teachings under the imprints of A.R.E. Press and 4th Dimension Press. The A.R.E. also publishes a quarterly member magazine, \"Venture Inward\".\n\nIt maintains an affiliation with Atlantic University, and runs a Health Center and Day Spa at its Virginia Beach headquarters along with the Cayce/Reilly School of Massage.\n\nA.R.E. is the heir to a previous Cayce-related organization, the Association of National Investigators (A.N.I.). Dependent on the financial support of a few major donors, the ANI emphasized major institution-building projects such as the original Atlantic University and the Cayce Hospital for Research and Enlightenment, a hospital staffed with medical personnel who used Cayce-recommended treatments. The name of the hospital would later inspire the name, Association for Research and Enlightenment. The ANI and its various projects folded with the onset of the Great Depression.\n\nIn 1931, Cayce called a meeting of his supporters in Virginia Beach, asking them directly whether they felt that his work should continue. The result was the creation of the Association for Research and Enlightenment as a successor organization to the A.N.I. This was also the beginning of a tradition of annual meetings at A.R.E.'s Virginia Beach headquarters featuring talks on various spiritual subjects.\n\nPrior to Cayce's death in 1945, people seeking a reading from Cayce were asked to join the A.R.E. This helped insulate Cayce from charges of fortune-telling, which was illegal in some U.S. states, as he was not directly charging a fee for his services but receiving a salary from the member-supported A.R.E. Apart from supporting Cayce and his staff, a major emphasis of the early A.R.E. was the encouragement of small groups devoted to spiritual study, prayer, and meditation.\n\nWhen Cayce died, he left many requests for readings unanswered. His son, Hugh Lynn Cayce, returned from the Army later that year and took charge of the A.R.E. Under Hugh Lynn Cayce's leadership, the A.R.E. arrived at the basic focus of activities and interests which it follows today. A major boost came with the rise of the 1960s counterculture and then the New Age Movement, which coincided with a number of popular books on Cayce including Jess Stearn's best seller, \"The Sleeping Prophet\".\n\nAfter Hugh Lynn's death in 1982 the A.R.E. was led by his son, Charles Thomas Cayce. Charles Thomas retired in 2006. The A.R.E.'s current CEO and executive director is Kevin J. Todeschi, previously the editor of the A.R.E. membership magazine, \"Venture Inward\", and a long-time A.R.E. staffer.\n\nDuring the last few decades, the A.R.E. has focused its efforts on globalizing its activities and promoting Cayce's spiritual message in the mass media.\n\nMajor activities of the A.R.E. include:\n\nThe A.R.E. is led by a board of trustees. The same board also heads a sister organization, the Edgar Cayce Foundation, which claims to hold the copyright to the Cayce readings and related material. (Critics point out that Cayce himself freely distributed the same material without copyright.) Books using Cayce quotes are thus expected to pay royalties.\n\nA.R.E. membership is a subscription arrangement in which the member receives a packet of goods (publications, mainly) and services (e.g., access to Cayce readings online) in exchange for an annual fee. These fees can be waived altogether for people who cannot afford the full fee. Life memberships are also available.\n\nWithin the United States and Canada, A.R.E. activities are divided into 11 multi-state / multi-provincial regions and 3 major metropolitan areas. Their relationship with Virginia Beach is basically that of a branch office to headquarters. Overseas, there are presently 29 Edgar Cayce Centers in 25 countries and another 37 countries with a lesser degree of A.R.E. representation.\n\nStudy groups and the Glad Helpers group are organizationally independent of A.R.E. headquarters and in fact pre-date that organization. They do, however, cooperate to some degree. For example, A.R.E. headquarters refers inquirers to study groups, while study groups may donate money or encourage their participants to join the A.R.E.\n\nCayce study groups usually meet weekly in members' homes. This occurs when no central place of gathering was available, such as in the A.R.E. of NYC at 241 West 30th Street. Traditional Cayce groups include The Dream Group, The Prayers for Healing Group, and Search for God. About half of the Prayers for Healing & Search for God meetings are generally devoted to the study of some appropriate Cayce text, traditionally the two volumes of \"A Search For God.\" These consist of lessons which Study Group #1 put together with guidance from the sleeping Cayce (who refused to allow them to continue until he felt that they were successfully living the spiritual lessons already given). Often, study group members will attempt to apply the lessons in their lives, just as the first group did.\n\nUsually, the other half of the Prayers for Healing meetings will be given over to meditation and recitation of names of those who wished for healing. Several prayers are often recited, including the Lord's Prayer and the Twenty-Third Psalm (\"The Lord is my shepherd...\"). The mediation during the second half can also apply to the Search for God group. Despite the prevalence of Christian traditions, a significant number of A.R.E. members are Jews or other non-Christians.\n\nThe Dream Group attempts to apply the Cayce philosophy to the interpretation of dreams. The group will take turns sharing their dreams and, based on the methods outlined in his texts, attempt to interpret their own. Later, the group will share ideas and feedback about whether the symbols and patterns were accurately interpreted. These groups are no charge, but donations are appreciated.\n\nThe original A.R.E. symbol consisted of a white cross and dove on a blue background. In 2007, this was changed to a dove and globe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53177980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53177980", "title": "Azande witchcraft", "text": "Azande witchcraft\n\nWitchcraft among the Azande (Zande people) is evil magic used to inflict harm on an individual and is the cause of all unusual or terrible events that take place. The belief in witchcraft is present in every aspect of Zande society. They believe it is a power that can only be passed on from a parent to their child. To the Azande, a witch uses witchcraft when he has hatred towards another person. Witchcraft can also manipulate nature to bring harm upon the victim of the witch. Oracles and witchdoctors determine whether someone is guilty of using witchcraft on another villager. More magic is then created to avenge the victim and punish the one who committed the transgression.\n\nThe African tribe of the Azande are largely found in the African countries of South Sudan, the Central African Republic, and the Northern Democratic Republic of Congo. Witchcraft surrounds Zande culture and is believed to be the major cause of disease, death, and any other unfortunate events that occur. It clings to a digestive organ of the body, and the only way it can be inherited is if the offspring of the witch is of the same sex. If a witch is male, then his child must be male in order to inherit witchcraft; likewise, if a witch is female, then her child must be female for witchcraft to be passed on to her child. Witchcraft is a psychic power that can only be used at a short range. Because of this, the Azande tend to distance themselves from their neighbors and live closer to oracles. Witchcraft can also use nature to cause injury or even death if the witch allows it. It can manipulate an animal such as a buffalo to kill someone or cause a structure such as a storage house to collapse on top of someone.\n\nAlthough witchcraft is the cause for any bad events that happen to anyone, the Azande do not blame it for human errors. It does not cause people to make mistakes in activities such as farming, hunting, or making crafts. Witchcraft also does not influence anyone to commit any moral crimes such as lying, cheating, or deceiving someone.\n\nA witch will not use his or her powers to hurt someone unless they dislike that person. When a witch uses their witchcraft on a victim, it flows out of them and into the body of the sleeping victim to steal their soul; a group of witches will then eat the soul of the victim, working collaboratively. Killing a person is a slow process, for the witch may have to perform witchcraft several times on the person to actually accomplish it. In turn, while the witch is performing their witchcraft, the victim's relatives can prepare a plan of defense and strike back at the evil magic, but before they are allowed to do this, they must seek advice from an oracle.\n\nAzande witches do not use magical spells or use any medicines. Witches perform their witchcraft through physical acts. Witches are very different than sorcerers who use who can make people ill by performing magic through the use of bad medicines.\n\nOracles are tasked with finding those responsible of using witchcraft on an individual, and with predicting future tragedies. If someone believes witchcraft is being used to cause misfortune upon one of their relatives, they may seek the wisdom of the oracles to see if that is the case. Different methods are used by oracles to determine whether someone is using witchcraft to bring disaster upon an individual.\n\nThe Azande consult the oracles about many different types of things that they need information on. In pre-European times the Zande chiefs consulted the oracles about different types of military decisions that they needed to make. The Azande use three different types of oracles. The most powerful oracle is the “benge” poison oracle, which is used solely by men. The decisions of the oracle are always accepted and no one questions it. This ritual that goes along with the use of the oracle utilizes a chicken and that is administered a special poison and then asked questions to. The answer to the question lies in the fate of the chicken whether it dies or lives after it is administered the poison for a set amount of time.\n\nOne such method to find out if witchcraft is being used is the so-called poison oracle; this uses a vegetable poison called benge, which is fed to a chicken. Whether the bird survives determines the answer. There are specific situations where a second fowl is fed the same poison to confirm the results of the first test. In order for the first test to be accepted as solid evidence, the results of the second test must be opposite of the first.\n\nAn example of an instance that the “benge” oracle may be used in is can be seen in the ethnographic video \"Witchcraft Among the Azande\" by anthropologist John Ryle. In order to find out why his wife is sick a husband choses to consult the “benge” oracle to find the witch who is the one that is making his wife sick. He asks this question to the benge oracle and then feed the poison to the chicken if it dies then the witch he asked the question about is guilty. The chicken in this case died and he then asked another chicken if he should divorce the second wife since she is the one causing the illness. But the oracle decides that would be pointless and that the other wife must spit water sincerely in order to purify herself so that the first wife gets well again.\n\nThe “benge” oracle can also be used in adultery cases to help decide if the people on trial are guilty. This can be seen in the ethnographic video \"Witchcraft Among the Azande\" when they have a case of adultery in the village. The adultery case has to go before the “benge” oracle to see if the women should get to live or die and if she is guilty or telling the truth. The chief has to consult the “benge” oracle and the chicken should only die if the two undressed and had sex and the chicken died proving that adultery had taken place. This will then be taken to the court and shown to the judge to prove that the two had lied and were actually a part of adultery.\n\nAnother group of oracles that the Zande can seek is the termite oracle. The termite oracle is more readily available to all. Women, men, and children are all allowed to consult this oracle. When a question is presented before these oracles, they take a branch from two trees. One branch is called the \"dakpa\", another \"kpoyo\". The oracle takes these branches and sticks them into a termite mound and waits overnight to see which branch the termites eat, which dictates the answer. The termite oracle is not as popular as the poison oracle, because it is more time-consuming. This is less elaborate and costly then the benge oracle. An example of an instance in which the termite oracle can be used in the ethnographic video \"Witchcraft Among the Azande\" when a woman in the village is sick and her husband wants to know whether or not she is going to live or die.\nThe least expensive but also least reliable oracle is the rubbing-board oracle. The rubbing board oracle is described in \"Culture Sketches\" as “a device resembling a Ouija board, made of two small pieces of wood easily carried to be consulted anywhere, and at any time.” They have a wood handle and second piece of wood if the wood catches or sticks then the answer to the question is revealed.\n\nIn addition to the oracles, witchdoctors can also predict disasters and reveal the witches who use their witchcraft to cause harm. Although both oracles and witchdoctors have these abilities, witchdoctors are considered to be more accurate as far as pointing out witches. Witchdoctors must go through extensive training before they can officially become a witchdoctor. When their assistance is needed, they come together and perform a dance near the home of one who is sick or dead to locate the origin of the evil magic. Normally a crowd of villagers are surrounding them during their dance, so the witchdoctors strive to perform their dance perfectly in order to impress those who are watching. The power that allows witchdoctors to track down witches comes from medicinal herbs.\n"}
{"id": "2737514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2737514", "title": "Barmakids", "text": "Barmakids\n\nThe Barmakids ( \"Barmakīyān\"; \"al-Barāmikah\", from the Sanskrit \"pramukha\", \"leader, chief administrator, registrar\"); also spelled Barmecides, were an Iranian influential family from Balkh in Bactria where they were originally hereditary Buddhist leaders (in the Nawbahar monastery), and subsequently came to great political power under the Abbasid caliphs of Baghdad. Khalid, the son of Barmak became the prime minister (\"wazir\") of Al Saffah, the first Caliph of the Abbasid dynasty. His son Yahya aided Harun Al-Rashid in capturing the throne and rose to power as the most powerful man in the Caliphate. The Barmakids were remarkable for their majesty, splendor and hospitality. They are mentioned in some stories of the \"Arabian Nights\".\n\nThe family is traceable back to the hereditary Buddhist administrators, Sanskrit प्रमुख Pramukha (Arabized to Barmak), of the Buddhist monastery of Nava Vihāra (Nawbahar) west of Balkh (Northern Afghanistan). Historians of Islam have sometimes considered the Barmakids to have been Zoroastrian priests before converting to Islam, an erroneous view based on the fact that Balkh was known as an important centre of Zoroastrianism, or from a simple failure of early Islamic sources to distinguish Zoroastrians from Buddhists. In fact, the Barmakids descended from the chiefs, or administrators of the Buddhist monastery called Navavihāra (Skt. नवविहार) or \"New Monastery\", that was described by the Chinese Buddhist diarist Xuanzang in the seventh century which may have led to the Persian and Arabic error of thinking that the term \"Nowbahār\" was the name of a Zoroastrian fire temple headed by the Barmakids as reported in Islamic sources. The Pramukhas converted during the Arab invasion of the Sasanian Empire.\n\nThe Barmakids were highly educated, respected and influential throughout Arabia, Persia, Central Asia and the Levant. In Baghdad, the Barmakid court became a centre of patronage for the Ulema, poets, scholars alike.\n\nThe first member of the family whose identity is known in historical records was a physician of Balkh. He is reputed for a pill named after him and also recommended by Avicenna in addition to a scent which was widely used by prostitutes. According to al-Masudi, the name Barmak was not a name but a title of the high priest of the fire temple of the city, though recent research makes it certain that it was a Buddhist title changed to look more Iranian. His wife was enslaved during the battle for Balkh in 705 and given to the Arab general's brother 'Abd-Ullah. Their sexual relation produced a son known as Khalid, whom 'Abd-Ullah later acknowledged as his natural son. She was later restored to her husband after peace was reached. Barmak had also been summoned to cure Caliph Abd al-Malik's son Maslama in 705. Abu Hafs 'Umar al-Kirmani's account narrates that the Barmak was brought among a party of \"shakirriya\" (thought to be slaves or retainers) and honored by the Caliph Hisham ibn Abd al-Malik who increased his status and was impressed by him. He then became a Muslim and enjoyed a high status. Clifford Edmund Bosworth states that it isn't known when or where the Barmak died, nor is his conversion certain, despite al-Kirmani's account. al-Kirmani states that he may have retained his faith as his son Khalid's beliefs were suspect, according to Ibn 'Asakir. Ibn al-Faqih records that his father had to abandon Islam after converting due to pressure from local magnates as well as people of Tukharistan and was even attacked by Tarkhan Nizak, being killed along with his ten sons. Khalid was born a Buddhist and later converted to Islam, taking various ministerial jobs within the Abbasid Caliphate. The Buddhist ancestry of Baramkids seems to have stimulated interest in Indian sciences in the eighth century.\n\nSee Khalid ibn Barmak.\n\nKhalid al-Barmaki (705–782) occupied distinguished positions under first two Abbasid Caliphs, al-Saffah (722–754) and al-Mansur (714–775). He had risen to be the vizier, following death of Abu Salma and Abul Jahm. Khalid was on such intimate terms with al-Saffah that his daughter was nursed by the wife of the Caliph. Likewise, Caliph's daughter was nursed by Khalid's wife.\n\nUnder Abbasid regime Khalid rose to the headship of the department of Finance (\"diwan al-Kharaj\") This department was concerned with Taxation and Land Tenure. Genuine budgets began to be drawn up for the first time and offices sprang up for various departments. The extensive staff of officials engaged in correspondence with the provinces and prepared estimates and accounts. An influential stratum of officialdom, the Irano-Islamic class of secretaries (\"kuttab\" in Arabic, \"dabiran\" in Persian), was formed which considered itself as the main support of the state. Their knowledge of the complex system of the \"kharaj\" (land tax) which took account not only of the quality of the land but of the produce of the crops sown, made the officials of the \"diwan al-Kharaj\"; the guardians of knowledge which was inaccessible to the uninitiated and was passed by inheritance.\n\nIn 765, Khalid al-Barmaki received the governorship of Tabaristan, where he crushed a dangerous uprising. During his governorship of Upper Mesopotamia, Khalid, through a mix of firmness and justice, brought the province quickly into order and effectively curbed the unruly Kurds.\n\nKhalid's son, Yaḥyá ibn Khālid (d. 806), at one time Governor of Arminiya, was entrusted by Caliph al-Mahdi (775-85) with the education of his son, Harun, the future Caliph al-Rashid.\n\nYaḥya's sons al-Fadl (766–808) and Ja'far (767–803), both occupied high offices under Harun al-Rashid.\n\nThe Barmakid family was an early supporter of the Abbasid revolt against the Umayyads and of As-Saffah. This gave Khalid bin Barmak considerable influence, and his son Yaḥyá ibn Khālid (d. 806) was the vizier of the caliph al-Mahdi (ruled 775–785) and tutor of Hārūn al-Rashid (ruled 786–809). Yahya's sons al-Fadl and Ja'far (767–803), both occupied high offices under Harun.\n\nMany Barmakids were patrons of the sciences, which greatly helped the propagation of Iranian science and scholarship into the Islamic world of Baghdad and beyond. They patronized scholars such as Gebir and Jabril ibn Bukhtishu. They are also credited with the establishment of the first paper mill in Baghdad. The power of the Barmakids in those times is reflected in \"The Book of One Thousand and One Nights\"; the vizier Ja'far appears in several stories, as well as a tale that gave rise to the expression \"Barmecide feast\".\n\nIn 803, the family lost favor in the eyes of Harun al-Rashīd, and many of its members were imprisoned.\n\nAccording to Rit Nosotro, Harun al-Rashīd found his chief pleasure in the society of his sister ʿAbbāsa and Barmakid prince Jafar bin Yahya. In order that these two might be with him continuously without breach of the restrictions on women, he persuaded them to contract a purely formal marriage. This marriage was on condition the two would meet only in his presence, and never produce an heir. This condition was broken, and when Harun learned that ʿAbbāsa had borne a son, he had Jafar suddenly arrested and beheaded, and the rest of the family, except Yahya's brother Muḥammad, also imprisoned and deprived of their property.\n\nHowever, al-Tabari and Ibn Khaldūn mentioned other reasons ensuring that their decline was gradual and not sudden. These other reasons are:\n\n\nThe fall of the Iranian Barmakids did not, however, affect the prominent position of the Persians in the Abbasid court, which continued until al-Mutawakkil.\n\nA number of canals, mosques and other public works owe their existence to the initiative and munificence of the Barmakids. Al Fadl ibn Yahya is credited with introducing the use of lamps in the mosques during the holy month of Ramadan. They are also credited with the establishment of the first paper mill in Baghdad. Jafar ibn Yahya acquired great fame for eloquence, literary activity, and calligraphy. Hitti argues that chiefly because of him, Arab historians regard the Barmakids as the founders of the class designated as 'people of the pen' (\"ahl al-qalam\"). The long neck which Barmakids possessed is said to have been responsible for the introduction of the custom of wearing high collars. The first extant Arabic report on India was prepared under the directions of Yahya ibn Barmak by his envoy. The Barmakids invited several scholars and physicians from everywhere in the caliphate to the court of Abbasids. During the Caliphate campaigns in India, Khalid ibn Barmak built the city of Mansura (Brahmanabad) there. Khalid was later in charge of the building of Baghdad. On 30 July 763, the caliph Al Mansur concluded the construction of the city.\n\nBaramkeh which is named after the Barmakids, is a neighborhood and district in the Qanawat municipality of Damascus.\n\n"}
{"id": "37859657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37859657", "title": "Bhujapidasana", "text": "Bhujapidasana\n\nBhujapidasana (; IAST: \"Bhujapīḍāsana\") or Shoulder pressing posture is a Yoga asana.\n\nThe name of this asana comes from Bhuja () meaning \"arm\" or \"shoulder\", Pīḍa () meaning \"pressure\" and \"Asana\" () meaning \"posture\".\n\nBhujapidasana is an arm supported asana in which the base of support are the palms of the hands. It requires both balance and strength to maintain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33826142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33826142", "title": "Brain activity and meditation", "text": "Brain activity and meditation\n\nMeditation and its effect on brain activity and the central nervous system became a focus of collaborative research in neuroscience, psychology and neurobiology during the latter half of the 20th century. Research on meditation sought to define and characterize various practices. Meditation’s effect on the brain can be broken up into two categories: state changes and trait changes, respectively alterations in brain activities during the act of meditating and changes that are the outcome of long-term practice.\n\nMindfulness meditation is frequently studied, a Buddhist meditation approach found in Zen and Vipassana. Jon Kabat-Zinn describes mindfulness meditation as a complete, unbiased attention to the current moment.\n\nElectroencephalography (EEG) has been used in many studies as a primary method for evaluating the meditating brain. Electroencephalography uses electrical leads placed all over the scalp to measure the collective electrical activity of the cerebral cortex. Specifically, EEG measures the electric fields of large groups of neurons. EEG has the benefit of excellent temporal resolution and is able to measure aggregate activity of portions or the entire cortex down to the millisecond scale. Unlike other imaging based methods, EEG does not have good spatial resolution and is more appropriately used to evaluate the running spontaneous activity of the cortex. This spontaneous activity is classified into four main classifications based on the frequency of the activity, ranging from low frequency delta waves (< 4 Hz) commonly found during sleep to beta waves (13–30 Hz) associated with an awake and alert brain. In between these two extremes are theta waves (4–8 Hz) and alpha waves (8–12 Hz).\n\nMany studies on mindfulness meditation, assessed in a review by Cahn and Polich in 2006, have linked lower frequency alpha waves, as well as theta waves, to meditation. Much older studies report more specific findings, such as decreased alpha blocking and increased frontal lobe specific theta activity. Alpha blocking is a phenomenon where the active brain, normally presenting beta wave activity, cannot as easily switch to alpha wave activity often involved in memory recall. These findings would suggest that in a meditative state a person is more relaxed but maintains a sharp awareness. Two large, recent comprehensive review works, however, point to poor control and statistical analyses in these early studies and comment that it can only be said with confidence that increased alpha and theta wave activity exists.\nFunctional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is another highly utilized methodology for studying state changes in meditating brains. fMRI detects subtle increases in blood flow to areas of the brain with higher metabolic activity. Thus these areas of increased metabolic activity indicate which regions of the brain are currently being used to process whatever stimuli presented. Counter to EEG, the advantage of fMRI is its spatial resolution, with the ability to produce detailed spatial maps of brain activity. It suffers, however, in temporal resolution and cannot measure progressive activity, like the EEG, with much detail.\n\nAs a relatively new technology, fMRI has only recently been used to assess brain state changes during meditation. Recent studies have shown heightened activity in the anterior cingulate cortex, frontal cortex, and prefrontal cortex, specifically in the dorsal medial prefrontal area during Vipassana meditation. Similarly, the cingulate cortex and frontal cortex areas were shown to have increased activity during Zen meditation. Both studies comment on the possibility that these findings could indicate some state of heightened voluntary control over attention during mindfulness meditation. Review works by Cahn and Chiesa state that these results indicate consistency in meditation’s effect on these regions of the brain, citing a multitude of other studies spanning other meditative disciplines, but mention the need for further investigation with better controls.\n\nThe review by Cahn also notes findings describing a heightened emotional state of meditators. A more complex study, conducted in 2008 by Lutz et al., focused on emotional response during meditation. This investigation involved the creation of a “compassion meditation” state by novice and experienced meditators and testing the meditators response to emotionally charged sounds. fMRI results indicated heightened activity in the cingulate cortex but also in the amygdala, temporo-parietal junction, and right posterior superior temporal sulcus in response to the emotional sounds. The authors of this study believe this indicates greater sensitivity to emotional expression and positive emotion due to the neural circuitry activated.\n\nSimilar to research into state changes in brain function, older studies make more specific claims about trait changes in meditators versus non-meditators. Changes to the alpha wave were indicated to be a trait, as well as state, phenomena. Studies have reported an increase in the specific frequencies expressed in the alpha range, increased alpha band power, and an overall slowing (reduction in frequency) in EEG activity in experienced meditators versus less experienced meditators while meditating. The alpha blocking phenomena, observed as a state change in brain function, was investigated as a possible trait change as well. One study that examined a variety of meditation techniques tried to show that alpha blocking was affected by the long term practice of meditation by testing response to auditory stimuli. Review works, however, comment on inconsistent findings as well as a lack of repeated results in this, and other studies. They further remark that, similar to observations in brain state changes, only general assertions can be made about brain trait changes: some change in the electroencephalographic profile exists but with some inconsistency. It is also important to note that these trait changes were observed during meditation, and although it does indicate that a practitioner’s electroencephalographic profile is modified by the practice of meditation, these EEG studies have not yet shown changes in non-meditating brains, even of experienced meditators.\n\nBrain trait changes have also been observed in neuroimaging studies, most often employing fMRI. In a meta-analysis of 21 neuroimaging studies, eight brain regions were found to be consistently altered, including areas key to meta-awareness (frontopolar cortex/Brodmann area 10), exteroceptive and interoceptive body awareness (sensory cortex and insular cortex), memory consolidation and reconsolidation (hippocampus), self and emotion regulation (anterior cingulate cortex and orbitofrontal cortex), and intra- and interhemispheric communication (superior longitudinal fasciculus; corpus callosum) These changes were distinguished by density increases in grey matter regions and white matter pathways in the brains of individuals who meditate in comparison to individuals who do not. Of all areas with reported findings, a greater number of structural changes were found in the left hemisphere.\nThere is also evidence to suggest meditation plays a protective role against the natural reduction in grey matter volume associated with aging. One study found evidence that Zen meditators experienced a slower age related decline rate for cerebral gray matter volume in the putamen which plays a role in learning, cognitive flexibility and attentional processing This could suggest a better attentiveness in aging meditators versus non-meditators.\n\nLong-term meditation practitioners have also shown to have a higher tolerance for pain. This effect has been correlated to altered function and structure in somatosensory cortices and an increased ability to decouple regions in the brain associated with the cognitive appraisal of pain (anterior cingulate cortex and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex).\n\nThe brain state changes found in meditators are almost exclusively found in higher-order executive and association cortices. This supports the notion that meditation increases self-regulation and attentiveness. Recent studies have also investigated how these changes may alter the functionality and connectivity of the default mode network, which is a hypothesized network of brain regions that are active when an individual is engaged in internal tasks such as daydreaming.\n\nIn the meta-analysis performed by Fox et al., several sources of bias were indicated which bring into question the validity of meditation studies which use neuroimaging. Fox et al. suggests a publication bias may be leading to the over-reporting of significant results. Despite this, however, Fox et al. found \"consistent differences in prefrontal cortex and body awareness regions\" in \"areas key to meta-awareness..., exteroceptive and interoceptive body awareness..., memory consolidation and reconsolidation..., self and emotion regulation..., and intra- and interhemispheric communication...\" and that changes were significant with \"moderate\" global median effect size and \"consistent and medium-sized brain structure differences.\"\n\nMore research will be needed before any firm conclusions can be made.\n\nBesides scientific literature, some authors have written of the promising research on meditation in books targeted for general audiences. One such book, Buddha’s Brain by Rick Hanson, PhD shares the current scientific research and investigations into meditation. Hanson, a neuroscientist and researcher, explains to readers the scientific studies in plain language and discuss the impact of the results. Hanson’s main argument is that positive emotions, like love can be strengthened through meditation in a neuroplastic manner, citing dozens of scientific studies to support this claim. Hanson’s viewpoint is representative of a larger popular movement to study and embrace Eastern phenomena including meditation in the Western world.\n\nCritics, like Owen Flanagan, PhD, believe that Hanson, and those like him, are overextending the results of current scientific studies. In his book \"Bodhisattva’s Brain: Buddhism Naturalized\", Flanagan presents a more conservative viewpoint of current scientific research and cautions readers against the seemingly exciting results of recent studies. Flanagan does not believe current science supports the idea that positive emotion can be strengthened in the same way that stroke victims can recover use of limbs with use. Flanagan does acknowledge that meditation may be beneficial in some way, but the mechanism of how meditation affects the brain is still clouded. Similarly, Awasthi argues that Meditation is non-specific to the research studies showing clinical efficacy in some cases, though mechanisms remain unclear. Flanagan and Hanson use many of the same scientific studies to attempt to support their differing viewpoint, but both authors identify the need and importance of future studies investigating meditation.\n\n"}
{"id": "39413520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39413520", "title": "British Druid Order", "text": "British Druid Order\n\nThe British Druid Order (BDO) is an international druid order, founded in 1979 as a religious and educational organisation. Its constitution defines it as a not-for-profit unincorporated association. It is commonly regarded as being one of the first, if not the first, explicitly neo-pagan Druid Orders. The order draws on medieval Welsh texts such as the Mabinogion and other early British/Celtic texts for inspiration and to re-connect with the pre-Christian, indigenous religious and spiritual practices of Britain which it believes to be shamanic in nature.\n\nFounded in 1979 with the creation of the original Mother Grove, The Grove of the Badger, in Hastings, Sussex, England by Philip Shallcrass, the current Chief of the Order.\n\nBy 1992, the BDO was publishing and disseminating pagan literature focused on the shamanic traditions of the Islands of Britain.\n\nThe Gorsedd of Bards of Caer Abiri was co-founded at Avebury in 1993 by the BDO with ritual designed by Philip Shallcrass\n\nIn 1995, Philip Shallcrass was joined by Emma Restall Orr as joint chief of the order.\n\nThe first US Gorsedd, Caer Pugetia, was founded in Seattle during a visit to America by the joint chiefs of the Order in 1997 and the Gorsedd of Bards of Cor Gawr founded at Stonehenge as part of the BDO's work to extend ritual access to the site.\n\nIn 2002, Emma Restall Orr stepped down as joint chief of the order in order to set up The Druid Network, following which in 2003 the BDO Circle of Elders was formed.\n\nBy 2010, the BDO had completed construction of an Iron Age style Roundhouse which has since been the focus of training, workshops and ritual for the order. 2011 saw the launch of the BDO's Bardic training, with its first Bards graduating in 2013.\n\n2013 also saw the launch of the Druid Hedge Schools initiative, a loose network of pagan Druid trainings intended to promote Druidry as a spiritual practice in the modern world.\n\nThe British Druid Order follows the contemporary tradition of neo-druidry with its threefold division of the Order membership into Bards, Ovates and Druids.\n\nBDO Druidry \n\nThe order believes that the pre-Christian, indigenous religious and spiritual practices of the original Druids were shamanic in nature, and works to reconstruct such practices in a form as a spiritual system answering to the needs of the 21st century where possible and to reconnect with the spirit of them where not, a process referred to by the BDO as 'rekindling the sacred fire.'\n\nPractically, the British Druid Order seeks to understand and work with the spirit of inspiration and creativity known in the British Druid tradition as 'awen' through study, ritual, folklore, healing and many other practices to facilitate connections to sources of knowledge, inspiration and wisdom beyond the confines of the human psyche and rooted in the natural world. It also sees political and practical activism, in the areas of ecology, as a spiritual obligation.\n\nThe following is a list of publications that the BDO have produced. Tooth and Claw is still published on an occasional basis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2226896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2226896", "title": "Buddhist Publication Society", "text": "Buddhist Publication Society\n\nThe Buddhist Publication Society is a charity whose goal is to explain and spread the doctrine of the Buddha. It was founded in Sri Lanka in 1958 by two Sri Lankan Buddhist laymen, A.S. Karunaratna and Richard Abeyasekera, and a European-born Buddhist monk, Nyanaponika Thera. Originally conceived as a limited effort to publish small, affordable books on fundamental Buddhist topics, the Society expanded its scope in response to the reception of their early publishing efforts. Reflecting its Sri Lankan roots, the Buddhist Publication society's publications reflect the perspective of the Theravada branch of Buddhism, drawing heavily from the Pali Canon for source material.\n\nThe BPS regularly supplies Buddhist literature to over 3,000 subscriber members all over the world, in some eighty countries. Its titles have been translated into many other languages, including German, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Czech, Hindi, and Chinese. \n\nThe Buddhist Publication Society publishes a variety of works, in both English and Sinhala, ranging from introductory works to translations of technical philosophical texts. The Society publishes works by a number of noted Theravada monks and lay writers, including books by Nyanaponika Thera, Nyanatiloka Thera, Bhikkhu Bodhi, Piyadassi Thera, Bhikkhu Ñanamoli, Narada Mahathera, Mahasi Sayadaw, Helmuth Hecker, S. Dhammika and Francis Story. \n\nFrom the BPS's inception to 1984 Ven. Nyanaponika Thera was the BPS's English editor. From 1984 until 2002 Ven. Bhikkhu Bodhi was the editor. Since 2005 Ven. Bhikkhu Nyanatusita is the editor.\n\nThe BPS's English-language publications fall into three classes: two series of booklets called \"The Wheel\" and \"Bodhi Leaves\", and full-size books. \n\n\"The Wheel\" consists of booklets issued in a format 4.8 x 7.2 inches, typically ranging from 40 to 80 pages. Since the inception of BPS in 1958 about 250 titles have been published, though not all have been maintained in print. The booklets cover a wide range of topics and can be categorized as: Introductory Booklets; Specific Teachings (on the main topics of Buddhist doctrine, such as the Four Noble Truths, the Noble Eightfold Path, dependent origination, the three marks of existence, kamma and rebirth, and so forth); Meditation and Mind Training; Dhamma Reflections (more personal explorations of the relevance of Buddhist principles for spiritual understanding and practice); Philosophy and Psychology; Faith and Devotion; Monastic Life; Comparative Studies; Buddhist History and Culture; Buddhism and the World Today; Translations from the Pali Canon; Non-Canonical Buddhist Literature. All Wheel Publications have been digitalised and are being reissued in bound volumes as well as put on the BPS website. \n\n\"Bodhi Leaves\" is a series of smaller booklets, hand-sized, between 16 and 40 pages in length. Its range of categories is similar to that of the Wheel, but the tone is different, less expository and more conversational. Bodhi Leaves are intended to offer personal insights into the Buddha's teachings, close-up focus on specific ethical and social problems, and practical guidelines to living by the light of the Dhamma. This series was discontinued some years ago, but the issues are being made available in digital format on the BPS website. \n\nThe BPS's line of full-size books ranges from basic introductions to advanced texts on the finer points of Buddhist doctrine and practice. Books on basic Buddhism include several comprehensive surveys that have long been regarded as essential reference works. Ven. Narada Thera's \"The Buddha and His Teachings\" gives an informative account of the Master's life and teaching, highlighting the doctrines of kamma and rebirth, meditation, the nature of Nibbána, and the way to enlightenment. For a complete biography, Bhikkhu Ñanamoli's \"The Life of the Buddha\" is unique: a vivid and moving portrait of the Enlightened One composed almost entirely from texts of the Pali Canon. This is our most popular title, and though in print for over twenty-five years it is still constantly in demand. For an illuminating account of the Buddha's path two authoritative works can be recommended. One is Piyadassi Thera's popular \"The Buddha’s Ancient Path\", the other is Bhikkhu Bodhi's \"The Noble Eightfold Path\". Both works offer detailed explanations of each of the eight factors of the path, thus showing how Buddhism is to be practiced as a way of life.\n\nFor elementary, original source material on the Dhamma, two compilations by the great German scholar-monk Nyanatiloka Thera (Ven. Nyanaponika's teacher) are still unsurpassed. The more elementary is \"The Word of the Buddha\", first compiled in 1906 and subject to some sixteen reprints. This book arranges the Buddha's sayings around the framework of the Four Noble Truths. The more advanced title is \"The Buddha’s Path to Deliverance\", which documents the Buddha's own instructions on all the different methods of meditation, both for concentration and insight, and arranges them according to the pattern of the seven stages of purification.\n\nThe BPS also publishes accurate translations of several small classics from the Pali Canon, including Achariya Buddharakkhita's \"The Dhammapada\" and (in one volume) \"The Udána and the Itivuttaka\", translated by John Ireland. For more advanced students, the present writer has issued translations of four major Pali suttas along with their commentaries and excerpts from the subcommentaries. The first of these is the best one to start with: \"The Discourse on the All-Embracing Net of Views\", a translation of the Brahmajala Sutta and its commentaries. The others are: \"The Discourse on the Root of Existence (the Mulapariyaya Sutta)\"; \"The Great Discourse on Causation (the Mahanidana Sutta)\"; and \"The Discourse on the Fruits of Recluseship (the Samaññaphala Sutta).\"\n\nBPS books on meditation give qualified guidance in both the practical methods of meditation and the underlying theory. A thorough and informative survey is Amadeo Sole-Leris's \"Tranquillity and Insight,\" which systematically explores both samatha and vipassana meditation according to the classical sources and their modern adaptations. A modern classic is Nyanaponika Thera's \"The Heart of Buddhist Meditation.\" Basic instructions in insight meditation are found in Mahasi Sayadaw's \"Practical Insight Meditation\", while Jack Kornfield's \"Modern Buddhist Masters\" collects tracts from a range of contemporary Theravada meditation masters from Burma and Thailand. A work with a unique flavour is \"The Seven Stages of Purification\" by the late Matara Sri Ñāṇanārāma Mahathera, one of Sri Lanka's most respected meditation masters of recent times. \n\nThe BPS also publishes several books on the Abhidhamma, a systematic arrangement of the Buddha's philosophical and psychological teachings, defining the theory that lies behind his more pragmatically oriented discourses: \"A Comprehensive Manual of Abhidhamma\", a translation of the \"Abhidhammattha-sangaha\" complete with a detailed explanatory guide by the Burmese Sayadaw U Rewatadhamma and Bhikkhu Bodhi. Nyanaponika Thera's \"Abhidhamma Studies\" demonstrates the practical relevance of the Abhidhamma to the spiritual life. To find one's way through the seven books of the canonical Abhidhamma, Nyanatiloka Thera's \"Guide through the Abhidhamma Pitaka\" is of great use. For exploring the full range of classical Theravada thought Achariya Buddhaghosa's masterpiece, The \"Visuddhimagga\" is essential. This is a virtual encyclopaedia of Buddhist doctrine and meditation, which gives detailed coverage to all the meditation subjects and, in its middle chapters, a survey of the Abhidhamma. This is published by BPS in the outstanding translation by Bhikkhu Ñanamoli under the title \"The Path of Purification.\" The BPS also publishes the translation of an earlier, shorter work, the \"Vimuttimagga\" or \"Path of Freedom,\" which served as the example for the \"Visuddhimagga,\" and which is only completely extant in a Chinese translation. A draft translation from the Chinese was done by N.R.M. Ehara, Soma Thera and Kheminda Thera. A new translation of this important work is currently being done by Bhikkhu Nyanatusita. \n\nOver the years BPS has published several works by the greatest Burmese scholar-monk of recent times, Ledi Sayadaw. The Wheel series includes Ledi Sayadaw's \"Manual of Insight (Vipassana Dipani), The Requisites of Enlightenment (Bodhipakkhiya Dipani), The Noble Eightfold Path and Its Factors (Magganga Dipani), The Buddhist Philosophy of Relations (Patthanuddesa Dipani)\" and the \"Manual of Mindfulness of Breathing (Anapana Dipani)\". \"The Manual of the Supreme Man (Uttamapurisa Dipani)\" and, most recently, the \"Manual of Light and the Path of Higher Knowledge (Alin Kyan and Vijjamagga Dipani)\" were published in book form. \n\nThe most recent book publications of the BPS are: \"The Life of Nyanatiloka Thera\" by Hellmuth Hecker and Bhikkhu Nyanatusita, \"Similes of the Buddha\" by Hellmuth Hecker, \"Buddhist Nuns\" by Mohan Wijayaratna and \"Jataka Tales of the Buddha\" by Ken and Visakha Kawasaki.\n\nIn the late 1990s, the BPS entered into co-publication agreements with major Buddhist publishers in the West. The purpose of this step is to make its own works more readily available to readers in the Americas and Europe. The BPS also co-publishes works on Theravada Buddhism first issued by Western publishers, to make them more easily available for Asian readers. To date the BPS's partner in both areas of cooperation has been Wisdom Publications in Boston. \n\nWorks first issued by Wisdom Publications, and then taken over for the Asian readership by BPS, include: \"The Middle Length Discourses of the Buddha\", a translation of the Majjhima Nikaya originally made by Bhikkhu Ñanamoli, U Pandita's \"In This Very Life\" and Ayya Khema's \"Being Nobody, Going Nowhere\". Along with Wisdom, the BPS also publishes a wonderful collection of biographies called \"The Great Disciples of the Buddha\". This book brings to life for the modern reader such outstanding figures as Sariputta and Moggallana.\n\nBPS has also partnered with Pariyatti, a U.S. publisher, importer, distributor, and bookseller affiliated with the Vipassana Research Academy, established in Igatpuri, India, by Sri S.N. Goenka. As well as distributing BPS books in the Americas, Pariyatti has created an imprint called BPS Pariyatti Editions (BPE) to publish American editions of \"The Path of Purification, A Comprehensive Manual of Abhidhamma, The Noble Eightfold Path\" and other popular BPS titles. \n\nSince 1960 the BPS has been issuing a Sinhala-language counterpart of The Wheel called \"Damsak\" (= \"Dhamma-cakka\"), and a series of full-size books in Sinhala called Kalana Mithuru (= Kalyanamitra) Books. From 1960 \"Damsak\" was edited by the famous Sri Lankan missionary monk, Ven. Piyadassi Thera. After his death in 1998, responsibility for the Sinhala publications was taken over by his assistant, A.G.S. Kariyawasam until his death in 2005. Currently, Mr. Senadheera is looking after the Sinhalese publications.\n\nIn 1993, the Society launched the Nyanaponika Dhamma Dana project, named in honor of former Society president Nyanaponika Mahathera. Under the auspices of the project, 50-150 copies of each new book published by the society are sent free of charge to libraries, monasteries, and Buddhist centers around the world. Copies of the Wheel are also sent to a number of Buddhist temples and practice centers, to be distributed free of charge.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9046795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9046795", "title": "Council of Magickal Arts", "text": "Council of Magickal Arts\n\nThe Council of Magickal Arts or CMA, Inc. is the largest Neo-pagan organization in Texas, and runs one of the USA's largest bi-annual Neo-pagan festivals in the Southern United States.\n\nFounded in 1980, the CMA is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation, registered in the state of Texas. CMA's festivals are held on a parcel of land called Spirit Haven Ranch, which is owned by the corporation. CMA produces an online quarterly newsletter, \"The Accord\". CMA \"promotes spirituality based on Pagan beliefs, and is open to people of all traditions who are interested in celebrating nature, spirit and community.\"\n\nStarting out as little more than a joint camping event of several covens and some unattached solitary practitioners, as of 2012, CMA had a membership of nearly 1000 people and festival attendance of 500 or more at each festival.\nThe Council of Magickal Arts promotes spirituality based on Pagan beliefs and practices, by holding religious programs and gatherings for members to celebrate the holidays of Beltane and Samhain, and by publishing a quarterly magazine devoted to the religions and practices of the magickal arts.\n\nThese are the guiding principles of the CMA are:\n\n\"The Accord\" is the online quarterly periodical of the corporation, and contains a wide range of articles by members. In the past \"The Accord\" was a medium quality magazine periodical with national distribution, but printing costs and the expenses of land ownership have caused CMA to move to a paperless, online publication, which may be read on the corporation's website www.magickal-arts.org. .pdf format.\n\nCMA hosts two festivals a year: Beltane and Samhain. Held a couple of weeks before Beltaine and Samhain, to allow for local and coven obligations, CMA has become primarily known for them.\n\nFor many years the festivals were held at a commercial camping property in the hill country of Austin, Texas. In 1999 CMA purchased land of their own, called SpiritHaven, located near the community of Cistern in Central Texas.\n\nA typical festival starts with setup on Wednesday for vendors and early arrivals. The main attendees arrive on Thursday and Friday. Each night a public ritual is held, presented by different volunteer members and their groups (covens, kindreds, groves, etc.), and, weather permitting, a bonfire (Revels) is lit. The bonfire serves as the main public area for those who wish to stay up late into the night, drumming, dancing, and talking. Personal and group campsites also host gatherings at night.\n\nDuring the daylight hours of Friday and Saturday, a full schedule of workshops are presented, some by members and some by guest presenters which, in the past, has included such notables as Patricia Telesco, Fritz Jung and Wren (of The Witches' Voice), Morning Glory Zell-Ravenheart, and more.\n\nBetween the workshops and the evening ritual and bonfire, the main stage is used to present regional and national Pagan artists, such as Dreamtrybe (formerly \"Velvet Hammer\"), Canvas, Spoonfed Tribe, SONA, Lisa Thiel, Darwin Davis, Spiral Dance, and others.\n\nThe corporation's business meeting, called Great Works, is held on Sunday after the festival.\n\nOften referred to as, simply, \"The Land\", Spirit Haven Ranch is just outside the town of Cistern, Texas, which is a few miles north of IH-10 and the town of Flatonia, Texas. Although some improvements have been made, such as a water well and electricity for some critical needs such as a First Aid Building, and Ritual Areas, the land is mostly rough. The camping areas are mesquite covered, while the Sacred Spaces (located in the flood plain, around the creek) are more densely wooded with oaks and other native trees.\n\nMaintenance between festivals, and the majority of the work to ready the land for each festival, is done by the volunteers of the Spirit Haven Ranch Team, and all members are welcome to come out on the work weekends as part of the team, as well as interested persons wanting to learn more about CMA.\n\nTent camping is the only form of lodging available at Spirit Haven Ranch. RV space is limited and without amenities.\nMembers may also now lease campsites on a yearly basis, reserving their group's placement during Festivals. These sites are reserved for the lessee and their associates.\n\n"}
{"id": "39106304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39106304", "title": "Dru yoga", "text": "Dru yoga\n\nDru yoga is a style of yoga that works with postures, breath work, relaxation and meditation. Its series or sequences are called Energy Block Release. According to \"Dru World Wide\" this yoga style has thousands of practitioners in 31 countries. The word Dru in the name refers to the hindu deity dhruva, a prince from the Hindu mythology the god Vishnu honored with the eternal abode on the Pole Star (Dhruva Nakshatra in sanskrit).\n\nDru Yoga aims in creating healing and unity by combining Asanas, Pranayama (breath) and ancient Eastern tradition of Mudras (hand gestures).\n\nDru was started in 1978 by Mansukh Patel, Chris Barrington, Rita Goswami, Annie Jones and John Jones at Bangor University. It is inspired by the teachings of Francis of Assisi and Mahatma Gandhi.\n\nWith their head office in Nant Ffrancon in a former motel, near Bethesda, Gwynedd Dru Worldwide and affiliates have registered Dru yoga as their trademark in Australia and the US. The organisation changed its name from Life Foundation School of Therapeutics Ltd to the World Peace Flame Foundation, and has also been known as Life Foundation International, Dru (UK) Ltd and Dru World Wide.\n\nThe Sunday Mail reported in 2001 that of funds raised only a fraction went to charity. In 2006 ex-members of the organization came forward with allegations of sexual exploitation and abuse within the organization. Other efforts by the Life Foundation were criticized, such as the Eternal Peace Flame.\n\nThe Dutch web directory SIMPOS was at one time collating articles in English, critical of the organisation and its former leader Mansukh Patel, who has since returned to the top of the leadership team.\n\n"}
{"id": "13486172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13486172", "title": "Hindu Munnani", "text": "Hindu Munnani\n\nHindu Munnani is a religious and cultural organization based in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu which was formed to defend Hinduism and protect Hindu religious monuments.\n\nHindu Munnani was founded in 1980 or 1982 by Shri Ramagopalan in the backdrop of the Meenakshipuram conversions. Since then, it has been lobbying for the rights of the Hindus, fighting the Islamic right-wing and radical Islamic political groups and vehemently opposing Christian conversions.\n\nThe Hindu Munnani website describes its objectives as follows:\n\nThe Hindu Munnani first gained public awareness in 1982 when it began to mobilize the Hindu population of Ramanathapuram district in response to the Meenakshipuram conversions by Ishaatul Islam Sabha of South India Since then, the Hindu Munnani has often espoused the cause of Hindus, the Hindu religion and Hindu culture.\n\nHowever, the most remarkable achievement of the Hindu Munnani was the organization of Vinayaka Chathurthi processions in Tamil Nadu. On 16 May 2006, the Hindu Munnani organized the Silver Jubilee celebrations of the installation of the \"shivalinga\" in the Jalakanteswarar temple in Vellore\n\nThe Vinayaga Chathurthi celebrations organized by the Hindu Munnani were often accompanied by sporadic incidents of communal violence. In 1993, there were bomb attacks made on the R.S.S. state headquarters at Chintadripet, Chennai. Islamic organizations were found guilty for the blasts and a crackdown was launched on extremist Islamic organizations. During the visit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader L. K. Advani and Indian Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee to Coimbatore in 1998, a series of thirteen blasts rocked the city, killing over fifty-eight people.\n\nRecently, there have been clashes between the Hindu Munnani and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) over the remarks made by BJP leader Vedanti on DMK President and Chief Minister Karunanidhi. DMK cadres attacked the Hindu Munnani state headquarters in Chennai on motorbikes.\n\nIn 1981, Hindu Munnani leader, Thirukovilur Sundaram was murdered at R. S. Puram in Coimbatore by Islamic fundamentalists.\n\nHe was a senior leader of Hindu Munnani in Vellore. He was murdered by a gang of 8 people when he was headed towards Ramakrishna Math on his motorbike in July 2013.\n\nK P Suresh was the president of the Hindu Munnani for Thiruvallur East district. He was originally from Kanyakumari. He was murdered by people from Al Ummah, a Muslim terrorist organisation, in June 2014. Three members, Mohammed Samiuddin, Abdul Shameem and Sadiq, were arrested by the police in August 2014.\n\nHe was Hindu Munnani's Tirunelveli town secretary. He was murdered in front of his house at Sankarankoil by three unidentified men in July 2014.\n\nC Sasikumar, 36, was returning home on a two-wheeler when a gang chased him on motorcycles and attacked him with sickles. He suffered eleven cut injuries and was struggling for life. The victim was later rushed to a private hospital, where he died. His body was taken to Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) where a postmortem was conducted.\n\nHis death triggered a riot.\n\nThe Hindu Munnani state president said his organisation’s patience was wearing thin, as the state government had failed to prevent a series of attacks on its workers Kadeswara C. Subramaniam, the State president of the Munnani, listed a series of attacks on his cadre including three murders.\n\nRight from its genesis, the Hindu Munnani was involved in a number of controversies. Its genesis was coeval with the Meenakshipuram conversions and the Hindu-Muslim and Hindu-Christian riots which followed. On 19 February 1981, about 200 Dalit families in the village of Meenakshipuram in the Tirunelveli district of Tamil Nadu were converted to Islam and the name of their village was changed to Rehmatpuram. The Hindu Munnani was active in organizing a mass movement to bring the converted Dalits back into the Hindu fold. In March 1982, when riots broke out between Hindus and Christians at Mandaikadu in Kanyakumari district, the Hindu Munnani played an active role.\n\nIn November 2007, a photo of Tamil actress Kushboo sitting cross-legged with slippers in front of idols of Hindu goddesses landed the actress in the middle of a huge controversy. A complaint was lodged by Gurumurthy a Hindu Munnani leader. The Hindu Munnani President Rama Gopalan said that Kushboo's act was unbecoming of a public figure and demanded a public apology from her. In June 2008, the Hindu Munnani threatened to block Kamal Hassan's film \"Dasavatharam\" on the ground that certain scenes in the film affected the sentiments of Hindus.\n\nIn December 1993, on the first anniversary of the Babri Masjid demolition, there was widespread violence allegidly organised by hindu munnadi in the Kottaimedu area of Coimbatore. Violence also occurred during the fifth anniversary of the demolition in 1997, and also during the aftermath of the Coimbatore bomings in 1998.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1531953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1531953", "title": "Hindu music", "text": "Hindu music\n\nHindu music is music created for or influenced by Hinduism. It includes Indian classical music, Kirtan, Bhajan and other musical genres.\nRaagas are a common form of Hindu music in classical India.\n\nThe most common Hindu bhajan in North India is \"Om Jai Jagdish Hare.\" \nThe names of Gods are religiously chanted, often including Vishnu and his incarnations, Shiva and the Goddess (Parvati, Shakti, Vaishnodevi).\n\nA very common scale in Hindu music is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7, which can be harmonized into a chord progression.\n\nA bhajan is a Hindu devotional song, often of ancient origin. Bhajans are often simple songs in lyrical language expressing emotions of love for the Divine, whether for a single God/Goddess, or any number of divinities. Many bhajans feature several names and aspects of the chosen deity, especially in the case of Hindu sahasranamas, which list a divinity's 1008 names. Great importance is attributed to the singing of bhajans with Bhakti, i.e. loving devotion. \"Rasanam Lakshanam Bhajanam\" means the act by which we feel more closer to our inner self or God, is a bhajan. Acts which are done for the God is called bhajan. \n\nTraditionally, the music has been Indian classical music, which is based on ragas and tala (rhythmic beat patterns) played on the Veena (or Been), Sarangi Venu (flute), Mridanga(or Tabla) (traditional Indian instruments). The Sikh Scripture contains 31 ragas and 17 talas which form the basis for kirtan music compositions.\n\nHindus are even said to have achieved Moksha through devoting music to God. For example in the Rig Veda Gargi, the wife of Yajnavalkya, through her excellence in veena playing, an incident that caused Sage Yagnavalkya to write the famous verse: \n\nThere have also been several music-saints (e.g. Sant Tyagaraja) and poet-saints (e.g. Sant Ravidas).\n\nThis is the communal, call-and-response chanting of mantras, often with instruments and dance. Kirtans are deeply rooted in Vedic tradition.\n\nThe origins of Indian classical music can be found from the oldest of scriptures, part of the Hindu tradition, the Vedas. Samaveda, one of the four Vedas, describes music at length.\n\nbert"}
{"id": "3919371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3919371", "title": "Iconography of Gautama Buddha in Laos and Thailand", "text": "Iconography of Gautama Buddha in Laos and Thailand\n\nThe Iconography of Gautama Buddha in Laos and Thailand is referred to as pang phraputtarup , and a given pose as \"pang\" . These recall specific episodes during his travels and teachings that are familiar to the Buddhists according to an iconography with specific rules; certain ones of these are considered particularly auspicious for those born on particular days of the week.\n\nThe Buddha is always represented with certain physical attributes, and in specified dress and specified poses. Each pose, and particularly the position and gestures of the Buddha's hands, has a defined meaning which is familiar to Buddhists. In other Buddhist countries, different but related iconography is used, for example the mudras in Indian art.\n\nFor Buddhists, the correct depiction of the Buddha is not an anabolistic matter; Buddhists believe that a properly rendered Buddha image is a hypostasis: an actual spiritual emanation of the Buddha, which possesses supernatural qualities. Although the Buddha is not a god, Buddhists seek to communicate with the supernatural world through Buddha images, making offerings to them and praying before them.\nBuddha images are not intended to be naturalistic representations of what Gautama Buddha looked like. There are no contemporary images of him, and the oldest Buddha images date from 500 to 600 years after his lifetime. But Buddhists believe that Buddha images represent an ideal reality of the Buddha, and that every Buddha image stands at the end of a succession of images reaching back to the Buddha himself.\n\nWhen creating a Buddha image, the artist is expected to be in a spiritual and mental state (\"samādhi\") that will enable him to visualise this ideal reality. There is no requirement that every Buddha image be identical, and in fact there is a wide variety of artistic styles and national traditions in representing the Buddha. There are, however, certain rules of representation that must be adhered to.\n\nThe current range of postures in which the Buddha may be shown, and the gestures which may be depicted, evolved over the first millennium of the Buddhist era (roughly 500 BCE to 500 CE), mainly in India, the original homeland of Buddhism. The tradition of images that reached South-East Asia had been changed in the later 5th century CE, apparently first at Sarnath in India. The new \"Sarnath image type\" or \"Gupta period Buddhist image\" differs from earlier Buddha images, such as those in Greco-Buddhist art, in a number of respects: the gaze is lowered, the clinging robes disclose no male genital bulge, the robe lacks folds, and there are different body proportions. \n\nIn the early part of this period, the Buddha was usually shown giving a general gesture of benediction, with the right hand held at shoulder-height with the palm facing forward and the fingers together and slightly bent. By the end of the Gupta Empire (about 550 CE), the canon of representation had become more varied, with the seated meditative position (\"dhyāna mudrā\" - see below) becoming common, particularly in Sri Lanka. By the 7th century CE the canon was largely as it is seen today.\nAs Buddhism spread from India to other countries, variations in the depiction of the Buddha evolved. This article describes the canon of Buddha representation in Thailand and Laos. This canon was not formalised until the 19th century, as part of the general project of \"modernisation\" that followed the Buddhist world's encounter with Western civilisation. A key figure in this process was the Siamese royal prince and Buddhist monk Paramanuchit Chinorot, a son of King Rama I, who in 1814 was appointed administrator of the Wat Pho royal temple in Bangkok. At the request of King Rama III, Paramanuchit described and represented 40 different postures of the Buddha in an illustrated treatise called \"Pathama Sambodhikatha\". Some of these, such as \"Buddha threading a needle,\" were new, although justified through reference to the literary accounts of the Buddha's life. Paramanuchit's illustrations were later rendered as bronze miniatures, which can be seen today at Wat Phra Kaew in Bangkok and serve as templates for the creation of modern Buddhist imagery.\n\nThe \"Dīgha Nikāya\", a Pāli text of the 1st century BCE, gives a list of 32 physical attributes of the Buddha. Some of these are poetic or fanciful (\"legs like an antelope's,\" \"ankles like rounded shells\"), while others are more specific: feet with level tread, projecting heels, long and slender fingers and toes, a tuft of hair between the eyebrows. Although it is not required that Buddha images reflect all of these attributes, many of them have acquired canonical status.\n\nMost curiously, the Buddha is said to have had a protuberance on the top of his skull, the \"usnīsa\". This is sometimes shown as a spire or spike, and sometimes only as a small bump. The Buddha always has a serene expression or a faint smile. The Buddha is also always depicted with very long earlobes. This is attributed to his earlier life as a prince, weighed down by material possession, but has since come to symbolize wisdom.\n\nThe Buddha may be depicted in one of four postures:\nThe Buddha is nearly always depicted wearing a monastic robe, of the type worn by Buddhist monks today. The robe may be shown as worn in the \"covering mode\" (draped over both shoulders) or in the \"open mode\" (leaving the right shoulder and breast uncovered). The robe is a representation of the Buddha's humility. (Gautama was originally a prince, who renounced the world to seek enlightenment, and his original robe was made from the shroud of a corpse.) The robe is sometimes shown as diaphanous, transparent or billowing mysteriously, suggesting the spiritual power emanating from the Buddha. Buddha images are often draped with real robes, which are renewed periodically, usually at major festivals. The Buddha may also be shown wearing royal attire, but this is uncommon.\n\nThe most important aspect of the iconography of the Buddha is gestures made with the hands, known as \"mudrā\". These gestures have meanings which are known throughout the Buddhist world, and when combined with the postures described above, give a complete representation, usually associated with a particular incident in the life of the Buddha.\n\nThe six \"mudrā\" associated with the Buddha are:\n\nOver the centuries combinations and variations of these six \"mudrā\" have evolved. For example, the \"double \"abhāya mudrā\"\", with both hands held up in the \"abhāya mudrā\" position, became common in Thailand and Laos in the 16th century, and is now one of the most common representations of the Buddha in south-east Asian countries. It is sometimes interpreted as \"Buddha teaching on reason.\" As artists wished to depict more of the specific incidents in the life of the Buddha, new, secondary \"mudrās\" evolved, such as \"Buddha holding an alms bowl\", \"Buddha receiving a mango\" and Buddha performing various miracles. Many of these originated in Burma and then spread to other parts of the Buddhist world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2505557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2505557", "title": "Igrejas de Cristo", "text": "Igrejas de Cristo\n\nIgrejas de Cristo is a denomination of Mozambique. It is a Protestant church with \napproximately 200 congregations. It has at least a thousand members.\n\n"}
{"id": "15006362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15006362", "title": "Islam in the Solomon Islands", "text": "Islam in the Solomon Islands\n\nIslam is a minority religion in the Solomon Islands. The religion first entered the country in 1987, when a Ghanaian missionary belonging to the Ahmadiyya movement visited Guadalcanal island on a reconnaissance trip lasting three years. Today, there are two major denominations in the country - Ahmadi Muslims and Sunni Muslims. According to a 2007 report by the United States Department of State's International Religious Freedom Report, there are approximately 350 Muslims in the country. However, different reports suggest that there may be 1000 Ahmadi Muslims in the country alone.\n\nIslam was first introduced by an Ahmadi Muslim missionary, Hafiz Jibrail from Ghana. He visited the country from 1987 for three years and managed to draw a handful of converts to Islam, after which he left for Ghana. The Community then continued to flourish and practice their faith for a period lasting over a decade, with no external contact from members of the international Ahmadiyya Muslim Community. In the years 2000 to 2005, the Community sent another missionary, as a result of which the Community grew to approximately 1000 members. The Community is headquartered in Honiara, the capital of the Solomon Islands, and is present in the villages of Guadalcanal, Russells, Savo and Bellona islands.\n\nSunni Muslims first entered the country in 1995 as a result of dawah efforts from members of the Tablighi Jamaat. Sunni Muslims have publicly differentiated from Ahmadi Muslims and claim to represent the 'true' orthodox Islam. The Community claims to have more members than the Ahmadiyya Community.\n\n"}
{"id": "45180752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45180752", "title": "Israel's Messenger", "text": "Israel's Messenger\n\nIsrael's Messenger (), also known in Chinese as \"Youtai Yuebao\" (), was an English-language newspaper published in Shanghai from 1904 to 1941. It was established by N.E.B. Ezra, who served as the paper's Editor-in-Chief for more than 30 years until his death in 1936, as the official newspaper of the Shanghai Zionist Association. It was one of China's oldest and most sophisticated Jewish periodicals, which also influenced the Jewish press in India.\n\n\"Israel's Messenger\" was founded in 1904 by the Sephardi Jewish businessman Nissim Elias Benjamin Ezra (1883–1936) as the official mouthpiece of the Shanghai Zionist Association, which had been established by Ezra the year before. Ezra served as the paper's Editor-in-Chief for more than 30 years until his death in 1936. In addition to promoting Zionism, the paper reported on the activities of the Jewish communities in Shanghai and the rest of China, as well as world events. It was published fortnightly, and later monthly.\n\n\"Israel's Messenger\" was one of China's oldest and most sophisticated Jewish periodicals. It was also circulated in the United States, where it successfully positioned itself as the most authoritative Jewish voice from East Asia. The chief editor of the newspaper and other Zionist scholars cooperated with Imperial Japan. Japanese military officer Koreshige Inuzuka said he tried to use the Jewish media, including \"Israel's Messenger\", to influence American opinion. Owing to financial difficulties, publication was suspended between February 1910 and September 1918, but the paper survived until its final issue appeared on 17 October 1941.\n\nThe newspaper influenced the Jewish press in India. The Sargon brothers (Benjamin, Joseph, and David) of Bombay, who were nephews of N.E.B. Ezra, grew up reading \"Israel's Messenger\". Greatly influenced by Ezra's journalistic concepts, the brothers edited the \"Jewish Advocate\" (later renamed the \"Jewish Tribune\") in the 1930s, bringing it to a much higher level of professionalism than the older Jewish newspapers of Bombay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5748438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5748438", "title": "John D. Turner", "text": "John D. Turner\n\nJohn D. Turner is a professor of religious studies at the University of Nebraska. He is well known for his translations of the Nag Hammadi library.\n\nTurner has recently contributed to research into the relationship between Neoplatonism and Gnosticism, including a study of the use of terms and concepts by the author or authors of the Sethian Allogenes text.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46662424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46662424", "title": "Karkoṭa Empire", "text": "Karkoṭa Empire\n\nKarkota Empire (c. 625 - 885 CE) was a major power from the Indian subcontinent; which originated in the region of Kashmir. It was founded by Durlabhvardhana during the lifetime of Harshavardhan. The dynasty marked the rise of Kashmir as a power in Northern India. Avanti Varman ascended the throne of Kashmir on 855 A.D., establishing the Utpala dynasty and ending the rule of Karkota dynasty.\n\nLalitaditya Muktapida, the dynasty's strongest ruler captured parts of Central Asia, Afghanistan and Punjab with Chinese help. According to Kalhana's \"Rajatarangini\", Lalitaditya was able to extend the power of Kashmir beyond the normal mountain limits and in about 740 AD inflicted a defeat upon Yashovarman, the King of Kannauj. Lalitaditya was able to vanquish the Turks, Tibetans, Bhutias, Kambojas and others.\n\nThe Karkota emperors were primarily Hindu. They built spectacular Hindu temples in their capital Parihaspur. They however also allowed Buddhism to flourish under them. Stupa, Chaitya and Vihara can be found in the ruins of their capital. Martand Sun Temple in the Anantnag district were built by Lalitaditya. It is the oldest known Sun temple in India and was also one of the biggest temple complexes at the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "1323487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1323487", "title": "Kerista", "text": "Kerista\n\nKerista was a utopian community that was started in New York City in 1956 by John Peltz \"Bro Jud\" Presmont. Throughout much of its history, Kerista was centered on the ideals of polyfidelity and creation of intentional communities. Kerista underwent several incarnations that later became known as the \"Old Tribe,\" which was associated with a fairly large, but fluid membership. What was called the \"New Tribe,\" a period of more stable membership and ideology, began in 1971 based in the Haight Ashbury district of San Francisco.\n\nKerista was founded by John Presmont after an auditory-hallucination telling him that he was the founder of the next great religion of the world. After time spent in New York in the 50's, and several island experiments in Dominica, Honduras and Belize in the 60's, Jud settled in San Francisco at the end of the 60's.\n\nKerista-inspired storefronts and communal houses existed in New York, Los Angeles, and San Francisco Bay Area throughout the 60's, and was moderately popular. The ideology shared by the Old Tribe was remarkably simple: 'Wash your own dish', 'No one belongs to anyone else', 'Kerista is freedom and love'. The main tenets of the Old Tribe embody the hippie ideals of 'good vibes' and the 'righteous high', racial and sexual liberation, and a strong tendency towards dropping out of the straight-world and living a non-conformist life of idealism, spontaneity, and fun. In addition, Old Tribers started the use of a Ouija-board for wisdom and guidance, and use of the 'alphabet-board' continued in the New Tribe.\n\nOne division occurred in the Old Tribe over the Vietnam War. Jud was a patriotic WWII ex-soldier, and he supported US military intervention. However, the vast majority of the Old Tribe were anti-war. Jud's pro-military beliefs were unpopular in leftist circles, and regularly surprised visitors who expected Jud to be left-of-center.\n\nFrom 1971 until 1991, the community was centered at the Kerista Commune (not a single physical building), founded in the Haight Ashbury district of San Francisco, California. The Keristans maintained a very high profile which included publication of a popular free newspaper and several national media appearances.\n\nWhen it was active, Kerista was a focal point for people interested in alternative and non-monogamous lifestyles. The terms polyfidelity and compersion were coined at the Kerista Commune. The commune developed an entire vocabulary around alternative lifestyles—for example their term polyintimacy in their literature was similar to the term popularized as polyamory years later. Entrance to the commune was extremely selective and included a 6-month waiting period and a screening for STDs.\n\nKerista accumulated a codified social contract over its history that all members were expected to agree and comply with, at all times. Starting with a few unwritten rules in 1971 to 26 standards in 1979, the social contract evolved to 84 standards by 1983. There were over 100 standards in 1991. \n\nExamples from the 84 Standards include:\n\nKerista used a group process called Gestalt-O-Rama, loosely taken from Fritz Perls' concept of gestalt (\"enhanced awareness of sensation, perception, bodily feelings, emotion, and behavior, in the present moment.\") For Keristans, gestalt consisted of a lot of conversation in groups. Maintaining personal 'resolve-on-the-lifestyle', a euphemism for being aligned with the social contract, was a daily task for many Keristans. Being 'unresolved-on-the-lifestyle', even momentarily or temporarily, was worthy of immediate gestalt and possible expulsion from the family or commune. Practically, a member could be \"called out\" on any standards violation or non-utopian thought or action by anyone at any time.\n\nKerista produced zines that included drawings and comics. Some concerned day-to-day life. Others presented a lighthearted polytheistic mythology which revolved around a pantheon of benevolent and technologically adept goddesses and gods. The comic Far Out West, written by one of the founders Eve \"Even Eve\" Furchgott, claimed to be \"The First Utopian Comic Strip.\" Features presented in the zine included articles and essays concerning life within the community and their proposed World Plan to establish a functional Utopian society on a larger scale. The volume of publications and art work produced by Kerista Commune was quite a bit greater than other groups that were active in the Haight Ashbury during this period. Kerista claimed singer Joan Jett as the \"Matron Saint\" of their community.\n\nThe Keristans shared income and could choose whether to have outside paying jobs or work within the community (which operated several businesses, a legally incorporated church, and an educational non-profit organization).\n\nThe most successful of the businesses was Abacus, Inc., an early Macintosh computer vendor in San Francisco, which eventually offered a variety of computer hardware, training and services. At its height, Abacus employed over 250 people and had offices in five major California cities. Voted the 33rd and 42nd fastest-growing privately held company in America by Inc. Magazine in 1990 and 1991 respectively, Abacus achieved revenues in excess of $25 million per year. Prior to Apple Computer Corporation abandoning the Value-Added Reseller in 1992, Abacus was the top reseller of Macintosh computers in the Bay Area in 1991.\n\nThe official website lists 44 people as having joined Kerista at various times during the community's history, though more than this number passed through briefly. The commune population numbered 5 at founding in 1971, and numbered 25 at dissolution in 1991. Before dissolution, there were closer to 30 Keristans in residence.\n\nThe commune maintained a very active program of social events and Gestalt-o-rama rap groups, which were open to the public 3-4 nights a week, and were mandatory for Keristans to regularly attend. The commune functioned a lot like a religious order and was an important focal point for a larger community of people in San Francisco interested in alternative lifestyles. The events sponsored by Kerista were almost always free and non-commercial.\n\nIn 1979 and 1980, two children were born in the community. Beginning in 1983, the adult male Keristans had vasectomies to deal with birth control and address global population issues. All male members subsequently had the requirement of having a vasectomy within a set period of time after joining the community.\n\nThe family structure of Kerista was composed of fidelitous groups called B-FICs (Best-Friend Identity Clusters). Keristans practiced non-preferential polyfidelity. Polyfidelity requires consensus to accept a new person into the group, either a man or woman.\n\nNon-preferentiality was an important concept of Keristan polyfidelity, and had lofty goals but was more intended to keep people from coupling-up. Non-preferentiality proved very difficult to achieve. Keristans had a transitional celibacy period after joining a group of three months, sometimes waived.\n\nA single B-FIC was composed of men and women who rotated sleeping with all of the opposite-sex members on a balanced rotational sleeping schedule. The sleeping-schedule assigned each family member to sleep with a different opposite-sex partner each night. Since the BFICs were rarely balanced between men and women (typically more women than men), on any given night several family-members would have no partner to sleep with and were assigned a 'Zero-Night' - when they slept alone. In addition to the programmed sleeping schedule, it was permitted to sleep with any opposite-sex family-member at any time, which was termed a 'freebie'.\n\nJud exerted clear leadership and unparalleled influence over the daily life and direction of the commune and its members. He was a highly verbal and charismatic man, and had boundless confidence in his own opinion. As the oldest Keristan with many marriages and communal experiments behind him, he often dominated commune discussions. Jud typically got into fights with famous people who came to visit or study Kerista, like Steve Gaskin from The Farm, Mario Savio from the Berkeley Free Speech Movement, and the researcher Robert Weiss.\n\nAfter an arranged visit to Kerista by three professors, the New Tribe was criticized for not being egalitarian, notably in Bro Jud's dominance of many commune matters. The same professors questioned whether Kerista was feminist, and whether Kerista made only token contributions to philanthropy. A separate dissertation, written by an ex-Keristan, argued that Jud was not the primary problem, and instead criticized Kerista for institutionalizing '...a fetish for purity', describing 'the core psychological process in Kerista was anxiety-producing and ultimately destructive because it centered around the toxic value of purity, which made the commune a bad place to live.'\n\nIn November 1991, Bro Jud left the Purple Submarine and the Kerista Commune after sharp divisions were exposed within the membership. Conflicts between Abacus and Kerista had grown more acute, as Abacus became more successful and difficult to manage. Other issues discussed during dissolution include allowing less-religious people into the commune and the loosening of superfluous rules.\nAfter many incidents with members beginning to confront Jud's behavior, Jud left Purple and Kerista. Within a few months, the community was dissolved by vote. Bro Jud went on to create \"The World Academy of Keristan Education\". Several former members of the commune still live in the San Francisco Bay Area, while a number moved to Hawaii and purchased a block of adjoining parcels of land.\n\nJohn (Bro Jud) Presmont died on December 13, 2009 in San Francisco. In his last years, Jud had been seen regularly on 'The Bro Jud Show' on San Francisco public-access television cable TV.\n\nScience-fiction author Robert A. Heinlein, in a 1966 letter to his agent Lurton Blassingame, mentioned Kerista in connection with his 1961 novel \"Stranger in a Strange Land\":\nThe person who invited Heinlein to speak may have been Kerry Thornley, co-founder of Discordianism, who at the time lived in Watts. Thornley had joined Kerista in 1966 and was known to be a lifelong science-fiction fan.\n\n"}
{"id": "838638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=838638", "title": "Khatri", "text": "Khatri\n\nKhatri is a caste from the northern Indian subcontinent. Khatris in India and Pakistan are mostly from the Punjab region.\n\nKhatris played an important role in India's trans regional trade during the Mughal Empire. They adopted administrative and military roles outside the Punjab region as well. Scott Cameron Levi describes Khatris among the \"most important merchant communities of early modern India.\"\n\nAll the Sikh Gurus were Khatris.\n\nKhatris consider themselves to be of pure Vedic descent and thus superior to the Rajputs, who also claim Kshatriya status. Their standards of literacy and caste status were such during the early years of the Sikh community that, according to W. H. McLeod, they dominated it. Nath called Khatris a warrior people, a claim further supported by their employment as soldiers by Mughal emperors. However, by the time of British arrival in India, the Khatris were mostly merchants and scribes. Khatris sources explain this transition as follows: the Mughal emperors terminated the services of Khatris chieftains for moving against the imperial order of widow remarriage. Kenneth W. Jones quoted that \"the Khatris claimed with some justice and increasing insistence, the status of Rajputs, or Kshatriyas, a claim not granted by those above but illustrative of their ambiguous position on the great varna scale of class divisions\" Khatris claim that they were warriors who took to trade. The 19th-century Indians and the British administrators failed to agree whether the Khatri claim of Kshatriya status should be accepted, since the overwhelming majority of them were engaged in Vaishya (mercantile) occupations. There are Khatris that are found in other states of India and they follow different professions in each region. The Khatris of Gujarat and Rajasthan are said to have tailoring skills like \"Darji\" (tailor) caste. Dasrath Sharma described Khatris as a mixed \"pratiloma\" caste of low ritual status but suggested that Khatris could be a mixed caste born of Kshatriya fathers and Brahmin mothers.\n\nAccording to \"Bichitra Natak\", said to be the autobiography of the last Sikh Guru Gobind Singh, but whose authenticity is a matter of ongoing dispute, the Bedi sub-caste of the Khatris derives its lineage from Kush, the son of Rama in the Hindu mythology. The descendants of Kush, according to the disputed Bachitar Natak legend, learned the Vedas at Benares, and were thus called Bedis (Vedis). Similarly, according to the same legend, the Sodhi sub-caste claims descent from Lav, the other son of Rama.\n\nThere are different versions on history of khatris. One of the versions describes that khatris played an important role in India's trans regional trade under the Mughal Empire. With the patronage of Mughal nobles, the Khatris adopted administrative and military roles outside the Punjab region. According to a 19th-century Khatri legend, the Khatris followed the military profession until the time of the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. Several Khatris were killed during the Aurangzeb's Deccan Campaign, and the emperor ordered their widows to be remarried. When the Khatris refused to obey this order, Aurangzeb terminated their military service, and directed them to be shopkeepers and brokers. The other version says that the Khatri were engaged in the weaving of silk saris in ancient time period, and subsequently some of them became merchants.. In the All-India meeting of Aroras in 1936, held by the Khatris at Lahore (Pakistan), it was decided that the Aroras, Soods and Bhatias were Khatri for all intents and purposes. And, as such, they should be admitted to the Khatri stock. This interpretation did not find much favour then, but with the lapse of time, it has almost been accepted.\n\nThe vast majority of Khatris are Hindu. Most Hindu Khatris migrated to India after partition and settled in urban areas across India. They were estimated to constitute 9% of the total population of Delhi in 2003.\n\nAll the ten Sikh Gurus were Khatris. Guru Nanak was a Bedi, Guru Angad was a Trehan, Guru Amar Das was a Bhalla, and the rest of the Gurus were Sodhis. During the lifetime of the Gurus, most of their major supporters and Sikhs were Khatris. A list of this is provided by a contemporary of the Sikh Gurus, Bhai Gurdas, in his \"Varan Bhai Gurdas\".\n\nOther Khatris influential in the history of Sikhism include:\n\n\nThe Muslim Khatris are originally from Hindu Khatri community who had converted to Islam. In western districts of the Punjab (Sargodha, Mianwali, Multan, Jhang, Chakwal, Rawalpindi and Faislabad), converted Khatri traders called themselves Khawaja. Some times they are called Khawaja Sheikh.\n\n"}
{"id": "1561468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561468", "title": "Koreshanity", "text": "Koreshanity\n\nKoreshanity is the set of religious/pseudo-scientific beliefs put forth by Cyrus Teed (also known as Koresh). Followers of this belief were called \"Koreshans\", and most of them formed a utopian communal society called the Koreshan Unity.\n\nThe main beliefs of Koreshanity, or \"Koreshan Universalogy\", are put forth in the many writings of Cyrus Teed and his followers. They are:\n\n\nThe sun is an invisible electromagnetic battery revolving in the universe's center on a 24-year cycle. Our visible sun is only a reflection, as is the moon, with the stars reflecting off seven mercurial discs that float in the sphere's center. Inside the earth there are three separate atmospheres: the first composed of oxygen and nitrogen and closest to the earth; the second, a hydrogen atmosphere above it; the third, an aboron (sic) atmosphere at the center. The earth's shell is one hundred miles thick and has seventeen layers. The outer seven are metallic with a gold rind on the outermost layer, the middle five are mineral and the five inward are geologic strata. Inside the shell there is life, outside a void.\n\n\n\n Teed proposed the creation of a \"New Jerusalem\" as an ideal commune for his followers, to be located on the Mississippi river. In 1894 Teed moved to Florida where he accumulated land for yet another community. He was influenced, according to historian Robert S. Fogarty, by Emanuel Swedenborg, as was Thomas Lake Harris, and these ideas helped craft his own notion of a \"new spiritual heaven…called New Jerusalem.\". Teed shows the degree to which the concept of 'New Jerusalem' not only translated into the ideal of creating a heavenly place on earth but the re-labeling of heaven to constitute a New Jerusalem up above.\nThe day to day affairs of the settlement were governed by a council of women called \"The Seven Sisters.\" The Seven Sisters lived in a common house referred to as The Planetary Court.\n\nPrior to the death of the last Koreshan the settlement was deeded to the state of Florida and is now a state historic site. In addition to the historic buildings of the settlement the state park includes canoeing on the Estero river which flows directly next to the settlement as well as the presence of many gopher tortoises who make their burrows throughout the park.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25778348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25778348", "title": "Kurmasana", "text": "Kurmasana\n\nKurmasana ( ; ; ; IAST: \"kūrmāsana\"), Tortoise Pose, or Turtle Pose is an asana.\n\nThe name comes from the Sanskrit words \"Kurma\" (कूर्म, Kūrma) meaning \"turtle\" or \"tortoise\" and \"Asana\" (आसन, Āsana) meaning \"posture\" or \"seat\".\n\nTo enter kūrmāsana a practitioner sits with the legs outstretched, feet as wide apart as possible. The knees are bent slightly, keeping the heels in contact with the floor. The body is leaned forward from the hips and the hands slid under the knees. The body leans forward (bending at the hips) to allow the hands and arms to slide sideways and backward (under the knees) until the elbows lie near the back of the knees. The heels are pushed forward and legs are straightened as much as possible. The forehead or chin is brought to touch the floor. The arms are further brought around the back to interlock the hands under the buttocks.\n\nVariations of Kūrmāsana include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28384513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28384513", "title": "List of mosques in Azerbaijan", "text": "List of mosques in Azerbaijan\n\nThis is a list of mosques in Azerbaijan.\n\n"}
{"id": "8920489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8920489", "title": "Lopön Tenzin Namdak", "text": "Lopön Tenzin Namdak\n\nLopön Tenzin Namdak (, born 1926 in Khyungpo Karu - - in Kham) is a Tibetan religious leader and the most senior teacher of Bon, in particular of Dzogchen and the Mother Tantras.\n\nTenzin Namdak's father was a farmer in Chamdo and his uncle, Kelzang Tsültrim (), was the \"chant leader\" () among the monks at Tengchen Monastery (). The monastery belonged to the tradition of Yungdrung Bön () rather than the New Bön tradition () associated with Shardza Tashi Gyaltsen, and had close affiliations with Menri Monastery and Yungdrung Monastery () in Ü-Tsang.\n\nIn 1933, at age seven, Tenzin Namdak went to Tengchen and in 1941 he went to Yungdrung Monastery, where he helped execute a series of wall paintings for a new temple. In 1944 he went on pilgrimage to Nepal including Solu-Khombu, Pokhara, Mustang and Kathmandu.\n\nIn 1933 he returned to Yungdrung Monastery to commence studies in philosophy (). During 1945–50, he lived a principally eremitic existence, cloistered with his tutor and guru Gangru Tsültrim Gyeltsen (), with whom he studied poetry (), cosmology (), grammar (), monastic discipline () and the principal stages on the path to enlightenment ().\n\nIn 1950, Tenzin Namdak went to Menri Monasteryin Tsang. On the instruction of his teacher he commenced his studies. In 1953 he was elected to the position of lopön (head teacher) and received the degree of geshe.\n\nTenzin Namdak left Menri in 1959 due to increasing conflicts between the indigenous Tibetan people and the encroaching Han Chinese since the Battle of Chamdo in 1950. He went to Serzhig Monastery on Lake Dangra - a sacred lake for the Bonpo - in northern Tsang, where he remained in spiritual retreat until 1960.\n\nAfter the 1959 Tibetan uprising, many lamas, including the 14th Dalai Lama and Rangjung Rigpe Dorje, 16th Karmapa, along with numerous Tibetan refugees departed their homeland to seek refuge in India and Nepal. Riding this exodus, Tenzin Namdak tried to reach safety in India in 1960, but was shot and captured by Chinese Communist soldiers and imprisoned for ten months. He later escaped to Nepal via the small principality of Mustang.\n\nWhile in Kathmandu in 1961, Tenzin Namdak was invited to London by his colleague, the English tibetologist David Snellgrove, through a Rockefeller Foundation grant, where he became a visiting scholar at SOAS, University of London. He resided for a period at the University of Cambridge. The collaboration with Snellgrove resulted in the publication of \"The Nine Ways of Bön\", which includes extracts translated from the esteemed \"Ziji\" (, \"The Magnificence\"), an extensive hagiography of the founder of Bon, Tonpa Shenrab Miwoche. This was the first scholarly study of the Yungdrung Bon tradition conducted in the West. He stayed in England for three years, until 1964.\n\nIn 1969 Tenzin Namdak made a second visit to Europe at the invitation of professor Helmut Hoffmann, where he was a visiting scholar at Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, and with whom he collaborated on the \"Dictionary of Written Tibetan\".\n\nDuring those days a social worker named Dr keppler was working to help the Dorthang Bon community of Nepal. On the accusation of cow slaughter, he was deported from Nepal, but he wanted to continue his service towards the Bon community, since he knew that the Bon community in India was in a needful state and facing discrimination from other fellow Tibetans. The 32nd Menri Trizin, head of Menri Monastery, had just died and his successor had not yet been appointed. There was no spiritual head of the Bonpos at that time, making it more difficult to contact the community. So through some searching and some information he got from some CTA officials, he met Tenzin Namdak in Delhi(Hauz Khas). There he discussed with Tenzin Namdak about the difficulty faced by the Bon community. Hence he made the blueprint of the Tibetan Bonpo foundation and Tenzin Namdak was suggested as the acting director. At that time Dr Keppler donated Rs 20000 INR for building a Bon monastery in future. Soon after Dr Kepplar arranged funds from the Catholic Relief Services for the Bonpos to purchase a land where they could rebuild their community. Dolanji was selected.\n\nAfter difficulties in acquiring the land, Gungthang Tsultrim helped register the land for the organisation \"Bod kyi Bonpo Tsokpa\" by including Dolanji in the organisation called Tsokpa Chuksum, in which other settlements were registered, such as the Bir settlement in Himachal and Clement Town in Dehradhun etc. Dolanji, near Solan in Himachal Pradesh.\n\nIn 1967 the settlement was formally established and registered with the Indian Government under the name of the Tibetan Bönpo Foundation. About seventy families transferred there from Manali and each received a house and a small piece of land, the size depending on size of the family. The Tibetan Bönpo Foundation possessed its own constitution and administration. The Abbot of Menri acted as president. The new settlement at Dolanji was named Topgyel Sarpa () after the village of Topgyel. Most of the inhabitants in the new settlement came from the Mount Kailash region and Upper Tsang in the west, and from Hor, Kongpo, Derge and Amdo(Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture) in the east.\n\nAfter the death of the abbot of Menri in 1963, Sherap Lodro, abbot of Yungdrung Ling, became the spiritual head of the Bön community in exile. Sherap Lodro came to Dolanji with a band of monks who founded a new monastic community. An intimate prayer chapel and a few small houses were built. In 1969 the successor to the abbot of Menri was established by lot and the office fell to Lungtok Tenpé Nyima (), who was installed as the 33rd Menri Trizin.\n\nFollowing the death of Yungdrung Ling abbot, Sangye Tenzin assumed the spiritual leadership of the Bönpos. More houses were established, along with a library and abbot's residence. Monastic life was structured around the prātimokṣa of the Yungdrung Bon vinaya. The foundation for the principal temple was inaugurated in 1969 and completed in 1978 and named Pel Shenten Menri Ling (). The complex was styled the Bönpo Monastic Centre and formed part of the Tibetan Bönpo Foundation.\n\nFrom 1970-9, Tenzin Namdak continued writing and teaching while in residence at the Bönpo Monastic Centre. Concurrently, he was engaged in the publishing of significant Bönpo texts. From 1967, when the first monks came to Dolanji, teaching had been done by Lopön Sangye Tenzin, the former head teaching master at Menri, and assisted by Tenzin Namdak, who became his successor.\n\nWhen Sangye Tenzin died in 1968, Yongdzin was assigned responsibility for the education of the younger generation of monks. By 1978 a sufficient number of Bönpo texts had been published so that a curriculum could be organized around them. Thus a lama's college (shedrup; \"bshad sgrub\") was established in 1978, organized under the guidance of Lopön Rinpoche who served as one of the two professors. The official name of the college is Yungdrung Bön Shedrup Lobnyer Dude (\"gyung drung bon bshad sgrub slob gnyer 'dud sde\").\n\nThe purpose of the college at Dolanji was to preserve the tradition of philosophy established and developed at Yeru Wensaka (\"gyas ru dben sa kha\"), where philosophical analysis and logic were applied to the understanding of \"Do Ngag Semsum\" (\"mdo sngags sems gsum\"), that is, to the teachings of the Sutras, the Tantras and Dzogchen. Unlike the Nyingmapa tradition, the Bönpos developed a system of logic and debate specifically relating to the Dzogchen teaching. At Menri in Tibet, all instruction in Tantra and Dzogchen was done in private except for the philosophy college where the monks studied the five scripture system Dozhung Nga (\"mdo gzhung lnga\")\n\n\nHowever, in Dolanji students also study Tantra and Dzogchen in the college, as well as the five scriptural systems that pertain to Sutra. Also included in the curriculum are the secular sciences (\"rignai\"; \"rig gnas\"), such as grammar, poetics, astrology, and so on. The college has a nine-year term of studies that prepares the student for a degree in Geshe. The first group of young monks graduated in 1986.\n\nAnother Bönpo monastery and college known as Triten Norbutse (\"khri brtan nor bu rtse\"), located near Swayambhu, west of Kathmandu, Nepal was established under Yongdzin's direction. In 2005 he founded in France the new bonpo Shenten Dargye Ling. In 2010 he consecrated the stupa in Shenten Dargye Ling with Lungtok Tenpai Nyima, 33rd Abbot of Menri and consecrated in same year the Great Stupa in Chamma Ling, Valle de Bravo, Mexico with Nyima and many bonpo teachers and Geshes.\n\nIn 1989, Yongdzin traveled to England, America and Italy, at the invitation of the International Dzogchen Community of Chögyal Namkai Norbu Rinpoche in those countries. During his six-month trip he presented to interested Western students the Dzogchen teaching according to the Bönpo traditions of the Atri (\"a khrid\") and the Zhang Zhung Nyengyu (\"shang zhung snyan rgyud\").\n\nIn 1991, he visited Germany, England, the Netherlands and Italy. During his visit to these countries he spoke and taught on various meditation systems and fields of study of the Bön tradition. Later that year he was invited by the Dalai Lama to represent the Bön tradition at the Kalachakra Initiation in New York. In this way, Yongdzin spread Bönpo teachings in many countries. His permanent residences are in Kathmandu, France (Blou) and Dolanji.\n\nThe Collected Works of Menri Yongdzin Lopon Tenzin Namdak Rinpoche: Vol. 1-13 (Tibetan language)\nIn English:\n\n"}
{"id": "297883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297883", "title": "Maureen Dowd", "text": "Maureen Dowd\n\nMaureen Brigid Dowd (; born January 14, 1952) is an American columnist for \"The New York Times\", and an author.\n\nDuring the 1970s and the early 1980s, Dowd worked for \"Time\" magazine and the \"Washington Star\", where she covered news and sports and wrote feature articles. Dowd joined \"The New York Times\" in 1983 as a Metropolitan Reporter, and became an op-ed writer for the newspaper in 1995. In 1999, Dowd was awarded a Pulitzer Prize for her series of columns on the Monica Lewinsky scandal in the Clinton administration.\n\nDowd was born the youngest of five children in Washington, D.C. Her mother, Margaret \"Peggy\" (Meenehan), was a housewife, and her father, Mike Dowd, worked as a Washington, D.C. police inspector. Dowd graduated from (now defunct) Immaculata High School in 1969. She received a B.A. in English in 1973 from The Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C.\n\nDowd began her career in 1974 as an editorial assistant for the \"Washington Star\", where she later became a sports columnist, metropolitan reporter, and feature writer. When the newspaper closed in 1981, she went to work at \"Time\". In 1983, she joined \"The New York Times\", initially as a metropolitan reporter. She began serving as correspondent in the \"Times\" Washington bureau in 1986.\n\nIn 1991, Dowd received a Breakthrough Award from Columbia University. In 1992, she was a Pulitzer Prize finalist for national reporting, and in 1994 she won a Matrix Award from New York Women in Communications.\n\nDowd became a columnist on \"The New York Times\" op-ed page in 1995, replacing Anna Quindlen, who left to become a full-time novelist. Dowd was named a Woman of the Year by \"Glamour\" magazine in 1996, and won the 1999 Pulitzer Prize, for distinguished commentary. She won The Damon Runyon Award for outstanding contributions to journalism in 2000, and became the first Mary Alice Davis Lectureship speaker (sponsored by the School of Journalism and the Center for American History) at The University of Texas at Austin in 2005. In 2010, Dowd was ranked #43 on \"The Daily Telegraph\"s list of the 100 most influential liberals in America; in 2007, she was ranked #37 on the same list.\n\nDowd's columns have been described as letters to her mother, whom friends credit as \"the source, the fountain of Maureen's humor and her Irish sensibilities and her intellectual take.\" Dowd herself has said, \"She is in my head in the sense that I want to inform and amuse the reader.\" Dowd's columns are distinguished by an acerbic, often polemical writing style. Her columns display a critical and irreverent attitude towards powerful, mostly political, figures such as former Presidents George W. Bush and Bill Clinton. Dowd also tends to refer to her subjects by nicknames. For example, she has often referred to Bush as \"W.\" and former Vice President Dick Cheney as \"Big Time\". She has called former President Barack Obama \"Spock\" and \"Barry\". Dowd's interest in candidates' personalities earned her criticism early in her career: \"She focuses too much on the person but not enough on policy.\"\n\nDowd, who perceives her columns to be an exploration of politics, Hollywood, and gender-related topics, often uses popular culture to support and metaphorically enhance her political commentary. In a \"Times\" video debate, she said of the North Korean government, \"... you could look at a movie like \"Mean Girls\" and figure out the way these North Koreans are reacting; you know it's like high school girls with nuclear weapons—they just want some attention from us, you know?\"\n\nDowd's columns have also been described as often being political cartoons that capture a caricatured view of the current political landscape with precision and exaggeration. For example, in the run-up to the 2000 presidential election Dowd wrote that Democratic candidate \"Al Gore is so feminized and diversified and ecologically correct that he's practically lactating,\" while referring to the Democratic party as the \"mommy party\". In a Fresh Dialogues interview years later she said, \"I was just teasing him a little bit because he was so earnest and he could be a little righteous and self important. That’s not always the most effective way to communicate your ideas, even if the ideas themselves are right. I mean, certainly his ideas were right but he himself was – sometimes – a pompous messenger for them.\"\n\nIn January 2014, Dowd said she ate about one-quarter of a cannabis-infused chocolate bar, while touring the legalized recreational cannabis industry. She said she was later told she should have only eaten one-sixteenth, which was not in the instructions on the label. She then described her negative experiences with legal cannabis in a June 3, 2014, \"The New York Times\" op-ed. In September 2014, Dowd followed up on this story with another \"New York Times\" op-ed, this time describing a discussion of using consumable cannabis with her \"marijuana Miyagi\" Willie Nelson.\n\nOn March 4, 2014, Dowd published a column about the dominance of men in the film industry; in it, she quoted Amy Pascal, co-chairman of Sony Pictures Entertainment. According to BuzzFeed, \"leaked emails from Sony\" suggested that Dowd had promised to provide the draft column to Pascal's husband, former \"Times\" reporter Bernard Weinraub, prior to the column's publication. BuzzFeed said the column \"painted Pascal in such a good light that she engaged in a round of mutual adulation with Dowd over email after its publication.\" Both Dowd and Weinraub have denied that Weinraub ever received the column. On December 12, 2014, \"Times\" public editor Margaret Sullivan concluded, \"While the tone of the email exchanges is undeniably gushy, I don’t think Ms. Dowd did anything unethical here.\" In August 2014, it was announced that Dowd would become a staff writer for \"The New York Times Magazine.\" Her first article under the new arrangement was published more than a year later.\n\nOn May 2, 2015, Dowd published a column in the \"Times\" about her niece Tara, who had a stroke at age 41 caused by an arterial dissection in her brain. Prior to the stroke, Tara had been a very active athlete. The first neurologist who saw Tara told her to cut back on physical activity, but a second neurologist, Dr. Louis R. Caplan, a Harvard neurologist, disagreed with the first neurologist and said that they had misinterpreted the images of her brain and vascular system. He told her to return to exercise, which she did safely. In the article, Dr. Caplan suggested that going to the emergency rooms was \"dangerous\" and compared ERs to \"local gas stations\" where you should not get your brain, a \"Rolls-Royce,\" serviced. He suggested that one should be 'pushy' and since E.R. people have to deal with a lot of organs quickly, and they get little neurology training, you should ask for a neurologist. He said that stroke experts \"have had a hard time getting the message across to E.R. personnel that if a stroke is suspected, a vascular image must be taken as well as a brain image, because it shows up first in the vessels that supply and drain the brain\". Ultimately he recommended that you should \"find an academic medical center that has a specialization in stroke\". These comments unleashed a firestorm of comments from emergency medicine physicians on social media, who thought that Caplan's comments were poorly informed and reckless, particularly sending the message not to go to the ER for symptoms of stroke, which directly contradicts recommendations from the American Heart Association to \"call 9-1-1\" when experiencing signs of stroke. In a related column in \"The Huffington Post\", Dr. David Newman, an ER physician from Mount Sinai, wrote that Dr. Caplan's comments showed \"poor insight\" and \"narrow expertise\", claiming that subspecialty medicine as a whole was expensive and often unnecessarily invasive.\n\nDowd has been accused of sexism by numerous figures, including Clark Hoyt, then-public editor of \"The New York Times\". A 2017 study which examined sexualized shaming of Monica Lewinsky in mainstream news coverage noted that in Dowd's extensive coverage of Monica Lewinsky, she repeatedly \"mocked and disparaged her.\" A 2009 study of sexism towards Hillary Clinton and Sarah Palin in the 2008 election noted that Dowd had disparaged Palin as a \"Barbie\" over her pageantry past.\n\nNumerous other commentators have criticized Dowd for having an obsession with Bill and especially Hillary Clinton. During the 2008 Democratic primary, Dowd published an article titled \"Can Hillary Clinton Cry Herself Back to the White House?\", which a 2016 study said \"serve to reinforce the stereotype that tears and visible emotions are feminine traits and signs of weakness\". Dowd also published a column where she likened Clinton to the \"Terminator\", a ruthless cyborg where \"unless every circuit is out, she’ll regenerate enough to claw her way out of the grave\"; a 2013 study argued that portrayals such as these sought to portray Clinton and her presidential bid as improper and unnatural. According to then-public editor of \"The New York Times\" Clark Hoyt, Dowd's columns about Clinton were \"loaded with language painting her as a 50-foot woman with a suffocating embrace, a conniving film noir dame and a victim dependent on her husband\". A 2014 analysis by the left-leaning advocacy group \"Media Matters\" of 21 years of Maureen Dowd's columns about Hillary Clinton found that of the 195 columns by Dowd since November 1993 containing significant mentions of Clinton, 72 percent (141 columns) were negative towards Clinton.\n\nDowd formerly dated Aaron Sorkin, the creator and producer of \"The West Wing.\" She has also been briefly connected with the actor Michael Douglas and is an ex-companion of her fellow \"Times\" columnist John Tierney.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2860960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2860960", "title": "Mazyar", "text": "Mazyar\n\nMazyar (Middle Persian: \"Māh-Izād\"; Mazandarani/), was an Iranian prince from the Qarinvand dynasty, who was the ruler (\"ispahbadh\") of the mountainous region of Tabaristan from 825/6 to 839. For his resistance to the Abbasid Caliphate, Mazyar is considered one of the national heroes of Iran by twentieth-century Iranian nationalist historiography. His name means \"protected by the \"yazata\" of the moon\".\n\nMazyar belonged to the Qarinvand dynasty, which was descended from Sukhra, a powerful magnate from the House of Karen, who was the \"de facto\" ruler of the Sasanian Empire from 484 to 493. However, due to his great influence and power, he was exiled and executed by the Sasanian king Kavadh I (r. 488–496 & 498–531). Sukhra was survived by eight sons, one of them being Karin, who in return for aiding Kavadh I's son and successor Khosrow I (r. 531–579) against the Western Turkic Khaganate in the 550s, received land to the south of Amol in Tabaristan, thus starting the Qarinvand dynasty.\n\nMazyar succeeded his father Qarin ibn Vindadhhurmuzd in ca. 817. However, his territories were soon invaded by the neighbouring Bavandid ruler Shahriyar I, who defeated Mazyar and forced him to flee. Mazyar took refuge with his cousin Vinda-Umid, who betrayed him and handed him over to Shahriyar. However, Mazyar managed to escape and reach the court of the Abbasid caliph al-Ma'mun. There he met one of his astrologers, Yahya ibn al-Munajjim, a Persian who had recently converted to Islam and belonged to the Banu Munajjim family. Mazyar soon also embraced Islam, and al-Ma'mun gave him the title of \"Servant of the Commander of the Faithful\" (\"mawlā amīr al-muʾminīn\") and the Muslim name of Abu'l-Hasan Muhammad. \n\nMazyar was also granted two towns of Ruyan and Damavand in Tabaristan as his fief, and was named as the co-governor of Tabaristan with the Abbasid statesman Musa ibn Hafs. In 822/3, Mazyar returned to Tabaristan with Abbasid reinforcements, and began to deal with his enemies—he had his brother Quhyar exiled, and did the same to Shahriyar I's son Qarin I, who was his nephew. In 825/6, Mazyar invaded the domains of the Bavandids, and captured Shahriyar's son and successor, Shapur. His uncle, Vinda-Umid, was also defeated, and shortly afterwards killed. Mazyar thus united the highlands under his own rule. He then assumed the titles of \"Gil-Gilan\", \"Ispahbadh\", and \"Padishkhwargarshah\", all titles used by the 8th-century Dabuyid king of Tabaristan, Farrukhan the Great (r. 712-728).\n\nShapur, knowing that Mazyar planned to have him killed, sent a secret message to Musa, willing to pay him 100,000 dirhams if he would assert him as his own prisoner. Musa responded by saying his best shot would be to convert to Islam and become a client of the caliph. Musa, nervous of Mazyar learning of his secret communication with Shapur, asked him how he would react if Shapur converted to Islam and offered to become a client of the caliph. Mazyar gave no answer, but had Shapur beheaded the same day, which greatly angered Musa. Mazyar, fearful of the consequences of having Shapur killed without consensus, apologized to Musa.\n\nMazyar now began constructing mosques in several towns, and successfully plundered the territories of the Daylamites, and had a large number of them resettled in the border place of Muzn. In 826/7, Musa died and was succeeded by his son Muhammad ibn Musa, to whom Mazyar paid no attention. Mazyar continued to expand his influence, but his policies were regarded by the Muslims of Tabaristan as oppressive. The Muslims of Tabaristan and the Bavandid prince Qarin I now began complaining to al-Ma'mun about Mazyar's behavior, but did not manage to turn al-Ma'mun against Mazyar.\n\nAfter al-Ma'mun became involved in a war against the Byzantine Empire, Mazyar used the opportunity to imprison Muhammad ibn Musa on the charge of being secretly involved with the Alids. Al-Ma'mun soon acknowledged Mazyar's rule over Tabaristan and its surrounding regions. When al-Ma'mun died in 833, he was succeeded by his half-brother al-Mu'tasim, who also acknowledged Mazyar as the ruler of Tabaristan.\n\nHowever, when the Tahirid ruler Abdallah ibn Tahir demanded the payment of the land tax (\"kharaj\") from Mazyar, the latter refused. Abdallah, claiming Tabaristan as his own fief, then demanded that Mazyar should release Muhammad ibn Musa. Mazyar, however, once again refused to obey Abdallah, and the latter went before al-Mu'tasim to accuse Mazyar of infidelity and tyranny.\n\nFeeling threatened, Mazyar rebelled against the Abbasid Caliphate, an act which was widely supported by the native Zoroastrians, who began plundering the Muslim villages and the Abbasid-controlled border regions. Mazyar tried to secure the loyalty of the noblemen of Tabaristan and imprisoned anyone he did not trust. According to the medieval historian Ibn Isfandiyar in his \"Tarikh-e-Tabaristan\", Mazyar is said to have proclaimed: \n\nAbdallah and al-Mu'tasim sent five armies that entered Tabaristan from all sides. Mazyar named his brother Quhyar as the defender of the Qarinvand mountains, and the Bavandid Qarin I as the defender of eastern Tabaristan. However, Tabaristan fell quickly to the Abbasid invasion: several cities were taken by surprise, while Qarin I betrayed Mazyar and agreed to aid the Abbasids in exchange for being restored as the ruler of his family's domains. The people of Sari revolted against Mazyar, and Mazyar was betrayed by his brother Quhyar, who captured him and surrendered him to al-Mu'tasim.\n\nMazyar was brought to Samarra, where he was executed. His body later was gibbeted along with the body of Babak Khorramdin. Mazyar's brother Quhyar was shortly after killed by his own Daylamite soldiers because of his betrayal of Mazyar. This marked the end of the Qarivand dynasty. This left the Tahirids as the rulers of Tabaristan, and Qarin I was restored as the ruler of the Bavand dynasty as a Tahirid vassal.\n\n"}
{"id": "41399410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41399410", "title": "Mithyatva", "text": "Mithyatva\n\nMithyatva means \"false belief\", and an important concept in Jainism and Hinduism. Disappearance (\"nivrtti\") is the necessary presupposition of \"mithyatva\" because what is falsely perceived ceases to exist with the dawn of right knowledge. \"Mithyatva\", states Jayatirtha, cannot be easily defined as 'indefinable', 'non-existent', 'something other than real', 'which cannot be proved, produced by avidya or as its effect', or as 'the nature of being perceived in the same locus along with its own absolute non-existence'.\n\nMithyatva is a concept in Jainism distinguishing right knowledge from false knowledge, and parallels the concepts of \"Avidya\" in the Vedanta school of Hinduism, \"Aviveka\" in its Samkhya school, and \"Maya\" in Buddhism.\n\nThe opposite of \"Mithyatva\" (false belief) is \"Samyaktva\" (right belief).\n\nMithyatva is an important concept on false knowledge in Jainism. The Jaina scholar Hemachandra defined Mithyatva as \"belief in false divinities, false gurus and false scriptures\".\n\nJainism describes seven types of beliefs - \"mithyatva\", \"sasvadana-samyaktva\", \"mishra-mithyatva\", \"kashopashmika-samyaktva\", \"aupshamika-samyaktva\", \"vedak-samyaktva\" and \"kshayik-samyaktva\". \"Mithyatva\", meaning false or wrong belief, is the soul’s original and beginning less state of deluded world-view, at which stage the soul is in a spiritual slumber, unaware of its own bondage.\n\n\"Mithyatva\" or \"false belief, delusion\" are of five kinds in Jainism, according to one classification:\n\nSvetambara Jains classify categories of false belief under \"Mithyatva\" differently: \"Abhigrahika\" (belief limited to their own scriptures that they can defend, but refusing to study and analyse other scriptures); \"Anabhigrahika\" (belief that equal respect must be shown to all gods, teachers, scriptures); \"Abhiniviseka\" (belief of those who can discern but refuse to do so from preconceptions); \"Samsayika\" (state of hesitation or uncertainty between various conflicting, inconsistent beliefs); and \"Anabhogika\" (innate, default beliefs that a person has not thought through on one's own).\n\nDigambara Jains classify categories of false belief under \"Mithyatva\" into seven: \"Ekantika\" (absolute, one sided belief), \"Samsayika\" (uncertainty, doubt whether a course is right or wrong, unsettled belief, skepticism), \"Vainayika\" (belief that all gods, gurus and scriptures are alike), \"Grhita\" (belief derived purely from habits or default, no self analysis), \"Viparita\" (belief that true is false, false is true, everything is relative or acceptable), \"Naisargika\" (belief that living beings are devoid of consciousness and cannot discern right from wrong), \"Mudha-drsti\" (belief that violence and anger can tarnish or damage thoughts, divine, guru or dharma).\n\nMithyatva is one of three things, in Jainism, that are harmful stimuli and that distract a person from attaining right belief and correct knowledge. The other two things that distract, are \"Maya\" (deceit), and \"Nidana\" (hankering after fame and worldly pleasures).\n\nOne Jaina text lists 28 kinds of \"mohaniya\" (deluding) \"karmas\" that prevent the true perception of reality and the purity of the soul, the \"darsana mohaniya karman\" which function to prevent a soul’s insight into its own nature and therefore, deemed destructive, are \"mithyatva karman\". The term, \"mithyatva\", meaning 'perversity', is generally used to denote the idea of \"avidya\" along with \"mithyadarsana\" or \"mithyadrsti\" (wrong view), \"darsanamoha\" (delusion of vision), \"moha\" (delusion) etc.;. The state of \"mithyatva\" is manifested as a fundamental tendency to see things other than as they really are (Tattva Sutra 8:9). Passions such as Aversion (dvesa) and Attachment (raga), which are also called pursuers from the limitless past (anantanubandhi), operate in conjunction with mithyatva. \"Mithyatva\" is the one-sided or perverted world-view which generates new layers of \"karma\" and considered in Jainism as the root of human arrogance.\n\nMithyatva is a concept found in some schools of Hinduism. Other concepts in Hinduism, similar in meaning to Mithyatva, include the concepts of \"Avidya\" in the Vedanta school of Hinduism, \"Aviveka\" in its Samkhya school.\n\nIgnorance begets \"aviveka\" (lack of correct, discriminative knowledge) states Samkhya school of Hinduism. One engages in deeds, good and bad, due to \"aviveka\", earns \"punya\" or becomes a victim of sin and is reborn. Aviveka also means lack of reason or imprudence or indiscretion. Avidya is related concept in Vedanta school of Hinduism. Avidya and aviveka give \"dukkha\" i.e. suffering.\n\nMadhusudanah in his \"Advaita-siddhi\" gives five definitions of \"mithyatva\" which term is derived from \"mithya\" meaning false or indeterminable. False is something that appears and is later negated or contradicted; the unreal is never an object of experience, the concept of unreal is self-contradictory. Falsity is defined as – not being the locus of either reality or unreality, it is distinct from both reality and unreality. In practice, \"mithyatva\" has three means, – a) that which does not exist in three divisions of time, past, present and future; b) that which is removable by knowledge; and c) that which is identical with the object of sublation. Whereas \"mithya\" is other than real but not real, \"mithyatva\" is identical with sublatability. \"Mithyatva\" may also be understood as that which is negated even where it is found to exist. The followers of the Advaita School contend that the world-appearance is negated by Brahman-knowledge and hence it is illusory. To the followers of Vishishtadvaitavada, \"mithya\" is the apprehension of an object as different from its own nature.\n\nThe Advaita School considers \"Mithyatva\" to mean falsity of the world. Disappearance (\"nivrtti\") is the necessary presupposition of \"mithyatva\" because what is falsely perceived ceases to exist with the dawn of right knowledge. But, \"mithya\" or falsity, or \"mithyatva\" or falsity of the world, cannot be easily defined as indefinable or non-existent or something other than real or which cannot be proved or produced by \"avidya\" (or as its effect) or as the nature of being perceived in the same locus along with its own absolute non-existence. The opponents of the \"Advaita\" do not accept the contention that Atman is simply consciousness and cannot be the substratum of knowledge, and they insist that existence as the logical concomitant of the absence of non-existence and vice versa, with these two being mutually exclusive predicates, must be admitted. The opposite of unreality must be reality.\n\nAccording to \"Advaita\" anything which is both cognized and sublated is \"mithya\". \"Mithyatva\" is negated even where it is found. The illusoriness of the world is itself illusory. Once Brahman-knowledge arises both the cognizer and the cognized disappear.\n\nThe proof of unreality is impermanence, the permanent one is the Sole Reality. \"Mithyatva\" is apparent reality; at the level of ultimate truth, when, through the understanding of the mithyatva of all limiting adjuncts (upadhis) of name and form i.e., those that pertain to the individual body-mind (\"tvam\") and as well to the lordship of Brahman (\"tat\"), everything is seen to be not an other to pure Awareness, the distinctions of Jiva and Ishvara no longer apply, and it is the \"param Brahman\", the very essential of the Lord Itself, that is the final reality. In \"Advaita\" the method to reveal the unreality (\"mithyatva\") of things involves the idea of change and permanence i.e. what deviates and what persists.\n\n\"Mithyatva\" means 'illusoriness'. \"Advaita\" maintains that Brahman alone is real, the plurality of the universe is because the universe is illusory, the universe can be cognized; whatever that is cognized is illusory. The universe is different from the real as well as the real, the universe is indeterminable. \"Vedanta Desika\" refutes this contention because there is no such entity which is neither real nor unreal. The universe which is different from Brahman is inseparably related to Brahman. Badarayana (Brahma Sutra III.ii.28) declares that between the \"Jiva\" and Brahman there is difference as well as non-difference like the relation of light to its substratum or source on account of both being luminous, one being limited and the other all-pervading, the all-pervading is real and immortal. Rishi Damano Yamayana (Rig Veda X.xvi.4) insists that all should know about that part of the body which is immortal; the immortal part of the body is the Atman or Brahman, it is called a part because without it there cannot be life in one’s body. Vacaspati of the \"Bhamati\" school states that whereas illusion conceals, \"mithyatva\" signifies 'concealment', the real nature of the cognized object is concealed resulting in non-apprehension of difference between the real and the unreal objects. Padmapada of the \"Vivarna\" school adds to the sense of concealment the sense of inexpressibility, thus hinting at the sublatability of illusion. If the term \"anirvacaniya\" is defined by the \"Advaita\" as the nature of being different from \"sat\" and \"asat\" in essence, which is the nature of \"mithyatva\", then the element of difference must be real. Even though Jayatirtha states that there is no bar on the validity of the experience of difference, but the fact remains that difference cannot be an attribute of objects. Madhavacharya concludes that difference is not something that falls outside the content of an object or what is generally considered to constitute its essence which in perception is the sum total of its distinction from others. The perception of an object is the same as the perception of its difference from all others.\n\n\"Mithyatva\" is not a common term in Buddhism, but where mentioned implies deceit. The more common term used is Maya. Mithyatva, according to \"Abhidharmakosa\", means rebirth in the hells or as an animal or as a \"preta\". \"Ratnagotravibhagha\" terms \"mithyatva\" as the state of evil.\n"}
{"id": "2920127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2920127", "title": "Ninian Smart", "text": "Ninian Smart\n\nRoderick Ninian Smart (6 May 1927 – 9 January 2001) was a Scottish writer and university educator. He was a pioneer in the field of secular religious studies. In 1967 he established the first department of religious studies in the United Kingdom at the new University of Lancaster where he was also Pro-Vice-Chancellor, having already chaired one of the largest and most prestigious departments of theology in Britain at the University of Birmingham. In 1976, he became the first J.F. Rowny Professor in the Comparative Study of Religions at University of California, Santa Barbara. Smart presented the Gifford Lectures in 1979–80. In 1996, he was named the Academic Senate's Research Professor, the highest professorial rank at UC Santa Barbara. In 2000, he was elected President of the American Academy of Religion, while simultaneously retaining his status as President of the Inter Religious Federation for World Peace. Smart held both titles at the time of his death.\n\nSmart became widely known outside the Academy, at least in Britain, when he was editorial consultant for the major BBC television series, \"The Long Search\" (1977). His book \"The World's Religions\" (1989) also reached a considerable popular readership. His defence of religious studies as a secular discipline helped the formation of departments in many public universities, especially in the United States. He distanced religious studies from traditional theology in that evaluating truth claims and apology have no role but regarded investigation into the \"truth and worth\" of religion \"per se\" as a valid academic enterprise in the public arena of state-funded education.\n\nNinian Smart was born in Cambridge, England, where his father, William Marshall Smart (1889–1975) was the John Couch Adams Astronomer in the University of Cambridge. His mother was Isabel (née Carswell). W. M Smart, who died in 1975, also served as President of the Royal Astronomical Society (1950).\nBoth parents were Scottish. They moved to Glasgow in 1937, when W. M. Smart became Regius Professor of Astronomy (retiring in 1959).\n\nSmart was one of three brothers, all of whom became professors: Jack (1920–2012) became a professor of philosophy; Alastair (1922–1992) was Professor of Art History at the University of Nottingham. \n\nSmart attended the Glasgow Academy before joining the military in 1945, serving until 1948, in the British Army Intelligence Corps where he learned Chinese (via Confucian texts) mainly at the London School of Oriental and African Studies and had his first extended contact with Sri Lankan Buddhism. It was this experience that roused him from what he called his \"Western slumber with the call of diverse and noble cultures.\" Leaving the army – as a captain – with a scholarship to Queen's College, University of Oxford, he reverted to his Glasgow major, classics and philosophy, mainly because Chinese and Oriental studies in those days had \"pathetic curricula\". However, for his B.Phil. work he returned to world religions, writing what he later described as \"the first dissertation in Oxford on philosophy of religion after World War II\". \nAfter teaching in the University of Wales from 1952 until 1955, Smart spent a year as a visiting lecturer at Yale University, where he also studied Sanskrit and Pāli, the language of the Buddhist scriptures. In 1956, he was appointed Lecturer in the University of London, then in 1961 at the very young age of 34 – extraordinarily young for a full chair in the British system – he became the first H. G. Wood Professor of Theology at the University of Birmingham – one of the largest departments of theology, where he also served as head of department. By now author of several publications, including \"Reasons and Faiths\" (1958), based on his B.Phil work and \"World Religions: A Dialogue\" (1960), Smart was a rising star in the newly developing field of Religious Studies, rather than in Theology, despite the name of the chair he occupied. Already known internationally, he received several offers to take up positions in North America, including as Chair of the Columbia and Pennsylvania Departments, and an invitation to apply for a chair at Oxford. However, he was already involved in a consultative capacity in forming the first major department of Religious Studies at the new Lancaster, and found himself \"cajoled from being adviser to being candidate\" for the Chair.\n\nDespite the attraction of prestigious posts elsewhere, he chose Lancaster because it represented a \"tabula rasa, a new field\" where he could practice his ideas. He took up appointment in 1967, as Foundation Professor of Religious Studies. His tenure at Birmingham University had also done much to shift the department from an exclusive focus on Christianity to encompass world religions. His successor at Birmingham, John Hick, would emerge as the most well-known exponent of a pluralist theology of religions. Between 1969 and 1972, he was also Pro-Vice-Chancellor at Lancaster. In 1977, Smart started to divide his time between Lancaster and another new venture, the Religious studies department at the University of California, Santa Barbara (1976–98) where he became the first J. F. Rowny Professor in the Comparative Study of Religions at Santa Barbara, from 1988 (he was a professor from 1976). As at Birmingham and Lancaster, he was again also department chair. He spent six months of each year at each campus. In 1996, he was named Research Professor at Santa Barbara, the highest academic honour. Toward the end of his career, he was elected President of the American Academy of Religion. Proud of his Scottish identity, he often wore his kilt on campus at Santa Barbara, where he was renowned for riding his bicycle very slowly, for \"his bow ties and the ever-present flower in his lapel, and most of all the twinkle in his eye.\"\nAt Lancaster he was respected by his students for being so accessible, for his willingness to engage his formidable intellect without pretension in informal debate over a pint in the bar.\n\nSmart was also visiting professor at Varanasi in India, Yale, Wisconsin, Princeton, Queensland, and the respected Religious Studies department at Lampeter, in Hong Kong and elsewhere. Lectures delivered in Delhi were published as \"The Yogi and the Devotee\" (1968). In 1967, he presented the Heslington Lectures at the University of York, in which he set out his ideas about secular Religious Studies subsequently published as \"Secular Education and the Logic of Religion\" (1967), further developing these in his inaugural lecture at Lancaster, published as \"Concept and Empathy\" (1986). In 1979–80, he presented the prestigious Gifford Lectures, published as \"Beyond Ideology\" (1981).\n\nIn addition to teaching, research, and writing, Smart was something of an activist in promoting improved cross-cultural understanding. In the 1970s, he was involved in several initiatives in Britain to broaden the public religious education curriculum, previously purely Christian, to include the range of world religions. He also served on the National Schools Council advising on broadening the religious education curriculum. The teaching of religion in the state school system in the United Kingdom, which is mandatory, distinguishes teaching about religion from faith-nurture, which is not properly part of the task. Smart was involved in the Assembly of the World's Religions series of meetings (1985, 1990, 1992) sponsored by Sun Myung Moon, founder of the Unification movement and served as President of the Inter Religious Federation for World Peace. In 1999, he was co-convener of the First Assembly of the Inter-religious and International Federation for World Peace, established by Moon. Smart reiterated his conviction that without improved understanding of the religious and cultural Other, peace in the world would remain elusive. His concept of religions as worldviews, and his value-free approach to religious studies – that is, refraining from elevating a single understanding of \"truth\" as some sort of evaluative criterion of religious authenticity-opened up for him the study of non-religious ideologies or worldviews (he preferred this term because it does not imply that theism is an essential element) as well as of new religious movements, which he saw as one result of globalisation. He also wrote the foreword for the Unification publication, \"World Scripture,\" edited by Andrew Wilson, in which he stated that, \"it is obvious that as we move toward a world civilization, in which so many cultures and spiritual traditions will impinge on one another, all of us should understand one another.\" Smart was also a member of the International Board of the Global Ethics and Religion Forum, an educational, non-profit NGO dedicated to increasing global ethical responsibility.\n\nSmart received honorary doctorates from Loyola (1970), Glasgow University (1984), Stirling University (1986) University of Kelaniya, Sri Lanka (1991), and Lancaster (1995) as well as an Honorary Fellowship from the Queen's College, Oxford (1999). He was made a Life Member of the International Association for the History of Religion (1995).\n\nIn 1994, the volume \"Aspects of Religion\", edited by Peter Masefield and Donald Wiebe, was published in his honour.\n\nSmart officially retired from Lancaster in 1982 (he was Honorary Professor from 1982 to 1989, then Professor Emeritus) and from Santa Barbara in 1998, but remained active as a professor emeritus in both universities, living mainly in Lancaster, where he died in 2001 from a massive stroke, aged 73.\n\nSmart is mainly noted for his contribution in the area of methodology, although he saw his contribution as conceptual as well as methodological, commenting that while expertise in languages was not to be dismissed, it should not be \"rated above conceptual insight.\" Secular Religious Studies dates from the mid-1960s, when new departments were established, several in state universities in the United States. At the time, it was only just beginning to earn academic recognition and Smart was a pivotal figure in this process and, as Cunningham comments, \"it is difficult not to recall that the emergence of Religious Studies as a higher education subject was then controversial.\"\n\nSmart's early work involved linguistic analysis, in which he had trained at Oxford. Later, he said that this came close to \"cross-cultural study\" but had stopped short, since he was still too captive to \"our language\" and \"various assumptions of our culture\". However, when he came to publish this he included later conceptual ideas, expanding his dissertation. Interested in Rudolf Otto's concept of the Holy as a key to understanding religion, he found this too restrictive, since Buddhism is non-theistic. Instead, he suggested that religious experience can be either numinous or mystical. He was also influenced by R.C. Zaehner's interest in mysticism, having consulted him at Oxford. He then examined what he took as key religious concepts, such as revelation, faith, conversion and knowledge and analysed what these meant in Christianity, Hinduism, and Buddhism without evaluating any belief in terms of truth or falsity. He was consciously attempting to break out of captivity to Western modes of thought so that for example theism is not taken as an essential component of religion, thus such ideas as theophany or a single ultimate focus or sacrifice do not necessarily translate from the Christian into other religious contexts. \"She who knows but one religion knows none,\" said Smart. Western concern for doctrine overlooked the importance of religious experience. Early in his career, he insisted that an ideology such as Marxism as well as nationalism and rationalism could be considered religious, because they resemble religious traditions in how they function, and therefore properly belong to Religious Studies, the subject matter of which was \"non-finite\". \n\nHe situated Religious Studies in contrast to theology as agnostic on the truth of religious claims but he was critical of Peter Berger for \"assuming the non-existence of God\". Religious Studies is, however, interested in why people believe that their religious statements or experience is true, thus description, although vital, must \"transcend the informative\" and engage in dialogue with \"the para-historical claims of religions and anti-religious outlooks\". It need not be hostile to the type of committed approach pursued in theology \"provided it is open, and does not artificially restrict understanding and choice\". It is not concerned with evangelising but with elucidating understanding, or meaning. Religious Studies, too, has a vital role to play in combating tribalism, that is, human captivity to its own cultures. Religious Studies as a non-confessional, methodologically agnostic discipline takes its place in the secular academy, where it draw heavily on anthropology, sociology, psychology, history, archaeology, and other disciplines. At bottom, it has a place in the public or state sector because, as an aspect of human experience, it is also the study of people – of what they believe, why they believe and act as they do, both individually and within society. It is a constantly changing field because religions change as religious people adapt to new circumstances. Religious Studies is never exclusively interested in what might be termed orthodoxy—however a religion itself might enforce or police conformity to an official version – but with religion as it is lived, with \"religion on the ground,\" a term he first used in 1978. Responses to modernity, to globalisation, as well as trends towards religious eclecticism, properly concern Religious Studies. Smart did not anticipate a single, eclectic religion emerging but that religions would increasingly borrow from one another and that a global consensus on the value of religion in society would evolve. In interview with Scott London, he said:\n\nI … believe we are moving toward a global ideology that has a place for religion and recognizes the contributions of the different traditions. Hopefully, it will have an overarching view as to how we can work together for the promotion of human values and spirituality.\n\nSmart is widely known for his seven-part definition of religion, or rather scheme of study; as this approach avoids the problem of defining altogether. Whatever else religion may or may not be – whether theistic or non-theistic, religions possess certain recognisable elements, which can be studied. These dimensions vary in importance but are almost always present. Smart divided these into \"historical\" and \"para-historical,\" meaning by the latter those dimensions that take the investigation into the experience, or inner lives, or religious people. The \"historical\" can be studied empirically, the para-historical takes the student into the realm of belief and concepts and requires dialogue and participation; \"since the study of man is in an important sense participatory – for one has to enter into men's intentions, beliefs, myths, desires, in order to understand why they act as they do – it is fatal if cultures including our own are described merely externally, without entering into dialogue with them\". \n\nSmart's sevenfold scheme of study:\nNote: Smart categorised 1–3 as para-historical and 4–6 as historical.\n\nSmart’s contribution to Religious Studies continues to influence curricula, syllabi and methodology. In particular, his \"dimensions of religion,\" a framework for comparing religions, has been influential within the academy. His willingness to take seriously what others saw as \"illegitimate,\" such as ideologies and new religious movements, did much to allow Religious Studies to distinguish itself from theology and from any charge of privileging any particular faith or version of a faith. Hecht commented that, \"When the definitive history of the study of religion in the 20th century is written...\" Ninian Smart \"will certainly be seen as a giant among his peers\" since Smart's \"many books opened religion to scholar and layperson alike\". The Ninian Smart Annual Memorial Lecture, created in his honour, alternates between Lancaster and Santa Barbara. At Loyola, he is honoured by the Ninian Smart Award for Excellence in Religious Studies. In April 2001, the Santa Barbara Templeton Research Lecture series was dedicated to the memory of Smart, and a commemorative plaque was presented to the Smart family. He had been due to deliver a Templeton lecture himself.\n\nSmart married Libushka Baruffaldi in 1954. Their children were Roderick, Luisabel, Caroline and Peregrine. Smart had eight grandchildren at the time of his death.\n\nLibushka was originally from Lake Como, Italy, where Smart regularly spent his summer vacations at his family home. Ninian and Libushka were the first from the Western academy to have their marriage blessed by Sun Myung Moon and Mrs. Moon in August 1992.\n\nTowards the end of his life, Smart described himself as a \"Buddhist-Episcopalian\", saying, \"No religion, it seems to me, contains the whole truth. I think it's mad to think that there is nothing to learn from other traditions and civilizations. If you accept that other religions have something to offer and you learn from them, that is what you become: a Buddhist-Episcopalian or a Hindu-Muslim or whatever\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14883658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14883658", "title": "Nur University", "text": "Nur University\n\nNur University of Bolivia was established as a Bahá'í school of higher education in August 1984 and started its first academic year in April 1985.\n\nFollowing development of the Foundation for the Integral Development of Bolivia (FUNDESIB) in 1982, Nur University received Presidential Decree No. 20441 authorizing its establishment as a private university. It began offering undergraduate programs in 1985 and became Bolivia's first graduate college in 1994.\n\nIn 1996, Nur trained 2000 rural teachers as agents of community development in Bolivia and 300 teachers in the La Rioja Province in Argentina.\n\nThe Bolivian Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports contracted Nur in 1999 to strengthen the academic and administrative capacities of two state teachers colleges: INSPOC in Camiri and INS Rafael Chávez Ortiz in Portachuelo.\n\nThe university has 4,000 registered students in 17 undergraduate and graduate programs offered full- or part-time or through distance education.\n\nIn 2000 the university received the highest distinction granted by the Santa Cruz Municipal Government, the Municipal Merit Medal, given for the community service work developed by the university through UNIRSE (University Students in Service to the Community). That same year Nur University received the \"Pioneers in Education\" prize, granted by the Bolivian Center for Research and Educational Action.\n\nIn 2001, the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports called upon all the private universities in the country to submit to an evaluation process in accordance with the new private university regulations, in which Nur was evaluated as a \"Full University\".\n\nIn 2002 Nur University was selected as a \"Center for Educational Excellence\" for the Andean region: an initiative launched at the Summit for the Americas, supported by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).\n\n"}
{"id": "8017149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8017149", "title": "Offering (Buddhism)", "text": "Offering (Buddhism)\n\nIn Buddhism, symbolic offerings are made to the Triple Gem, giving rise to contemplative gratitude and inspiration. Typical material offerings involve simple objects such as a lit candle or oil lamp, burning incense, flowers, food, fruit, water or drinks.\n\nWithin the traditional Buddhist framework of karma and rebirth, offerings lead to the accumulation of merit, which leads to:\n\nThese offerings often act as preparation for meditation.\n\nMaterial offerings nurture generosity (Pali:\"dāna\") and virtue (Pali: \"sīla\"). The act further honors the Triple Gem (the Buddha, Dhamma and Sangha), deepening one's commitment to the Buddha's path. For instance, traditional chants (in English and Pali) when offering lit candles (\"padīpa pūjā\") and incense (\"sugandha pūjā\") to an image of the Buddha are:\n\nSimilarly, a traditional Pali incense-lighting verse speaks of the Buddha's \"fragrant body and fragrant face, fragrant with infinite virtues.\"\n\nBy contemplating on an offering, one tangibly sees life's impermanence (Pali: \"anicca\"), one of the three characteristics of all things upon which the Buddha encouraged his disciplines to recollect. For instance, the end of a traditional chant (in English and Pali) when offering flowers (\"puppha pūjā\") to an image of the Buddha is:\n\nMahayana material offerings might be imbued with the following symbology:\n\nIn Northern Buddhism, sacred images have set before them:\n\nIn some traditions, two different types of offerings are identified:\n\nIn this context, material offerings are considered \"external\" offerings of \"words and deeds.\"\n\nPractice offerings may be manifested by practicing:\nIn the Pali Canon, the Buddha declared practice offerings as \"the best way of honoring the Buddha\" and as the \"supreme\" offering. This is primarily an \"internal\" offering for mental development (Pali: \"citta\", \"bhāvanā\" and \"samādhi\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33732076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33732076", "title": "Padharia", "text": "Padharia\n\nPadhariya / Padharia is name of a , community of Gujarat, India. They are found in Saurashtra, Kutch, Banaskantha, Rewakantha and Dang regions of Gujarat.\n\nPadharias get their name as traditional eaters of roots of \"Bid\" plant. The ' Bid ' root was unknown to almost all the people of Gujarat except Padharia and some other people. The Padharia males needed an amount of 1-1/2 to 2 seer and females needed 1-1/4 to 1-1/2 seer of 'Bid' food to keep themselves up, as noted by British authorities in their survey of 1905.\n\nAt present, the total population of Padharias is estimated to be of 24,000 and they are centralized and spread only in Gujarat state of India. They were traditionally involved in professions like catching and selling fish as well in cultivation. \n"}
{"id": "9969182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9969182", "title": "Padmashali", "text": "Padmashali\n\nPadmashali (also spelt as Padmasali) is a Telugu-speaking Hindu caste residing in the Indian states of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu.\n\nThe term \"Padmashali\" is derived from two words \"Padma\" and \"Shali\", The Padma means lotus and Shali means weaver. The word Padma referring to the myth of the thread was a lotus which sprang from the navel of Vishnu.\n\nThe Padmashalis support their mythological origins and \"Puranas\" such as \"Kulapurana\" and \"Markandeya Purana\". \n\nThe Padmashalis and the Devangas, who are another caste of weavers, were originally a single caste in ancient times and followed Vaishnavism. The caste then split due to differences in faith, with the Devangas being influenced by Shaivism and Lingayatism and accepting Chamundeswari, the fierce form of Durga as their kuladevi. The Padmashalis maintained their belief in Vaishnavism. The Padmashalis eventually specialised in weaving clothes of all varieties.\n\nTheir subcastes are further divided into two groups based on Sampradaya, being the Shaivas and the Vaishnavas. While the Shaivas give preference to worshipping Shiva, the Vaishnavas give preference to worship of Vishnu. These religious and occupational distinctions are no bar, but we don't accept intermarriage and interdining.\n\nThey worship local gods such as Gangamma, Chamundeswari and Yellamma. The latter is traditionally considered to be the mother of Parasurama and is identified with Renuka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3073167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3073167", "title": "Qareen", "text": "Qareen\n\nA Qareen ( \"qarīn\" literally meaning: 'constant companion'), is a spiritual double of human, either part of the human himself or a complementary creature in a parallel dimension. Due to its ghostly nature, the Qareen is classified among the Jinn-type creatures, although usually not actually a Jinni. The Qareen as an accompanying spirit should not be confused with the \"Qarinah\" as a female \"childbed demon\" also existing in Middle Eastern faith.\n\nQareen are mentioned in Sūrat az-Zukhruf:\n\"And whosoever turns away from remembering and mentioning the Most Beneficent, we appoint for him Shayatin to be a \"Qaree \" to him.\" \nSeveral opinions exist on the exact nature of the Qareen. According to one opinion, the Qareen is actually a Shaitan, who incites humans with waswās (\"evil suggestions\"), but can became \"good\" in accordance with humans good deeds. For example, it is said, that the Qareen of Muhammad became Muslim. However it is uncertain, whether or not, a Qareen besides those of Muhammad, can actually become \"good\".\n\nAnother opinion holds, that Qareen refers to any type of spirit accompanying humans. Here, the Qareen refers to both demons, who cast evil suggestions, but also to angels, who advises to do good deeds.\n\nFurther the Qareen is depicted as the other self: An integral spirit which is part of the person. A dissent between the inner Qareen and the behavior may cause the same symptoms as Jinn-possession.\n\nWith regard to the \"hadith\" of Muhammad, \"There is none of you who does not have a companion (\"Qareen\") appointed for him from among the \"jinn\".\" They said, \"Even you?\" He said, \"Even me, but Allah helped me against him \"fa aslama\" [or \"fa aslamu\"], so he only tells me to do that which is good.\" \n\nThere are two well-known views that have been reported. Those who read the phrase as \"fa aslamu\" said that it means, \"So I am safe [\"aslamu\"] from his evil and temptation.\" Those who read it as \"fa aslama\" said that it means, \"The \"Qareen\" became Muslim [\"aslama\"] and became a believer, so he only tells me to do that which is good.\"\n\nThey differed as to which view is correct. Al-Khattaabi said: The correct version is \"fa aslamu\" [so I am safe]. Al-Qaadi Iyaad thought that \"fa aslama\" [so he became Muslim] was correct, and this is the preferred version, because he then said, \"so he only tells me to do that which is good.\" (Reported by Muslim, 2814). And they differed concerning the report that says \"fa aslama\". It was said that it means he submitted in the sense of surrendering, and it appears in this form (\"fa astaslama\" – so he surrendered) in reports narrated elsewhere than in Saheeh Muslim. And it was said that it means that he become a Muslim and a believer. This is the apparent meaning.\n\nAbu Na’eem al-Asbahaani said in Dalaa’il al-Nubuwwah (1/185): It was said \"aslama\" meaning he believed. Muhammad was the only one whose \"Qareen\" became a Muslim and a believer.\n\nBased on this, having one's \"Qareen\" become a Muslim was something that was unique to Muhammad.\n\nFurthermore, there is no evidence that the Companions (Sahaba) ever tried to convert their \"Qareen\" to become a Muslim.\n\nThe concept of a \"Qareen\" appears in pre-Islamic literature as well, and reminds to the Greek daimones and the Christian guardian angel. In Pre-Islamic Arabian the Qareen is said to be able to inspire poets for their works.\n\nOne of the seven mu'allaqat—Arabic poems recognized as masterpieces during the pre-Islamic period—uses the word as a metaphor. To describe his tribe's excellence in battle, poet Amr bin Kulthum says that \"every tribe has taken fear of us as a \"qarin\" (or \"constant companion\"),\" meaning that their fear of Amr's tribe is always present. This goes further to show the origin of the word \"qareen\", as described in the Arabic dictionary as a 'companion'\n\n"}
{"id": "2190496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190496", "title": "Rehras", "text": "Rehras\n\nRehras Sahib (), commonly known as Sodar Rehras, is the daily evening prayer of the Sikhs and is part of Nitnem. It includes hymns from Guru Granth Sahib and Dasam Granth.\n\nIt contains hymns of So Dar, So Purakh, Chopai, Anand Sahib and Mundavani, among which Chopai is from Dasam Granth. This Bani is a collection of hymns of five Sikh Gurus: Guru Nanak Dev, Guru Amar Das, Guru Ram Das, Guru Arjan Dev and Guru Gobind Singh.\n\n\"Complete Rehras Sahib {PDF}\"\n\n"}
{"id": "20470703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20470703", "title": "Religion in Croatia", "text": "Religion in Croatia\n\nThe most widely professed religion in Croatia is Christianity and a large majority of the Croatian population declare themselves to be members of the Catholic Church. Croatia has no official religion and Freedom of religion is a right defined by the Constitution of Croatia, which also defines all religious communities as equal in front of the law and separate from the state.\n\nIn the 16th century, Protestantism reached Croatia, but was mostly eradicated due to the Counter-Reformation implemented by the Habsburgs.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census 86.28% of Croatians are Catholics, while Orthodox Christians make up 4.44% of the population, Muslims 1.47%, and Protestants 0.34% of the population. 3.81% of Croatians are not religious and atheists, 0.76% are agnostics and sceptics, and 2.17% are undeclared. In the Eurostat Eurobarometer Poll of 2005, 67% of the population of Croatia responded that \"they believe there is a God\". In a 2009 Gallup poll, 70% answered yes to the question \"Is religion an important part of your daily life?\". However, only 24% of the population attends religious services regularly.\n\nPublic schools allow religious teaching in cooperation with religious communities having agreements with the state, but attendance is not mandated. Religion classes () are organized widely in public elementary and secondary schools, most commonly coordinated with the Catholic Church.\n\nThe public holidays in Croatia also include the religious festivals () of Epiphany, Easter Monday, Corpus Christi Day, Assumption Day, All Saints' Day, Christmas, and St. Stephen's or Boxing Day. The primary holidays are based on the Catholic liturgical year, but other believers are legally allowed to celebrate other major religious holidays.\n\nMarriages conducted by the religious communities having agreements with the state are officially recognized, eliminating the need to register the marriages in the civil registry office.\n\nThe Catholic Church in Croatia receives state financial support and other benefits established in concordats between the Government and the Vatican. The concordats and other government agreements with non-Catholic religious communities allow state financing for some salaries and pensions for religious officials through government-managed pension and health funds.\n\nThe concordats and agreements also regulate public school catechisms and military chaplains.\n\nIn line with the concordats signed with the Roman Catholic Church and in an effort to further define their rights and privileges within a legal framework, the government has additional agreements with the following 14 religious and Faith communities:\n\n\nThe 2002 Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities broadly defines religious and Faith communities' legal positions and covers such matters as government funding, tax benefits, and religious education in schools. Matters such as pensions for clergy; religious service in the military, penitentiaries, and police; and recognition of religious and Faith marriages are left to each religious and Faith community to negotiate separately with the Government.\n\nRegistration of religious groups is not obligatory; however, registered groups are granted \"legal person\" status and enjoy tax and other benefits. The law stipulates that to be eligible for registration, a religious group must have at least 500 believers and be registered as an association for 5 years. All religious and Faith groups in the country prior to passage of the law in 2002 were registered without having to meet these conditions; religious and Faith groups new to the country after passage of the law must fulfill the requirements for the minimum number of believers and time as an association. Religious and Faith groups based abroad must submit written permission for registration from their country of origin. Minister of Public Administration runs a Registry of religious organizations in Republic of Croatia, currently recognizing 62 religious communities ().\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15463850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15463850", "title": "Religion in El Salvador", "text": "Religion in El Salvador\n\nEl Salvador's approximately 6.1 million inhabitants (July 2013) are mostly Christian. Evangelical Protestantism is experiencing rapid growth in recent decades while the Catholic share of the population is on decline.\n\nThere is some debate about percentages, the Institute of Public Opinion of the University of Central America in May 2013 found 51% of the population as Roman Catholics, and 33% as Protestant, 14% as not having a religion and the remainder (less than 2%) being Jehovah's Witnesses, Hare Krishnas, Muslims, Jews, Buddhists, Latter-day Saints (Mormons), and members of indigenous religions. However Latinobarómetro in 2017 found 39% were Catholic, 28% Protestant, 30% atheist/agnostic/not religious, 2% other religions, and 1% did not answer. It also found in 1996 that 67% of the population considered themselves Catholic and 15% Protestant.\n\nMision Cristiana Elim Internacional is a large pentecostal denomination started in El Salvador. It claims that its main church in San Salvador has 120,000 attending. The Assemblies of God claim 285,226 members (2007).\n\nThe Mormons claim 120,317 people in 164 congregations and 1 temple (2015) which if correct would be just under 2% of the population. An IUDOP study in 2009 found that Mormons were 2% of the Protestants they surveyed or about .8% of the total population. They started evangelizing in El Salvador in 1951.\n\nThe Anglican Church in El Salvador (a diocese of the province of the Anglican Church in Central America) claims 6,000 members in 18 congregations. The Baptist Association of El Salvador claims 4,427 members and the Salvadorean Lutheran Synod about 15,000 in 68 congregations,\n\n\nhttps://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/geos/es.html\n\n"}
{"id": "163282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163282", "title": "Ricky Gervais", "text": "Ricky Gervais\n\nRicky Dene Gervais (; born 25 June 1961) is an English stand-up comedian, actor, writer, producer, director and singer. \n\nGervais worked initially in the music industry, attempting a career as a pop star in the 1980s as the singer of the new wave act Seona Dancing and working as the manager of the then-unknown band Suede before turning to comedy. Gervais appeared on \"The 11 O'Clock Show\" on Channel 4 between 1998 and 2000. In 2000, he was given a Channel 4 talk show, \"Meet Ricky Gervais\", and then achieved greater mainstream fame a year later with his BBC television series \"The Office\". It was followed by \"Extras\" in 2005. He co-wrote and co-directed both series with Stephen Merchant. In addition to writing and directing the shows, he played the lead roles of David Brent in \"The Office\" and Andy Millman in \"Extras\". He reprised his role as Brent in the comedy film \"\". \n\nGervais began his stand-up career in the late 1990s. He has performed five multi-national stand-up comedy tours, and wrote the \"Flanimals\" book series. Gervais, Merchant and Karl Pilkington created the podcast, \"The Ricky Gervais Show\", which has spawned various spin-offs starring Pilkington and produced by Gervais and Merchant.\n\nHe has also starred in the Hollywood films \"Ghost Town\", and \"Muppets Most Wanted\", and wrote, directed and starred in \"The Invention of Lying\" and the Netflix released \"Special Correspondents\". He hosted the Golden Globe Awards in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2016, and appears on the game show \"Child Support\".\n\nGervais has won seven BAFTA Awards, five British Comedy Awards, two Emmy Awards, three Golden Globe Awards and the 2006 Rose d'Or, as well as a Screen Actors Guild Award nomination. In a 2004 poll for the BBC, he was named the third most influential person in British culture. In 2007, he was voted the 11th greatest stand-up comic on Channel 4's 100 Greatest Stand-Ups and again in the updated 2010 list as the 3rd greatest stand-up comic. In 2010, he was named on the \"Time 100\" list of the world's most influential people.\nGervais was born at Battle Hospital in Reading. He was raised in Whitley, along with brother Larry (born 1945), sister Marsha (born 1948), and brother Robert (born 1950). His father, Lawrence Raymond \"Jerry\" Gervais (1919–2002), a Franco-Ontarian from Pain Court, Ontario, emigrated to the UK whilst on foreign duty during the Second World War and worked as a labourer and hod carrier. He met Gervais' mother, Eva Sophia (\"née\" House; 1925–2000), who was English, during a blackout; they settled in Whitley. She died, aged 74, of lung cancer.\n\nHe attended Whitley Park Infants and Junior Schools, and received his secondary education at Ashmead Comprehensive School; after a spell as a gardener at the University of Reading, he moved on to University College London in 1980. He intended to study biology but changed to philosophy after two weeks, and earned an upper second-class honours degree in the subject. During his time at UCL, he met Jane Fallon, with whom he has been in a relationship since 1982.\n\nIn 1983, during his final year as a student at UCL (University College London), Gervais and college friend Bill Macrae formed the new wave pop duo, Seona Dancing. They were signed by London Records, which released two of their singles—\"More to Lose\" and \"Bitter Heart\". The songs failed to chart inside the UK top 75. Despite not being successful in the UK, Seona Dancing did manage to score a hit in the Philippines with \"More to Lose\". He also worked as the manager for Suede before they became successful in the 1990s.\n\nIn 2013, Gervais performed a live tour as David Brent along with a band under the name \"Foregone Conclusion\". Gervais and the band performed songs written under the Brent character including songs such as \"Equality Street\" and \"Free Love Freeway\". Gervais also produced a series of YouTube videos under the title 'Learn Guitar with David Brent', featuring acoustic guitar versions of nine songs.\n\nIn 2016, as part of the \"Life on Road\" film promotion, Gervais published the \"David Brent Songbook\" containing 15 songs. These were also recorded for the album \"Life on the Road\", under the name of David Brent and Foregone Conclusion.\n\nGervais worked as an assistant events manager for the University of London Union (ULU), then moved from ULU to a job as head of speech at the alternative radio station Xfm. Needing an assistant, Gervais interviewed the first person whose \"curriculum vitae\" he saw. It belonged to Stephen Merchant. In 1998 Gervais was made redundant when the station was taken over by the Capital Radio group. Around this time he was also a regular contributor to Mary Anne Hobbs' Radio 1 show, performing vox pop interviews in unlikely locations.\n\nAfter the first series of \"The Office\", Gervais and Merchant returned to Xfm in November 2001 for a Saturday radio show. This was when the pair first worked with Karl Pilkington, who produced the shows and later collaborated with them on their series of podcasts. In October 2017, Gervais began hosting the weekly radio show \"Ricky Gervais Is Deadly Sirius\" on Sirius XM.\n\nOn 5 December 2005, \"Guardian Unlimited\" began offering free weekly podcasts, including \"The Ricky Gervais Show\" featuring Gervais, Merchant, and Karl Pilkington. Throughout January and February 2006 the podcast was consistently ranked the number-one podcast in the world; it appeared in the 2007 Guinness World Record for the world's most-downloaded podcast, having gained an average of 261,670 downloads per episode during its first month. Two more series—each with six podcasts—were released between February and September 2006.\n\nIn late 2006, three more free podcasts were released. Together called \"The Podfather Trilogy\", they debuted individually at Halloween, Thanksgiving and Christmas. These three were known by Ricky and Steve as \"The Fourth Season\". In October 2007 another free full-length podcast was released through iTunes; this podcast was originally given out for free during a performance of Gervais' \"Fame\" stand-up tour in London. On 25 November 2007 Gervais, Merchant and Pilkington released another free full-length podcast, which lasted just over an hour.\n\nIn August 2008, Gervais, Merchant and Pilkington recorded their fifth season of audiobooks, totaling 4 chapters, which were released on 16 September 2008. These audiobooks were described as the 'guide to...' series, covering several topics. As of May 2011, there are 12 \"Guides\" in total: Medicine, Natural History, Arts, Philosophy, The English, Society, Law & Order, The Future, The Human Body, The Earth, The World Cup 2010, and Comic Relief. The conversations typically begin on topic, but constantly stray away from the topic at hand.\n\nGervais has contributed to the BAFTA-winning \"The Sketch Show\" (ITV), penning several sketches. His mainstream-TV debut came in September 1998 as part of Channel 4's \"Comedy Lab\" series of pilots. His one-off show \"Golden Years\" focused on a David Bowie–obsessed character called Clive Meadows.\n\nGervais then came to much wider national attention with an obnoxious, cutting persona featured in a topical slot that replaced Ali G's segments on the satirical Channel 4 comedy programme \"The 11 O'Clock Show\" in early 1999, in which his character used as many expletives as was possible and produced an inordinate amount of politically incorrect statements. Among the other regular featured comedians on the show was Mackenzie Crook, later a co-star of \"The Office\". Two years later, Gervais went on to present his own comedy chat show for Channel 4 called \"Meet Ricky Gervais\"; it was poorly received and has since been mocked by Gervais himself.\n\nThroughout this time, Gervais also wrote for the BBC sketch show \"Bruiser\" and \"The Jim Tavare Show.\"\n\n\"The Office\" started when Stephen Merchant, while on a BBC production course, had to make his own short film. In August 1999 he made a docu-soap parody, set in an office, with help from Ash Atalla, who was shown a 7-minute video called 'The Seedy Boss'. Thus David Brent was created. Merchant passed this tape on to the BBC's Head of Entertainment Paul Jackson at the Edinburgh Fringe, who then passed it on to Head of Comedy Jon Plowman, who eventually commissioned a full-pilot script from Merchant and Gervais.\n\nThe first six-episode series of \"The Office\" aired in the UK in July and August 2001 to little fanfare or attention. Word-of-mouth, repeats, and DVDs helped spread the word, building up momentum and anticipation for the second series, also comprising six episodes. Following the success of \"The Office\" second series, Gervais was named the most powerful person in TV comedy by \"Radio Times\".\n\nIn 2004, \"The Office\" won the Golden Globes for Best Television Series – Musical or Comedy and Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series – Musical or Comedy for Gervais, who said in a 2015 BBC interview that the award was the gateway to America for him.\n\n\"The Office\" brand has since been remade for audiences in , France, Germany, Quebec, Brazil and the United States. Gervais and Merchant are producers of the American version, and they also co-wrote the episode \"The Convict\" for the show's third season. Gervais has said that the episode \"Training\" is his favourite, where Brent plays his guitar and sings.\n\n\"Extras\" had its debut on the BBC on 21 July 2005; directed by Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant, the sitcom ran for twelve episodes and starred Gervais as Andy Millman, a background artist. Millman is more self-aware and intentionally humorous than Gervais' \"The Office\" character David Brent. Guest stars on the first series of \"Extras\" include Ross Kemp, Les Dennis, Patrick Stewart, Vinnie Jones, Samuel L. Jackson, Ben Stiller, Kate Winslet and Francesca Martinez. A second series began on 14 September 2006 in the UK and featured appearances by Daniel Radcliffe, Dame Diana Rigg, Orlando Bloom, Sir Ian McKellen, Chris Martin, Keith Chegwin, Robert Lindsay, Warwick Davis, Ronnie Corbett, Stephen Fry, Richard Briers, Patricia Potter, Sophia Myles, Moira Stuart, David Bowie, Kate Winslet, Robert De Niro and Jonathan Ross.\nA Christmas special of \"Extras\" aired on 27 December 2007 in the UK and on 16 December 2007 in the US, featuring guest appearances by George Michael, Clive Owen, Gordon Ramsay, Jonathan Ross and David Tennant.\n\nGervais was influenced by \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", in making \"Extras\", particularly in the format of celebrities making fools of themselves or subverting their public personas.\n\nIn 2007, Gervais won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series for his portrayal of Andy Millman in the second series of \"Extras\". As Gervais was not present at the awards ceremony, the trophy was accepted on his behalf by Steve Carell, the actor who starred as regional manager Michael Scott – the counterpart to Gervais' David Brent – on the American adaptation of \"The Office\".\n\n\"The Guardian\"s Chris Tryhorn explained the \"few gripes\" he had with \"Extras\", \"particularly in the second series\". \"You can forgive Gervais a certain arrogance after the success of \"The Office\", but...\" He remarks on the confused tone of the series, taking in the clash between the broad comedy of characters Barry (Shaun Williamson) and Darren (Stephen Merchant), and the apparent parody of this style with \"When The Whistle Blows\", and \"given their total indulgence of Gervais, the BBC is portrayed as interfering, its comedy department run by a rather crudely stereotyped gay couple\".\n\n\"The Ricky Gervais Show\" is an animated TV show that debuted on US cable network HBO on 19 February 2010. In the UK, the first series began airing on 23 April 2010 on Channel 4. The show was developed using original podcast recordings from \"The Ricky Gervais Show\" starring Gervais, Stephen Merchant, and Karl Pilkington. After receiving a loyal and enthusiastic following in the US, cable channel HBO recommissioned the show for a second series, which aired in 2011, and a third series which started airing in April 2012.\n\n\"Life's Too Short\" began airing on BBC Two on 10 November 2011. Gervais and Stephen Merchant would write this observational sitcom from an idea by Warwick Davis. It is described by Gervais as being about \"the life of a showbiz dwarf\" and as \"a cross between \"Extras\" and \"The Office\"\". The show stars actor Davis playing a fictionalized version of himself, as well as Gervais and Merchant. Premium cable channel HBO, who co-produced the series with the BBC, had the US rights and began airing the series on 19 February 2012.\n\n\"An Idiot Abroad\" is a travel documentary produced by Gervais and Merchant where a reluctant Pilkington travels around the world, while his reactions to people and places is recorded. Occasionally, Gervais and Merchant call him to surprise him with a new place to visit or a task to do. Pilkington reports back to them and mostly complains about the situation he is in. Gervais said there is no planning, a camera crew follows his friend around recording many hours of film which Gervais edits down to about an hour each episode.\n\nTo date two series and a Christmas special have aired, series one involves Pilkington visiting the Seven Wonders of the World, in the second show he chooses to complete tasks from a bucket list provided by Gervais and in the special Warwick Davis joins Pilkington on a journey following Marco Polo's route from Italy to China.\n\nIn November 2011, Gervais filmed in London a 35-minute pilot episode for a potential comedy-drama series called \"Derek\", which aired on Channel 4 on 12 April 2012. The pilot is solely written and directed by Gervais and features him in the title role of Derek Noakes, a 49-year-old retirement home worker, who \"loves animals, Rolf Harris, Jesus, \"Deal or No Deal\", \"Million Pound Drop\" and \"Britain's Got Talent\". The character first appeared in a 2001 Edinburgh Festival Fringe sketch as an aspiring comedian who loves animals and still lives with his mother. Gervais' co-host Karl Pilkington makes his acting debut as Derek's friend and facilities-caretaker Dougie who also works in the retirement home. British comedian Kerry Godliman plays Derek's best friend Hannah and David Earl plays Kev.\n\nGervais said that the series is about \"kindness [being] more important than anything else\". He added \"It's about the forgotten – everyone's forgotten. It's all these arbitrary people who didn't know each other, and they're in there now because they're in the last years of their life. And it's about the people who help them, who themselves are losers and have their own problems. It's about a bunch of people with nothing, but making the most of it, and they're together.\" He chose to set the sitcom in a retirement home after he watched \"Secret Millionaire\" – \"It was always these people with huge problems who were helping other people. I thought about having Derek help old people because no one cares about old people in this country... I think it's perfect for now.\"\n\nChannel 4 commissioned a full series of \"Derek\" that aired in early 2013. Derek was recommissioned for a second series which premiered on 23 April 2014. \"Derek\" ended with a one-off final special, broadcast on Channel 4 in the UK 22 December 2014.\n\nGervais began his stand-up career in the late 1990s; his first successful show took place at the Cafe Royal, as part of the 2001 Edinburgh Festival Fringe. Titled \"Rubbernecker\", the show also featured Jimmy Carr, Robin Ince and Stephen Merchant.\n\nGervais later toured the UK in 2003 with his stand-up show \"Animals\". The \"Politics\" tour followed a year later. Both of these shows were recorded for release on DVD and television broadcast. The third part of the themed live trilogy, \"Fame\", took place in 2007. It started in Glasgow in January and ended in Sheffield in April. Blackpool reported selling out of tickets within 45 minutes of them going on sale.\n\n\"Newsnight Review\"'s panel saw \"Animals\" during its Bloomsbury run and covered it in January 2003. They were not favourable, with \"Private Eye\" editor Ian Hislop saying it was \"cobbled together...banal...a bit flat\". After this, Gervais closed each show by calling Hislop an \"ugly little pug-faced cunt\".\n\n\"Fame\" was the subject of some controversy in January 2007 when Gervais told a story, ostensibly about how people will do anything to become famous, referring to the murder of prostitutes in Ipswich.\n\nGervais' fourth show was entitled \"Science\", and commenced with an eleven-date tour in August 2009 at the Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre in Glasgow. The DVD for \"Science\" was released on 15 November 2010.\nIn November 2009 he headlined the sixth annual New York Comedy Festival at Carnegie Hall.\n\nIn 2013, Gervais announced that his next stand up show will be called \"Humanity\". In December 2014, he said he was too busy to do his tour due to producing two films.\n\nIn May 2016, Gervais was back doing stand up in London, starting with some low key warm-ups with cast members from \"Derek\". He said, \"Finally, I'm going to do some stand-up. The first in about six years if you don't count hosting the Golden Globes.\"\n\nHe continued his \"Humanity\" show throughout 2017 and into 2018; appearing at SF Sketchfest as part of the tour, which devoted a night in honor of the comedian, alongside comedic legend and mentor Christopher Guest.\n\nHis next tour and Netflix special was announced in 2018.\n\nOne of the first animations Gervais voiced was the character of Penguin in Robbie the Reindeer's \"Legend of the Lost Tribe\".\n\nGervais guest-starred in an episode of \"The Simpsons\" entitled \"Homer Simpson, This Is Your Wife\". He is the only British comic to write and star in a \"Simpsons\" episode. The episode was the highest rated in Sky One's history; it revolved around the angle that Gervais was the episode's sole writer (and the first guest star on the show to also receive a writing credit for the episode of his appearance). Gervais clarified the extent of his input in a joint interview (with Christopher Guest) for \"Dazed and Confused\" magazine (January 2006): \"No, all I did was put down a load of observations on an email and they made it look like a \"Simpsons\" script. I'm going to get the credit, but I think everyone in the industry knows it was a joint effort\". Asked in a separate interview about how his idea for the episode (in which Homer swaps Marge on a game show) came about, Gervais replied: \"I've always been fascinated with reality game shows but I think it was my girlfriend's idea. We watch \"Celebrity Big Brother\" at the moment, we watch \"I'm a Celebrity, Get Me out of Here...\" we watch all those reality TV shows – \"The Office\" came out of those docu-soaps\". Gervais, a longstanding \"Simpsons\" fan, presented a segment to mark the show's 20th anniversary on BBC Two's \"The Culture Show\" on 16 June 2007.\n\nIn 2012, Gervais made a guest appearance on \"Family Guy\" in the episode titled \"Be Careful What You Fish For\". In the episode, Gervais plays a dolphin named Billy Finn who gives Peter Griffin a Mercedes-Benz hood ornament, Peter half-heartedly promises a favor to him. Soon, Billy moves to Quahog but outstays his welcome at Peter's. Peter tries to reunite Billy with his ex-wife in hopes that he will return to the ocean. The episode also featured Lucy Davis. Both Gervais and Davis starred together in \"The Office\".\n\nGervais had a cameo role in Simon Pegg's and Jessica Hynes's sitcom \"Spaced\", as Dave, an estate agent who mistakenly placed the advertisement for a property for a couple that turns out to be the premise of the show.\n\nIn season 8 episode 6 \"The Hero\" of the HBO series \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", Gervais was a guest at Larry David's dinner table. He played a version of himself, an egocentic self-promoting actor that annoyed David's character who was desperate for attention.\n\nGervais has also guest-starred on \"Alias\" (appearing in the third-season episode \"Façade\") as Daniel Ryan, a former Royal Navy bomb-disposal specialist turned rogue Irish Republican Army bomb-maker.\n\nHe also made guest appearances on \"Sesame Street\".\n\nLouis C.K. had Gervais play Dr. Ben, his doctor on two episodes of his series \"Louie\". Gervais would break into his trademark hysterical laugh every time his character made Louie the butt of a joke.\n\nEarly in 2015, Gervais guest starred in \"Galavant\", a four-week comedy mini-series, as Xanax the magician. The show aired on ABC and Gervais got to show off his singing skills.\n\nGervais made a cameo appearance on \"Saturday Night Live\" in a \"Digital Short\" during which he joked that \"The Office\" was adapted from a Japanese programme of the same name (with Steve Carell reprising his role as Michael Scott). The sketch re-creates scenes from the American and British pilot episode with Japanese elements (although in an exaggerated way). \"It's funny\", Gervais laughs at the end, \"because it's racist\".\n\nGervais hosted the 67th, 68th, 69th and 73rd Golden Globe Awards, his appearance in 2010 made him the first master of ceremonies since 1995. He stated: \"I have resisted many other offers like this, but there are just some things you don't turn down.\" His performance as host received a mixed response with positive reviews from the \"New York Daily News\" and the Associated Press, but also some negative comments from \"The Hollywood Reporter\".\n\nHis 2011 hosting of the awards was controversial for his edgy jokes that were at the expense of many of the nominees, similar to the New York Friars Club roast style jokes. His jibes were described as setting \"a corrosive tone\" by one critic, though some celebrities were seen crying from laughter, leaving the overall reaction to be 'mixed'. Gervais responded, \"They are my friends, but I had to play the outsider.\"\n\nGervais was a guest judge on Jerry Seinfeld's NBC show \"The Marriage Ref\" alongside Larry David and Madonna.\n\n\"Talking Funny\", which first aired on 28 April 2011, starred Gervais and fellow standup comedians Louis C.K., Chris Rock, and Jerry Seinfeld, they had an informal round-table discussion on standup comedy. This one off HBO special was well received by critics & audience alike.\n\nIn 2013, Gervais guest starred in \"David Blaine: Real or Magic,\" a television special where Blaine proceeded to run a large needle through his forearm in front of Gervais.\n\nIn January 2006, Gervais interviewed Larry David in a one-off special, \"Ricky Gervais Meets... Larry David\". On 25 and 26 December of the same year Channel 4 aired similar specials in which he interviewed the actor/comedian Christopher Guest and comedian Garry Shandling. There are no plans for further episodes of \"Meets...\", although editions with John Cleese and Matt Groening were recorded in 2006 for broadcast in 2007. A source claimed, \"The Shandling experience put him off for good\".\n\nIn January 2009, Gervais was a guest on BravoTV \"Inside the Actors Studio\" season 15 with James Lipton, where at one point of the interview he answered Lipton's question as David Brent his character from \"The Office\". Brent obliged the audience by singing his song \"Freelove Freeway\" with a guitar supplied to him by Lipton.\n\nGervais has been on \"The Late Show with David Letterman\" 26 times. In 2008, he helped Letterman read out the Late Show Top Ten List, Top Ten Stupid Things Americans Say To Brits. In mid 2014, upon hearing that Letterman was up for retirement, Gervais jokingly tried to discourage him by suggesting they go on a road trip where they would spend all their money.\n\"The Graham Norton Show\" based in UK has invited Gervais many times over the years. He has been on Norton's couch with Stephen Merchant, the co-creator & co-writer of \"The Office\", to promote \"Cemetery Junction\". Another time, he was there to talk about his series \"Life's Too Short\" and Johnny Depp who was there to promote his own film was also present.\n\nGervais is one of two featured comedians (the other being Katt Williams) in the video game \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" who performs at the Split Sides comedy club on the virtual stand-up stage and as an interviewee on the in game radio station \"We Know The Truth\". For the stand-up bit a special 3-minute act was written, recorded and fully motion-captured.\n\nGervais released a children's book in 2004, \"Flanimals\" (illustrated by Rob Steen), which depicted nonsense animals. After the success of this book, he released its sequel \"More Flanimals\" in 2005, with \"Flanimals of the Deep\" coming the next year. A new Flanimals book, \"\", was released in October 2007. \"Flanimals: Pop Up\" was also published in 2009. There is a wide range of \"Flanimals\" merchandise available, including dolls and gift cards.\n\n\"The Office\" scripts have been released in book form, with Series 1 issued in 2002, and the remaining episodes following in 2003. \"Extras: The Illustrated Scripts: Series 1 & 2\" has been released, as well.\n\n\"The World of Karl Pilkington\" presented by Gervais and Merchant. These were essentially transcripts of Xfm shows podcasts and featured illustrations by Pilkington.\n\nGervais' film career has included small roles as the voice of a pigeon Bugsy, in 2005's \"Valiant\", as a studio executive in 2006's \"For Your Consideration\", as museum director Dr. McPhee in 2006's \"Night at the Museum\" and its sequels \"\" and \"\", and as \"Ferdy the Fence\" in the 2007 film \"Stardust\".\n\nGervais starred in \"Ghost Town\" as a dentist who sees spirits, and was in Lowell, Massachusetts during May 2008 filming his next project, \"The Invention of Lying\", which he starred in along with, Jennifer Garner, Rob Lowe and Louis C.K.. The social comedy, was co-written and co-directed by Gervais and Matt Robinson.\n\nGervais and co-writer Stephen Merchant made a film called \"Cemetery Junction\", set in 1970s Britain, about class, love and fulfilment. The film was released in April 2010.\n\nGervais directed and starred in, \"Special Correspondents\", which began filming in May 2015. The comedy stars Eric Bana as a journalist and Gervais as his assistant. They pretend to report news from a war torn country but in actuality they are safe in New York. The film was released on Netflix. Gervais directed and starred in the 2016 film \"\", a mockumentary following David Brent, a character first seen in \"The Office\" series, as he lives his dream of being a rockstar. On 5 November 2015 Gervais signed up to play Ika Chu, a villainous cat, in an animated film \"Blazing Samurai\". The movie is about a dog Hank played by Michael Cera who wants to be a warrior and fights with Ika Chu for the town of Kakamucho.\n\nOn 2 July 2005, Gervais appeared at the Live 8 event held in London's Hyde Park, where he performed his famous dance.\n\nOn 1 July 2007, Gervais performed at the Concert for Diana in Wembley Stadium, a music event celebrating the life of Princess Diana 10 years after her death. Towards the end of the event—after a pre-recorded introduction from Ben Stiller—Gervais appeared along with fellow \"Office\" star Mackenzie Crook. They performed \"Free Love Freeway\", a song previously heard in the fourth episode of series one of \"The Office\". Due to a technical problem, Gervais then had to fill time until he was able to re-introduce Elton John to close the show, so he did the David Brent dance again, as well as singing the \"Little Fat Man\" song as performed by David Bowie in episode two of the second series of \"Extras\".\n\nIn July 2007, following Gervais' appearance at the memorial concert for the Princess of Wales, \"The Guardian\" ran a column by \"Daily Mirror\" television critic Jim Shelley entitled \"Call Me Crazy... But Has Ricky Gervais Lost It?\", where he described Gervais as a \"tiresome embarrassment\". The following week, \"The Guardian\" noted that Gervais had responded with \"an exhilaratingly foul-mouthed tirade\" on his website, concluding with the sentence \"yes I am resting on my fucking laurels you cunt!\" In this video, Gervais mocked Jim Shelley typing the words \"resting on his laurels\" as Gervais jokingly lashed out by stating that he was resting on his laurels and that he was not going to make another show for television, quipping: \"What's the point? What is there to beat?\"\n\nGervais lives between Hampstead and New York City with his partner, producer and author Jane Fallon, whom he has been with since 1982. He says they chose not to marry because \"there's no point in us having an actual ceremony before the eyes of God because there is no God\" or have children because they \"didn't fancy dedicating 16 years of our lives. And there are too many children, of course\".\n\nGervais is a staunch supporter of gay rights and has praised the introduction of same sex marriage in England and Wales, calling it \"a victory for all of us\" and stated \"anything that promotes equality, promotes progress.\" He added: \"You can't take equality 'too far'.\"\n\nHe identifies as an atheist and a humanist, and states he abandoned Christianity at the age of eight. In December 2010, he wrote an editorial for \"The Wall Street Journal\" defending his atheism. He is a patron of Humanists UK, a British charity which promotes the humanist worldview and campaigns for a secular state and on human rights issues.\n\nGervais is a music fan and has stated that his hero is David Bowie, and his favourite song \"Letter to Hermione\". He has also stated that his first experience of a live music gig was watching Iggy Pop. In 2013, he wrote that Lou Reed was \"one of the greatest artists of our time\" following his death.\n\nHe is a UFC fan saying \"I love the UFC and I can't get enough of it.\"\n\nIn June 2017, Gervais endorsed Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn in the 2017 UK general election. He tweeted: \"OK. I'm not telling you how to vote, but this is a fact. The only vote that will keep Theresa May out is a vote for @jeremycorbyn. Cheers.\"\n\nHe joined Twitter in December 2009 when he first hosted the 66th Golden Globes. After a two-year hiatus, he returned in September 2011. In 2012, Gervais won a Shorty Award for Lifetime Achievement for his popular presence on social media. As of March 2015 he was followed by 7 million fans whom he calls 'Twonks'.\n\nHe uses social media to promote his work to his fans. After 10 years Gervais brought back his character Brent on his YouTube channel in a web series \"Learn Guitar with David Brent\". Gervais uses many ways to promote his new series, for example for \"Derek\", he posts contests or questions for his fans.\n\nGervais uses social media to raise awareness of animal welfare. He tweets links to petitions to rescue animals from captivity, he highlights the plight of animals being used for testing, and he encourages people to adopt dogs instead of buying them from breeders. Gervais won the Genesis Award from the Humane Society in March 2015 for his contribution to raising awareness for animal welfare on social media.\n\nIn 2014, he was named most influential London Twitter user.\n\nIn 2002, Gervais took part in a charity boxing match against Grant Bovey, for the UK charity telethon Comic Relief. He was trained for the three-round contest by famous boxing trainer brothers Frank and Eugene Maloney, at their Fight Factory gymnasium. It was the second televised charity boxing match, the first being Bob Mortimer against Les Dennis. The fight was televised by the BBC, and Gervais came out on top by a split decision verdict. He donated his £5,000 prize money to the training of a Macmillan nurse who specialised in cancer support.\n\nGervais is a supporter of animal rights and has stated that he will leave his fortune to animal charities. He has spoken out against fox hunting and bullfighting, and wrote to then British Prime Minister Gordon Brown urging him to stop the use of black bear fur as caps for the Foot Guards.\n\nIn 2013, Gervais was named Person of the Year by PETA for his work on curbing animal abuse. For PETA Gervais voiced a rabbit and Pink played an alligator in an awareness advertisement. Gervais named an Asian black bear, also known as a moonbear, Derek after his character Derek Noakes from his series \"Derek\". In December 2013, Gervais bought a $1000 cake shaped like a moonbear to raise funds for Animal Asia. Gervais is active in the prevention of illegal wildlife trade; he supported the handing over of ivory trinkets to the Metropolitan police in London.\n\nIn 2015, Gervais donated a signed acoustic guitar to help raise funds for Story Book Farm Primate Sanctuary in Ontario, Canada, with a special call-out to Pockets Warhol. The guitar which was signed by Gervais was purchased by Danny Young from the United Kingdom who has since had the guitar signed by several celebrities in order to raise further funds for the Story Book Farm Primate Sanctuary. Celebrities who signed the guitar include: Brian May, Will Ferrell, Bryan Cranston, Dhani Harrison, Peter Frampton, Ricky Warwick and Steve Cutts.\n\nIn 2017, Gervais was awarded the Lord Houghton Award for Service to Animal Welfare from Animal Defenders International.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12182543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12182543", "title": "Scientology in Australia", "text": "Scientology in Australia\n\nScientology has existed in Australia since the early 1950s. The number of adherents varies depending upon the source: according to the 2011 census, it has a declining population, 2,163 members, down from 2,507 in 2006, while Scientology itself has claimed 150,000 members in Australia. The 2016 census records 1,684 people describing their religion as Scientology. It has headquarters in Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Adelaide, and Canberra, along with a mission in Tasmania. The Church of Scientology Australia is the regional headquarters for the entire Asian and Pacific area.\n\nAs early as 1950, Dianetics was mentioned in Australia as \"the latest craze in Hollywood\" and the \"Hubbard sub-mind method\" was explained under the heading \"World of Science\". However, this also meant Hubbard, founder of the Dianetics Mental Health movement, was also newsworthy when his wife claimed he was 'hopelessly insane' in their divorce case and this was reported in several major papers.\n\nBy the early 1950s, advertisements mentioning Scientology began to appear in newspapers. Scientology Associates (Mental Health) offered \"professional psycho-therapeutic treatments\" while for \"Rev. John R. Farrell, Church of Scientology\" it was \"Personal Relations. – I will talk to anyone for you about anything\". And in April 1954 the Hubbard Association of Scientologists International held the First Australian Scientology Congress in Prahran, Victoria, over four days, featuring \"American Lecturers, John and Tuck Farrell, and English lecturer, Raymond Kemp, all Doctors of Scientology\".\n\nIn 1959, L. Ron Hubbard travelled to Australia and delivered lectures on 7 to 8 November at the Melbourne Congress and the First Melbourne Advanced Clinical Course from 9 to 30 November.\n\nThrough its group Citizens Commission on Human Rights, Scientology is active in the media about what it claims are the dangers of psychiatric drugs and the treatment of ADHD and has arranged at least one anti-psychiatry exhibition in Australia. That exhibition, which opened in Sydney in September 2006, was criticised by Christopher Pyne, then the federal government's parliamentary secretary for health with special responsibilities for mental health. Pyne told \"The Daily Telegraph\":\n\n\"It's incredibly irresponsible...What if a patient, after seeing this exhibition, decided to stop seeing a psychiatrist? The outcome could be tragic... It's ill-informed and it's dangerous to undermine a highly respected and important part of the medical profession... Patients who see a psychiatrist shouldn't have their faith in psychiatry shaken by crackpot claims.\"\n\nIn response, Shelly Wilkins, executive director of the exhibition \"said the campaign was not against psychiatrists, but their treatments\".\n\nScientology, through its group Narconon, has run an anti-drug campaign in dozens of schools in Melbourne, giving presentations and handing out brochures. Scientology members have also attended events like the Big Day Out to give out anti-drug information.\n\nOne school in Australia, the Athena School in Newtown, Sydney, uses Scientology study technology. The Athena School has 90 pupils ranging from pre-school to year 10. It has eight teachers who have completed six months' training in L. Ron Hubbard teaching techniques but do not hold formal qualifications. Some children at the school are involved in Scientology community out reach programs operating under different names, including Drug Free Ambassadors.\n\nA book released detailing Tom Cruise's activities within Scientology was banned by the major Australian booksellers in Australia, including Dymocks and Angus and Robertson, after threats of legal action by the Church of Scientology. The book, \"\" by British writer Andrew Morton, had been pulled from sale in the UK, and made a number of claims against Cruise and claims about Scientology trying to influence Nicole Kidman. The Australian arm of publisher Pan Macmillan had planned to print a local Australian edition, but decided not to, after legal advice that the Church would act against them. This resulted in the book not being stocked by the Borders chain in Australia. Though certain bookstores in Australia refused to sell the book due to legal concerns, it was the number one bestseller in Australia for publisher AbeBooks in 2008, and the number one most-borrowed non-fiction book at libraries in Brisbane in September 2008.\n\n\"Tom Cruise: An Unauthorized Biography\" was published in January 2008, and reprinted with an update in February 2009. In a \"New York Times\" review, Janet Maslin wrote \"... Mr. Morton has found a number of former Scientologists who are willing to speak freely, and in some cases vengefully, about the group's purported inner workings. Mr. Morton's eagerness to include their voices leads him to push the limits of responsible reporting.\" Maslin added that Morton \"provides a credible portrait extrapolated from the actor's on-the-record remarks and highly visible public behavior.\" Writing in \"Entertainment Weekly\", Mark Harris gave the book a grade of \"C-\", and said \"Cruise emerges from Morton's takedown moderately scratched but as uncracked as ever.\" Another review in the \"New York Times\" by Ada Calhooun said:\n\nTeresa Budasi of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" described the book as \"fascinating\", although Budasi also brought up a \"question as to what's true and what isn’t.\" Budasi summed up her impression of the work, writing \"Morton's book is as much an indictment on Cruise's chosen faith as it is the life story of one of the world's biggest movie stars. And by the end you realize that 'Scientologist' is what will end up being the role of his lifetime.\" In a review in \"The Buffalo News\", Jeff Simon wrote of the author: \"To give Morton the credit he's clearly due: he is one of the best around at constructing a 250-page gossip column.\"\n\nUpon its publication, Cruise's lawyer and the Church of Scientology released statements which question the truthfulness of assertions made by Morton in the book. In a 15-page statement released to the press, the Church of Scientology called the book \"a bigoted, defamatory assault replete with lies.\" The book was not published in the UK, Australia, or New Zealand due to strict libel laws in those countries.\n\nGovernment criticism of the Church of Scientology was begun by a Victorian public servant, Dr Eric Cunningham Dax, the founding Chairman of the Mental Hygiene Authority of Victoria (later known as the Mental Health Authority). Giving testimony at the Anderson Report inquiry in 1964 he stated that 'Since 1961 he had been increasingly concerned by information reaching the Mental Health Authority about people paying large sums of money for \"Scientology\" courses'. As part of these efforts, in 1962, Dax wrote to the Minister of Health in each Australian state, warning of what he considered to be the dangers of this new religion.\n\nIn November 1963 John Galbally, member of the Victorian Legislative Council 'accused the scientology movement of using blackmail and intimidation' which he said 'could lead to suicides'. Galbally proposed 'a Private Member's Bill to deal with scientology' and the following week the government announced a proposed inquiry.\n\nBased on the findings of the 1965 Anderson Inquiry, to which Dax contributed, the Church of Scientology was restricted from forming under that name in Australia. The Attorney General in New South Wales was one of the first to act and, a week after the report was published, instructed the state's Registrar of Companies 'not to register companies or firms with the word \"scientology\" in their names'. The ban in Victoria lasted from 1965 until 1973, in South Australia from 1968 to 1973 and in Western Australia from 1968 until 1972. As a response to the banning of Scientology in WA and SA, Scientology changed its name to the Church of the New Faith, a body incorporated in Adelaide in 1969, and continued to operate in those two states. However, it closed its Spring St office in Melbourne, Victoria.\n\nThe magistrates in the 1983 Victorian Court actions (see below) referenced the Anderson Inquiry, particularly that it was \"Uncompromising in its denunciation of Scientology as a profoundly evil movement from which gullible – and the not so gullible – members of the community required protection\", that it had \"gained publicity in countries and states where the organization was entrenched\"; that the leaders of the Scientology movement succumbed to the temptation to avoid \"destruction\" of the movement by simulating, so as to become accepted as, a religion; that \"the ecclesiastical appearance now assumed by the organization is no more than colourable in order to serve an ulterior purpose\"; and, ultimately, that Scientology\n\n\"... is, in relation to its religious pretensions, no more than a sham. The bogus claims to belief in the efficacy of prayer and to being adherent to a creed divinely inspired and also the calculated adoption of the paraphernalia, and participation in ceremonies, of conventional religion are no more than a mockery of religion. Thus scientology as now practiced is in reality the antithesis of a religion. The very adriotness – and alacrity – with which the tenets or structure were from time so cynically adapted to meet a deficiency thought to operate in detraction of the claim to classification as a religion serve to rob the movement of that sincerity and integrity that must be cardinal features of any religious faith\".\nAnderson's tone was strident, but offered in his own defence:\nIf there should be detected in this Report a note of unrelieved denunciation of scientology, it is because the evidence has shown its theories to be fantastic and impossible, its principles perverted and ill-founded, and its techniques debased and harmful. [...] While making an appeal to the public as a worthy system whereby ability, intelligence and personality may be improved, it employs techniques which further its real purpose of securing domination over and mental enslavement of its adherents. It involves the administration by persons without any training in medicine or psychology of quasi-psychological treatment, which is harmful medically, morally and socially.\n\nIn Victoria this inquiry led to a ban and was legislated in the \"Psychological Practices Act, 1965\", which prohibited using an E-meter or teaching Scientology for fee or reward. In the understanding that Scientology was a form of psychology, this law required anyone practising psychology to register with the newly established Victorian Psychological Council. However, it exempted any religious denomination recognised by the Australian government under the federal Marriage Act since it used a definition of psychology broad enough to include the counselling traditionally done by priests and ministers of religion. Although similar laws were later passed in Western Australia in 1968 (the \"Scientology Act\") and South Australia (the \"Scientology (Prohibition) Act, 1968\" replaced by the \"Psychological Practices Act, 1973\"), the Church remained active in these two States.\n\nIn January 1973, the newly elected federal Labor government recognised the Church of Scientology as a religious denomination under the Marriage Act, making it effectively exempt from the provisions of the Victorian \"Psychological Practices Act\". Western Australia had already repealed its \"Scientology Act\" in the previous year.\n\nOn 25 February 1981, officials of Scientology urged repeal of the Victorian \"Psychological Practices Act\", which was subsequently amended by the \"Psychologists Registration (Scientology) Act, 1982\" to remove all references to Scientology. This Act was repealed by the \"Psychologists Registration Act, 1987\". The South Australian \"Psychological Practices Act\" has remained in force and has a necessary role in regulating the activities of psychologists and hypnotists in that State. However, neither this Act itself nor the current regulations now contain any reference to Scientology. The Western Australian \"Scientology Act, 1968\" was repealed in 1972, and replaced by a \"Psychologists Registration Act, 1976\". with similar provisions to regulate psychologists.\n\nIn 1983, the matter went to the Courts in the State of Victoria and subsequently to the High Court of Australia. Scientologists argued a $70 payroll tax should not be paid due to its status as a religious organisation. The Commissioner of Pay-Roll Tax in Victoria had ruled that Scientology was not a religion. This decision was upheld in the Supreme Court of Victoria (Judge: Crockett,J) and then on appeal in the Full Court. The judgement concluding Scientology was not a religion relied on the premise that Scientology was a philosophy rather than a religion and that the trappings of religion had only been acquired after its establishment in order to give the organisation the semblance of a religion. Some support of this position was found in Scientologist writings: Scientology's predecessor in Australia was the Hubbard Association of Scientologist International (\"H.A.S.I.\"), This association had published, at some time not earlier than 1961, a magazine which unequivocally asserted \"H.A.S.I. is non-religious -it does not demand any belief or faith nor is it in conflict with faith. People of all faiths use Scientology.\"\n\nThe full bench of the Victorian Supreme Court affirmed that the \n\"Introduction of a service, ceremonies and other external indicia of a religion is no more than a cynical desire to present Scientology as what it is not for such mundane purposes as acquiring the protection of constitutional guarantees of freedom of religion or obtaining exemption from the burden of taxing laws... The creed and services described in a 1959 booklet called \"Ceremonies of The Founding Church of Scientology\" which had been published in America played absolutely no part in the teaching or practice of Scientology until the late nineteen sixties; These so-called ceremonies were devised and published as a device to enable, with such attendant advantages as would thereby accrue, Scientology to be paraded as a church in the United States and should properly be described as a masquerade and a charade.\"\nThus the Victorian court found that a considerable transformation had ostensibly occurred. The court found that \"the ecclesiastical appearance now assumed by the organization is no more than colourable in order to serve an ulterior purpose\", namely, the purpose of acquiring the legal status of a religion so that the organization might have the fiscal and other benefits of that status in Australia and elsewhere and the purpose of avoiding the legal disabilities to which the organization was subject by reason of the Psychological Practices Act 1965 (Vict.). He expressed his clear conviction that the purported transformation of Scientology to a religion was\n\n\"No more than a sham, the proclaimed belief in the efficacy of prayer is bogus, and the adoption of the paraphernalia and ceremonies of conventional religion is a mockery. The very adroitness – and alacrity – with which the tenets or structure were from time (to time) so cynically adapted to meet a deficiency thought to operate in detraction of the claim to classification as a religion serve to rob the movement of that sincerity and integrity that must be cardinal features of any religious faith.\"\nThough the court found that at least some parts of Mr. Hubbard's writing contained merely pretended doctrines and practices of Scientology, he also found that members of the Scientology movement are \"expected to and, apostates excepted, accord blind reverence to the written works of Mr. Hubbard. Although the sincerity and integrity of the ordinary members of the Scientology movement are not in doubt, Scientology is no less a sham because there are others prepared to accept and act upon such aims and beliefs as though they were credible when they can not see them for what they are. Gullibility cannot convert something from what it is to something which it is not\".\n\nAll these judgements were subsequently overturned by the Scientologist's appeal to the High Court of Australia in 1983, in \"Church of the New Faith v. Commissioner Of Pay-roll Tax\". The court ruled that the government of Victoria could not deny the Church the right to operate in Victoria under the legal status of \"religion\" for purposes of payroll taxes. All three judges in the case found that the Church of the New Faith (Church of Scientology) was a religion. Justices Mason and Brennan said:\n\nbut that:\n\nJustice Murphy said:\nand\n\nWilson and Deane said:\n\nThe High Court of Australia restored Scientology's tax exempt status in 1983. The High Court's decision, dismissing the earlier judgements, now serves as the current precedent for defining religious groups. As part of the court’s judgment, according to scholar James Richardson: “the Court went on to state that a religion did not have to be theistic, and that a religion involved both belief and behavior, thus avoiding crude dichotomy promulgated by the famous polygamy case in America in 1897. The case is still the leading case in Australia defining religion, and is cited in other courts and countries as well.”\n\nLinda Walicki, who was diagnosed with a psychiatric illness, was not administered psychiatric drugs prescribed by the hospital because of the beliefs of her Scientologist parents. Instead her parents administered vitamins imported from the United States. Her condition worsened, and her parents became alarmed, finally relenting and administering the prescribed medicine. However, three weeks later, she assaulted them, killing her father Michael and sister Kathryn, and wounding her mother Sue. The mother has since recovered.\n\nAfter the incident, Australian Church of Scientology vice-president Cyrus Brooks in Sydney continued to criticise Psychiatry and Psychiatric drugs, while the Australian Medical Association President Dr Rosanna Capolingua, speaking on ABC Radio, said if \"the girl had had access to appropriate medical treatment it could have changed the course of her life.\"\n\nLinda has since been found not guilty by reason of insanity and has been taken to a hospital for further treatment.\n\nIn the Queen Street massacre case, the gunman, Frank Vitkovic, had been tested by the Church of Scientology two months before he shot a number of people in the Queen Street Massacre. \"Vitkovic took a personality test carried out by a Church of Scientology volunteer. The results of the test, the Scientology volunteer believed, made her suspect that he might have hit rock bottom. The voluntary worker, Ms Eleanor Simpson, who had no formal training in psychology, believed Vitkovic was extremely depressed. She could recall only one other personality test having a worse result. She did not refer Vitkovic to a psychiatrist but suggested he enrol in the Ups and Downs in Life course run by the Church.\" Forensic psychiatrist Dr Alan Bartholomew presented evidence at the Inquest concerning Scientology's testing of gunman Frank Vitkovic. Bartholomew indicated that the Scientologist's testing of the gunman Frank Vitkovic, though revealing that Vitkovic was suffering a serious mental condition, did not result in his being treated effectively. Bartholomew also stated that the test itself may have contributed to Vitkovic's mental state before he shot eight people in 1988. While repeating some of these comments the Coroner said in his findings \"there is no evidence that Vitkovic was influenced by his being provided with the written results of a Scientology Personality Test\". The Coroner also noted the day before coming into the Church of Scientology Vitkovic was prescribed \"appropriate medication\" for stress related headaches and hypertension. An alternative interpretation of events is provided by the Director of the Australian Institute of Criminology Adam Graycar:\n\nIn November 2009 Independent Senator Nick Xenophon spoke in the parliament about the organisation, describing it as a \"criminal organisation\" and saying that he had letters from former followers which included \"claims of abuse, false imprisonment and forced abortion.\" His staff interviewed a number of people who made the claims. Xenophon called for a parliamentary enquiry to investigate the Church's activities and its tax-exempt status.\n\nIn March 2010, Xenophon's call for an inquiry was \"overwhelmingly rejected\" by the Australian Senate, the senators voting 33 to 6 against, with 37 abstentions; Xenophon said he would \"continue to push for an inquiry when parliament reconvenes in May.\" Xenophon provided further details of his position when he spoke to his motion and Australian Greens Senators Milne and Brown also spoke in support. Liberal Party Senator Eric Abetz and Cory Bernardi spoke against.\n\nAustralian Greens Senators Sarah Hanson-Young, Scott Ludlam and Rachel Siewert joined Xenophon, Milne and Brown in voting for the motion.\n\nThose Senators who voted against the motion were:\n\n\n\nOn 22 June 2010, Senator David Feeney presented the report 'Persons referred to in the Senate — Ms Vicki Dunstan on behalf of the Church of Scientology Australia' in parliament and moved that it be adopted. The report was a response 'to comments made by Senators Xenophon, Milne and Bob Brown in the Senate on 11 and 18 March 2010 during debates to refer matters relating to the Church of Scientology' and was tabled to provide 'a right of reply... to persons who claim to have been adversely affected by being referred to, either by name or in such a way as to be readily identified, in the Senate'. The effect of tabling the report was to enter the Church of Scientology's response to Senators Xenophon, Christine Milne and Bob Brown, in full, into Hansard, the permanent public record of the Parliament of Australia.\n\nAfter Scientology related material was sent to NSW schools, the NSW Government warned principals about a Church of Scientology attempt to infiltrate primary schools with propaganda videos and booklets aimed at Year 6 students. Education Minister Verity Firth has warned all NSW primary schools after a DVD was distributed about a Scientology organisation called \"Youth for Human Rights\". The DVD was sent to various schools for the students, and didn't reveal it was connected to the Church of Scientology.\n\"It's not appropriate for the Church of Scientology to distribute materials\", Ms Firth said.\n\nIn February 2013, the ABC television program, \"Lateline\", accused the Church Of Scientology of holding a Taiwanese woman, Alice Wu, in isolation in a Sydney property, after she suffered an extreme mental breakdown. It was also suggested the Church had bullied her into signing legal statements she did not necessarily agree to.\n\nNoted Australian members of the church are a singer popular in the 1980s Kate Ceberano. Media tycoon James Packer has been involved with the church but left in 2008. Aaron Saxton, a former member of the Sea Org, rose to prominence as a whistleblower in 2009, when allegations he had made in his correspondence with Senator Xenophon were discussed in the Australian Senate. Other members include Lindy McNocher who is the owned a company called Gallop Consulting based in Sydney. They were a member of the World Institute of Scientology Enterprises and they sold tools based on The Hubbard Management Business System [HMBS].\n\nThe Church of Scientology has been involved in a number of lawsuits and threatened legal action during its five decade history in Australia.\n\n\nScientology used a notable promotion in Sydney for many years, an \"electronic talking billboard\" a 33 metre high Volcano billboard situated in the main cinema district on George Street.\nThe Volcano billboard was \"33 metres wide, 10 metres high and projects three-and-a-half-metres from the Metro's facade. It is internally illuminated by 150 special display lamps synchronised to create a stylised simulation of lava flowing down the sides of the volcano. Each eruption heralds the screening of ads on the TV screen. Non-toxic smoke will spew from the crater at regular intervals.\" The billboard was used to promote Dianetics books.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25181229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25181229", "title": "Sultanganj Buddha", "text": "Sultanganj Buddha\n\nThe Sultanganj Buddha is a Gupta-Pala transitional period sculpture, the largest substantially complete copper Buddha figure known from the time. The statue is dated by archaeologists to between 500 and 700 AD. It is 2.3 m high and 1 m wide and weighs over 500 kg. It was found in the North Indian town of Sultanganj, Bhagalpur district, Bihar in 1861 during the construction of the East Indian Railway. It is now held by Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery, Birmingham, England.\n\nThe Sultanganj Buddha was cast in pure, unrefined copper by the \"cire perdue\", or lost wax, technique. It stands with his right hand raised in \"abhayamudra\" (a gesture of reassurance or protection), and his left hand is held downwards with palm outwards, said to indicate granting a favour. The end of the monastic robe is held between the thumb and forefinger of this hand in the manner that is still practised by Theravadin monks.\n\nE. B. Harris, the railway engineer who discovered the Buddha during excavations that he carried out on ancient remains near the Sultanganj station that he was constructing, published a detailed account of his work, complete with a site plan and photographs. He describes finding the right foot of the Buddha ten feet under the surface, beneath a floor he considered to have been used to conceal the statue after it had been toppled from its former place. Harris sent the statue to Birmingham, the cost of its transport to England being paid by Samuel Thornton, a Birmingham manufacturer of ironmongery. Thornton, himself a former mayor of Birmingham, offered it to the Borough Council for their proposed Art Museum in 1864. In Birmingham, a town that boasted a thousand trades, the Art Museum was intended to be an exemplar and inspiration for local metalworkers and other artisans.\n\nOver the years, it has been shown in a number of prominent locations throughout Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery (BMAG) and remains an indispensable display item. It was the foundation donation to the collections and is BMAG's most treasured possession. Harris's report shows him with the Buddha and a number of smaller finds. They included two much smaller standing Buddhas in stone: one is now in the British Museum and the other in the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco. A stone Buddha head, also from Sultanganj, is now in the Victoria and Albert Museum, London.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2015, the Buddha was the centrepiece of a gallery at Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery dedicated to displaying a number of Buddhas and related artefacts, and Birmingham Museum held an annual 'Buddha Day', when West Midlands-based Buddhist groups from a range of traditions would bless the statue.\n\nDuring 2015, Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery worked with representatives of a number of faith groups from the city on the creation of a new 'Faith Gallery', and the Sultanganj Buddha was moved from its previous location. It is now displayed in a new gallery that tells the story of the range of faiths that are practiced in Birmingham.\n\n"}
{"id": "42458854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42458854", "title": "Suunism", "text": "Suunism\n\nSuunism () is one of the Korean ethnic religions derived from Sinism. It is a splinter from Cheondoism that in turn originated as an organised formation of the Donghak movement. \"Suwun\" was another name used by Choe Je-u. Suwunists claim to have transmitted a purer version of his teaching.\n\nThe religion's headquarters are located in Daejeon, where Suwun himself moved in 1929 after having preached in Seoul since 1923. The religion focuses on the worship of \"Okhwangsangje Hanulim\" (the \"Great Jade Emperor of Heaven\"), in order to make the earth a paradise through the reconnection to the One. An important symbol of the faith is \"Gungeul\" (\"Archer Bird\"). The doctrine includes belief in the Maitreya.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42362655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42362655", "title": "Tefibi", "text": "Tefibi\n\nTefibi (or Itj-ibj – \"It(.i)ib(.i)\" – in a more modern reading) was an ancient Egyptian nomarch of the 13th \"nomos\" of Upper Egypt (\"the Upper Sycamore\") during the 10th Dynasty (c. 21st century BCE, during the First Intermediate Period). In addition, he also was \"hereditary prince, count, wearer of the royal seal, sole companion\" and \"high priest of Wepwawet\". The main source about his life came from his biography, inscribed on the \"tomb III\" in Asyut.\n\nIt is generally assumed that Tefibi was the second of a trio of related nomarchs datable to the Herakleopolite period; he was likely preceded by his father Khety and followed by his son, also named Khety.\n\nHe was member of a long line of nomarchs in Asyut with strong bonds of loyalty and friendship towards the Herakleopolite dynasty, and seems that he continued the policy of good governance pursued by his father Khety I: in fact, Tefibi praised the safety and the respect of the laws in his \"nomos\".<br>\nWhen the Thebans extended their influences on Thinis and Abydos, the Herakleopolite pharaoh (who is generally believed to be Wahkare Khety) and Tefibi rallied their troops, and swiftly regained Thinis. Their undisciplined soldiers sacked the sacred necropolis, as reported by the king himself in the \"Teaching for King Merykare\".\n\nTefibi died during the reign of king Merykare, who installed Khety II, son of the deceased, as nomarch in Asyut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55117772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55117772", "title": "The Doctrine of Tenrikyo", "text": "The Doctrine of Tenrikyo\n\nThe Doctrine of Tenrikyo (天理教教典 \"Tenrikyo kyoten\") is the doctrine of the Tenrikyo religion, published and sanctioned by Tenrikyo Church Headquarters. \"The Doctrine of Tenrikyo\" is one of the supplemental texts (準原典 \"jun-genten\") of the Tenrikyo scriptures, along with \"The Life of Oyasama\" and \"Anecdotes of Oyasama\".\n\nIn May 1903, Tenrikyo Church Headquarters created a doctrine of the Tenrikyo teachings, referred to as the \"Meiji doctrine\" (明治教典) or the \"former doctrine\" (旧教典) to distinguish it from the doctrine published after World War II. The doctrine's compilation was part of the church's effort to become an independent Shinto sect at the turn of the century, which would be achieved a few years later in 1908. Because the doctrine had to be authorized by the Shinto Main Bureau, an official government body, the Tenrikyo teachings presented therein conformed to State Shinto ideology, which promoted patriotism and reverence for the emperor. The Meiji Doctrine was divided into ten chapters – 'Revering God,' 'Respecting the Emperor,' 'Loving the Nation,' 'Morality,' 'Accumulating Virtues,' 'Cleansing of Impurities,' 'Founding of the Teachings,' 'Repayment to God,' 'The Kagura', and 'Peace of Mind.' Tenrikyo Church Headquarters compiled the doctrine with the collaboration of scholars Nakanishi Ushirō, Inoue Yorikuni, and Henmi Nakasaburō, who were specialists in religion, \"kokugaku\", and Japanese classics respectively.\n\nIn the first half of the twentieth century, the Meiji doctrine was used in the schools of Tenrikyo's education system, such as Tenri Seminary. In 1912, two texts related to this doctrine, a commentary and a reference text, were published.\n\nAfter World War II and the assurance of religious freedom under the 1947 Constitution of Japan, a new doctrine based solely on Nakayama Miki's teachings was compiled. This doctrine was originally published by Tenrikyo Church Headquarters as \"Tenrikyo Kyoten\" (天理教教典) on October 26, 1949, with the authorization of Nakayama Shozen, the Second Shinbashira. Since then, the \"Tenrikyo Kyoten\" has undergone one revision in 1984.\n\nThe first English edition of \"The Doctrine of Tenrikyo\" was published in 1954. The current edition is the tenth edition, published in 1993.\n\nThe current \"Doctrine of Tenrikyo\" is primarily based on Tenrikyo's three scriptures, the \"Ofudesaki\", \"Mikagura-uta\", and the \"Osashizu\". Other sources include an early biography of Nakayama Miki by her grandson Nakayama Shinnosuke, Shinnosuke's notes on Miki's teachings, and writings of those who heard Miki's teachings directly. Specifically regarding the Service, the \"Doctrine of Tenrikyo\" refers to \"Hitokotohanashi Dai San Kan,\" and regarding Tenri-O-no-Mikoto, the \"Doctrine of Tenrikyo\" refers to \"A Study on \"God,\" \"Tsukihi,\" and \"Parent\"\" (「神」「月日」及び「をや」について \"Kami Tsukihi oyobi Oya ni tsuite\").\n\nThe outline of the Doctrine of Tenrikyo is as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18999926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18999926", "title": "Union of Cambodian Democrats", "text": "Union of Cambodian Democrats\n\nThe Union of Cambodian Democrats was a political alliance in Cambodia, which was formed by three political parties, one of them being the Khmer Nation Party of Sam Rainsy, Prince Norodom Ranariddh was involved as well. These three political parties called their umbrella group the \"Union of Cambodian Democrats\". It was created in exile in 1997 after a coup d'etat. The leaders of three political parties which united their leadership and political parties together to create the Union of Cambodian Democrats were Sam Rainsy's Sam Rainsy Party, Son Sann's Buddhist Liberal Democratic Party (now led by Son Soubert) and also prince Norodom Ranariddh's FUNCINPEC party. However, from the late 90's onwards a new political party,the Bou Hel and Ty Chhin's Khmer Neutral Party, became part of the alliance .\nIts goals are democracy, peace and sovereignty of what they consider as being the territories of Cambodia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2529751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2529751", "title": "Universal Torah Registry", "text": "Universal Torah Registry\n\nThe Universal Torah Registry is a project of the JCRC (Jewish Community Relations Council) of New York City, originally established in 1982, designed to protect and secure Torah scrolls of Jewish communities, from theft. As these scrolls may be valued at between $5,000 to $20,000, and could fetch similar amounts on the black market, synagogues have been a target of thieves.\n\nThe UTR currently has approximately 1000 subscribing synagogues nationwide. Some synagogues and Jewish communities are not aware of this program, and in some communities, religious leaders refuse to endorse the program.\n\n"}
{"id": "92675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92675", "title": "Yum Kaax", "text": "Yum Kaax\n\nYum Kaax (Mayan pronunciation: [jum kaːʃ], 'Lord of the forest') is a Yukatek Maya name for the god of the wild vegetation and guardian of its animals. \n\nIn the past, this character has wrongly been described as an agricultural deity, or even as the Maya maize god (god E of the codices), which has become a popular and still existing misconception. In ethnographic reality, Yum Kaax is a god of wild plants and of animals that are important to hunters. As such, he grants protection of the fields against the incursions of the wild nature he himself represents. This type of deity is also found among indigenous peoples of North America. Invoked by hunters, he is the owner of all the game. He can appear to hunters in an instant and possesses songs that will warrant a hunter success, and allow his arrows to come back to him.\n\nPre-Columbian contact, Yum Kaax was considered one of the most important deities in the Maya Pantheon and was used to help those who hunted for their food. Tradition farmers would invoke his name and present him with the first fruits of their fields, carved out from the forest so that wild animals and vegetation would not destroy their fields. Hunters far out in the wilderness would sometimes take off their shirt, spread it over four stakes in the ground and then crawl underneath to try and find deer. This is a ritual to Yum Kaax so that deer become easier to find. \n\nMayan Sorcerers have learned many secrets from Yum Kaax, and these would be used to help one get better results while hunting. some of the advice given was: When you go hunting, you must first offer Yum Kaax 5 jars of Balché or nine of chocozacan. To find game, create a candle of Copal and follow the flicker of the flame. To select your own private hunting ground, kill a deer and cut off its head and then drag the head around the hunting ground and bury the head with its liver – the area that you have dragged the head over will become your own private hunting ground. \n"}
