{"id": "42034754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42034754", "title": "1969 International Meeting of Communist and Workers Parties", "text": "1969 International Meeting of Communist and Workers Parties\n\nOn 5–17 June 1969, an International Meeting of Communist and Workers Parties was held in Moscow. The meeting occurred in the aftermath of the Sino-Soviet split and the Soviet intervention in Czechoslovakia. The preceding international meeting, held in Moscow in 1960, had been dominated by disputes between the Communist Party of the Soviet Union on one hand and the Communist Party of China and the Party of Labour of Albania on the other. By this time the split between the two poles had been finalized. Pro-Chinese elements were absent from this event. However the phenomenon of Eurocommunism had begun to emerge, which was notable amongst some of the delegations present.\n\nNotably the Workers Party of Korea and the Workers Party of Vietnam, both cautious at the time to take a stand in the Sino-Soviet conflict, were absent.\n\nThe two main points of discussion of the conference was the strategy of cooperation with anti-imperialist forces and the centenary celebrations of the birth of Lenin. On both issues, the conference passed a document. The document on the Lenin birth centenary was passed unanimously, but the document on the alliances between communist parties and anti-imperialist forces was not signed by the Norwegian, Dominican and British delegations. The Italian, Sammarinese, Austrian and Reunionese delegations only signed one of the four parts of the document.\n\nDelegation leaders in brackets. Names of some underground parties were left out in official conference reports, and are thus not included here. Participants in \"italics\" were from countries where the Communist Party was banned.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7139438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7139438", "title": "Absolute gain (international relations)", "text": "Absolute gain (international relations)\n\nAccording to liberal realist international relations theory, absolute gain is what international actors look at in determining their interests, weighing out the total effects of a decision on the state or organization and acting accordingly. The international actor's interests not only include power but also encompass the economic and cultural effects of an action as well. The theory is also interrelated with a non-zero-sum game which proposes that through use of comparative advantage, all states who engage in peaceful relations and trade can expand wealth.\n\nThis differs from theories that employ relative gain, which seeks to describe the actions of states only in respect to power balances and without regard to other factors, such as economics. Relative gain is related to zero-sum game, which states that wealth cannot be expanded and the only way a state can become richer is to take wealth from another state.\n"}
{"id": "44997516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44997516", "title": "Abu al-Fadl al-Abbas Forces", "text": "Abu al-Fadl al-Abbas Forces\n\nQaeda Quwet Abu Fadl al-Abbas (QQAFA; \"Qa‘īda Quwa ‘Ābū al-Faḍl al-‘Abbās\"), or the Abu al-Fadl al-Abbas Forces, is a Shiite militia operating in Iraq, formed following the June 2014 during ISIL advances. The force is affiliated with Sheikh Aws al-Khafaji, who was previously aligned with Muqtada al-Sadr. The group claims an affinity with the similarly named Liwa Abu al-Fadhal al-Abbas group fighting in Syrian Civil War on behalf of the Syrian government. QQAFA also appears to have deep links to Kataib al-Imam Ali.\n\n"}
{"id": "45049676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45049676", "title": "Adversarial machine learning", "text": "Adversarial machine learning\n\nAdversarial machine learning is a research field that lies at the intersection of machine learning and computer security. It aims to enable the safe adoption of machine learning techniques in adversarial settings, such as spam filtering, malware detection, and biometric recognition.\n\nMachine learning techniques were originally designed for stationary environments in which the training and test data are assumed to be generated from the same (although possibly unknown) distribution. However, In the presence of intelligent and adaptive adversaries this working hypothesis is likely to be violated to at least some degree (depending on the adversary). In fact, a malicious adversary can carefully manipulate the input data, exploiting specific vulnerabilities of learning algorithms to compromise the whole system security.\n\nExamples include attacks in spam filtering, where spam messages are obfuscated through misspelling of \"bad\" words or insertion of \"good\" words, attacks in computer security such as obfuscating malware code within network packets or to mislead signature detection, attacks in biometric recognition where fake biometric traits may be exploited to impersonate a legitimate user, or to compromise users' template galleries that adapt to updated over time.\n\nIn 2017, researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 3-D printed a toy turtle with a texture engineered to make Google's object detection AI classify it as a rifle, no matter the angle the turtle was viewed from. Creating the turtle required only low-cost commercially available 3-D printing technology. In 2018, Google Brain published a machine-tweaked image of a dog that looked like a cat both to computers and to humans.\n\nTo understand the security properties of learning algorithms in adversarial settings, one should address the following main issues:\n\nThis process amounts to simulating a proactive arms race (instead of a reactive one, as depicted in Figures 1 and 2), where system designers try to anticipate the adversary in order to understand whether there are potential vulnerabilities that should be fixed in advance; for instance, by means of specific countermeasures such as additional features or different learning algorithms. However proactive approaches are not necessarily superior to reactive ones. For instance, it was shown that under some circumstances, reactive approaches are more suitable for improving system security.\nThe first step of the above-sketched arms race is identifying potential attacks against machine learning algorithms. A substantial amount of work has been done in this direction.\n\nAttacks against (supervised) machine learning algorithms have been categorized along three primary axes: their \"influence\" on the classifier, the \"security violation\" they cause, and their \"specificity\".\n\n\nThis taxonomy has been extended into a more comprehensive threat model that allows one to make explicit assumptions on the adversary's goal, knowledge of the attacked system, capability of manipulating the input data and/or the system components, and on the corresponding (potentially, formally-defined) attack strategy. Details can be found here. Two of the main attack scenarios identified according to this threat model are sketched below.\n\nEvasion attacks are the most prevalent type of attack that may be encountered in adversarial settings during system operation. For instance, spammers and hackers often attempt to evade detection by obfuscating the content of spam emails and malware code. In the evasion setting, malicious samples are modified at test time to evade detection; that is, to be misclassified as legitimate. No influence over the training data is assumed.\nA clear example of evasion is image-based spam in which the spam content is embedded within an attached image to evade the textual analysis performed by anti-spam filters.\nAnother example of evasion is given by spoofing attacks against biometric verification systems.\n\nMachine learning algorithms are often re-trained on data collected during operation to adapt to changes in the underlying data distribution. For instance, intrusion detection systems (IDSs) are often re-trained on a set of samples collected during network operation. Within this scenario, an attacker may poison the training data by injecting carefully designed samples to eventually compromise the whole learning process. Poisoning may thus be regarded as an adversarial contamination of the training data. Examples of poisoning attacks against machine learning algorithms (including learning in the presence of worst-case adversarial label flips in the training data) can be found in.\n\nClustering algorithms have been increasingly adopted in security applications to find dangerous or illicit activities. For instance, clustering of malware and computer viruses aims to identify and categorize different existing malware families, and generate specific signatures for their detection by anti-viruses, or signature-based intrusion detection systems like Snort.\n\nHowever, clustering algorithms have not been originally devised to deal with deliberate attack attempts that are designed to subvert the clustering process itself. Whether clustering can be safely adopted in such settings thus remains questionable. Preliminary work reporting some vulnerability of clustering can be found in.\n\nA number of defense mechanisms against evasion, poisoning, and privacy attacks have been proposed in the field of adversarial machine learning, including:\n\n\nSome software libraries are available, mainly for testing purposes and research.\n\n"}
{"id": "14128639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14128639", "title": "Ahmad I ibn Mustafa", "text": "Ahmad I ibn Mustafa\n\nAhmed I (), born 2 December 1805 in Tunis died May 1855 at La Goulette, was the tenth Husainid Bey of Tunis, ruling from 1837 until his death. He was responsible for the abolition of slavery in Tunisia in 1846.\n\nHe succeeded his father Mustafa Bey on 10 October 1837. He had grand ambitions - to expand his army and create a modern navy; to build a new royal residence, a mint and modern institutions of education but neither he nor his brother-in-law the young Mustapha Khaznadar who served as his finance minister, had a clear idea of what such initiatives would cost. As a result, many of his projects became expensive failures which damaged the financial health of the country.\n\nSoon after his accession, Ahmad Bey received the traditional Firman from the Sublime Porte which formally invested him with authority to rule from the Ottoman Empire and furnished him with the insignia of office. The Ottoman envoy, Osman Bey, arrived in la Goulette on 15 May 1838 on board a frigate. The following day, Osman Bey made his official entry into Tunis on horseback, preceded by all the ministers of the beylical cabinet who went before him until he was two leagues from the city. Before him were carried the sword of honour and the caftan to be presented to the Bey. He was escorted by spahis and followed by a large contingent of regular troops an Arab cavalry. Three days after his official entry into the city, the envoy presented himself at the Bardo Palace to formally invest Ahmad Bey with his insignia of office and present gifts. Named as a Divisional General in the Ottoman army in May 1838, he was later promoted by the Sultan to the rank of Marshal on 14 August 1840. This was the first time that a Bey of Tunis had held a rank higher than Divisional General. The purpose of these honours was to emphasise the supremacy of the Ottoman Empire over the Regency of Tunis.\n\nUnder a treaty with France signed in 1830 by Hussein Bey, a piece of land in Carthage had been ceded to allow the erection of a monument to Louis IX of France who had died there during the Eighth Crusade. On 25 August 1840 the first stone was laid in the cathedral of Carthage. Ahmad Bey also permitted the Christian community of Tunis, consisting mainly of European merchants, to enlarge their small church near the Bab el Bhar.\n\nIn June and July 1846 the Duke of Montpensier, son of King Louis Philippe of France visited Tunis and Carthage. He was received with great solemnity by Ahmad Bey. During this visit the idea of a reciprocal visit of the Bey to France was proposed. This visit was organised by his advisor Giuseppe Raffo (whose sister was married to his uncle) and the French consul, and took place in November 1846. King Louis Philippe received Ahmad Bey with great ceremony. This visit confirmed the Bey's wish to modernise his country by learning from Europe. An 1897 article in \"La Revue tunisienne\" described it effect on his plans:\n\n\"'Among all the marvels he had occasion to admire, he was most particularly struck by the ingenious applications of industrial engineering; he conceived at that time the noble project of pulling native industry out of the routine into which it had fallen by encouraging it to embark on the road to progress and of endowing his country with modern industry, equipped with the means of production, of which the economic benefits had been revealed to him.' \nThe Bey's visit to France, and the fact that he had been received with the honours customarily reserved for an independent sovereign, displeased the Ottoman authorities as the Bey was, at least theoretically, an Ottoman vassal.\n\nAccording to the Tunisian historian Mohamed Bayram V, the Bey's reforms were focused on state structures, the army and education. He established a modern structure of government and gave his high officials the title of 'minister'. His senior ministers were his Grand Vizier Mustafa Sahib at-Taba'a, Mustapha Khaznadar, Minister of Finance and of the Interior, Mustafa Agha as Minister of War, Mahmoud Khodja as Minister of the Navy and Giuseppe Raffo as Foreign Minister. At certain times Mahmoud Ben Ayed also served as Trade Minister, Kuchuk Muhammad in the honorific post of Minister in charge of the securityome of Ahmad Bey’s reforms wasted money, such as the large frigate built at La Goulette that could not make it through the channel to the sea. of Tunis and Mohamed Lasram IV as Minister of the Pen. The historian Ibn Abi Dhiaf was the Bey's private secretary.\n\nAmong Ahmad Bey's successes may be counted the abolition of slavery in January 1846. To this may be added the formation of the military academy at Bardo in March 1840, which supported the development of the beylical army, numbering as many as 5,000 men in seven infantry regiments, four artillery regiments and two cavalry regiments.\nAt the same time, the Bey reformed religious education at the Al-Zaytuna Mosque, bringing in thirty professors, of whom fifteen were for the Maliki school of jurisprudence which prevailed in Tunisia, and fifteen followed the Hanafi school followed by the ruling families of the country who were of Turkish origin. All were appointed and salaried by the state and placed under the control of a sharia council dominated by the two leading jurists of their time, Sidi Brahim Riahi, the Maliki Grand Mufti and Mohamed Bayram IV, who was both the Hanafi Grand Mufti and the first in Tunisia to bear the title Shaykh al-Islam. The Bey also made a donation of a large number of Arabic manuscripts to the Zaytuna mosque.\n\nState enterprise was also strongly enouraged. The businessman Mahmud Ben Ayed was charged with building a small industrial complex to meet the needs of the new army. In 1840 a textile works was established at Tebourba, powered first by water-wheel and later by steam engines imported from Great Britain. Tanneries were also built, as was a cannon foundry at Bardo, a gunpowder works and a flour-mill at Djedeida.\n\nSupporting these innovations were new government offices - the \"rabta\" managing state grain silos; the \"ghaba\" in charge of olive oil forests; and the \"ghorfa\", the central state procurement office, as well as a mint at Bardo.\n\nNot all of his initiatives were successful however - he had a new frigate built at La Goulette which was so large it could not fit in the channel down to the sea.\n\nAhmad Bey's modernisations had little impact on the economy or the life of Tunis,or on the institutions of the Regency. He did not appear to be much interested in urban developments or the improvement of Tunis, other than rebuilding the Bab al Jazira mosque, and restoring the Bab el Bhar in 1847 and 1848. More of his attention went on the royal palaces at the Bardo, La Goulette and Mohamedia. The latter, known as the Salehia after the name of the local saint Sidi Saleh, was rarely used by the Bey despite the enormous cost of its construction. Although he had a great desire for reform, particularly in economic and military matters, his initiatives ultimately had little success because of a poor understanding of their financial consequences and the lack of expertise in his government.\n\nAlthough most other rulers of his dynasty in the 18th and 19th centuries maintained a harem as well as having official wives, Ahmad Bey had only one wife and one concubine. Before the abolition of slavery, he habitually offered to his courtiers any odalisques given to him as presents. He had two children who died in infancy, so he died without direct issue. and was succeeded by his cousin Muhammad Bey.\n\nHe died in 1855 in the summer palace of Sharfiya, at La Goulette, and was buried in the Tourbet el Bey in the Medina of Tunis.\n"}
{"id": "30745596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30745596", "title": "Bits of Freedom", "text": "Bits of Freedom\n\nBits Of Freedom is an independent Dutch digital rights foundation, which focuses on privacy and communications freedom in the digital age. The foundation protects the right for privacy and the right to communications freedom in the Netherlands. Bits of Freedom started in 2000 and had a break between 2006 and August 2009 due to lack of funding. On August 14, 2009, Bits of Freedom continued its activities with funding provided by the Internet4All Foundation.\n\nBits of Freedom organizes the Dutch version of the Big Brother Awards, initiated European cooperation between digital rights watch foundations in European Digital Rights (EDRI) and collects information about data leaks in the Netherlands to raise awareness of the potential dangers of increasing collection of data.\n\nThe Multatuli Project, subtitled \"ISP Notice and take down\", was the title of an experiment done by members of the Bits of Freedom group in the summer of 2004. The group uploaded excerpts from Multatuli to websites hosted at 10 different Dutch ISPs, content which has been in the public domain since 1957. They then sent a complaint about the content from a Hotmail account posing as a legal advisor to the 10 ISPs; seven of them complied and removed the site, one within just three hours, without investigating the legality of the matter, or asking questions about the dubious background of the requester.\n\nTo raise awareness of privacy-related issues, Bits of Freedom holds annual Big Brother Awards. This prize is awarded to businesses, governmental institutions and persons who have harmed privacy or increased civilian surveillance in the past year. The award is named after the character \"Big Brother\" from George Orwell's \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\".\n\nThe winners of the Big Brother Awards 2011 were the National Police Services Agency (in the category \"governmental institutions\") for the use of spyware and hacking of hacking victims, minister Edith Schippers (in the category \"people\") for forcing a restart of the Dutch Electronic health record, in spite of it not being supported by the Netherlands Senate, Facebook (in the category \"business\") for going to the stock market without safeguards for user privacy and finally minister Fred Teeven (in the category \"popular vote\") for further harming privacy legislation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "387507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=387507", "title": "California water wars", "text": "California water wars\n\nThe California water wars were a series of political conflicts between the city of Los Angeles and farmers and ranchers in the Owens Valley of Eastern California over water rights.\n\nAs Los Angeles expanded during the late 19th century, it began outgrowing its water supply. Fred Eaton, mayor of Los Angeles, realized that water could flow from Owens Valley to Los Angeles via an aqueduct. The aqueduct construction was overseen by William Mulholland and was finished in 1913. The water rights were acquired through political fighting and, as described by one author, \"chicanery, subterfuge ... and a strategy of lies\".\n\nSince 1913, the Owens River had been diverted to Los Angeles, causing the ruin of the valley's economy. By the 1920s, so much water was diverted from the Owens Valley that agriculture became difficult. This led to the farmers trying to destroy the aqueduct in 1924. Los Angeles prevailed and kept the water flowing. By 1926, Owens Lake at the bottom of Owens Valley was completely dry due to water diversion.\n\nThe water needs of Los Angeles kept growing. In 1941, Los Angeles diverted water that previously fed Mono Lake, north of Owens Valley, into the aqueduct. Mono Lake's ecosystem for migrating birds was threatened by dropping water levels. Between 1979 and 1994, David Gaines and the Mono Lake Committee engaged in litigation with Los Angeles. The litigation forced Los Angeles to stop diverting water from around Mono Lake, which has started to rise back to a level that can support its ecosystem.\n\nThe Paiute natives were the original inhabitants living in the valley, and used irrigation to grow crops.\n\nIn 1833, Joseph Reddeford Walker led the first known expedition into the central California area that would later be called the Owens Valley. Walker saw that the valley’s soil conditions were inferior to those on the other side of the Sierra Nevada range, and that runoff from the mountains was absorbed into the arid desert ground. After the United States gained control of California in 1848, the first public land survey conducted by A.W. von Schmidt from 1855 to 1856 was an initial step in securing government control of the valley. Von Schmidt reported that the valley’s soil was not good for agriculture except for the land near streams, and incorrectly stated that the \"Owens Valley [was] worthless to the White Man.\"\n\nIn 1861, Samuel Bishop and other ranchers started to raise cattle on the luxuriant grasses that grew in the Owens Valley. The ranchers came into conflict with the Paiutes over land and water use, and most of the Paiutes were driven away from the valley by the U.S. Army in 1863 during the Owens Valley Indian War.\n\nMany settlers came to the area for the promise of riches from mining. The availability of water from the Owens River made farming and raising livestock attractive. The Homestead Act of 1862 gave pioneers five years to claim and take title of their land for a small filing fee and a charge of $1.25 per acre. The Homestead Act limited the land an individual could own to in order to create small farms.\nThe amount of public land settled by the late 1870s and early 1880s was still relatively small. The Desert Land Act of 1877 allowed individuals to acquire more area, up to , in hopes of drawing more settlers by giving them enough land to make their settlement and land expenses worthwhile, but \"included no residency requirements\". By 1866, rapid acquisition of land had begun and by the mid-1890s, most of the land in the Owens Valley had been claimed. The large number of claims made by land speculators hindered the region’s development because speculators would not participate in developing canals and ditches.\n\nBefore the Los Angeles Aqueduct, most of the of canals and ditches that constituted the irrigation system in the Owens Valley were in the north, while the southern region of the valley was mostly inhabited by people raising livestock. The irrigation systems created by the ditch companies did not have adequate drainage and as a result oversaturated the soil to the point where crops could not be raised. The irrigation systems also significantly lowered the water level in the Owens Lake, a process that was intensified later by the diversion of water through the Los Angeles Aqueduct. At the start of the 20th century, the northern part of the Owens Valley turned to raising fruit, poultry and dairy.\n\nFrederick Eaton and William Mulholland were two of the more visible principals in the California water wars. They were friends, having worked together in the private Los Angeles Water Company in the 1880s. In 1886, Eaton became City Engineer and Mulholland became superintendent of the Water Company. In 1898, Eaton was elected mayor of Los Angeles, and was instrumental in converting the Water Company to city control in 1902. When the company became the Los Angeles Water Department, Mulholland continued to be superintendent, due to his vast knowledge of the water system.\n\nEaton and Mulholland had a vision of a Los Angeles that would become far larger than the Los Angeles of the start of the 20th century. The limiting factor of Los Angeles's growth was water supply. \"If you don't get the water, you won't need it,\" Mulholland famously remarked. \nEaton and Mulholland realized that the Owens Valley had a large amount of runoff from the Sierra Nevada, and a gravity-fed aqueduct could deliver the Owens water to Los Angeles.\n\nAt the start of the 20th century, the United States Bureau of Reclamation, at the time known as the United States Reclamation Service, was planning on building an irrigation system to help the farmers of the Owens Valley, which would block Los Angeles from diverting the water.\n\nFrom 1902 to 1905, Eaton and Mulholland used underhanded methods to obtain water rights and block the Bureau of Reclamation. The regional engineer of the Bureau, Joseph Lippincott, was a close associate of Eaton, Eaton was a nominal agent for the Bureau through Lippincott, so Eaton had access to inside information about water rights and could recommend actions to the Bureau that would be beneficial to Los Angeles. In return, while Lippincott was employed by the Bureau, he also served as a paid private consultant to Eaton, advising Los Angeles on how to best obtain water rights.\n\nTo help acquire water rights in 1905, Eaton made high offers to purchase land in Owens Valley. Eaton's eagerness aroused suspicion in a few local Inyo County people. Eaton bought land as a private citizen, hoping to sell it back to Los Angeles at a tidy profit. Eaton claimed in an interview with the \"Los Angeles Express\" in 1905 that he turned over all his water rights to the City of Los Angeles without being paid for them, \"except that I retained the cattle which I had been compelled to take in making the deals ... and mountain pasture land of no value except for grazing purposes\". Eaton moved to the Owens Valley to become a cattle rancher on the land he purchased. Eaton always denied that he acted in a deceptive manner.\n\nMullholland misled Los Angeles public opinion by dramatically understating the amount of water locally available for Los Angeles's growth. Mullholland also misled residents of the Owens Valley: he indicated that Los Angeles would only use unused flows in the Owens Valley, while planning on using the full water rights to fill the aquifer of the San Fernando Valley.\n\nBy 1907, Eaton was busy acquiring key water rights and traveling to Washington to meet with advisers of Theodore Roosevelt to convince them that the water of the Owens River would do more good flowing from faucets in Los Angeles than it would if used on Owens Valley fields and orchards.\n\nThe dispute over the Owens River water became a political dispute in Washington. Los Angeles needed rights of way across federal land to build the aqueduct. California Senator Frank Flint sponsored a bill to grant the rights of way, but Congressman Sylvester Smith of Inyo County opposed the bill. Smith argued that irrigating Southern California was not more valuable than irrigating Owens Valley. While a compromise was being negotiated, Flint appealed to President Roosevelt. Roosevelt met with Flint, Secretary of the Interior Ethan A. Hitchcock, Bureau of Forests Commissioner Gifford Pinchot, and Director of the Geological Survey Charles D. Walcott. In this meeting, Roosevelt decided in favor of Los Angeles.\n\nMany argue that Los Angeles paid an unfairly low price to the farmers of Owens Valley for their land. Gary Libecap of the University of California, Santa Barbara observed that the price that Los Angeles was willing to pay to other water sources per acre-foot of water was far higher than what the farmers received. Farmers who resisted the pressure from Los Angeles until 1930 received the highest price for their land; most farmers sold their land from 1905 to 1925, and received less than Los Angeles was actually willing to pay. However, the sale of their land brought the farmers substantially more income than if they had kept the land for farming and ranching. None of the sales were made under threat of eminent domain.\n\nThe aqueduct was sold to the citizens of Los Angeles as vital to the growth of the city. Unknown to the public, the initial water would be used to irrigate the San Fernando Valley to the north, which was not at the time a part of the city. From a hydrological point of view, the San Fernando Valley was ideal: its aquifer could serve as free water storage without evaporation. One obstacle to the irrigation was the Los Angeles City Charter, which prohibited the sale, lease, or other use of the city's water without a two-thirds approval by the voters. This charter limitation would be avoided through the annexation of a large portion of the San Fernando Valley to the city. The annexation would also raise the debt limit of Los Angeles, which allowed the financing of the aqueduct.\n\nThe San Fernando land syndicate were a group of wealthy investors who bought up large tracts of land in the San Fernando Valley with secret inside information from Eaton. The syndicate included friends of Eaton, such as Harrison Gray Otis and Henry E. Huntington. This syndicate made substantial efforts to support passage of the bond issue that funded the aqueduct. These efforts are reported to have included the dumping of water from Los Angeles reservoirs into the sewers (thereby creating a false drought) and by publishing scare articles in the \"Los Angeles Times\", which Otis published. Remi Nadeau, a historian and author, disputed that water was dumped from reservoirs, because the sewer system may not have been connected to the reservoirs. The syndicate did unify the business community behind the aqueduct, and its purchases were public by the time the vote on the aqueduct was taken.\n\nFrom 1907 through 1913, Mulholland directed the building of the aqueduct. The Los Angeles Aqueduct, inaugurated in November 1913, required more than 2,000 workers and the digging of 164 tunnels. Mulholland's granddaughter has stated that the complexity of the project was comparable to the building of the Panama Canal. Water from the Owens River reached a reservoir in the San Fernando Valley on November 5, 1913. At a ceremony that day, Mulholland spoke his famous words about this engineering feat: \"There it is. Take it.\"\n\nAfter the aqueduct was completed in 1913, the San Fernando investors demanded so much water from the Owens Valley that it started to transform from \"The Switzerland of California\" into a desert. Mulholland was blocked from obtaining additional water from the Colorado River, so decided to take all available water from the Owens Valley.\n\nIn 1923, farmers and ranchers formed an irrigation cooperative headed by Wilfred and Mark Watterson, owners of the Inyo County Bank. By exploiting personal bitterness of some of the farmers, Los Angeles managed to acquire some of the key water rights of the cooperative. After these water rights were secured, inflows to Owens Lake were heavily diverted, which caused the lake to dry up by 1924.\n\nBy 1924, farmers and ranchers rebelled. A series of provocations by Mulholland were, in turn, followed by corresponding threats from local farmers, and the destruction of Los Angeles property. Finally, a group of armed ranchers seized the Alabama Gates and dynamited part of the system, letting water return to the Owens River. \nIn August 1927, when the conflict was at its height, the Inyo County bank collapsed, which massively undermined valley resistance. An audit revealed that there were shortages in both cash in the vault and amounts shown on the books. The Watterson brothers were indicted for embezzlement, then tried and convicted on thirty-six counts. Since all local business had been transacted through their bank, the closure left merchants and customers with little more than the small amount of money they had on hand. The brothers claimed that the fraud was done for the good of the Owens Valley against Los Angeles, and this excuse was generally believed to be true in Inyo County. The collapse of the bank wiped out the lifetime savings of many people, including payments gained from the sale of homes and ranches to Los Angeles.\n\nIn the face of the collapse of resistance and of the Owens Valley economy, the attacks on the aqueduct ceased. The City of Los Angeles sponsored a series of repair and maintenance programs for aqueduct facilities, that stimulated some local employment and the Los Angeles water employees were paid a month in advance to bring some relief. But it was impossible to prevent many businesses from closing their doors.\n\nThe City of Los Angeles continued to purchase private land holdings and their water rights to meet the increasing demands. By 1928, Los Angeles owned 90 percent of the water in Owens Valley and agriculture interests in the region were effectively dead.\n\nIn 1970, LADWP completed a second aqueduct. In 1972, the agency began to divert more surface water and pumped groundwater at the rate of several hundred thousand acre-feet a year (several cubic metres per second). Owens Valley springs and seeps dried and disappeared, and groundwater-dependent vegetation began to die.\n\nBecause LADWP had never completed an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) addressing the impacts of groundwater pumping, Inyo County sued Los Angeles under the terms of the California Environmental Quality Act. Los Angeles did not stop pumping groundwater, but submitted a short EIR in 1976 and a second one in 1979, both of which were rejected as inadequate by the courts.\n\nIn 1991, Inyo County and the city of Los Angeles signed the Inyo-Los Angeles Long Term Water Agreement, which required that groundwater pumping be managed to avoid significant impacts while providing a reliable water supply for Los Angeles. In 1997, Inyo County, Los Angeles, the Owens Valley Committee, the Sierra Club, and other concerned parties signed a Memorandum of Understanding that specified terms by which the lower Owens River would be re-watered by June 2003 as partial mitigation for damage to the Owens Valley.\n\nIn spite of the terms of the Long Term Water Agreement, studies by the Inyo County Water Department from 2003 onward showed that impacts to the valley's groundwater-dependent vegetation, such as alkali meadows, continue. Likewise, Los Angeles did not re-water the lower Owens River by the June 2003 deadline. In December, 2003, LADWP settled a lawsuit brought by California Attorney General Bill Lockyer, the Owens Valley Committee, and the Sierra Club. Under the terms of the settlement, deadlines for the Lower Owens River Project were revised and LADWP was to return water to the lower Owens River by 2005. This deadline was missed, but on December 6, 2006, a ceremony was held at the same site where William Mulholland had ceremonially opened the aqueduct which had closed the flow through the Owens River, to restart it down the river. David Nahai, president of the L.A. Water and Power Board, countered Mulholland's words from 1913 and said, \"There it is ... take it back.\"\n\nNevertheless, groundwater pumping continues at a higher rate than the rate at which water recharges the aquifer, resulting in a long-term trend of desertification in the Owens Valley.\n\nBy the 1930s, the water requirements for Los Angeles continued to increase. LADWP started buying water rights in the Mono Basin (the next basin to the north of the Owens Valley). An extension to the aqueduct was built, which included such engineering feats as tunneling through the Mono Craters (an active volcanic field). By 1941, the extension was finished, and water in various creeks (such as Rush Creek) were diverted into the aqueduct. To satisfy California water law, LADWP set up a fish hatchery on Hot Creek, near Mammoth Lakes, California.\nThe diverted creeks had previously fed Mono Lake, an inland body of water with no outlet. Mono Lake served as a vital ecosystem link, where gulls and migratory birds would nest. Because the creeks were diverted, the water level in Mono Lake started to fall, exposing tufa formations. The water became more saline and alkaline, threatening the brine shrimp that lived in the lake. Increases in salinity decreased adult size, growth rates, and brood sizes, and female mortality during their reproductive cycle. Changing levels in salinity as a result of water diversion put this species at risk, as well as the birds that nested on two islands (Negit Island and Paoha Island) in the lake. Falling water levels started making a land bridge to Negit Island, which allowed predators to feed on bird eggs for the first time.\n\nIn 1974, David Gaines started to study the biology of Mono Lake. In 1975, while at Stanford, he started to get others interested in the ecosystem of Mono Lake. This led to a 1977 report on the ecosystem of Mono Lake that highlighted dangers caused by the water diversion. In 1978, the Mono Lake Committee was formed to protect Mono Lake. The Committee (and the National Audubon Society) sued LADWP in 1979, arguing that the diversions violated the public trust doctrine, which states that navigable bodies of water must be managed for the benefit of all people. The litigation reached the California Supreme Court by 1983, which ruled in favor of the Committee. Further litigation was initiated in 1984, which claimed that LADWP did not comply with the state fishery protection laws.\n\nEventually, all of the litigation was adjudicated in 1994, by the California State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB). The SWRCB hearings lasted for 44 days and were conducted by Board Vice-Chair Marc Del Piero acting as the sole Hearing Officer. In that ruling (SWRCB Decision 1631), the SWRCB established significant public trust protection and eco-system restoration standards, and LADWP was required to release water into Mono Lake to raise the lake level above the then-current level of below the 1941 level. As of 2011, the water level in Mono Lake has risen only of the required . Los Angeles made up for the lost water through state-funded conservation and recycling projects.\n\nIn February 2014, after three consecutive years of below-normal rainfall, California faced its most severe drought emergency in decades with fish populations in the Sacramento–San Joaquin River Delta in unprecedented crisis due to the decades of massive water exports from Northern California to south of the Delta via state and federal water projects. “Fisheries... people and economic prosperity of northern California are at grave risk\", per Bill Jennings, Director of the California Sportfishing Protection Alliance Half a million acres of Central Valley farmland supposedly was in danger of going fallow due to drought. On 5 February 2014 the House passed a bill to increase flows from the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta to the Central Valley, the Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Emergency Water Delivery Act (H.R. 3964; 113th Congress). This would suspend the very recent efforts to restore the San Joaquin River since 2009, won after 18 years of litigation, with increased releases from the Friant Dam east of Fresno. Democratic Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer proposed emergency drought legislation of $300 million aid, and to speed up environmental reviews of water projects, so state and federal officials have \"operational flexibility\" to move water south, from the delta to San Joaquin Valley farms.\n\nOn February 14, 2014, President Barack Obama visited near Fresno and announced $170 million worth of initiatives, with $100 million for ranchers facing livestock losses and $60 million to help food banks. Obama joked about the lengthy and incendiary history of water politics in California, saying, \"I'm not going to wade into this. I want to get out alive on Valentine's Day.\"\n\nThe California water wars were among the subjects discussed in \"Cadillac Desert\", a 1984 nonfiction book by Marc Reisner about land development and water policy in the western United States. The book was made into a four-part documentary of the same name in 1997.\n\nThe 1974 film \"Chinatown\" was inspired by the California water wars and features a fictionalized version of the conflict as a central plot element.\n\n"}
{"id": "48324804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48324804", "title": "Charles O'Neill Conroy", "text": "Charles O'Neill Conroy\n\nCharles O'Neill Conroy was a twentieth century Canadian solicitor of Irish descent.\n\nHe was born in Dublin in 1871 to James Gervé Conroy, a lineal male-line descendant of Fearfeasa O'Maolchonaire of the Four Masters, and Elizabeth O'Neill, who was the only daughter of Charles Henry (Cáthal Ainrí) Ó Néill, The O'Neill of Clannaboy. He was brought to St. John's, Newfoundland by his parents at 18 months, where his father became a teacher, lawyer, judge, founder of the Irish Catholic newspaper the \"St. John's Advertiser\", two term MHA for Ferryland and the Avalon Peninsula, and advocate of formal political ties between Ireland and Newfoundland.\n\nHe was educated in St. John's and in London, where he rented a room from Mary, the widow of Dr. Weathers, who was the brother of William Weathers, Bishop of Amyclaw. After returning to Newfoundland, he proposed to Mary's daughter, also Mary, and she and her mother moved to St. John's. He educated William J. Higgins, who would later be his law partner, Speaker of the Newfoundland House of Assembly and a judge.\n\nConroy worked as a solicitor for the City of Saint John's, and while in that role he launched a writ against the government of Newfoundland to secure funding for the city during the Great Depression. He was Grand Knight of the Knights of Colombus and launched a successful but non-punitive libel lawsuit against a citizen who had been misled by the \"orange\" element, and was circulating lies regarding the nature of the organisation and a supposed oath, so that future repetitions of the malicious rumours could be prosecuted. He was also Lieutenant-Colonel and commanding officer of the Newfoundland Catholic Cadet Corps. Several pictures survive of him in the Newfoundland archives. He was an avid photographer and salmon fisherman himself, and many of his photographs survive in the Nefwoundland Quarterly Journal, particularly of the salmon rivers of Newfoundland. There is a pool named Chas. O'Neill Conroy's Pool after him in the Salmonier River.\n\nAn only son, he lived at Raheen at 50 Bonaventure Avenue, and left a large family, with several sons and grandsons serving the executive of the Benevolent Irish Society of St. John's.\n\nThe eldest, James O'Neill Conroy, married Elizabeth Anne McGrath, daughter of James Francis McGrath, whose sons included James M. McGrath and John William McGrath, Theodore Roosevelt's Secretary who was with him at the assassination attempt on him. Jim and Betty had a boy Padre Carlos O'Neill Conroy, who was a Priest in Monsefú and for a time made mayor before he died tragically in 1966 in an auto accident, and a girl Sister Margaret O'Neill Conroy who still teaches in Uganda\n\nO'Neill Conroy Family Tree - descendants of Elizabeth O'Neill\n\nFamily of Charles O'Neill Conroy. Ted (numerous) and Hugh have surviving male issue.\n"}
{"id": "3907276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3907276", "title": "Clarendon (typeface)", "text": "Clarendon (typeface)\n\nClarendon is the name of a slab-serif typeface that was released in 1845 by Thorowgood and Co. (or Thorowgood and Besley) of London, a letter foundry often known as the Fann Street Foundry. The original Clarendon design is credited to Robert Besley, a partner in the foundry, and was originally engraved by punchcutter Benjamin Fox, who may also have contributed to its design. Many copies, adaptations and revivals have been released, becoming almost an entire genre of type design.\n\nClarendons have a bold, solid structure, similar in letter structure to the \"modern\" serif typefaces popular in the nineteenth century for body text (for instance showing an 'R' with a curled leg and ball terminals on the 'a' and 'c'), but bolder and with less contrast in stroke weight. Clarendon designs generally have a structure with bracketed serifs, which become larger as they reach the main stroke of the letter. Mitja Miklavčič describes the basic features of Clarendon designs (and ones labelled Ionic, often quite similar) as: \"plain and sturdy nature, strong bracketed serifs, vertical stress, large x-height, short ascenders and descenders, typeface with little contrast\" and supports Nicolete Gray's description of them as a \"cross between the roman [general-purpose body text type] and slab serif model\". Gray notes that nineteenth-century Ionic and Clarendon faces have \"a definite differentiation between the thick and the thin strokes\", unlike some other more geometric slab-serifs.\n\nSlab serif typefaces had become popular in British lettering and printing over the previous thirty-five years before the original Clarendon’s release, both for display use on signage, architectural lettering and posters and for emphasis within a block of text. The Clarendon design was immediately very popular and was rapidly copied by other foundries to become in effect an entire genre of type design. Clarendon fonts proved extremely popular in many parts of the world, in particular for display applications such as posters printed with wood type. They are therefore commonly associated with wanted posters and the American Old West. A revival of interest took place in the post-war period: Jonathan Hoefler comments that \"some of the best and most significant Clarendons are twentieth century designs\" and highlights the Haas and Stempel foundry's bold, wide Clarendon display face as \"a classic that for many people is the epitome of the Clarendon style.\"\n\nSlab serif lettering and typefaces originated in Britain in the early nineteenth century, at a time of rapid development of new, bolder typefaces for posters and commercial printing. Probably the first slab-serif to appear in print was created by the foundry of Vincent Figgins, and given the name “antique”. Others rapidly appeared, using names such as “Ionic” and “Egyptian”, which had already also used as a name for sans-serifs. (At the time typeface names were often adjectives, often with little purpose to their name, although they may have been in this case reference to the “blocky”, geometric structure of ancient architecture. There was limited separation between the name of typefaces and genres; if a font proved popular it would often be pirated and reissued by other foundries under the same name.)\n\nCompared to Figgins' \"antique\", the Clarendon design uses somewhat less emphatic serifs, which are bracketed rather than solid blocks, that widen as they reach the main stroke of the letter. Besley's design was not the first font with this style by at least three years, as typefaces labelled \"Ionic\" had already appeared in this style (other typefaces would copy this name), but the Clarendon design was particularly popular and its name rapidly copied. Historian James Mosley suggests that an inspiration for these designs may have been the style of handlettered capitals used by copper-plate engravers.\nBesley's original Clarendon design was quite compressed, unlike most later 'Clarendons' intended for display setting, which are often quite wide. One of the original target markets for Besley's Clarendon design was to act as a bold face within body text, providing a stronger emphasis than the italic type that had been used for centuries for this purpose, and in this it matches the quite condensed body text faces of the period. (The modern system of issuing typefaces in families with a companion bold of matched design did not develop until the twentieth century.) Slab serifs had already begun to be used for bold type by the 1840s, but they were often quite lumpy in design and quite poorly matched to the body text face they were intended to complement. Mosley has written that \"the Clarendon type of the Besley foundry is indeed the first type actually designed as a ‘related bold’ – that is, made to harmonize in design and align with the roman types [regular weight typefaces] it was set with…Before the launch of Clarendon type printers picked out words in slab-serifs or any other heavy type.\" However, because of the Clarendon design's strong reputation for quality, it was rapidly copied. Historian Nicolete Gray considered the earlier \"Ionic\" face from the Caslon Foundry in the same style more effective than Besley's: \"[Besley's] became the normal, but it was certainly not the first…in 1842 Caslon have an upper and in 1843 a lower case with the characteristics fully developed, but of a normal width…Besley's [more compressed] Clarendon is much less pleasing, it has lost emphasis and confidence, and gains only in plausibility.\"\nBesley registered the typeface in 1845 under Britain's Ornamental Designs Act of 1842. The patent expired three years later, and other foundries quickly copied it.<ref name=\"Three chapters in the development of clarendon/ionic typefaces\"></ref> Besley was nonetheless successful in business, and became the Lord Mayor of London in 1869. Theodore De Vinne, a printer who wrote several influential textbooks on typography in the late nineteenth century, wrote that its name was a reference to the Clarendon Press in Oxford (now part of Oxford University Press), who he claimed immediately used it for dictionaries, although later authors have expressed doubt about this.\n\nWith its growing popularity for display use, new versions often changed these proportions. By around 1874, the Fann Street Foundry (now Reed and Fox) could offer in its specimen book Clarendon designs that were condensed, \"thin-faced\" (light weight), extended, \"distended\" (extra-wide) and shaded. Revivals continued in the twentieth century, particularly in the 1950s.\nThe label \"Ionic\", originally also used for display faces, has become associated with typefaces with some Clarendon/slab-serif features but intended for body text, following the success of several faces with this name from first Miller & Richard (intended to be slightly bolder than contemporary expectations for body text proportions) and then Linotype (its 1922 release Ionic No. 5, extremely successful in newspaper printing). Millington notes that \"Ionic became a distinct design in its own right\" while Hoefler comments that it is now \"chiefly associated with bracketed faces of the Century model\". A decline of interest in Clarendons for display use did, however, take place in the early twentieth century: by 1923, American Type Founders, which specialised in creating demand for new designs of display face, could argue \"Who remembers the Clarendons[?]\" in its specimen book, and did not show them (aside from some numerals) in its 1,148 pages. In addition, the market of slab serifs was disrupted by the arrival of new \"geometric\" slab-serifs inspired by the sans-serifs of the period, such as Beton and Memphis. However, a revival of interest did appear after the war both in America and Europe.\n\nA variety of Clarendon revivals have been made since the original design, often adapting the design to different widths and weights. The original Clarendon design, a quite condensed design, did not feature an italic, and many early Clarendon designs, such as wood type headline faces, have capitals only with no lower-case letters, leaving many options for individual adaptation. An italic is particularly important in any design intended to be used for extended text, and so designs have variously attempted to create an italic or offered obliques instead, a less conventional option for serif typefaces in which the characters are simply slanted.\n\nThe original Clarendon became the property of Stephenson Blake in 1906, who marketed a release named Consort, cutting some additional weights (a bold and italics) in the 1950s. The original materials were transferred to the Type Museum collection when Stephenson Blake left the printing business in 1996. Designs for wood type copying Clarendon were made from the mid-1840s onwards.\n\nMost hot metal typesetting companies offered some kind of slab serif; Linotype offered it duplexed to a roman type so that it could be easily switched in for emphasis. The typeface was reworked by Monotype, with a redesigned release as \"New Clarendon\" in 1960. Hermann Eidenbenz cut a version in the early 1950s issued by Haas and Stempel, and later Linotype. Freeman Craw drew the \"Craw Clarendon\" family, a once popular American version, released by American Type Founders, in 1955, with light, bold and condensed variants.\nAldo Novarese drew the \"Egizio\" family for Nebiolo, in Turin, Italy. The design included matching italics. David Berlow, of the Font Bureau, developed a revival as \"Belizio\" in 1998. The \"Clarendon Text\" family with italics inspired by Egizio, was released by Patrick Griffin of Canada Type.\n\nVolta, sold as \"Fortune\" in the U.S., was a very modern view of Clarendon, designed by Konrad Friedrich Bauer and Walter Baum for the Bauer Type Foundry in 1955.\n\nRay Larabie, of Typodermic, released the \"Superclarendon\" family in 2007, using obliques instead of italics. A wide, display-oriented design with small caps and Greek and Cyrillic support, it is bundled with OS X.\n\n\"Sentinel\", from Hoefler & Frere-Jones, another typeface family based on Clarendon with italics added, was designed in 2009. Intended to have less eccentric italics suitable for body text use, it has been featured heavily in President Barack Obama's 2012 campaign website advertisements.\n\nIn the late nineteenth century the basic Clarendon face was radically altered by foundries in the United States, resulting in the production of the 'French Clarendon' type style, which had enlarged block serifs at top and bottom. This style is also traditionally associated with wild-west printing; it is commonly seen on circus posters and wanted notices in western movies. However, it was actually used in many parts of the world at the time.\n\nThe concept, now called as reverse-contrast or reverse-stress type, predated Clarendon altogether. It began, possibly around 1821 in Britain, as a parody of the elegant Didone types of the period. It was created by inverting the contrast of these designs, making the thin strokes thick and the thick strokes thin. The result was a slab serif design because of the serifs becoming thick. (In the 19th century, these designs were called \"Italian\" because of their exotic appearance, but this name is problematic since the designs have no clear connection with Italy; they do slightly resemble \"capitalis rustica\" Roman writing, but this may be a coincidence. For similar reasons they were also called \"Egyptian\" or \"Reversed Egyptian\", Egyptian being an equally arbitrary name for slab serifs of the period.)\n\nIntended as attention-grabbing novelty display designs rather than as serious choices for body text, within four years of their introduction the printer Thomas Curson Hansard had described them as 'typographic monstrosities'. Derivatives of this style persisted, and the concept of very thick serifs ultimately merged with the Clarendon genre of type. The advantage of French-Clarendon type was that it allowed very large, eye-catching serifs while the letters remained narrow, suiting the desire of poster-makers for condensed but very bold type. Fine printers were less impressed by it: DeVinne commented in 1902 that \"To be hated, it needs but to be seen.\"\n\nBecause of their quirky, unusual design, lighter and hand-drawn versions of the style were popular for uses such as film posters in the 1950s and 60s. A variety of adaptations have been made of the style, Robert Harling's Playbill and more recently Adrian Frutiger's Westside, URW++'s Zirkus and Bitstream's P. T. Barnum.\n\nA radically different approach has been that of Trilby by David Jonathan Ross, who has written on the history of the genre. Released by Font Bureau, it is a modernisation reminiscent of Clarendon revivals from the 1950s. It attempts to adapt the style to use in a much wider range of settings, going so far as to be usable for body text.\n\nThe following terms have been used for Clarendons and related slab serifs. Common meanings have been added, but they have often not been consistently applied. Many modern writers as a result ignore them and prefer the term slab-serif, providing individual descriptions of the features of specific designs.\n\nCraw Clarendon Bold was used by the United States National Park Service on traffic signs, but has been replaced by NPS Rawlinson Roadway.\n\nA heavy bold Clarendon was used for the cast brass locomotive nameplates of the Great Western Railway. This was however drawn within the Swindon drawing office, not by a type foundry, and this 'Swindon Egyptian' differed in some aspects, most obviously the numerals used for the cabside numberplates.\n\nVersions of Clarendon can also be seen in the logotypes of corporations such as Sony, Pitchfork Media, Three Twins, Wells Fargo, the Spanish newspaper \"El País\", the 1961 Marvel Comics official logo and the Swedish house manufacturer Älvsbyhus.\n\n"}
{"id": "356444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=356444", "title": "Communist Party of Greece", "text": "Communist Party of Greece\n\nThe Communist Party of Greece (; \"Kommounistikó Kómma Elládas\", KKE) is a Marxist–Leninist political party in Greece. \nFounded in 1918 as the Socialist Labour Party of Greece (adopting its current name in November 1924), it is the oldest political party in Greek politics. The party played a significant role in the Greek resistance and its membership peaked in the mid-1940s. It was the instigator of the Greek Civil War, but ended on the losing side and was banned until 1974.\n\nThe party has returned MPs in all elections since then, and took part in a coalition government in 1989 when it got more than 13% of the vote.\n\nThe October Revolution of the Bolsheviks in Russia in 1917 gave impetus for the foundation of communist parties in many countries all over the globe. KKE was founded on 4 November 1918 as the Socialist Labour Party of Greece (Greek: , \"Sosialistikó Ergatikó Kómma Elládas\"; acronym: ΣΕΚΕ, \"SEKE\"). The party was run by a five-member central committee which consisted of Nikos Dimitratos, D. Ligdopoulos, M. Sideris, A. Arvanitis and S. Kokkinos.\n\nThe background of KKE has roots in more than 60 years of small socialist, anarchist and communist groups, mainly in industrialized areas. Following the example of the Paris Commune and the 1892 Chicago workers' movement for the eight-hour working day, these groups had as immediate political goals the unification of Greek workers into trade unions, the implementation of an eight-hour day in Greece and better salaries for workers. Inspired by the Paris Commune and the communist revolutionary efforts in the United States, Germany and Russia at the beginning of the century and the destruction that almost 20 years of wars had brought upon the Greek workers, a unified Social-Communist party was founded in Greece.\n\nAt the Second Congress of the SEKE in April 1920, the party decided to affiliate with Comintern, an international communist organisation founded in Moscow in 1919. It changed its name to the Socialist Labour Party of Greece-Communist (SEKE-K). A new central committee was elected, which included Nikos and Panaghis Dimitratos, Yannis Kordatos, G. Doumas and M. Sideris. At the Third Extraordinary Congress of the SEKE-K in November 1924, the party was renamed the Communist Party of Greece and adopted the principles of Marxism–Leninism. Pandelis Pouliopoulos was elected as general-secretary. Ever since, the party has functioned on the basis of democratic centralism.\n\nKKE strongly opposed Greece's involvement in the Greco-Turkish War of 1919–1922, which it considered an imperialistic scheme to control the market of Asia Minor given the new political situation after the Ottoman Empire's collapse. KKE members propagated this position both on the front—which provoked accusations of treason from the Greek government—as well as in the mainland. KKE collaborated with the Soviet ambassador to persuade Venizelos' administration to withdraw its troops from Asia Minor and to persuade the Soviet Union to exert political pressure on Mustafa Kemal Atatürk to allow autonomy for Greek cities in Asia Minor.\n\nKKE played a prominent role in strikes, anti-war demonstrations, foundation of trade unions and worker associations. KKE and other leftist political forces fostered the creation of labor unions in all sectors, including the General Greek Workers Confederation (ΓΣΕΕ), which shared common goals with KKE.\n\nThese activities met by opposition from the Mid-War governments. In 1929, as minister of Education in the government of Eleftherios Venizelos, Georgios Papandreou passed legislation against organised communist teachers, known as Idionymon. Such legislation was often used to prosecute KKE members and other leftist activists. Under the Idionymon all members of the Communist Party of Greece, being considered dangers to the state, were to be removed from public service or put in exile.\n\nThe first prison camps for left-wing citizens and communists were founded in that era. KKE and its organisations, although small in numbers, continue operating in all Greek major cities, especially industrial areas such as Athens, Piraeus, Patra, Thessaly and Volos, Thessaloniki, Kavala and elsewhere.\n\nKKE collaborated with other newly founded Communist Parties to oppose the rise of the fascist movement in Europe. In 1932, the Comintern decreed that anti-fascist fronts be formed internationally. KKE responded by creating the People's Front, which was the largest Marxist anti-fascist organisation in Greece prior to the dictatorship of Ioannis Metaxas.\n\nThe party was banned in 1936 by the dictatorial 4th of August Regime of Metaxas and brutally persecuted by his security chief, Konstantinos Maniadakis. Many KKE members were imprisoned or exiled on isolated Aegean islands.\n\nKKE members volunteered to fight on the side of the republican government of Spain during the Spanish Civil War of 1936–1939. About 440 Greeks joined the ranks of the International Brigade, many of whom were high-ranking KKE members.\n\nAfter the Balkan Wars of 1912–1913, World War I in 1916–1918 and the disastrous Greco–Turkish War of 1919–1922, there were diplomatic approaches from the superpowers of that era regarding the re-drawing of Greek borders, based on Bulgaria and Turkey–United States relations pressing for more territory to improve trade routes with the British Empire. The ruling parties were simultaneously trying to move parts of Northern Greece (Macedonia and Thrace) to Bulgaria and Turkey; and to win the return of islands in the Aegean and parts of Macedonian territory to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. This policy was reiterated several times throughout the pre-war era.\n\nThe main impetus for their demand was the ethnic and religious minorities then living inside Greek borders in Northern Greece. KKE opposed any geo-strategic game in the area which would use minorities to start a new imperialistic war in the region. At its Third Party Congress in 1924, KKE announced its policy for the self-determination of minorities, pointing out the minorities in Macedonia. Its policy was dictated by each Marxist–Leninist theory, that stated any minorities should be self-determined under a common socialist state and it had its roots in the example of the newly founded Soviet Union.\nIn 1924, KKE expressed the official position of the Third International for \"independent Macedonia and Thrace\". Some members disagreed with this, but it remained the official position of the party and caused expulsions of communists by the Greek state. KKE was seen by many as a party whose policy was \"the detachment of large areas of northern Greece\". According to Richard Clogg, \"this was dictated by Comintern and hurt the popularity of Communism at the time\".\n\nIn 1934, KKE changed its view and expressed its intent to \"fight for the national self-determination, under a People's Republic where all nations will found their self-determination and will build the common state of the workers\".\n\nNikos Zachariadis, General Secretary of the party, officially renounced KKE's policy of secession in 1945. Anti-KKE propaganda up-to-day added on this quote the will to collaborate for this goal with the Bulgarian organizations of the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization and the Thracian Revolutionary Organisation. This is not mentioned on any of KKE official documents. The quote is referenced as KKE's policy for \"giving Greek soil to the northern enemies of the country\", a fact that can not be crossed referenced with any of KKE referenced literature of that era.\n\nDuring the civil war (1946–1949), an article written by Nikos Zachariadis expressed the KKE's strategy after the envisioned victory of the Democratic Army of Greece regarding what was then known as the \"Macedonian Issue\": \"The Macedonian people will acquire an independent, united state with a coequal position within the family of free peoples' republics within the Balkans, within the family of Peoples' Republics to which the Greek people will belong. The Macedonian people are today fighting for this independent united state with a coequal position and is helping the DSE with all its soul\". The policy of self-determination for Macedonia within a People's Republic was reiterated during the 5th KKE Central Committee meeting held in January 1949, which declared that the \"Macedonian people participating in the liberation struggle would find their full national re-establishment as they want giving their blood for this acquisition [...] Macedonian Communists should pay great attentions to foreign chauvinist and counteractive elements that want to break the unity between the Greek and Macedonian people. This will only serve the monarcho-fascists and British imperialism\". These statements can be explained due to the large number of Slavomacedonian fighters (30–50%) amongst the DSE fighters and prompted the government in Athens to begin a campaign against KKE and the party's military wing, the Democratic Army of Greece (DSE), blaming them for secession plans in northern Greece.\n\nIn order for KKE to clear up its position on the \"Macedonian subject\", the 6th Congress of its Central Committee was called a few months later, during which was clearly stated that KKE was fighting for a free Greece and for a common future for Greeks and Macedonians under the same state.\n\nThe issue was ended by Central Committee in 1954 with the withdrawal of the position of self-determination of minorities. In 1988, the General Secretary of KKE, Charilaos Florakis, once again presented KKE's political position on the matter in a speech to the Greek Parliament.\n\nBy 1940, KKE had almost collapsed after Metaxas' dictatorship had imprisoned many of its leadership and members. By October, half of the party's two thousand members were in prison or in exile. The Security Police proved successful in dismantling the party structure; not only had it imprisoned the leadership, but it created a fake series of \"Rizospastis\", the Central Committee newspaper. This generated confusion among the remaining scattered underground members.\n\nA small group of old party officials formed the \"Old Central Committee\" and two of them were elected by the 6th Conference. In his memoirs for the Greek Civil war, C. M. Woodhouse (the British liaison with Greek resistance groups during World War II) wrote: \"The 'Old Central Committee' interpreted a directive issued by Comintern as indicating collaboration with the German and Italian dictatorships, given the Hitler-Stalin alliance\". On the other hand, Woodhouse argues that Georgios Siantos, who had escaped from prison; and Nikos Zachariadis, who was still incarcerated, took the opposite view that KKE must support Metaxas in his fight against Mussolini. The archives of KKE also address the confusion between different KKE cadres as the \"Old Committee\" interpreted the politics of Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy as part of the \"imperialistic game between the Axis forces and the British\". This faction of KKE felt that the Metaxas regime was a \"pawn of British imperialism in the region\" and therefore the \"Old Committee\" viewed any war between the Axis forces and the British as an \"imperialistic war that the people of any of the countries involved should not participate in\". According to KKE's account, this position was criticised by Comintern in 1939 (a few months after the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact), which had instructed KKE to fight against Italy in the event of an invasion of Greece.\n\nNikos Zachariadis, KKE General Secretary, wrote from prison on 2 November 1940: \"Today the Greek people are waging a war of national liberation against Mussolini's fascism. In this war we must follow the Metaxas government and turn every city, every village and every house of Greece into a stronghold of the National Liberation Fight... On this war conducted by Metaxas government all of us should give all our forces without reservation. The working people's and the crowning achievement for today's fight should be and shall be a new Greece based on work, freedom, and liberated from any foreign imperialist dependence, with a truly pan-popular culture\".\n\nSeveral party members, including Nikos Ploumpidis of the \"Old Central Committee\", denounced this letter as a forgery produced by the Metaxas regime. Zachariadis was even accused of writing it to win the favour of Konstantinos Maniadakis, the Minister for Public Order, to win his release from prison. According to one source, when drafting this letter Zachariadis was unaware of the German–Soviet Non-aggression Pact and was castigated by the Comintern for an anti-Soviet stance.\n\nAccording to KKE's archives, the \"Old Central Committee\" had been denounced for its stance on the war issue and today KKE claims that the majority of the party membership had not followed the decision of being neutral in case of an invasion. On 16 November 1940, Zachariadis repudiated the line of his first letter in a second letter where he accused the Greek Army of waging a \"fascist\" and \"imperialistic war\" and appealed to the Soviet Union for peaceful intervention, thus aligning his position with that of the \"Old Central Committee\".\n\nOn 7 December 1940, the \"Old Central Committee\" issued a manifesto addressed \"to all the workers and public servants, to all soldiers, sailors and airmen, to patriot officers, to the mothers, fathers, wives and children of the fighters and the workers of all neighboring countries\", in which it describes the war as a game of the imperialist powers, headed by the British. According to KKE, the \"Old Central Committee\" based this opinion on the belief that Mussolini's Italy would not dare to attack a country that had a cooperation agreement with the Soviet Union. The main political line of this manifesto was the call to the soldiers on the front not to go beyond Greek borders, but after securing them to try seek a peace agreement with the enemy.\n\nZachariadis may have issued a third letter on 17 January 1941, in which he explained the motives for his first letter and wrote: \"Metaxas remains the principal enemy of the people and the country. His overthrowing is in the most immediate and vital interest of our people ... the peoples and soldiers of Greece and Italy are not enemies but brothers, and their solidarity will stop the war waged by capitalist exploiters\".\" \"\n\nAccording to KKE archives, Zachariadis had issued no further letters and the third letter may have been in fact the statement of the \"Old Central Committee\" on 18 March 1941. In any case, Zachariadis himself referred in his public statements after liberation almost exclusively to his first letter as proof of the patriotic character of KKE and its role as an inspiration to the Greek resistance movement during the war.\n\nOn 22 June 1941, the very same day that Hitler attacked the Soviet Union, KKE ordered its militants to organize \"the struggle to defend the Soviet Union and the overthrow of the foreign fascist yoke\".\n\nOn 6 April 1941, the German invasion was launched and Athens was occupied on 27 April following an unconditional surrender of the Greek forces by General Georgios Tsolakoglou, who was later appointed Prime Minister by the Nazis. Confusion remained among many Greek Communists as to what the Moscow-sanctioned position was. In his memoirs, KKE leader Ioannis Ioannidis wrote about a regional communist cadre who proclaimed the following as Greece was being bombed by the Axis: \"The Germans will not bomb us. The mustached-one [Stalin] will not let them\".\n\nA large number of KKE members were already in prison before the Nazi invasion. The pro-Nazi occupation government handed some of them over to the Nazis fearing that they—following the pro-Soviet party line—would resort to sabotage in Greece following Hitler's attack on the Soviet Union on 22 June 1941. There were many occasions that police officers released Communist prisoners, especially the ones that they were in exile in Aegean islands. In 1941, several KKE members managed to escape prison. One of the many stories includes the 20 communists held as political prisoners in Heraklion, Crete. They demanded to be released to fight against the invading Germans. The Greek government, which had left mainland Greece by then and was en route to Egypt, had no power to release them. They eventually escaped after their jail was damaged by German bombs and joined the British and Greek forces defending the Heraklion harbor. After the fall of Crete, many officers of the Greek Army joined forces with ELAS and became commanders in ELAS's corps of partisan units\n\nIt became German policy—especially after it became obvious to them that they were losing the war—to execute civilians in retaliation for attacks against them by communist or non-communist partisans. Approximately 200 communists, delivered to the Germans on 1941, were executed at the Kaisariani Shooting Range on 1 May 1944.\n\nAlthough KKE was suffering from a lack of central political leadership since its leader Nikos Zachariades had been taken by the Germans to the Dachau concentration camp, its members succeeded in maintaining communication with each other. The 6th Meeting of KKE Central Committee was held in Athens from 1–3 July 1941, which decided on strategy for an armed liberation struggle against the Axis invaders. At the same time, the \"Old Central Committee\" submitted to the authority of the new Central Committee. The first united resistance organization was founded in the regions of Macedonia and Thrace on 15 May 1941. In Thessaloniki, the Macedonian Bureau of KKE established the \"Eleftheri\" (Liberty) Organization, along with the Socialist Party, the Agrarian Party, the Democratic Union and Colonel Dimitrios Psarros (who later founded the EKKA).\n\nThe Macedonian Bureau of KKE organised the first two partisan units at the end of June 1941. The first was based in Kilkis and was named \"Athanasios Diakos\", the second was based in Nigrita and was named \"Odysseas Androutsos\". These small partisan units blew up bridges, attacked police stations and eventually organized into larger combat units of more than 300 men each. In several other places and in major cities, small armed groups of KKE members and non-communists began to emerge, protecting people from looters, the Germans, or collaborators. On 27 September 1941, Greek communists together with five other leftist parties formed the National Liberation Front (EAM) in Kallithea, Athens and began forming partisan militia units.\n\nOn 16 February 1942, the Greek People's Liberation Army (ELAS) was founded in a small kiosk in Fthiotida and by 1943 it consisted of 50,000 members, both men and women, with 30,000 as reserve units in major cities. The KKE played a prominent role in the organisation. By the end of the war, some 200,000 Greek citizens, both workers and peasants, had joined the ranks of KKE. KKE maintained its alliances with the EAM. Its main stated aim at this time was to form a united government with all parties that wanted to see Greece liberated from foreign powers.\n\nELAS conflicted finally with the rest of the resistance organizations and armies (especially EDES and EKKA), accusing most of them of being traitors and collaborators of the Nazis. These were the first conflicts of the coming civil war.\n\nNikos Zachariadis was imprisoned in Dachau; he was released in 1945 and returned to Greece as the elected general secretary of the KKE. During his imprisonment, Andreas Tsipas and Georgios Siantos served as party general secretaries.\n\nAfter the liberation of Greece from the Nazi German forces, the government of National Unity, led by G. Papandreou, landed in Athens in October 1944. The government was formed after the Treaty of Cazerta and its main purpose was to form the new Greek state, try accused political and military personnel of collaboration with the Germans and to hold a referendum for the government and the constitution. After the first weeks, it was obvious that British policy in the region was against these goals as KKE and EAM were controlling 98% of Greece and they were afraid of the foundation of new socialist state. Papandreou demanded the disarmament of ELAS and the trials of the collaborators were stalled. Meanwhile, British troops together with the \"refined\" Greek arm divisions after the prosecution of thousands of EAM members in the middle east, loyal to the Papandreou segment, were landing in all major Greek cities and EAM was welcoming them as liberators. In mid-November 1944, the situation escalated dramatically, KKE criticised the interference of British General Scobie in Greek affairs, EAM refused to disarm ELAS and ELAN. Six ministers of the EAM, resigned from their positions in the government of Georgios Papandreou in November 1944. Fighting broke out in Athens on 3 December 1944 during a demonstration organised by EAM and involving more than 100,000 people. According to some accounts, the police, covered by British troops, opened fire on the crowd. More than 28 people were killed and 148 injured. According to other accounts, it is uncertain if the first shots were fired by the police or the demonstrators. A member of the pro-monarchists Nikos Farmakis, in one of his interviews revealed that they had a direct order to fire at will when the demonstrators reach the court of the Palace. This incident was the beginning of the 37‑day Battle of Athens (\"Dekemvriana\"). Following a ceasefire agreement called the Treaty of Varkiza, ELAS laid down the majority of its weapons and dissolved all of its units. Right-wing groups, including elements which had collaborated with the Germans, seized this opportunity to persecute many KKE members.\n\nAccording to EAM figures, in the few months after the Treaty of Varkiza the anticommunist violence on the Greek mainland had resulted in the imprisonment or exile of 100,000 ELAS partisans and EAM members, the deaths of 3,000 EAM officials and members, the rape of between 200 and 500 women, the burning of houses and other acts of violence. The KKE Central Committee issued a directive to all party forces not to engage in any armed conflict, but to try to prevent attacks by other means. This caused confusion among the majority of its supporters and served to weaken the party organisation across the country.\n\nLarge groups had returned to their partisan hideouts in the mountains and gradually formed smaller partisan units. As most of the ELAS armoury had been surrendered under the terms of the Varkiza treaty, these units armed themselves with weapons seized from attacks on militia units that had been provided arms by the police as well as attacking police stations. By mid-1946, these units forced the KKE leadership to change its neutral position and to plan the formation a partisan army with the officers and fighters that were still free. On 26 October 1946, KKE militia units attacked the police station in Litochoro, armed their forces and founded the Central Greece Command of the Democratic Army of Greece (DSE). After this successful operation, the remaining scattered groups reorganized the pre-Varkiza Treaty ELAS formations all over the country. KKE's political influence and organization structure helped form units in the Aegean Islands of as Mytilene, Chios, Ikaria, Samos and Crete.\n\nThe Civil War involved two sides. On the one side was the British and American-backed Greek government, led by Konstantinos Tsaldaris and later Themistoklis Sophoulis, which was elected in the 1946 elections which the KKE had boycotted. On the other side was the Democratic Army of Greece, of which the KKE was the only major political force, backed by the NOF, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia and Albania.\n\nIn December 1947, KKE and its allies that participated in the Civil War formed the Provisional Democratic Government (\"Mountain Government\") under the premiership of Markos Vafiadis. After this, the KKE (still legal due to the Treaty of Varkiza) turned illegal.\n\nOn 29 January 1949, the Greek National Army appointed General Alexander Papagos Commander-in-Chief. In August 1949, Papagos launched a major counter-offensive against DSE forces in northern Greece, code-named \"Operation Torch\". The plan was for the Greek National Army to gain control of the border with Albania in order to surround and defeat the DSE forces, numbering 8,500 fighters. The DSE suffered heavy losses from the operation, but managed to retreat its units to Albania.\n\nCharilaos Florakis, whose \"nom de guerre\" was Kapetan Yiotis, was a DSE-appointed Brigadier General during this battle. Florakis was ordered by the DSE High Command to re-enter Greece with his battalion via the Gramos Mountains and try to establish connection with all the DSE forces that remained within Greece. The battalion indeed reached small DSE units south of Gramos down to Evritania and retreated thereafter back to Albania. Floriakis later served as General Secretary of KKE from 1972 to 1989.\n\nOn 28 August 1949, the Civil War in Greece ended with the DSE forces defeated militarily and politically and KKE entered a new phase in its history.\n\nAfter the Civil War, the KKE was outlawed and most of its prominent members had to flee Greece, go underground or provide a signed declaration that they renounced communism to avoid prosecution as under Law 504, issued in 1948, a large number of KKE members were either prosecuted, jailed or exiled. Prominent members of the KKE were tried and executed, including Nikos Beloyannis in 1952 and Nikos Ploumpidis in 1954. The execution of Ploumpidis was the last such execution by the post-Civil War governments. The fear of widespread reaction from left-wing citizens curbed further executions and eventually led to the gradual release of most political prisoners. In 1955, there were 4,498 political prisoners and 898 exiles while in 1962 there were 1,359 prisoners and 296 exiles. However, under the prevailing anticommunist rules the communists and KKE sympathizers were barred from the public sector and lived under a repressive anticommunist surveillance system. Such discrimination against communists was partially relieved with the legalization of KKE in 1974 and the discrimination ended in the 1980s. During this period of illegality, the KKE supported the United Democratic Left (EDA) Party.\n\nFormer king Constantine II claims that in 1964 he proposed to George Papandreou (senior) that the KKE be legalized. According to the former monarch, Papandreou refused to comply so as not to lose his party's left-wing supporters. This allegation cannot be verified as it was expressed after Papandreou's death. Moreover, Constantine's public statements regarding communism during the 1960s renders the veracity of this allegation questionable.\n\nOn 21 April 1967, a group of right-wing Greek Army colonels led by Georgios Papadopoulos successfully carried out a coup d'état on the pretext of imminent \"communist threat\", establishing what became known as the Regime of the Colonels. All political parties, including EDA, were dissolved and civil liberties were suppressed for all Greek citizens. KKE members were persecuted along with other opponents of the junta.\n\nIn 1968, a crisis escalated between KKE's two main factions. The crisis was already festering during the 12th plenum of the party's central committee held in Budapest between 5 and 15 February 1968 in which three members of the politbureau (M. Partsalidis, Z. Zografos and P. Dimitriu) were expelled for fractionist activity and was further triggered by the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia. This event led a number of Greek communists who were ideologically leaning with the so-called opportunist faction to break with KKE that was loyal to the Socialist Republic's policy and to follow the nascent Eurocommunist line, which favored a more pluralistic approach to socialism. A relatively large group split from KKE, forming what became the Communist Party of Greece (Interior). The spin-off party forged bonds with Eurocommunist parties such as the Italian Communist Party as well as with Nicolae Ceauşescu's Romanian Communist Party. Its supporters referred to KKE as the KKE (Exterior) (\"ΚΚΕ εξωτερικού\"), inferring that KKE's policies were dictated by the Politburo of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union.\n\nDespite the difficulties resulting from the split, KKE continued its opposition to the Greek Junta throughout the next six years. Its political fighting against the regime took the form of labour disruptions and strikes and small demonstrations all over the country. Its power was rising inside the Universities where the newly founded Communist Youth of Greece (KNE) began working underground. KKE underground forces continued to work closely with other political groups of the center and left within Greece and abroad. In many European capitals anti-Junta committees were founded to support the struggle in Greece.\n\nAfter the restoration of parliamentary democracy in 1974, Constantine Karamanlis legalised the KKE hoping to reclaim \"a vital part of national memory\". In the 1974 elections, the KKE participated with the KKE Interior and the EDA under the name of the United Left, receiving 9.36 per cent of the vote. In the elections from 1977 to 1989, the KKE participated on its own.\n\nIn 1989, the political consequences of the Civil War were finally lifted. The war was named \"Civil War\" instead of \"War against the gangs\" (\"συμμοριτοπόλεμος\"), that was the official state name for that era up until that point and DSE fighters were named \"DSE fighters\" instead of \"Communist Gangfighters\" (\"κουμουνιστοσυμμορίτες\").\n\nIn 1944, KKE participated in the national unity government of George Papandreou, holding the positions of Minister of Finance, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Labor, Minister of National Economy and Public Works and Deputy Minister of Finance.\n\nIn 1988, KKE and Greek Left (Greek EAP; the former KKE Interior), along with other left-wing parties and organisations, formed the Coalition of the Left and Progress (Synaspismos). In the June 1989 elections, Synaspismos gained 13.1 per cent of votes and joined a coalition with New Democracy to form a short-lived government amidst a political spectrum shaken by accusations of economic scandals against the previous administration of Andreas Papandreou's Panhellenic Socialist Movement. In November of the same year, Synaspismos participated in the \"Universal Government\" with New Democracy and Panhellenic Socialist Movement which appointed Xenophon Zolotas as Prime Minister for three months. In 1991, KKE withdrew from Synaspismos. Some KKE members left the party and remained in Synaspismos, which evolved into a separate left-wing party that is now an alliance of Synaspismos with other leftist groups called the Coalition of the Radical Left.\n\nKKE actively participated in the anti-austerity protests beginning in 2010.\n\nIn first 2012 legislative election held on 6 May, the party polled over 8.5% and 5 more seats with a total of 26 seats.\n\nFor the second 2012 legislative election on 17 June 2012, the party got 4.5% a decline of 4% and lost 14 seats. After the Hellenic Parliament failed to elect a new President of State by 29 December 2014, the parliament was dissolved and a snap legislative election was scheduled for 25 January 2015. The Communists got a surge in support by getting more than 5.5% at the fresh elections later that year, where the party got a further increase of 5.6% of the vote. \n\nSince the 2015 election, the party has seen a further increase of its support in opinion polls, overtaking the former major party PASOK to become the 4th-largest party.\n\nSince the mid-1970s, through the rapid growth of the LGBT rights movement, most Western far-left parties have supported LGBT+ rights. However, the Communist Party of Greece, like the Communist Party of the Russian Federation, has rejected LGBT+ rights and maintained explicitly homophobic positions. For example, the party voted against the Civil Partnerships Bill proposed by Syriza, responding: The aim of the bill is essentially the institutional recognition of the families of same-sex couples, including—eventually—the adoption of children by them. And that is where our own difference lies.\n\nRights and obligations arise within marriage, which is the legal expression of the social relations of the family. It includes social protection of children, who are biologically the result of sexual relations between a man and a woman.\n\nWith the formation of a socialist-communist society, a new type of partnership will undoubtedly be formed—a relatively stable heterosexual relationship and reproduction.\n\nMany leftist parties, including Syriza, and many anarchist organizations and Trotskyist parties including the International Communist League (Fourth Internationalist) and its Greek affiliate, the Trotskyist Group of Greece, have denounced the KKE's homophobic stances as bigotry.\n\nThere have been a series of splits throughout the party's history, the earliest one being the Trotskyist Organisation of Internationalist Communists of Greece.\n\nIn 1956, after the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union at which Nikita Khrushchev denounced the excesses of Joseph Stalin, a faction created the Group of Marxist–Leninists of Greece (OMLE), which split from party in 1964, becoming the Organisation of Marxists-Leninists of Greece.\n\nIn 1968, amidst the Greek military junta of 1967–1974 and the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia, a relatively big group split from KKE, forming KKE Interior, claiming to be directed from within Greece rather than from the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1988, KKE and Greek Left (the former KKE Interior), along with other left parties and organisations, formed the Coalition of the Left and Progress.\n\nAlso in 1988, the vast majority of members and officials from Communist Youth of Greece (KNE), the KKE's youth wing, split to form the New Left Current (NAR), drawing mainly youth in major cities, especially in Thessaloniki.\n\nIn the early 2000s, a small group of major party officials such as Mitsos Kostopoulos left the party and formed the Movement for the United in Action Left (KEDA), which in the 2007 legislative election participated in the Coalition of the Radical Left, which was to win the 2015 national elections with a plurality.\n\nKKE's youth organization is the Communist Youth of Greece, which closely supports KKE's goals and strategic targets.\n\nKKE is a force in the Greek political scene, rallying a significant amount of support within the organized working-class movement. KKE is currently trying to mold a loose and rather disorganised international communist movement along a purely Marxist–Leninist line. Since its 18th congress (February 2009), KKE has opened up a discussion within the ranks and more broadly within the Greek left-leaning community on the future evolution of communism in the 21st century, with a particular emphasis on examining the causes of the collapse of the Socialist system in the former Soviet Union and in Eastern Europe.\n\nThe KKE stands in elections and has representatives in the Greek Parliament, local authorities and the European Parliament, where its two MEPs sit with the Non-Inscrits. On 3 June 2014, following the 2014 European elections the Central Committee of the KKE announced that it would no longer continue the party's affiliation to the European United Left–Nordic Green Left (GUE/NGL) group in the European parliament.\n\nIt publishes the daily newspaper \"Rizospastis\". It also publishes the political and theoretical journal \"Komounistiki Epitheorisi\" (Communist Review) every two months and a journal covering educational issues, \"Themata Paideias\".\n\nKKE delegations participated in international conferences of Communist and working parties (1957, 1960, 1969, Moscow). KKE approved the documents accepted at the conferences.\n\n\n<br>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1660444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1660444", "title": "Cricket test", "text": "Cricket test\n\nThe cricket test, also known as the Tebbit test, was a controversial phrase coined in April 1990 by the British Conservative politician Norman Tebbit in reference to the perceived lack of loyalty to the England cricket team among South Asian and Caribbean immigrants and their children. Tebbit suggested that those immigrants who support their native countries rather than England at the sport of cricket are not significantly integrated into the United Kingdom.\n\nPost-war Britain experienced mass migration from the cricket playing countries of the West Indies and South Asia. Ever since, the issue of assimilation and multiculturalism has been a controversial issue in British politics.\n\nTebbit, in an interview with the \"Los Angeles Times\", said: \"A large proportion of Britain's Asian population fail to pass the cricket test. Which side do they cheer for? It's an interesting test. Are you still harking back to where you came from or where you are?\"\n\nTebbit told Woodrow Wyatt in 1991 that he did not think certain immigrant communities would assimilate \"because some of them insist on sticking to their own culture, like the Muslims in Bradford and so forth, and they are extremely dangerous.\"\n\nThe phrase \"cricket test\" and the associated loyalty concepts received a lot of media attention for many months after Tebbit's statement, and have been widely discussed and argued over ever since.\n\nLord Tebbit later claimed that his test could have prevented the Glasgow International Airport attack and the 2007 London bombs. However many argue to the contrary.\n\n"}
{"id": "39597858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39597858", "title": "Dalecarlian rebellions", "text": "Dalecarlian rebellions\n\nThe Dalecarlian rebellions () were a series of Swedish rebellion which took place in Dalarna in Sweden: the First Dalecarlian Rebellion in 1524-1525, the Second Dalecarlian Rebellion in 1527–1528, and the Third Dalecarlian Rebellion (also known as the Bell Rebellion) in 1531–1533. The rebellions were conducted by the peasantry of Dalarna against the Swedish monarch, king Gustav Vasa. Mutual reasons for all three rebellions were loss of support of Gustav I among the Dalecarlian peasantry because of the economic crisis, the increased royal power and the unpopular Swedish Reformation.\n\nEconomic crisis occurred after the Swedish war of liberation because of the trade monopoly the king had granted the Hanseatic Lübeck in exchange for their support in recapturing the capital during the war. The discontent was used by two Catholic priests, former Bishop Peder Jakobsson of Västerås, a follower of Sten Sture the Younger, and Knut Mickelsson, who opposed the inclinations of Lutheranism which the king had displayed as early as 1524, who stirred up the emotions against the king and for the Sture family in the province.\nIn the spring of 1525, the Dalecarlians held a meeting and wrote a letter in which they complained of the foreign bailiffs and the imprisonment of Sten Sture's widow Christina Gyllenstierna, and stated that they would renounce their fealty unless their demands were met. They reportedly contacted Søren Norby, who offered Christina marriage. The king managed to subdue the discontent by promising to meet their demands in May 1525, and the leaders fled to Norway. They were extradited in 1526, and executed through Breaking wheel in February 1527.\n\nIn 1527, the continuing discontent over the economy crisis, a new tax to Lübeck and the Swedish Reformation, which was launched that year, unleashed the second rebellion in Dalarna, centered around the so-called \"Daljunkern\" (The Youngster from Dalarna), who had come from Norway claiming to be Nils Stensson Sture, son of Sten Sture the Younger and Christina Gyllenstierna. This resulted in a feud between the Dalecarlian parishes, which were divided between their loyalties toward the king and the Sture family. The king called representatives of the rebels to negotiations in Uppsala in May 1527, and kept ongoing contacts with them. The Daljunkern left for Norway, but continued to support the rebels from there. In February 1528, the king led an expedition to the Tuna parish, summoned the peasantry at the church, and declared them rebels and outlaws with no right to decide who to be monarch, and gave them the choice to present all taking part of the rebellion, or else all in the parish were to be executed. This resulted in the rebels being brought forth and executed on the spot, until the king decided for the end of the bloodbath and accepted to show mercy to the remaining rebels. In April, one of the leaders, Peder Grym, were publicly executed in the capital.\n\nIn 1531, the Reduction of Gustav I of Sweden of the ongoing Swedish Reformation and a new tax, where every parish were obliged to contribute with one of their church clocks, resulted in a rebellion were rebels from several of the parishes killed and abused the kings clock collectors. In May, they offered to pay the worth of the clocks in money, which the king accepted. At that point, Christian II of Denmark was attempting to regain his throne, and the king was occupied elsewhere. In January 1533, he was free to deal with the rebellion. He summoned the Dalecarlians to a meeting, where he met them with an army, threatened them, fined them, extradited the clock tax with force and arrested several of the leaders, Måns Nilsson, Anders Persson and Ingel Hansson, and took them to the capital, where they were executed in early 1534.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1298133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1298133", "title": "Danny Nalliah", "text": "Danny Nalliah\n\nDaniel \"Danny\" Nalliah (born 1964) is a Sri Lankan Australian evangelical Christian pastor and young earth creationist. He is the leader of the Rise Up Australia political party and the president of Catch the Fire Ministries. Nalliah defended against a lawsuit brought by the Islamic Council of Victoria under Victoria's Racial and Religious Tolerance Act. In this case, Judge Michael Higgins found in favour of the Islamic Council of Victoria, which took the action against Catch the Fire, but his decision was overturned by the Victorian Court of Appeal. \n\nNalliah used to be associated with the Australian Christian Churches.\n\nAccording to his biography published by the Catch the Fire Ministries, Daniel Nalliah was born in Sri Lanka to minority Sri Lankan Tamil parents who spoke English as their first language. However, he was schooled at the Nugegoda Tamil Mahavidyalaya in Colombo, where all teaching was in done in Tamil. He was introduced to the \"ways of God\" by an Australian missionary. In his youth, he played at a number of night clubs in Colombo as a drummer before turning to religion. He also worked as an underground missionary in Saudi Arabia before migrating to Australia in 1997.\n\nAfter moving to Australia and founding Catch the Fire Ministries, Nalliah travelled extensively, preaching to congregations in a number of countries. He asserts that he witnessed the healing of blind, deaf and crippled people at his prayer sessions and also claims that a dead girl was resurrected after he prayed for her.\n\nOn 9 March 2002, Daniel Scot spoke at a seminar regarding Islam, sponsored by Catch the Fire Ministries. The seminar was attended by three Australian Muslims; two of them were asked to attend by May Helou, an executive member of the Islamic Council of Victoria (ICV) and an employee of the Equal Opportunity Commission, Victoria. The third person was asked to attend by ICV members while he was at the ICV office. The three Muslims, along with the Islamic Council of Victoria, later launched action under the Racial and Religious Tolerance Act, claiming that the intent of the speech had been to vilify Muslims rather than to discuss Islam itself. After being considered by the Equal Opportunity Commission, the case was heard by the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT), becoming the first real test case under the act.\n\nIn a landmark ruling on 17 December 2004, the tribunal ruled that Nalliah, Scot and Catch the Fire Ministries had breached the law. Judge Higgins heard further submissions regarding \"remedies\" early in 2005. Nalliah publicly condemned the verdict and declared his intention to continue fighting the case, potentially as far as the High Court of Australia. \"The Age\" newspaper quoted him as stating, \"We may have lost the battle, but the war is not over. The law has to be removed, there is no question.\"\n\nOn 22 June 2005, Judge Michael Higgins of the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal delivered his final verdict on the religious vilification issue regarding remedies. He found that financial compensation would be inappropriate but ordered Nalliah and Scot to take out newspaper advertisements to the value of $68,690 that summarised the findings in the case. Nalliah criticised the ruling, comparing the legislation to \"sharia law by stealth\". He also said that he would rather go to jail than comply with the ruling. Lawyers for the defendants had previously appealed to the Supreme Court of Victoria, in an originating motion alleging that Higgins showed signs of bias, that there were errors in the decision and that the act itself was unconstitutional. Following the decision, an appeal was lodged with the Court of Appeal, and the originating motion was dropped. The appeal was heard in August 2006.\n\nThe Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, an interfaith public interest law firm based in Washington, D.C., had intervened on Scot's behalf, engaging in discussion with the Attorney General of Australia, providing legal representation with local counsel and providing legal arguments employed for the legal appeal. On 14 December 2006, the Court of Appeal of Victoria upheld the appeal and ordered that the matter be redecided without hearing new evidence by a judge (other than Judge Higgins) of the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal. The Islamic Council of Victoria was ordered to pay half of Scot's and Nalliah's legal costs of the appeal.\n\nThe matter was eventually resolved without a VCAT hearing after mediation between the two parties. On 22 June 2007 VCAT published a statement agreed to by both parties which affirmed everyone's rights to \"robustly debate religion including the right to criticise the religious belief of another, in a free, open and democratic society\".\n\nIn November 2004, Nalliah campaigned for a seat in the Australian Senate as a candidate of the Family First Party. He was slotted second on the party's Victorian Senate list but failed to be elected. Nevertheless, his candidacy caused considerable controversy when National Party Senate candidate Barnaby Joyce launched a heavily publicised attack on Family First and his own party's preference deal with them the day before the election. Joyce highlighted a quote from one of Nalliah's brochures that asked parishioners to pray that God would pull down \"Satan's strongholds\", which included brothels, gambling places, bottle shops, mosques and temples (including Freemason, Buddhist and Hindu temples). Joyce used Nalliah's derogatory statements about minority groups to describe Family First as \"not the sort of people you do preference deals with.\"\n\nIn late October 2009, the Family First parliamentary leader, Senator Steve Fielding, noted that after the incident cited above Nalliah was asked to leave the party and did so. At the same time, Nalliah argued that the discovery of an adolescent \"satanist\" Black Mass site in Canberra's Mount Ainslie indicated that the federal parliament was \"under attack\" and referred to witchcraft, liberal abortion laws and legislation that supported LGBT rights in Australia as the \"reason\" behind an apparent spate of parliamentary marriage crises.\n\nOn 22 June 2011, Nalliah launched a new political party, Rise Up Australia, which he leads. The launch date was picked as it was the anniversary of Nalliah's successful case in the Supreme Court. Stated aims of the party include the protection of freedom of speech, freedom of religion and preserving Australia's \"Judeo-Christian heritage\".\n\nIn a 2011 interview with Perth's \"Out in Perth\", Nalliah stated that homosexuals can be turned back to heterosexual relationships through education and through Christ. \"As a political party, while we love the homosexual community and want to get to know them better, we also have a stand where we say, children need to be protected. We would love to see every man and woman come together, there's a time in life when you do things, and maybe you feel yes you are locked into an agenda... [our position] is that homosexuality is not OK.\" He also said that \"Children should not be exposed to [public displays of homosexual affection] and other practices that go beyond morality.\"\n\nIn the wake of the Black Saturday bushfires, in which 173 died, Nalliah claimed he had received \"prophetic dreams\" on 21 October 2008 that these bushfires were a \"consequence\" of Victoria's decriminalisation of abortion in 2008, prompting criticism from a former Australian Treasurer, Peter Costello, that Nalliah's assertion was \"beyond the bounds of decency\".\n\nNalliah's statements linking the bushfires to abortion laws were awarded the 2009 Gold Ernie, an annual award given to those whose comments are regarded as the most sexist.\n\nNalliah planned to use the Holsworthy Barracks terror plot as an argument to explain that Christianity should be protected \"as the core value of the nation\" in his speech titled \"Is the West being de-Christianised?\" delivered at the Australian Christian Nation Association Annual National Conference held on 21 November 2009 at the Assyrian Sport and Cultural Club, Fairfield Heights, Sydney.\n\nAfter the catastrophic 2010–2011 Queensland floods, Nalliah declared on his website \"at once I was reminded of Kevin Rudd speaking against Israel in Israel on 14th December 2010. It is very interesting that Kevin Rudd is from QLD. Is God trying to get our attention? Yes, I believe so.\"\n\n\"We also know that Stalin and his communist ideologies were responsible for the murder of millions of people. Although communist ideologies seemed to be very good to many millions of people, the end result was much death and destruction. In other words, 'One Word' becomes a gate way to lead to great disaster if we don't wake up in time. We have seen Nazism and Communism destroy many nations.\n\n\"So we need to take a good look at the word 'Multiculturalism'. Although this word seems to sound so good, in reality it is currently destroying the Judeo-Christian West and replacing it with an 'Interfaith' deceptive agenda led by the United Nations. It is Communism wearing a new uniform. It is also worth noting that the first few letters of this word is \"Multicult\"-uralism.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5390895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5390895", "title": "Dipotassium phosphate", "text": "Dipotassium phosphate\n\nDipotassium phosphate (KHPO) (also dipotassium hydrogen orthophosphate; potassium phosphate dibasic) is a highly water-soluble salt which is often used as a fertilizer, food additive and buffering agent. It is a common source of phosphorus and potassium.\n\nA dipotassium phosphate solution is formed by the stoichiometric reaction of phosphoric acid with two equivalents of potassium hydroxide:\n\nAs a food additive, dipotassium phosphate is used in imitation dairy creamers, dry powder beverages, mineral supplements, and starter cultures. It is used in non-dairy creamers to prevent coagulation.\n\nDipotassium phosphate is also used to make buffer solutions and it is used in the production of trypticase soy agar which is used to make agar plates for culturing bacteria.\n\nA 3% gel of dipotassium phosphate is used as the active ingredient in Crest Sensi-Strips, a common tooth sensitivity product. \n\nAs a food additive, dipotassium phosphate is categorized in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration as generally recognized as safe (GRAS). \n\nThe compound is for food uses although it may be bad for consumers to eat vast amounts of it."}
{"id": "365300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=365300", "title": "Dispute Settlement Body", "text": "Dispute Settlement Body\n\nThe Dispute Settlement Body (DSB) of the World Trade Organization (WTO) makes decisions on trade disputes between governments that are adjudicated by the Organization. Its decisions generally match those of the Dispute Panel.\n\nThe DSB is, in effect, a session of the General Council of the WTO: that is, all of the representatives of the WTO member governments, usually at ambassadorial level, meeting together. It decides the outcome of a trade dispute on the recommendation of a Dispute Panel and (possibly) on a report from the Appellate Body of WTO, which may have amended the Panel recommendation if a party chose to appeal. Only the DSB can make these decisions: Panels and the Appellate Body are limited to making recommendations. \n\nThe DSB uses a special decision procedure known as 'reverse consensus' or 'consensus against' that makes it almost certain that the Panel recommendations in a dispute will be accepted. The process requires that the recommendations of the Panel (as amended by the Appellate Body) should be adopted \"unless\" there is a consensus of the members against adoption. This has never happened, and because the nation 'winning' under the Panel's ruling would have to join this reverse consensus, it is difficult to conceive of how it ever could.\n\nOnce it has decided on the case, i.e., whether the complaint had been shown to be right or wrong, the DSB may direct the 'losing' Member to take action to bring its laws, regulations or policies into conformity with the WTO Agreements. This is the only direction that emerges from a WTO dispute. There is no concept of \"punishment\" or even restitution. The DSB will give the losing party a \"reasonable period of time\" in which to restore the conformity of its laws etc.\n\nIf the losing party fails to restore the conformity of its laws within the \"reasonable period of time\", the DSB may—on an exceptional basis—authorise a successful complainant to take retaliatory measures to induce action on the part of the losing party. This is very rare. Almost all WTO members \"voluntarily\" implement DSB decisions in time. Of course, when a losing country brings its laws etc. into conformity it may choose how to do so; indeed, it may not necessarily make the changes that the winning party would prefer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9407202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9407202", "title": "Dockominium", "text": "Dockominium\n\nA dockominium is the water-based version of a condominium; rather than owning an apartment in a building, one owns a boat slip on the water. The term is a portmanteau of \"dock\" and \"condominium.\" In addition to the exclusive right to use the boat slip, ownership also provides one with the right to use the common elements of the marina, much the same as one would have the right to use the common areas in a residential condominium development. Also, unit owners may use, rent, or sell their unit at any time, subject to association approval.\n\nSimilar to a condominium, a management company manages the common areas and provides all required services such as maintenance, security, insurance, bookkeeping, legal, and overall management and supervision of the dockominium facility. A monthly fee is charged to cover these expenses. Typically, water is included, while electricity and cable, etc. are billed separately via the management association. Real estate taxes are separately assessed by the municipality and are the responsibility of the unit owner.\n\nA dockominium is created when a marina converts or sells individual slips to individual owners. Traditionally, marinas are in the business of renting or leasing space. A comparison would be the conversion of a rental apartment to a condominium. An association is created that monitors the maintenance and operation of the marina. Individual owners are responsible for paying their monthly, quarterly, or annual association dues and for paying their own property taxes assessed on the slip. Dockominium conversions are a popular trend taking place in the marina industry in high demand areas focusing on the luxury markets.\n\nHowever, despite the advantages, whether or not dockominium sales are legal varies according to laws of each area. Few marina owners also own the land under the water, and most have only an easement to the property. Individual unit sales may violate law, thus following the legal concept of the public trust doctrine that provides that public trust lands, waters, and living resources in a state are held by the State in trust for the benefit of all of the people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3989298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3989298", "title": "Dolev–Yao model", "text": "Dolev–Yao model\n\nThe Dolev–Yao model is a formal model used to prove properties of interactive cryptographic protocols.\n\nThe network is represented by a set of abstract machines that can exchange messages.\nThese messages consist of formal terms. These terms reveal some of the internal structure of the messages, but some parts will hopefully remain opaque to the adversary.\n\nThe adversary in this model can overhear, intercept, and synthesize any message and is only limited by the constraints of the cryptographic methods used. In other words: \"the attacker carries the message.\"\n\nThis omnipotence has been very difficult to model and many threat models simplify it, as, for example, the attacker in ubiquitous computing.\n\nCryptographic primitives are modeled by abstract operators. For example, asymmetric encryption for a user formula_1 is represented by the encryption function formula_2 and the decryption function formula_3. Their main properties are that their composition is the identity function (formula_4) and that an encrypted message formula_5 reveals nothing about formula_6. Unlike in the real world, the adversary can neither manipulate the encryption's bit representation nor guess the key. The attacker may, however, re-use any messages that have been sent and therefore become known. The attacker can encrypt or decrypt these with any keys he knows, to forge subsequent messages.\n\nA protocol is modeled as a set of sequential runs, alternating between queries (sending a message over the network) and responses (obtaining a message from the network).\n\nThe symbolic nature of the Dolev–Yao model makes it more manageable than computational models and accessible to algebraic methods but potentially less realistic. However, both kinds of models for cryptographic protocols have been related. Also, symbolic models are very well suited to show that a protocol is \"broken\", rather than secure, under the given assumptions about the attackers capabilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "44594933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44594933", "title": "Equal Pay Day", "text": "Equal Pay Day\n\nEqual Pay Day is the symbolic day dedicated to raising awareness of the gender pay gap. The date for 2018 was April 10 in the United States. This date symbolizes how far into the year women must work to earn what men earned in the previous year, the exact day differs both by year and by country. For example, Equal Pay Day in 2005 in the United States was on April 19. In 2016, the average salary for females in the United States was 79% of that of the average male.\n\nThe symbolic day was first observed in 1996 by the National Committee on Pay Equity, a coalition of women's and civil rights organizations, labor unions, professional associations and individuals working to eliminate sex and race based wage discrimination and to achieve pay equity.\n\nThe gender pay gap is defined as the average difference between men’s and women’s aggregate hourly earnings. The wage gap is due to a variety of causes, such as differences in education choices, differences in preferred job and industry, differences in the types of positions held by men and women, differences in the type of jobs men typically go into as opposed to women (especially highly paid high risk jobs), differences in amount of work experience, difference in length of the work week, and breaks in employment. These factors resolve 60% to 75% of the pay gap, depending on the source. Various explanations for the remaining 25% to 40% have been suggested, including women's lower willingness and ability to negotiate salaries and discrimination. According to the European Commission direct discrimination either does not cause any gender wage differences or only explains a small part of it.\n\nEqual pay day is more widely observed in Germany than it is in the United States, or elsewhere for that matter; for example, the online presence is far greater, such as the Equal Pay Day Wiki, the Wikipedia page in German, and this Equal Pay Day informational site (all links are in German). An interesting thing to note about Equal Pay Day in Germany is that it falls on different days than it does in the United States, because the wage gap in Germany is different and also because the formula used to calculate the Equal Pay Day date is different. Whereas in 2016 Equal Pay Date in the United States was observed on April 12, in Germany it was observed on March 19.\n\nThe date on which Equal Pay Day is observed is different in every country due to differing formulas for observing the day and also due to different wage gaps. For example Equal Pay Day in Czech Republic is observed each year as a major two-day event involving over 2,000 people with an extensive educational program. See more on http://www.equalpayday.cz. \n\n"}
{"id": "55758741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55758741", "title": "Fraser Anning", "text": "Fraser Anning\n\nWilliam Fraser Anning (born 14 October 1949) is an Australian politician who has been a Senator for Queensland since 10 November 2017. He was elected to the Senate after a special recount was triggered by the removal of One Nation senator Malcolm Roberts, who was found ineligible to be chosen as a senator due to his citizenship status. He chose not to join One Nation in the Senate, sitting as an independent until June 2018 when he joined Katter's Australian Party as its first senator, before later being expelled from the party in October 2018.\n\nAnning and his wife own a number of hotels and live in Gladstone. They have two daughters.\n\nAnning grew up in north-west Queensland on Wetherby Station, one of the Anning family's pastoral properties near the isolated town of Richmond. Anning is the great grandson of Charles Cumming Stone Anning, a British pastoral squatter who came to the Australian colonies in the mid 19th century to acquire landholdings. In 1862, Charles and several of his adult sons established the Reedy Springs property north of Hughenden. The family soon expanded their claims by forming the nearby properties of Chudleigh Park, Mount Sturgeon, Charlotte Plains and Cargoon. All this land was occupied at the time by various Aboriginal clans and subsequent frontier conflict occurred as the Annings forcibly took control of the land from the local people. In response to the spearing of cattle, Charles and his sons would ride out with firearms, attack Aboriginal campsites and capture young boys who survived in order to use them as labour on their cattle and sheep stations.\n\nIn 1865, the Annings employed W.R.O. Hill, an officer in the paramilitary Native Police, to be their station manager at Reedy Springs. Hill, who had experience in warfare against Aboriginal people, wrote in his memoirs that at Reedy Springs the \"only wise thing to do on seeing a black was to shoot and shoot straight\". Frank Hann, who was another pastoralist in the region who regularly participated in extrajudicial punitive raids on Aboriginals, described in his diary in 1874 how he saw \"Anning just come back from hunting blacks.\"\n\nFraser Anning's grandfather, Francis \"Frank\" Albert Anning, spent much of his time at Reedy Springs but also bought into further properties such as Wollogorang, Savannah Station and Compton Downs. At Wollogorang in particular, Frank Anning had to surround his hut with wire mesh to prevent spear attacks and was knocked unconscious by a waddy in another incident. One of Frank's sons was W.H.(Harry) Anning who took up the Wetherby property, and whose wife gave birth to Fraser Anning in October 1949.\n\nIn 1998, he stood as a One Nation candidate for the lower house division of Fairfax at that year's federal election.\n\nAnning was third on the One Nation ticket in Queensland at the 2016 federal election. He gained just 19 first-preference votes under the optional preferential voting system to select twelve senators from Queensland. Prior to his appointment to the Senate, he was facing bankruptcy legal action due to money owed to the Bendigo and Adelaide Bank which could have made him ineligible, but the case was withdrawn.\n\nUpon his swearing in to the Senate on 13 November 2017, Anning was vouched for (a parliamentary custom indicating that the new member is who he claims to be) by two crossbenchers from other parties: Cory Bernardi (Australian Conservatives) and David Leyonhjelm (Liberal Democrats). One Nation leader Pauline Hanson subsequently issued a media release saying that Anning had \"abandoned\" the party to sit as an independent \"until something else comes along\". Anning responded that \"she [Hanson] made my position pretty much untenable with her conditions.\" On 16 November, it was reported that neither Anning nor Hanson had formally made their intentions clear to the Senate chamber regarding his party status, and he therefore remained a One Nation senator in the eyes of the Senate. It was also unclear whether Hanson intended to expel Anning solely from the parliamentary group or the wider organisational party as well. On 15 January 2018, Anning advised the Senate President that he would henceforth sit as an independent. On 5 February 2018, he formed a voting bloc with Bernardi and Leyonhjelm.\n\nHe is a public opponent of same sex marriage, and was one of twelve senators who voted against the 2017 bill. In 2017, when Cory Bernardi moved a motion opposing Medicare funding of gender-selective abortion, Anning was one of ten MPs who voted for the motion, which was defeated with 36 votes against. On 22 March 2018, Anning announced that he would support the Turnbull Government's proposed company tax cuts.\n\nOn 4 June 2018, Anning joined Katter's Australian Party, becoming the party's first senator; however, he was expelled in October 2018 for his inflammatory rhetoric concerning immigration, including his mention of a \"final solution\" to the problem.\n\nAnning introduced a private members' bill calling for less stringent import laws for mace, pepper spray and tasers, to \"allow women to defend themselves\". It was supported by David Leyonhjelm, Peter Georgiou, Cory Bernardi and Brian Burston, but rejected by both major parties and the Greens.\n\nOn 14 August 2018, Anning delivered his maiden speech to the Senate in what was described by journalist Michael Koziol as \"the most inflammatory maiden speech to an Australian Parliament since One Nation leader Pauline Hanson's in 1996.\" In it, he called for a plebiscite to reintroduce racial and religious discrimination in immigration policy, especially with regard to excluding Muslims. He criticised \"cultural Marxism\", \"safe schools and gender fluidity garbage\" and the \"abuse\" of the external affairs power of the Australian constitution. He also spoke in support of the right of civilians to own firearms, and the Bradfield Scheme irrigation proposal.\n\nHis most controversial comment included a reference to a \"final solution\", a term infamously used by the Nazi Party during preparation and execution of the Holocaust during World War II. Anning has claimed his comments were taken out of context, saying that he had used the phrase to introduce the last of six policies he proposed about immigration. His comments received condemnation from across parliament, including the Labor, the Liberals, the Nationals, the Greens, One Nation and the Centre Alliance, among other crossbenchers in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. He has refused to apologise for his comments. Pauline Hanson said she was appalled by Anning's comments and described them as \"straight from Goebbels' handbook\". However, Anning's party leader Bob Katter described it as \"a magnificent speech, solid gold\" and said he \"1000 percent supports\" Anning. In October of the same year, Katter expelled Anning.\n\nIn September 2018 he called the Safe Schools programme \"disgusting garbage\" and said: “Fifty years ago, if a communist pervert had proposed that our nation’s children be forced to listen to sexually deviant propaganda, they would probably have been strung up[...]In critical theory, ethnic and religious minorities, radical feminists, sexual deviants, Third World immigrants and antisocial criminals could take the place of the proletariat to create a post-communist revolution, deconstructing traditional values and the white family[...]The ridiculous lie that gender is variable or fluid would be laughable if its intent were not so sinister\". After his time in the Senate was up, Anning went on to post more on Twitter, writing, “The real goal of the Safe Schools Commo perverts is absolutely nothing to do with safety in schools or compassion. Safe schools is a dangerous and degenerate program.” \n\nIn September 2018, Anning's Facebook page was \"unpublished\" (removed), after one of his posts was reported for hate speech. In a tweet, Anning said \"Free speech is under attack [...] this is completely unacceptable and we will fight this.\"\n"}
{"id": "53249716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53249716", "title": "Generation 2000", "text": "Generation 2000\n\nGeneration 2000 (G2K) is the young professional affiliate of the Jamaica Labour Party (JLP). It is a center-right political youth organization that was founded in 2000 by a group of young professionals that saw a need for professional politics in Jamaica . The organization was incorporated as a corporate non-profit body, with a board of Directors chaired by Dr. David Panton in the year 2000. The current President of Generation 2000 is Stephen Edwards, a Civil Engineer and former University Lecturer, who is a graduate of Boston College and Florida International University.\n\nPresidents of Generation 2000 typically become Members of Parliament, Senators and Constituency Caretakers in Government of Jamaica. \n"}
{"id": "40742342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40742342", "title": "Gerard's conspiracy", "text": "Gerard's conspiracy\n\nIn what has become known as Gerard's conspiracy, a group of Royalists conspired to assassinate England's Lord Protector Oliver Cromwell in May 1654. It was discovered before an assassination attempt could be made and the Protectorate arrested about forty men. Three were tried for high treason. A ring-leader, John Gerard, was found guilty and executed, as was Peter Vowell. Summerset Fox pleaded guilty and was sentenced to transportation. The view of the Royalists and their sympathisers was that the conspirators had fallen into a trap set by Cromwell.\n\nEarly in 1654 John Gerard went over to France, where he was presented to Charles II by his cousin, Charles Gerard, Lord Brandon. Soon after his return to England in May 1654, a scheme to assassinate the Lord Protector Oliver Cromwell on his way to Hampton Court was discovered. About forty people, among whom were Aubrey, Earl of Oxford, the two Ashburnhams (John and William), Sir Richard Willis, John Gerard and his elder brother Sir Gilbert, were arrested.\n\nIt was alleged that in company with a Royalist major, one Henshaw (whom Gerard had met in France), Gerard with 30 other mounted men were to attack the Lord Protector, as he rode to Hampton Court, and, after overwhelming his bodyguard and killing him, to besiege Whitehall, seize the Tower of London, and proclaim Charles II king.\n\nOnly three men, John Gerard, Peter Vowell (a schoolmaster) and Summerset Fox were brought to trial before the High Court of Justice.\n\nThe trial began on 3 June. Fox pleaded guilty (and was sentenced to transportation to Barbados). The other two were convicted on the evidence of ten of their accomplices, one of whom was Gerard's brother Charles, a youth of nineteen, he himself being but twenty-two. Gerard declared that he had been to Paris on private business, and that Charles II had desired his friends not to engage in plots. The reluctant evidence of his younger brother Charles, to whom he sent his forgiveness from the scaffold, pointed to treasonable conversations with Henshaw and the rest in taverns.\n\nGerard and Vowell were sentenced to death by hanging. Vowell was hanged, but Gerard successfully petitioned to be beheaded instead. Gerard died with undaunted courage on 10 July 1654 at Tower Hill, avowing his Royalism, but denying all participation in the conspiracy.\n\nThe Royalist writers published a copy of his prepared speech, and affirmed that he fell into a trap set by Cromwell. This view has been elaborately restated by Reginald Palgrave in the \"English Historical Review\" for October 1888, in the course of a controversy between that writer and C. H. Firth. However, no certain proof has been adduced of Cromwell's complicity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56271686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56271686", "title": "Jacqueline Salit", "text": "Jacqueline Salit\n\nJacqueline Salit is a leader of the Independent voting movement in the United States and president of IndependentVoting.org and the Committee for a Unified Independent Party (CUIP).\n\nAs head of the Independent voting movement, Salit has asserted that Independents should not attach themselves to any other political party, but should remain 'anti-party', \"whose ascension will be the death of established parties\". Furthermore, she has highlighted the importance of remaining ideologically-neutral, or all-inclusive, maintaining that the goal is to wrest control of the electorate from established mainstream parties, and promoting \"cross-ideological\" democracy. \n\nSalit published a book titled \"Independents Rising\" in 2012.\n\nShe previously served as campaign manager for Lenora Fulani's bid for the presidency. \n"}
{"id": "7785218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7785218", "title": "James C. Hathaway", "text": "James C. Hathaway\n\nJames Hathaway (born 1956) is an American-Canadian scholar of international refugee law and related aspects of human rights and public international law. His work is regularly cited by the most senior courts of the common law world, and has played a pivotal role in the evolution of refugee studies scholarship . Among his more critical achievements, Hathaway pioneered the now well-accepted understanding of refugee status as surrogate or substitute protection of human rights (The Law of Refugee Status, 2014); he authored the world's first comprehensive analysis of the human rights of refugees, merging doctrinal study of refugee and human rights law with empirical analysis of the state of refugee protection around the world (The Rights of Refugees under International Law, 2005); and he directed a multidisciplinary and global team of scholars and officials in an initiative to reconceive the structures of refugee protection more fairly to share burdens and responsibilities (Reconceiving International Refugee Law, 1997).\n\nHathaway earned an LL.B. (Honors) at Osgoode Hall Law School of York University, and a J.S.D. and LL.M. at Columbia University. He was called to the bars of the Canadian provinces of Ontario and New Brunswick. He presently resides in San Francisco, Tucson, and Vancouver.\n\nSince 1998, Hathaway has been the James E. and Sarah A Degan Professor of Law at the University of Michigan Law School (USA) where he is also the founding Director of the Program in Refugee and Asylum Law. In addition he presently serves as:\n\nHe has been appointed a visiting professor at the American University in Cairo, and at the Universities of California, Macerata, San Francisco, Stanford, Tokyo, and Toronto.\n\nPrior to joining the Michigan faculty, Hathaway served as:\n\nFrom 2008 until 2010, Hathaway was on leave from Michigan Law School as the Dean and William Hearn Chair of Law at the Melbourne Law School in Australia . At Melbourne he led the Law School's transition to become Australia's first, all-graduate (JD) program. Hathaway's main focus was to establish Melbourne as Australia's leading law school, including by joining leading law schools from around the world in establishing the London-based Centre for Transnational Legal Studies, and launching joint degree programs linking Melbourne with leading law schools on three continents, including the Chinese University of Hong Kong (JD/LLM), New York University (JD/JD and JD/LLM) and Oxford University (JD/BCL).\n\nHathaway's scholarly work focuses on international human rights and refugees.\n\nAmong his more important publications are a treatise on the refugee definition, \"The Law of Refugee Status: 2nd Edition (with M. Foster)\" (2014); an interdisciplinary study of refugee law reform, \"Reconceiving International Refugee Law\" (1997); and an analysis of the nature of the legal duty to protect refugees \"The Rights of Refugees under International Law\" (2005).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36220702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36220702", "title": "Jonathan Lomas (researcher)", "text": "Jonathan Lomas (researcher)\n\nJonathan Lomas (born June 21, 1952 in Swansea, Wales) is a British-Canadian health researcher and the inaugural Chief Executive Officer of the Canadian Health Services Research Foundation (CHSRF). He specializes in health services research and knowledge translation/exchange and has been called the \"godfather of knowledge translation\" by the Canadian Institutes for Health Research. Lomas became an Officer of the Order of Canada in 2010.\n\nLomas was born on June 21, 1952 in Swansea, Wales, but spent most of his childhood in England. He obtained an undergraduate degree in experimental psychology from Oxford University in the early 1970s before moving to Canada as a Commonwealth Scholar. He obtained a master's degree in Psychology from the University of Western Ontario in 1975.\n\nBetween 1982 and 1997 Lomas was a Professor of Health Policy Analysis in the Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics at McMaster University where, along with Greg Stoddart, he co-founded the Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis (CHEPA), an applied research group with a strong emphasis on research dissemination and uptake.\n\nIn 1997 he became the inaugural CEO of the Canadian Health Services Research Foundation (CHSRF), a nationally endowed organization founded to improve the relevance and use of health services research in health system decision-making.\n\nLomas has been a consultant to national and provincial governments in Canada, and also to non-governmental organizations, task forces and inquiries. He has worked on international health issues as a consultant for the World Health Organization, the World Bank, the International Development Research Centre and the Rockefeller Foundation in Indonesia, Sri Lanka, The Philippines, South Korea, Myanmar (Burma), Thailand and Australia. He has been a Visiting Professor or Scientist at the University of Gadjah Mada in Indonesia (1990), the University of Sydney, Australia (where he was also a Visiting Scholar in the Department of Health of the New South Wales Government) (1996/97), and the Dutch national research and development agency ZonMw (2004).\n\nLomas has published two books. He has also published many peer reviewed articles and book chapters in the area of health policy and health services research. He is recognized as an international leader for his work exploring the role and impact of research evidence in health systems decision-making and is seen in Canada as the \"godfather of knowledge translation.\"\n\nLomas received an Honorary Doctorate from the University of Montreal in 2005 as part of the Department of Health Administration’s 50th Anniversary celebrations. The Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR) also recognized his achievements by establishing the \"Jonathan Lomas KT Doctoral Research Award\" Supplement in his honour. In 2006 he was elected as a Fellow of the Canadian Academy of Health Sciences (CAHS) and as a Specially Elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada.\n\nDr. Lomas became an Officer of the Order of Canada in January 2010; In 2012 he was awarded the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal .\n\nJonathan Lomas is now retired and lives in Victoria, British Columbia with his wife B.J. Porter.\n\nIn 1980, he ran as a New Democratic Party candidate in the Canadian federal election in Toronto’s Don Valley West riding. He placed third, with 9.6% of the popular vote.\n"}
{"id": "21609890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21609890", "title": "Labour Party (South Africa, 1969)", "text": "Labour Party (South Africa, 1969)\n\nThe Labour Party () was a South African political party founded in 1969 and led for many years by Allan Hendrickse. Although avowedly opposed to apartheid, it participated in the Coloured Persons Representative Council. It opposed the guerrilla struggle of Umkhonto we Sizwe and the call for international sanctions against South Africa. The party later dominated the House of Representatives in the Tricameral Parliament from its foundation in 1984 until 1992, winning 76 of the 80 seats in the 1984 elections and 69 in those of 1989. When the National Party of F. W. de Klerk decided to admit non-White members, however, a substantial number of members of the House of Representatives who had been members of Labour crossed the floor to join the Nationalists. In 1992, a group of 36 such former Labour members led by Jac Rabie engineered a vote of no confidence in Hendrickse's Labour government. Losing influence at the polls, Hendrickse concluded that the Labour Party had fulfilled its uses, and the party was disbanded in 1994, with Hendrickse and his followers joining the African National Congress.\n\nThe name of the New Labour Party of Peter Marais was meant to evoke Hendrickse's Labour Party. It is not to be confused with the earlier Labour Party (South Africa), which had represented White industrial workers.\n"}
{"id": "343795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343795", "title": "Labour Party (UK) affiliated trade union", "text": "Labour Party (UK) affiliated trade union\n\nIn British politics, the term affiliated trade union refers to a trade union that has an \"affiliation\" to the British Labour Party. The party was created by the trade unions and socialist societies in 1900 as the Labour Representation Committee. Since then, the unions have retained close institutional links with the Party. During Tony Blair's leadership of the Labour Party the RMT and Fire Brigades Union severed their links. However, the Fire Brigades Union re-affiliated to the Labour Party in November 2015.\n\nThe nature of affiliation means that the unions pay an annual fee to the Labour Party; in return, they and their members receive the privileges of affiliated membership. Unions select twelve of the thirty-two members of the Labour National Executive Committee and elect fifty per cent of the delegates to Labour Party Conference. In many cases, local union branches also affiliate to Constituency Labour Parties and their members who are also individual members of the Party may represent the Union as delegates on Labour Party structures.\n\nMembers of the unions may \"opt out\" of the affiliation, so that the member is not allowed to take part in any Labour Party ballots (such as the leadership election) in which other members of the affiliated union are involved.\n\nSince 1994, affiliated trade unions have organised themselves into TULO - The Trade Union & Labour Party Liaison Organisation, with a small number of staff to manage the relationship between the unions and the Party. A national TULO committee, with the unions' general secretaries, the Party Leader and Deputy Leader, General Secretary and NEC Chair and MPs' representatives, meets regularly to co-ordinate work and policy.\n\nAs of April 2017, the trade unions affiliated to the Labour Party are:\n\n\nThe General Federation of Trade Unions (GFTU) represents its members, seven of the smaller unions, on many of the committees if they cannot send a delegate. In 2015, Unity merged into the GMB. In January 2017, the Broadcasting, Entertainment, Cinematograph and Theatre Union (BECTU) merged with Prospect, a trade union that represents certain grades in the civil service and other professionals. Because Prospect represents civil servants, they are politically neutral and so BECTU disaffiliated from the Labour Party as a condition of the merger. In January 2017, the Union of Construction, Allied Trades and Technicians (UCATT) merged into Unite.\n\nFormerly, there were many more small trade unions in the UK, and many of them affiliated to the Labour Party. In 1946, the affiliates were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34764942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34764942", "title": "Leon Jordan", "text": "Leon Jordan\n\nLeon Mercer Jordan (May 6, 1905, Kansas City, Missouri - July 15, 1970, Kansas City, Missouri) was an American police officer, politician and civil rights leader who was assassinated. He was \"one of the most influential African Americans in Kansas City's history\" and, at the time of his death, the \"state's most powerful black politician\".\n\nJordan attended Lincoln High School in Kansas City, served in the U.S. Army, and graduated from Wilberforce University in Wilberforce, Ohio in 1932. He married fellow Wilberforce student Orchid Irene Ramsey on August 10, 1932. After graduation, he worked as a school teacher.\n\nJordan joined the Kansas City Police Department in 1938, became a detective, and in 1952, became the first African-American police lieutenant in that department's history. He took a leave of absence in 1947, and spent eight years training the police forces of Liberia. A pilot, he flew his own plane around the country. In 1948, he helped coordinate the rescue of the French High Commissioner of West Africa and 16 other French officials after their plane made a forced landing. He was awarded the Chevalier of the Star of Africa by Liberian President William Tubman in 1948.\n\nIn 1951, Jordan became a life member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. He returned to Kansas City in February, 1952, and was promoted to police lieutenant. However, he discovered that he had little power, so he resigned and went back to Liberia for three years. He returned to Kansas City for good in the mid-1950s, and purchased the Green Duck Tavern.\n\nIn 1958, Jordan became a Democratic Party committeeman for the 14th Ward of Kansas City. In 1962, Jordan co-founded Freedom, Inc. along with Bruce R. Watkins. The organization advocated political awareness among African-Americans in Kansas City, organized a massive voter registration drive, and developed African-American political candidates. In 1963, Jordan and Watkins helped pass an accommodations ordinance, desegregating all public facilities in the city.\n\nIn 1964, Freedom, Inc. put forward eight candidates for office, and seven of them won. Among them was Jordan, who was elected to the first of three terms in the Missouri House of Representatives. He was campaigning for a fourth term at the time he was murdered. Shortly before his death, he described himself as a \"radical\", adding \"I'm not a conformist but there are bounds of reason.\"\n\nAt about 1:00 a.m. on July 15, 1970, he was killed just outside his Green Duck Tavern by three shotgun blasts. Eyewitnesses reported that the three killers were African-American. The shotgun had been stolen, and was abandoned immediately. When it was recovered, it was traced to a burglary five years earlier in Independence, Missouri.\n\nThree men were arrested for the murder, including at least one affiliated with a criminal group called the \"Black Mafia\". One man was acquitted, and charges were dropped against the other two suspects.\n\nJordan was killed using a Remington 12-gauge Wingmaster shotgun which was one of several guns that had been stolen from a hardware store in Independence, Missouri in 1965. A January, 1966, report on the burglary by the Independence Police Department stated that the guns had later been sold through a \"North End Italian fence.\" This report was not discovered in the initial investigation of Jordan's murder, but was uncovered by investigative journalists working for the \"Kansas City Star\" in 2010. When the reporters asked the Kansas City Police Department about the gun, they were told that it had been lost in 1973. The gun may have been sold in a police surplus auction. Some time later, the police purchased the used shotgun from a gun store, and did not check the serial number. The gun was refurbished and placed into police service.\n\nOn November 5, 1997, a police officer used the shotgun to shoot and wound an armed suspect in North Kansas City, Missouri. The gun was analyzed by the crime lab, who failed to identify it as the Jordan murder weapon, and it was returned to police service the following year. Only when the \"Kansas City Star\" asked questions about the missing shotgun in 2010 did a crime lab technician run a computer check that located the gun, which was recovered from the trunk of a police car and then returned to the evidence room.\n\nIn 2010, reporters with the \"Kansas City Star\" began investigating the assassination while preparing for coverage of the 40th anniversary of Jordan's death. This led to discovery of the missing murder weapon and some old fingerprint cards, and that motivated the Kansas City Police Department to re-open the official investigation of the department's oldest cold case. Civil rights leader Alvin Sykes pressed the department for a complete investigation. In trying to determine who was responsible for the assassination, the newspaper reported that Jordan and his Freedom, Inc. political movement had been opposed to the \"North End\" faction in Kansas City politics, a group under the influence of La Cosa Nostra, and which had previously controlled black voting blocs. In 1965, Jordan had punched Frank Mazzuca, a fellow state legislator who was alleged to have supported mob interests in Jefferson City, Missouri, and death threats against Jordan were reported in the aftermath.\n\nThe newspaper reported that police informants associated with the Black Mafia had described the killing as a favor to North End mob interests, and that it was organized by \"Shotgun Joe\" Centimano, owner of a local liquor store. The informants said that Centimano had supplied the murder weapon and recruited the killers. The newspaper reported that one informant said the assassination had elements of both a \"contract killing\" and a \"revenge killing\", and that another said it was \"all about politics.\" News coverage said that a 900-page police report finished in 2011 had concluded that mob boss Nick Civella had given his \"blessing\" to Jordan's assassination. No one was indicted because all of the main players were dead by then.\n\nJordan's widow, Orchid, became a candidate for his legislative seat when her husband was killed. She won the election, and served for 16 years in the Missouri House of Representatives. She died on December 25, 1995 at the age of 85.\n\nThe Leon M. Jordan Memorial Park, located at 31st Street and Benton Boulevard in Kansas City, features a statue of Jordan and the following text on a plaque on the front of its base:\n\nHis papers, including extensive documentation of his service in Liberia, are collected in the library of the University of Missouri-Kansas City.\n\nFarnsworth, Robert M. (2013), Leon Mercer Jordan, The Founder of Freedom, Inc. Following in the Footsteps of His Father and Grandfather, University of Missouri Press\n\n"}
{"id": "28493532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28493532", "title": "Liquidationism", "text": "Liquidationism\n\nIn Leninist theory, liquidationism () is the ideological abandonment (liquidation) of the vanguard party's program, either in whole or in part, by party members. \nAccording to the Bolshevik leader Vladimir Lenin, writing in 1909, liquidationism \"consists ideologically in negation of the revolutionary class struggle of the socialist proletariat in general, and denial of the hegemony of the proletariat\".\n\nNikolai Aleksandrovich Rozhkov was identified by Lenin as a liquidationist.\n\nIn his concluding remarks to the 1914 \"Marxism and Liquidationism\" symposium, Lenin made the distinction between \"Left liquidationism,\" which is \"leaning towards anarchism, and \"Right liquidationism,\" which is \"liquidationism proper\" and \"leans towards liberalism.\"\nThe term is still used in modern, ideological discussions of the Communist Left.\n"}
{"id": "21670399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21670399", "title": "List of ECHR cases concerning existence of political parties", "text": "List of ECHR cases concerning existence of political parties\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23538280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23538280", "title": "List of places and things named after Simón Bolivar", "text": "List of places and things named after Simón Bolivar\n\n\n\nBolivar is often referred to as \"El Libertador\" (The liberator), and a number of places bear this title in his honour. In the southern part of South America \"El Libertador\" may refer to José de San Martín.\n"}
{"id": "54248000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54248000", "title": "Lord Buckethead", "text": "Lord Buckethead\n\nLord Buckethead is a British satirical political candidate. A candidate of that name has stood in three United Kingdom general elections against three different Conservative Party leaders and Prime Ministers. Representing the Gremloids, a frivolous political party, he ran against Margaret Thatcher for parliament in Finchley in 1987, against John Major in Huntingdon in 1992, and against Theresa May in Maidenhead in 2017 where he polled 0.4% of the vote. \n\nOutside of political contexts, Lord Buckethead has appeared at Glastonbury Festival, introducing the band Sleaford Mods in 2017, and has additionally released a Christmas song titled \"A Bucketful of Happiness\".\n\nLord Buckethead claims to be an intergalactic space lord. His name and costume are derived from the 1984 cult sci-fi comedy \"Hyperspace\" (also known as \"Gremloids\", the name of Lord Buckethead's party) by writer and director Todd Durham. A candidate going by the name of Lord Buckethead has stood for parliament in three United Kingdom general elections, but on every occasion his face was obscured as he was wearing a bucket-like mask on his head. Lord Buckethead's participation in parliamentary elections has been considered typical of a British tradition for \"unorthodox candidates\" in politics, having been compared to the activities of the Official Monster Raving Loony Party.\n\nIn 1987, VIPCO, an indie home video label in the UK, was experiencing some problems. The owner of VIPCO, Mike Lee was running less controversial labels in 1987, so Mike decided to enter the election to get some publicity for one of the films he had at his company. Mike decided to dress up as Lord Buckethead, the villain of \"Gremloids\".\n\nIn 1992, VIPCO, which had been revived, had Gremloids on its release slate. Mike Lee decided to join the election as Lord Buckethead again. \n\nThe 2017 incarnation of Lord Buckethead was named as Jonathan David Harvey in the returning officer's declaration for the Maidenhead constituency in the 2017 United Kingdom general election.\n\nWhen asked by CBC Radio interviewer Carol Off if he was the same individual running as Lord Buckethead in each election or \"are you like Doctor Who, do you regenerate for each election?\", he replied: \"I am Buckethead. We are Buckethead. We are Legion. Does that answer your question?\"\n\nIn 1987, Lord Buckethead (Mike Lee) stood against Margaret Thatcher in Finchley. He campaigned to demolish Birmingham to make way for a spaceport. Buckethead received 131 votes in the ensuing general election. \n\nIn 1992, he (again Mike Lee) stood in Huntingdon against John Major. He received 107 votes (0.1%) in the general election.\n\nIn June 2017, Lord Buckethead (Jonathan David Harvey) campaigned for election in Maidenhead against Prime Minister Theresa May. He received 249 (0.4%) votes in the ensuing general election, the highest yet for the Lord Buckethead character. In a tongue-in-cheek article, \"The Guardian\" gave Buckethead a \"Best Policy\" award for a manifesto pledge to bring back Ceefax. A few days following the 2017 general election, Lord Buckethead made an appearance on the American late-night show \"Last Week Tonight with John Oliver\", appearing as a comedic alternative to Theresa May as the person to lead the United Kingdom into the upcoming Brexit negotiations.\n\nHe made a surprise appearance at Glastonbury Festival in June 2017 several days after that month's general election, being greeted with cheers and chants of his name. He introduced the group Sleaford Mods, whom he labeled \"the unassailable, the irreplaceable, [and] the unfathomable\". In 2017, Lord Buckethead also released a Christmas song and related music video titled \"A Bucketful of Happiness\". The \"Irish Independent\" published an article praising the video as \"a must-watch\".\n\nLord Buckethead's manifesto in the 2017 election promised \"strong, not entirely stable leadership\", a reference to the Conservatives' \"strong and stable\" slogan. The following promises were included:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17209732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17209732", "title": "Ministry of Defence (Iraq)", "text": "Ministry of Defence (Iraq)\n\nThe Ministry of Defence () is the Iraq government agency responsible for defence of Iraq. It is also involved with internal security.\n\nThe Ministry directs all the Iraqi Armed Forces, comprising a Joint Headquarters, the Iraqi Ground Forces Command (which controls the Army), the Iraqi Special Operations Forces, the Iraqi Army, the Iraqi Navy (including Marines), and the Iraqi Air Force.\n\nThe Ministry was dissolved by Coalition Provisional Authority Order Number 2 of mid-2003. It was formally re-established by CPA Order 67 of March 21, 2004. In the interim period, the CPA Office of Security Affairs served as the de facto Ministry of Defence.\n\nThe Iraqi Counter Terrorism Bureau directs the Iraqi Counter Terrorism Command, which is a further military force answerable to the Prime Minister of Iraq directly. As of 30 June 2009, there had been legislation in progress for a year to make the Iraqi CTB a separate ministry.\n\nThe position of Minister of Defence became vacant in the previous Iraqi cabinet, approved on 21 December 2010. While it was vacant, Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki served as the acting defence minister. Saadoun al-Dulaimi later served as Minister of Defence from 2011 to 2014. Khaled al-Obaidi currently serves as defence minister in the Iraqi cabinet of Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi.\n\nThe previous Minister of Defence, Lieutenant General Abd al-Qadr Muhammed Jassim al-Obaidi, is a Sunni career military officer and political independent. He had limited experience and faced a number of hurdles impeding his effective governance. Some of the major problems included inheriting a staff that is notorious for favorism, corruption, and deeply divided along sectarian and ethnic lines. He was a rival of the former Minister of the Interior Jawad al-Bolani, National Security Advisor Muwafaq al-Rubai, and Minister of Staff for National Security Affairs Shirwan al-Waili. He has been criticized for not being able to stand up to the Badr Organization and Mehdi Army members which dominate his own party. In addition, as a Sunni he faced inherent challenges working within a Shiite-dominated government.\n\nOn September 19, 2005, The Independent reported that approximately one billion US dollars have been stolen by top ranking officials from the Ministry of Defence including Hazim al-Shaalan and Ziyad Cattan.\n\nPrevious defence ministers under Saddam Hussein's regime included Ali Hassan al-Majid ('Chemical Ali'). Iraq's very first minister of defence was Jafar al-Askari (1920-1922).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47775857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47775857", "title": "Modern (political party)", "text": "Modern (political party)\n\n.Modern (, styled as \".Nowoczesna\"), is a liberal and classical-liberal political party in Poland. The party was founded in May 2015 by the former World Bank economist Ryszard Petru. Katarzyna Lubnauer became the party's leader in November 2017.\n\nThe party was founded in late May 2015 as NowoczesnaPL (ModernPL) by economist Ryszard Petru.\n\nDue to some controversy over its name – there had already been a non-governmental organization called the Modern Poland Foundation. In August 2015, the party's name was changed to .Modern (.Nowoczesna).\n\nAround the same time, the party's new logo was presented, and Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz became its spokesperson.\n\nThe party received 7.6% of votes in the 2015 parliamentary election, which resulted in winning 28 seats in the Sejm.\n\nThe party was admitted into the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE) on 4 June 2016.\n\nKatarzyna Lubnauer became the leader of Nowoczesna in November 2017. In leader elections at the party congress, Lubnauer received 149 votes and Petru received 140 votes.\n\nThe party has been compared to the Free Democratic Party of Germany (FDP), with its emphasis on economic liberalism in its policy platform.\n\n! 2018\n"}
{"id": "26301248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26301248", "title": "Money-Driven Medicine", "text": "Money-Driven Medicine\n\nMoney-Driven Medicine is a 2009 documentary film that offers a behind-the-scenes look at the American healthcare system. The 86 minute documentary explores the economics underlying, and often undermining, the $2.6 trillion US healthcare system. Produced by Alex Gibney and inspired by Maggie Mahar’s book \"Money-Driven Medicine: The Real Reason Health Care Costs So Much\", \"Money-Driven Medicine\" looks at how the United States spends twice as much per capita on healthcare as the average developed nation yet has worse outcomes by explaining that the United States is the only developed nation with a medical system that is largely unregulated and for profit. \"Money-Driven Medicine\" includes interviews of experts including Don Berwick, Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and former President and Chief Executive Officer of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement; James Weinstein of The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice and bio-ethicist Larry Churchill of Vanderbilt.\n\n"}
{"id": "19126489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19126489", "title": "Mozambique rule", "text": "Mozambique rule\n\nThe Moçambique rule, or (to adopt an anglicised form of spelling) Mozambique rule, is a common law rule in private international law. The rule renders actions relating to title in foreign land, the right to possession of foreign land, and trespass to foreign land non-justiciable in common law jurisdictions. It was established in 1893 by the House of Lords decision in \"British South Africa Co v. Companhia de Moçambique\" [1893] AC 602.\n\nEssentially, it is a self-imposed rule to limit jurisdiction in respect of actions relating to:\n\nIn \"Hesperides Hotels v Muftizade\" Lord Wilberforce referred to the ruling in \"Mozambique\" in the following terms:\n\"Subject to exceptions hereafter mentioned, the court has no jurisdiction to entertain an action for (1) the determination of title to, or the right to the possession of, any immovable situate out of England (foreign land); or (2) the recovery of damages for trespass to such immovable\".\n\nAlthough, under section 30(1) of the Civil Jurisdiction and Judgments Act 1982 \"the jurisdiction of any court in England and Wales or Northern Ireland to entertain proceedings for trespass to, or any other tort affecting, immovable property shall extend to cases in which the property in question is situated outside that part of the United Kingdom unless the proceedings are principally concerned with a question of the title to, or the right to possession of, that property.\" This rule was subject to much criticism and later became abolished by the above section (section 30(1) of the 1893 Act).\n\nThe decision in \"British South Africa Co v Companhia de Moçambique\" was based exclusively on the historical development of the circumstances in which, and reasons for which, a court in England would take jurisdiction to hear any matter.\n\nIn the 12th and early 13th centuries, the jury in both civil and criminal matters performed a role that resembles the modern day witness rather than as judges of fact. In particular, there was a requirement that the jury had to be drawn from the particular locality (e.g. village) from which the cause of action had arisen. This was based on the assumption that people from that locality are acquainted with the facts in the case from their personal knowledge. Therefore, it was important for the parties to the action to specify the venue or place at which the event occurred so that the Sheriff can summon the jury from that place. Law of Henry I (1100–1135) for instance, declared that juries from other than the venue stated were not to be permitted in any circumstances.\n\nAt the end of the 13th century or the beginning of the 14th century, due to the increasing sophistication of transactions and dispositions, this rule caused considerable inconvenience. This was especially so when the facts alleged occurred partly in one locality and partly in another. To resolve this problem, courts at that time began to differentiate between \"local\" and \"transitory\" actions.\n\nLocal actions were one in which the facts relied on by the plaintiff had a necessary connection with a particular place (e.g. action for ejectment from land).\n\nTransitory actions (such as breach of contract or trespass to the person) had no such necessary connection.\n\nIn the early development of the law relating to transitory actions, the rule was loosened so that the plaintiff may specify the venue in any county he/she desired. However, this led to abuses and in the 15th century, the statutes of Richard II and Henry IV reimposed strict requirements of laying the correct venue. However, the effects of these statutes was diminished by the use of a legal fiction (e.g. allegation that the \"foreign place\" was situated in the London parish of St. Marylebone). This legal fiction was developed as the courts realised the advantages of taking jurisdiction over mercantile matters which might have arisen outside England.\n\nThis development led to a distinction between local and transitory actions. With transitory actions, venue remained only a limitation on the verbal formula by which the plaintiff might frame a cause of action. However, with local actions, the requirement of the plaintiff laying the correct venue remained.\n\nThis strict distinction remained despite the fact that by the 16th century, the role of juries was changed. Juries had become triers of fact and the practice of laying sworn testimony of witnesses had become general. The juries, however, still had to be drawn from the county in which the venue was laid. If the matter had arisen outside England (i.e. a foreign locality), the legal fictions employed in transitory actions were not applicable, and so jury could be summoned to try the facts in issue. The matter could not be heard. For example, in \"Skinner v East India Co 6 St Tr 710\", the House of Lords in 1666, held that actions relating to ships and trespass to the person could be determined in courts in England because they were transitory in nature. But actions for dispossession of house and island, was not relievable in courts of England because they are local in nature.\n\nIn 1873, the Judicature Act abolished r 28 of the Rules of the Court. This meant that there was no need for a local venue to be laid. However, this change raised some issues. In particular, R H Collins argued that the legislative change might remove the disability of the English courts in relation to local actions, especially where the parties were domiciled in England. In the Court of Appeal in the Mozambique case, a majority (Fry and Lopes LJJ, Lord Esher dissenting) took a similar view of the effect of that Act. Fry LJ considered that the issue of jurisdiction in actions relating to land outside England could be resolved in two parts: Firstly, if the matter were requiring adjudication as to title, the court could not take jurisdiction, since it would have no power to ensure the execution of its order. Secondly, if the issue related to no more than trespass to foreign land, and judgment might be given by way of an award of damages against the defendant, the only bar to the exercise by the English court of jurisdiction was the technical one that the action was a local one for which a local venue was required to be laid. Therefore, Fry LJ concluded that due to the abolition of local venues by the Act, there was nothing to prevent the court from taking jurisdiction.\n\nBut this argument was rejected by Lord Hershell LC in the House of Lords. Lord Hershell LC said: \"The grounds upon which the courts have refused to exercise jurisdiction in actions of trespass to land situate abroad were substantial and not technical, and that the rules of procedure under the Judicature Acts have not conferred a jurisdiction which did not exist before\".\n\nEven though the courts have many opportunities to overturn the rule, they have refused to do so. Vinelott J in \"Tyburn Productions v Conan Doyle\" reasoned that it was too late for the courts to overturn the distinctions between local and transitory actions because it is settled. Vinelott J also reasoned that the grounds to which the courts have hitherto refused to exercise jurisdiction in actions of trespass to land situated abroad was substantial and not technical, and that the distinction was not accordingly affected by the Judicature Acts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1895016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1895016", "title": "One man, one vote", "text": "One man, one vote\n\nOne man, one vote (or one person, one vote) is a slogan used by advocates of political equality through various electoral reforms such as universal suffrage, proportional representation, or the elimination of plural voting, malapportionment, or gerrymandering.\n\nThe British trade unionist George Howell used the phrase \"one man, one vote\" in political pamphlets in 1880. During the 20th-century period of decolonisation and the struggles for national sovereignty, from the late 1940s onwards this phrase became widely used in developing countries where majority populations sought to gain political power in proportion to their numbers.\n\nThe slogan was notably used by the anti-apartheid movement during the 1980s, which sought to end white minority rule in South Africa.\n\nIn the United States, the \"one person, one vote\" principle was invoked in a series of cases in the 1960s. Applying the Equal Protection Clause of the United States Constitution, the Supreme Court majority opinion in \"Reynolds v. Sims\" (1964) ruled that state legislatures needed to redistrict in order to have congressional districts with roughly equal represented populations. In addition, the court ruled that, unlike the United States Congress, both houses of state legislatures needed to have representation based on districts containing roughly equal populations, with redistricting as needed after censuses.\n\nThis phrase was traditionally used in the context of demands for suffrage reform. Historically the emphasis within the House of Commons was on representing \"areas\": counties, boroughs and, later on, universities. The entitlement to vote for the Members of Parliament representing the constituencies varied widely, with different qualifications over time, such as owning property of a certain value, holding an apprenticeship, qualifying for paying the local-government rates, or holding a degree from the university in question. Those who qualified for the vote in more than one constituency were entitled to vote in each constituency, while many adults did not qualify for the vote at all. Plural voting was also present in local government, whereby the owners of business property qualified for votes in the relevant wards.\n\nReformers argued that Members of Parliament and other elected officials should represent citizens equally, and that each voter should be entitled to exercise the vote once in an election. Successive Reform Acts by 1950 had both extended the franchise eventually to almost all adult citizens (barring convicts, lunatics and members of the House of Lords), and also reduced and finally eliminated most of the plural voting for both Westminster and local-government elections.\n\nBut, there were two significant exceptions:\n\nThe City of London had never expanded its boundaries and, with many residential dwellings being replaced by businesses, and the destruction of The Blitz, after the Second World War the financial district had barely five thousand residents altogether. The system of plural voting was retained for electing the City of London Corporation, with some modifications.\n\nWhen Northern Ireland was established in 1921, it adopted the same political system then in place for the Westminster Parliament and British local government. But, the Parliament of Northern Ireland did not follow Westminster in changes to the franchise up to 1950. As a result, into the 1960s, plural voting was still allowed for both Parliament and local government. This meant that in local council elections only ratepayers and their spouses, whether renting or owning the property, could vote while company directors had an extra vote by virtue of their company's status. University representation continued at Stormont to 1969, while it was abolished for Westminster in 1948. Historians and political scholars have debated the extent to which the franchise for local government contributed to unionist electoral success in controlling councils in nationalist-majority areas.\n\nBased on a number of inequities, the Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association was founded in 1967. It had five primary demands, and added the demand that each citizen in Northern Ireland be afforded the same number of votes for local elections (national elections followed the same eligibility rules as the rest of the UK). The slogan \"one man, one vote\" became a rallying cry for this campaign. The Parliament of Northern Ireland voted to update the voting rules, which were implemented for the Northern Ireland general election, 1969.\n\nThe United States Constitution requires a decennial census for the purpose of assuring fair apportionment. Reapportionment has generally been conducted without incident with the exception of the reapportionment that should have followed the 1920 Census, which was effectively skipped pending resolution by the Reapportionment Act of 1929. Congressional seats have been reapportioned based on population changes between states. State legislatures initially established election of congressional representatives from districts, often based on traditional counties or parishes which preceded founding of the new government. The question arose as to whether the state legislatures were required to ensure that congressional districts were roughly equal in population and to draw new districts to accommodate demographic changes.\n\nSome states redrew their U.S. House districts every ten years to reflect changes in population patterns; many did not. Some never redrew them, except when it was mandated by a change in the number of seats to which that state was entitled in the House of Representatives. In many states, this led to a skewing of influence for voters in some districts over those in others. For example, if the 2nd congressional district eventually had a population of 1.5 million, but the 3rd had only 500,000, then, in effect — since each district elected the same number of representatives — a voter in the 3rd district had three times the voting \"power\" of a 2nd-district voter. Alabama's state legislature resisted redistricting from 1910 to 1972 (when forced by federal court order). As a result, rural residents retained a wildly disproportionate amount of power in a time when other areas of the state became urbanized and industrialized, attracting greater populations. Such urban areas were under-represented in the state legislature and underserved; their residents had difficulty getting needed funding for infrastructure and services. They paid far more in taxes to the state than they received in benefits in relation to the population.\n\nThe Constitution includes the result of the Great Compromise resulting in representation for the US Senate. Each state was equally represented in the Senate with two representatives, without regard to population. The Founding Fathers considered this principle of such importance that they included a clause in the Constitution to prohibit any state from being deprived of equal representation in the Senate without its permission; see Article V of the United States Constitution. For this reason, \"one person, one vote\" has never been implemented in the U.S. Senate, in terms of representation by states.\n\nWhen states established their legislatures, they often adopted a bicameral model based on colonial governments. Many copied the Senate principle, establishing an upper house based on geography - for instance a state senate with one representative drawn from each county. By the 20th century, this often led to state senators having widely varying amounts of power, with ones from rural areas having votes equal to senators representing much greater urban populations.\n\nActivism in the Civil Rights Movement to regain the ability of African Americans in the South to register and vote highlighted other voting inequities across the country. Numerous court challenges were raised, including in Alabama due to the lack of reapportionment, for decades.\n\nIn the United States Supreme Court held in a 4-3 plurality decision that left to the legislature of each state the authority to establish the time, place, and manner of holding elections for representatives.\n\nHowever, in the United States Supreme Court overturned the previous decision in Colegrove holding that malapportionment claims under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment were not exempt from judicial review under , as the equal protection issue in this case was separate from any political questions.\n\nThe \"one person, one vote\" doctrine, which requires electoral districts to be apportioned according to population, thus making each district roughly equal in population, was further cemented in the cases that followed \"Baker\", including which concerned the County Unit System in Georgia, which concerned state legislature districts, which concerned U.S. Congressional districts and which concerned local government districts, a decision which was upheld in . said states may use total population in drawing districts.\n\nUnder the 'M.P.V. System', however, no one person or voter has more than one effective vote for one office. No voter's vote can be counted more than once for the same candidate. In the final analysis, no voter is given greater weight in his or her vote over the vote of another voter, although to understand this does require a conceptual understanding of how the effect of a 'M.P.V. System' is like that of a run-off election. The form of majority preferential voting employed in the City of Ann Arbor's election of its Mayor does not violate the one-man, one-vote mandate nor does it deprive anyone of equal protection rights under the Michigan or United States Constitutions.\n\n\nThe term \"One man, one vote, one time\" has been applied to Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), Zambia, and Angola, where elections were successfully held that were relatively free of corruption and violence, but then a strongman took hold and free voting ended.\n\n"}
{"id": "273220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=273220", "title": "Pablo Iglesias Posse", "text": "Pablo Iglesias Posse\n\nPaulino Iglesias Posse (17 October 1850 – 9 December 1925), better known as Pablo Iglesias, was a Spanish socialist and labour leader. He is regarded as the father of Spanish socialism, having founded the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE) in 1879 and the Spanish General Workers' Union (UGT) in 1888.\n\nIglesias was born to Pedro Iglesias and Juana, humble parents who called him Paulino. He attended school between the ages of six and nine, when his father, a municipal laborer, died. Manuel, his younger brother, and their mother put their possessions in a small covered cart and walked with it to live in Madrid. Pablo's mother survived there by begging, and both boys entered the Hospicio of San Fernando. They completed primary schooling there, and Pablo learned printing. Aged twelve he left the Hospicio to work and to help support his mother. He worked as a printer, gradually improving his wages. While he was rendered unemployed by a strike, his brother died of tuberculosis.\n\nHe attended evening classes and learned French. This let him read classic works of French political science, translate the works of French socialists and participate successfully in international congresses. Protected by the 1869 Constitution, the Spanish section of the International Workingmen's Association (AIT) organized a series of conferences in Madrid. Iglesias attended, and in 1870, was invited to enter the printers section. The appearance of \"Solidarity\", newspaper of the International, started him on the intense journalistic career that occupied the rest of his life.\n\nIglesias in 1873 applied to join the Association of Art Printers and the following year was chosen as its president. From this platform he began several years of secret work preparing to start the world's second workers party. On 22 May 1879, at a renowned clandestine banquet of international brotherhood in Madrid, twenty-five people (led by Iglesias) founded the Spanish Socialist Workers Party (PSOE - Partido Socialista Obrero Español).\n\nPolitical activism repeatedly put Iglesias in jail, first in 1882 after a strike and the last time in 1910 when he was sixty. He always rejected offers of clemency, and as an ex-convict some employers would deny him work. More than once, only the newspaper \"The Socialist\" he had founded on 12 March 1886, and his wage as its printer, editor and director, kept him from starving.\n\nOn 12 August 1888 the Spanish General Workers Union (UGT) was founded in Barcelona, its name proposed by Iglesias.\n\nThe Congress of 1889 named him president of its national committee, a position he held for 36 years until his death. In 1890, when the day of struggle was celebrated for the first time in Madrid on 1 May, he headed an impressive demonstration. He led the representation to the Government of demands for legislative reforms, such as the 8-hour working day. In 1905 he first joined the City Council of Madrid.\n\nRepublicans had opposed Iglesias, but a Republican-Socialist alliance paved the way for the 1910 elections to make him the first socialist deputy in the Spanish Parliament. Worsening health prevented him attending many parliamentary sessions after 1914, limiting his parliamentary career. 1923 saw him elected a deputy for the last time.\n\nDespite his sparse theoretical background, he produced many excellent intellectual works in Spain and internationally. He published more than two thousand newspaper articles in Spain between his first, \"The War\", on 5 December 1870 in \"Solidarity\", and the last, \"The Working Class Will Win\" in \"Freedom\" on 5 December 1925.\n\nIglesias was one of the best propagandists among Spanish socialist idealists; few workers' leaders wrote so much of interest. Characterised by vehement defense and furious attack, his works make an ethically coherent call for regeneration and hope.\n\nOn his death, an office drawer contained a parting gift of 1,000 pesetas from Iglesias for \"The Socialist\", to which he had been linked from its birth. There were widespread posthumous tributes to him. With Government authorization, more than 150,000 workers accompanied his funeral procession to the civil cemetery in Madrid.\n\nThe Spanish liberal philosopher José Ortega Y Gasset praised him as a \"lay saint.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3143133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3143133", "title": "Quare impedit", "text": "Quare impedit\n\nIn English law, quare impedit was a writ commencing a common law action for deciding a disputed right of presentation to a benefice, a right known as an advowson. It was typically brought by a patron against a bishop who refuses to appoint the patron's nominee as a priest.\n\nIt obtained its name from the words of the ancient writ that started the proceeding until the 19th century. This writ was directed to the sheriff, instructing him to command the defendant to permit the plaintiff to present an appropriate candidate, or else to show \"why he hinders\" () the plaintiff in the exercise of his rights. The writ of \"quare impedit\" was one of the few real actions preserved by the Real Property Limitation Act 1833, and survived up to 1860. It was abolished by the Common Law Procedure Act 1860, and proceedings in \"quare impedit\" were changed to make them as similar as possible to those in other real actions.\n\nThe defendant bishop would need to fully state upon the pleadings the grounds on which he refuses. \"Quare impedit\" was a remedy exclusively of a patron; a nominee's remedy was by the proceeding called \"duplex querela\" available only in the ecclesiastical court. The action would not be barred till the expiration of sixty years, or of three successive incumbencies adverse to the plaintiff's right, whichever period was the longer (Real Property Limitation Act, 1833, 29).\n\nWhere the patron of a benefice was a Roman Catholic, one of the universities would present in his place (1689, i Will. & Mary, sess. i, c. 29). By 13 Anne c. 13 (1714), during the pendency of a \"quare impedit\" to which either of the universities was a party, the court had power to administer an oath for the discovery of any secret trust, and to order the \"cestui que\" trust to repeat and subscribe a declaration against transubstantiation. In Scotland, the effect of a \"quare impedit\" could be attained by action of declarator. In the United States, owing to the difference of ecclesiastical organization, the action was never known.\n"}
{"id": "38035894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38035894", "title": "Red scarf", "text": "Red scarf\n\nThe red scarf is a neckerchief worn by Young Pioneers of several countries during the socialist (“communist”) era. In the Soviet Union it was known as \"pionerskiy galstuk\" (пионерский галстук, i. e. pioneer’s neckerchief), in Vietnam as \"khăn quàng đỏ\" (red scarf), in China as \"hong lingjin\" (紅領巾, red scarf), in Cuba as \"pañoleta roja\" (red scarf), and in Hungary as \"úttörőnyakkendő\" (pioneer’s neckerchief). Blue scarves were also used by youngsters before coming of age to wear the red one, and are still seen in some countries.\n\nIt remains in use by the Young Pioneers of China, Vietnam, North Korea, Laos and Cuba, and — unofficially, on occasions — in many other countries, such as Russia, Venezuela, Zimbabwe, Belarus, Ukraine, Finland etc. In China, the scarf is emblematic of blood of revolutionary martyrs, as recalled in Red Scarf Park and the title of Red Scarf Girl by Ji-li Jiang about her experiences during the Cultural Revolution. In Cuba, the scarf is worn by schoolchildren from first to sixth grade.\n\nA red scarf was introduced into the Republic of Korea Air Force as a device to aid visual location of downed South Korean airmen, it became and remains an iconic item of uniform in the Republic of Korea Air Force.\n"}
{"id": "41044167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41044167", "title": "Reunion, Florida", "text": "Reunion, Florida\n\nReunion is a resort and master-planned community located within Four Corners in Osceola County, Florida, near Walt Disney World Resort. Developed by Bobby Ginn and the Ginn Family, owner and developer of several resort communities throughout the World. The Ginn Family also owned the NASCAR Team (formed by Thomas Ginn) called Ginn Racing (Merged with Dale Earnhardt Inc or DEI for short), Reunion is part of the Orlando–Kissimmee Metropolitan Statistical Area. Reunion is situated on 2,226 acres and is a planned Development of Regional Impact (DRI) planned for 6,233 residential dwelling units, 1,574 hotel rooms, 140,000 SF of office space and 484,000 SF of retail space according to the Osceola County Planning Office.\nThe resort presents an upscale vacation community for short-term guests and long-term residents; and includes comprehensive leisure facilities, restaurants, clubhouse and 5-acre private water park.\n\nReunion Resort has three PGA golf courses, each individually designed by and named for Jack Nicklaus, Tom Watson and Arnold Palmer. The Resort hosted the Ginn Open, an LPGA Tour event, from 2006 to 2008.\n\nReunion Resort has several upscale amenities such as a five-acre water park with a winding lazy river, two-story water slide and children's interactive play area. Reunion has a spa, a tennis complex, biking and walking trails as well as a fitness center and fitness programs.\n\nReunion Resort is currently managed by Salamander Hotels and Resorts under the leadership of Sheila Johnson.\n\nReunion Resort's portfolio of luxury real estate comprises condominiums and estate homes, many of which are offered as short stay vacation rentals directly from the resort or via independent owners and property managers. A smaller number of properties are occupied as permanent residencies.\nThe Bear's Den Park is 'Jack Nicklaus branded' recent addition to the resort, offering two additional gated sub divisions within the golf community. Phase 2 of the Bear's Den Park is deed restricted as residential only, the first of its kind within Reunion Resort.\n\n aired on the Golf Channel in 2007 and featured competitors from past seasons competing for PGA and LPGA tour exemptions at Ginn Reunion Resort.\n\n"}
{"id": "22929540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22929540", "title": "Sahara Forest Project", "text": "Sahara Forest Project\n\nThe Sahara Forest Project is a scheme that aims to provide fresh water, food and renewable energy in hot, arid regions as well as re-vegetating areas of uninhabited desert. This proposal combines saltwater-cooled greenhouses with solar power technologies, either directly using Photovoltaic (PV) or indirectly using concentrated solar power (CSP) and technologies for desert revegetation. It is claimed that these technologies together will create a sustainable and profitable source of energy, food, vegetation and water. The founding team behind the Sahara Forest Project was composed of experts from Seawater Greenhouse Ltd, Exploration Architecture, Max Fordham Consulting Engineers and the Bellona Foundation. The scale of the proposed scheme is such that very large quantities of seawater would be evaporated. By using locations below sea level, pumping costs would be eliminated. A project in Qatar has been completed, and pilot projects in Jordan and Tunisia have been initiated.\n\nSahara Forest Project's first pilot facility was built in Qatar and officially opened in December 2012 by then the Heir Apparent Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani. The results were better than expected. The results have guided next steps, namely a test and demonstration center providing the first commercial-scale of the full Sahara Forest Project value chain.\n\nOn 22 June 2014, the Sahara Forest Project signed an agreement with The Royal Norwegian Embassy in Amman for establishing a Sahara Forest Project Launch Station and related activities in Jordan. The Launch Station will be the first step towards a full-scale Sahara Forest Project Centre in Aqaba, Jordan. The Launch Station will contain a saltwater-cooled greenhouse in combination with solar power technologies and facilities for outdoor cultivation and revegetation. The Qatar plant was dismantled in 2016, and is expected to be operational in Jordan in 2017 after being shipped.\n\nJoakim Hauge (born July 1973) is a Norwegian biologist who is the Chief Executive Officer for The Sahara Forest Project. He has previously been advising national and international institutions such as the EU Biofuels Technology Platform.\n\nHe has lectured widely on the subject of innovation and sustainable solutions to combat climate changes and delivered talks at UN side events at the Climate Negotiations in Qatar 2012 (COP18 Doha, Chatham House) and events organized by The Economist. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1393943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1393943", "title": "Senatus consultum ultimum", "text": "Senatus consultum ultimum\n\nSenatus consultum ultimum (\"final decree of the Senate\" or Final Act, often abbreviated SCU), more properly senatus consultum de re publica defendenda (\"decree of the Senate about defending the Republic\") is the modern term (based on Caesar's wording at \"Bell. Civ.\" 1.5) given to a decree of the Roman Senate during the late Roman Republic passed in times of emergency. The form was usually \"consules darent operam ne quid detrimenti res publica caperet\" or \"videant consules ne quid res publica detrimenti capiat\" (\"let the consuls see to it that the state suffer no harm\"). It was first officially decreed prior to the fall of Gaius Gracchus in 121 BC, and subsequently at several other points, including during Lepidus' march on Rome in 77 BC, the Conspiracy of Catiline in 63 BC, and before Julius Caesar crossed the Rubicon in 49 BC. The \"senatus consultum ultimum\" effectively replaced the disused dictatorship, by removing limitations on the magistrates' powers to preserve the state. After the rise of the Principate, there was little need for the Senate to issue the decree again.\n\nFrom around the year 500 BC, the dictatorship was the main measure of emergency power in the Roman Republic. In a \"senatus consultum\", the Roman Senate would authorize the consuls to nominate a dictator who received \"imperium magnum\", great power to act in a time of emergency (usually military) until the crisis was over (but no longer than half a year). The dictatorship marked the sole exception from the rules of collegiality and responsibility, meaning the dictator was not legally liable for official actions. This changed around the year 300 BC, when, against its very nature, the dictatorship was placed under the public \"provocatio\", meaning that the Plebeian Council could be called to counter-act executive actions of the dictator. As a result, the practice was altered and later dropped altogether after 202 BC.\n\nThe \"senatus consultum ultimum\", which replaced the dictatorship in the late 2nd century, does not have a specific name in the sources, where it is usually mentioned \"by quoting what was obviously its opening advisory statements to the magistrate who had it passed\". It is by that specific phrase the SCU can be traced through the years. Its short name in research literature derives from a section in Caesar's \"Commentarii de Bello Civili\", where he writes:\nSince this is the shortest mention of the decree available, \"the label [...] seems to have stuck\". The actual wording of the decree was however longer, Gerhard Plaumann gives it as \"de ea re ita censuere: uti [...] rem publicam defendant operamque dent \"(or \"videant\") \"ne quid res publica detrimenti capiat\", having distilled this from a number of sources writing about the decree. He therefore argues that \"senatus consultum de re publica defendenda\" or \"quasi-dictatorship\" would be more fitting terms. It is the vague nature of the phrase that left the decree open for attacks over its legality. The word \"ultimum\" (final) does not indicate it to be the last decree passed by a senate or that it constituted an ultimatum, but rather that the decree was viewed (and for the most time used) only as a \"last resort\".\n\nIn reaction to the redundancy of the dictatorship, the senate party (or \"optimates\") were in need of a new emergency power that would not fall under the public rights of \"provocatio\" and \"intercessio\" (or Veto). The \"populares\" under Tiberius Gracchus had challenged the power of the senate and began with a program of land reform. Because he was a Tribune of the Plebs, the senate needed extraordinary power to stop him, since Gracchus was able to appeal his demands directly to the people and bring them into law.\n\nAfter Tiberius Gracchus had won re-election as tribune, rumour spread he aimed at becoming king. Upon hearing this the senate was in uproar, with a majority favoring to intervene with violent measures, while one of the incumbent consuls, Publius Mucius Scaevola fought against it, doubting such a step would be constitutional. The senate nevertheless passed the \"final decree\". Scaevola then refused to carry out any violent steps before Gracchus and his followers resorted to violence first. To this, Gracchus' cousin, Publius Cornelius Scipio Nasica, the Pontifex Maximus, reacted by shouting \"qui rem publicam salvam esse vult, me sequatur\" (\"let every man who wishes the republic to be safe, follow me!\") and led the senators against Tiberius, who was killed in the resulting confrontation.\n\nSome researchers, such as Golden and Lintott/Momigliano, have doubted that the example of 133 BC constitutes a SCU, since the highest magistrate, the consul, who was addressed by the decree, did not act upon it. Plaumann has argued that this follows the false logic that the decree would only be valid once the magistrate carries it out, while in his opinion a reluctance to abide by it is possible. The killing of Tiberius Gracchus was in this case nevertheless not covered by the SCU since it was not the consul who carried it out. Chen Kefeng has pointed out that \"in comparison with the later ones, [this SCU] was uncommon and in inconformity to the orthodox formula due to the un-cooperation of the highest magistrate\".\n\nFollowing the precedent set in 133, several attempts were made by people generally associated with the \"populares\" party to protect the public rights of \"provocatio\" against executive power. Following the example of the \"leges Porciae\" from the beginning of the century, the \"lex Sempronia de capite civis\", initiated by Tiberius' brother Gaius Gracchus following his election to the post of Tribune of the Plebs in 123 BC, made it impossible to carry out capital punishment only ratified by the senate. The \"lex Sempronia\" can be seen as a direct reaction to the fate of Tiberius Gracchus and his followers, who were tried and sentenced in a special tribunal with powers of capital punishment.\n\nFollowing Gaius Gracchus' second term in the office of Tribune of the Plebs, Lucius Opimius, a strict conservative, was elected consul, determined to oppose Gaius' proposals of land reform and the distribution of Roman citizenship to all Latin citizens. When, on the day that Opimius had planned to repeal the laws of Gaius Gracchus, one of his attendants was slain in a scuffle between the opposing camps, this gave the consul the pretext to act. The senate passed the \"senatus consultum ultimum\" and the next day, Opimius gathered the senators and their supporters to rid the city of Gaius Gracchus, who was killed in the subsequent battle.\n\nAs a consequence, Opimius was tried \"quod indemnatos cives in carcerem coniecisset\" (\"for imprisoning a citizen without trial\"), but was acquitted. With this legal precedent, the SCU as a measure standing above public \"provocatio\" entered the \"mos maiorum\".\n\nIn the year 100 BC, when Gaius Marius held his sixth consulship, his ally Lucius Appuleius Saturninus, tribune for the second time, pushed for reforms like those of the Gracchi. The senate opposed and violence broke out. The high chamber then passed the SCU and urged Marius to act, which he did to restore public order, even though he was generally allied with the \"populares\". Unlike Opimius, Marius decided to detain the insurrectionists in the Curia Hostilia and leave their fate up to debate. However, Saturninus and his followers were lynched by the mob.\n\nMarcus Aemilius Lepidus, once an ally of Lucius Cornelius Sulla, was elected to the consulship in 78 BC. He then placed himself firmly in the camp of the \"populares\", clashing with his fellow consul Quintus Lutatius Catulus. The two camps came close to a civil war, so Lepidus was sent to administer the province of Transalpine Gaul. He returned however a year later with his army and a group of followers. The senate passed the SCU which was then acted out mainly by Catulus, now a proconsul, and Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus, not by the consuls themselves.\n\nIn early 63 BC, shortly after Marcus Tullius Cicero took office as consul, Julius Caesar urged Titus Labienus, a tribune who had lost his uncle during the turmoils of 100 BC, to accuse Gaius Rabirius of participating in the murder of Saturninus and his followers. Caesar's true motive was to undermine the authority of the SCU, limiting its power and defending the sovereignty of the people against the senatorial interference made possible by the decree. The importance of the trial is illustrated by the fact that Cicero himself, even though he was incumbent consul, decided to lead the defense for Rabirius. The trial was carried out in the obsolete form of \"perduellio\", with Caesar and his cousin Lucius Julius Caesar presiding. Cicero argued that even though Rabirius was a \"privatus\" (private man) and therefore not the addressee of the decree, he still had the duty as a Roman citizen to defend the state against its enemies, resorting to the ancient Roman principle of self-help. Labienus and Caesar argued the contrary: Even if the SCU gave the power to execute capital punishment, it should only be carried out by the highest magistrates. Rabirius was convicted but escaped punishment through a ruse during the appeal before the Concilium Plebis. The authority of the decree was nevertheless shaken and in no further cases did private persons act out a SCU.\n\nDuring the year of his consulate, Cicero thwarted a conspiracy led by Lucius Sergius Catilina, aimed at overthrowing the Roman state. Equipped with the SCU that the senate had passed on October 21, Cicero held four speeches against Catiline (the Catiline Orations), driving the conspirator from the city. Catiline's supporters however started turmoil within the city while Catiline marched against it with an army. He had also tried to involve the Allobroges in his fight, but Cicero worked with the Gauls and presented Catiline's letters to them as evidence before the senate. While the conspirators were held prisoners, the senate went on to discuss their fate. Probably due to the experience of the trial against Rabirius, Cicero, who could have acted on his own under the authority given to him by the SCU, chose to seek broader support from his fellow senators just as Gaius Marius had done in 100 BC. After the majority of the house had spoken in favor of executing the culprits, Julius Caesar swayed many by suggesting that they should be exiled to various Italian cities until the revolt was over and they could be tried in court. He argued that executing the conspirators would break the \"lex Sempronia\". Here again Caesar tried to further limit the power given by the decree by putting it under the control of \"provocatio\" laws. Cato the Younger subsequently convinced the house to impose the death penalty. The conspirators were then taken to the Tullianum prison and strangled. While Cicero received the honorary title \"Pater Patriae\" for his actions, which were highly popular with the public, he still feared retribution for executing Roman citizens without trial.\n\nAfter Caesar's consulate in 59 BC, he helped Publius Clodius Pulcher into the office of tribune of the plebs before setting off into his provinces. Clodius, who had a long-standing feud with Cicero, used his power to ban Cicero from the city, claiming he had broken the \"lex Sempronia\" by executing the conspirators without formal trial. Caesar's long set goal to bring the SCU back under the practice of \"provocatio\" seemed successful, until Cicero returned 15 months later, celebrated by the people.\n\nOn 19 January 52 BC, a SCU was passed by the senate after public opinion had turned against the senators due to riots following the death of Publius Clodius Pulcher, who was murdered the day before by Titus Annius Milo when on his way back to Rome. The decree was aimed against the tribunes Q. Pompeius Rufus, T. Munatius Plancus and C. Sallustius Crispus, allies of Clodius', who had lit his corpse on fire inside the curia, burning it to the ground. When Pompey was declared \"consul sine collega\" two days later, the decree was obsolete, since the imminent emergency (the riots had made elections impossible) was over.\n\nDuring his last years in Gaul, Caesar rightly feared the senate might put him to trial for his breaches of law while he was consul. He therefore aimed to run for consul once again without having to enter the city as a private man (\"privatus\"). To do this, the senate needed to allow him to run for the office in absence (\"in absentia\"), a matter promoted by his loyal tribune of the plebs, Gaius Scribonius Curio (the younger). Following fierce debates over the course of the year 50 BC, a minority of the senate party had symbolically handed Pompey a sword on 1 December 50, in a plea that he would raise an army to defend Rome against Caesar, should the latter attack the city when his demands were not met.\n\nAt the beginning of the new year, on 1 January 49, Curio returned to Rome from Caesar, bringing with him a letter, which Caesar's new tribunes Marcus Antonius and Lucius Cassius read aloud in the senate. Afterwards, the senate once again voted on a motion to strip Caesar of his army and have him returned to Rome, which carried. Negotiations between the two camps followed, led by Cicero, who was waiting outside the city limits for his triumph. After the negotiations had not brought a solution, the senate repeated its vote on 7 January, which was immediately met with a veto by the two tribunes. It was in this situation that the senate passed the \"senatus consultum ultimum\" to break the tribunes' resistance and act against Caesar, at the same time declaring him an enemy of the state (\"hostis\"). Being warned about the fate of their predecessors in office, the two tribunes of the plebs fled the city the same night. Caesar got word of the SCU on 10 January while in Ravenna, crossing the Rubicon and taking Ariminum the next day, where he met Antonius and Cassius. Here, he addressed his troops and used the tribunes as living proof to legitimise his actions, calling the SCU a \"new example\" (\"novum exemplum\") not in accordance with Roman Law. He argued that not even Sulla had dared to touch the right of a tribune to cast his veto, as the senate had done now under the threat of armed violence (\"armis\"). With these events, the Great Roman Civil War had begun.\n\nThere are several additional examples of the decree being issued during the later years of the Republic. The \"Oxford Classical Dictionary\" gives four more examples of the SCU: In 62 BC against Quintus Caecilius Metellus Nepos and Caesar, in 48 BC against Marcus Caelius Rufus, in 47 BC against Publius Cornelius Dolabella and in 40 BC against Quintus Salvidienus Rufus. Plaumann names the SCU of 47 BC as an exceptional case, since its addressee was Mark Antony, Caesar's \"magister equitum\". Plaumann also writes about two SCUs in 88 BC, against public disturbances which were eventually resolved by Sulla. Another SCU could have been issued in 87 BC, when the consul Gnaeus Octavius acted against his colleague Lucius Cornelius Cinna. In 43 BC, after the assassination of Julius Caesar and the beginning of hostilities between Octavianus and Marcus Antonius, a total of four SCUs can be found in the sources, of which authors like Gerhard Plaumann, whose study on the subject is still considered canonical, can make little sense. The SCU against Salvidienus Rufus in 40 BC seems to have been a matter of pure obeisance towards the \"triumviri\". It appears that the Principate with its higher political stability rendered the use of an emergency decree such as the \"senatus consultum ultimum\" obsolete.\n\nAs outlined above, representatives of the \"populares\" faction tried to question the validity of the decree over the entire course of its 90-year existence, without success. Among them, one of the strongest opponents was Julius Caesar, who did not put the decree into question altogether, but its ability to override the popular rights of \"intercessio\" and \"provocatio\". He was later able to use this stance as an excuse to bring about the Civil War that would bring him the dictatorship, a reminiscence of the exact institution the SCU had once replaced. In summary, the SCU constituted an emergency decree with which the consuls, backed by the senate, were able to \"claim dictatorial force\". As with the dictatorship before, no positive action necessarily followed from the passing of the decree. The SCU could however be perceived as favourable to a dictator considering the Roman constitution, since it distributed power only to the highest elected officials and followed the principle of collegiality. Unlike the dictatorship, the SCU was used almost exclusively in domestic conflicts. The debate over its legality continues in the research literature. Some - like Theodor Mommsen and Andrew Lintott - follow Cicero in describing the decree as a consequence of the Roman principle of \"self-help\" and therefore trace its legality to the very core of the Roman constitution. Others, such as Kefeng have argued that it contradicts basic principles of the constitution, going so far as to say \"that the emergence of the \"senatus consultum ultimum\" is a symbol of the decline of the traditional constitution.\"\n\n\nAbbreviations for ancient sources follow the list given in \"Der Neue Pauly.\" Enzyklopädie der Antike (DNP). Edited by Hubert Cancik. Metzler: Stuttgart 1996–2003 (16 volumes in 19 sub-volumes plus 3 supplement volumes). .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26723213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26723213", "title": "Sentinel (FBI)", "text": "Sentinel (FBI)\n\nSentinel is a software case management system developed by the US FBI with the aim to replace digital and paper processes with purely digital workflows during investigations. There was a previous failed project called Virtual Case File.\n\nThe project started in 2006 with a $425 million budget. After several delays, new leadership, a slightly bigger budget, and adoption of agile software development methodology, Sentinel was completed under budget and was in use agency-wide on July 1 2012.\n\nAn audit of the program in 2014, two years after completion, revealed ongoing issues with Sentinel's search functionality, with only 42 percent of surveyed FBI employees indicating that they often found results they needed. In spite of this, the audit was broadly positive, and found that most FBI employees reported that Sentinel enhanced their ability to enter and share case information. \n"}
{"id": "19030472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19030472", "title": "Standoff distance", "text": "Standoff distance\n\nStandoff distance is a security term that refers to measures to prevent unscreened and potentially threatening people and vehicles from approaching within a certain distance of a building, car, or other shelter, roadblock or other location, or to a person such as a law enforcement officer or VIP, or to a friendly area / location. \"See Power projection, Identification friend or foe, Display behavior\"\n\nStandoff distance may be ensured using fixed physical barriers such as fences or bollards; temporary placement of items to block access (e.g., using law enforcement vehicles or police tape to block a road or bridge); physical features other than barriers (these may appear innocuous, such as the White House lawn or adding an ornamental pond); armed guards or positions (e.g., a police sniper in overwatch); or deploying police officers with carbines such as an M-4, instead of just a service sidearm. When police officers have carbines the standoff distance is increased because an attacker who poses a threat can be fired upon from greater distances.\n\nStandoff distance is used when a violent criminal is in a fortified position, when hostages are under armed threat from kidnappers, when a bomb is believed to have been placed, or when other unspecified dangers may be lurking. It is a measure of distance used by government, law enforcement, or military operatives handling the situation to protect their own agents and civilians from physical injury or death while the situation is resolved.\n\nWhen an armed and violent criminal is sheltered in a location not easily reachable by a tranquilizer round or disabling shot - or extreme prejudice ammunition, if authorized by mission leaders - police, military, and counterterrorism officers maintain distance (often out of the direct line of sight and behind cover) while often using a megaphone to call for backup, the arrest of the subject, or to take him/her into custody. Sniper coverage is used often in these situations, and standard procedure for officers or operatives (or citizens taking part in a citizen's arrest) is to call for heavily armored backup while maintaining cover themselves. In the wake of active shooter scenarios, some law enforcement agencies have switched to moving in on the suspects, to prevent the gunmen from harming civilians. Therapeutic interventions or diplomatic techniques may be used to talk down the suspects or identified threats and assailants.\n\nIn a hostage situation, the primary goal is the safe recovery of the hostages, who are usually held under threat of violence or other prolonged physical harm (starvation, poisoning, bleeding, illness) from kidnappers. Thus the situation is treated similarly to situations with other armed attackers under cover, but with even more caution. snipers are often employed to attempt to provide leverage against the hostage-takers or to fire at the hostage takers if an imminent risk of harm to the hostages is identified. \n\nUnless all kidnappers can be hit and killed by sniper gunfire almost simultaneously, generally extreme prejudice (e.g., shooting at gunmen)is not used as freely due to the danger of other kidnappers killing the hostages, as in the 1972 Munich example. \n\nThis is not true in lone wolf situations, where the hostage taker is often shot by a snipers with armor-piercing or wall-piercing ammunition if talk or negotiation resolution is impossible. In all situations the preferred method is to talk the kidnappers into releasing the hostages for ransom or otherwise talking them down using therapeutic or diplomatic techniques, to protect the safety of the hostages and, ideally, have the suspect surrender peacefully.\n\nWith bomb threats, the standoff distance used by law enforcement officers depends on the size and type of the bomb. \nThe smallest standoff distances, about 70 feet from the threat, are used for small pipe bombs with about five pounds of explosives. A human suicide bomber with about 20 pounds of explosives strapped to his/her body has a standoff distance of 110 feet. A briefcase or suitcase bomb with about 50 pounds of explosives has a 150 foot standoff distance. Larger car bombs or truck bombs have a much larger standoff distance, as the blast radius is bigger. A car bomb with a 500 pound bomb has a 320 foot standoff distance. A small delivery truck-based truck bomb with a 1,000 pound bomb has a 640 foot standoff distance. A huge 18-wheeler truck-sized truck bomb with over 60,000 pounds of explosives has a 1,570 foot standoff distance.\n\nStandoff distance is also intended to deter terrorists from using car bombs by making it more difficult for them to cause catastrophic damage. In the wake of the Oklahoma City bombing, many high-risk federal buildings began enforcing standoff distances. It is based on the concept that a blast shock load is essentially a high-pressure front that moves out radially and decays very quickly - because blast falloff is thus often more exponential than linear (indeed radial - any given explosive must cover a circular-shaped area but blast power generally only increases linearly with explosive strength), any standoff distance helps increases survival chances for passersby and minimizes danger, though shrapnel mitigates this effect if present. \n\nHydraulic roadblocks (sometimes wedge-shaped), or bollards can be raised to block approaching vehicles; these can be designed to prevent even a heavy, fast-moving truck from getting through. Jersey barriers and concrete planters filled with dirt have also been used to maintain separation between screened and unscreened traffic. Certain infrastructure at risk of terrorist attack, such as bridges, may not be well-suited to standoff distances since their purpose is for traffic to travel along them.\n\n"}
{"id": "28456394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28456394", "title": "Supreme Ruler: Cold War", "text": "Supreme Ruler: Cold War\n\nSupreme Ruler: Cold War was developed by BattleGoat Studios and was announced August 19, 2010 by Paradox Interactive at the 2010 Gamescom video gaming convention held in Cologne, Germany and released on July 19, 2011. It is set during the Cold War Era from the end of World War II to the early 1990s. The main Campaign allows the player to be the head of either the U.S. or the USSR, while the Sandbox game mode can be played from any nation's point of view.\n\nThis is BattleGoat's third title in the Supreme Ruler series, following future-based titles Supreme Ruler 2010 (published in 2005) and Supreme Ruler 2020 (published in 2008). The gameplay features a new sophisticated Sphere of Influence system, as well as the usual military, economic and diplomatic simulation of the previous games.\n\nListed gameplay features:\n\n"}
{"id": "4051009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4051009", "title": "The Rights of Minorities in the Islamic State", "text": "The Rights of Minorities in the Islamic State\n\nThe Rights of Minorities in the Islamic State () is a book written by Sayyid Abul Ala Maududi, published in Lahore, Pakistan in 1954.\n\nIn it Maududi references the millet system and its organization along communal lines as a possible way the Islamic state would deal with minority rights according to the sharia concept of dhimma.\n"}
{"id": "401533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401533", "title": "Unity for Human Rights Party", "text": "Unity for Human Rights Party\n\nThe Unity for Human Rights Party (, ) is a social-liberal political party in Albania supporting the Greek minority. Founded in 1992, it represents Albania's minorities and is mainly related to the Greek minority, and is the political continuation of Omonoia. It works with Omonoia, MEGA and other Greek parties in Albania at national elections, under a Greek bloc. The party is currently led by Vangjel Dule, who holds the party's only seat in Parliament.\n\nThe party first contested national elections in 1992, when it received 2.7% of the national vote and won two seats. The 1996 elections saw the party increase its share of the vote to 4%, winning three seats. Although the party's vote share dropped to 3.2% in the early elections in 1997, it gained an additional MP, winning four seats. However, another drop in the party's support in the 2001 elections saw it reduced to three seats. Despite again increasing its vote share to 4.1% in the 2005 elections, the party lost another MP as it was reduced to two seats. The 2009 elections saw the party reduced to one seat.\n\nIn the 2011 local elections the party lost its councillors in Gjirokastër and Delvinë and one of its two municipal seats in Sarandë, maintained its seat Shkodër and gained one of the seats in Korçë in addition to the mayoralty in nine communes. In the 2013 parliamentary elections it retained its single seat, running as part of the Alliance for a European Albania headed by the Socialist Party.\n\nIn the 2015 local elections the party failed to win any mayoralties, losing seats to other Greek parties such as MEGA/EEM,as well as the Socialist Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "49999751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49999751", "title": "Young Swedes SDU", "text": "Young Swedes SDU\n\nYoung Swedes SDU, alternatively \"Sweden Democratic Youth\", have been the youth section within the Sweden Democrats since 1 October 2015. The new youth section was founded after the mother party broke ties with their original youth organization after the organisation was accused of racism and ties with extremist groups. The spokesperson of the organization is Tobias Andersson. According to Jimmie Åkesson, the party chairman of the Sweden Democrats, the main purpose of the Young Swedes is to \"attract young people to vote for the party\" during election seasons, and to \"help regrow the party\" between election seasons. The group uses a crossbow called the Engelbrektsbåge as their symbol and they describe themselves as democratic and socially conservative with a nationalistic base.\n"}
{"id": "28730320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28730320", "title": "Zgharta Liberation Army", "text": "Zgharta Liberation Army\n\nThe Zgharta Liberation Army or Zghartawi Liberation Army – ZLA (French: \"Armée de Liberation de Zgharta\" – ALZ) was the paramilitary branch of the Lebanese Marada Movement during the Lebanese Civil War. The militia was formed in 1967 on President Suleiman Frangieh's instructions as the Marada Brigade (also translated as Mardaite Brigade, Arabic: \"Liwa' al-Marada\") seven years before the war began. The force was initially commanded by Suleiman Franjieh's son, Tony Frangieh. It operated mainly out of Tripoli and Zgharta, but it also fought in Beirut. The ZLA fought against various Palestinian and Lebanese Muslim militias as well as the Lebanese Forces in Bsharri and Ehden.\n\nThe Al-Marada's military wing was secretly formed in 1967 and at the outbreak of the war in April 1975, they numbered just 700-800 men armed with obsolete firearms acquired in the black market. They first came to light on 17 August 1970 at Beirut, when Tony Frangieh forced his way into the Parliament House leading a group of armed militiamen in order to secure his father's election to the Presidency – an illegal move that the Lebanese official authorities proved powerless to prevent.\n\nOften described as a Mafia-style gangster organization rather than a true political party, the Al-Marada/ZLA seems to have never devised a coherent program or adhered to a particular ideology. Although conservative in outlook, sharing with the other rightist Christian parties similar viewpoints regarding the Palestine Liberation Organization's (PLO) military presence in Lebanon and the preservation of the pre-war Christian-dominated political status quo, they were generally regarded as a corps of feudal retainers infamous for their brutality and corruption.\n\nStructured along semi-conventional lines into mechanized infantry, 'commando', signals, medical and military police branches, the ZLA had a distinct regional orientation, since its military HQ was established at the small town of Ehden near Zgharta, where the latter residents spend the summer. While their membership and command structure was predominantly Maronite, they did included a number of Greek-Catholics and Greek-Orthodox into their ranks. They initially allied themselves with the other Christian rightist parties' militias – Kataeb Regulatory Forces (KRF), Tigers Militia, Guardians of the Cedars (GoC), Al-Tanzim, Lebanese Youth Movement (LYM), and Tyous Team of Commandos (TTC) –, operating mainly in and out of Tripoli, and other areas of northern Lebanon, being engaged mostly in fighting local Muslim militias, but also fought in East Beirut. Thanks to the secret support provided by the Lebanese Army, by January 1976 the Frangieh-controlled militia ranks had swollen to 2,400 troops, a total comprising 800 full-time fighters and 1,500 irregulars. At its height in the late 1970s, the Al-Marada mustered some 3,500 men and women equipped with modern small-arms.\n\nPrior to the war, the ZLA militia initially received covert support from the Lebanese Army, who besides providing training, weapons and ammunition, also lent to the ZLA sophisticated mobile communications equipment. Weapons, vehicles, and other non-lethal equipments were initially procured on the international black market or drawn from Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) reserves and Internal Security Forces (ISF) police stations. After June 1978, they were financed and armed mainly by Syria.\n\nAl-Marada/ZLA militiamen were provided with a variety of small-arms, including Lee-Enfield and MAS-36 bolt action rifles, MAS-49, M1 Garand (or its Italian-produced copy, the Beretta Model 1952), M14 and SKS semi-automatic rifles, plus MAT-49 and Heckler & Koch MP5 submachine guns. Assault rifles and carbines consisted of M16A1, FN FAL, Heckler & Koch G3, Vz. 58, AK-47 and AKM assault rifles (other variants included the Zastava M70, Zastava M80, and former East German MPi assault rifles). Shotguns consisted of Winchester Model 1200, Franchi SPAS-12, and Franchi SPAS-15 semi-automatic models. Sniper rifles were also used, and models comprised the Dragunov SVD-63, Tabuk, Zastava M76/M78, and SSG 82. Handguns included MAB PA-15 pistols, FN P35, SIG-Sauer P220, and Glock 19 pistols.\n\nSquad weapons consisted of Chatellerault FM Mle 1924/29, Bren Mk. I .303 (7.7mm), FN MAG, Rheinmetall MG 3, VZ 59, Zastava M77, and PK/PKM (variants included the Chinese Type 80 and the Yugoslav Zastava M84) light machine guns. Heavier Browning M2HB .50 Cal, DShK, Type 77 and NSV (or its Yugoslav variant, the Zastava M87) machine guns were employed as platoon and company weapons, but could also be found mounted on APCs and technicals.\n\nPortable anti-tank weapons and guided missile systems were also widely employed, comprising RPG-7 and M80 Zolja anti-tank rocket launchers, M2 Carl Gustaf 84mm and M67 90mm anti-tank recoilless rifles, and MILAN and BGM-71 TOW anti-tank missiles. Crew-served and indirect fire weapons included L16 81mm mortars, plus SPG-9 73mm, B-10 82mm, M40 106mm and L6 Wombat 120mm recoilless rifles (often mounted on technicals).\n\nThe Al-Marada fielded since January 1976 a mechanized corps made of ex-Lebanese Army M113 armored personnel carriers and gun-trucks or 'Technicals'. The latter consisted of commandeered Land-Rover series II-III, Toyota Land Cruiser (J40), Dodge Power Wagon W200, GMC Sierra Custom K25/K30 and Chevrolet C-10 Cheyenne light pickups fitted with heavy machine guns, recoilless rifles and anti-aircraft autocannons. For logistical support, the ZLA relied on Range Rover first generation Sport utility vehicles, Toyota Land Cruiser (J42) hardtop light pickups, Chevrolet Series 50 light-duty, Dodge F600 medium-duty and GMC C7500 heavy-duty cargo trucks.\n\nYugoslav Zastava M55 20mm, Soviet ZPU (ZPU-1, ZPU-2, ZPU-4) 14.5mm, and ZU-23-2 23mm AA autocannons (mostly mounted on technicals and heavier transport trucks) were employed in both air defense and direct fire support roles. These light Anti-Aircraft pieces were either seized from Lebanese Army stocks, acquired on the black market or provided by Syria. \n\nThey also maintained a small 'naval' branch equipped with some Zodiac rubber inflatable boats and converted civilian fishing craft armed with heavy machine guns and anti-aircraft autocannons, being used as a shock force for both military and barratry operations.\n\n\nThe Frangieh clan established in 1978 their own fief in the northern Lebanon, the so-called 'Northern Canton', which comprised the districts of Tripoli, Koura, Zgharta, Bsharri and parts of Batroun. The Canton was run by the Al-Marada's own civil administration of 80 public servants, who were also entrusted of running the militia's own television and radio service, \"The Voice of the Marada\" (Arabic: \"Iza'at Sawt al-Marada\") or \"La Voix des Maradah\" in French. Initially funded by Suleiman Frangieh's own personal fortune, the Al-Marada/ZLA also resorted to racketeering, with additional revenues being generated by the illegal ports of Chekka – Lebanon's industrial hub at the time – and Silatah, where they carried out drug-smuggling, arms contraband and barratry activities, and levied tolls on the transit trade of agricultural products and other goods at a number of in-land checkpoints, such as Madfoun in the Batroun District.\n\nThe small ZLA entered the civil war only in July 1975, in response to a series of attacks in the Sunni Muslim-dominated northern port city of Tripoli on shops and offices owned by Christians from Zgharta by local Muslim militias. On 28 August 1975, the ZLA clashed again at Tripoli with the local Sunni militias, but also at Zahlé with the local Greek-Catholic Zahliote Group (ZG) militia, despite the intervention of Lebanese Army troops in a vain attempt to curb the fighting. In October that year, ZLA militiamen were heavily committed in the Battle of the Hotels in Beirut, though later on 14 January 1976 they were rushed to defend Zgharta, which was besieged by PLO – Lebanese National Movement (LNM) forces in retaliation for the fall of the Palestinian refugee camp of Dbayeh in the hands of the Lebanese Front's Christian militias that same day. Deployed again to Beirut in March 1976, they assisted the hard-pressed Republican Guard battalion in the defense of the Presidential Palace in the Baabda District from a two-pronged combined PLO – LNM – Lebanese Arab Army (LAA) assault, though prior to the attack President Suleiman Frangieh had decamped to the safety of Zouk Mikael, near Jounieh, and later to Kfour in the Keserwan District. \n\nDespite having joined in January 1976 the Lebanese Front alliance that gathered the main rightist Christian parties and their militias, the Frangiehs close ties to Syria (Suleiman was a personal friend of Syrian President Hafez al-Assad), along with their bitter political squabbling with the Gemayel clan – leaders of the Kataeb Party or 'Phalange' – and their dissagrements with the other Christian leaders over their tactical alliance with Israel, prompted them to break from the Lebanese Front in 1977, an act that would ultimely led to the tragic events of the following year.\n\nAfter Tony Frangieh was killed in the Ehden massacre perpetrated by the Lebanese Forces (LF) in June 1978, he was replaced in the militia's command by his younger brother Robert Frangieh, later succeeded by his nephew Suleiman Frangieh Jr. in 1982.\n\nIn the months immediately after the Ehden killings, the Frangiehs were not only able to prevent the ZLA of being totally destroyed or absorved into the Lebanese Forces, but also succeeded in ruthlessly driving the latter out of the Koura District by the end of the 1970s, kidnapping or slaughtering nearly 100 Phalange' members and forcing the remainder either to flee the region or go underground. \nIt has also been suspected that the Al-Marada/ZLA were behind the assassinations of Bashir Gemayel's infant daughter and bodyguards by a car bomb explosion in February 1979 and later of Bashir himself in September 1982, although the degree of involvement of the Zgharta-based militia on any of these attacks remains unclear. After 1978, the Frangiehs switched their allegiance to the LNM camp and then to Syria, even lending their support to Syrian Army units at east Beirut against the Christian militias and the Army of Free Lebanon (AFL) during the Hundred Days' War. They joined in July 1983 the Lebanese National Salvation Front (LNSF), subsequently supporting in 1988-1990 the Syrian-sponsored Taif Agreement and the parliament-based provisional government of Sunni Prime-Minister Selim Al-Hoss against General Michel Aoun's Maronite-dominated military interim government. \n\nPushed to the sidelines for the rest of the war, the Al-Marada/ZLA was able to remain active thanks to Syrian support and although its numbers dwindled to 1,600 fighters by the mid-1980s, the Al-Marada managed to hold on to the 'Northern Canton'. On July 11, 1984, the Al-Marada/ZLA clashed with the Syrian Social Nationalist Party (SSNP) militia forces for the control of the Christian villages of Kousba, Kfaraakka, Bsarma, Dahr-al-Ain and several others in the Koura District, with the ZLA eventually managing to drive out the SSNP and assert their dominance over the entire region until the end of the War. It was also alleged that they received the tacit backing from a contingent of unspecified number from the 1,700 men-strong Lebanese Army's Seventh Brigade stationed at Jbeil, being regarded as loyal to former president Suleiman Frangieh.\n\nUpon the end of the war in October 1990, Al-Marada/ZLA militia forces operating in Beirut and the 'Northern Canton' were ordered in March 1991 to disband and surrender their heavy weaponry. Disbanded in the early 1990s as a military force, they later re-emerged as a legal political organization, the Marada Movement (Arabic: \"Tayyar al-Marada\"). The ZLA is no longer active.\n\n\n\n\n"}
