{"id": "52495597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52495597", "title": "Aclima", "text": "Aclima\n\nAclima (also Luluwa) according to some religious traditions was the oldest daughter of Adam and Eve, the twin sister of Cain and wife of Abel. According to these traditions, she was the first female human who was born naturally. According to Islamic and rabbinic tradition, a marriage between Aclima and Abel was proposed and arranged by their father Adam. In order to commence contentment from Aclima's twin brother, Adam (their father) suggested that a sacrifice be made, yet sacrifice was subsequently rejected by God. The reason behind the commotion was that Cain viewed Aclima as being aesthetically more attractive than Awan. \n\nSome sources in the Eastern Orthodox traditions state Aclima's name as \"Calmana\" or \"Calmanna\". Alternative transliterations of her name include \"Aclimah\", \"Aclimia\", \"Aclimiah\", \"Klimia\".\n\nIn the \"Seder Hadorot\", Aclima is called \"Kalmana\". \n\nThe sister of Cain was named \"Kalmana\" in the Apocalypse of Pseudo-Methodius (first Greek redaction) II.1., and \"Calmana\" in the Golden Legend. The poet Petrus Riga (1140–1209) included \"Calmana\" in his famous poem \"Aurora\", and this could have been a source for her appearance in Peter Comestor's \"Historia Scholastica\". Comestor's Biblical narrative text then served as the standard textbook for Biblical education for centuries.\n\nSome religious sources describe Aclima's name as \"Luluwa\". She is described as the most beautiful of the early daughters of Adam and Eve. However, Cain reportedly hated her whilst in Eve's womb with her. The name \"Luluwa\" means \"beautiful\". This narrative was recorded in the \"Forgotten Books Of Eden\", which itself is a exegesis of earlier apocryphal texts. \n\n"}
{"id": "3292786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3292786", "title": "Al-Rafid, Lebanon", "text": "Al-Rafid, Lebanon\n\nAl-Rafid () is a village in the Rashaya District, in the southeastern area of the Beqaa Governorate in Lebanon. Its population is estimated to be 3,000. Its inhabitants are predominantly Sunni Muslims. The village has two mosques, two schools, two pharmacies, and a telecommunications facility.\n\nThe oldest part of the village lies halfway up Mount Baaloul (Jabal Baaloul) on the eastern slope. It is widely accepted by the inhabitants of the town that the town was originally located on the top of the mountain but was re-located after a civil strife had subsided over 400 years ago. Neighboring localities include Beere, Muhaydhi, Khirbet-Rouha, and Mdouckha. The town is located about from Beirut and from Damascus, Syria. From Al-Rafid, Jabal -Al-Sheikh (Mount Hermon) can be seen with its majestic snow-capped peak.\n\nThe village was occupied first by PLO forces in the late 1970s, then by Israeli forces in the early 1980s. Before Israel's invasion, the town suffered from Israeli warplane attacks. In one incident, the school was bombed, killing a mother and her four children. Israel said that the school was being used as a base for PLO forces.\n"}
{"id": "9629162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9629162", "title": "Antipater of Tyre", "text": "Antipater of Tyre\n\nAntipater of Tyre (; fl. 1st century BC) was a Stoic philosopher and a friend of Cato the Younger and Cicero.\n\nAntipater lived after, or was at least younger than, Panaetius. Cicero, in speaking of him, says, that he died \"recently at Athens\", which must mean shortly before 45 BC. He is mentioned by Strabo as a \"famous philosopher\" from Tyre. Antipater is said to have befriended Cato when Cato was a young man, and introduced him to Stoic philosophy:\nLittle is known about his writings. From Cicero we can perhaps infer that Antipater, like Panaetius, wrote a work \"On Duties\" ():\nDiogenes Laërtius refers to another work by him called \"On the Cosmos\" ():\n"}
{"id": "4724215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4724215", "title": "Beit Al Quran", "text": "Beit Al Quran\n\nBeit Al Qur'an (, meaning: the House of Qur'an) is a multi-purpose complex dedicated to the Islamic arts and is located in Hoora, Bahrain. Established in 1990, the complex is most famous for its Islamic museum, which has been acknowledged as being one of the most renowned Islamic museums in the world.\n\nConstruction of the complex began in 1984 and the museum was officially opened in March 1990 by Abdul Latif Jassim Kanoo. It was built to \"accommodate a comprehensive and valuable collection of the Qur'an and other rare manuscripts\", a concept which, according to a regional magazine, is unique in the Persian Gulf region. \nThe core of the museum's holdings is Kanoo's own collection of Qur'anic manuscripts and Islamic art, since he was reportedly said to have been an avid collector. As his collection grew, he reportedly came to feel a strong sense of responsibility toward the rare manuscripts he had acquired. In 1990, he donated his collection to the museum he established to operate a first-of-its-kind institution dedicated to the service of the Qur'an and the preservation of historic manuscripts.\n\nThe establishment of the institute was funded completely by public donations, with added help from a variety of people from all walks of life in Bahrain, ranging from heads of state to school children. The facilities at Beit Al Qur'an are free to the general public.\n\nThe institution and its museum house an internationally celebrated collection of historic Quranic manuscripts from various parts of the Islamic world, from China in the East and to Spain in the West, representing a progression of calligraphic traditions from the first Hijri century (622–722 AD) and of the Islamic Golden Age, to the present day.\n\nThe Beit al Qur'an complex is open to the public on Saturdays to Wednesdays from 9am to 12pm and 4pm to 6pm respectively. The complex's exterior designs are based on an old fashioned 12th-century mosque. The entire complex itself comprises a mosque, a library, an auditorium, a madrasa, and a museum that consists of ten exhibition halls. A large stained glass dome covers the grand hall and mosque. The Mihrab, the sign indicating the direction to Mecca, is covered in blue ceramic tiles with engraved Al Qursi Qur'anic verse.\n\nThe library consists of over 50,000 books and manuscripts in three languages – Arabic, English and French – that are mostly on Islam. The institute does specialise in Islamic art, and many of the reference books have international importance. The library and its reading rooms are open to the public during working hours with internet access available, as well as providing individual rooms for researchers and specialists.\n\nThere is also an auditorium – named the Mohammed Bin Khalifa Bin Salman Al Khalifa Lecture Hall – which can accommodate up to 150 people, and is mainly used for lectures and conferences. Guest speakers are brought to Bahrain from many countries, including the US, UK, and France. The conference hall is often made available for general use for public lectures in cooperation with different societies and institutions in Bahrain.\n\nThe Yousuf Bin Ahmad Kanoo School for Qur'anic Studies is located within the site. The school offers seven study areas fully equipped with computers and modern aids, with separate classes for women and children learning the Qur'an.\n\nThe Al Hayat Museum is the complex's most recognized establishments; it consists of ten halls spread over two floors, exhibiting rare Qur'anic manuscripts from different periods, starting from the first century Hijra (700 AD). Manuscripts on parchments that originate from Saudi Arabia (Mecca and Medina), Damascus and Baghdad, are present in the museum. The manuscripts undergo special procedures for the preservation of these artifacts, in order to protect them from damages. Some of the artifacts present in the museum include a rare manuscript of the Qur'an, dating to 1694 AD and was printed in Germany. The museum also houses the world's oldest translated copy of the Qur'an, which was translated to Latin in Switzerland and dates to 955 AD. The first copy of the Qur'an, written during the reign of Caliph Uthman ibn Affan, is on display in the museum alongside a number of small copies of the Qur'an, which could only be read using optical instruments.\n\nGrains, peas and rice, dating from the 14th century in present-day Pakistan, which contain surahs engraved into them, are displayed in the museum. The exhibits include a rare number of gold and copper pottery and glass from different eras of Iraq, Turkey, Iran and Egypt, respectively.\n\nThe works of Islamic scholars, such as Ibn Taymiyyah are preserved in the museum. It has been claimed to have been \"the only institute in the world dedicated to the Qur'an and Qur'anic studies\".\n\n"}
{"id": "12258543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12258543", "title": "Buddhism in the Czech Republic", "text": "Buddhism in the Czech Republic\n\nWith a rough estimate of fifty thousand Buddhists, Buddhism is practiced by around 0.5% of the Czech population. The World Buddhist Directory lists 70 Buddhist places in the Czech Republic.\n\nThe Vietnamese-speaking communities form the mainstay of the Buddhist population in the Czech Republic. The Vietnamese practice mainly Mahayana Buddhism with some syncretism of ancestor worship, Confucianism and Taoism. They represent roughly from two thirds to three quarters of the Buddhist community alongside being the largest Asian community in the Czech Republic, numbering over 60,000. The remainder consists of a significant number of Czechs who have converted (mainly to Theravada or Vajrayana Buddhism) and the smaller communities of overseas Chinese and Koreans.\n\nBuddhism is found mainly where the Vietnamese-speaking people reside, notably in the cities of Prague and Cheb. \"Thien An\" Buddhist Pagoda in the northern province of Varnsdorf was the first Vietnamese style temple to be consecrated in the Czech Republic, in January 2008. The pagoda was completed in September 2007 and now serves as a center of Vietnamese culture and teaching Vietnamese language. There are also ten Korean Buddhist temples in the Czech Republic, with three each in Prague and Brno.\n\nThe Vajrayana practitioners are mainly centered on the Nyingma and Kagyu schools. The Karma Kagyu tradition has established about 50 centers and meditation groups. The Diamond Way tradition of Vajrayana Buddhism, founded and directed by Ole Nydahl is active in both the Czech Republic and Slovakia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "270505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270505", "title": "Censer", "text": "Censer\n\nA censer, incense burner or perfume burner (these may be hyphenated) is a vessel made for burning incense or perfume in some solid form. These vessels vary greatly in size, form, and material of construction, and have been in use since ancient times in many cultures, in both secular and religious contexts. They may consist earthenware]] bowls or fire pots to intricately carved silver or gold vessels, small table top objects a few centimetres tall to as many as several metres high. Many designs use openwork to allow a flow of air. In many cultures, burning incense has spiritual and religious connotations, and this influences the design and decoration of the censer.\n\nSome types could also be used as pomanders, where the perfume diffuses slowly by evaporation rather than burning.\n\nFor direct-burning incense, pieces of the incense are burned by placing them directly on top of a heat source or on a hot metal plate in a censer or thurible.\n\nIndirect-burning incense, also called \"non-combustible incense\", is a combination of aromatic ingredients that are not prepared in any particular way or encouraged into any particular form, leaving it mostly unsuitable for direct combustion. The use of this class of incense requires a separate heat source since it does not generally kindle a fire capable of burning itself and may not ignite at all under normal conditions. This incense can vary in the duration of its burning with the texture of the material. Finer ingredients tend to burn more rapidly, while coarsely ground or whole chunks may be consumed very gradually as they have less total surface area. The heat is traditionally provided by charcoal or glowing embers.\n\nFor home use of granulated incense, small, concave charcoal briquettes are sold. One lights the corner of the briquette on fire, then places it in the censer and extinguishes the flame. After the glowing sparks traverse the entire briquette, it is ready to have incense placed on it.\n\nFor direct-burning incense, the tip or end of the incense is ignited with a flame or other heat source until the incense begins to turn into ash at the burning end. Flames on the incense are then fanned or blown out, with the incense continuing to burn without a flame on its own.\n\nCensers made for stick incense are also available; these are simply a long, thin plate of wood, metal, or ceramic, bent up and perforated at one end to hold the incense. They serve to catch the ash of the burning incense stick.\n\nIn Taoist and Buddhist temples, the inner spaces are scented with thick coiled incense, which are either hung from the ceiling or on special stands. Worshipers at the temples light and burn sticks of incense. Individual sticks of incense are then vertically placed into individual censers.\n\nThe history of censers in Chinese culture probably began in the late Eastern Zhou Dynasty (770–256 BCE). The Chinese words meaning \"censer\" are compounds of \"lu\" ( or \"brazier; stove; furnace\"), which originated as a type of Chinese bronze. \"Xianglu\" (爐, with \"incense\") \"incense burner; censer\" is the most common term. \"Xunlu\" (爐, with \"smoke; fumigate; cure (food) with smoke\", or 爐, with \"fragrance; an aromatic grass\") means \"small censer, esp. for fumigating or scenting clothing; censing basket\", which Edward H. Schafer described.\n\"Censing baskets\" were globes of hollow metal, pierced with intricate floral or animal designs; within the globe, an iron cup, suspended on gimbals, contained the burning incense. They were used to perfume garments and bedclothes, and even to kill insects.\n\"Shoulu\" (爐, with \"hand\") means \"hand-held censer; handwarmer\".\n\nThe \"boshanlu\" (博山爐 \"universal mountain censer\" or \"boshan xianglu\" 博山香爐) or hill censer, which became popular during the era of Emperor Wu of Han (r. 141–87 BCE), displayed a microcosmic sacred mountain (esp. Mount Kunlun or Mount Penglai). These elaborate censers were designed with apertures that made rising incense smoke appear like clouds or mist swirling around a mountain peak. The Han Dynasty scholar Liu Xiang wrote a (c. 40 BCE) \"boshanlu\" inscription:\n\"I value this perfect utensil, lofty and steep as a mountain! Its top is like Hua Shan in yet its foot is a bronze plate. It contains rare perfumes, red flames and green smoke; densely ornamented are its sides, and its summit joins azure heaven. A myriad animals are depicted on it. Ah, from it sides I can see ever further than Li Lou\" [who had legendary eyesight].\n\nArcheologists excavated many (c. second century BCE) \"boshanlu\" at Mawangdui, and some contained the remains of ashes. Analysis revealed aromatic plants such as \"maoxiang\" (茅香 \"Imperata cylindrica, thatch grass\"), \"gaoliangjiang\" (高良薑 \"Galangal\"), \"xinyi\" (辛夷 \"Magnolia liliiflora, Mulan magnolia), and \"gaoben\" (藁本\"Ligusticum sinense, Chinese lovage\"). Scholars presume burning these grasses \"may have facilitated communication with spirits\" during funeral ceremonies.\n\nAccording to the sinologist and historian Joseph Needham, some early Daoists adapted censers for the religious and spiritual use of cannabis. The (ca. 570 CE) Daoist encyclopedia \"Wushang Biyao\" (無上秘要 \"Supreme Secret Essentials\"), recorded adding cannabis into ritual censers. The Shangqing School of Daoism provides a good example. The Shangqing scriptures were written by Yang Xi (330– c. 386 CE) during alleged visitations by Daoist \"immortals\", and Needham believed Yang was \"aided almost certainly by cannabis\". Tao Hongjing (456-536 CE), who edited the official Shangqing canon, also compiled the \"Mingyi bielu\" (名醫別錄 \"Supplementary Records of Famous Physicians\"). It noted that \"mabo\" (麻勃 \"cannabis flowers\"), \"are very little used in medicine, but the magician-technicians ([\"shujia\"] 術家) say that if one consumes them with ginseng it will give one preternatural knowledge of events in the future.\" Needham concluded,\nThus all in all there is much reason for thinking that the ancient Taoists experimented systematically with hallucinogenic smokes, using techniques which arose directly out of liturgical observance. … At all events the incense-burner remained the centre of changes and transformations associated with worship, sacrifice, ascending perfume of sweet savour, fire, combustion, disintegration, transformation, vision, communication with spiritual beings, and assurances of immortality. \"Wai tan\" and \"nei tan\" met around the incense-burner. Might one not indeed think of it as their point of origin?\nThese \"Waidan\" (外丹 \"outer alchemy\") and \"neidan\" (內丹 \"inner alchemy\") are the primary divisions of Chinese alchemy.\n\nChinese censers were popularly shaped like a bird or animal, sometimes designed so that the incense smoke would issue from the mouth.\n\nEarly Islamic vessels are usually called perfume burners, and had no specific religious function, but were widely used in houses. Animal shapes, often lynx or other cats, in bronze or brass with openwork bodies are found from the 11th century until the Mongol conquests of the 13th century. A wide variety of other types were used at different times.\n\nKoro (Japanese: 香炉, \"kōro\") is a Japanese censer often used in Japanese tea ceremonies.\n\nExamples are usually of globular form with three feet, made in pottery, Imari porcelain, Kutani ware, Kakiemon, Satsuma, enamel or bronze.\nIn Japan a similar censer called a is used by several Buddhist sects. The egōro is usually made of brass with a long handle and no chain. Instead of charcoal, makkō powder is poured into a depression made in a bed of ash. The makkō is lit and the incense mixture is burned on top. This method is known as Sonae-kō (Religious Burning).\n\nUsed domestically and ceremonially in Mesoamerica, particularly in the large Central-Mexican city of Teotihuacan (100–600 AD) and in the many kingdoms belonging to the Maya civilization, were ceramic incense burners. The most common materials for construction were Adobe, plumbate, and earthenware. These materials can be dried by the sun and were locally sourced, making them the perfect material for a Mayan craftsman. Censers vary in decoration. Some are painted using a fresco style technique or decorated with \"adornos\", or small ceramic ornaments. These decorations usually depicted shells, beads, butterflies, flowers, and other symbols with religious significance that could to increase rainfall, agricultural abundance, fertility, wealth, good fortune or ease the transition of souls into the underworld. To identify precious materials such as jadeite and quetzal feathers, important visual markers of status, artists used colorful paints. \n\nUsed to communicate with the Gods, these censers functioned for acts of religious purification. Made up of copal (tree resin), rubber, and chewing gum, the incense produced what was described as \"the odor of the center of heaven.\"\nMayan censers, which had a reservoir for incense on top of a vertical shaft were highly elaborate during the Classic period (600–900 AD), particularly in the kingdom of Palenque, and usually show the head of a Mayan deity. In Post-Classic Yucatán, particularly in the capital of the kingdom of Mayapan, censers were found in great numbers, often shaped as an aged priest or deity. Craftsmen produced Mayan censers in many sizes, some just a few inches in height, others, several feet tall.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church, the Oriental Orthodox Church, as well as the Eastern Catholic Churches, censers (Greek: \"thymiateria\") are similar in design to the Western thurible. This fourth chain passes through a hole the hasp and slides in order to easily raise the lid. There will often be 12 small bells attached to the chains, symbolising the preaching of the Twelve Apostles, where one of the bells has been silenced to symbolize the rebel Judas. In some traditions the censer with bells is normally used only by a bishop. Before a deacon begins a censing, he will take the censer to the priest (or the bishop, if he is present) for a blessing. The censers, charcoal and incense are kept in the diaconicon (sacristy) Entrance with the censer at Great Vespers.\n\nThe censer is used much more frequently in the Eastern churches: typically at every vespers, matins, and Divine Liturgy, as well as pannikhidas (memorial services), and other occasional offices. If a deacon is present, he typically does much of the \"censing;\" otherwise, the priest will perform the censing. Unordained servers or acolytes are permitted to prepare and carry the censer, but may not swing it during prayers. Liturgical \"Censing\" is the practice of swinging a censer suspended from chains towards something or someone, typically an icon or person, so that smoke from the burning incense travels in that direction. Burning incense represents the prayers of the church rising towards Heaven. One commonly sung psalm during the censing is \"Let my prayer arise in Thy sight as incense, and let the lifting up of my hands be an evening sacrifice.\" When a deacon or priest performs a full censing of the temple (church building), he will often say Psalm 51 quietly to himself.\n\nIn addition to the chain censer described above, a \"hand censer\" (Greek: Κατσί \"katzi or katzion\") is used on certain occasions. This device has no chains and consists of a bowl attached to a handle, often with bells attached. The lid is normally attached to the bowl with a hinge.\n\nIn Greek practice, particularly as observed on Mount Athos, during the portion of Vespers known as \"Lord, I cry unto Thee\" the ecclesiarch (sacristan) and his assistant will perform a full censing of the temple and people using hand censers.\n\nSome churches have the practice of not using the chain censer during Holy Week, even by a priest or bishop, substituting for it the hand censer as a sign of humility, repentance and mourning over the Passion of Christ. They return to using the chain censer just before the Gospel reading at the Divine Liturgy on Great Saturday.\n\nSome Orthodox Christians use a standing censer on their icon corner (home altar).\n\nIn the Latin Rite of the Catholic Church and some other groups, the censer is often called a \"thurible\", and used during important offices (benedictions, processions, important Masses). A common design for a thurible is a metal container, about the size and shape of a coffee-pot, suspended on chains. The bowl contains hot coals, and the incense is placed on top of these. The thurible is then swung back and forth on its chains, spreading the fragrant smoke.\n\nA famous thurible is the \"Botafumeiro\", in the cathedral of Santiago de Compostela. Suspended from the ceiling of the cathedral, the swinging of this high, 55 kilogram silver vessel is an impressive sight.\n\nOne of the explanations for the great size of the Botafumeiro is that in the early days it was used to freshen the air in the cathedral after being visited by droves of travel-weary pilgrims. It was also once believed that the incense smoke guarded against contracting the many diseases that plagued the populace in past centuries.\n\nHindus have traditionally used an earthen censer called a Dhunachi for burning incense with coal, though coconut husk is also used. The vessel has a flared shape with a curved handle and an open top. There are also brass and silver versions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34369670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34369670", "title": "Center for Media, Religion and Culture", "text": "Center for Media, Religion and Culture\n\nThe Center for Media, Religion, and Culture is a research center in the University of Colorado's College of Media, Communication and Information, that aims at cultivating knowledge and promoting research on the representation and interpretation of religion in popular media, both inside and outside the U.S. The center was founded in 2006 by Professor Stewart M. Hoover, a Journalism and Mass Communication faculty known for his work on popular media and religions. In addition to hosting several international conferences that address current issues in media, religion and culture, the center offers fellowship programs for domestic and international scholars interested in conducting research on related subjects. The Center takes on various projects with research fellows to explore religion and media from varied angles and through new, developing theoretical frameworks. The Center aims to bring together scholars, professionals and the larger public to explore the variety of ways media and religion influence one another and our daily lives. The Center currently works on several projects including one on the \"Third Spaces\" of Religion and Media, as well as a project in conjunction with the University of Haifa, in Israel on Media Ambivalence. The Center also produces a radio show and has a group research blog.\n\nThe idea to establish a center for media, religion and culture was introduced by Paul S. Voakes in 2003 when the dean saw Hoover’s success in attracting support from the Lilly Endowment, Inc to conduct research on media and religion. What started as a research collaboration between Hoover, his graduate students and his colleagues in Europe began to develop into something bigger. \n\nIn November 2004 Hoover with the assistance of Lynn Schofield Clark wrote a proposal for the establishment of the center. They identified project areas that later became the center's foci. Research works remained to be the foundational activity for the center. In addition, the center seeks support for Senior, Faculty and Post-Doctoral Fellowship Program that help shape ongoing research and scholarly projects in the field of media, religion and culture. The center also hold lectures, seminars and formal conferences both independently and in cooperation with other institutions such as New York University and the University of Southern California in an effort to bridge the academy with religious communities, industries and the wider public. Furthermore, it acts as the global secretariat for the International Conferences on Media, Religion and Culture that started in Uppsala, Sweden, in 1994 and it has become the prominent conference in the field.\n\nThe Center was officially inaugurated in 2006. During the same year, Clark left University of Colorado at Boulder and subsequently the Center to become Assistant Professor at the School of Communication at University of Denver. She remains a close collaborator of the Center and maintains a good relationship with Hoover. In 2007 Journalism and Mass Communication hired a new Assistant Professor, Nabil Echchaibi, who specializes in identity politics among young Muslim in the Arab world and in diaspora. He is now the associate director of the Center.\n\nSome of the projects mentioned below took place prior to the establishment of the Center, but closely associated with its development and continuation.\n\nFinding Religion in the Media, 2010 - Present\nThe Center for Media, Religion and Culture is currently undertaking a study funded by the Ford Foundation on the ways religion is represented, experienced, and understood through the media today. The project, entitled “Finding Religion in the Media,” explores the extent to which religious belief, practice, and action—particularly that directed at social reform and social change—can be generated in and through the media sphere.\n\nThe “third spaces” concept has been central to the Finding Religion in the Media project. As developed by Hoover and Echchaibi, this concept serves as an interpretive tool to highlight what we call a “thickening” of the religious experience beyond dichotomous definitions of both religion and media categories. Digital spaces have opened up opportunities to theorize the production of meaning across hybrid spaces. Digital media reflect and narrativize life experiences and the Center has done so by looking specifically at case studies of the way religion and the religious is articulated and contested online. The research is framed around the novelty of technologies that leads us to adopt a hierarchical indexing of what constitutes an authentic experience of belonging and belief, outside of dichotomies of traditional/modern, physical/digital, and real/proximal embodied experience. The impulse to define how and why we communicate, drawing boundaries between various technological media leads to problematic understandings of complex user identities. The third spaces concept argues that theories of ritual, religion, media and communication benefit from an analysis of how meaning is produced and performed at the borderlines of a complex ecosystem of media ensembles and hybrid spaces.\n\nMuslims in the Mountain West, 2009-2010 \nThis research, supported by a grant from the Social Sciences Research Council, is a joint project of the Center and the University of Colorado’s Center for Asian Studies. It is intended to develop a profile of Muslims and of Islam in the six states of the mountain west. Interviews and site visits will document the life, interests and culture of this growing community. The outcome will be information useful to media, scholars, and interested members of the public, and products including a website, a documentary film, and various resources and materials. The grant also supports a series of round table conversations and informational events bringing together scholars of Islam, members of the media, and representatives of the Muslim community. The project also fed into the Center’s conference on Islam and the Media.\n\nSymbolism, Media, and the Lifecourse, 1996-2001 \nPrincipal Investigator (P.I.): Stewart Hoover; Associate P.I: Lynn Schofield Clark; Research Associates: Diane F. Alters, Joseph G. Champ, Lee Hood, and Henrik Boes. The project resulted in the book Media, Home, and Family (Routledge, 2004) written in collaboration by Hoover, Clark and Alters. The book argued that how families discuss the rules and practices surrounding media use are an important part of how they lay claim to a family identity in the age of reflexive parenting. The Symbolism project also provided the initial research for Hoover's, Religion in the Media Age (Routledge, 2006), Clark's From Angels to Aliens: Teenagers, the Media, and the Supernatural (Oxford U Press, 2003), and supported the development of the edited volume Practicing Religion in the Age of the Media, edited by Hoover and Clark (Columbia U Press, 2002).\n\nSymbolism, Meaning, & the New Media @ Home, 2001-2006\nP.I: Stewart Hoover; Associate P.I and Director for Teens and the New Media @ Home: Lynn Schofield Clark; Research Associates: Scott Webber, Christof Demont-Heinrich, Joe Champ, Michele Miles, AnnaMaria Russo, Denice Walker, Monica Emerich, Yuri Obata, Jin Park, and Kati Lustyik. This project provided the funding that supported the completion of Clark's book, From Angels to Aliens: Teenagers, the Media, and the Supernatural (Oxford U Press, 2003/2005 paperback). It also supported the conclusion of Hoover's Religion in the Media Age (Routledge, 2006) and the early research stage of Clark's Parenting in a Digital Age (forthcoming). Moreover, it provided support for the collaborative effort Hoover and Clark engaged in with the Pew Internet & American Life Project to produce the 2004 report, Faith Online.\n\nDissertation Fellowship Program in Media, Religion and Culture, 2002-2007 \nCo-Directors: Stewart Hoover and Lynn Schofield Clark; Fellowship Coordinators: Diane Alters, Scott Webber, Monica Emerich. This fellowship program has resulted in two edited volumes: Religion, Media, and the Marketplace (Rutgers University Press, 2007) \n\nMedia, Meaning and Work, 2006-2010 \nThis research project covers two topics: Men, Masculinity, & Civic Engagement with Stewart Hoover as the P.I., and Youth and Civic Engagement with Lynn Schofield Clark as the P.I. The second project is sub-contracted to the University of Denver. This project provided the funding for the book Hoover is currently writing with his former graduate student at what was previously known as SJMC, Curtis Coats.\n\nThe Center for Media, Religion and Culture hosts biannual conferences taking on important messages in relation to the subject of Media and Religion. The following are the conferences held at the University of Colorado at Boulder.\n\nMedia and Religion: The Global View (January 2014) \nThe Center’s conference: Media and Religion: The Global View was held at the University of Colorado Boulder on January 9-12, 2014. The conference was designed to explore religion in the 21st century as it relates to media and its global applications and implications.This conference brought together an interdisciplinary community of scholars for focused conversations on emerging issues in media and religion. Each has proven to be an important landmark in the development of theory and method in its respective area and has resulted in important collaborations, publications, and resources for further research and dialogue. Invited speakers included: Pradip Thomas, University of Queensland, Australia; Magali do Nascimento Cunha, Universidade Metodista de São Paulo, Brazil; Kwabena Asamoah-Gyadu, Trinity Theological Seminary, Accra, Ghana; and Jane Little, Religious Affairs Correspondent at the BBC World Service and Religion Editor at Public Radio International’s The World.\n\nInternational Conference on Digital Religion (January 2012)\nDigital Religion was held at the University of Colorado at Boulder on January 12-15, 2012. The conference brought together scholars of media and religion and producers of digital religion content from a variety of religious traditions to reflect on the implications of new media on religious practice and meaning-making in modern society. Invited speakers included: Stig Hjarvard, Department of Film & Media Studies at the University of Copenhagen, Jeremy Stolow, Department of Communication Studies at Concordia University, Montréal, and Heidi Campbell, Department of Communication at Texas A&M University. \n\nIslam and The Media (January 2010)\nCo-Directors: Nabil Echchaibi and Stewart Hoover.\n\nThe conference engaged a range of questions on the place of Islam within global, regional, national and local media. It was attended by scholars on Islam and contemporary media, media professionals, activists, and members of NGOs. Featured speakers and presenters included Charles Hirschkind, Professor of Social Cultural Anthropology at University of California at Berkeley, Zarqa Nawaz, Creator of Little Mosque on the Prairie, a Canadian Broadcasting Corporation sitcom that chronicles the life of a small Muslim community in a prairie town in Saskatchewan, and Mona Eltahawy, an award-winning syndicated columnist and an international public speaker on Arab and Muslim issues who is based in New York.\n\nInternational Society for Media, Religion and Culture Conference, 2014; Canterbury, England\n\nIn August 2014 the CMRC in association with the International Society for Media, Religion and Culture (ISMRC) held a conference hosted by Dr. Gordon Lynch from the University of Kent. This conference was held in Canterbury, England.\n\n"}
{"id": "1346987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1346987", "title": "Cheng Yen", "text": "Cheng Yen\n\nMaster Cheng Yen (; born 11 May 1937) is a Taiwanese Buddhist nun (bhikkhuni), teacher, and philanthropist. She was a student and follower of Master Ying Shun, a major figure in the development of Humanistic Buddhism in Taiwan. In 1966, Cheng Yen founded the Buddhist Compassion Relief Tzu Chi Foundation, ordinarily referred to as Tzu Chi. Cheng Yen started Tzu Chi as a group of thirty housewives who saved money to help needy families. The organization later became one of the largest humanitarian organizations in the world, eventually becoming the largest Buddhist organization in Taiwan. \n\nCheng Yen is considered to be one of the most influential figures in the development of modern Taiwanese Buddhism. In Taiwan, she is popularly referred to as one of the \"Four Heavenly Kings\" of Taiwanese Buddhism, along with her contemporaries Master Sheng-yen of Dharma Drum Mountain, Master Hsing Yun of Fo Guang Shan and Master Wei Chueh of Chung Tai Shan.\n\nCheng Yen was born \"Chin-Yun Wong\" () in 1937 in Kiyomizu Town, Taikō District, Taichū Prefecture, Japanese Taiwan (modern-day Qingshui, Taichung City, Taiwan). Unlike most leaders of major Taiwanese Buddhist organizations, Cheng Yen was born in Taiwan rather than mainland China. Her uncle was childless, so she was given to be raised by her aunt and uncle. Cheng-Yen grew up during the Japanese occupation of Taiwan during World War II, where she witnessed the devastating effects of war and experienced the bombings in Taiwan. These experiences were credited as contributing to what she regarded as the truth behind the concept of impermanence. In 1945, when she was eight years old, she looked after her sick brother in a hospital for eight months, and so learned more closely about people's pain and helplessness. At the age of 23, her father died suddenly from brain blood vessel disorder that brought about hemorrhaging and stroke. It was in searching for a burial place for him that Cheng Yen first came into close contact with the Buddhist Dharma, associated doctrines, and Buddhist scriptures (sutras). After her father's death, Cheng Yen took over managing her father's theaters and became financially responsible for her family.\n\nUpon deciding to become a nun, Cheng Yen ran away to a temple in 1960, fearing that if she were to ask leave in advance, she might not be permitted to go. After her first attempt at running away, her mother found her three days later and brought her back home. She ran away from home a second time in 1961. She left to travel through eastern Taiwan with a friendly nun by the name of Master Xiūdào (修道法師). Cheng Yen followed a nontraditional route to becoming a nun, traveling for two years with Master Xiūdào. Cheng Yen even shaved her own head before she had been officially ordained a nun. After traveling for two years, Cheng Yen decided that she needed to become an ordained nun in order to continue her lifestyle. She went to the to register for ordination, but was turned down because she did not have a master. Typically, to become a nun in Taiwan, one must be the disciple of a master for two years before ordination. Cheng Yen encountered Venerable Master Yin Shun, whom she asked to be her mentor. He accepted her request, an hour before the registration closed. In February 1963, she became the disciple of her mentor, the Venerable Master Yin Shun, who gave her the dharma name of Cheng Yen and the courtesy name of Huìzhāng (慧璋). Yin Shun also gave her the expectation of \"doing all for the Buddhist religion and for all beings\", which is written with six characters in Chinese. These six characters became the highest ideals for Cheng Yen in belief, teaching, and practice.\n\nIn May 1963, shortly after receiving her ordination as a nun, she went to Pu Ming Temple (普明寺) in Hualien County to continue her spiritual formation. As a part of that formation, she recited the \"Lotus Sutra\", which she revered, every day and transcribed every month. It was during her six months there that she vowed to commit herself to the Lotus Sutra and the \"Path of the Bodhisattvas.\"\n\nMaster Cheng Yen was heavily influenced by the Lotus Sutra, which she called the culmination of the Buddha's teachings. Master Cheng Yen's initial exposure to the Lotus Sutra happened when she left her family in Fengyuan, Taichung County, and stayed away from the world by lodging in a small hut in Taitung County, in eastern Taiwan. While in Taitung, she accidentally found a Japanese version of the Lotus Sutra, and was pleased with what the book said. Later, she had a friend bring back a Japanese copy of the Lotus Sutra (Myoho Renge Kyo) from Japan, and was inspired by the Muryōgi Kyō, or what is better known as the Innumerable Meanings Sutra, which is traditionally regarded as the prologue to the Lotus Sutra. The Innumerable Meanings Sutra addresses human problems, weather behavior, and psychiatric, psychological, and spiritual issues.\n\nThere were two watershed events that occurred in 1966 that are credited with having inspired Cheng Yen to found Tzu Chi. The first event occurred while Cheng Yen was visiting a hospital in Fenglin. After seeing blood on the hospital floor, she learned that a Taiwanese aborigine woman had a miscarriage. They were forced to carry the pregnant woman back up the mountain after they could not afford the 8000 New Taiwan dollar deposit. The aborigine woman later died. This story actually became source of a legal case in the early 2000s. While Cheng Yen never mentioned the name of the doctor when telling the story, one of her followers did, resulting in a defamation suit against Cheng Yen by the doctor's family.\n\nThe second event was a now-famous discussion Cheng Yen had with three Roman Catholic nuns at Pu Ming temple in 1966. While the nuns admitted the profundity of Buddhist teachings, they noted that the Catholic Church had helped people around the world by building schools and hospitals and inquired, \"But what has Buddhism done for society?\". The discussion is credited with having made Master Cheng Yen realize that Buddhism had to do more than simply encourage the private cultivation of people's souls.\n\nInfluenced by the Lotus Sutra, and the encounters with the Taiwanese aborigine woman and the Roman Catholic nuns, Master Cheng Yen established the Buddhist Compassion Relief Tzu Chi Foundation on 14 May 1966 in an endeavor to help the poor of east Taiwan. The organization started when Cheng Yen encouraged her thirty housewife followers to save fifty cents (US$0.02) from their grocery money every day and store them in bamboo savings banks to help needy families. When posed with the question, \"Why can't we give once a week?\" Master Cheng Yen replied, \"Because giving is a practice and we need to give every day. If we have a yearning or a positive desire in us, we must nourish it and bring it to fulfillment. Just as Buddha was guided by a noble desire to help others, we too can listen to those who are sad or help those who are in pain.\" In the first year, fifteen families were provided with aid by the initial thirty followers.\n\nTzu Chi expanded its work from helping needy families to medical aid in 1970. In 1986 Tzu Chi established its first Hospital in Hualien. Tzu Chi has since built hospitals in Yuli, Hualien County; Dalin, Jiayi County; Guanshan, Taidong County; and Xindian, New Taipei City.\n\nTzu Chi experienced modest growth in the first two decades of its establishment, it grew to 293 members in 1968 and by 1986 had just 8,000 members. However, with the surge in popularity of Humanistic Buddhism in Taiwan in the late 1980s and 1990s, Tzu Chi enjoyed a rapid expansion in membership alongside several other major Taiwanese Buddhist organizations. From 1987 to 1991 Tzu Chi membership doubled in size each year, by 1994 it boasted a membership of 4 million members. \n\nTzu Chi is most well known for its work in disaster relief, Cheng Yen's philosophy includes the notion that not only are those receiving assistance benefiting materially by receiving the aid, but those delivering the aid are also spiritually rewarded when they see the gratitude in the eyes and smiles of the recipients. Tzu Chi's first major disaster relief effort was in 1991, when it undertook relief operations after severe floods hit central and eastern China. One of the most iconic attributes of Tzu Chi disaster relief efforts is that volunteers not only provide short term aid but also partake in long term projects to rebuild the communities affected. Tzu Chi often builds new homes, schools, hospitals, and places of worship (including churches and mosques for non-Buddhists) for victims following a disaster. As of 2015, Tzu Chi has provided disaster relief aid to over 85 countries worldwide. \n\nA significant fraction of funds raised by Tzu Chi revolves around environmentally friendly goals such as the encouragement of recycling and using reusable items to reduce waste. As of 2014, the foundation operates over 5,600 recycling stations.\n\nTzu Chi has grown to become a significant actor in civil society, Tzu Chi is not only the largest Buddhist organization in Taiwan, but also Taiwan's largest owner of private land. As of 2013, the organization was estimated to have approximately 10 million members worldwide, and chapters in 47 countries. \n\nIn January 1998, Cheng Yen launched Da Ai (literally \"Great Love\") Satellite Television (慈濟大愛電視台; \"Cí jì Dà Ài Diàn Shì Tái\") a 24-hours in daily of satellite television station. Da Ai is commercial free and operates twenty-four hours a day. It is funded by donations as well as partially by Tzu Chi's recycling programs. Da Ai features non-political news, lectures from Cheng Yen and serial programs focused on the virtues, often profiling people who made major changes in their life for the better.\n\nCheng Yen makes a broadcast every morning in an address known as \"Wisdom at Dawn\" and makes another address in the evening. She wakes up around 3:45 am to start her activities, such as receiving visitors, and overseeing Tzu Chi's projects throughout Taiwan. She often makes monthly trips around the country to check in on Tzu Chi's projects and activities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10894875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10894875", "title": "Christian Hebraist", "text": "Christian Hebraist\n\nA Christian Hebraist is a scholar of Hebrew who comes from a Christian family background/belief, or is a Jewish adherent of Christianity. The main area of study is that commonly known as the \"Old Testament\" to Christians (and \"Tanakh\" to Jews), but Christians have occasionally taken an interest in the \"Talmud\", and \"Kabbalah\".\n\nThe early fathers of the Christian Church got their knowledge of Hebrew traditions (Masoretic, Midrashim, Aggadah) from their Jewish teachers. This is seen especially in the exegesis of Justin Martyr, Aphraates, Ephraem Syrus, and Origen of Alexandria. Jerome's teachers are even mentioned by name—e.g., Bar Ḥanina (Hananiah).\nSyriac Christians have always been reading and using Hebrew texts. In western Christianity, however, knowledge of Hebrew was historically scarce outside of converts from Judaism. It has often been claimed that the Venerable Bede (d.735) knew something of Hebrew, but his knowledge appears to have been gleaned entirely from St Jerome. The same may be said of Alcuin (b. 735), who revised the Biblical translation of Jerome. The ninth-century Pseudo-Jerome, who worked in the circle of Rabanus Maurus (d.856), had knowledge of Hebrew.\n\nDuring the Twelfth-Century Renaissance, contact between Christian and Jewish scholars increased. Peter Abelard (d.1142) recommended Christian scholars take up the language of the Old Testament and many followed this recommendation. The School of Saint Victor became the centre of Hebraism in western Europe. The school of Toledo also worked with Hebrew, but it was secondary to Arabic. Adam of Saint Victor (d.1146) was the most prominent Victorine Hebraist and his student, Herbert of Bosham (fl.1162–89), studied with Abraham ibn Ezra (d.c.1167) to acquire deeper grammatical understanding. The Cistercian tradition of Hebrew studies began with Nicholas Manjacoria.\n\nIn the thirteenth century, Hebrew learning declined among native Christians, while converts from Judaism mainly used their knowledge polemically against their co-ethnics. The tradition of scholarly Hebraism was strongest in England. Among the prominent English Hebraists were Alexander Neckham (d.1217); Stephen Langton (d.1228), who composed a Hebrew–Latin dictionary of Biblical terms; William de la Mare (fl.1272–79), who was patronised by Robert Grosseteste (d.1253); and Roger Bacon (d.c.1292), who wrote Hebrew grammar.\n\nIn the fourteenth century, the Franciscans and Dominicans took up Hebrew, but their purpose was evangelical. They were instrumental, however, in setting up chairs of Hebrew in universities across Europe. The ecumenical Council of Vienne (1312) ordered chairs established at the universities of Rome, Oxford, Paris, Salamanca and Bologna. Paris had the leading Hebraist of the period in Nicholas of Lyra (d.1349), while following him was Bishop Paul of Burgos (d.1435), a Jewish convert.\n\nIt was not, however, until the end of the 15th century that the Renaissance and the Reformation, while awakening a new interest in the classics, brought about a return to the original text of Scripture and an attempt to understand the later literature of the Jews. Hieronymus Buslidius, the friend of Erasmus, gave more than 20,000 francs to establish a Hebrew chair at Louvain; as the chair of Hebrew at the University of Paris, Francis offered the chair to Elijah Levita, the friend of Cardinal Ægidius of Viterbo, who declined to accept it. Cardinal Grimani and other dignitaries, both of the state and of the Church, studied Hebrew and the Cabala with Jewish teachers; even the warrior Guido Rangoni attempted the Hebrew language with the aid of Jacob Mantino (1526). Pico de la Mirandola (d. 1494) was the first to collect Hebrew manuscripts, and Reuchlin was the first to write a dictionary and short grammar of the Hebrew language (1506). A more detailed grammar was published by Otto Walper in 1590. But interest still centered wholly around the Bible and the expository literature immediately connected therewith.\n\nDuring the whole of the 16th century it was Hebrew grammar and Jewish exegesis that claimed attention. Christian scholars were not ashamed to be the students of Jewish teachers. In fact, one of the most noted Hebraists of this period was Immanuel Tremellius (1510-1580), born Jewish and converted first to Catholicism and soon thereafter became a Calvinist, producing the main Reformed translation of the Hebrew Bible into Latin (he also translated the New Testament from the Syriac into Latin). Sebastian Münster (d. 1552) was known as a grammarian; Pellicanus (d. 1556) and Pagninius (d. 1541), as lexicographers; Daniel Bomberg (d. 1549), as a printer of Hebrew books. Arius Montanus (d. 1598) edited the Masorah and the \"Travels of Benjamin of Tudela\". Widmanstadt (1523), living in a colony of Spanish Jewish refugees in Naples, studied Hebrew with David ibn Ya'ya and Baruch of Benevento, and collected the Hebrew manuscripts which formed the basis of the Hebrew division of the Royal Library at Munich. Vatablé (d. 1547) made use of Rashi's commentary. Conrad Gesner (d. 1565) was the first Christian to compile a catalogue of Hebrew books; Jacob Christmann (d. 1613) busied himself with the Jewish calendar, and Drusius (d. 1616) with the ethical writings of the Jews.\n\nJohannes Buxtorf (d. 1629) marks a turning-point in the study of Jewish literature by Christians. He not only studied the \"Targum\" and the \"Talmud\", but endeavored to understand Jewish history, and he was the first real bibliographer. Women showed an interest: Anna Maria Schurman, the \"star of the century\", in the Dutch Republic; Dorothea Moore in England; Queen Christina of Sweden (d. 1689); Maria Dorothea, consort of the Duke of Saxe-Weimar; Elizabeth, daughter of Frederick of the Palatinate; Maria Eleanora, wife of Charles Ludwig of the Palatinate; Antonia, daughter of Duke Eberhard of Württemberg.\n\nThrough Buxtorf a serious attempt was made to understand the post-Biblical literature, and many of the most important works were translated into Latin. In this connection the following names may be mentioned: Johannes Cocceius (d. 1667); Constantin L'Empereur (d. 1648); John Lightfoot (d. 1675); Johann Leusden (d. 1699); and especially Surenhuis (1698), who gave a complete translation of the \"Mishnah\"; Jewish theology was studied by Carpzov (d. 1699), Wagenseil (1705; whose letters show how he gathered information), and Johann Stephan Rittangel (1641); antiquities, by Samuel Bochart (d. 1667), Hottinger (d. 1667), Hyde (d. 1700), Trigland (d. 1705), Breithaupt (1707), and Johann Jakob Schudt (d. 1722). It was a time in which the Christian theologian studied Hebrew and rabbinics before taking up his specific theological study. Hackspan (d. 1659) wrote upon the value to the theologian of studying the works of the Rabbis. Their writings on the Bible were read by Schickard (1635), Humphrey Hody (d. 1706), and Richard Simon (d. 1712), while catalogues of Hebrew collections were published by Plantavitius (d. 1651), Le Long (d. 1721), and Montfaucon (d. 1741). Hottinger gave this literature a place in his \"Bibliotheca Orientalis\"; Otho (1672) wrote a biographical lexicon of the Mishnah teachers; and Bartolocci's \"Bibliotheca Rabbinica\" (1675) was a worthy continuation of these bibliographical labors.\n\nThe first half of the 18th century contains the names of three important scholars. Jacques Basnage knew no Hebrew, but his \"L'Histoire de la Religion des Juifs\" was the first attempt at a complete presentation of the history of Judaism. The \"Entdecktes Judenthum\" of Eisenmenger (d.1704) exhibits a mass of Jewish learning. Johann Christoph Wolf (d. 1739), who, with the help of the Oppenheimer library, was able to produce his \"Bibliotheca Hebræa\", which laid the foundation for all later works in Hebrew bibliography.\n\nJohann Christian Georg Bodenschatz (d. 1797), though not a scholarly Hebraist, gave an accurate account of Jewish ceremonials. By the side of these stand Bashuysen (d. 1750), the translator and printer of Hebrew books; Reland (d. 1718), the first to use Talmudic material for the study of the geography of Palestine; the bibliographers Unger (d. 1719) and Gagnier (d. 1720), who gave Wolf his information regarding the manuscripts in the Bodleian; J. H. Michaelis (d. 1738) and Mai (d. 1732), who compiled a catalogue of the Uffenbach library; Baratier (d. 1740), the youthful prodigy, who wrote on Benjamin of Tudela; Mill (d. 1756), who treated rabbinical exegesis; and Wähner (1762), who described Hebrew antiquities. Biagio Ugolini (1744) is said to have been a converted Jew, and therefore finds no place here. Special mention should be made of Ezra Stiles, the learned president of Yale College (1778), certainly the most learned Christian student of post-Biblical Jewish literature that America has produced.\n\nTowards the end of the 18th century such friends of Hebrew literature became ever rarer. The rise of Biblical criticism and of the study of other Semitic languages engaged the whole interest of Semitic scholars.\n\nEven Rabe, the translator of the \"Mishnah\" into German (d. 1798), Semmler, Michaelis, Tychsen (d. 1815), and Sylvestre de Sacy (d. 1838) can hardly be mentioned by the side of the humanists of previous centuries. Interest in the text of the Bible caused some work to be done in the collecting of Hebrew manuscripts, especially by Benjamin Kennicott in England (1776–80) and Giovanni Bernardo De Rossi in Italy (1784–88). The last-named made a valuable collection of Hebrew manuscripts; and by his side may be mentioned Joseph Pasinus (or Giuseppe Passini) in Turin (d. 1749), Antonio Maria Biscioni in Florence (d. 1752), Giuseppe Simone Assemani in Rome, and Ury in Oxford (d. 1787).\n\nThe downward trend continued in the first half of the 19th century; Jewish literature became less and less a subject of investigation by Christians; and when it was studied it was generally for the purpose of forging weapons against the people whose literature it was. This is seen in such works as A. T. Hartmann's \"Thesaurus Linguæ Hebr. c Mischna Augendi\" (1825), in Winer's \"Biblisches Real Wörterbuch\", and even in the works of Hitzig and Ewald. There was no understanding even of the period of Jewish history during which Christianity arose and developed; and David Strauss's complaint in regard to this was only too well founded.\n\nDuring the second half of the 19th century, however, the idea gained currency that there was something to be learned by going back to the sources of this history; but only a very few of the universities made a place for this study in their curricula. At the beginning of the 18th century David Rudolph of Liegnitz included \"Rabbinisch und Chaldäisch\" among the Oriental languages which he taught at Heidelberg; but he had few imitators; and in the 19th century, apart from a few stray courses, such as Emil Kautzsch's on Kimhi at Tübingen, Lagarde's on Al-Ḥarizi at Göttingen, and Strack's on the \"Mishnah\" at Berlin, the whole of rabbinic literature was ignored by European universities.\n\nHonorable exceptions in this respect were furnished in the universities of Oxford (where A. Cowley was sublibrarian of the Bodleian Library) and Cambridge (which has produced such scholars as W. H. Lowe, Matthews, and Charles Taylor) in England, and in Columbia University, the University of California, the University of Chicago, Harvard University, and Johns Hopkins University, in America. The Jews had been allowed to work out by themselves the new Jewish science (\"Jüdische Wissenschaft\"), little attention being paid to that work by others.\n\nIn more recent times Christian scholars have given Jewish literature their attention. Abbé Pietro Perreau has done good service by his many articles on the literature of the Jews in the Middle Ages and by the assistance he has given to scholars from the Hebrew manuscripts at Parma; Martin Hartmann has translated and commentated the \"Meteḳ Sefatayim\" of Immanuel Frances (Berlin, 1894); Thomas Robinson has collected some good material in his \"The Evangelists and the Mishna\" (1859). August Wünsche, in his \"Erläuterung der Evangelien aus Midrasch und Talmud\" (1878), enlarged the scope of the inquiry begun by Lightfoot; and his translations from the \"Midrash\" opened up the stores of ancient Jewish exegesis. Weber's \"System der Altsynagogalen Palestinischen Theologie\" (1880) was, with all its failings, an honest attempt to understand the theology of the Synagogue, followed by Wilhelm Bousset in his \"Religiondes Judenthums im Neutestamentlichen Zeitalter\" (1903). Dom Pedro II, King of Brazil, should also be mentioned for his publication of Provençal Jewish poetry.\n\nThe Institutum Judaicum in Leipzig, founded by Franz Delitzsch, and a similar society bearing the same name in Berlin and founded by Hermann Strack, have attempted, by their various publications, to diffuse in the Christian world a knowledge of Jewish writings. Gustav Dalman has shown by his philological works on Talmudic grammar and lexicography that he is at home in the rabbinic writings. Hermann Strack in Berlin demands special mention not only for his publications dealing with the literature of the Mishnah and the Talmud, but also on account of the fearless manner in which he has combated anti-Semitic prejudice, drawing his material directly from the original sources. Carl Siegfried, in his yearly reports in the \"Theologischer Jahresbericht\", for many years called attention to publications on Jewish subjects, and the mention of such works in the \"Orientalische Bibliographie\" has served to bring them more closely to the attention of Christian scholars. The roll of Christian Hebraists in England includes the names of J. W. Etheridge, the author of a popular \"Introduction to [post-Biblical] Hebrew Literature\" (1856); Thomas Chenery, translator of \"Legends from the Midrash\" (1877), and editor of Al-Ḥarizi's translation of Ḥariri; and W. H. Lowe, who edited the Palestinian recension of the Mishnah.\n\nIn spite, however, of these facts and of the warning given by Lagarde (\"Symmicta\", ii. 147; \"Mittheilungen\", ii. 165), that in order to understand the Bible text itself a deep study of the Halakah is necessary, Christian writers on the life of Jesus continue their disregard of the primary sources. This may be seen in Hausrath's \"Neutestamentliche Zeitgeschichte\" (\"Kaufmann Gedenkbuch\", p. 659), and even in Schürer (\"Gesch.\"), who, though making a great advance upon previous efforts, still relies upon second-hand sources for many of the pictures that he draws (see Abrahams in \"J. Q. R.\" xi. 628). Adolph Harnack, who, in his \"Dogmengeschichte\" (3d ed.), endeavors to do some justice to the rabbis of old, in his \"Wesen des Christenthums\" (1900), sustains potential historical inaccuracies from a perhaps selective review of Jewish literature of the relevant period, possibly most noticeable in a lack of regard for the Jewish literature and history during the most recent eighteen hundred years.\n\nThe following list of Christian Hebraists includes material taken from the Jewish Encyclopedia (1906), compiled upon the basis of Steinschneider's article mentioned in the bibliography below. Christian students of the Bible more generally were not included, as they may be found in other articles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe bibliography of that article is below:\n\n"}
{"id": "90291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90291", "title": "Cihuateteo", "text": "Cihuateteo\n\nIn Aztec mythology, the Cihuateteo (; , singular ) or “Divine Women,” were the malevolent spirits of women who died in childbirth. They were likened to the spirits of male warriors who died in violent conflict, because childbirth was conceptually equivalent to battle in Aztec culture. According to tradition, a woman in labor was said to capture the spirit of her newborn child similar to the way a warrior captures his opponent in battle. These spirits are also associated with the west, the place where the sun sets each day.\n\nThe \"Cihuateteo\" resided in a region in the west known as \"Cihuatlampa\", the “place of women.” Each day, they guided the sun into the west from noon until sunset, and are occasionally suggested to have even borne it through the underworld until it rose again. They were aided by the spirits of male warriors, and this practice of guiding the sun was seen as exclusive to these two groups of the deceased—it was an honor that was not bestowed on any other individuals.\n\nOn five specific days in the Aztec calendar, the \"cihuateteo\" descended to the earth: 1 Deer, 1 Rain, 1 Monkey, 1 House, and 1 Eagle. While on earth, they were considered to be demons of the night, and often haunted crossroads. Roadside shrines were often erected to appease them, as they were believed to steal children, cause madness and seizures, and induce men to adultery. The figure of a \"cihuateotl\" from the Metropolitan Museum of Art has been inscribed on top of her head with the name \"Ce Calli\", “1 House,” while the figure from the British Museum is inscribed with the glyph “1 Monkey”—these indicate their respective days of descent.\n\nWhen an Aztec woman experienced childbirth, it was seen as a violent and laborious effort likened to the intensity of battle. It was believed that the child was sent down to the earth by the gods, and the woman had to fight and struggle in order to bring it into the world. The newborn child was seen as a sufficient reward if she was successful and emerged victorious from her “fight” with the gods, but if she lost and proved unsuccessful, then she died and her soul underwent transformation into a \"cihuateotl\".\n\nIn the case of the death of the woman, special funerary practices were carried out, as the body of a woman who had died in childbirth was believed to possess special powers and magic following the departure of the soul from the body. In these special practices, the body was guarded fiercely by an armed entourage that included the widowed husband, his friends, all the midwives, and old women. This was deemed necessary due to the need to protect the woman's human remains from male warriors. Parts of the body believed to be especially potent relics for warriors were the left middle finger and the hair. According to Aztec belief, “these relics had magical power and, if placed on their shields, would make the warriors brave and valiant, give them strength, and blind the eyes of their enemies.”\n\n\"Cihuateteo\" can be characterized as “fearsome figures with clenched, claw-like fists, macabre, bared teeth and gums and aggressive poses.” Sitting with their clawed feet tucked beneath their skirts, they seem at once in repose and ready to attack. In Aztec art, the postpartum female body is often depicted with pendulous breasts and stomach folds. Within the Aztec artistic tradition, \"cihuateteo\" are commonly depicted with taut stomachs, exposed breasts, and prominent nipples. These are all features that serve to highlight their unrealized potential as mothers, as these women died before having the opportunity to bear and nurse their newborn child.\n\nOftentimes, \"cihuateteo\" are also depicted with swirling, unkempt hair and skirts fastened with snake belts. \"Cihuateteo\" figures found at the site of El Zapotal even carry staffs bearing heads as trophies, and seem to be covered with flayed skins, which suggests deference or worship to a female vegetation deity. The serpent around the waist may be a reference to the serpentine goddess Cihuacoatl, who was not only associated with war, sacrifice, and political power, but also with fertility, childbirth, and midwifery. Finally, the unkempt hair is often associated with darkness and the earth. Not only was \"Cihuatlampa\" a place of darkness, but most Aztec associations with the earth (and particularly earth goddesses) symbolize both childbirth and sacrifice, two of the defining traits of the \"cihuateteo\" themselves.\n\n"}
{"id": "2301966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2301966", "title": "Dan Goggin", "text": "Dan Goggin\n\nDan Goggin is an American writer, composer, and lyricist for musical theatre.\n\nGoggin began his career as a singer in the Broadway production of \"Luther\", which starred Albert Finney. He then toured for five years as aa member of the folksinging duo, \"The Saxons\", before writing the music for and appearing in the off-Broadway musical \"Hark!\".\n\nGoggin began composing both music and lyrics for revues satirizing current events, trends, and personalities. He later composed incidental music for the short-lived 1976 Broadway production, \"Legend\", starring Elizabeth Ashley and F. Murray Abraham, which closed after five performances.\n\nGoggin's early life experiences, including schooling by the Marywood Dominican Sisters and his days as a seminarian, influenced him to create his greatest success. A line of greeting cards featuring a nun offering tart quips caught on so quickly that Goggin decided to expand the concept into a cabaret show called \"The Nunsense Story\", which opened for a four-day run at Manhattan's Duplex and remained for 38 weeks, encouraging its creator to expand it into a full-length theater production.\n\nWhat followed was \"Nunsense\" (1985), one of off-Broadway's biggest commercial successes, which ran a total of 3672 performances. By the time it closed, it had become an international phenomenon translated into 21 languages with more than 5000 productions worldwide. Goggin followed it with six sequels, \"Nunsense 2: The Second Coming\", \"Sister Amnesia's Country Western Nunsense Jamboree\", \"Nuncrackers: The Nunsense Christmas Musical\", \"Meshuggah-Nuns!\", \"Nunsensations: The Nunsense Vegas Revue\", and \"Nunset Boulevard\". In 1998 Dan opened an all-male production of \"Nunsense\" entitled N\"unsense A-Men!\" The show played in New York City to rave reviews.\n\nGoggin also wrote the book, music, and lyrics for \"A One-Way Ticket To Broadway\" and \"Balancing Act\", neither of which was as successful as the \"Nunsense\" franchise.\n\n"}
{"id": "5572825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5572825", "title": "David Olère", "text": "David Olère\n\nDavid Olère (January 19, 1902 in Warsaw – August 21, 1985 in Paris) was a Polish-born French painter and sculptor best known for his explicit drawings and paintings based on his experiences as a Jewish \"Sonderkommando\" inmate at Auschwitz concentration camp during World War II.\n\nOlère studied at the Warsaw Academy of Fine Arts, and upon completion of his studies there at the age of 16, moved to Danzig and later Berlin, where he exhibited woodcuts at museums and art houses. In 1921 he was hired by Ernst Lubitsch at the \"Europäische Film Allianz\" to work as a set builder for the film \"Das Weib des Pharao\". Olère also lived in Munich and Heidelberg before moving to Paris in 1923 and settling in Montparnasse, where he designed costumes and publicity posters for Paramount Pictures. In 1930, Olère married Juliette Ventura who gave birth to his son, Alexandre. When war broke out, Olère was drafted into the infantry regiment at Lons-le-Saunier.\n\nOn February 20, 1943, Olère was arrested by French police during a round up of Jews in Seine-et-Oise and placed in Drancy internment camp. On March 2, 1943, he was one of approximately 1,000 Jews deported from Drancy to Auschwitz. From this transport, Olère was one of 119 people selected for work; the rest were gassed shortly after arrival. He was registered as prisoner 106144 and assigned to the \"Sonderkommando\" at Birkenau, the unit of prisoners forced to empty gas chambers and burn the bodies, firstly working in Bunker 2 and later in Crematorium III. In addition to these duties, he was also forced to work as an illustrator, writing and decorating letters for the SS.\n\nOlère remained at Auschwitz until January 19, 1945, when he was taken on the evacuation death march, eventually reaching Mauthausen concentration camp, then the Melk and Ebensee subcamps, from which he made five unsuccessful escape attempts. Following his liberation on May 6, 1945, he learned that his entire family had been exterminated in Warsaw. He subsequently moved back to Paris.\n\nOlère began to draw at Auschwitz during the last days of the camp, when the SS became less attentive. His work has exceptional documentary value: there are no photos of what happened in the gas chambers and crematoria, and Olère was the only artist to have worked as a member of the \"Sonderkommando\" and survived. He was also the first witness to draw plans and cross-sections to explain how the crematoria worked.\n\nOlère felt compelled to capture Auschwitz artistically to illustrate the fate of all those that did not survive. He sometimes depicts himself in his paintings as a ghostly witnessing face in the background. He exhibited his work at the State Museum of Les Invalides and the Grand Palais in Paris, at the Jewish Museum in New York City, at the Berkeley Museum, and in Chicago. He retired from being an artist in 1962, and died in 1985. His widow and son have continued to inform the world about Auschwitz via his artwork.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10621814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10621814", "title": "Dead File", "text": "Dead File\n\nDead File is a file kept by the Ethics section of Scientology organizations on those who have allegedly written the organization a critical letter, those who are declared Potential Trouble Sources and cannot be \"handled\" or disconnected, and those who are declared Suppressive Persons. The policy covering this is HCOPL 7 June 1965 Issue II, \"Entheta Letters and the Dead File, Handling of\". Ethics Dead File is not to be confused with the 'dead file' in Central Files/Addresso for deceased persons.\nThe Church of Scientology has a strict policy of dealing with letters to the organization that are critical. From page 3 of this policy: \"Ethics files shall include a DEAD FILE. This file includes all persons who write nasty or choppy letters to an org or its personnel. Rather than go to the trouble of issuing a suppressive person order or even investigating, we assign writers of choppy letters to the DEAD FILE. When their area is enturbulated or we want to locate a suppressive, we can always consult our DEAD FILE for possible candidates and then investigate and issue an order. The DEAD FILE is by sections of the area or the world and alphabetical in those sections. The actual action is simply to cut comm. You can always let entheta lines drop. Entheta means \"en\" = enturbulated; \"theta\" = thought or life.\"\n\nThere are exceptions to the application of the Dead File policy. From page 4:\"Dead file does \"not\" cover business firms demanding bills, government squawks or dangerous suits or situations. It covers only entheta public letters received on any line including \"SO #1\".\" Letters destined for the Dead File are literally rubber stamped as \"entheta\". \"Receiver stamps it with a big rubber stamp:\n\"ENTHETA\nTo Central Files\nTo Address then\nTo ETHICS DEAD FILES\"\n\nDead Filing is not restricted to just the organization receiving a critical letter, but rather any Scientology organization the sender may correspond with. From page 5: \"Ethics receiving a \"folder or a letter\" marked with the ENTHETA stamp takes the following action: Writes a surface-mail postcard, colored an ugly mustard yellow, to any organizations where the person's name may be part of CF (central files), stamped on the back as follows:\nFrom (name of org)\nENTHETA\nTo Central Files\nTo Address\nTo ETHICS DEAD FILE\nand writes the person's name and address under it. Do NOT put two names on one card. One card = one name.\"\n\nFrom page 6: \"However, if Ethics finds the person is not in its DEAD FILE and all it has received is a card, ETHICS makes a folder and puts the card in it. That way the DEAD FILE of an org tells one that there is other material in another org and knows what org.\"\n\nEthics personnel are not to verify the accuracy of the Dead File label because the system of management is \"fast flow\".\n\"Ethics does not even bother to read the letter or examine the folder on receiving a DEAD FILE folder or letter. This is, after all, a fast flow system of management. With the DEAD FILE system, one just parks the name in a folder in the DEAD FILES as inactive until there is \"a reason\" to do otherwise.\"\n\nFrom page 7: \"It is the \"full\" intention that:\n\n1. \"All\" choppy, nattery rumormongery letters dead-end in the DEAD FILE. 2. That no further magazines or procurement letters go to the person. 3. That no staff personnel be enturbulated by the content of such letters. 4. That the line be cut completely. 5. That a record remain in Ethics.\"\n\nEven if the sender of a past critical letter writes a friendly letter thereafter, that sender is still kept in the Dead File as Hubbard believed that these people were \"mad dogs\" who \"don't change their froth\" unless \"released\" or \"cleared\".\n\"When a Letter Reg, in answering some letter, calls for the folder and finds it is a mustard-colored DEAD FILE DUMMY, the letter to be answered is simply stamped with the above entheta stamp no matter \"what\" it says, and is routed with the dummy on through as though it were an entheta letter regardless of what he new letter says. Short of releasing and clearing, these mad dogs don't change their froth.\"\n\nSP names are also put into the Dead File and given an additional rubber stamp. From page 8: \"All suppressive persons and groups are filed in the DEAD FILE but with the Ethics Order. The Ethics Order is stamped with the ENTHETA stamp as above but with the additional stamp \"Suppressive\".\"\n\nPotential Trouble Sources are spared the Dead File if they handle or disconnect from the SP.\"A potential trouble source order is not given the entheta DEAD FILE routing unless the person refuses to disconnect or handle. At this time the person's name is put on a despatch stamped with the entheta stamp and is routed to CF (central files), etc., as above. Sometimes a PTS refusing to disconnect is declared suppressive and in such a case it is handled as an SP above.\"\n\nThose who are Dead Filed are never informed of that action. Getting out of the Dead File is at the discretion of the Ethics Officer. From page 9: \"How does a person ever get out of the Dead File? One could somehow discover without our help he or she was in the dead file (we never inform them). If so, he or she could take it up with the Ethics Officer. But the probable outcome may just be more Dead File.\"\n\nA report from a former Scientology staff member says that in the period of one year, over 1200 complaint letters were disposed of by using the Dead File policy in a Scientology organization.\n\nThe Scientology policy, \"Entheta Letters and the Dead File, Handling of\" was cited as an exhibit in the New Zealand government inquiry into Scientology called the Dumbleton-Powles Report.\n\nHCOPL 7 June 1965 Issue II, \"Entheta Letters and the Dead File, Handling of\"\n\nHCOPL 22 August 1966 Issue I, \"Dead File: Restoration to Good Standing\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4766869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4766869", "title": "Dokkōdō", "text": "Dokkōdō\n\nThe \"Dokkōdō\" (\"The Path of Aloneness\", \"The Way to Go Forth Alone\", or \"The Way of Walking Alone\"), is a short work written by Miyamoto Musashi () a week before he died in 1645. It consists of 21 precepts. \"Dokkodo\" was largely composed on the occasion of Musashi giving away his possessions in preparation for death, and was dedicated to his favorite disciple, Terao Magonojō (to whom the earlier \"Go rin no sho\" [\"The Book of Five Rings\"] had also been dedicated), who took them to heart. \"Dokkōdō\" expresses a stringent, honest, and ascetic view of life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38665475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38665475", "title": "Evangelical and Reformed Church in Honduras", "text": "Evangelical and Reformed Church in Honduras\n\nThe Evangelical and Reformed Church in Honduras is a Reformed denomination established in the first half of the 20th century in the country of Honduras, that holds to the Presbyterian church government.\n\nThis church was founded by the Evangelical and Reformed Church in the United States. In July 8, 1917 Ramon Guzman Montes in Washington, D.C. showed up the Evangelical Synod of North America to request to send missionaries to Honduras.\n\n\nThe church has 53 congregations in Honduras.\n\nThe denomination maintains the Evangelical and Reformed Theological Seminary in San Pedro Sula.\n\n"}
{"id": "8738430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8738430", "title": "Hindu views on evolution", "text": "Hindu views on evolution\n\nHinduism includes a range of viewpoints about the origin of life, creationism and evolution. There is no single story of creation, due to dynamic diversity of Hinduism, and these are derived from various sources like Vedas, some from the Brahmanas, some from Puranas; some are philosophical, based on concepts, and others are narratives. The Rigveda mentions the \"Hiranyagarbha\" (\"golden embryo\") as the source of the creation of the Universe, similar to the world egg motif found in the creation myths of many other civilizations. It also contains a myth of proto-Indo-European origin, in which the creation arises out of the dismemberment of a cosmic being (the Purusha) who is sacrificed by the gods. As for the creation of the primordial gods themselves, the Nasadiya Sukta of Rigveda takes a near-agnostic stand, stating that the Gods came into being after the world's creation, and nobody knows when the world first came into being. In the later Puranic texts, the creator god Brahma is described as performing the act of 'creation', or more specifically of 'propagating life within the universe'. Some texts consider him equivalent to the Hiranyagarbha or the Purusha, while others state that he arose out of these. Brahma is a part of the trinity of gods that also includes Vishnu and Shiva, who are responsible for 'preservation' and 'destruction' (of the universe) respectively. \n\nMany Hindu texts mention the cycle of creation and destruction. The Shatapatha Brahmana states that the current human generation descends from Manu, the only man who survived a great deluge after being warned by the God. This legend is comparable to the other flood legends, such as the story of the Noah's Ark mentioned in the Bible and the Quran.\n\nHindus find support for, or foreshadowing of evolutionary ideas in scriptures. For example, the concept of Dashavatara can be seen as having some similarities to Charles Darwin's theory of evolution.The first incarnation of Vishnu in the form of a fish resembles the evolutionary origin of fish in the Silurian Period.\n\nIn a survey of 909 people, 77% of its respondents in India agreed that enough scientific evidence exists to support Charles Darwin’s Theory of Evolution, and 85% of God-believing people said they agree with evolution as well. According to the survey conducted by Pew Forum in the United States, 80% of Hindus agree that evolution is the best explanation for the origin of human life on earth. However, in India, there were minimal references to Darwinism in the 1800s. Elements of Victorian England opposed the idea of Darwinism. Hindus already had present notion of common ancestry between humans and animals. The Hindu dharma believes that the gods have animal features, showing a theory that humans can be reborn again as animals or with their features.\n\nAccording to Hindu creationism all species on earth including humans have \"devolved\" or come down from a high state of pure consciousness. Hindu creationists claim that species of plants and animals are material forms adopted by pure consciousness which live an endless cycle of births and rebirths. Ronald Numbers says that: \"Hindu Creationists have insisted on the antiquity of humans, who they believe appeared fully formed as long, perhaps, as trillions of years ago.\" Hindu creationism is a form of old earth creationism. According to Hindu creationists the universe may even be older than billions of years. These views are based on the Vedas which depict an extreme antiquity of the universe and history of the earth.\n\nHinduism is a conglomeration of distinct intellectual or philosophical points of view, rather than a rigid common set of beliefs. As a result, the Hindu texts do not provide a single canonical account of the creation; they mention a range of theories of the creation of the world, some of which are contradictory.\n\nThe Purusha Sukta of the earliest Hindu text Rigveda mentions Purusha, primeval cosmic being. Purusha is described as all that has ever existed and will ever exist. This being's body was the origin of four different kinds of people: the Brahmin, the Rajanya, the Vaishya, and the Shudra. Viraj, variously interpreted as the mundane egg (see Hiranyagarbha) or the twofold male-female energy, was born from Purusha, and the Purusha was born again from Viraj. The gods then performed a yajna with the Purusha, leading to the creation of the other things in the manifested world from his various body parts and his mind. These things included the animals, the Vedas, the Varnas, the celestial bodies, the air, the sky, the heavens, the earth, the directions, and the Gods Indra and Agni. It is likely that this myth has proto-Indo-European origins, as it is similar to other myths found in the Indo-European cultures, in which the creation arises out of the dismemberment of a divine being (cf. Ymir of the Norse mythology).\n\nThe concept of Purusha is similar to the concept of Brahman described in the later texts. As for the creation of the primordial beings (such as the gods who performed the sacrifice of the Purusha), the Nasadiya Sukta states:\n\nRigveda (10.121) also mentions the Hiranyagarbha (literally, golden embryo/womb/egg) that existed before the creation. This metaphor has been interpreted differently by the various later texts. The Samkhya texts state that Purusha and the Prakriti made the embryo, from which the world emerged. In another tradition, the creator god Brahma emerged from the egg and created the world, while in yet another tradition the Brahma himself is the Hiranyagarbha. The nature of the Purusha, the creation of the gods and other details of the embryo creation myth have been described variously by the later Hindu texts.\n\nThe early hymns of Rigveda also mention Tvastar as the first born creator of the human world.\n\nRecounting the creation of gods, the Rig Veda does seem to affirm ‘’creatio ex nihilo’’. Rig Veda 10.72 states:\n\nThe Shatapatha Brahmana mentions a story of creation, in which the Prajapati performs tapas to reproduce himself. He releases the waters and enters them in the form of an egg that evolves into the cosmos. The Prajapati emerged from the golden egg, and created the earth, the middle regions and the sky. With further tapas, he created the devas. He also created the asuras, and the darkness came into the being. It also contains a story similar to the other great flood stories. After the great flood, Manu the only surviving human, offers a sacrifice from which Ida is born. From her, the existing human race comes into the being.\n\nThe Aitareya Upanishad (3.4.1) mentions that only the \"Atman\" (the Self) existed in the beginning. The Self created the heaven (\"Ambhas\"), the sky (\"Marikis\"), the earth (\"Mara\") and the underworld (\"Ap\"). He then formed the Purusha from the water. He also created the speech, the fire, the prana (breath of life), the air and the various senses, the directions, the trees, the mind, the moon and other things.\n\nThe Brihadaranyaka Upanishad (1.4) mentions that in the beginning, only the Atman existed as the Purusha. Feeling lonely, the Purusha divided itself into two parts: male (\"pati\") and female (\"patni\"). The men were born when the male embraced the female. The female thought \"how can he embrace me, after having produced me from himself? I shall hide myself.\" She then became a cow to hide herself, but the male became a bull and embraced her. Thus the cows were born. Similarly, everything that exists in pairs, was created. Next, the Purusha created the fire, the soma and the immortal gods (the devas) from his better part. He also created the various powers of the gods, the different classes, the dharma (law or duty) and so on. The Taittiriya Upanishad states that the being (\"sat\") was created from the non-being. The Being later became the \"Atman\" (2.7.1), and then created the worlds (1.1.1). The Chhandogya states that the Brahma creates, sustains and destroys the world.\n\nBelief in evolution is among the Samkhya philosophy. In the Samkhya philosophy, evolution is symbolized by the Sanskrit term parinama. Many Hindu reformers compare this term and philosophy with Darwinism. The prominent Vivekananda, based most of his cosmological and biological ideas off of the Samkhya. The Samkhya texts state that there are two distinct fundamental eternal entities: the Purusha and the Prakriti. The Prakriti has three qualities: \"sattva\" (purity or preservation), \"rajas\" (creation) and \"tamas\" (darkness or destruction). When the equilibrium between these qualities gets broken, the act of creation starts. \"Rajas\" quality leads to creation.\n\nThe later texts such as the Puranas identify the Purusha with the God. In many Puranic notes, Brahma is the creator god. However, some Puranas also identify Vishnu, Shiva or Devi as the creator.\n\nIn Garuda Purana, there was nothing in the universe except the Brahman. The universe became an expanse of water, and in that Vishnu was born in the golden egg. He created Brahma with four faces. Brahma then created the devas, asuras, pitris and manushas. He also created the rakshasas, yakshas, gandharvas. Other creatures came from the various parts of his body (e.g. snakes from his hair, sheep from his chest, goats from his mouth, cows from his stomach, others from feet). His body hair became the herbs. The four varnas came from his body parts and the four Vedas from his mouths. He created several sons from his mind, Daksha, Daksha's wife, Manu Svaymbhuva, his wife Shatarupta and the rishi Kashypa. Kashypata married thirrteen of Daksha's daughter and all the devas and the createures were born through them. Other Puranas and the Manu Smriti mention several variations of this theory.\n\nIn Vishnu Purana, the Purusha is same as the creator deity Brahma, and is a part of Vishnu. The Shaivite texts mention the Hiranyagarbha as a creation of Shiva. According to the Devi-Bhagavata Purana Purusha and Prakriti emerged together and formed the Brahman, the supreme universal spirit that is the origin and support of the universe.\n\nThe Advaita Vedanta states that the creation arises from Brahman, but it is illusory and has no reality. (Vivarta)\n\nMany Hindu philosophies mention that the creation is cyclic. According to the Upanishads, the universe and the Earth, along with humans and other creatures, undergo repeated cycles (\"pralaya\") of creation and destruction. A variety of myths exist regarding the specifics of the process, but in general the Hindu view of the cosmos is as eternal and cyclic. The later puranic view also asserts that the universe is created, destroyed, and re-created in an eternally repetitive series of cycles. In Hindu cosmology, a universe endures for about 4,320,000,000 years (one day of Brahma, the creator or \"kalpa\") and is then destroyed by fire or water elements. At this point, Brahma rests for one night, just as long as the day. This process, called \"pralaya\" (cataclysm), repeats for 100 Brahma years (311 trillion, 40 billion human years) that represents Brahma's lifespan.\n\nMost Hindus accept the theory of biological evolution. They either regard the scriptural creation theories as allegories and metaphors, or reconcile these legends with the modern theory of evolution.\n\nThe order of the Dashavatara (ten principal avatars of the god Vishnu) is interpreted to convey Darwin's evolution. British geneticist and evolutionary biologist J. B. S. Haldane opined that they are a true sequential depiction of the great unfolding of evolution. Like the evolutionary process itself, the first avatar of God is a fish - Matsya, then comes the aquatic reptile turtle, Kurma, then a mammal - the boar Varaha, then Narasimha, a man-lion being, Vamana, the dwarf then the rest four are humans; Kalki is not yet born. Various thinkers and authors like Helena Blavatsky, Monier Monier-Williams, Nabinchandra Sen, C. D. Deshmukh have associated the Dashavatara with evolution.\n\nThe Sanskrit epics of the Hindus mention several exotic creatures including ape-like humanoids. Some Hindus see this as a proof of the historicity of their mythological characters and as support for the theory of evolution in their texts. The Ramayana speaks of the Vanaras, an ape-like species with human intelligence, that existed millions of years ago. According to the Ramayana alongside these ape-men existed modern humans. Thus, according to these ancient writings, the status of such creatures was a state of coexistence rather than evolution.\n\nWhile the Creation–evolution controversy has seen much debate in the US and other countries, it is an insignificant issue in India, because of its Hindu-majority population. Hindus are among many faiths that have expressed apprehension about efforts to teach Christian creationism in public schools in the US. One objection to the teaching of creationism based on the religious texts of a particular faith is that in a pluralistic society this can result in the imposition of one religion.\n\n\nHinduism and Science\n\nHare Krishna\n"}
{"id": "307360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=307360", "title": "Hinduism in Southeast Asia", "text": "Hinduism in Southeast Asia\n\nHinduism in Southeast Asia has a profound impact on the region's cultural development and its history. As the Indic scripts were introduced from India, people of Southeast Asia entered the historical period by producing their earliest inscriptions around the 1st to 5th century CE.\n\nHindu civilization also transformed and shaped the social construct and statehood of Southeast Asian regional polity. Through the formation of Indianized kingdoms, small indigenous polities led by petty chieftain were transformed into major kingdoms and empires led by a maharaja with statecraft concept akin to those in India. It gave birth to the former Champa civilisation in southern parts of Central Vietnam, Funan in Cambodia, the Khmer Empire in Indochina, Langkasuka Kingdom and Old Kedah in the Malay Peninsula, the Sriwijayan kingdom on Sumatra, the Medang kingdom, Singhasari and the Majapahit Empire based in Java, Bali, and parts of the Philippine archipelago. The civilisation of India influenced the languages, scripts, written tradition, literatures, calendars, beliefs system and artistic aspects of these peoples and nations.\n\nIndian scholars wrote about the Dwipantara or Jawa Dwipa Hindu kingdom in Java and Sumatra around 200 BC. \"Yawadvipa\" is mentioned in India's earliest epic, the Ramayana. Sugriva, the chief of Rama's army dispatched his men to Yawadvipa, the island of Java, in search of Sita. It was hence referred to in Indian by the Sanskrit name \"yāvaka dvīpa\" (dvīpa = island). Southeast Asia was frequented by traders from eastern India, particularly Kalinga, as well as from the kingdoms of South India.\n\nThe Indianised Tarumanagara kingdom was established in West Java around 400s, produced among the earliest inscriptions in Indonesian history. There was a marked Buddhist influence starting about 425 in the region. Around the 6th century, Kalingga Indianized kingdom was established in norther coast of Central Java. The kingdom name was derived from Kalinga east coast of India. These Southeast Asian seafaring peoples engaged in extensive trade with India and China. Which attracted the attention of the Mongols, Chinese and Japanese, as well as Islamic traders, who reached the Aceh area of Sumatra in the 12th century.\n\nExamples of the Hindu cultural influence found today throughout the Southeast Asia owe much to the legacy of the Chola dynasty. For example, the great temple complex at Prambanan in Indonesia exhibit a number of similarities with the South Indian architecture.\n\nAccording to the Malay chronicle \"Sejarah Melayu\", the rulers of the Malacca sultanate claimed to be descendants of the kings of the Chola Empire.Chola rule is remembered in Malaysia today as many princes there have names ending with Cholan or Chulan,one such being Raja Chulan, the Raja of Perak.\n\nThe Chola school of art also spread to Southeast Asia and influenced the architecture and art of Southeast Asia.\n\nSome scholars have pointed out that the legends of Ikshvaku and Sumati may have their origin in the Southeast-Asian myth of the birth of humanity from a bitter gourd. The legend of Sumati, the wife of King Sagar, tells that she produced offspring with the aid of a bitter gourd.\n\nToday, vibrant Hindu communities remain in Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, Medan city of Indonesia and the Philippines mainly due to the presence of Indians, such as Tamil people, who migrated from the Indian sub-continent to Southeast Asia in past centuries. One notably Southeast Asian aspect of Tamil Hinduism is the festival of Thaipusam, while other Hindu religious festivals such as Diwali are also well-observed by Hindus in the region. In Thailand and Cambodia, Thai and Khmer people practised Hindu rituals and traditions along with their Buddhist faith, and Hindu gods such as Brahma are still widely revered.\n\nIn Indonesia, it is not only people of Indian descent who practice Hinduism; Hinduism still survives as the major religion in Bali, where native Indonesians, the Balinese people, adheres to Agama Hindu Dharma, a variant of Hinduism derived from ancient Java-Bali Hindu traditions developed in the island for almost two millennia that often incorporates native spiritual elements. Other than the Balinese, a small enclave of Javanese Hindu minorities are also can be found in Java, such as around Tengger mountain ranges near Bromo and Semeru volcanoes, Karanganyar Regency in Central Java, and near Prambanan, Yogyakarta. Similarly, Hinduism is also found among the Cham minority in Southern Vietnam and Cambodia: just like the Javanese, the majority of them are Muslims but a minority are Hindu. In other parts of Indonesia, the term \"Hindu Dharma\" is often loosely used as umbrella category to identify native spiritual beliefs and indigenous religions such as Hindu Kaharingan professed by Dayak of Kalimantan.\n\nThe resurgence of Hinduism in Indonesia is occurring in all parts of the country. In the early 1970s, the Toraja people of Sulawesi were the first to be identified under the umbrella of 'Hinduism', followed by the Karo Batak of Sumatra in 1977 and the Ngaju Dayak of Kalimantan in 1980. In an unpublished report in 1999, the National Indonesian Bureau of Statistics admitted that around 100,000 people had officially converted or 'reconverted' from Islam to Hinduism over the previous two decades.\nThe Ministry of Religious Affairs, as of 2007 estimates there to be at least 10 million Hindus in Indonesia.\n\nThe growth of Hinduism has been driven also by the famous Javanese prophesies of Sabdapalon and Jayabaya. Many recent converts to Hinduism had been members of the families of Sukarno's PNI, and now support Megawati Sukarnoputri. This return to the 'religion of Majapahit' (Hinduism) is a matter of nationalist pride.\n\nNext to Indonesian Balinese, today, the Balamon Cham are the only surviving native (non-Indic) Hindus in Southeast Asia. In Vietnam there are roughly 160,000 members of the Cham ethnic minority, majority of them adheres Hinduism while some are Muslims. After centuries being dominated by Kinh (Vietnamese), today there are some effort to revive Cham culture.\n\nCambodia was first influenced by Hinduism during the beginning of the Kingdom of Funan. Hinduism was one of the Khmer Empire's official religions. Cambodia is the home of the holy temple of Angkor Wat, the largest Hindu temple in the world. The main religion adhered in Khmer kingdom was Hinduism, followed by Buddhism in popularity. Initially the kingdom revered Hinduism as the main state religion. Vishnu and Shiva were the most revered deities, worshipped in Khmer Hindu temples. Temples such as Angkor Wat are actually known as \"Preah Pisnulok\" (\"Vara Vishnuloka\" in Sanskrit) or the realm of Vishnu, to honour the posthumous King Suryavarman II as Vishnu. Hindu ceremonies and rituals performed by Brahmins (Hindu priests), usually only held among ruling elites of the king's family, nobles, and the ruling class.\n\nThe Khmer Empire has developed a complex society where sophisticated culture, art and architecture flourish. The Khmer king and his officials were in charge of irrigation management and water distribution, which consisted of an intricate series of hydraulics infrastructure, such as canals, moats, and massive reservoirs called \"barays\". Society was arranged in a hierarchy reflecting the Hindu caste system, where the commoners — rice farmers and fishermen — formed the large majority of the population. The kshatriyas — royalty, nobles, warlords, soldiers, and warriors — formed a governing elite and authorities. Other social classes included brahmins (priests), traders, artisans such as carpenters and stonemasons, potters, metalworkers, goldsmiths, and textile weavers, while on the lowest social level are slaves. The extensive irrigation projects provided rice surpluses that could support a large population. The state religion was Hinduism but influenced by the cult of Devaraja, elevating the Khmer kings as possessing the divine quality of living gods on earth, attributed to the incarnation of Vishnu or Shiva. In politics, this status was viewed as the divine justification of a king's rule. The cult enabled the Khmer kings to embark on massive architectural projects, constructing majestic monuments such as Angkor Wat and Bayon to celebrate the king's divine rule on earth.\n\nThe empire's official religions included Hinduism and Mahayana Buddhism until Theravada Buddhism prevailed, even among the lower classes, after its introduction from Sri Lanka in the 13th century. Since then, Hinduism slowly declined in Cambodia, and finally being replaced by Theravadan Buddhist as the major faith in the kingdom. Despite this, hindu rituals continue to play an important role in the kingdom. Like in the neighboring Thailand, the ceremony of coronation is conducted mostly by royal brahmins, during which the sovereign swears in front of the idols of gods Vishnu and Shiva to maintain the ancient national traditions.\n\nToday in Indonesia, Hinduism is practised by 3% of the total population, they constitute 92.29% of the population of Bali and 15.75% of the population of Central Kalimantan, as of the 2000 census. However, between the 4th century to 15th century, Hinduism and Buddhism was adhered by the majority of the population, along with native indigenous animism and dynamism beliefs that venerated natural and ancestral spirits. By 15th to 16th-century Islam had supplanted Hinduism and Buddhism as the majority religion in Indonesian archipelago. The influence of Hinduism has profoundly left its marks on the culture of Bali, Java and Sumatra. Bali has become the last remnant of once Hindu dominated region.\n\nHindu influences reached the Indonesian Archipelago as early as first century. In 4th-century, the kingdom of Kutai in East Kalimantan, Tarumanagara in West Java, and Holing (Kalingga) in Central Java, were among the early Hindu states established in the region. Several notable ancient Indonesian Hindu kingdoms are Mdang i Bhumi Mataram, famous for the construction of the majestic 9th-century Trimurti Prambanan temple, followed by Kediri, Singosari, and reached the peak of its influence in the 14th-century Majapahit, the last and largest among Hindu-Buddhist Javanese empires.\nThe Hindu civilisations has left its marks in Indonesian culture. The epics \"Mahabharata\" and \"Ramayana\", became enduring traditions among Indonesian artforms, expressed in wayang shadow puppet and dance performances. Many Indonesian names are Sanskrit-based, and Bahasa Indonesia contains loads of loandwords of Sanskrit origin. The vehicle of Vishnu, Garuda, was adopted as both national emblem Garuda Pancasila and flag carrier national airline named Garuda Indonesia.\n\nToday, the Indonesian government has recognised Hinduism as one of the country's six officially sanctioned religions, along with Islam, Protestantism, Roman Catholicism, Buddhism and Confucianism.\n\nThe new Hindu communities in Java tend to be concentrated around recently built temples (\"pura\") or around archaeological temple sites (\"candi\") which are being reclaimed as places of Hindu worship. An important new Hindu temple in eastern Java is Pura Mandaragiri Sumeru Agung, located on the slope of Mt. Semeru, Java's highest mountain. Mass conversions have also occurred in the region around Pura Agung Blambangan, another new temple, built on a site with minor archaeological remnants attributed to the Kingdom of Blambangan, the last Hindu polity on Java, and Pura Loka Moksa Jayabaya (in the village of Menang near Kediri), where the Hindu king and prophet Jayabaya is said to have achieved spiritual liberation (\"moksa\"). Another site is the new Pura Pucak Raung in East Java, which is mentioned in Balinese literature as the place from where Maharishi Markandeya took Hinduism to Bali in the 5th century.\n\nAn example of resurgence around major archaeological remains of ancient Hindu temple sites was observed in Trowulan near Mojokerto, the capital of the legendary Hindu empire Majapahit. A local Hindu movement is struggling to gain control of a newly excavated temple building which they wish to see restored as a site of active Hindu worship. The temple is to be dedicated to Gajah Mada, the man attributed with transforming the small Hindu kingdom of Majapahit into an empire. Although there has been a more pronounced history of resistance to Islamization in East Java, Hindu communities are also expanding in Central Java near the ancient Hindu monuments of Prambanan. The current estimates of Hinduism in Indonesia range from 4 to 8 percent.\n\nHinduism in Laos\n\nHinduism make less than 0.1% of the population of Laos.\nApproximately 7,000 People of Laos are Hindus.\n\nIn Ancient Time Laos used to be a part of Ancient Hindu Empire Khmer Empire. The Wat Phou is one of the last influences of that period. The Laotian adaptation of the Ramayana is called \"Phra Lak Phra Lam\".\n\nHinduism is the fourth largest religion in Malaysia. About 1.78 million Malaysian residents (6.3% of the total population) are Hindus, according to 2010 Census of Malaysia.\n\nMost Malaysian Hindus are settled in western parts of Peninsular Malaysia. Indian Hindus and Buddhists began arriving in Malaysia during ancient and medieval era. A large number of Hindus from South India were brought to Malaysia by British colonial empire during the 19th and 20th century, as indentured labourers to work on coffee and sugarcane plantations and tin mining; later they were deployed in large numbers, along with Chinese Buddhists, on rubber plantations. The British \"kangani\" system of recruitment, designed to reduce labour turnover and enhance labour stability, encouraged Hindu workers to recruit friends and family from India to work in British operations in Malaysia. The kangani system brought numerous Tamil Hindus into Malaysia by early 1900s. By 1950s, about 12.8% of Malaysian population professed to be a Hindu.\n\nAfter Malaysia gained its independence from British colonial empire in 1957, it declared its official state religion as Islam, and adopted a discriminatory constitution as well as the Sedition Act of 1971 which limited public debate on Malaysia's treatment of religion, language and citizenship policies. In recent decades, there have been increasing reports of religious persecution of Hindus, along with other minority religions, by various state governments of Malaysia and its Sharia courts. Hindu temples built on private property, and built long before Malaysian independence, have been demolished by Malaysian government officials in recent years. Since the 1970s, there has been large scale emigration of Hindus (along with Buddhists and Christians) from Malaysia.\n\nMalaysian Hindus celebrate Deepavali (festival of lights), Thaipusam (Lord Murugan festival), Pongal (harvest festival) and Navaratri (Durga festival).\n\nHinduism in Burma is practised by about 840,000 people. Because a reliable census has not been taken in Burma since colonial times, estimates are approximate. Most Hindus in Myanmar are Burmese Indians. In modern Myanmar, most Hindus are found in the urban centres of Yangon and Mandalay. Ancient Hindu temples are present in other parts of Burma, such as the 11th century Nathlaung Kyaung Temple dedicated to Vishnu in Bagan. Hinduism in Myanmar has also been influenced by Buddhism with many Hindu temples in Myanmar housing statues of the Buddha.\n\nAspects of Hinduism continue in Burma today, even in the majority Buddhist culture. For example, Thagyamin is worshipped whose origins are in the Hindu god Indra. Burmese literature has also been enriched by Hinduism, including the Burmese adaptation of the Ramayana, called Yama Zatdaw. Many Hindu gods are likewise worshipped by many Burmese people, such as Saraswati (known as Thuyathadi in Burmese), the goddess of knowledge, who is often worshipped before examinations; Shiva is called \"Paramizwa\"; Vishnu is called \"Withano\", and others. Many of these ideas are part of thirty seven Nat or deities found in Burmese culture.\n\nBefore the arrival of an Arab trader to Sulu Island in 1450 and Ferdinand Magellan, who sailed in behalf of Spain in 1521, the chiefs of many Philippine islands were called \"Rajas\", and the script was derived from Brahmi. Karma, a Hindu concept is understood as part of the traditional view of the universe by many Philippine peoples, and have counterparts such as \"kalma\" in the Pampangan language, and Gabâ in Visayan languages. The vocabulary in all Philippine languages reflect Hindu influences.\n\nThere are smaller number of followers of Hinduism today at 0.1% of the Philippine population.\n\nToday, there is a \"Hindu Temple\" (attended mostly by Sindhīs) on Mahatma Gandhi Street and a \"Khalsa Diwan Indian Sikh Temple\" (attended mostly by Sikhs) on United Nations Avenue. Both are in Manila city's Paco-Pandacan area, the traditional Indian enclave, and are about 15 minutes walk away from each other. As per estimate there are 22 gurudwāras all over the Philippines today, although most of the adherents are Indians, Sri Lankans and Nepalese. There are various Hare Krishna groups in the country that are gaining in popularity.\n\nThe introduction of Hinduism into Singapore dates back to the early 10th century, during the Chola period. Immigrants from southern India, mostly Tamils, arrived as labourers for the British East India Company, bringing with them their religion and culture. Their arrival saw the building of Dravidian temples throughout the island, and the beginnings of a vibrant Hindu culture. The first temple, Sri Mariamman Temple in Singapore's Chinatown. There are currently about thirty main temples in Singapore, dedicated to various gods and goddesses from the Hindu pantheon. Today, two government bodies deal with all Hindu affairs: The Hindu Endowments Board and The Hindu Advisory Board.\n\nHindus are a minority in Singapore, comprising about 5.1% of its citizens and permanent residents in 2010. Among 15 years or older population, there were about 158,000 Hindus; 37% of all Hindus in Singapore speak Tamil at home, another 42% speak English. Deepavali is a major Hindu festival and a public holiday observed in Singapore.\n\nA number of Hindus remain in Thailand. They are mostly located in the cities. In the past, the nation came under the influence of the Khmer Empire, which had strong Hindu roots. Despite the fact that today Thailand is a Buddhist majority nation, many elements of Thai culture and symbolism demonstrates Hindu influences and heritage. For example, the popular epic, Ramakien, is based on the Ramayana. The Royal emblem of Thailand depicted Garuda, the vahana (vehicle) of Vishnu.\n\nThe Thai city, Ayutthaya near Bangkok, is named after Ayodhya, the birthplace of Rama. Numerous rituals derived from Brahmanism are preserved in rituals, such as use of holy strings and pouring of water from conch shells. Furthermore, Hindu deities are worshipped by many Thais alongside Buddhism, such as Brahma at the famous Erawan Shrine, and statues of Ganesh, Indra, and Shiva, as well as numerous symbols relating to Hindu deities are found, e.g., Garuda, a symbol of the monarchy. Reliefs in temple walls, such as the 12th-century \"Prasat Sikhoraphum\" near Surin (Thailand), show a dancing Shiva, with smaller images of Parvati, Vishnu, Brahma and Ganesha.\n\nThe Devasathan is a Hindu temple established in 1784 by King Rama I. The temple is the centre of Brahminism in Thailand. The royal court Brahmins operate the temple, they perform several royal ceremonies per year.\n\nAn annual Giant Swing ceremony known as \"Triyampavai-Tripavai\" was held in major cities of Thailand until 1935, when it was abolished for safety reasons. The name of the ceremony was derived from the names of two Tamil language Hindu chants: \"Thiruvempavai\" and \"Thiruppavai\". It is known that Tamil verses from \"Thiruvempavai\" — \"poet pratu sivalai\" (\"opening the portals of Shiva's home\") — were recited at this ceremony, as well as the coronation ceremony of the Thai king. According to T.P. Meenakshisundaram, the name of the festival indicates that Thiruppavai might have been recited as well. The swinging ceremony depicted a legend about how the god created the world. Outside shops, particularly in towns and rural areas, statues of Nang Kwak as the deity of wealth, fortune and prosperity (version of Lakshmi) are found.\n\nThe elite, and the royal household, often employ Brahmins to mark funerals and state ceremonies such as the Royal Ploughing Ceremony to ensure a good harvest. The importance of Hinduism cannot be denied, even though much of the rituals has been combined with Buddhism.\n\nAccording to the Thai Census of 2005, there are 52,631 Hindus living in Thailand, making up just 0.09% of the total population.\n\nThe first recorded religion of the Champa was a form of Shaiva Hinduism, brought by sea from India. Hinduism was the predominant religion among the Cham people until the sixteenth century. Numerous temples dedicated to Shiva were constructed in the central part of what is now Vietnam. The mainly Hindu Óc Eo archeological site in Mekong River Delta in southern Vietnam, dates back to 7th century and earlier. The Champa civilisation was located in the more southern part of what is today Central Vietnam, and was a highly Indianized Hindu Kingdom, practising a form of Shaivite Hinduism brought by sea from India. Mỹ Sơn, a Hindu temple complex in central Vietnam built by the Cham people is still standing albeit in ruins in Quảng Nam Province, in Vietnam. Since the 15th century under the growing Vietnamese kingdom from the north, Champa was conquered and reduced as a polity. The Chams were subsequently absorbed by the Vietnamese and today are recognised as one of the many ethnic minorities of Vietnam.\n\nThe \"Chams Balamon\" (Hindu Brahmin Chams) form a majority of the Cham population in Vietnam while most of the remainder are \"Cham Bani\" followers of Islam. The term Balamon is considered to have been derived from Brahmin, however another study suggests that 70% are considered to descend from the Nagavamshi Kshatriya caste (pronounced in Cham(?) as \"Satrias\"), and claim to be the descendants of the Champa Empire. In any case a sizeable proportion of the Balamon Hindu Cham are considered Brahmins.\n\nHindu temples known as \"Bimong\" in the Cham language and the priests \"Halau Tamunay Ahier\".\n\nThe exact number of Hindus in Vietnam are not published in Government census, but there are estimated to be at least 50,000 Balamon Hindus, with another 4,000 Hindus living in Ho Chi Minh City; most of whom are of Indian (Tamil) or of mixed Indian-Vietnamese descent. The Mariamman Temple is one of the most notable Tamil Hindu temples in Ho Chi Minh City. Ninh Thuan and Binh Thuan Provinces are where most of the Cham ethnic group (~65%) in Vietnam reside according to the last population census. Cham Balamon (Hindu Cham) in Ninh Thuan numbered 32,000 in 2002 inhabiting 15 of 22 Cham villages. If this population composition is typical for the Cham population of Vietnam as a whole then approximately 60% of Chams in Vietnam are Hindu.\n\nHinduism is practised by the ethnic Cham people of Vietnam, particularly in the Ninh Thuan province (22%) and Binh Thuan (4.8%).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25341948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25341948", "title": "Hiyoshi-zukuri", "text": "Hiyoshi-zukuri\n\n, also called or is a rare Shinto shrine architectural style presently found in only three instances, all at Hiyoshi Taisha in Ōtsu, Shiga, hence the name. They are the East and West and the . \nIt is characterized by a hip-and gable roof with verandas called \"hisashi\" on the sides. It has a \"hirairi\" structure, that is, the building has its main entrance on the side which runs parallel to the roof's ridge (non gabled-side). \n\nThe building is composed of a 3x2 \"ken\" core called \"moya\" surrounded on three sides by a 1-\"ken\" wide \"hisashi\", totaling 5x3 \"ken\" (see photo). The three-sided \"hisashi\" is unique and typical of this style. The gabled roof extends in small porticos on the front and the two gabled sides. The roof on the back has a characteristic shape (see photo below).\n"}
{"id": "32396918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32396918", "title": "Hyperuranion", "text": "Hyperuranion\n\nHyperuranion or topos hyperuranios (, accusative of ὑπερουράνιος τόπος, \"place beyond heaven\") is alternately a concept used by Plato to mean a perfect realm of Forms. The Hyperuranion, which is also called Platonic realm, is a place in heaven where all ideas of real things are collected together. This is within Plato's view that the idea of a phenomenon is beyond the realm of real phenomena and that everything we experience in our lives is merely a copy of the perfect model that exists in the hyperuranion. \n\nSocrates also cited the concept of hyperuranion, describing it as higher than the gods since their divinity depended on the knowledge of the hyperuranion beings.\n\nThe hyperuranion doctrine is also a later medieval concept that claims God within the empyrean exists outside of heaven and controls it as the first mover from there for heaven even to be a part of the moved. The French alchemist Jean d'Espagnet rejected the idea of hyperuranion in his work \"Enchiridion\", where he maintained that nature is not divided into conceptual categories but exists in unity.\n\n"}
{"id": "43385814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43385814", "title": "International Spiritist Council", "text": "International Spiritist Council\n\nThe International Spiritist Council (ISC) is an organization founded on November 28, 1992, by national associations of the Spiritist movement in various countries. It is the international body for the followers of the movement started by Allan Kardec in the 1800s, promoting the spread and study of its scientific, philosophical, and religious aspects. The council's headquarters are in Brasília.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37007329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37007329", "title": "Johann Georg Schwarz", "text": "Johann Georg Schwarz\n\nJohann Georg Schwarz (Иван Григорьевич Шварц; 1751–1784) was a philosophy professor at Moscow University who headed the Russian branch of the Rosicrucian Society.\n\nA Transylvanian Saxon, Schwarz settled in Moscow in 1776. He has been described as \"the main carrier of esoterica into Russia\" and an \"emissary of Boehmist theosophy\". He joined forces with Nikolay Novikov in founding the Society of Friendship, a bulwark of Russian Freemasonry that held secret meetings at the Menshikov Tower. Schwarz and Novikov moved the Masonic centre of Russia from St. Petersburg to Moscow, helping emancipate their compatriots from the Swedish Rite and Yelagin's antics.\n\nSchwarz travelled in Europe to catch up with recent developments in the Rosicrucian doctrine. In 1782, he was present at the Wilhelmsbad masonic congress where Russia was recognized as the 8th autonomous province of the Rite of Strict Observance. Paul of Russia also went to Europe at this time, raising Catherine II's suspicions about Paul's conversion to Freemasonry. Schwarz died soon after returning to Moscow at the age of 33.\n"}
{"id": "32059633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32059633", "title": "Kelbata", "text": "Kelbata\n\nKelbata is a Maronite and Sunni Muslim village in Koura District of Lebanon.\n"}
{"id": "3125480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3125480", "title": "Kimberly Hahn", "text": "Kimberly Hahn\n\nKimberly Hahn (née Kirk; born 1957) is a Catholic apologist and author. She is the eldest child of Jerry and Patricia Kirk, and is married to apologist and author Scott Hahn.\n\nHahn was born into a Presbyterian family and her father was a minister. She studied Communication Arts at Grove City College in Pennsylvania, graduating in 1979. She married fellow student Scott Hahn on 18 August that year. She then worked as a secretary for a year while her husband began studies for a Master of Divinity degree at Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary. She enrolled the following year and earned a Master of Arts in Theology in 1982.\n\nWhile studying for her M.A., Hahn carried out research into the history of Christian attitudes towards contraception. She discovered that every Christian Church without exception had condemned the practice until 1930, and that some of the most famous Protestant reformers — Luther, Calvin, Zwingli, and Knox — had condemned it strongly. She also read Catholic author John Kippley, who likened contraception to the practice of feasting and deliberately vomiting. At that stage, Scott and Kimberly both had strong objections to many Catholic teachings, but, after prayer, Bible study, and reflection, they both became convinced that on \"that\" issue, at least, the Catholic position was biblical. They changed to Natural Family Planning for a while, then decided to leave the timing of pregnancies entirely to God. Their first son was born on December 4, 1982.\n\nScott Hahn was received into the Catholic Church at Easter 1986. His reception caused a great deal of distress to Hahn, as described in their book, \"Rome Sweet Home\". However, after struggling for a few more years with issues such as transubstantiation and, in particular, the veneration of Mary, she was herself received into the Catholic Church at Easter 1990. She is now a well-known Catholic apologist, a homeschooling mother of six children, and author of three books. She gives talks about Catholicism, feminism, and contraception, both nationally and internationally.\n\nOn November 3, 2015, Kimberly was elected by the people of the City of Steubenville to be Councilwoman-at-Large. She sits on the Service, Planning, Transportation and Economic Development Committees of Council.\n\nBooks:\n\nAudio cassettes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44790378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44790378", "title": "Krampus in popular culture", "text": "Krampus in popular culture\n\nKrampus, the \"Christmas Devil\" of Austrian and Bavarian folklore, has entered the popular culture of North America; Christian Jacobs notes that \"thanks to the Internet and YouTube [Krampus] is now very much on America's Christmas radar\". Tanya Basu interprets this as part of a \"growing movement of anti-Christmas celebrations\": a \"bah, humbug\" rejection of – or novel alternative to – mainstream festivities. Brian Joines of Image Comics suspects that the reason Krampus (specifically, as well as dark aspects of Christmas in general) has not been historically popularized in America is a social artifact resulting from \"the nature of how we view Christmas in this country, both as a big day for kids and as the birth of a big religious figurehead\". In some North American depictions, Krampus is an antihero who seeks to prevent children from becoming spoiled by rampant consumerism flowing from the economics of Christmas.\n\nKrampus is often mentioned in media related to Christmas, but the following lists instances where the character is featured significantly.\n\n Krampus-related events are held in cities across north America. Each may have a theme or cause, be it a simple bar crawl, toy drive, or a charity fundraiser. Below are a few:\n\n\nCostumed characters are a central part of all Krampus celebrations. These characters include: Krampus, Saint Nikolaus, the woodsman, angels, and the old woman. As Krampus is half-goat and half-demon, the costume normally shares certain primary elements such as: a fur suit, horns, demon mask, and hooves. Props commonly used are; bells, a birch switch, basket worn on the back, chains, walking staff, and a horse hair or hemp flogger. The most traditional Krampus costumes are made from goat/sheep skins, animal horns, and hand carved masks. More often they are made with modern and less costly materials, such as: fake fur and latex masks. Several Krampus costume instructional YouTube videos are available.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nApart from evil versions of normally good Christmas characters (i.e. Santa, Frosty, etc.), or Jack Frost who is usually depicted as just mischievous, malevolent monsters associated with Christmas in North American popular culture other than Krampus include, in chronological order:\n"}
{"id": "52797730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52797730", "title": "Kyabje Rinpoche", "text": "Kyabje Rinpoche\n\nKyabje Khensur Kangurwa Lobsang Thubten Rinpoche (25 December 1925 – 22 January 2014), was a Buddhist monk, Abbot of Sera Jey Monastery, and the founder of Tibetan Buddhist Institute (Adelaide). Khensur means \"former abbot\" and Rinpoche means \"precious teacher\".\n\nFormer Abbot of Sera Je monastery, Holder of the transmission lineage of the Kangyur, considered widely as the greatest scholar of Abhidharma of his age and, perhaps, the foremost Vajrayogini practitioner, Kyabje Khensur Kangyur Rinpoche was one of the very last great practitioners and scholars largely trained in Tibet. He was known at Sera Je as one of the \"Three Greats\".\n\nRinpoche taught all over the world including India, Australia, USA, New Zealand, Hong Kong and Singapore. Because of his extremely high qualifications, advanced knowledge and spiritual insights so rarely found in Lama's today, Rinpoche was often requested to teach at Sera monastery, where thousands of monks flocked to hear him speak.\n\nHis administrative achievements include his election first as the Sera Je disciplinarian and then, in 1982, his appointment as the monastery's abbot. His charitable achievements include the reestablishment of Sera Je School and founder of the Tibetan Sponsorship scheme.\n\nHe was born to a farming family in a mountainous valley of eastern Tibet (Kham) in what is now the Kartse (Ganzi) Prefecture of Western Sichuan. This area was the birthplace of many great lamas of contemporary times, including Khensur Rinpoche Urgyen Tseten, the late Geshe Ngawang Dhargye and the late Geshe Rabten, teacher of many leading western scholars of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nRinpoche was not a recognised reincarnation (tulku). However, at a very early age, he displayed signs that he very likely was the reincarnation of someone of great spiritual attainment. Among these were an affinity for religious ceremonies such as pujas.\n\nKyabje Rinpoche was born in a village called Rinda which had about 30 houses and some 300 people. Nearby was Dhargey Gompa, the local monastery. Rinpoche's family had ten members i.e. two elder sisters, himself and various other close relatives. His mother died when he was two or three years old from a disease which turned her hands black. His sister Dolma then took care of the family.\n\nHis home was confiscated by the Chinese when they invaded Tibet. Rinpoches's village celebrated the various festivals including Saka Dawa, Lama Tsongkhapa Day, Jan chub cho je (celebrating the founder of Sera Monastery), Monlam and Losar (Tibetan New Year). Rinpoche was a little boy of about three when his first spiritual teacher, Kushog Gyalden Rinpoche cut his hair and gave him the name in religion, Lobsang Thubten. This was done with the understanding that he would become a monk in the future.\n\nAt the age of seven he entered his first monastery Dhargey Gompa, two hours away by foot or 1/2 hour by horse, where his hair was shaved off. There were around 1900 monks from all three main Lhasa Monastic universities, including seven high Tulkus (reincarnations), and although the young monks (including Rinpoche) called themselves monks, they didn’t take the novice monk ordination (getshul) until they were older. He stayed there for 1 1/2 yrs until the Nationalist Chinese army invaded and completely destroyed the monastery. He then returned home to informal schooling. Some months later, he moved into a small school established by Gyalden Rinpoche with four other students from Dharye Gompa.\n\nRinpoche left Dhargey in 1944 to study at Sera Monastic University in Lhasa, remaining there for 18 years. In the meantime, Dhargey Gompa was rebuilt, only to be destroyed again around 1965 by the Chinese communists. There were about 300 elder monks and 100 younger ones, under Gyalden Tulku, the current incarnation of Rinpoche's first teacher, Gyalden Rinpoche. Rinpoche returned home in 1940, his father having died six months beforehand, spending some time at the rebuilt Dhargey Gompa. In 1965, he completed his Lharampa Geshe, the highest possible degree in Buddhist Philosophic Studies.\n\nIn February 1944, Rinpoche headed for Sera Monastery, one of three famous monasteries in Lhasa. Sera is dedicated to the Gelugpa or Yellow Hat Sect, a branch of Tibetan Buddhism and at the time Rinpoche entered, it had 5,500 monks. When he was 18 yrs old, Rinpoche took the first step to become a Novice Monk, by making three full length prostrations before the Abbot, and was asked many questions to see if he was a suitable candidate for becoming a monk. He was then given a yellow protection thread and told that he should remain humble and study well. Thus he became a full Sera Jey monk.\n\nIn 1948, Rinpoche became a Gelong, a fully ordained Buddhist Monk, which meant he took the 253 precepts (vows). Mostly monks from Kham only studied in Lhasa for 3 years, then they returned to their former monastery. However, after returning from a pilgrimage, taken immediately after his full Ordination, his teachers advised him to stay at Sera longer to continue his studies and not return to Kham. By about 1949, Rinpoche was in class 5 and had about 30 students. In 1949 Rinpoche received both Yamantaka and later, Vajrayogini Initiations from Ling Rinpoche (later to become the Dalai Lamas teacher).\n\nDuring the next 5 years (1949–53) Rinpoche had many problems because he didn’t have any money, and had to beg for food from his friends. There wasn’t much food but he studied well because of this ... \"they say that when you are hungry your mind is very alert\". .\n\nIn 1950 most of the monks at Sera became ill, and every day in Trehor Khamzen, 1 or 2 died, suffering from high fever. It spread through both colleges, and more than a hundred died. In 1958 the Chinese had invaded Tibet and the burning of monasteries and killing of monks had started. Cases of genocide was widespread, and the resistance movement had grown considerably.\n\nOn 17 March 1959 the 14th Dalai Lama escaped in disguise and started his journey to Sikkim, India and Nepal. The day before, the Chinese had fired 2 tank bombs into the Norbulinka, and on 18 March bombs had landed at Sera, the day after he had escaped to India.\n\nThe situation in Lhasa had become desperate, and Rinpoche and Geshe Ngawang Dhargey went into Lhasa to see for themselves. Because of this, they weren’t in Sera when the Chinese had come to the monastery and arrested monks coming back from the city. In Lhasa, there were bombs, tanks fire, machine guns and flame throwers, especially around the Norbulinka. A day later, Rinpoche made the decision to leave, although many others senior monks didn’t, and most perished in the ensuing onslaught. There were 35 in the group, and only 3 Senior Monks. It was an honour that Rinpoche was asked to throw the Mo to find the way to go to lead them all to safety. Chinese aircraft were patrolling to see if there were any monks escaping ... \"it was very frightening\". The group travelled day and night for about a month. \"Our feet hurt, our eyes were heavy and we had pains in our legs\" . We made it to Pempo and a Chinese plane appeared and started firing down on everyone around the village, many of whom were trying to escape.\n\nAlong the way, the group came across Rinpoche's teacher, Gyume Unyen Tsetan Rinpoche, and he then joined the party, making 4 Senior Monks in all. They reached Samye in the Lodkhar area, then ferried across a very large river in a yak hide boat. It was here that fortune smiled again. After taking a short detour to visit a Tara statue, they were given as much food as the donkeys could carry. It was extremely dangerous and now urgent that they leave Lodkhar. They eventually made the border into India, and arrived 24 days after the Dalai Lama's party. The locals were amazed to see that they had travelled across the mountains in winter which were covered in ice ... this was unheard of.\n\nBuxa, south of Darjeeling was the area especially provided by the Indian Government for the refugees. Buxa had been a British prison for important people like Mahatma Gandhi and Pandit Nehru. Many monks, including Rinpoche, developed sores, diarrhoea and tuberculosis. Many died, and the rest were emaciated. At first many different countries provided assistance but gradually the overseas countries ceased sending supplies and so it remained the Government of India's responsibility ... \"the rest of the world forgot us\".\n\nThey stayed 11 years at Buxa and over this period the supplies became worse and worse. They were given very old, bad rice and weevily lentils. The flour was full of dead insects and everybody soon began to get sick. There were no fields to cultivate and no money. It was in the extremely harsh conditions that Rinpoche sat for his Geshe degree in 1963-4. Rinpoche had a dilemma, he could go into the study of tantra, or could stay and teach. If he didn’t teach, the teaching would degenerate. So he chose to stay and teach.\n\nIn 1966, he stayed for six months in Mussoorie where he received teachings on grammar and poetry, which became useful later for writing homages to various teachers and composing texts. He wrote several Long Life Prayers, including one for the reincarnation of his first teacher in Kham. Rinpoche stayed in Buxa until 1970, studying, doing retreats and receiving initiations. Because of the deplorable conditions, and that over a hundred of the older monks had died, and many many more had tuberculosis and other diseases, he developed a plan whereby all of us were to move to the new southern settlements and re-establish Sera Jey Monastery. Divinations were performed to see where each monastery should be located, there were 2 areas; one near Mysore at Bylakuppe and the other at Mungot, both in Karnataka state. Monks from Kagur sect went to Bylakuppe.\n\nUpon arrival, the 300 monks discovered they were to live in a jungle, and stayed in army tents. The monks worked extremely hard for 2–3 years to clear it, prepare ground for planting crops and construct buildings and road. The Indian government gave them 50-60 rupees each a month for food and expenses, and also stones from a nearby quarry for building rooms (small, with just enough room for 4 beds and a fireplace for cooking). There were only two people who didn’t work; the Abbot and Rinpoche. They were designated to teach, meditate and study. The monks, out of respect, would not let Rinpoche work. A Health Care centre was established and a dispensary, and the water was much better, and Tuberculous became slightly less prevalent, however fever, malaria, tropical sores and other illnesses from the warm climate was still present.\n\nIn April 1972, Rinpoche was asked to give the Oral Transmission of the Complete Works of the Teachings of the Buddha, 108 volumes each 400 to 500 pages, which took about 8 months, and given in Dharmsala. This is an extremely rare teaching, and for this reason he now bears the title of Kangyurwa. After completing the Kangurwa, he returned to Sera in early 1973 and was appointed by the Dalai Lama to the position of Gigue, Disciplinarian of Sera Je. It is usual to be in this position for 6 months, however Rinpoche held the position for 2 years. It was at this time that Tenzin (Nawang Thubten), Rinpoche's attendant, became a monk. He was only 5 years old at the time.\n\nRinpoche was both Sera disciplinarian and teacher at Sera. As Gigue, Rinpoche was able to start up again the debating system used at Sera in Tibet. These debates provide an excellent means of exploring the teachings of the Buddha and expanding one's knowledge of them.\n\nIn December 1979, Rinpoche started a 3.3 year retreat on Vajrayogini. During this time, Rinpoche was visited by Ling Rinpoche and Trichang Dorje Chang, the Dalai Lama's tutors. He was very honoured by this visit and rare to have a visitor whilst on a retreat.\n\nIn 1982, after finishing the retreat, Rinpoche was asked to teach at Tushita Institute in New Delhi, which was for local Indians and Westerners. Rinpoche had first taught western monks Buddhist philosophy in Sera Je before going to Tushita Centre.\n\nThe current Abbot at Sera asked to be excused from his position, so they had to appoint a new one. The monks vote first, and Geshe Rabten received the most, then Rinpoche. The highest six names are then taken to Dharmsala and presented to the Dalai Lama. Through his divination, Rinpoche was chosen as Abbot of Sera from July 1983 until June 1987. The Abbot has to take care of everything, including the overseeing the building projects, the buying of supplies for the monastery, meeting with business people and many meetings of the various Abbots to decide the future of the study programs in India.\n\nIn 1984, during his time as abbot, Rinpoche restructured Sera Je School, which has resulted in an extremely high standard and diverse curriculum, achieving exemplary results in examinations. Because it was only for monks, many children from the nearby Tibetan settlements became monks in order to attend.\n\nIn 1986, when Jampa Gendun (Australian monk) arrived with a letter requesting Rinpoche to teach in the West ... \"I was asked to stay for 3 years, but I thought 1 year would be enough, however His Holiness advised that perhaps I should stay for 2 years\". He then spent 6 months teaching at Kopan Monastery, and from there travelled down to Delhi, then to Singapore and Adelaide arriving on 11 September 1988. Rinpoche eventually spent over 2 decades in Australia.\n\nRinpoche settled in Adelaide South Australia to teach at Buddha-house, an FPMT centre in Fullarton. Rinpoche was asked to teach at many other FPMT centres in Australasia and overseas. By doing this, Rinpoche was fulfilling the wish of the 14th Dalai Lama, to spread the Buddha Dharma to as many sentient beings as possible. Rinpoche taught twice a week on most of the Buddhist Canon, and gave many Initiations and retreats. Rinpoche initially only planned to teach at BuddhaHouse in Adelaide for a year, but stayed as the resident spiritual teacher for over a decade. Under Rinpoche's guidance, BuddhaHouse grew in stability, prosperity and educational strength.\n\nA highlight of Rinpoche's Australian stay was the visit in May 1992 of the Dalai Lama to Australia. As the senior resident monk it was Rinpoche's privilege to welcome him and accompany him around much of the country. \"To be here in a western city so far away from Tibet welcoming the Dalai Lama was very strange. In Tibet it was almost impossible to sit next to him as I did in the Adelaide cathedral, and making a speech of welcome would have been impossible\".\n\nThe Tibetan Buddhist Institute was established in April 2005 by Kyabje Rinpoche, in order to fulfil the wishes of the 14th Dalai Lama of Tibet. In March 2009, Tibetan Buddhist Institute found a home with the purchase of the Uniting Church building at Flinders Park South Australia.\n\nGeshe Jampa Gyaltsen is a student of Rinpoche and is now the resident teacher at Tibetan Buddhist Institute. Geshe Jampa Gyaltsen was born in 1966 and raised in the Tibetan village of \"Rumbatsa\", within the broader district of \"Trěhor Kham\", original site of the now legendary \"Dhargyay\" Monastery, and birthplace of founder Khensur Kangyurwa Rinpoche Lobsang Thubten, along with several other great Tibetan scholar-yogis of the 20th century.\n\nAt the request of Rinpoche, the Dalai Lama visited the Tibetan Buddhist Institute in Adelaide Australia on Thursday 20 June 2013.\n\nIn response the many requests from senior monks for assistance, Rinpoche established a monk sponsorship scheme. With over 950 monks, nuns, lay Tibetans in India and Gyalten Charity School in Tibet on the scheme (December 2005) and over 550 sponsors from 6 countries, the Khensur Kangyurwa Rinpoche Sponsorship Schemes is perhaps the largest and among the most successful Tibetan Sponsorship schemes in the world today. The Tibetan sponsorship scheme (previously Monk Sponsorship Scheme) was originally established to help support exiled monks at Sera Monastery escaping repression in Tibet, and also their relatives who live nearby in camps in India. Today the scheme sponsors exiled Monks, Nuns and lay Tibetans in India, Nuns, at two nunneries in Tibet, and students at Gyalten Charity School in Tibet.\n\nRinpoche has also successfully helped to raise funds to rebuild his first monastery in Kham, Dhargye Gompa, which was destroyed twice during the Chinese invasion and occupation. In addition, he has raised money to support the important philosophical debating program at Sera Je.\n\nGyalten Charity School in Tibet has approximately 280 children are enrolled in the school. Mostly monks are sponsored in Rinpoche's schemes, however there are also nuns in India as well as nuns at Nyagye Nunnery in Tibet and many Lay Tibetans in India. Khensur Rinpoche also set up the Emergency Medical Fund, which was established for any monk or lay Tibetan in India that is in urgent need of medical assistance.\n\nOn 31 December 2013, the Dalai Lama, personally visited the former abbot of Sera Je Monastery, Thubten Rinpoche just prior to his death (video) at his Labrang. After meeting with Kyabje Khensur Kangyur Rinpoche, before the beginning of the Lam Rim teachings, in front of approximately 10,000 monks and lay people the Dalai Lama detailed Khensur Rinpoche's realizations stating: \"His entire life was dedicated to Dharma from childhood. He has all the qualities of Scripture and Realization\" before mentioning his advanced realizations of the Completion Stage of Heruka.\n\nRinpoche died on 22 January 2014 in India. The cremation ceremony and offering of a fire puja to Kyabje Khensur Kangur Lobsang Thubten Rinpcohe's Holy Body, was held at Sera Monastery and attended by hundreds of monks and lay people.\n\nIn January 2016 one hundred Geshes in Rinpoche's Labrang at Sera Jey Monastic University dedicated a Heruka Guru Puja for his reincarnation. The 14th Dalai Lama informed that there weren’t any obstacles to the reincarnation, wherever that may be, of Lobsang Thubten. He advised that Rinpoche has appeared, but \"there is no rush to find him\".\n\nKyabje Rinpoche's death was reported in the tributes section of the Adelaide Advertiser in 2014 (citation required).\n\nThe Bodhicittavivarana by Nagarjuna with commentary of Khensur Kangyur Lobsang thubten in conjunction with a rare 14th century commentary, Ngawang dragpa's ‘Garland of Jewels’, as well as the oral commentary of the lineage holder of the Tripiûaka,\n\nIn 1994 teachings of Khensur Rinpoche were printed in the book Buddha House to Buddhahood: teachings during the wood-dog year at Buddha House Centre for Advanced Buddhist Studies / Kagyurwa Geshe Khenzur Lozang Thubten Rinpoche.\n\nJamgon Publications was established support the publication of bilingual Tibetan-English editions, of the works of Kyabje Rinpoche, lineage-holder of the Kangyur (the totality of the Buddhist corpus attributed to Buddha Shakyamuni).\n\nKyabje Rinpoche and Jen Gibson, 2000 ; Unpublished Work \"Fire and Stone; The Life of a Tibetan Abbot\"\n\n\nMandala Magazine: A DAY IN THE LIFE OF AN FPMT LAMA\n\nRinpoche as Sera Je Monastery 69th Abbot\n\nA Perfect Human Rebirth by Khensur Lobsang Thubten Rinpoche - the Ex-abbot of Sera Jhe Monastery (November & December 2001 Newsletter)\n\nRinpoche in history of De Tong Ling\n"}
{"id": "2362268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2362268", "title": "Lekhah Dodi", "text": "Lekhah Dodi\n\nLekha Dodi (; also transliterated as Lecha Dodi, L'chah Dodi, Lekah Dodi, Lechah Dodi; Ashkenazic pronunciation: Lecho Dodi) is a Hebrew-language Jewish liturgical song recited Friday at dusk, usually at sundown, in synagogue to welcome \"Shabbat\" prior to the evening services. It is part of the Kabbalat Shabbat (\"welcoming of Sabbath\").\n\n\"Lekhah Dodi\" means \"come my beloved,\" and is a request of a mysterious \"beloved\" that could mean either God or one's friend(s) to join together in welcoming \"Shabbat\" that is referred to as the \"bride\": \"likrat kallah\" (\"to greet the [\"Shabbat\"] bride\"). During the singing of the last verse, the entire congregation rises and turns to the west towards the setting sun (or toward the entrance to the synagogue), to greet \"Queen \"Shabbat\"\" as she arrives.\n\nIt was composed in the 16th century by Shlomo Halevi Alkabetz, who was born in Thessaloniki and later became a Safed Kabbalist. As was common at the time, the song is also an acrostic, with the first letter of the first eight stanzas spelling the author's name. The author draws from the rabbinic interpretation of Song of Songs in which the maiden is seen as a metaphor for the Jews and the lover (\"dod\") is a metaphor for God, and from \"Nevi'im\", which uses the same metaphor. The poem shows Israel asking God to bring upon that great \"Shabbat\" of Messianic deliverance. It is one of the latest of the Hebrew poems regularly accepted into the liturgy, both in the southern use, which the author followed, and in the more distant northern rite.\n\nIts importance in the esteem of Jewish worshipers has led every hazzan and choir-director to seek to devote his sweetest strains to the Shabbat welcome song. Settings of \"Lekhah Dodi\", usually of great expressiveness and not infrequently of much tenderness and beauty, are accordingly to be found in every published compilation of synagogal melodies.\n\nAmong the Sephardic congregations, the hymn is sometimes chanted to an ancient Moorish melody, which is known to be much older than the text of \"Lekhah Dodi\". This is clear not only from internal evidence, but also from the rubric in old siddurim directing the hymn \"to be sung to the melody of \"Shuvi Nafshi li-Menukhayekhi\", a composition of Judah Halevi, who died nearly five centuries before Alkabetz. In this rendering, carried to Israel by Spanish refugees before the days of Alkabetz, the hymn is chanted congregationally, the refrain being employed as an introduction only.\n\nIn some very old-style Ashkenazic synagogues the verses are ordinarily chanted at elaborate length by the hazzan, and the refrain is used as a congregational response, but in most Asheknazic Orthodox synagogues it is sung by everyone together to any one of a large number of tunes. This includes the Orthodox Synagouges who employ this element and Synagouges under the Modern-Orthodox umbrella.\n\nThis beloved piyyut is sung to many different melodies throughout the world, including melodies from India, Central Asia (Bukhara), Yemen, Kurdistan, Italy, Bulgaria, Germany, and the Mountain Jews of the Caucasus. Wherever Jews gather for prayer on a Friday night, there one can find Lecha Dodi being sung.\n\nAt certain periods of the year many northern congregations discard later compositions in favor of two simple older melodies singularly reminiscent of the folk-song of northern Europe in the century succeeding that in which the verses were written. The better known of these is an air, reserved for the Omer weeks between Passover and Shavuot, which has been variously described, because of certain of its phrases, as an adaptation of the famous political song \"Lillibullero\" and of the cavatina in the beginning of Mozart's \"Nozze di Figaro.\" But resemblances to German folk-song of the end of the seventeenth century may be found generally throughout the melody.\n\nLess widely utilized in the present day is the special air traditional for the \"Three Weeks\" preceding Tisha b'Av, although this is characterized by much tender charm absent from the melody of Eli Tziyyon, which more often takes its place. But it was once very generally sung in the northern congregations of Europe; and a variant was chosen by Benedetto Marcello for his rendition of Psalm xix. in his \"Estro Poetico-Armonico\" or \"Parafrasi Sopra li Salmi\" (Venice, 1724), where it is quoted as an air of the German Jews. Cantor Eduard Birnbaum (\"\"Der Jüdische Kantor\", 1883, p. 349) has discovered the source of this melody in a Polish folk-song, \"Wezm ja Kontusz, Wezm\", given in Oskar Kolberg's \"Piesni Ludu Polskiego\" (Warsaw, 1857). An old melody, of similarly obvious folk-song origin, was favored in the London Jewry a century ago, and was sung in two slightly divergent forms in the old city synagogues. Both of these forms are given by Isaac Nathan in his setting of Byron's \"Hebrew Melodies\" (London, 1815), where they constitute the air selected for \"She Walks in Beauty\"\", the first verses in the series. The melody has since fallen out of use in English congregations and elsewhere.\n\nThe full version of the song (note that many Reform congregations omit verses 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8 which make reference to messianic redemption), while Sephardic congregations based in the Jerusalem and Aleppo rites omit verses 4 through 7, as they make reference to agony:\n\nIn the Sephardic rite and Chasidic tradition the last section is recited as such:\n\nVerse 1, line 3: \" 'Safeguard' and 'Remember' in one utterance\": The Ten Commandments appears twice in the Torah, in Exodus 20:8 it reads \"Remember (\"zakhor\") the Sabbath Day\" and in Deuteronomy 5:12 it reads \"Safeguard (\"shamor\") the Sabbath Day\"; the folkloric explanation for the difference is that, supernaturally, both words were spoken by God simultaneously. Here the second expression is used first in the verse to accommodate the acrostic of the composer's name.\n\nVerse 2, line 10: \"Last made, but first planned\": The Sabbath Day, the seventh and last day of Creation, was, essentially, the last thing created in that week and yet it is believed that a day of cessation, reflection, and worship was part of God's plan from the very first.\n\nVerse 8, line 33: \"By the hand of a child of Peretz\": Meaning a descendant of Peretz, a son of Judah, an ancestor of King David; a poetical description of the Messiah.\n\n\nHebrew book with English introduction: Reuven Kimelman, The Mystical Meaning of ‘Lekhah Dodi’ and ‘Kabbalat Shabbat’, The Hebrew University Magnes Press, and Cherub Press, 2003\n\n"}
{"id": "1902811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902811", "title": "List of Islamic texts", "text": "List of Islamic texts\n\nThe Qur'an is the central religious text of Islam, which Muslims consider the verbatim word of God and the final divine revelation. It is regarded widely as the finest piece of literature in the Arabic language. Muslims believe that the Qur'an was verbally revealed through the angel Jibrīl (Gabriel) from God to Muhammad over a period of approximately twenty-three years beginning in 610 AD. Furthermore, Muslims believe that the Quran was precisely memorized, recited and exactly written down by Muhammad's companions, the Sahaba.\n\n\nThe text of the Qur'an consists of 114 chapters of varying lengths, each known as a sura. Each sura is formed from several verses, called ayats.\n\n\nA body of commentary and explication (tafsīr), aimed at explaining the meanings of the Quranic verses.\n\n\nAsbāb al-nuzūl is a secondary genre of Qur'anic exegesis (tafsir) directed at establishing the context in which specific verses of the Qur'an were revealed.\n\nSunna denotes the practice of Islamic prophet Muhammad that he taught and practically instituted as a teacher of the sharī‘ah and the best exemplar. The sources of sunna are usually oral traditions found in collections of Hadith and Sīra (prophetic biography). Unlike the Qur'an, Muslims do not agree on the same set of texts or sources of Sunnah, and they emphasize different collections of hadith based on to which Islamic school or branch they belong.\n\nHadīth are sayings, act or tacit approval, validly or invalidly, ascribed to the Islamic prophet Muhammad.\n\n"}
{"id": "11045054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11045054", "title": "List of Unitarian martyrs", "text": "List of Unitarian martyrs\n\nUnitarian martyrs are individuals who died for their adherence to Unitarianism, a theological position which claims to derive from the Christian Bible and denies the Trinity, instead maintaining that there is one God in one person (the Father). And in modern times as the Unitarian moment broadened to embrace more than simply Christianity, Unitarian martyrs may rightly now also included, individuals who died for their adherence to Liberal religion. Following is a partial list ordered by date of some of these martyrs.\n\n260 AD: Dionysius of Alexandria - was denounced at Rome for calling Jesus a \"creature of God.\" Later (likely due to pressure), he recanted.\n\n336 AD: Arius - claimed to have been murdered by a mob in the streets of Constantinople shortly after Constantine I's death. However other accounts suggest that he was poisoned or that he was not murdered at all (see the article on Arius).\n\n339 AD: Eusebius of Caesarea - is suspected to have been murdered; his \"Ecclesiastical History\" ends abruptly with the death of Constantine I. In any case he was definitely excommunicated\n\n476 - 1000 AD. - Dark Ages. Little history recorded.\n\nThere is a lot of recorded history for this period, some relates to the Unitarian belief, or questions regarding the Trinity.\n\n1529: Ludwig Haetzer - beheaded in Konstanz, Germany; believed Jesus was a leader and teacher, not a God due worship\n\n1539: Katarzyna Weiglowa - burned at the stake at age 80 for \"apostasy to Judaism\", though her stance was anti-trinitarian, not specifically Jewish.\n\n1553: Michael Servetus - burned at the stake after a prison term because of writing a book criticizing biblical evidence for a Trinity.\n\n1579: Francis David - Lutheran pastor in Transylvania; after Unitarian King John Sigismund died, orthodox views regained power. Francis David was placed in prison, where he ultimately died.\n\n1611: Iwan Tyszkiewicz - Polish member of the Socinian church (also see: Polish Brethren) who was beheaded for the blasphemy of Unitarianism.\n\n1697: Thomas Aikenhead - a medical student, executed for dening the Holy Trinity, an offence under England's Blasphemy Act 1697. On the morning of January 8, 1697, Thomas wrote to his 'friends' that \"it is a principle innate and co-natural to every man to have an insatiable inclination to the truth, and to seek for it as for hid treasure. . . So I proceeded until the more I thought thereon, the further I was from finding the verity I desired. . .\" Aikenhead may have read this letter outside the Tolbooth, before making the long walk, under guard, to the gallows. He was said to have died Bible in hand, \"with all the Marks of a true Penitent\".\n\n1942: Norbert Capek – preached religious freedom (including Unitarianism). Was sent to the Dachau concentration camp, and later gassed to death at Hartheim Castle. Founder of the Czech Unitarian Church, and author of many hymns in Czech. \"Mother Spirit, Father Spirit\" and \"View the Starry Realm\" are both in \"Singing the Living Tradition\", published by the Unitarian Universalist Association.\n\n1965: James Reeb clubbed in Selma, Alabama, after responding to a call by the Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. for a second Selma–to–Montgomery–march. Selma's public hospital refused to treat the Rev. Reeb, who was taken to University Hospital in Birmingham, two hours away. Reeb died on Thursday, March 11, with his wife by his side. His death inspired thousands to join King and other activists in the successful third march to Montgomery.\n\n1965: Viola Liuzzo was a 39-year-old white mother and a civil rights worker from Detroit who came to Alabama to join in the Selma to Montgomery marches and help with voter registration. She was murdered March 25, 1965 while driving a fellow activist back from the Alabama Capitol Building, the site of the large rally at the culmination of the third march.\n\n1988: Toribio Quimada, founder of the UU Church of the Philippines, shot on Negros Island by unknown assailants believed to have been responding to his social justice ministry.\nWhile Rev. Quimada is listed as a Unitarian martyr, his theology was clearly Universalist, rather than Unitarian. His church was founded with Universalist beliefs, but became Unitarian Universalist about the same time (1961) that the Unitarian and Universalist denominations in the United States merged. The church remains affiliated with the denomination in the United States.\n\n2008: Greg McKendry and Linda Kreager, killed as a result of the politically motivated Knoxville Unitarian Universalist church shooting.\n\n"}
{"id": "58234450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58234450", "title": "List of ancient Jains", "text": "List of ancient Jains\n\nList of Ancient Jains\n"}
{"id": "17316957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17316957", "title": "List of awards and nominations received by Kirk Franklin", "text": "List of awards and nominations received by Kirk Franklin\n\nKirk Franklin is a contemporary gospel singer, author, and leader of urban contemporary choirs such as The Family, Nu Nation, God's Property, and 1NC (One Nation Crew). He has been honored with numerous awards and nominations for his work in music.\n\nThe Dove Awards are awarded annually by the Gospel Music Association.\nThe Grammy Awards are awarded annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences (NARAS).\n!\n"}
{"id": "9531810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9531810", "title": "Maple Mountain (Ontario)", "text": "Maple Mountain (Ontario)\n\nMaple Mountain is a mountain, located within Lady Evelyn-Smoothwater Provincial Park, Northeastern Ontario, Canada, estimated above mean sea level. It has a higher vertical rise over the surrounding landscape, higher than the Ishpatina Ridge, which is the highest point of land in Ontario rising over Scarecrow Lake. Maple Mountain rises over Tupper Lake and is considerably better known than Ishpatina Ridge. It ranks thirteenth, but when ranked by vertical rise it is the highest of the top 25 peaks in Ontario. The 100-ft fire tower is also still intact and attracts many hikers. A 3.2 kilometre long hiking trail leads to the abandoned fire tower.\n\nLocated in Timiskaming District of Northeastern Ontario, the mountain is not very accessible; roads and trails in the remote area are difficult to travel in poor weather. The most popular approach routes to Maple Mountain are by canoe and/or float plane.\n\nThe indigenous Temagami First Nation call the mountain \"Chee-bay-jing\", meaning \"the place where the spirits go\" and consider it a sacred site. The English name of the mountain was given by Dr. Robert Bell of the Geological Survey of Canada in 1888. Bell was the first known non-aboriginal to scale the mountain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58130497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58130497", "title": "Nasik inscription of Ushavadata", "text": "Nasik inscription of Ushavadata\n\nThe Nasik inscription of Ushavadata is an inscription made in the Nasik Caves by Ushavadata, a viceroy of the Western Satraps ruler Nahapana, in the years circa 120 CE. It is the earliest known instance of the usage of Sanskrit, although a rather hybrid form, in western India. \n\nThe inscription is classified as \"Inscription No.10\" of the Nasik Caves. It is located on the front porch of Cave No.10, also called the \"Nahapana Vihara\". It is several meters in length.\n\nAltogether, the caves contains six inscriptions of the family of Nahapana, but the Ushavadata inscription is particularly important in that it is the earliest known instance of the usage of Sanskrit, although a rather hybrid form, in western India. Most of the other inscriptions made by the Western Satraps were in Prakrit, using the Brahmi script.\n\nIn what has been described as \"the great linguistical paradox of India\", Sanskrit inscriptions first appeared much later than Prakrit inscriptions, although Prakrit is considered as a descendant of the Sanskrit language. This is because Prakrit, in its multiple variants, had been favoured since the time of the influential Edicts of Ashoka (circa 250 BCE). Besides a few examples from the 1st century BCE, most of the early Sanskrit inscriptions date to the time of the Indo-Scythian rulers, either the Northern Satraps around Mathura for the earliest ones, or, slightly later, the closely related Western Satraps in western and central India. It is thought that these Indo-Scythian rulers became promoters of Sanskrit as a way to show their attachment to Indian culture: according to Salomon \"their motivation in promoting Sanskrit was presumably a desire to establish themselves as legitimate Indian or at least Indianized rulers and to curry the favor of the educated Brahmanical elite\".\n\nIn western India, the first known inscription in Sanskrit appears to have been made by Ushavadata, son-in-law of the Western Satrap ruler Nahapana, at the front of Cave n°10 in the Nasik Caves. The inscription dates to the early 2nd century CE, and has hybrid features. It was followed by the Junagadh rock inscription, inscribed by Rudradaman I circa 150 CE, is \"the first long inscription recorded entirely in more or less standard Sanskrit\". Sanskrit inscriptions by the Western Satraps are not found for about two hundred years after the Rudradaman reign, but it is important because its style is the prototype of the eulogy-style Sanskrit inscriptions found in the Gupta Empire era. These inscriptions are all in the Brahmi script.\n\nThe inscription reveals that Kshatrapa Nahapana’s son-in-law and Dinika’s son- Ushavadata built cave No.10 for Buddhist monks and donated 3000 gold coins for this cave as well as for the food and clothing of the monks. \n\nThe dedication of the cave to the Buddhist Samgha is mentioned in another inscription in the same cave, inscription No.12:\n\nThe first three lines of the inscription consist in an eulogy of Ushavadata, and are written in fairly standard Sanskrit, except for a few hybrid features, including several sandhi hiatuses and hybrid morphology (e.g. \"bhojāpayitrā\"). The rest of the inscription records the actual donations, and is more hybrid. Ushavadatta is otherwise known for making inscriptions in Prakrit in the Karla Caves, which, especially for the eulogy portion, are largely similar in content.\n\nAccording to Richard Salomon, Ushavadatta may have followed the example set by the Northern Satraps of Mathura, in using Sanskrit in some of his inscriptions. It would seem the usage of literary Sanskrit may have been a fashionable way of adding some formality to inscriptions which had traditionally been made in Prakrit. \n"}
{"id": "1805371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1805371", "title": "National Day of Prayer", "text": "National Day of Prayer\n\nThe National Day of Prayer () is an annual day of observance held on the first Thursday of May, designated by the United States Congress, when people are asked \"to turn to God in prayer and meditation\". Each year since its inception, the president has signed a proclamation, encouraging all Americans to pray on this day.\n\nThe modern law formalizing its annual observance was enacted in 1952, although earlier days of fasting and prayer had been established by the Second Continental Congress from 1775 until 1783, and by President John Adams in 1798 and 1799. Thomas Jefferson established a day of prayer and thanksgiving, but this occurred while he served as governor of Virginia.\n\nThe constitutionality of the National Day of Prayer was unsuccessfully challenged in court by the Freedom From Religion Foundation after their first attempt was unanimously dismissed by a federal appellate court in April 2011.\n\nThe National Day of Prayer shares common roots with the celebration of Thanksgiving; both were national proclamations establishing a day of prayer, but in the New England Colonies under British rule, traditional observances in late fall called for prayer and thanksgiving, while observances in the spring or summer called for prayer and fasting. The fall observance was established by President Abraham Lincoln as the official Thanksgiving holiday in 1863. The spring observance was established by President Harry S. Truman in 1952 as the National Day of Prayer.\n\nFriction in 1768–1776 between the American colonists and England spurred some American cities and colonies to proclaim days of prayer. For instance, Boston declared a day of fasting and prayer in September 1768, as a protest against a British plan to station troops in the city. The Colony of Virginia's House of Burgesses established a day of fasting and prayer to take place on Wednesday, June 1, 1774, to protest the Boston Port Act, such that the people of Virginia would assemble for prayer led by clergymen. Thomas Jefferson wrote that \"the effect of the day through the whole colony was like a shock of electricity,\" moving the Virginians to choose delegates to establish self-rule. The Provinces of South Carolina, Maryland and Georgia all observed official days of fasting and prayer during 1774–1775.\n\nThe observance of a day of fasting and prayer was brought to all of the colonists by the Continental Congress in 1775. Congress issued a proclamation recommending \"a day of publick humiliation, fasting, and prayer\" be observed by the \"English Colonies\" on Thursday, July 20, 1775, \"and to bless our rightful sovereign, King George the Third...\" The text, written by John Witherspoon and John Hancock, instructed the colonists to pray for a resumption of \"the just rights and privileges of the Colonies\" in \"civil and religious\" matters. A proclamation to this end was sent to every town in the colonies. John Adams wrote that the popular response was gratifying, that the special day was more widely observed than the practice of going to church on Sunday. After this success, Congress determined to call for a day of fasting and prayer each spring, and a day of thanksgiving and praise each fall.\n\nIn his role as Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Army, General George Washington acknowledged a day of \"fasting, humiliation and prayer\" proclaimed by the Continental Congress to be held on Thursday, May 6, 1779. To enable his soldiers to observe the day, Washington ordered a one-day cessation of recreation and \"unnecessary labor\". In March 1780, Congress announced a day of \"fasting, humiliation and prayer\" to be held on Wednesday, April 26, 1780.\n\nThe practice of calling for national days of fasting and prayer was abandoned from 1784 until 1789, even though thanksgiving days were observed each fall. On October 3, 1789, President Washington called for a national day of prayer and thanksgiving to be observed on Thursday, November 26, 1789; this was an extension of the tradition of thanksgiving which was already customary in New England. President Adams continued the practice of proclaiming national days of prayer in the spring and fall, but President Jefferson did not, as he considered prayer to be a matter for personal rather than state involvement. \n\nAfter James Madison, none of the next eleven presidents issued prayer proclamations. Thus, there was a period of 47 years, from 1815 to 1862, with no presidential prayer proclamations. \n\nIn January–February 1952 during the Korean War, the desirability of a united national prayer was stated by Reverend Billy Graham, who said, \"What a thrilling, glorious thing it would be to see the leaders of our country today kneeling before Almighty God in prayer. What a thrill would sweep this country. What renewed hope and courage would grip the Americans at this hour of peril.\" Representative Percy Priest from Tennessee observed that Graham had issued a challenge for a national day of prayer. Members of the House and Senate introduced a joint resolution for an annual National Day of Prayer, \"on which the people of the United States may turn to God in prayer and meditation at churches, in groups, and as individuals.\" On April 17, 1952, President Harry S. Truman signed a bill proclaiming a National Day of Prayer must be declared by each subsequent president at an appropriate date of his choice.\n\nIn 1982 a conservative evangelical Christian organization called the \"National Prayer Committee\" was formed to coordinate and implement a fixed annual day of prayer for the purpose of organizing evangelical Christian prayer events with local, state, and federal government entities. The Thanks-Giving Foundation also collaborated in this effort. In his 1983 declaration, Ronald Reagan said, \"From General Washington's struggle at Valley Forge to the present, this Nation has fervently sought and received divine guidance as it pursued the course of history. This occasion provides our Nation with an opportunity to further recognize the source of our blessings, and to seek His help for the challenges we face today and in the future.\"\nIn 1988, the law was amended so that the National Day of Prayer would be held on the first Thursday of May. Two stated intentions of the National Day of Prayer were that it would be a day when adherents of all great religions could unite in prayer and that it may one day bring renewed respect for God to all the peoples of the world.\n\nRepublican Ronald Reagan administration and George H. W. Bush administration (1981–1993) each hosted special National Day of Prayer events held at the White House only once during their administrations. Democrat Bill Clinton administration (1993–2001) did not hold any such events during his time in office, though he issued proclamations annually. \n\nRepublican George W. Bush administration (2001–2009) made his first presidential act be the announcement of a National Day of Prayer, and he held events at the White House in each year of his presidency.\n\nDemocrat Barack Obama (2009–2017) did not hold any public events at the White House, though he issued presidential proclamations regularly each year. \n\nRepublican President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump attended church services in observation of a special National Day of Prayer, which Trump previously declared, in support of the victims of Hurricane Harvey dwelling in the state of Texas, to \"uplift one another and assist those suffering from the consequences of this terrible storm.\"\n\nThe National Day of Prayer is celebrated by Americans of many religions, including Christians of many denominations, including Protestants and Catholics, as well as Sikhs, Muslims, Hindus, and Jews, reflecting the demographics of the United States. On the National Day of Prayer, many Americans assemble in prayer in front of courthouses, as well as in houses of worship, such as churches, mosques, synagogues, and temples. Luncheons, picnics, and music performances revolving around praying for the nation are also popular observances. Traditionally, the President of the United States issues an official National Day of Prayer proclamation each year as well.\n\nThe Freedom From Religion Foundation (FFRF) sued to challenge the designation of a National Day of Prayer. On October 3, 2008, the Wisconsin-based organization filed suit in the federal district court for western Wisconsin in Madison, naming as defendants President George W. Bush; White House press secretary Dana Perino; Wisconsin governor Jim Doyle; and evangelist James Dobson's wife, Shirley Dobson, in her capacity as chair of the National Day of Prayer Task Force. The Alliance Defense Fund (ADF) provided defense for Shirley Dobson while government lawyers asked U.S. District Judge Barbara Crabb to dismiss the case, arguing principally that the group has no legal standing to sue.\n\nOn March 1, 2010 U.S. District Judge Barbara Crabb stated that FFRF's lawsuit could proceed because the plaintiffs had shown that they suffered \"concrete injury\" that can potentially be remedied by judicial action. Judge Crabb stated about those supporting the federal law designating the National Day of Prayer, \"adopting [the] defendants' view of standing would allow the government to have unrestrained authority to demean members of any religious group without legal consequence. The federal government could declare the 'National Day of Anti-Semitism' or even declare Christianity the official religion of the United States, but no one would have standing to sue because no one would have to 'pass by' those declarations.\" On April 15, 2010, Judge Crabb ruled that the statute establishing the National Day of Prayer was unconstitutional as it is \"an inherently religious exercise that serves no secular function.\" However, Crabb stayed her ruling pending the completion of appeals.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Justice filed a notice to appeal the ruling on April 22, 2010, and on April 14, 2011 a three judge panel of the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals unanimously overturned Crabb's decision. The panel ruled that FFRF did not have standing to sue because the National Day of Prayer had not caused them harm and stated that \"a feeling of alienation cannot suffice as injury.\" The court further stated that \"the President is free to make appeals to the public based on many kinds of grounds, including political and religious, and that such requests do not obligate citizens to comply and do not encroach on citizens' rights.\" The federal appeals court also cited Abraham Lincoln's second inaugural address, which referenced God seven times and prayer three times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14087611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14087611", "title": "Our Lady of Graces", "text": "Our Lady of Graces\n\nOur Lady of Graces (Italian: \"Madonna delle Grazie\" or \"Nostra Signora delle Grazie\") or St Mary of Graces (Italian: \"Santa Maria delle Grazie\") is a devotion to the Virgin Mary in the Roman Catholic Church. Churches with this dedication often owe their foundation to thankfulness for graces received from the Virgin Mary, and are particularly numerous in Italy, India, Australia, United States, France and the Italian-speaking region of Switzerland.\n\nOur Lady of Graces is the patron saint of the diocese of Faenza. According to a legend, in 1412, Mary appeared to a local woman. Mary was holding broken arrows symbolizing protection against God's wrath and promised an end to the plagues. Faenza Cathedral has a chapel dedicated to Our Lady, while residents often place ceramic titles with the image on their homes.\n\nOther Italian towns that have Our Lady of Graces as their patron saint include:\n\n\n\nThe Our Lady of Grace Parish was once a small hut where religious services were held in the presence of few people. It commenced when the Archbishop of Manila, Most Rev. Michael J. O’ Doherty, granted the request of the OMI Superior in the Philippines, Rev. Fr. Gerard Mongeau, to establish a house in Grace Park. The Philippine Realty Corporation, administrators of the Grace Park Subdivision, donated the use of eight lots in Block 171 for the church. With the help of the U.S. Signal Corps, a temporary chapel was built.\n\nThe first Eucharistic Celebration was done on May 16, 1946, by Rev. Fr. Joseph F. Boyd, OMI, attended by thirty–five people. The small church was blessed on September 1946, with the Good Shepherd Convent taking care of the choir and the church decoration.\n\nBut as early as mid–1949, just three years after the inauguration of the church, the need for a bigger space was seen because the number of parishioners can no longer be accommodated. In response to this necessity, the people of Grace Park launched a fund–raising campaign. After two years, a new church was ready to be blessed by the Archbishop of Manila, Rev. Msgr. Gabriel Reyes.\n\nThe parish, a product of the Second Vatican Council (1963 – 1965), responded to the call of mounting the dignity of man, being the “People of God”, by renewing the way of Christian Life and Church Structure. Through the active leadership of the OMI Fathers and the Oblates of Notre Dame (OND) Sisters, Basic Ecclesial Communities were organized in eight specific areas of the parish, in order to aid the people regarding the political, environmental, and socio–economical issues. It is also in this period that, the Notre Dame of Greater Manila was established, a school governed by the Oblates of Mary Immaculate that aims to form people of aptitude and morals.\n\nToday, Our Lady of Grace Parish is a clear reflection of what people living in Kalookan are like; industrious, helpful, loving, and faithful. Time may move on, but the spirit of St. Eugene de Mazenod and of our Mother will continue to stir through the lives of his priests and her parishioners.\n\nThe church co-patron is St. Eugene de Mazenod and the feast of Our Lady of Grace is observed every first Sunday of May.\n\n\n\n\nThere are many thousands of paintings by this name throughout Italy. One may be seen at Grosseto Cathedral (by Matteo di Giovanni, 1470), in the church of San Lorenzo at Poggibonsi, and in the cathedral of Perugia. Unlike the Madonna del Soccorso or the Madonna della Misericordia, the Madonna delle Grazie has no particular iconography, although many of these paintings represent just the head or bust of the Virgin.\n\nA full-figure Madonna Lactans, with both of Santa Maria's breasts fully exposed and showering lactating grace down upon souls in purgatory, was painted in Ravello, Italy, by bequest of Don Pietro Marciano (1 October 1572), and placed in a chapel he had built to hold it on Punta Paradiso (1576), overlooking Minori. A gift to the Madonna for the miraculous deliverance at Lepanto, this village-style icon was restored \nin 2014. A renewal of its lost devotion and the restoration of the chapel are being contemplated.\n\nThere are statues of her by Antonello Gagini at Chiesa dell'Osservanza, Catanzaro and the church of Madrice Vecchia, Castelbuono, and by Vincenzo Gagini at the Church of San Martino, Randazzo. Another statue sculpted from wood by Mariano Gerada could be found in Żabbar a Maltese town dedicated to Our Lady of Graces, Il-Madonna tal-Grazzja, as known by the locals.\n\nFestivals to her are again celebrated in many places. In Italy one of the most famous is at Catenanuova. In Stamford, Connecticut she is celebrated by emigrants from Minturno. In the Maltese Islands at Żabbar and Victoria the feast is celebrated on the first Sunday after 8 September every year and is the last feast of the Summer season.\n"}
{"id": "166254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166254", "title": "Religion in Japan", "text": "Religion in Japan\n\nReligion in Japan is dominated by Shinto (the ethnic religion of the Japanese people) and by Buddhism. According to surveys carried out in 2006 and 2008, less than 40% of the population of Japan identifies with an organized religion: around 35% are Buddhists, 3% to 4% are members of Shinto sects and derived religions, and from fewer than 1% to 2.3% are Christians.\n\nMost of the Japanese (50% to 80% considering degrees of syncretism with Buddhism, \"shinbutsu-shūgō\") pray and worship ancestors and gods (神 \"kami\", \"shin\" or, archaically, \"jin\") at Shinto shrines or at private altars, while not identifying as \"Shinto\" or \"Shintoist\" in surveys. This is because these terms have little meaning for the majority of the Japanese, or because they define membership in Shinto organizations or sects. The term \"religion\" (宗教 \"shūkyō\") itself in Japanese culture defines only organized religions (that is, religions with specific doctrines and required membership). People who identify as \"non-religious\" (無宗教 \"mushūkyō\") in surveys actually mean that they do not belong to any religious organization, even though they may take part in Shinto rituals and worship.\n\nSome scholars, such as Jun'ichi Isomae and Jason Ānanda Josephson, have challenged the usefulness of the term \"religion\" in regard to Japanese \"traditions\", arguing that the Japanese term and concept of \"religion\" (\"shūkyō\") is an invention of the 19th century. However, other scholars, such as Hans Martin Kramer and Ian Reader, regard such claims as overstated and contend that the terms relate to terminology and categorizations that existed in Japan prior to the 19th century.\n\n, also \"kami-no-michi\", is the indigenous religion of Japan and most of the people of Japan. It is defined as an action-centered religion, focused on ritual practices to be carried out diligently, to establish a connection between present-day Japan and its ancient roots. Shinto practices were first recorded and codified in the written historical records of the \"Kojiki\" and \"Nihon Shoki\" in the 8th century. Still, these earliest Japanese writings do not refer to a unified \"Shinto religion\", but rather to a collection of native beliefs and mythology. Shinto today is the religion of public shrines devoted to the worship of a multitude of gods (\"kami\"), suited to various purposes such as war memorials and harvest festivals, and applies as well to various sectarian organizations. Practitioners express their diverse beliefs through a standard language and practice, adopting a similar style in dress and ritual, dating from around the time of the Nara and Heian periods.\n\nThe word \"Shinto\" (\"way of the gods\") was adopted, originally as \"Shindo\", from the written Chinese \"Shendao\" (神道, ), combining two \"kanji\": , meaning \"spirit\" or \"kami\"; and , meaning a philosophical path or study (from the Chinese word \"dào\"). The oldest recorded usage of the word \"Shindo\" is from the second half of the 6th century. \"Kami\" are defined in English as \"spirits\", \"essences\" or \"gods\", referring to the energy generating the phenomena. Since Japanese language does not distinguish between singular and plural, \"kami\" refers to the divinity, or sacred essence, that manifests in multiple forms: rocks, trees, rivers, animals, places, and even people can be said to possess the nature of \"kami\". Kami and people are not separate; they exist within the same world and share its interrelated complexity.\n\nShinto is the largest religion in Japan, practiced by nearly 80% of the population, yet only a small percentage of these identify themselves as \"Shintoists\" in surveys. This is due to the fact that \"Shinto\" has different meanings in Japan: most of the Japanese attend Shinto shrines and beseech kami without belonging to Shinto organisations, and since there are no formal rituals to become a member of folk \"Shinto\", \"Shinto membership\" is often estimated counting those who join organised Shinto sects. Shinto has 100,000 shrines and 78,890 priests in the country.\n\nWith the profound changes that the Japanese society has gone through in the 20th century, and especially after World War II, including rapid industrialisation and urbanisation, traditional religions were challenged by the transformation and underwent a reshaping themselves, and principles of religious freedom articulated by the constitution provided space for the proliferation of new religious movements.\n\nBoth new sects of Shinto and movements claiming a thoroughly independent status, as well as new forms of Buddhist lay societies, provided ways of aggregation for people uprooted from traditional families and village institutions. While traditional Shinto is residential and hereditary, and a person participates in the worship activities devoted to the local tutelary deity or ancestor, occasionally asking for specific healing or blessing services or participating in pilgrimages, in the new religions groups were formed by individuals without regard to kinship or territorial origins, and required a voluntary decision to join. These new religions also provided cohesion through a unified doctrine and practice shared by the nationwide community.\n\nThe officially recognized new religions number in the hundreds, and total membership is reportedly in the tens of millions. The largest new religion is Soka Gakkai, a Buddhist sect founded in 1930, which has about 10 million members in Japan. Scholars in Japan have estimated that between 10% and 20% of the population belongs to the new religions, although more realistic estimates put the number at well below the 10% mark. As of 2007, there are 223,831 priests and leaders of the new religions in Japan, three times the number of traditional Shinto priests.\n\nMany of these new religions are Shinto-derived and retain the fundamental characters of Shinto, often identifying themselves as forms of Shinto. These include Tenrikyo, Konkokyo, Omotokyo, Shinrikyo, Shinreikyo, Sekai Shindokyo, Zenrinkyo and others. Others are independent new religions, including Aum Shinrikyo, Mahikari movements, the Church of Perfect Liberty, Seicho-no-Ie, the Church of World Messianity, and others.\n\nBuddhism (仏教 \"Bukkyō\") first arrived in Japan in the 6th century, it was introduced in the year 538 or 552 from the kingdom of Baekje in Korea. The Baekje king sent the Japanese emperor a picture of the Buddha and some sutras. After overcoming brief yet violent oppositions by conservative forces, it was accepted by the Japanese court in 587. The Yamato state ruled over clans (\"uji\") centered around the worship of ancestral nature deities. It was also a period of intense immigration from Korea, horse riders from northeast Asia, as well as cultural influence from China, that had been unified under the Sui dynasty becoming the crucial power on the mainland. Buddhism was functional to affirm the state's power and mold its position in the broader culture of East Asia. Japanese aristocrats set about building Buddhist temples in the capital at Nara, and then in the later capital at Heian (now Kyoto).\n\nThe six Buddhist sects initially established in Nara are today together known as \"Nara Buddhism\" and are relatively small. When the capital moved to Heian, more forms of Buddhism arrived from China, including the still-popular Shingon Buddhism, an esoteric form of Buddhism similar to Tibet's Vajrayana Buddhism, and Tendai, a monastic conservative form known better by its Chinese name, Tiantai.\n\nWhen the shogunate took power in the 12th century and the administrative capital moved to Kamakura, more forms of Buddhism arrived. The most popular was Zen, which became the most popular type of Buddhism of that time. Two schools of Zen were established, Rinzai and Sōtō; a third, Ōbaku, formed in 1661.\n\nWith the Meiji Restoration in 1868, that involved the centralisation of imperial power and the modernisation of the state, Shinto was made the state religion and an order of elimination of mutual influence of Shinto and Buddhism was enacted, followed by a movement to thoroughly eradicate Buddhism.\n\nNowadays, the most popular branch is Pure Land Buddhism, arrived in the Kamakura period. It emphasizes the role of Amitabha Buddha and promises that reciting the phrase \"Namu Amida Butsu\" upon death will result in being removed by Amitabha to the \"Western Paradise\" or \"Pure Land\", and then to Nirvana. Pure Land attracted the merchant and farmer classes. After Honen, Pure Land's head missionary in Japan, died, the form split into two schools: \"Jōdo-shū\", which focuses on repeating the phrase many times, and the more liberal \"Jōdo Shinshū\", which claims that only saying the phrase once with a pure heart is necessary. Today, many Japanese adhere to \"Nishi Honganji-ha\", a conservative sect of Jodo Shinshu.\n\nAnother prevalent form of Buddhism is Nichiren Buddhism, which was established by the 13th century monk Nichiren who underlined the importance of the Lotus Sutra. Main representatives of Nichiren Buddhism are sects like \"Nichiren Shū\", \"Nichiren Shōshū\" and lay organisations like Risshō Kōsei Kai and \"Soka Gakkai\", a controversial denomination whose political wing forms the Komeito, Japan's third largest political party. Common to most lineages of Nichiren Buddhism is the chanting of Nam(u) Myōhō Renge Kyō (or Nam Myoho Renge Kyo) and the Gohonzon inscribed by Nichiren.\n\nAs of 2007, there were 315,000+ Buddhist monks, priests and leaders in Japan.\n\nAs of 2014, there were 377,000+ Buddhist monks, priests and leaders in Japan, an increase of over 60,000 compared to 2007.\n\nChristianity (キリスト教 \"Kirisutokyō\"), in the form of Catholicism (カトリック教 \"Katorikkukyō\"), was introduced into Japan by Jesuit missions starting in 1549. In that year, the three Jesuits Francis Xavier, Cosme de Torres and Juan Fernández, landed in Kagoshima, in Kyushu, on 15 August. Portuguese traders were active in Kagoshima since 1543, welcomed by local \"daimyōs\" because they imported gunpowder. Anjirō, a Japanese convert, helped the Jesuits understanding Japanese culture and translating the first Japanese catechism.\n\nThese missionaries were successful in converting large numbers of people in Kyushu, including peasants, former Buddhist monks, and members of the warrior class. In 1559, a mission to the capital, Kyoto, was started. By the following year there were nine churches, and the Christian community grew steadily in the 1560s. By 1569 there were 30,000 Christians and 40 churches. Following the conversion of some lords in Kyushu, mass baptisms of the local populations occurred, and in the 1570s the number of Christians rose rapidly to 100,000. In the domains of Christian local lords, non-Christians were forced to accept baptism and shrines; Buddhist temples were converted into churches or destroyed.\n\nNear the end of the 16th century, Franciscan missionaries arrived in Kyoto, despite a ban issued by Toyotomi Hideyoshi. In 1597, Hideyoshi proclaimed a more serious edict and executed 26 Franciscans in Nagasaki as a warning. Tokugawa Ieyasu and his successors enforced the prohibition of Christianity with several further edicts, especially after the Shimabara Rebellion in the 1630s. Many Christians continued to practice in secret.\n\nIn 1873, following the Meiji Restoration, the ban was rescinded, freedom of religion was promulgated, and Protestant missionaries (プロテスタント \"Purotesutanto\" or 新教 \"Shinkyō\", \"renewed teaching\") began to proselytise in Japan, intensifying their activities after World War II, yet they were never as successful as in Korea.\n\nToday, there are 1 to 3 million Christians in Japan, most of them living in the western part of the country, where the missionaries' activities were greatest during the 16th century. Nagasaki Prefecture has the highest percentage of Christians: about 5.1% in 1996. As of 2007 there are 32,036 Christian priests and pastors in Japan. Throughout the latest century, some Western customs originally related to Christianity (including Western style weddings, Valentine's Day and Christmas) have become popular among many of the Japanese. For example, 60-70% of weddings performed in Japan are Christian-style.\n\nIslam (イスラム教 \"Isuramukyō\") in Japan is mostly represented by small immigrant communities from other parts of Asia. In 2008, Keiko Sakurai estimated that 80–90% of the Muslims in Japan were foreign-born migrants primarily from Indonesia, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Iran. It has been estimated that the Muslim immigrant population amounts to 70,000–100,000 people, while the \"estimated number of Japanese Muslims ranges from thousands to tens of thousands\".\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith (バハーイー教 \"Bahāīkyō\") in Japan began after a few mentions of the country by `Abdu'l-Bahá first in 1875. The first Japanese convert was , who lived in Honolulu, and accepted the faith in 1902; the second convert was . The first Bahá'í convert on Japanese soil was in 1915. Almost a century later, the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 15,700 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\nJudaism (ユダヤ教 \"Yudayakyō\") in Japan is practiced by about 2,000 Jews living in the country. With the opening of Japan to the external world in 1853 and the end of Japan's \"sakoku\" foreign policy, some Jews immigrated to Japan from abroad, with the first recorded Jewish settlers arriving at Yokohama in 1861. The Jewish population continued to grow into the 1950s, fueled by immigration from Europe and the Middle East, with Tokyo and Kobe forming the largest communities.\n\nDuring World War II, some European Jews fleeing the Holocaust found refuge in Japan, with one Japanese diplomat, Chiune Sugihara, the Japanese consul to Lithuania, disregarding his orders and issuing more than 6,000 entry visas to Jews fleeing the Nazis. After World War II, a large portion of Japan's Jewish population emigrated, many going to what would become Israel. Some of those who remained married locals and were assimilated into Japanese society.\n\nThere are community centres serving Jews in Tokyo and Kobe. The Chabad-Lubavitch organization has two centres in Tokyo.\n\nIn September 2015, Japan nominated a Chief Rabbi for the first time, the head of Tokyo's Chabad House, Rabbi Binyamin Edre'i.\n\nHinduism (ヒンドゥー教 \"Hindūkyō\" or 印度教 \"Indokyō\") in Japan is practiced by a small number of people, mostly immigrants from India. Nevertheless, Hindu themes have had a significant but indirect role in Japanese culture, through the spread of Buddhism. Four of the Japanese \"Seven Gods of Fortune\" originated as Hindu deities, including Benzaiten (Sarasvati), Bishamon (Vaiśravaṇa or Kubera), Daikoku (Mahakala/Shiva), and Kisshoutennyo (Laxmi). Various Hindu deities, including the aforementioned, are worshipped in Shingon Buddhism. This denomination, and all other forms of Tantric Buddhism, borrow heavily from Tantric Hinduism.\n\nSikhism (シク教 \"Sikukyō\") is presently a minority religion in Japan mainly followed by families migrated from India.\n\nJainism (ジャイナ教 \"Jainakyō\") is a minority religion in Japan. , there were three Jain temples in the country.\n\nThe Ryukyuan religion is the indigenous belief system of the people of Okinawa and the other Ryukyu Islands. While specific legends and traditions may vary slightly from place to place and island to island, the Ryukyuan religion is generally characterized by ancestor worship (more accurately termed \"ancestor respect\") and the respecting of relationships between the living, the dead, and the gods and spirits of the natural world. Some of its beliefs, such as those concerning \"genius loci\" spirits and many other beings classified between gods and humans, are indicative of its ancient animistic roots, as is its concern with , or life essence.\n\nOne of its most ancient features is the belief , the spiritual superiority of women derived from the goddess Amamikyu, which allowed for the development of a class of \"noro\" (priestesses) cult and \"yuta\" (female media). This differs from Japanese Shinto, where men are seen as the embodiment of purity. Ryukyuan religion has been influenced by Japanese Shinto and Buddhism, and various Chinese religions. It includes sects and reformed movements such as Ijun or Ijunism (Ryukyuan: いじゅん \"Ijun\"; Japanese: 違順教 \"Ijunkyō\"), founded in the 1970s.\n\nThe Ainu religion is the indigenous belief system of the Ainu people of Hokkaido and parts of Far Eastern Russia. It is an animistic religion centered around the belief that \"Kamuy\" (spirits or gods) live in everything.\n\nMost Chinese people in Japan practice the Chinese folk religion (), also known as Shenism (), that is very similar to Japanese Shinto.\n\nThe Chinese folk religion consists in the worship of the ethnic Chinese gods and ancestors, \"shen\" (神 \"gods\", \"spirits\", \"awarenesses\", \"consciousnesses\", \"archetypes\"; literally \"expressions\", the energies that generate things and make them thrive), which can be nature deities, city deities or tutelary deities of other human agglomerations, national deities, cultural heroes and demigods, ancestors and progenitors of kinships. Holy narratives regarding some of these gods are codified into the body of Chinese mythology.\n\nTaoism (道教 \"Dōkyō\") was introduced from China between the 7th and 8th centuries, and influenced in varying degrees the Japanese indigenous spirituality. Taoist practices were absorbed into Shinto, and Taoism was the source of the esoteric and mystical religions of Onmyōdō, Shugendō and Kōshin.\n\nTaoism, being an indigenous religion in China, shares some roots with Shinto, although Taoism is more hermetic while Shinto is more shamanic. Taoism's influence in Japan has been less profound than that of Japanese Neo-Confucianism. Today, institutional Chinese Taoism is present in the country in the form of some temples; the \"Seitenkyū\" was founded in 1995.\n\nConfucianism (儒教 \"Jukyō\") was introduced from China during the Edo period, and developed into an elite religion, yet having a profound influence on the fabric of Japanese society overall. The Confucian philosophy can be characterized as humanistic and rationalistic, with the belief that the universe could be understood through human reason, corresponding to the universal reason (\"li\"), and thus it is up to man to create a harmonious relationship between the universe (天 \"Ten\") and the individual. The rationalism of Neo-Confucianism was in contrast to the mysticism of Zen Buddhism in Japan. Unlike the Buddhists, the Neo-Confucians believed that reality existed, and could be understood by mankind, even if the interpretations of reality were slightly different depending on the school of Neo-Confucianism.\n\nThe social aspects of the philosophy are hierarchical with a focus on filial piety. This created a Confucian social stratification in Edo society that previously had not existed, dividing Japanese society into four main classes: samurai, farmers, artisans and merchants. The samurai were especially avid readers and teachers of Confucian thought in Japan, establishing many Confucian academies.\n\nNeo-Confucianism also introduced elements of ethnocentrism into Japan. As the Chinese Neo-Confucians had regarded their own culture as the center of the world, the Japanese Neo-Confucians developed a similar national pride. This national pride would later evolve into the philosophical school of Kokugaku, which would later challenge Neo-Conufucianism, and its perceived foreign Chinese origins, as the dominant philosophy of Japan.\n\nMost Japanese participate in rituals and customs derived from several religious traditions. Life cycle events are often marked by visits to a Shinto shrine. The birth of a new baby is celebrated with a formal shrine visit at the age of about one month, as are the third, fifth, and seventh birthdays (\"Shichi-Go-San\") and the official beginning of adulthood at age twenty (\"Seijin shiki\"). Wedding ceremonies are often performed by Shinto priests, but Western-style secular wedding ceremonies, called \"howaito uedingu\" (\"white wedding\"), are also popular. These use Christian-like liturgy but are usually not presided over by an ordained priest.\n\nJapanese funerals are usually performed by Buddhist priests, and Buddhist rites are also common on death day anniversaries of deceased family members. 91% of Japanese funerals take place according to Buddhist traditions.\n\nThere are two categories of holidays in Japan: \"matsuri\" (temple fairs), which are largely of Shinto origin and relate to the cultivation of rice and the spiritual well-being of the local community; and \"nenjyū gyōji\" (annual feasts), which are largely of Chinese or Buddhist origin. During the Heian period, the \"matsuri\" were organized into a formal calendar, and other festivals were added. Very few \"matsuri\" or annual feasts are national holidays, but they are included in the national calendar of annual events. Most \"matsuri\" are local events and follow local traditions. They may be sponsored by schools, towns, or other groups but are most often associated with Shinto shrines.\n\nSome of the holidays are secular in nature, but the two most significant for the majority of Japanese—New Year's Day and \"Obon\"—involve visits to Shinto shrines or Buddhist temples, respectively. The New Year's holiday (January 1–3) is marked by the practice of numerous customs and the consumption of special foods. Visiting Shinto shrines or Buddhist temples to pray for family blessings in the coming year, dressing in a kimono, hanging special decorations, eating noodles on New Year's Eve, and playing a poetry card game are among these practices. During Obon, \"bon\" (spirit altars) are set up in front of Buddhist family altars, which, along with ancestral graves, are cleaned in anticipation of the return of the spirits. People living away from their family homes return for visits with relatives. Celebrations include folk dancing and prayers at Buddhist temples as well as family rituals in the home.\n\nIn early Japanese history, the ruling class was responsible for performing propitiatory rituals, which later came to be identified as Shinto, and for the introduction and support of Buddhism. Later, religious organization was used by regimes for political purposes; for instance, the Tokugawa government required each family to be registered as a member of a Buddhist temple. In the early 19th century, the government required that each family belong to a shrine instead, and in the early 20th century, this was supplemented with the concept of a divine right to rule bestowed on the emperor. The Meiji Constitution reads: \"Japanese subjects shall, within limits not prejudicial to peace and order, and not antagonistic to their duties as subjects, enjoy freedom of religious belief\".\n\nArticle 20 of the 1947 Constitution states: \"Freedom of religion is guaranteed to all. No religious organization shall receive any privileges from the State, nor exercise any political authority\". The United States privatized shrines and created the term \"State Shinto\" during the occupation of Japan to reform native Japanese ideas of church and state, under the belief that it had supported the rise of Japanese militarism before and during World War II.\n\nIn postwar years, the issue of the separation of Shinto and state arose in the Self-Defense Force Apotheosis Case. In 1973, Nakaya Takafumi, a member of the Japanese Self-Defense Forces and husband of Nakaya Yasuko, died in a traffic accident. Despite Yasuko’s refusal to provide relevant documents for her husband’s enshrinement at the Yamaguchi prefectural National-Protecting Shrine, the prefectural Veterans’ Association requested the information from the Self-Defense Forces and completed the enshrinement. As a result, in 1973, Yasuko sued the Yamaguchi Prefectural Branch of the Self-Defense Forces, on the grounds that the ceremony of apotheosis violated her religious rights as a Christian. Although Yasuko won the case at two lower courts, the ruling was overturned by the Supreme Court of Japan on June 1, 1988, based on the precedent established by the Tsu City Shinto Groundbreaking Ceremony Case. First, the Supreme Court ruled that because the Veterans’ Association—which was not an organ of the state—had acted alone when arranging the ceremony of apotheosis, no violation of Article 20 had occurred. Second, the Supreme Court held that the Self-Defense Forces' provision of Takafumi’s documents to the Veterans’ Association did not constitute a religious activity prohibited by Article 20, because neither the intention nor the effects of its action harmed or patronized any religion. Third, the Supreme Court adopted a narrow interpretation of individual religious rights, by ruling that violation of individual rights to religion did not occur unless the state or its organs coerced individuals to perform some religious activity or limited their religious freedom. On June 2, 1988, a report by the \"Los Angeles Times\" described the Japanese Supreme Court’s decision as “a major setback for advocates of stronger separation of religion and state in Japan.” On June 7, 1988, an article published in the \"New York Times\" expressed concern that the Japanese Supreme Court’s decision was likely to encourage the resurgence of State Shinto and nationalism. Because the prefectural National-Protecting Shrines perform the same ceremony of apotheosis as the Yasukuni Shrine does, the significance of this case also lies in its implications for the constitutionality of state patronage of and official visits to the Yasukuni Shrine.\n\nShichihei Yamamoto argues that Japan has shown greater tolerance towards irreligion, saying, \"Japan had nothing like the trial of Galileo or the 'monkey trial' about evolution. No Japanese Giordano Bruno was ever burned at the stake for atheism\".\n\n\nThe Japan Militant Atheists Alliance (\"Nihon Sentoteki Mushinronsha Domei\", also known as \"Senmu\") was founded in September 1931 by a group of antireligious people. The alliance opposed the idea of kokutai, the nation's founding myth, the presence of religion in public education, and the practice of State Shinto. Their greatest opposition was towards the imperial system of Japan.\n\nTwo months later, in November 1931, socialist Toshihiko Sakai and Communist Takatsu Seido created the Japan Anti-religion Alliance (\"Nihon Hanshukyo Domei\"). They opposed \"contributions to religious organizations, prayers for practical benefits (kito), preaching in factories, and the religious organizations of all stripes\" and viewed religion as a tool used by the upper class to suppress laborers and farmers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57384187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57384187", "title": "Salpe (surname)", "text": "Salpe (surname)\n\nSalpe (Kannada:ಸಲ್ಪೇ, Telugu:సల్పే, Tamil:சல்பே,Marathi:साल्पे or सालपे) is the surname of families in India who generally belongs to Veershaiva Lingayat religion settled in Maharastra.\n\nIn the 12th century, in Chalukya Kingdom Lingayat people were persecuted for their religious beliefs. To escape genocide after Revolution of Kalyana, they left in numbers to neighbouring states like Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. During the same time Salpe families migrated to Maharashtra , they settled in Salpe village in Satara district which is nearby \"Salpe Ghat\". After that they picked up name of village (Name of village as surname is very common practice in Lingayat religion) as their identity. Their original Kannada name could be difficult to pronounce in Marathi so they pick up name of village as their surname.\n. They can fluently speak both Kannada and Marathi languages. For last 500 years in Maharashtra , they were in grocery and money lending business.\n"}
{"id": "1218295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1218295", "title": "Samantabhadra", "text": "Samantabhadra\n\nSamantabhadra (Sanskrit, \"Universal Worthy\") is a bodhisattva in Mahayana Buddhism associated with practice and meditation. Together with Gautama Buddha and his fellow bodhisattva Mañjuśrī, he forms the \"Shakyamuni trinity\" in Buddhism. He is the patron of the \"Lotus Sutra\" and, according to the \"Avatamsaka Sutra\", made the ten great vows which are the basis of a bodhisattva. In Chinese Buddhism, Samantabhadra is known as Puxian and is associated with action, whereas Mañjuśrī is associated with prajñā (transcendent wisdom). In Japan, this bodhisattva is often venerated in Tendai and Shingon Buddhism, and as the protector of the \"Lotus Sutra\" by Nichiren Buddhism. In the Nyingma school of Tibetan Buddhism, Samantabhadra is also the name of the Adi-Buddha – in indivisible Yab-Yum with his consort, Samantabhadrī.\n\nIn the \"Lotus Sūtra\", Samantabhadra is described at length in the epilogue, called the \"Samantabhadra Meditation Sutra\" (), with special detail given to visualization of the bodhisattva, and the virtues of devotion to him.\n\nSamantabhadra is also a key figure in the \"Āvataṃsaka-sūtra\", particularly the last chapter, the \"Gaṇḍavyūha-sūtra\". In the climax of the \"Gaṇḍavyūha-sūtra\", the student Sudhana meets Samantabhadra Bodhisattva, who teaches him that wisdom only exists for the sake of putting it into practice; that it is only good insofar as it benefits all living beings.\n\nIn the \"Āvataṃsaka-sūtra\", the Buddha states that Samantabhadra Bodhisattva made ten great vows in his path to full Buddhahood:\n\n\nThe ten vows have become a common practice in East Asian Buddhism, particularly the tenth vow, with many Buddhists traditionally dedicating their merit and good works to all beings during Buddhist liturgies.\n\nUnlike his more popular counterpart Manjusri, Samantabhadra is only rarely depicted alone and is usually found in a trinity on the right side of Shakyamuni, mounted on a white elephant. In those traditions that accept the Avatamsaka Sutra as its root instruction, Samantabhadra and Manjusri flank Vairocana Buddha, the central Buddha of this particular sutra.\n\nKnown as Pǔxián in Chinese, he is sometimes shown in Chinese art with feminine characteristics, riding an elephant with six pairs of tusks while carrying a lotus leaf 'parasol' (Sanskrit: \"chhatra\"), bearing similar dress and features to some feminine depictions of Kuan Yin. It is in this guise that Samantabhadra is revered as the patron bodhisattva of the monasteries associated with Mount Emei in western China. Some believe that the white elephant mount of Samantabhadra was the same elephant that appeared to Queen Maya, the mother of the Buddha, to herald his birth.\n\nMahayana esoteric traditions treat Samantabhada as one of the 'Primordial' (Sanskrit: Dharmakaya) Buddhas, but the main primordial buddha is considered to be Vairocana.\n\nIt is very common that the bodhisattva of the Mahayana tradition with the name of Samantabhadra is conflated with a Buddha with the same name that appears as the primordial buddha, in some of the Tibetan traditions. This comes from the fact that both figures have the same name but their meaning within their respective traditions is quite different. It is not the case that the bodhisattva of the Mahayana has evolved or transformed when assimilated into the Tibetan tradition because in that tradition the Bodhisattva Samantabhadra is present and the Dharmakaya Samantabhadra as well as two separate and distinct entities.\n\nIn the Tibetan Buddhist tradition, particularly the Nyingma school, Dharmakaya Samantabhadra (not the bodhisattva of the Mahayana) is considered the most primordial Buddha, akin in status to Vajradhara for the Sarma traditions. Samantabhadra appears in the Vajrayana tantric text the Kunjed Gyalpo Tantra, as the Primordial Buddha, the 'embodiment' (Sanskrit: \"kaya\") or 'field' (Sanskrit: \"kṣetra\") of 'timeless awareness, gnosis' (Sanskrit: \"jñāna\") awakened since before the very beginning. Therefore, in Tibetan Buddhism the Nyingma, or 'Old Translation' school, the Sakya and the Bön schools view Samantabhadra as the Primordial Buddha. In the Nyingma school of Tibetan Buddhist Vajrayana, Samantabhadra is considered a primordial Buddha in indivisible yab-yum union with his consort Samantabhadri. However, the Kagyu and Gelug schools use Vajradhara to represent the Primordial Buddha.\n\nDzongsar Khyentse Rinpoche following the Nyingmapa Dzogchen tradition qualifies the nature and essence of Samantabhadra, the Primordial Buddha, as the origin-less wellspring of the timeless and unbounded Atiyoga teachings, and honours the converse view entertained by some interested parties which hold that the Dzogchen teachings originated with either the Bonpo tradition or the Chinese monk Moheyan:\n\nSamantabhadra is not subject to limits of time, place, or physical conditions. Samantabhadra is not a colored being with two eyes, etc. Samantabhadra is the unity of awareness and emptiness, the unity of appearances and emptiness, the nature of mind, natural clarity with unceasing compassion - that is Samantabhadra from the very beginning.\n\n'The Mirror of the Mind of Samantabhadra' () is one of the Seventeen Tantras of Dzogchen Upadesha.\n\nSri Lankan people venerate Samantabhadra Bodhisatva as Saman (also called Sumana, Samantha, Sumana Saman, Sinhalese: සුමන සමන් ‍දෙවි). The name Saman means \"the rising morning sun\". God Saman is considered one of the guardian deities of the island and of Buddhism. His main shrine is located in Ratnapura, where there is an annual festival held in his honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23307471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23307471", "title": "Sambandha", "text": "Sambandha\n\nThe word \"sambandha\" is a Sanskrit term meaning \"relationship\". It is a key concept in Sanskrit grammar, and in Gaudiya Vaishnava theology. In the context of this tradition of Hinduism, sambandha-jnana means knowledge of the relationship between Almighty God Krishna, Shakti, jivas, and the world. Accordingly, sambandha-jnana includes knowledge of the three tattvas or truths: Krishna-tattva, Shakti-tattva and jiva-tattva.\n\nSambandha in Gaudiya Vaishnavism is the relationship between Krishna, a jiva, and the material world. All jivas are eternally and inextricably linked with Krishna, who is the true object of all relations. The basic relationship between Krishna and a jiva is the attitude of a servant. By sadhana, which includes a repetition of Names of Lord Krishna (kirtan and japa), people can be freed from Maya and awakens in their heart their attachment as a servant of Krishna.\n\nVedic literature refers to the eternal relationship of a jiva with Krishna. Understanding of the relationship, and any subsequent action on the basis of this understanding, is called \"abhidheya\". Reaching Prema, or pure love of Krishna, and returning to the spiritual world in the company of Krishna and his associates, is the ultimate goal of life, which is called \"prayojana\".\n\nIn the Gaudiya Vaishnava tradition Sanatana Goswami is considered to be the Acharya of sambandha-jnana. The deity of Madan Mohan, installed by Sanatana in Vrindavan, is associated with sambandha. It is believed that he helps to overcome the influence of material desires and to focus on devotional service to Krishna.\n\n\nAdditional reference: Tadatmya Sambandha: A study in Relation of Identity, R.I. Ingalalli 1990 \n\n"}
{"id": "18277138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18277138", "title": "Santa Rosa Gurdwara Sahib", "text": "Santa Rosa Gurdwara Sahib\n\nThe Gurdwara Sahib of Santa Rosa (also commonly referred to as the Santa Rosa Gurdwara, the Sikh Temple of Santa Rosa, or the North Bay Sikh Foundation) is a center of Sikh worship.\n\nThe temple was founded in 2002, and according to a 2012 \"Press Democrat\" article, has about 100 members. It is a converted modular home located off Todd Road, in a ranching area.\n\n"}
{"id": "36554087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36554087", "title": "Siva Sthalam", "text": "Siva Sthalam\n\n(Tevara) Divya Sthalams are sacred Siva temples - 275 in total\n\nSiva Sthalams are classified by various scholars in various ways. Here's a categorization by Geography\n"}
{"id": "12623838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12623838", "title": "Sonagiri", "text": "Sonagiri\n\nSonagiri () about 60 km from Gwalior, has scores of Jain temples dating from the 9th century onwards. It is located in the Datia district of Madhya Pradesh, India. This location is popular among devotees and ascetic saints to practice self-discipline, austerity and to attain \"Moksha\" (salvation or liberation).\n\nIn Hindi, \"Sonagiri\" means a mountain ('giri') of gold ('sona').\n\nAccording to Jain texts, since the time of Chandraprabhu (the 8th Teerthankar), five and half crores of ascetic saints have achieved \"moksha\" (liberation) here. The place is considered sacred by devotees. There is a rock cut image of Chandraprabhu dating back to 5th to 6th century. The Samavsharan of Bhagwan Chandraprabhu came here seventeen times. Nang, Anang, Chintagati, Poornachand, Ashoksen, Shridatta, Swarnbhadra and many other saints achieved salvation here. \nThis is a unique place known as Laghu Sammed Shikhar covering the area of 132 acres of two hills. There are 77 Jain temples with high spires, Temple number 57 is the main temple among them. \nAcharya Shubh Chandra and Bhartrihari lived and worked here for spiritual achievements.\n\nTemple Number 57 is the main temple. This is vast in size and possess an attractive artistic spire. In this temple the principal deity is Lord Chandraprabha, 11 feet in height and two other idols of Lord Sheetalnath and Parsvanatha are installed. There is a column of dignity (Manstambh) near the temple at 43 feet in height and a model of Samavsharan.\n\nSonagiri can be accessed via Dabra-Datia Road. This also lies on Gwalior-Jhansi Road. Sonagiri Railway Station lies on Agra-Jhansi rail line. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "14513892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14513892", "title": "Sudanese teddy bear blasphemy case", "text": "Sudanese teddy bear blasphemy case\n\nThe Sudanese teddy bear blasphemy case concerns the 2007 arrest, trial, conviction, imprisonment, and subsequent release of British schoolteacher Gillian Gibbons, who taught middle-class Muslim and Christian children at Unity High School in Khartoum, Sudan. She was convicted of insulting Islam by allowing her class of six-year-olds to name a teddy bear \"Muhammad\".\n\nGillian Gibbons was born in 1953 and gained a Bachelor of Education degree from the C.F. Mott College of Education in Prescot in 1975 (the college closed in 1992). Teaching in a school in Sudan, she was arrested for allegedly insulting Islam by allowing her class of six-year-olds to name a teddy bear \"Muhammad\".\n\nInitially it was thought that the complaint had originated from a parent of one of the children at the school. However, it was later revealed that an office assistant employed at the school, Sara Khawad, had filed the complaint and was the key witness for the prosecution. Khawad was said to be angry with the school's head teacher. \"I was used by the secretary to get at the school,\" Gibbons told \"The Guardian\" shortly after her release.\n\nSudan's legal system is strongly influenced by sharia, which prohibits depictions of Muhammad and other prophets. However, many Muslim organizations in other countries publicly condemned the Sudanese over their reactions, as Gibbons did not set out to cause offence. The chairman of the Unity School council, Ezikiel Kondo, indicated that he perceived ulterior motives in the affair, \"The thing may be very simple, but they just may make it bigger. It's a kind of blackmail.\"\n\nOn 25 November 2007, Gibbons was arrested, interrogated and then put in a cell at a local police station. On 28 November, it was reported that she had been formally charged under Section 125 of the Sudanese Criminal Act, for \"insulting religion, inciting hatred, sexual harassment, racism, prostitution and showing contempt for religious beliefs\". This carries a maximum sentence of imprisonment, a fine, or 40 lashes. On 29 November 2007, Gibbons was found guilty of \"insulting religion;\" one of the three counts against her, and was sentenced to 15 days' imprisonment and deportation. The Muslim Council of Britain, an umbrella organization of British Muslim groups, including MPACUK said the punishment was \"completely unjustified\" and that it was \"appalled\", and called on the Sudanese government to intervene.\n\nOn 30 November approximately 10,000 protesters took to the streets in Khartoum, some of them waving swords and machetes, demanding Gibbons's execution after imams denounced her during Friday prayers. During the march, chants of \"Shame, shame on the UK\", \"No tolerance – execution\" and \"Kill her, kill her by firing squad\" were heard. Witnesses reported that government employees were involved in inciting the protests. Gibbons was then moved to a secret location because of fears for her safety.\n\nIn an attempt to push for the release of Gibbons, two British Muslim peers (members of the House of Lords), Lord Ahmed (Labour) and Baroness Warsi (Conservative), visited Sudan with hopes of talking to the country's President Omar al-Bashir.\n\nWhile the two British politicians were meeting the President on 3 December it was announced that Gibbons was to be released from prison having been granted a Presidential pardon. After eight days in jail, she was released into the care of the British embassy in Khartoum and then returned to Liverpool, after issuing a written statement saying: \"I have a great respect for the Islamic religion and would not knowingly offend anyone.\"\n\nThe school was closed until January 2008 for the safety of pupils and staff as reprisals were feared.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "315165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315165", "title": "Techniques of Knowledge", "text": "Techniques of Knowledge\n\nKnowledge is a term used by Shri Hans Ji Maharaj (Hans Rawat) to denote a formulation of four specific techniques that were imparted in a process of initiation. The term continues to be used by two of Shri Hans Ji Maharaj's sons, Satpal Rawat and Prem Rawat.\n\nThese techniques have some similarities to techniques in Sant Mat derived movements and may be derived from Surat Shabd Yoga. Additionally, Kranenborg writes that the techniques of Knowledge originated from the Surat Shabda Yoga or Sant Mat, the Path of the Sound Current, and that some of the techniques are related to the 'japa-' or mantra-yoga which are similar to some techniques of Transcendental meditation and the Hare Krishnas.\n\nThe website \"Maharaji.org\" (1999) included the traceable story of \"Masters\" that, according to Prem Rawat, referred to the techniques of Knowledge since 1780, including Totapuri, Anandpuri Ji, Dayal Ji, Swarupanand Ji, and his father Hans Ji Maharaj.\n\nAccording to the Dutch religious scholar and Christian minister Reender Kranenborg and the American religious scholar J. Gordon Melton, these techniques are secret and were originally called \"Light\", \"Sound\", \"Name\" or \"Word\" and \"Nectar\" but Prem Rawat now refers to them as the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th techniques. Prem Rawat asks practitioners to promise \"not to reveal these techniques to anyone\", but says to \"let other people go through their own journey... [so] they, too, can have the techniques when they are ready.\"\n\nKranenborg and Melton provide differing details of them in their writings but agree on a general description of the practices. \"Light\" involves careful pressure on the eyes, seeking to open the \"third eye\" after a long period of training and practice. This is comparable to similar Tantric practices. \"Sound\" involves positioning the hands over the ears and temples, with the goal of hearing the \"heavenly music\". This is reported to be related to sabda-brahman meditation. \"Name\", or \"Word\", is a meditation concentrating on breath. Kranenborg additionally states that it employs mantras while exhaling. \"Nectar\" involves tongue positioning, eventually leading the student to taste the \"nectar of life\". Michael Drury, describes these techniques as helping the practitioner to develop \"a deep and spiritual self-knowledge.\" \n\nAnother description including the details of the four techniques of knowledge is provided by Dr. Daniel Kriegman who describes the recruitment process utilized by the Divine Light Mission in the early 1970s.\n\nJeffrey K. Hadden cites Prem Rawat in saying that \"Knowledge is a way to be able to take all your senses that have been going outside all your life, turn them around and put them inside to feel and to actually experience you... What you are looking for is inside of you.\"\n\nGlen Whitaker, former national organizer of Elan Vital in the UK, said \"That which we seek is already within us. The process of reaching it is one of learning to experience what is already there. It is one the individual needs to perform for him — or herself, with the guidance and help of the teacher\".\n\nAccording to George D. Chryssides, this Knowledge was based on self-understanding, providing the practitioner with calmness, peace, and contentment, as the inner-self is identical with the divine, and that Prem Rawat emphasizes that Knowledge is universal, not Indian, in nature.\n\nAccording to Stephen J. Hunt \"the major focus of Prem Rawat is on stillness, peace, and contentment within the individual, and his 'Knowledge' consists of the techniques to obtain them. Knowledge, roughly translated, means the happiness of the true self-understanding. Each individual should seek to comprehend his or her true self. In turn, this brings a sense of well-being, joy, and harmony as one comes in contact with one's \"own nature.\" The process of reaching the true self within can only be achieved by the individual, but with the guidance and help of a teacher. Hence, the movement seems to embrace aspects of world-rejection and world-affirmation. The tens of thousands of followers in the West do not see themselves as members of a religion, but the adherents of a system of teachings that extol the goal of enjoying life to the full.\"\n\nThe experience of Knowledge is described by practitioners as internal and highly individual. The techniques are to be practised privately, with no social structure or hierarchy related to their practice. According to students, there is no liturgy or social obligation involved, but Prem Rawat instructs them to practise the techniques daily for at least one hour to fully benefit from them. They also say that the techniques are universally applicable and their practice has no impact on or relationship to a student's gender, race, sexual orientation, economic status or national origin. Elan Vital, the organization that succeeded the Divine Light Mission, also states that practice of Knowledge will not affect a person's religion.\n\nIn his early days in the West, Prem Rawat or his instructors (called Mahatmas in India) conducted these sessions face-to-face with small groups.\n\nWim Haan, a student of theology who belonged to a critical movement within the Roman Catholic Church, wrote that receiving Knowledge involved a formal initiation that the aspirant had to keep secret and that he believed that the reason for the secrecy was a direct connection between the techniques, the initiation and the need to live a life of devotion to Rawat. Haan, who did not receive the techniques of Knowledge, also wrote that the fact that other groups may also use the same techniques would probably not help to increase the interest in them. Haan wrote this article based on observations of the Dutch branch of the defunct DLM between 1980 and 1981.\n\nAs of 2001 the techniques are taught via a multimedia presentation made by Prem Rawat. It is available in more than 50 languages (of which he speaks five himself: English, Hindi, Nepalese, Spanish and Italian. The other languages are dubbed). In this presentation, Prem Rawat explains the techniques step-by-step, demonstrating them in ample detail, to ensure that these are understood and practised correctly. The process takes 2½ hours, of which one hour is dedicated to practicing the techniques, 15 minutes each. Before the presentation starts, people hear Prem Rawat asking for three promises: a) to keep in touch, b) to give Knowledge a fair chance, and c) to not to share these techniques with anyone. He then asks attendees to stay and receive \"the gift of Knowledge\" if they agree with these three promises.\n\nThe Knowledge Sessions are facilitated by volunteers who operate the video equipment and ensure the comfort of the attendees and assist them if needed. Knowledge Sessions are available throughout the year in most Western countries. In India, due to the large numbers, there are Knowledge Sessions every day of the year. In special cases, such as people in hospitals, or bed-ridden, etc., the volunteers go to the people to conduct the Session.\n\nIn 2005, Prem Rawat further developed his teaching style by introducing The Keys, a program of five DVD packs which prepare the student for receiving Knowledge. The techniques are taught in Key Six. Prem Rawat advises students that for maximum benefit the techniques should be practised daily for at least one hour.\n"}
{"id": "47840877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47840877", "title": "Teetotalism", "text": "Teetotalism\n\nTeetotalism is the practice or promotion of complete personal abstinence from alcoholic beverages. A person who practices (and possibly advocates) teetotalism is called a \"teetotaler\" (plural \"teetotalers\") or is simply said to be \"teetotal\". The teetotalism movement was first started in Preston, England, in the early 19th century. The Preston Temperance Society was founded in 1833 by Joseph Livesey, who was to become a leader of the temperance movement and the author of \"The Pledge\": \"We agree to abstain from all liquors of an intoxicating quality whether ale, porter, wine or ardent spirits, except as medicine.\"\n\nThere is some dispute over the origin of the word \"teetotaler.\" One anecdote attributes the origin of the word to a meeting of the Preston Temperance Society in 1833. The story attributes the word to Richard Turner, a member of the society, who in a speech said \"I'll be reet down out-and-out t-t-total for ever and ever.\" Walter William Skeat noted that the Turner anecdote had been recorded by temperance advocate Joseph Livesey, and posited that the term may have been inspired by the teetotum; however, James B. Greenough stated that \"nobody ever thought \"teetotum\" and \"teetotaler\" were etymologically connected.\"\n\nA variation on the above account is found on the pages of \"The Charleston Observer\": \nAn alternative explanation is that \"teetotal\" is simply a reduplication of the first \"T\" in \"total\" (T-total). It is said that as early as 1827 in some Temperance Societies signing a \"T\" after one's name signified one's pledge for total abstinence. In England in the 1830s, when the word first entered the lexicon, it was also used in other contexts as an emphasized form of \"total\"; a comparable American English locution would be \"total with a capital T\" (an instance of the \"[word] with a capital [word-initial letter]\" snowclone).\n\nAccording to historian Daniel Walker Howe (\"What Hath God Wrought: The Transformation of America, 1815-1848\", 2007) the term was derived from the practice of American preacher and temperance advocate Lyman Beecher. He would take names at his meetings of people who pledged alcoholic temperance and noted those who pledged total abstinence with a T. Such persons became known as \"Teetotallers\".\n\nSome common reasons for choosing teetotalism are psychological, religious, health, medical, familial, philosophical, social, past alcoholism, or sometimes it is simply a matter of taste or preference. When at drinking establishments, teetotalers (or teetotallers) either abstain from drinking completely, or consume non-alcoholic beverages such as water, juice, tea, coffee, non-alcoholic soft drinks, virgin drinks, mocktails, and alcohol-free beer.\n\nMost teetotaler organizations also demand from their members that they do not promote or produce alcoholic intoxicants.\n\nAbstention from alcohol is a tenet of a number of religious faiths, including Hinduism, such as the Swaminarayans; Sikhism; Bahá'ís; Jains; and Meivazhi-ites.\n\n\"Khamr\" is the term for all intoxicants which are prohibited in Islam. (See )\n\nSimilarly, one of the five precepts of Buddhism is abstaining from intoxicating substances that disturb the peace and self-control of the mind, but it is formulated as a training rule to be assumed voluntarily rather than as a commandment.\n\nA number of Christian denominations also forbid the consumption of alcohol, including the Amish, Seventh-day Adventists, Mennonites (both Old Order and Conservative), Church of the Brethren members, and Christian Scientists. Many Christian groups, such as Methodists, Mormons, and Quakers, are often associated with teetotalism due to their traditionally strong support for temperance movements and prohibition. However, tenets forbidding the consumption of alcohol are variably practiced. For example, Church of the Nazarene, an offshoot of Methodism does teach abstinence from alcohol. In many Christian denominations, abstinence is not a religious requirement, but the tradition is strong enough to make ritual and recreational alcohol consumption a controversial issue among members. Members of the Salvation Army make a promise on joining the movement to observe lifelong abstinence from alcohol. The Catholic Church, Orthodox churches, and Anglicanism all require wine in their central religious rite of the eucharist, and while many Protestant churches often allow grape juice or alcohol-free wine in their communion services, only a few Protestants require a non-alcoholic beverage as official policy. (See Christianity and alcohol.)\n\nMany members of these religious groups are also required to refrain from selling such products. A translation of the New Testament, the Purified Translation of the Bible, translates in a way that promotes teetotalism.\n\nDominic Conroy and Richard de Visser published research in \"Psychology and Health\" which studied strategies used by college students who would like to resist peer pressure to drink alcohol in social settings. The research hinted that students are less likely to give in to peer pressure if they have strong friendships and make a decision not to drink before social interactions.\n\nCaroline H. McClave published a comparison of three studies entitled \"Asexuality as a Spectrum: A National Probability Sample Comparison to the Sexual Community in the UK\" which found that asexuals and gray-asexuals drank significantly less and were more likely to abstain from drinking than the people not of those sexual orientations.\n\nA 2015 study by the Office for National Statistics showed that young Britons were more likely to be teetotalers than their parents.\n\nIn one study, increased teetotalism within a family was associated with a lower level of alcoholism and vice versa. This suggests there is an inverse relationship between teetotalism and alcoholism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32685731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32685731", "title": "The Magic of Reality", "text": "The Magic of Reality\n\nThe Magic of Reality: How We Know What's Really True is a 2011 book by the British biologist Richard Dawkins, with illustrations by Dave McKean. The book was released on 15 September 2011 in the United Kingdom, and on 4 October 2011 in the United States.\n\nIt is a graphic science book aimed primarily at children and young adults. Dawkins has stated that the book is intended for those aged around 12 years and upwards, and that when trialling the book prior to publishing, younger readers were able to understand its content with additional adult assistance.\n\nThe book is published in the United Kingdom by Bantam Press, and in the United States by Free Press.\n\nIn the first chapter of the book, Richard Dawkins explains what he means with the title \"The Magic of Reality\":\nMost chapters begin with brief re-tellings of creation myths that emerged as attempts to explain the origin of particular observed phenomena. Dawkins selects these myths from throughout the world, including Babylonian, Judeo-Christian, Aztec, Maori, Ancient Egyptian, Australian Aboriginal, Nordic, Hellenic, Chinese, Japanese, and other traditions. Chapter 9 (\"Are we alone?\") includes contemporary alien-abduction mythology; Chapter 4 (\"What are things made of?\") omits mythology altogether as Dawkins says that really small phenomena were unknown to primitive peoples prior to the invention of advanced optical magnification equipment, any texts they believed to be divinely inspired having failed to mention such useful knowledge as beyond human experience at the time. Dawkins also revisits his childhood and recalls his initial thoughts on these various phenomena or those thoughts expressed by his young contemporaries. Dawkins gives his critique of many of the myths, such as when he points out that much mythology involves some god's symbolic transgressive act performed just once, with Dawkins saying that such one-time acts would be inadequate to explain the mechanism as to why the phenomena continue to happen in unbroken cycles.\n\nIn the opening chapter Dawkins explains that although mythic narratives and make-believe are fun parts of growing up, reality — with its fundamental capacity for beauty — is much more magical than anything impossible. The Fairy Godmother from Cinderella cannot magically turn a pumpkin into a carriage outside the bounds of fiction, because pumpkins and carriages possess internal organisation that is fundamentally complex. A large pumpkin randomly reassembled at the most minute level would be much more likely to result in a featureless pile of ash or sludge than in a complex and intricately organised carriage.\n\nIn the subsequent chapters Dawkins addresses topics that range from evolutionary biology and speciation to physical phenomena such as atomic theory, optics, planetary motion, gravitation, stellar evolution, spectroscopy, and plate tectonics, as well as speculation on exobiology. Dawkins characterises his understanding of quantum mechanics as foggy\nand so declines to delve very far into that topic. Dawkins declares that there was no first person, to make the point that evolutionary biologists use the term \"species\" to demark differences in gene composition — over often thousands of generations of separation — rather than from any one generation to the next. To illustrate this he undertakes a thought-experiment involving family photographs. If, hypothetically, there existed a complete set of photographs of all one's direct male ancestors arranged in order of birth date (or hatch date) from youngest to oldest stretching back millions of generations, from one generation to the next one would not perceive much difference between any two adjacent pictures—looking at a picture of one's grandfather or great-grandfather one is looking at a picture of a human—but if one looked at a picture from 185 million generations back one would see an image of some kind of fish-like animal. Dawkins stresses this point by saying the offspring of any sexually reproducing life form belongs in almost all cases to the same \"species\" as do its parents, with the exception of unviable hybrids such as mules.\n\nThe last two chapters discuss chaos and the human psychology behind so-called miracle claims such as the examples of Our Lady of Fátima and the Cottingley Fairies. Dawkins presents philosopher David Hume's argument that miracle claims should only be seriously accepted if it would be a bigger miracle that the claimant was either lying or mistaken. Dawkins regards miracle claims written down in texts subsequently deemed sacred as not exempt from this standard.\n\nTim Radford, in his \"Guardian\" review, calls the presentation of the physical book \"prodigiously illustrated and beautifully designed\", and regarding the content says \"it is a distillation of so much that Dawkins has written and argued since the publication of \"The Selfish Gene\" ... The strength is that he knows his ground. The weakness is that – for a 'family audience' – he deliberately constrains his vocabulary along with the exuberant imagery and belligerence that made his reputation from the start.\"\n\nThe \"New Scientist\" article collates the reviews of Andy Coghlan and those of his 20-year-old daughter Phoebe and his 13-year-old son Callum. Coghlan calls the book \"a triumph\" but wishes Dawkins had a chapter entitled \"Why do people do bad things to others?\" saying \"The book provides a golden opportunity for Dawkins to ask whether we can evolve to treat one another more civilly. Alas, he doesn't seize it.\" Coghlan also supports Dawkins \"encouraging readers to be bowled over by the stunning beauty of reality – a sentiment I thoroughly support. Too few of us wake up each day and reflect on how amazing it is that we are not only alive, but aware of being alive.\" Phoebe liked the book, she writes \"I was unable to put the book down. I found myself enjoying learning exciting new facts and having old ones reinforced. It was definitely no repeat of the classroom scenario... Perhaps the book's greatest asset is that it manages to bring science to life. The vibrant illustrations reinforce this, as do the fun font styles... His style is colloquial, creating a relaxed, lighter tone.\" Callum, who is closest to the intended age for the book, doesn't need to be persuaded about the bounds of reality, he writes: \"Miracles don't exist. Simple as that. \"The Magic of Reality\" hasn't changed my views on anything.\"\n\nNeville Hawcock for the \"Financial Times\" praises Dawkins' clarity in explanation: \"He really is very good at this. The chapter on rainbows has the clearest explanation of how they appear that I’ve ever seen.\" Of the myths Dawkins uses Hawcock writes: \"These, straw gods set up for Dawkins to knock down, are not up to the job of accounting for reality but at least give McKean some great subject matter.\" Meghan Cox Gurdon writing for the \"Wall Street Journal\" says: \"His tone throughout alternates between real delight over how things work and avuncular pity for the people who persist in seeing an author behind the machinery of the universe... There is no plan, winks Mr. Dawkins, nor any divinity. There is just the 'magic' of the universe unfolding. If that is the view you wish your children to have of the cosmos, then \"The Magic of Reality\" will suit you very well.\"\n\nDuring Richard Dawkins' October 2011 book tour, its sponsor Center for Inquiry signed a contract with Wyndgate Country Club in Rochester Hills, Michigan, as the venue site. After seeing an interview with Dawkins on \"The O'Reilly Factor\", an official at the club cancelled Dawkins' appearance. Dawkins said that the country club official accepted Bill O'Reilly's \"twisted\" interpretation of the book without having read it personally. Sean Faircloth said that cancelling the reading \"really violates the basic principles of America ... The Civil Rights Act ... prohibits discrimination based on race or religious viewpoint. ... [Dawkins has] published numerous books ... to explain science to the public, so it's rather an affront, to reason in general, to shun him as they did.\" The Center for Inquiry Michigan executive director, Jeff Seaver, stated that \"This action by The Wyndgate illustrates the kind of bias and bigotry that nonbelievers encounter all the time.\" Following the cancellation, protests and legal action by the Center for Inquiry against the Wyndgate Country Club were pursued. In 2013 this case was settled in favour of the Center For Inquiry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53531903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53531903", "title": "Uma Ukpai", "text": "Uma Ukpai\n\nUma Ukpai (born January 7, 1945) is a Christian leader, an evangelist, and a preacher.\n\nUma Ukpai is a Trustee of the Penticostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) established in 1986. He is a Grand Patron, and a member of the National Advisory Council, of Penticostal Fellowship of Nigeria, PFN.\n\nBorn in Asaga, Ohafia, Abia State, Uma Ukpai met Jesus Christ in 1958. He lost his father to death at the age of 10. Uma Ukpai describing how his early life challenges nearly impaired his career development remarked “I know what it means to lose a father and be a father from that age. I know what it is to save money to pay school fees. So, I have feelings for the poor. I learnt early enough to know that the stone satan throws at you can become a stepping stone.”\n\nHe attended Uma Ukpai Memorial Primary School, Asaga, and Khana County Council School, Ogoni. Uma passed through All Saints Secondary School, Aba, and Niger Delta Technical School, now Boys Technical College, Aba. Uma Ukpai graduated from the School of Journalism and Television, Frisham, Hermitage, United Kingdom; South Florida Christian College Miami, Florida, USA; Carolina Christian University and Burke Bible College, Kentucky, USA. He holds a Certificate in Electrical Engineering Practice, a Diploma in Journalism, a Bachelor and Doctorate Degrees in Divinity.\n\nUma is married to Philomena Uma Ukpai, a pastor. Their marriage produced 8 children and an adopted child. Uma Ukpai lost 2 of his children in a car accident on the same day.\n\nUma Ukpai is called to build bridges between different denominations through his evangelistic, prophetic and crusade ministry. For more than 30 years, the ministry has run a medical outreach whilst doing the work of God. Uma Ukpai Evangelistic Association, UUEA, is one of the financiers of Penticostal Fellowship of Nigeria, (PFN).\n\nUma Ukpai has held many city wide crusades all over Nigeria. At present he holds a yearly crusade, Greater Ohafia For Christ Crusade and Anioma One-million Man Crusade, 2016, Nsukka 2012, and Greater Ibadan for Christ 1982.< It was his Greater Lagos for Christ Crusade of 1985 that gave birth to the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN).\nUma Ukpai is the chairman of Uma Ukpai Eye Centre, and King of Kings Hospital, a specialist hospital in Abia State, that services communities in Abia, Akwa Ibom and Cross River States.\n\nHe is the proprietor of Uma Ukpai School of Theology and Biblical Studies, Uyo, Uma Ukpai Polytechnic Asaga, Uma Ukpai Scholarship Foundation and Joseph business school, affiliate of Joseph business school Chicago, USA.\n"}
{"id": "46822552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46822552", "title": "Usermontu (mummy)", "text": "Usermontu (mummy)\n\n\"Usermontu\" is an ancient Egyptian mummy exhibited at the Rosicrucian Egyptian Museum of San Jose, California.\n\nThe name \"Usermontu\" – which means, \"Powerful is Montu\" – almost certainly does not match the still-unknown name originally belonged to the mummified man. The mistake arose because long after death the mummy was placed in a coffin originally belonged to another man, a priest named Usermontu, and was still inside of it at the time of rediscovery.<br>\nThe mummy is very well preserved, and is also known for having an ancient but sophisticated prosthetic pin in its left knee.\n\nIn 1971 the Rosicrucian Museum acquired two sealed ancient Egyptian coffins from Neiman-Marcus. Unbeknownst to all, one of the coffin still contained the mummy which was discovered soon after the purchase. On the basis of the embalming type originally provided to “Usermontu”, it is believed that he was an upper-class Egyptian male who likely lived – and ultimately died – during the New Kingdom of Egypt (between 16th–11th century BCE). For a reason that remains unknown to us, several centuries after death his corpse was put inside the coffin of the “real” Usermontu who lived during the 26th Dynasty. Some time around 400 BCE, as suggested by radiocarbon dating, the body underwent another wrapping with linen bandages which are still visible today.<br>\nThere is no clue of where the coffin and the mummy originally came from. In life the man should have been a natural redhead and his mummy is about tall.\n\nIn August 1995 BYU professor C. Wilfred Griggs performed some X-ray scans on the Rosicrucian mummies and discovered the presence of a iron-made orthopedic screw inside “Usermontu”'s left knee. Griggs initially believed that the pin was inserted in modern times in order to reattach the leg to the rest of the body, so he later obtained permission to unwrap the leg and directly examine the pin in order to solve the mystery. After the examination Griggs realized that the pin could not be inserted in modern times, and must have been placed after the man's death but before his burial, a hypothesis confirmed by further analysis. The pin was held in place by an organic resin, analogous to modern bone cement. By doing so, those who performed the operation ensured the integrity of the body, required for the ancient Egyptian afterlife.\n"}
{"id": "38835199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38835199", "title": "When God Writes Your Love Story", "text": "When God Writes Your Love Story\n\nWhen God Writes Your Love Story: The Ultimate Approach to Guy/Girl Relationships is a 1999 book by Eric and Leslie Ludy, an American married couple. After becoming a bestseller on the Christian book market, the book was republished in 2004 and then revised and expanded in 2009. It tells the story of the authors' first meeting, courtship, and marriage. The authors advise single people not to be physically or emotionally intimate with others, but to wait for the spouse that God has planned for them. The first edition was packaged with a CD single by the Ludys: \"Faithfully\", a song they had written specifically to accompany the book.\n\nThe book is divided into five sections and sixteen chapters. Each chapter is written from the perspective of one of the two authors; nine are by Eric, while Leslie wrote seven, as well as the introduction. The Ludys argue that one's love life should be both guided by and subordinate to one's relationship with God. Leslie writes that God offers new beginnings to formerly unchaste or sexually abused individuals.\n\nOther American Christian authors, such as Mark Matlock and Jason Evert, wrote highly of \"When God Writes Your Love Story\". Leah Andrews of the \"Lewiston Morning Tribune\" compared \"When God Writes Your Love Story\" to other popular Christian books providing alternatives to dating, including Joshua Harris's \"I Kissed Dating Goodbye\" and \"\". Eastern University Christian studies professors Margaret and Dwight Peterson responded to the Ludys' book by writing an essay called \"God Does Not Want to Write Your Love Story,\" in which the Petersons argue that the book makes young people see marriage as a fantasy comparable to that of Disney Princesses, and that this fantasy often results in disappointment. Rick Holland, an instructor at The Master's College and Seminary and pastor of College and Student Ministries at Grace Community Church, criticized the Ludys' description of dating, claiming it was based too much on anecdotes and not enough on the Bible.\n\n\"When God Writes Your Love Story\", first published in the United States in 1999, is the third book written by Eric and Leslie Ludy, an American married couple. Like the Ludys' previous two books, \"His Perfect Faithfulness: The Story of our Courtship\" (1996) and \"Romance God's Way\" (1997), its major themes are romance and Christianity; it tells the story of the authors' first meeting, courtship, and marriage. After becoming a bestseller on the Christian book market, \"When God Writes Your Love Story\" was republished in 2004 and then revised and expanded in 2009. More than 350,000 copies were sold worldwide by 2009. Translations of the book have been published in Spanish, German, and Traditional Chinese.\n\nEric and Leslie Ludy met when Eric was 21 and Leslie was 16. They pursued a friendship for several months before starting to court, and married in December 1994, the same month that Eric turned 24. In \"When God Writes Your Love Story\", the Ludys advise single people not to be physically or emotionally intimate with others, but to wait for the life partner that God has planned for them; the Ludys suggest that one should marry this person rather than independently choosing a mate. Also focusing on premarital physical and emotional purity, the authors do not discuss the physical processes of sexual activity. Like many other Christian books about premarital romantic relationships, the Ludys' book explicitly does not present a set of rules to follow or a strategy for romantic success, but rather gives readers a framework for pursuing Christian romantic relationships; the book is intended to be a tool in the creation of the reader's unique romantic relationship rather than as a blueprint explaining what all Christian romantic relationships are supposed to look like.\n\nBefore the book's release, it was endorsed by Leslie and Les Parrott, authors of \"Saving Your Marriage Before It Starts\"; Beverly LaHaye of Concerned Women for America; and Joe White, President of Kanakuk Kamps. The first edition was packaged with a CD single by the Ludys: \"Faithfully\", a song they had written specifically to accompany the book, with lyrics discussing the beauty of having a life partner.\n\nThe book is divided into five sections and sixteen chapters. Each chapter is written from the perspective of one of the two authors; nine are by Eric, while Leslie writes seven, as well as the introduction. The first section, \"Desiring a Love Story\", addresses sexual desire and lovesickness, suggesting that temporary relationships cannot fulfill those longings. Section Two, \"Preparing for a Love Story\", advances ways in which one might, before initiating a romantic relationship, develop the characteristics of a good spouse. The next section, \"Waiting for a Love Story\", discusses the practice of fidelity to one's future spouse before meeting them by way of sexual abstinence and argues that waiting indefinitely is worth it even if one's soulmate never arrives. In the fourth section, \"Sweetening a Love Story\", the Ludys provide advice on how to proceed once the possibility of a romantic relationship has presented itself. The final section, \"Discovering a God-written Love Story\", argues that it is never too late to give God control of one's love life, and that this sacrifice should be made not in expectation of personal benefit but rather to benefit one's future spouse and to honor God.\n\nEarly in the book, Eric retells a portion of Homer's \"Odyssey\", describing the episode in which Ulysses sails near the land of the Sirens: creatures whose song so attracts seafarers that they sail towards them and crash on the rocks. In this story, Ulysses orders all his men to fill their ears with beeswax and then tie him to the mast; the ship therefore sails through the area unharmed. Still, Ulysses, hearing the Sirens' song the entire time, is tortured by its beauty and his inability to get to the song's source. Eric follows this story with a retelling of the story of Orpheus's encounter with the Sirens. In this story, Orpheus's solution is to play a \"sweeter song\" than that of the Sirens; his ship also passes unharmed, his men so entranced by his song that they do not notice the Sirens. Eric then argues from analogy that, normally, those who force themselves to resist premarital sexual and romantic temptations are likely to find the process torturous (like Ulysses), while those who listen to the plans God has for them find waiting for marriage much easier (as it was for Orpheus's crew). Eric expands on the concept of the \"sweeter song\" throughout the book and often refers to it. Another frequently mentioned concept in the book is \"the beautiful side of love\"; the Ludys use this phrase to refer to a lasting, satisfying romance and contrast this state with such other experiences as breakups, unrequited love, and sexual frustration.\n\nThe Ludys argue that one's love life should be both guided by and subordinate to one's relationship with God. They suggest that, \"if God's plan and purpose for you is marriage, then the person you will one day marry ... is alive and wandering the earth\" and that this knowledge should encourage people to act in such a way that their future spouses would be pleased. The Ludys contest the definition of \"true love\" as an emotion; instead, they define \"true love\" as the choice to commit to another person no matter what happens. Eric writes that \"there are two ways each of us can approach life: spending our days meeting our needs or looking for ways to meet others' needs. The mystery is that when we spend our life focused on our own needs, we are never satisfied ... but when we pour out our life and focus on how we can serve others ... our deepest needs are met as well!\"\n\nLeslie argues that non-permanent relationships involving physical or emotional intimacy (or both) result in long-term psychological pain and that one should therefore only become physically or emotionally intimate with one's spouse. Eric retells the Greek myth of the suitors of Penelope, in which Penelope, whose husband Ulysses is erroneously believed to be dead, resists a large number of marriage proposals until Ulysses returns and kills the suitors. Eric uses the story to suggest that one should be faithful to one's future spouse even if it appears that they will never arrive. Eric argues that selfless service is an important part of marriage. He therefore suggests that a good way for a man to make himself ready for his future spouse is to serve his mother and sisters, and that single women should practice serving their fathers and brothers. Leslie writes that she is commonly asked the question \"How will I know when a relationship is from God?\" and her response is that people are likelier to recognize that a relationship is from God when they have a \"team ... made up of godly people who can keep us accountable to our commitments, pray with us, and provide a refreshing outside perspective.\" She indicates that this team should include one's parents or, if one does not have living Christian parents, other Christians of an older generation. She writes that God offers new beginnings to formerly unchaste or sexually abused individuals.\n\n\"When God Writes Your Love Story\" is a popular Christian book that provides alternatives to dating. For this reason, Leah Andrews of the \"Lewiston Morning Tribune\" compared the book to Joshua Harris's \"I Kissed Dating Goodbye\" and \"\". \"When God Writes Your Love Story\" also contains Evangelical sexual abstinence teachings. Christine Gardner, a communications professor at Wheaton College, investigates such teachings in \"Making Chastity Sexy: The Rhetoric of Evangelical Abstinence Campaigns\", and discusses the Ludys' book as part of this investigation. Gardner writes that she interviewed a twenty-two-year-old woman who had read \"When God Writes Your Love Story\" and \"desperately wanted God to write her love story, but she thought that she would help him out by filling in the blanks.\" Gardner argues that the result \"was a fractured fairy tale, one without a happy ending.\"\n\nIn the journal \"Critical Research on Religion\", Courtney Ann Irby of Loyola University Chicago writes that the Ludys disparage secular American culture as overtly sexual and thus an obstacle to Christians. According to Irby, secular beliefs about dating are negatively presented in \"When God Writes Your Love Story\" and hookup culture is consistently discussed, although Irby indicates that, since the publication of the Ludys' book, some scholars have disputed the prevalence of casual sex in the United States. Irby suggests that the Ludys have no discernible qualifications to speak on the issues they discuss, but rather justify their message by emphasising their own personal experience as the reason for their authority. She writes that the Ludys recognize their lack of expertise and therefore emphasize trusting God as being more important than learning from the specific stories in the book. Irby suggests that the Ludys' book is, in these respects, similar to many other Evangelical books about premarital romantic relationships, such as Dannah Gresh's \"And the Bride Wore White\", Elisabeth Elliot's \"Passion and Purity\" and \"Quest for Love\", Don Raunikar's \"Choosing God's Best\", Ben Young's and Sam Adams' \"The Ten Commandments of Dating\", Henry Cloud's and John Townsend's \"Boundaries in Dating\", Alex Chediak's \"5 Paths to the Love of Your Life\", and Joshua Harris's \"I Kissed Dating Goodbye\" and \"Boy Meets Girl\".\n\nChristine A. Colón and Bonnie E. Field, two single women in their thirties, expressed their frustrations with the Ludys' book in \"Singled Out: Why Celibacy Must Be Reinvented in Today's Church\". Colón, an English professor at Wheaton College; and Field, a former English professor at Wayland Baptist University, criticize Leslie Ludy's account of her own wait for God to bring her a romantic partner. They argue that \"the language Ludy uses to describe her time of waiting and trusting implies a difficult and long struggle that is finally rewarded by God\" and suggests that a long wait results in an even greater reward, a concept that Colón and Field, despite acknowledging as commonplace, disagree with and trace back to William Shakespeare's \"Cymbeline\", which states \"the more delay'd, delighted.\" \"Singled Out\" suggests that, because Leslie was only 16 when she met Eric, her story is unlikely to inspire hope in older singles.\n\nColón and Field compare \"When God Writes Your Love Story\" to Derek Prince's \"God Is a Matchmaker\", and argue that Prince's book better expresses the concept that God allows some people to receive their soulmates quickly, while requiring others to undergo a long wait. While the Ludys' book suggests that it is worth waiting for a soulmate because the wait indicates a better prize, Colón and Field favour Prince's reasons for advocating waiting for one's soulmate, which are that doing so tests one's faith and that \"God has required many of His choicest servants to wait long periods for the fulfillment of His promise or purpose.\"\n\nMargaret and Dwight Peterson, an American married couple who are Christian Studies professors at Eastern University, teach a course together called \"Christian Marriage\" and were very critical of \"When God Writes Your Love Story\". They responded to the Ludys' book by writing an essay called \"God Does Not Want to Write Your Love Story.\" They write therein that, while they read \"When God Writes Your Love Story\", \"it began to dawn on us with particular clarity how different these stories of romance are from any traditionally Christian understanding of marriage.\" In response to Leslie Ludy's recommendation that a single woman should seek to be God's princess until becoming the princess of a human prince, the Petersons argue that this analogy makes young people see marriage as a fantasy comparable to that of Disney Princesses, and that this fantasy often results in disappointment. While referencing \"When God Writes Your Love Story\" specifically on several occasions, the Petersons acknowledge that the Ludys' book is one of many books with this premise and write that \"it is the entire genre that is problematic.\"\n\nRick Holland, an instructor at The Master's College and Seminary and pastor of College and Student Ministries at Grace Community Church, criticized the Ludys' description of dating, claiming it was based too much on anecdotes and not enough on the Bible. Nonetheless, he commended the couple on the relevant Bible verses they do quote and he argued that the advice the Ludys share in the book is sound and that their story is an encouraging one.\n\n\"When God Writes Your Love Story\" was received positively by some American Christian authors. In \"Freshman: The College Student's Guide to Developing Wisdom\", Mark Matlock, an ordained minister and youth pastor recommends \"When God Writes Your Love Story\" to college students. He describes the Ludys' book as funny, honest, and candid. Jason Evert, a Catholic author and chastity speaker, wrote positively of \"When God Writes Your Love Story\" in his book \"If You Really Loved Me: 100 Questions on Dating, Relationships, and Sexual Purity\". Evert commends Leslie Ludy writing about the importance of listening intently and regularly to God's voice in seeking discernment about romantic relationships. Also in \"If You Really Loved Me\", Evert praises a passage from \"When God Writes Your Love Story\" in which Leslie Ludy recalls having spoken with a group of young men who all agreed that the most desirable women were those who were slow to establish strong emotional attachments to potential romantic partners, and that the least desirable women were those who were emotionally promiscuous. According to Evert, these men are right; he uses the passage to support his argument that lack of sexual experience is attractive.\n\nCommentators have also noted the song \"Faithfully\" that accompanied the book. The Petersons criticized it, arguing that its lyrics suggest that singles should seek a kind of unachievable perfection in their future marriage and spouse. On the other hand, in \"Eyes Wide Open: Avoiding the Heartbreak of Emotional Promiscuity\", Brienne Murk, a Christian musician and public speaker, identifies \"Faithfully\" as one of her favourite songs.\n\nIn \"22 and Single: A Coming of Age Story\", Katie Kiesler wrote that, after reading the first chapter of \"When God Writes Your Love Story\", she stopped because \"it was too hard to hear about the wonderful way in which God brought another perfect couple together — because it wasn't happening for me.\" She wrote that her friends kept recommending the book to her, even after she had tried starting it. She eventually decided that the reason she didn't like the book was her own selfishness in seeking to fulfill her own desires rather than leaving her desires for God to work out. She then read the book again, and wrote that God used her reading of it to make her thankful for her time as a single person. She also wrote that she found the book to be \"mostly about letting God's love overflow into all areas of your life rather than tales of perfect Christian couples.\"\n\nIn 2012, Clear Choices Pregnancy Resources Center, an American pro-life crisis pregnancy center operated by Christians in Grayson County, Kentucky, offered a course on the topic of sexual integrity that employed \"When God Writes Your Love Story\" and two other Christian books as its basis, the other two being Gary Chapman's \"The Five Love Languages\" and Bill and Pam Farrel's \"Single Men Are Like Waffles — Single Women Are Like Spaghetti\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20143799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20143799", "title": "Wilhelm Bousset", "text": "Wilhelm Bousset\n\nWilhelm Bousset (3 September 1865, Lübeck – 8 March 1920, Gießen) was a German theologian and New Testament scholar. He was of Huguenot ancestry and a native of Lübeck.\n\nHe began his studies at the University of Erlangen, where he met Ernst Troeltsch (1865–1923), with whom he would maintain a friendship that would last throughout his career. Later on, he studied at Leipzig, where he was student of Adolf von Harnack (1851–1930), and afterwards continued his education at the University of Göttingen. In 1890 he became a professor of New Testament exegesis at Göttingen, later relocating to the University of Giessen (1916).\n\nBousset was a prominent figure in the \"Religionsgeschichtliche Schule\" (history of religions school), a group that included scholars such as Richard August Reitzenstein (1861–1931), Albert Eichhorn (1856–1926) and Hermann Gunkel (1862–1932). His better known work involved comparative studies between the Early Christian Church and other religious beliefs, particularly Hellenistic Judaism. Bousset demonstrated in his writings that Christian thought was profoundly influenced by neighboring cultures and belief systems.\n\nBousset was a prolific writer, and among his books that were translated into English were \"Kyrios Christos: Geschichte des Christusglaubens von den Anfängen des Christentums bis Irenäus\" (Kyrios Christos; A History of the Belief in Christ from the Beginnings of Christianity to Irenaeus), and \"Der Antichrist in Der Uberlieferung Des Judentums, Des Neuen Testaments Und Der Alten Kirche\" (Antichrist Legend: A Chapter in Christian and Jewish Folklore). Other noted works by Bousset include:\n\n"}
