{"id": "23537226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23537226", "title": "African Journal of International and Comparative Law", "text": "African Journal of International and Comparative Law\n\nThe African Journal of International and Comparative Law is published twice yearly by the Edinburgh University Press in March and September. The journal publishes refereed articles in international and comparative law on a pan-African basis. Articles cover public and private international law and each issue includes a section on recent developments relevant to the continent. The majority of articles are in English with articles in French also published. After a break in publication, the journal was restarted with Edinburgh University Press in 2005, with the approval of the original publishers, the African Society of International and Comparative Law.\n\nThe journal is edited by Rachel Murray (University of Bristol) and Kofi Oteng Kufuor (University of East London).\n"}
{"id": "43300414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43300414", "title": "All Circuit Review Extension Act", "text": "All Circuit Review Extension Act\n\nThe All Circuit Review Extension Act (; ) is a bill that would extend for three years the authority for federal employees who appeal a judgment of the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) to file their appeal at any federal court, instead of only the U.S. Court of Appeals. This was a pilot program established in the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2012 to last only two years.\n\nThe bill was introduced into the United States House of Representatives during the 113th United States Congress. The bill was signed into law.\n\nThe pilot program was established in the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2012 (WPEA) to last only two years. The Government Accountability Project (GAP) calls the program \"landmark\" and says that it was \"the WPEA's most significant structural reform.\"\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\"\n\nThe All Circuit Review Extension Act would extend from two to five years after the effective date of the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2012 (i.e., December 27, 2012), the period allowed for: (1) filing a petition for judicial review of Merit Systems Protection Board decisions in whistleblower cases, and (2) any review of such a decision by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Budget Office, as ordered reported by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on March 12, 2014. This is a public domain source.\"\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that enacting H.R. 4197 would have no significant effect on the federal budget. The legislation could affect direct spending by agencies not funded through the annual appropriations (such as the Tennessee Valley Authority); therefore, pay-as-you-go procedures apply. CBO estimates, however, that any net increase in spending by those agencies would not be significant. Enacting the bill would not affect revenues.\n\nH.R. 4197 would extend for three years the authority for federal employees who appeal a judgment of the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) to file their appeal at any federal court, instead of only the U.S. Court of Appeals. Based on information from MSPB and the Office of Special Counsel, CBO expects that allowing appeals to be filed in any federal circuit would lead to a small increase in the administrative burden of the MSPB and federal agencies. We estimate, however, that the costs associated with that increase would not be significant.\n\nH.R. 4197 contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act and would impose no costs on state, local, or tribal governments.\n\nThe Al Circuit Review Extension Act was introduced on March 11, 2014 by Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D, MD-7). The bill was referred to the United States House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the United States House Committee on the Judiciary, and the United States House Judiciary Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law. On July 14, 2014, it was reported alongside House Report 113-519 part 1. The House voted on July 14, 2014 to pass the bill in a voice vote.\n\nThe organization Government Accountability Project (GAP) supported the legislation, arguing that an extension of the pilot program was needed in order to ensure that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and Congress had enough time to see the results of the program before deciding whether to make it permanent.\n\nFederal Employed Women (FEW) and the Make It Safe Coalition supported the passage of the bill. They argued that \"all circuit review is a sorely needed provision to ensure that the WPEA is enforced as Congress intended\" because \"during its 1982-2012 monopoly the Federal Circuit rewrote and gutted congressionally-passed whistleblower rights repeatedly.\" The Coalition reported that \"the Federal Circuit had a 3-226 record against whistleblowers for decisions on the merits since October 1994, making it all but impossible for a whistleblower to prevail in court.\"\n\nRep. Elijah Cummings, who introduced the bill, said that this program is important to extend because it \"allows whistleblowers to file appeals where they live rather than being limited to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals.\" He also said that the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals has \"an abysmal track record in whistleblower cases.\"\n\nRep. Darrell Issa also supported the bill, arguing that \"whistleblowers are a critical asset for congressional oversight\" and that extending the pilot program would give Congress \"more time to gauge the impact of an 'all circuit' review.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38576146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38576146", "title": "American Bankruptcy Institute", "text": "American Bankruptcy Institute\n\nThe American Bankruptcy Institute is an organization of over 13,000 bankruptcy and insolvency professionals, including attorneys, judges, law professors, accountants, investment bankers and turn-around specialists. It bills itself as the \"largest multi-disciplinary, non-partisan organization dedicated to research and education on matters related to insolvency.\"\n\nThe ABI disseminates information by organizing conferences and publishing scholarly journals, including the American Bankruptcy Institute Law Review. It also holds panels bringing together multiple viewpoints on particular issues relating to insolvency. In addition, the ABI has established a commission to study and propose reforms to Chapter 11 law governing bankruptcies.\n"}
{"id": "36026499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36026499", "title": "Asia Cup Moot", "text": "Asia Cup Moot\n\nThe Asia Cup Moot, or Asia Cup in short, is an annual international moot court competition that is open to law schools in Asia. The competition inaugurated in 1999 and is held in Tokyo, Japan. It is jointly organised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan and the International Law Students Exchange Council, and the moot problem typically contains issues pertaining to public international law, international humanitarian law, and international human rights. The top 10–12 scoring teams for the memorials qualify for the international rounds in Tokyo, but generally each country except Japan is only permitted to send one team. Each team may feature up to four oralists. As of 2017, 45 different law schools have competed in Tokyo since the moot's inception.\n\nFor some schools, the moot (as is the Red Cross International Humanitarian Law Moot in Hong Kong) is seen as a rite of passage for Asian mooters before they go on to participate in the larger international moots, such as the Jessup Moot and Vis Moot. \n\nNational University of Singapore is the most successful schools winning six championships. The Philippines and Singapore, with nine wins each, are the winningest countries. Since 2010, Singapore has dominated the moot, with NUS taking the last three championships, and Singapore Management University reaching the international finals six years in a row between 2010 and 2015—winning three—and having 12 of its oralists ranked in the top 5 for Best Oralist.\n\n"}
{"id": "47548075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47548075", "title": "Association of Judicial Unity", "text": "Association of Judicial Unity\n\nAssociation of Judicial Unity (YBD)\n[jbd̪] is the largest association of judges and public prosecutors in Turkey. YBD’s origins date back to the Platform of the Judicial Unity created in 2014 by judges and prosecutors from all political horizons, philosophical convictions and religious beliefs. Ensuring the same spirit of heterogeneity, YBD has obtained the legal status of association on March 27, 2015.\n\nFounded in 2014 by members of the judiciary concerned about the future of the judicial system in Turkey, the Platform of the Judicial Unity has evolved to become the Association of Judicial Unity on March 27, 2015. The conception bringing the platform into existence has been maintained during the creation of YBD. The members of YBD undertake to make efforts in order to protect the independence and impartiality of the judiciary and thus preserving the public trust in the judiciary by taking a stance equidistant to all kinds of political opinions, philosophical or religious beliefs and convictions.\n\nYBD’s first General Assembly meeting was held on September 12, 2015.\n\nAccording to the Charter, YBD’s objectives and principles can be summarized as follows;\nThe Rule of Law, which is one of the fundamental values of modern democracy, will only be possible with a strong judicial power. Such a strong judicial power requires ensuring the independence, impartiality and accountability of the judiciary. In this connection, independence of the judiciary, which is a prerequisite for the rule of law, serves as a guarantee for the right to a fair trial and also as a fundamental guarantee of a democratic society. The notion of independence, which finds its meaning in the Constitution and which is also mentioned in the international instruments, makes it essential that one acts in accordance with the Constitution and the laws and only and solely on his/her personal conviction and that no adherence to any other person, institution or formation is allowed. Independence from the public opinion and non-judicial government institutions must be ensured and maintained. Independence must be secured within the judiciary as well.\n\nThe notion of impartiality refers to the necessity that members of the judiciary must, in compliance with the law without any influence during the decision-making processes, adopt an equitable approach to parties. Accordingly, it is incumbent on the State to enable the execution of judicial activities without any inherent fear or distress, and judges and prosecutors have also their share of responsibility in this regard. \nAnother issue of importance as for a democratic rule of law is the accountability and transparency. Independence and impartiality could develop into an identity, which is in conformity with democracy, only through the mechanisms of accountability.\n\nThe Association of Judicial Unity (\"YBD\") has emerged as a civil initiative of the members of the judiciary with a view to exerting efforts in this regard. The understanding bringing YBD into existence is to protect the independence and impartiality of the judiciary and thus to maintain the public trust in the judiciary, without adopting any political stance and by avoiding from political disputes. \nYBD has aimed to provide all kinds of efforts for a judicial administration which would afford a working environment free from threats and oppression within the judiciary; eliminate and satisfy all of the concerns and expectations as regards the issues of assignment, transfer, authorization, promotion and inspection; and adopt an approach responsive to individual or family-related requests of members of the judiciary. \nYBD will carry out works with a view to developing an effective and well-functioning judiciary system which has internalized the human rights and which takes as basis only the public trust and public satisfaction. It will also observe the satisfaction of members of the judiciary and judicial staff. In this context, activities will be carried out for the purposes of ensuring that the judiciary system adopts new practices, that the working conditions are improved, that the judiciary comes to a point which enables it to cope with the case-load and that the communication between judicial institutions and other judicial actors is improved; and proposals will be developed in order to achieve judicial excellence.\n\nThe main character of this formation consists of a participatory approach and an understanding of taking a stance equidistant to all kinds of political opinions, philosophical or religious beliefs and convictions. The pre-eminence of the rights and the rule of law are the indispensable aims pursued by YBD. The members of YBD undertake to make efforts in order to maintain this structure, and to observe the independence and impartiality of the judiciary as well as the tenure of judges.\n\nYBD will conduct its works by taking the following instruments as basis: the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, the European Convention on Human Rights, the United Nations Basic Principles on the Independence of the Judiciary, the United Nations Principles on the Role of Prosecutors, the Council of Europe Recommendation on Independence, Efficiency and Role of Judges; the European Charter on the Statute for Judges, the United Nations Bangalore Principles of Judicial Conduct; Recommendations of the Committee of Minister of the Council of Europe and the Consultative Council of European Judges (CCJE), the Universal Charter of the Judge, the Budapest Principles adopted for prosecutors, the United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC), the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption, and other relevant international instruments and standards.\n\nThere are two categories of membership with YBD.\n\nHonorary membership may be granted by the decision of the Board of Directors to those who are not entitled to have the right to full membership, but are showing commitment, both in Turkey and abroad, to the principles and objectives of YBD and make contributions for the achievement of its objectives.\n\nPersons who are eligible for full membership in YBD and are willing to be a member of YBD shall be required to indicate names and member ID numbers of at least three members of YBD who could invite him or her to membership.\n\nAdministrative Committee\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50077734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50077734", "title": "Augusto Antonio Barbera", "text": "Augusto Antonio Barbera\n\nAugusto Antonio Barbera (born 25 June 1938) is an Italian judge and former constitutional law professor at the University of Bologna. In his political career he was member of the Chamber of Deputies between 1976 and 1994 for the Italian Communist Party and later the Democratic Party of the Left. In 1993 he served shortly as Minister without portfolio for relations with Parliament in the government of Prime Minister Carlo Azeglio Ciampi. Barbera has been Judge of the Constitutional Court of Italy since 21 December 2015.\n\nBarbera was born in Aidone on 25 June 1938. He obtained a degree in Jurisprudence with a specialization in constitutional law. Between 1967 and 1969 he worked abroad as a researcher at the universities of Karlsruhe and Heidelberg.\n\nBarbera was a lecturer of constitutional law at the University of Catania from 1969 to 1970. He then took up similar position at the University of Ferrara, where he would remain until 1977. In that latter year he started working at the Institute of Public Law of the faculty of political science of the University of Bologna. He stopped working there in 1994. He was a professor of constitutional law at the University of Bologna. He took up emeritus status in 2014.\n\nIn 2013 Barbera was named as one of 35 academics in a commission on constitutional reform under Prime Minister Enrico Letta.\n\nBarbera is a corresponding academic of the Academy of Sciences of the Institute of Bologna in the section of law, economics, and finance.\n\nBarbera took up political office in 1976, when he was elected to the Chamber of Deputies for the Italian Communist Party. He would stay member of the Chamber until 1994. When the Communist Party dissolved in 1991, he stayed member of its successor party, the Democratic Party of the Left. From 1987 to 1992 Barbera served as president of the parliamentary committee on regional questions.\n\nOn 29 April 1993 Barbera was one of three former Communist Party politicians named in the new Ciampi Cabinet; the other two were Vincenzo Visco and Luigi Berlinguer. Barbera was made Minister without portfolio for relations with Parliament. It was the first time in 46 years that former Communist Party politicians were made part of the cabinet. Several hours after being officially named in the government, a rupture broke in the coalition over the handling of charges in Parliament against former Prime Minister Bettino Craxi. The Ministers of the Democratic Party of the Left, to which Barbera belonged, resigned. His replacement, Paolo Barile, took office on 4 May.\n\nOn 16 December 2015, the Italian Parliament elected three candidates to the Constitutional Court of Italy: Franco Modugno, Giulio Prosperetti and Barbera. The election was realized after 31 previous failed attempts. Barbera was the candidate of the Democratic Party, he obtained 581 votes in favor. He was sworn in five days after his election.\n"}
{"id": "36565971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36565971", "title": "Belgrade Six", "text": "Belgrade Six\n\nThe Belgrade six is a name of the group of six Serbian intellectuals arrested in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, in 1984 and charged with counterrevolutionary activity.\n\nThe group consisted of:\n\nThe trial was held between 5 November 1984 and 4 February 1985. It had significant media coverage. One of defence attorneys was Vladimir Šeks.\n\nCases against Nikolić, Milić and Olujić were separated from the cases of other member of the group. They were sentenced to between one and two-year prison terms.\n\n"}
{"id": "58232927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58232927", "title": "Black Women's Defense League", "text": "Black Women's Defense League\n\nThe Black Women's Defense League (BWDL) is a self-defense organization based in Dallas, Texas, United States.\n\nThe BWDL was founded in 2015 by Niecee X. She was influenced by groups including the Huey P. Newton Gun Club but later split from them. \n\nThe BWDL describes itself as a Womanist organization. According to the group's Facebook page, it \"works for the immediate pursuit of an intersectional, safe, and free society\" and \"organizes to provide immediate protection and services to Black Women and those most marginalized by White Supremacy.\" The group provides self-defense and arms training to \"abused, underserved black women and marginalized genders\", and also engages in political education, charity work and youth outreach work.\n\nIn January 2017 BWDL members attended the Women's March in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn September 2017 the group was involved in relief efforts in Houston, Port Arthur and Beaumont, Texas, following Hurricane Harvey. Its activities focused on groups otherwise overlooked by relief organizations and those excluded by shelters.\n\nIn December 2017 the BWDL organised a protest against a concert by R. Kelly in Dallas due to accusations of sexual misconduct.\n\nIn May 2018 the BWDL was featured in a documentary produced by Pabst Blue Ribbon, which sought to celebrate \"the voices of today's ever-evolving American dream\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11172779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11172779", "title": "Bodleian Law Library", "text": "Bodleian Law Library\n\nThe Bodleian Law Library (BLL) is an academic library in Oxford, England. It is part of Oxford University, the Bodleian Libraries and is also the library of the Faculty of Law. It is situated in part of the Grade II*-listed St Cross Building on St Cross Road in the parish of Holywell, on the corner of Manor Road.\n\nThe library is one of the largest open-access law libraries in Europe. Opened in 1964, it now contains over 450,000 volumes on 16,000 linear metres of shelving, and is housed in purpose-built library accommodation designed by the distinguished architects Sir Leslie Martin and Colin St John Wilson.\n\nThe BLL benefits from the Bodleian's status as a library of legal deposit, by which the BLL has the right to claim a copy of any printed legal material published in the United Kingdom or Ireland. Together with its position as an official Documentation Centre for the European Union and its significant expenditure on foreign legal materials, this means that the BLL adds more than 10,000 new items to its stock each year.\n\nThe BLL serves a wide and expanding range of university and external readers. Its primary 'client' base is the University of Oxford's Faculty of Law which, with over 1,100 undergraduate and postgraduate students and 80 academic staff, is the largest law faculty in the United Kingdom. At the same time, and because of its legal deposit status, the BLL is also used extensively by legal firms, lawyers, and individual researchers from both home and abroad. \n\nThe BLL collection supports the teaching and research of Law at the University of Oxford, and shares Criminology and Socio-Legal Studies with the Social Science Library. The St Cross Building is adjacent to the Social Science Building in Manor Road, which houses the Social Sciences departments, including the Economics Department, as well as the Social Science Library.\n\nThe BLL collection has been built up over a period of four centuries, both from the legal deposit intake, and from specific purchases based on recommendations from academics and researchers alike. The core primary legal materials for the UK, the Commonwealth countries, the US, the EU, individual European countries, and international law are collected on an ongoing basis, together with key legal texts for all jurisdictions. The BLL holds full sets of previous editions of major UK legal monographs on the open shelves.\n\nIt receives over 2,000 serial titles per annum, including law reports, legislation, journals and looseleaf services from all the jurisdictions held in the collection. The BLL holds several special collections, including rare books, the Viner collection, the Bandar Collection of Islamic Law, and the Kahn-Freund collection of labour law material.\n\nReaders have access to all leading UK legal databases, together with a large number of foreign legal databases, supporting the research undertaken by members of the faculty. Network printing, scanning and photocopying are provided.\n\nThe BLL was designed to hold the law collection of the Bodleian Library on open access shelves, ensuring ready access at all times to scholars. Seating is provided for 430 readers, with over one third of seats reserved for postgraduate student use. \n\nThere is a Graduate Reading Room. This area occupies a separate wing, and provides students with ethernet access, several PCs, and wireless access for laptops.\n\nThe BLL has a total of 40 PCs for reader use. The PCs in the Freshfields IT room on the lower floor and in the Gallery computer room require readers to log in, but there are a few PCs for searching the catalogue on each floor. Wireless access for laptop computers is provided throughout most areas of the library and is accessed using the same login as the library PCs.\n\nThe Baker McKenzie room is available for student use for group discussion, as well as facilities which are offered on a shared basis.\n\nThe Law Library staff provide an extensive teaching programme to all postgraduate and undergraduate students. The Legal Research Skills Programme is a compulsory first year subject for undergraduates; all postgraduates are provided with detailed library induction, as well as a wide range of research classes offered each term. Legal information guides to specific countries and to legal subjects is available in leaflet form.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "11040382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11040382", "title": "Briscoe v. LaHue", "text": "Briscoe v. LaHue\n\nBriscoe v. LaHue, 460 U.S. 325 (1983), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that Title 42 U.S.C. § 1983 did not authorize a convicted state defendant to assert a claim for damages against a police officer for giving perjured testimony at the defendant's criminal trial.\n"}
{"id": "40108166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40108166", "title": "Bunning v Cross", "text": "Bunning v Cross\n\nBunning v Cross [1978] HCA 22, 141 CLR 54 (HCA), is an Australian evidence law case, in which the admissibility of improperly gained evidence is examined. Like the similar \"R v Ireland\" (1970) 126 CLR 321, \"Bunning v Cross\", the ruling of the High Court of Australia has been formulated as an exclusionary rule, namely the onus is on the accused to prove the misconduct and justify exclusion, and is known as the Bunning discretion (cf. Ireland discretion).\n\nMr. Bunning was charged under s. 63 (1) of the \"Road Traffic Act, 1974\" with having driven a car \"whilst under the influence of alcohol to such an extent as to be incapable of having proper control of it\". Burton SM dismissed the charge, holding that the evidence of the result of a breathalyzer test was inadmissible because the police officer's requirement that the applicant undergo the test was unlawful.\n\nThe respondent (i.e., Cross, the prosecutor) sought and obtained an order to review from the Supreme Court of Western Australia under the \"Justices Act 1902\" (WA), as amended. The relevant provisions (ss. 197, 198, 205, 206, 206A and 206F) are set out in the judgment of the Chief Justice. Jones J heard the return to the order and decided that the evidence was admissible but that, in the circumstances, the magistrate was entitled in his discretion to admit or to reject it. Jones J declined to direct that the evidence should be admitted, but expressed the view that, if he were to decide the question for himself, he would admit it. He then made an order directing the magistrate to rehear the case and to determine it \"in accordance with this judgment and according to law\". This can only mean (and s. 206F makes this clear) that the magistrate was bound to follow Jones J's directions.\n\nBurton SM reheard the case, treated the evidence of the breathalyzer test as admissible, and, in his discretion, rejected the evidence. He then dismissed the charge for the second time.\n\nThe respondent sought and obtained another order to review on the ground that the magistrate had not properly exercised his discretion. The Full Court (Lavan and Brinsden JJ, Burt CJ dissenting) held that the discretion was not properly exercised. Burt CJ held that the magistrate took into account all relevant matters. Lavan J took the view that Mr. Burton had not taken into account all relevant considerations and directed that he should reconsider the exercise of discretion. Brinsden J considered that the magistrate was bound to admit the evidence and thought the result should be a conviction. None of the justices of the Full Court was willing to exercise the discretion to admit or exclude the evidence, and none was willing that the Full Court should convict (although urged to do so by the respondent). They also refrained from directing the magistrate to convict.\n\nBarwick CJ authored a concurring opinion, and Stephen and Aickin JJ co-authored a concurring opinion. The majority ruled for the applicant, the prosecutor, and ordered the case to be remitted to the magistrate, who was directed to convict the respondent and impose upon the respondent an appropriate penalty.\n\nJacobs and Murphy JJ both authored individual dissenting opinions.\n"}
{"id": "53108564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53108564", "title": "Cartagena Declaration on Refugees", "text": "Cartagena Declaration on Refugees\n\nThe Cartagena Declaration on Refugees, or just Cartagena Declaration, is a non-binding regional, i.e. Latin-American, instrument for the protection of refugees and was adopted in 1984 by delegates from 10 Latin-American countries: Belize, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama and Venezuela. The Declaration was since incorporated in national laws and state practice of 14 countries.\n\nThe declaration is the result of the \"Colloquium on International Protection for Refugees and Displaced Persons in Central America, Mexico and Panama\", which was held in Cartagena, Colombia from 19 to 22 November 1984. The Declaration was influenced by the \"Contadora Act on Peace and Cooperation\", which itself was based on the 1951 Refugee Convention and the 1967 Protocol.\n\nThe Declaration reaffirms the importance of the right to asylum, the principle of non-refoulement and the importance of finding durable solutions.\n\nCompared to the 1951 Convention and the 1967 Protocol the Cartagena Declaration allows a broader category of persons in need of international protection to be considered as refugees. The Declaration, in Conclusion III, adds five situational events to the definition of the 1951 Convention and the 1967 Protocol. Similar additions were made in the 1969 Refugee Convention, but the Cartagena Declaration has further extended them. Refugees are those:\n\nThis definition allows a broader temporal and geographical scope for the risks refugees find themselves in and additionally covers some of the indirect effects such as poverty, economic decline, inflation, violence, disease, food insecurity, malnourishment and displacement.\n\nThe Cartagena Declaration was the beginning of an ongoing forum between Latin American countries. Since 1984 the signatories of the declaration meet again every 10 years and they have even extended its reach to include Caribbean countries. Three successor declarations were made: the 1994 San José Declaration, the 2004 Mexico Declaration and the 2014 Brazil Declaration (with 28 countries and three territories of Latin America and the Caribbean). No other continent or region has such a forum.\n"}
{"id": "2723186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2723186", "title": "Chastisement", "text": "Chastisement\n\nChastisement is the infliction of corporal punishment as defined by law.\n\nEnglish common law allowed parents and others who have \"lawful control or charge\" of a child to use \"moderate and reasonable\" chastisement or correction. In the 1860 Eastbourne manslaughter case, Alexander Cockburn as Chief Justice ruled: \"By the law of England, a parent ... may for the purpose of correcting what is evil in the child, inflict moderate and reasonable corporal punishment, always, however, with this condition, that it is moderate and reasonable.\" It was left to the courts to decide what is meant by \"moderate and reasonable\" in any particular case.\n\nThe rights of parents, guardians and teachers, in regard to the chastisement of children, were expressly recognized in English law by the Prevention of Cruelty to Children Act 1904 (§ 28). A master had a right to inflict moderate chastisement upon his apprentice for neglect or other misbehaviour, provided that he did so himself, and that the apprentice was under age (Archbold, Cr. Pl., 23rd ed., 795).\n\nIn England and Wales, section 58 of the Children Act 2004 enables parents to justify common assault or battery (crime) of their children as \"reasonable punishment\", but prevents the defence being used in relation to Assault occasioning actual bodily harm (i.e. when causing anything beyond \"transient and trifling\" such as bruising) and any more serious harm.\n\nIn law in the Republic of Ireland, the rule of law allowing \"physical chastisement\" by teachers was abolished in 1997, and the common-law defence of \"reasonable chastisement\" by parents and guardians was abolished in 2015.\n\nWilliam Blackstone wrote in the 18th century in the Commentaries on the Laws of England:\nIn the UK the traditional right of a husband to inflict moderate corporal punishment on his wife in order to keep her \"within the bounds of duty\" was similarly removed in 1891.\n\nIn the 1870s, courts in the United States overruled the common-law principle that a husband had the right to \"physically chastise an errant wife\".\n\n"}
{"id": "796376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=796376", "title": "Constitution of the Year VIII", "text": "Constitution of the Year VIII\n\nThe Constitution of the Year VIII ( or ) was a national constitution of France, adopted on December 24, 1799 (during the Year VIII of the French Revolutionary Calendar), which established the form of government known as the Consulate. The coup of 18 Brumaire (November 9, 1799) had effectively given all power to Napoleon Bonaparte, and in the eyes of some, ended the French Revolution.\n\nAfter the coup, Napoleon and his allies legitimized his position by crafting the \"short and obscure Constitution of the Year VIII\" (as Malcolm Crook has called it). \nThe constitution tailor-made the position of First Consul to give Napoleon most of the powers of a dictator. It was the first constitution since the 1789 Revolution without a Declaration of Rights.\n\nThe document vested executive power in three Consuls, but all actual power was held by the First Consul, Bonaparte. This differed from Robespierre's republic of 1792 to 1795 (which was more radical), and from the oligarchic liberal republic of the Directory (1795-1799), but resembled the autocratic Roman Republic of Caesar Augustus, a conservative republic-in-name, which reminded the French of stability, order, and peace. To emphasize this, the authors of the constitutional document used classical Roman terms, such as \"Consul\", \"Senator\" and \"Tribune\".\n\nThe Constitution of Year VIII established a legislature of three houses, which was composed of a Conservative Senate of 80 men over the age of 40, a Tribunate of 100 men and a Legislative Body (Corps législatif) of 300 men.\n\nThe Constitution also used the term \"notables\". The word \"notables\" had been in common usage under the monarchy; every Frenchman understood it, and it was comforting. It referred to prominent, \"distinguished\" men — landholders, merchants, scholars, professionals, clergymen and officials. The people in each district chose a slate of \"notables\" by popular vote. The First Consul, the Tribunate, and the \"Corps Législatif\" each nominated one Senatorial candidate to the rest of the Senate, which chose one candidate from among the three. Once all of its members were picked, it would then appoint the Tribunate, the \"Corps Législatif\", the judges of cassation, and the commissioners of accounts from the slate of notables.\n\nNapoleon held a plebiscite on the Constitution on 7 February 1800. The vote was not binding, but it allowed Napoleon to maintain a veneer of democracy. Lucien Bonaparte announced results of 3,011,007 in favor and 1,562 against the new dispensation. The true result was probably around 1.55 million for it, with several thousand against it.\n\nThis Constitution was amended, firstly, by the Constitution of the Year X, which made Napoleon First Consul for Life. A more extensive alteration, the Constitution of the Year XII, established the Bonaparte dynasty with Napoleon as a hereditary Emperor. The first, brief Bourbon Restoration of 1814 abolished the Napoleonic constitutional system, but the Emperor revived it and at once virtually replaced it with the so-called \"Additional Act\" of April 1815, promulgated on his return to power. The return of Louis XVIII in July 1815 (following the Hundred Days) saw the definitive abolition of Napoleon's constitutional arrangements. The Napoleonic constitutions were completely replaced by the Bourbon Charter of 1814.\n\nConnelly, Owen (2000). \"The French Revolution and Napoleonic Era\". 3rd Edition. Fort Worth, TX: Harcourt. pp. 201–203.\n\n"}
{"id": "25782973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25782973", "title": "Deferred sentence", "text": "Deferred sentence\n\nA deferred sentence is a sentence that is suspended until after a defendant has completed a period of probation. If the defendant fulfills the stipulations surrounding probation, a judge may then throw out the sentence and guilty plea, clearing the incident from their record. If the defendant violates probation, he or she must serve the full sentence immediately.\n\nIn the United States, a defendant must plead guilty to at least one of the crimes he or she is accused of in order to receive a deferred sentence. The promise of a deferred sentence is often traded in exchange for a guilty plea in plea bargains.\n\nDeferred sentences are often given to first time offenders, or to those who have committed relatively minor crimes, although ultimately, the choice to defer a sentence is left to a judge's discretion.\n\nIn the state of New York, a similar process is known as adjournment in contemplation of dismissal (ACOD). What typically happens in such a case is that the potential sentence is deferred for six months, and if the defendant stays out of trouble, the charge is dropped entirely with no public record of the offense.\n\nA deferred sentence is not exactly the same as an ACOD. One of the primary differences is that receiving an ACOD doesn't require an admission of guilt or plea of guilty unlike a deferred sentence which requires such. Upon completion of the ACOD, the charges are automatically sealed, fingerprints & mugshots are destroyed, and the arrest is annulled. There is no conviction and all rights you had prior to arrest are restored. In order to enter the deferred sentence program, a plea of guilt must be made. Even though successful completion of a deferred sentence results in a dismissal of charges and guilty plea withdrawal, most states still consider it to be a conviction since a plea of guilt was entered and you were considered \"convicted\" for the duration of the program. Furthermore, completion of a deferred sentence program usually requires a request to the court to have the underlying charges and arrest sealed.\n\n"}
{"id": "56459691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56459691", "title": "Election Commission of Sri Lanka", "text": "Election Commission of Sri Lanka\n\nThe Election Commission of Sri Lanka is the constitutional authority responsible for administering and overseeing all elections in Sri Lanka, including the Presidential, Parliamentary, Provincial and Local Authority elections. Sri Lanka has had universal adult suffrage since 1931, becoming the first Crown colony to enfranchise all adult citizens, 3 years after the United Kingdom itself; the country is the oldest democracy in Asia.\n\nThe recommendations of the Soulbury Commission of 1944 led to the country's 1948 'Soulbury Constitution', granting it independence with Dominion status within the British Empire through the Ceylon Independence Act of 1947. The work of the Commission began in 1944, with several pieces of key legislation being enacted in the interim as a result of its work- of these, the Ceylon (Constitution) Order in Council of 1946 would lead to the 1948 constitution, while the Ceylon (Parliamentary Elections) Order in Council and the Local Authorities Ordinance enacted in the same year created two government departments that would eventually go on to form the Elections Commission.\n\nSection 88A of the Ceylon (Parliamentary Elections) Order in Council of 1946 established the Department of Parliamentary elections headed by a Commissioner and assisted by Assistant and Deputy Commissioners, with the responsibility of registering electors and the conduct of Parliamentary Elections. At the same time, the Local Authorities Ordinance, No. 53 of 1946 established the Department of Local Authorities Elections under a separate Commissioner and staff to oversee and administer all non-Parliamentary elections on the island. During its existence, the former oversaw two Parliamentary elections, in 1947 and 1952. These two departments functioned independently of each other until 1 October 1955, when they were merged to form the Department of Elections; as was the case with its predecessors, the department functioned as an independent, non-ministerial institution answerable only to Parliament and the Judiciary.\n\n"}
{"id": "23558732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23558732", "title": "Employment Act 1980", "text": "Employment Act 1980\n\nThe Employment Act 1980 (c 42) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, passed under the first term of Margaret Thatcher's premiership and mainly relating to trade unions.\n\nIt restricted the definition of lawful picketing 'strictly to those who were themselves party to the dispute and who were picketing at the premises of their own employer'.\n\nIt also introduced ballots on the existence of closed shops, and at least 80% of the workers in a particular industry need to support them for their maintenance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51664929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51664929", "title": "European Union vs. Google", "text": "European Union vs. Google\n\nSince 2010, the European Union has launched three separate antitrust investigations into Google for violating the EU's competition laws due to its dominant position in the market. These cases have resulted in formal charges against Google related to Google Shopping, Google AdSense and the Android operating system. To date, Google has been found guilty of antitrust behavior in the cases related to Google Shopping and Android, and have been fined over .\n\nOn 10 November 2010, the European Commission opened a formal investigation into Google's search algorithm, following a number of complaints issued by smaller web companies that Google was downgrading their placement in results returned in Google's search results, and that Google was preferentially favoring their own products over competitors. The EC's investigation also considered if there were issues with Google's terms of use for Google AdSense that prevented those using AdSense to not use advertising from Google's competitors.\n\nOn 15 April 2015, five years into the investigation, the EC issued its first Statement of Objections towards Google related towards its preferential treatment of its Google Shopping product (including Google Product Search) in search results.\n\nThe specific complaints issued by the EC included:\n\nOn 7 June 2017, Google was found guilty and was charged (about ), the largest such antitrust fine issued by the EC.Google has denied the European Union's accusations against them and made a statement claiming “its services had helped the region's digital economy grow”. The fine represented just over 2.5% of Google's 2016 revenue.\n\nThose who are in competition with Google are pushing for their company to be individually monitored, for fear of losing more business to the dominant search engine. This would include investigating and overviewing Google's most prized search page algorithm, PageRank. The EU's Competition Commission decided to monitor their decision and Google's compliance with it, due to its obligation to report to the EUCC on a regular basis (every four months). Although the issue seems like it is at a close, the European Commission believes it will continue for some time.\n\nIn order to comply, Google is effectively separating its comparison shopping service into its own company after the fine. The Google Shopping service still will be a part of Google, but will run completely separately with its own revenues and profits. This move will allow Google to avoid further fines, according to Bloomberg, as it complies with the European Union's order of allowing even treatment to businesses, no matter if they compete with Google or not.\n\nHowever, even though Google is complying in part, the company is still appealing the decision. Google responded in its appeal papers to the EU Antitrust Fine by stating that the EU chair misstated facts and didn’t show enough evidence to prove that their site hurt rivals. Google wants the fine either overturned or reduced. The appeal was based on six arguments, with two of them being that the court didn’t prove that Google favored its own shopping service by placing paid ads on top the search results. Two of them stated that the courts misstated facts and evidence, and the other two argued that a fine wasn’t warranted as a possible penalty.\n\nWhile investigating the case related to Google Shopping, the EC found additional evidence related to potential antitrust issues related to Google AdSense, and issued a Statement of Complaints on 14 July 2016. These complaints were centered on how Google licensed AdSense to their direct partners:\n\nThis case, as of October 2018, still remains under investigation by the EC.\n\nThe EC's actions to investigate Google's approach to the Android operating system was predicated on two complaints it had received. The first complain came from FairSearch. FairSearch was established in 2010 as a coalition of travel-related web companies including Expedia and TripAdvisor to try to fight against Google's proposed acquisition of ITA, which had developed airfare search software. The group shifted towards becoming more of a Google watchdog group, looking at all instances of Google's activities which they considered were potentially anti-competition. Companies like Microsoft, Nokia, and Oracle joined the group to support this broader effort. Prior to their attention to the Android system, FairSearch issued complaints to the EC over how Google's search engines would preferentially weight results from Google's own services or its partners over others, as part of antitrust investigations conducted by the EU since 2010. In April 2013, the European branch of FairSearch filed a formal complaint to the EU, who were still investigating Google from previous complaints, citing that Google's practices with Android violated various EU's antitrust laws. The complaint identified that Google required any original equipment manufacturer (OEM) wanting to install Google's suite of Android apps, including access to the Google Play Store, had to license the entire suite and feature them predominately on the mobile device. \n\nA second anti-trust complaint against Google was filed by Aptoide in June 2014, an alternative marketplace for Android apps. Aptoide asserted that Google's approach to Google made it difficult for alternatives to the Google Play store to be installed, and that some of the components that were once part of Google's Android Open Source Project were moved into the Google Mobile Services suite, including Gmail, Google Maps, and the Play Store.\n\nOn 15 April 2015, the European Commission started an official investigation against Google following on the complaints filed by FairSearch and Apotoide and its own internal evaluation of these complaints over about a year. The EC stated that the company may have taken unlawful actions to maintain Google's dominant position in the mobile market by how it licensed its suite of Android applications. The new investigation was announced alongside the EC's findings in its antitrust investigation into Google's search engine practices, but otherwise treated as a separate action against Google.\n\nThe Commission identified three points of concern in the first Statement of Objections:\n\n\nGoogle countered to this investigation that their practices with Android were no different with how Apple, Inc. or Microsoft bundles their own proprietary apps on their respective iOS and Windows Phone, and that OEMs were still able to distribute Android-based phones without the Google suite of apps.\n\nDuring the investigation, Google formed Alphabet Inc., a holding company for Google's various subsidiaries, with Google becoming one of Alphabet's subsidiaries. \n\nA year after, on 20 April 2016, the European Commission announced the issue of the second Statement of Objections, now addressing both Google and Alphabet within its charges. The new set of complaints, amending those of the first Statement of Objections, asserted Google violated EU's antitrust laws by:\n\nThe potential fines for the case, if Google were to be found violating antitrust laws, has a maximum amount of 10% of the company's annual revenue, about at the time of the issuing of the Second Statement of Objection.\n\nOn 19 July 2018, EU has fined Google (about ). Google responded it would appeal, according to company spokesperson Al Verney \"Android has created more choice for everyone, not less\". To date, this fine is the biggest ever imposed by European Union on a company for anti-competitive behaviour. European Union Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager, who was part of the decision against Google, stated that only after the EU found against Google in the search anti-trust case in 2017 did Google attempt to settle on the issues of the Android anti-trust issues, which was far too late after the EU filed the initial charges against Google.\n\n"}
{"id": "4129498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4129498", "title": "Guarantee (filmmaking)", "text": "Guarantee (filmmaking)\n\nIn filmmaking, a guarantee, or informally a \"pay-or-play\" contract, is a term in a contract of an actor, director, or other participant that guarantees remuneration if the participant is released from the contract without being responsible.\n\nStudios are reluctant to agree to guarantees but accept them as part of the deal for signing major talent. They also have the advantage of enabling a studio to remove a participant under such a contract, with few legal complications.\n"}
{"id": "34634219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34634219", "title": "History of citizenship", "text": "History of citizenship\n\nHistory of citizenship describes the changing relation between an individual and the state, commonly known as citizenship. Citizenship is generally identified not as an aspect of Eastern civilization but of Western civilization. There is a general view that citizenship in ancient times was a simpler relation than modern forms of citizenship, although this view has been challenged.\n\nWhile there is disagreement about when the relation of citizenship began, many thinkers point to the early city-states of ancient Greece, possibly as a reaction to the fear of slavery, although others see it as primarily a modern phenomenon dating back only a few hundred years. In Roman times, citizenship began to take on more of the character of a relationship based on law, with less political participation than in ancient Greece but a widening sphere of who was considered to be a citizen. In the Middle Ages in Europe, citizenship was primarily identified with commercial and secular life in the growing cities, and it came to be seen as membership in emerging nation-states. In modern democracies, citizenship has contrasting senses, including a \"liberal-individualist\" view emphasizing needs and entitlements and legal protections for essentially passive political beings, and a \"civic-republican\" view emphasizing political participation and seeing citizenship as an active relation with specific privileges and obligations.\n\nWhile citizenship has varied considerably throughout history, there are some common elements of citizenship over time. Citizenship bonds extend beyond basic kinship ties to unite people of different genetic backgrounds, that is, citizenship is more than a clan or extended kinship network. It generally describes the relation between a person and an overall political entity such as a city-state or nation and signifies membership in that body. It is often based on, or a function of, some form of military service or expectation of future military service. It is generally characterized by some form of political participation, although the extent of such participation can vary considerably from minimal duties such as voting to active service in government. And citizenship, throughout history, has often been seen as an ideal state, closely allied with freedom, an important status with legal aspects including rights, and it has sometimes been seen as a \"bundle of rights\" or a \"right to have rights\". Last, citizenship almost always has had an element of exclusion, in the sense that \"citizenship\" derives meaning, in part, by excluding non-citizens from basic rights and privileges.\n\nWhile a general definition of citizenship is membership in a political society or group, citizenship as a concept is difficult to define. Thinkers as far back as Aristotle realized that there was no agreed-upon definition of citizenship. And modern thinkers, as well, agree that the history of citizenship is complex with no single definition predominating. It is hard to isolate what citizenship means without reference to other terms such as nationalism, civil society, and democracy. According to one view, citizenship as a subject of study is undergoing transformation, with increased interest while the meaning of the term continues to shift. There is agreement citizenship is culture-specific: it is a function of each political culture. Further, how citizenship is seen and understood depends on the viewpoint of the person making the determination, such that a person from an upper class background will have a different notion of citizenship than a person from the lower class. The relation of citizenship has not been a fixed or static relation, but constantly changes within each society, and that according to one view, citizenship might \"really have worked\" only at select periods during certain times, such as when the Athenian politician Solon made reforms in the early Athenian state. The history of citizenship has sometimes been presented as a stark contrast between ancient citizenship and post-medieval times. One view is that citizenship should be studied as a long and direct progression throughout Western civilization, beginning from Ancient Greece or perhaps earlier, extending to the present; for example, thinker Feliks Gross examined citizenship as the \"history of the continuation of a single institution.\" Other views question whether citizenship can be examined as a linear process, growing over time, usually for the better, and see the linear progression approach as an oversimplification possibly leading to incorrect conclusions. According to this view, citizenship should not be considered as a \"progressive realisation of the core meanings that are definitionally built into citizenship.\" Another caveat, offered by some thinkers, is to avoid judging citizenship from one era in terms of the standards of another era; according to this view, citizenship should be understood by examining it within the context of a city-state or nation, and trying to understand it as people from these societies understood it. The rise of citizenship has been studied as an aspect of the development of law.\n\nOne view is that the beginning of citizenship dates back to the ancient Israelites. These people developed an understanding of themselves as a distinct and unique people—different from the Egyptians or Babylonians. They had a written history, common language and one-deity-only religion sometimes described as ethical monotheism. While most peoples developed a loose identity tied to a specific geographic location, the Jewish people kept their common identity despite being physically moved to different lands, such as when they were held captive as slaves in ancient Egypt or Babylon. The Jewish Covenant has been described as a binding agreement not just with a few people or tribal leaders, but between the whole nation of Israel, including men, women and children, with the Jewish deity Yahweh. Jews, similar to other tribal groups, did not see themselves as citizens per se but they formed a strong attachment to their own group, such that people of different ethnicities were considered as part of an \"outgroup\". This is in contrast to the modern understanding of citizenship as a way to accept people of different races and ethnicities under the umbrella of being citizens of a nation.\n\nThere is more widespread agreement that the first real instances of citizenship began in ancient Greece. And while there were precursors of the relation in societies before then, it emerged in readily discernible form in the Greek city-states which began to dot the shores of the Aegean Sea, the Black Sea, the Adriatic Sea, and elsewhere around the Mediterranean perhaps around the 8th century BCE. The modern day distinction sometimes termed \"consent versus descent\" distinction—that is, citizenship by choice versus birthright citizenship, has been traced back to ancient Greece. And thinkers such as J.G.A. Pocock have suggested that the modern-day ideal of citizenship was first articulated by the ancient Athenians and Romans, although he suggested that the \"transmission\" of the sense of citizenship over two millennia was essentially a myth enshrouding western civilization. One writer suggests that despite the long history of China, there never was a political entity within China similar to the Greek polis.\n\nTo the ancients, citizenship was a bond between a person and the city-state. Before Greek times, a person was generally connected to a tribe or kin-group such as an extended family, but citizenship added a layer to these ties—a non-kinship bond between the person and the state. Historian Geoffrey Hosking in his 2005 \"Modern Scholar\" lecture course suggested that citizenship in ancient Greece arose from an appreciation for the importance of freedom. Hosking explained:\n\nThe Greek sense of the polis, in which citizenship and the rule of law prevailed, was an important strategic advantage for the Greeks during their wars with Persia.\n\nGreeks could see the benefits of having slaves, since their labor permitted slaveowners to have substantial free time, enabling participation in public life. While Greeks were spread out in many separate city-states, they had many things in common in addition to shared ideas about citizenship: the Mediterranean trading world, kinship ties, the common Greek language, a shared hostility to the so-called non-Greek-speaking or barbarian peoples, belief in the prescience of the oracle at Delphi, and later on the early Olympic Games which involved generally peaceful athletic competitions between city-states. City-states often feuded with each other; one view was that regular wars were necessary to perpetuate citizenship, since the seized goods and slaves helped make the city-state rich, and that a long peaceful period meant ruin for citizenship.\n\nAn important aspect of polis citizenship was exclusivity. \"Polis\" meant both the political assembly as well as the entire society. Inequality of status was widely accepted. Citizens had a higher status than non-citizens, such as women, slaves or barbarians. For example, women were believed to be irrational and incapable of political participation, although a few writers, most notably Plato, disagreed. Methods used to determine whether someone could be a citizen or not could be based on wealth, identified by the amount of taxes one paid, or political participation, or heritage if both parents were citizens of the polis. The first form of citizenship was based on the way people lived in the ancient Greek times, in small-scale organic communities of the polis. Citizenship was not seen as a separate activity from the private life of the individual person, in the sense that there was not a distinction between public and private life. The obligations of citizenship were deeply connected into one's everyday life in the polis.\nThe Greek sense of citizenship may have arisen from military necessity, since a key military formation demanded cohesion and commitment by each particular soldier. The phalanx formation had hoplite soldiers ranked shoulder-to-shoulder in a \"compact mass\" with each soldier's shield guarding the soldier to his left. If a single fighter failed to keep his position, then the entire formation could fall apart. Individual soldiers were generally protected provided that the entire mass stayed together. This technique called for large numbers of soldiers, sometimes involving most of the adult male population of a city-state, who supplied weapons at their own expense. The idea of citizenship, then, was that if each man had a say in whether the entire city-state should fight an adversary, and if each man was bound to the will of the group, then battlefield loyalty was much more likely. Political participation was thus linked with military effectiveness. In addition, the Greek city-states were the first instances in which judicial functions were separated from legislative functions in the law courts. Selected citizens served as jurors, and they were often paid a modest sum for their service. Greeks often despised tyrannical governments. In a tyrannical arrangement, there was no possibility of citizenship since political life was totally engineered to benefit the ruler.\n\nSeveral thinkers suggest that ancient Sparta, not Athens, was the originator of the concept of citizenship. Spartan citizenship was based on the principle of equality among a ruling military elite called Spartiates. They were \"full Spartan citizens\"—men who graduated from a rigorous regimen of military training and at age 30 received a land allotment called a kleros, although they had to keep paying dues to pay for food and drink as was required to maintain citizenship. In the Spartan approach to phalanx warfare, virtues such as courage and loyalty were particularly emphasized relative to other Greek city-states. Each Spartan citizen owned at least a minimum portion of the public land which was sufficient to provide food for a family, although the size of these plots varied. The Spartan citizens relied on the labor of captured slaves called helots to do the everyday drudgework of farming and maintenance, while the Spartan men underwent a rigorous military regimen, and in a sense it was the labor of the helots which permitted Spartans to engage in extensive military training and citizenship. Citizenship was viewed as incompatible with manual labor. Citizens ate meals together in a \"communal mess\". They were \"frugally fed, ferociously disciplined, and kept in constant training through martial games and communal exercises,\" according to Hosking. As young men, they served in the military. It was seen as virtuous to participate in government when men grew older. Participation was required; failure to appear could entail a loss of citizenship. But the philosopher Aristotle viewed the Spartan model of citizenship as \"artificial and strained\", according to one account. While Spartans were expected to learn music and poetry, serious study was discouraged. Historian Ian Worthington described a \"Spartan mirage\" in the sense that the mystique about military invincibility tended to obscure weaknesses within the Spartan system, particularly their dependence on helots. In contrast with Athenian women, Spartan women could own property, and owned at one point up to 40% of the land according to Aristotle, and they had greater independence and rights, although their main task was not to rule the homes or participate in governance but rather to produce strong and healthy babies.\n\nIn a book entitled \"Constitution of the Athenians\", written in 350 BCE, the ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle suggested that ancient Greeks thought that being a citizen was a natural state, according to J. G. A. Pocock. It was an elitist notion, according to Peter Riesenberg, in which small scale communities had generally similar ideas of how people should behave in society and what constituted appropriate conduct. Geoffrey Hosking described a possible Athenian logic leading to participatory democracy:\n\nAs a consequence, the original Athenian aristocratic constitution gradually became more inappropriate, and gave way to a more inclusive arrangement. In the early 6th century BCE, the reformer Solon replaced the Draconian constitution with the Solonian Constitution. Solon canceled all existing land debts, and enabled free Athenian males to participate in the assembly or ecclesia. In addition, he encouraged foreign craftsmen, particularly skilled in pottery, to move to Athens and offered citizenship by naturalization as an incentive.\n\nSolon expected that aristocratic Athenians would continue running affairs but nevertheless citizens had a \"political voice in the Assembly.\"\nSubsequent reformers moved Athens even more towards direct democracy. The Greek reformer Cleisthenes in 508 BCE re-engineered Athenian society from organizations based on family-style groupings, or phratries, to larger mixed structures which combined people from different types of geographic areas—coastal areas and cities, hinterlands, and plains—into the same group. Cleisthenes abolished the tribes by \"redistributing their identity so radically\" so they ceased to exist. The result was that farmers, sailors and sheepherders came together in the same political unit, in effect lessening kinship ties as a basis for citizenship. In this sense, Athenian citizenship extended beyond basic bonds such as ties of family, descent, religion, race, or tribal membership, and reached towards the idea of a civic multiethnic state built on democratic principles.\n\nAccording to Feliks Gross, such an arrangement can succeed if people from different backgrounds can form constructive associations. The Athenian practice of ostracism, in which citizens could vote anonymously for a fellow citizen to be expelled from Athens for up to ten years, was seen as a way to pre-emptively remove a possible threat to the state, without having to go through legal proceedings. It was intended to promote internal harmony.\n\nAthenian citizenship was based on obligations of citizens towards the community rather than rights given to its members. This was not a problem because people had a strong affinity with the polis; their personal destiny and the destiny of the entire community were strongly linked. Also, citizens of the polis saw obligations to the community as an opportunity to be virtuous. It was a source of honour and respect. According to one view, the citizenry was \"its own master\". The people were sovereign; there was no sovereignty outside of the people themselves. In Athens, citizens were both ruler and ruled. Further, important political and judicial offices were rotated to widen participation and prevent corruption, and all citizens had the right to speak and vote in the political assembly. Pocock explained:\n\nThe Athenian conception was that \"laws that should govern everybody,\" in the sense of equality under the law or the Greek term \"isonomia\". Citizens had certain rights and duties: the rights included the chance to speak and vote in the common assembly, to stand for public office, to serve as jurors, to be protected by the law, to own land, and to participate in public worship; duties included an obligation to obey the law, and to serve in the armed forces which could be \"costly\" in terms of buying or making expensive war equipment or in risking one's own life, according to Hosking.\n\nHosking noticed that citizenship was \"relatively narrowly distributed\" and excluded all women, all minors, all slaves, all immigrants, and most colonials, that is, citizens who left their city to start another usually lost their rights from their city-state of origin. Many historians felt this exclusiveness was a weakness in Athenian society, according to Hosking, but he noted that there were perhaps 50,000 Athenian citizens overall, and that at most, a tenth of these ever took part in an actual assembly at any one time. Hosking argued that if citizenship had been spread more widely, it would have hurt solidarity. Pocock expresses a similar sentiment and noted that citizenship requires a certain distance from the day-to-day drudgery of daily living. Greek males solved this problem to some extent with the subjugation of women as well as the institution of slavery which freed their schedules so they could participate in the assembly. Pocock asked: for citizenship to happen, was it necessary to prevent free people from becoming \"too much involved in the world of things\"? Or, could citizenship be extended to working class persons, and if so, what does this mean for the nature of citizenship itself?\n\nThe philosopher Plato envisioned a warrior class similar to the Spartan conception in that these persons did not engage in farming, business, or handicrafts, but their main duty was to prepare for war: to train, to exercise, to train, to exercise, constantly. Like the Spartan practice, Plato's idealized community was one of citizens who kept common meals to build common bonds. Citizenship status, in Plato's ideal view, was inherited. There were four separate classes. There were penalties for failing to vote. A key part of citizenship was obeying the law and being \"deferent to the social and political system\" and having internal self-control.\n\nWriting a generation after Plato, and in contrast with his teacher, Aristotle did not like Sparta's commune-oriented approach. He felt Sparta's land allocation system as well as the communal meals led to a world in which rich and poor were polarized. He recognized differences in citizenship patterns based on age: the young were \"underdeveloped\" citizens, while the elderly were \"superannuated\" citizens. And he noted that it was hard to classify the citizenship status of some persons, such as resident aliens who still had access to courts, or citizens who had lost their citizenship franchise.\n\nStill, Aristotle's conception of citizenship was that it was a legally guaranteed role in creating and running government. It reflected the division of labor which he believed was a good thing; citizenship, in his view, was a commanding role in society with citizens ruling over non-citizens. At the same time, there could not be a permanent barrier between the rulers and the ruled, according to Aristotle's conception, and if there was such a barrier, citizenship could not exist. Aristotle's sense of citizenship depended on a \"rigorous separation of public from private, of polis from oikos, of persons and actions from things\" which allowed people to interact politically with equals. To be truly human, one had to be an active citizen to the community:\n\nIn Aristotle's view, \"man is a political animal\". Isolated men were not truly free, in his view. A beast was animal-like without self-control over passions and unable to coordinate with other beasts, and therefore could not be a citizen. And a god was so powerful and immortal that he or she did not need help from others. In Aristotle's conception, citizenship was possible generally in a small city-state since it required direct participation in public affairs with people knowing \"one another's characters\". What mattered, according to Pocock's interpretation of Aristotle, was that citizens had the freedom to take part in political discussions if they chose to do so. And citizenship was not merely a means to being free, but was freedom itself, a valued escape from the home-world of the oikos to the political world of the polis. It meant active sharing in civic life, meaning that all men rule, and are ruled, alternatively. And citizens were those who shared in deliberative and judicial office, and in that sense, attained the status of citizenship. What citizens do should benefit not just a segment of society, but be in the interest of everybody. Unlike Plato, Aristotle believed that women were incapable of citizenship since it did not suit their natures. In Aristotle's conception, humans are destined \"by nature\" to live in a political association and take short turns at ruling, inclusively, participating in making legislative, judicial and executive decisions. But Aristotle's sense of \"inclusiveness\" was limited to adult Greek males born in the polity: women, children, slaves, and foreigners (that is, resident aliens), were generally excluded from political participation.\n\nRoman citizenship was similar to the Greek model but differed in substantive ways. Geoffrey Hosking argued that Greek ideas of citizenship in the city-state, such as the principles of equality under the law, civic participation in government, and notions that \"no one citizen should have too much power for too long\", were carried forth into the Roman world. But unlike the Greek city-states which enslaved captured peoples following a war, Rome offered relatively generous terms to its captives, including chances for captives to have a \"second category of Roman citizenship\". Conquered peoples could not vote in the Roman assembly but had full protections of the law, and could make economic contracts and could marry Roman citizens. They blended together with Romans in a culture sometimes described as Romanitas—ceremonies, public baths, games, and a common culture helped unite diverse groups within the empire.\n\nOne view was that the Greek sense of citizenship was an \"emancipation from the world of things\" in which citizens essentially acted upon other citizens; material things were left back in the private domestic world of the oikos. But the Roman sensibility took into account to a greater extent that citizens could act upon material things as well as other citizens, in the sense of buying or selling property, possessions, titles, goods. Accordingly, citizens often encountered other citizens on the basis of commerce which often required regulation. It introduced a new level of complexity regarding the concept of citizenship. Pocock explained:\n\nA further departure from the Greek model was that the Roman government pitted the upper-class patrician interests against the lower-order working groups known as the plebeian class in a dynamic arrangement, sometimes described as a \"tense tug-of-war\" between the dignity of the great man and the liberty of the small man. Through worker discontent, the plebs threatened to set up a rival city to Rome, and through negotiation around 494 BCE, won the right to have their interests represented in government by officers known as tribunes. The Roman Republic, according to Hosking, tried to find a balance between the upper and lower classes. And writers such as Burchell have argued that citizenship meant different things depending on what social class one belonged to: for upper-class men, citizenship was an active chance to influence public life; for lower-class men, it was about a respect for \"private rights\" or ius privatum.\n\nPocock explained that a citizen came to be understood as a person \"free to act by law, free to ask and expect the law's protection, a citizen of such and such a legal community, of such and such a legal standing in that community.\" An example was Saint Paul demanding fair treatment after his arrest by claiming to be a Roman citizen. Many thinkers including Pocock suggested that the Roman conception of citizenship had a greater emphasis than the Greek one of it being a legal relationship with the state, described as the \"legal and political shield of a free person\". And citizenship was believed to have had a \"cosmopolitan character\". Citizenship meant having rights to have possessions, immunities, expectations, which were \"available in many kinds and degrees, available or unavailable to many kinds of person for many kinds of reason.\" Citizens could \"sue and be sued in certain courts\". And the law, itself, was a kind of bond uniting people, in the sense of it being the results of past decisions by the assembly, such that citizenship came to mean \"membership in a community of shared or common law\". According to Pocock, the Roman emphasis on law changed the nature of citizenship: it was more impersonal, universal, multiform, having different degrees and applications. It included many different types of citizenship: sometimes municipal citizenship, sometimes empire-wide citizenship.\nLaw continued to advance as a subject under the Romans. The Romans developed law into a kind of science known as jurisprudence. Law helped protect citizens:\n\nSpecialists in law found ways to adapt the fixed laws, and to have the common law or jus gentium, work in harmony with natural law or ius naturale, which are rules common to all things. Property was protected by law, and served as a protection of individuals against the power of the state. In addition, unlike the Greek model where laws were mostly made in the assembly, Roman law was often determined in other places than official government bodies. Rules could originate through court rulings, by looking to past court rulings, by sovereign decrees, and the effect was that the assembly's power became increasingly marginalized.\n\nIn the Roman Empire, polis citizenship expanded from small scale communities to the entire empire. In the early years of the Roman Republic, citizenship was a prized relationship which was not widely extended. Romans realised that granting citizenship to people from all over the empire legitimized Roman rule over conquered areas. As the centuries went by, citizenship was no longer a status of political agency, but it had been reduced to a judicial safeguard and the expression of rule and law. The Roman conception of citizenship was relatively more complex and nuanced than the earlier Athenian conception, and it usually did not involve political participation. There was a \"multiplicity of roles\" for citizens to play, and this sometimes led to \"contradictory obligations\". Roman citizenship was not a single black-and-white category of \"citizen\" versus \"non-citizen\", but rather there were more gradations and relationships possible. Women were respected to a greater extent with a secure status as what Hosking terms \"subsidiary citizens\".\n\nBut the citizenship rules generally had the effect of building loyalty throughout the empire among highly diverse populations. The Roman statesman Cicero, while encouraging political participation, saw that too much civic activism could have consequences that were possibly dangerous and disruptive. David Burchell argued that in Cicero's time, there were too many citizens pushing to \"enhance their dignitas\", and the result of a \"political stage\" with too many actors all wanting to play a leading role, was discord. The problem of extreme inequality of landed wealth led to a decline in the citizen-soldier arrangement, and was one of many causes leading to the dissolution of the Republic and rule by dictators. The Roman Empire gradually expanded the inclusiveness of persons considered as \"citizens\", while the economic power of persons declined, and fewer men wanted to serve in the military. The granting of citizenship to wide swaths of non-Roman groups diluted its meaning, according to one account.\n\nWhen the Western Roman empire fell in 476 AD, the western part run by Rome was sacked, while the eastern empire headquartered at Constantinople endured. Some thinkers suggest that as a result of historical circumstances, western Europe evolved with two competing sources of authority—religious and secular—and that the ensuing separation of church and state was a \"major step\" in bringing forth the modern sense of citizenship. In the eastern half which survived, religious and secular authority were merged in the one emperor. The eastern Roman emperor Justinian, who ruled the eastern empire from 527 to 565, thought that citizenship meant people living with honor, not causing harm, and to \"give each their due\" in relation with fellow citizens.\n\nIn the feudal system, there were relationships characterized as reciprocal, with bonds between lords and vassals going both ways: vassals promised loyalty and subsistence, while lords promised protection. The basis of feudal arrangement was control over land. The loyalty of a person was not to a law, or to a constitution, or to an abstract concept such as a nation, but to a person, namely, the next higher-level up, such as a knight, lord, or king. One view is that feudalism's reciprocal obligation system gave rise to the idea of the individual and the citizen. According to a related view, the Magna Carta, while a sort of \"feudal document\", marked a transition away from feudalism since the document was not a personal unspoken bond between nobles and the king, but rather was more like a contract between two parties, written in formal language, describing how different parties were supposed to behave towards each other. The Magna Carta posited that the liberty, security and freedom of individuals were \"inviolable\". Gradually the personal ties linking vassals with lords were replaced with contractual and more impersonal relationships.\n\nThe early days of medieval communes were marked by intensive citizenship, according to one view. Sometimes there was terrific religious activism, spurred by fanatics and religious zealotry, and as a result of the discord and religious violence, Europeans learned to value the \"dutiful passive citizen\" as much preferred to the \"self-directed religious zealot\", according to another.\n\nAccording to historian Andrew C. Fix, unlike the rest of Europe, 14th century Italy was urbanized to a much greater extent, with more people living in towns such as Milan, Rome, Genoa, Pisa, Florence, Venice and Naples. Trade in spices with the Middle East, and new industries such as wool and clothing, led to greater prosperity, which in turn permitted greater education and study of the liberal arts, particularly among urbanized youth. A philosophy of \"Studia Huminitatis\", later called humanism, emerged with an emphasis away from the church and towards secularism; thinkers reflected on the study of ancient Rome and ancient Greece including its ideas of citizenship and politics. Competition among the cities helped spur thinking.\n\nFix suggested that of the northern Italian cities, it was Florence which most closely resembled a Republic, although most Italian cities were \"complex oligarchies ruled by groups of rich citizens called \"patricians\", the commercial elite.\" While the city had thrown off control by the Holy Roman Empire in the twelfth century, it came close to being conquered by Milan in 1450, but was spared when the capable leader of Milan died unexpectedly during a siege. Florence's city leaders wondered how to protect their city in the future, and figured that civic education was crucial so that citizens and leaders could cope with future unexpected crises. Politics, previously \"shunned as unspiritual\", came to be viewed as a \"worthy and honorable vocation\", and it was expected that most sectors of the public, from the richer commercial classes and patricians, to workers and the lower classes, should participate in public life. A new sense of citizenship began to emerge based on an \"often turbulent internal political life in the towns\", according to Fix, with competition among guilds and \"much political debate and confrontation\".\n\nDuring the Renaissance and growth of Europe, medieval political scholar Walter Ullmann suggested that the essence of the transition was from people being subjects of a monarch or lord to being citizens of a city and later to a nation. A distinguishing characteristic of a city was having its own law, courts, and independent administration. And being a citizen often meant being subject to the city's law in addition to helping to choose officials. Cities were defensive entities, and its citizens were persons who were \"economically competent to bear arms, to equip and train themselves.\" According to one theorist, the requirement that individual citizen-soldiers provide their own equipment for fighting helped to explain why Western cities evolved the concept of citizenship, while Eastern ones generally did not. And city dwellers who had fought alongside nobles in battles were no longer content with having a subordinate social status, but demanded a greater role in the form of citizenship. In addition to city administration as a way of participating in political decision-making, membership in guilds was an indirect form of citizenship in that it helped their members succeed financially; guilds exerted considerable political influence in the growing towns.\n\nDuring European Middle Ages, citizenship was usually associated with cities. Nobility in the aristocracy used to have privileges of a higher nature than commoners. The rise of citizenship was linked to the rise of republicanism, according to one account, since if a republic belongs to its citizens, then kings have less power. In the emerging nation-states, the territory of the nation was its land, and citizenship was an idealized concept. Increasingly, citizenship related not to a person such as a lord or count, but rather citizenship related a person to the state on the basis of more abstract terms such as rights and duties.\n\nCitizenship was increasingly seen as a result of birth, that is, a birthright. But nations often welcomed foreigners with vital skills and capabilities, and came to accept these new people under a process of naturalization. Increasing frequency of cases of naturalization helped people see citizenship as a relationship which was freely chosen by people. Citizens were people who voluntarily chose allegiance to the state, who accepted the legal status of citizenship with its rights and responsibilities, who obeyed its laws, who were loyal to the state.\n\nThe early modern period saw significant social change in Great Britain in terms of the position of individuals in society and the growing power of Parliament in relation to the monarch. In the 17th century, there was renewed interest in Magna Carta. English common law judge Sir Edward Coke revived the idea of rights based on citizenship by arguing that Englishmen had historically enjoyed such rights. Passage of the Petition of Right in 1628 and Habeas Corpus Act in 1679 established certain liberties for subjects in statute. The idea of a political party took form with groups debating rights to political representation during the Putney Debates of 1647. After the English Civil Wars (1642–1651) and the Glorious Revolution of 1688, the Bill of Rights was enacted in 1689, which codified certain rights and liberties. The Bill set out the requirement for regular elections, rules for freedom of speech in Parliament and limited the power of the monarch, ensuring that, unlike much of Europe at the time, royal absolutism would not prevail.\n\nAcross Europe, the Age of Enlightenment in the 18th century spread new ideas about liberty, reason and politics across the continent and beyond.\n\nBritish colonists across the Atlantic had grown up in a system in which local government was democratic, marked by participation by affluent men, but after the French and Indian War, colonists came to resent an increase in taxes imposed by Britain to offset expenses. What was particularly irksome to colonists was their lack of representation in the British Parliament, and the phrase no taxation without representation became a common grievance. The struggle between rebelling colonists and British troops was a time when citizenship \"worked\", according to one view. American and subsequent French declarations of rights were instrumental in linking the notion of fundamental rights to popular sovereignty in the sense that governments drew their legitimacy and authority from the consent of the governed. The Framers designed the United States Constitution to accommodate a rapidly growing republic by opting for representative democracy as opposed to direct democracy, but this arrangement challenged the idea of citizenship in the sense that citizens were, in effect, choosing other persons to represent them and take their place in government. The revolutionary spirit created a sense of \"broadening inclusion\". The Constitution specified a three-part structure of government with a federal government and state governments, but it did not specify the relation of citizenship. The Bill of Rights protected the rights of individuals from intrusion by the federal government, although it had little impact on judgements by the courts for the first 130 years after ratification. The term \"citizen\" was not defined by the Constitution until the Fourteenth Amendment was added in 1868, which defined United States citizenship to include \"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof.\" The American Revolution demonstrated that it was plausible for Enlightenment ideas about how a government should be organized to actually be put into practice.\n\nThe French Revolution marked major changes and has been widely seen as a watershed event in modern politics. Up until then, the main ties between people under the Ancien Regime were hierarchical, such that each person owed loyalty to the next person further up the chain of command; for example, serfs were loyal to local vassals, who in turn were loyal to nobles, who in turn were loyal to the king, who in turn was presumed to be loyal to God. Clergy and aristocracy had special privileges, including preferential treatment in law courts, and were exempt from taxes; this last privilege had the effect of placing the burden of paying for national expenses on the peasantry. One scholar who examined pre-Revolutionary France described powerful groups which stifled citizenship and included provincial estates, guilds, military governors, courts with judges who owned their offices, independent church officials, proud nobles, financiers and tax farmers. They blocked citizenship indirectly since they kept a small elite governing group in power, and kept regular people away from participating in political decision-making.\n\nThese arrangements changed substantially during and after the French Revolution. Louis XVI mismanaged funds, vacillated, was blamed for inaction during a famine, causing the French people to see the interest of the king and the national interest as opposed. During the early stages of the uprising, the abolition of aristocratic privilege happened during a pivotal meeting on August 4, 1789, in which an aristocrat named Vicomte de Noailles proclaimed before the National Assembly that he would renounce all special privileges and would henceforward be known only as the \"Citizen of Noailles.\" Other aristocrats joined him which helped to dismantle the Ancien Regime's seignorial rights during \"one night of heated oratory\", according to one historian. Later that month, the Assembly's Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen linked the concept of rights with citizenship and asserted that rights of man were \"natural, inalienable, and sacred\", that all men were \"born free and equal, and that the aim of all political association is maintenance of their rights\", according to historian Robert Bucholz. However, the document said nothing about the rights of women, although activist Olympe de Gouge issued a proclamation two years later which argued that women were born with equal rights to men. People began to identify a new loyalty to the nation as a whole, as citizens, and the idea of popular sovereignty earlier espoused by the thinker Rousseau took hold, along with strong feelings of nationalism. Louis XVI and his wife were guillotined.\n\nCitizenship became more inclusive and democratic, aligned with rights and national membership. The king's government was replaced with an administrative hierarchy at all levels, from a national legislature to even power at the local commune, such that power ran both up and down the chain of command. Loyalty became a cornerstone in the concept of citizenship, according to Peter Riesenberg. One analyst suggested that in the French Revolution, two often polar-opposite versions of citizenship merged: (1) the abstract idea of citizenship as equality before the law caused by the centralizing and rationalizing policies of absolute monarchs and (2) the idea of citizenship as a privileged status reserved for rule-makers, brought forth defensively by an aristocratic elite guarding its exclusiveness. According to one view by the German philosopher Max Stirner, the Revolution emancipated the citizen but not the individual, since the individuals were not the agents of change, but only the collective force of all individuals; in Stirner's sense, the \"agent of change\" was effectively the nation. The British thinker T. H. Marshall saw in the 18th century \"serious growth\" of civil rights, with major growth in the legal aspects of citizenship, often defended through courts of law. These civil rights extended citizenship's legal dimensions: they included the right to free speech, the right to a fair trial, and generally equal access to the legal system. Marshall saw the 18th century as signifying civil rights which was a precursor to political rights such as suffrage, and later, in the 20th century, social rights such as welfare.\n\nAfter 1750, states such as Britain and France invested in massive armies and navies which were so expensive to maintain that the option of hiring mercenary soldiers became less attractive. Rulers found troops within the public, and taxed the public to pay for these troops, but one account suggested that the military buildup had a side-effect of undermining the military's autonomous political power. Another view corroborates the idea that military conscription spurred development of a broader role for citizens.\n\nA phenomenon known as the public sphere arose, according to philosopher Jürgen Habermas, as a space between authority and private life in which citizens could meet informally, exchange views on public matters, criticize government choices and suggest reforms. It happened in physical spaces such as public squares as well as in coffeehouses, museums, restaurants, as well as in media such as newspapers, journals, and dramatic performances. It served as a counterweight to government, a check on its power, since a bad ruling could be criticized by the public in places such as editorials. According to Schudson, the public sphere was a \"playing field for citizenship\".\n\nIn the late-19th century, thinking about citizenship began to influence China. Discussion started of ideas (such as legal limits, definitions of monarchy and the state, parliaments and elections, an active press, public opinion) and of concepts (such as civic virtue, national unity, and social progress).\n\nJohn Stuart Mill in his work \"On Liberty\" (1859) believed that there should be no distinctions between men and women, and that both were capable of citizenship. British sociologist Thomas Humphrey Marshall suggested that the changing patterns of citizenship were as follows: first, a civil relation in the sense of having equality before the law, followed by political citizenship in the sense of having the power to vote, and later a social citizenship in the sense of having the state support individual persons along the lines of a welfare state. Marshall argued in the middle of the 20th century that modern citizenship encompassed all three dimensions: civil, political, and social. He wrote that citizenship required a vital sense of community in the sense of a feeling of loyalty to a common civilization. Thinkers such as Marc Steinberg saw citizenship emerge from a class struggle interrelated with the principle of nationalism. People who were native-born or naturalised members of the state won a greater share of the rights out of \"a continuing series of transactions between persons and agents of a given state in which each has enforceable rights and obligations\", according to Steinberg. This give-and-take to a common acceptance of the powers of both the citizen and the state. He argued that:\n\nNationalism emerged. Many thinkers suggest that notions of citizenship rights emerged from this spirit of each person identifying strongly with the nation of their birth. A modern type of citizenship is one which lets people participate in a number of different ways. Citizenship is not a \"be-all end-all\" relation, but only one of many types of relationships which a person might have. It has been seen as an \"equalizing principle\" in the sense that most other people have the same status. One theory sees different types of citizenship emanating out from concentric circles—from the town, to the state, to the world—and that citizenship can be studied by looking at which types of relations people value at any one time.\n\nThe idea that participating in lawmaking is an essential aspect of citizenship continues to be expressed by different thinkers. For example, British journalist and pamphleteer William Cobbett said that the \"greatest right\", which he called the \"right of rights\", was having a share in the \"making of the laws\", and then submitting the laws to the \"good of the whole.\"\nThe idea of citizenship, and western senses of government, began to emerge in Asia in the 19th and 20th centuries. In Meiji Japan, popular social forces exerted influence against traditional types of authority, and out of a period of negotiations and concessions by the state came a time of \"expanding democracy\", according to one account. Numerous cause-and-effect relations worked to bring about a Japanese version of citizenship: expanding military activity led to an enlarged state and territory, which furthered direct rule including the power of the military and the Japanese emperor, but this indirectly led to popular resistance, struggle, bargaining, and consequently an expanded role for citizens in early 20th century Japan.\n\nThe concept of citizenship is hard to isolate, since it relates to many other contextual aspects of society such as the family, military service, the individual, freedom, religion, ideas of right and wrong, ethnicity, and patterns for how a person should behave in society. According to British politician Douglas Hurd, citizenship is essentially doing good to others. When there are many different ethnic and religious groups within a nation, citizenship may be the only real bond which unites everybody as equals without discrimination—it is a \"broad bond\" as one writer described it. Citizenship links \"a person with the state\" and gives people a universal identity—as a legal member of a nation—besides their identity based on ties of ethnicity or an ethnic self.\n\nBut clearly there are wide differences between ancient conceptions of citizenship and modern ones. While the modern one still respects the idea of participation in the political process, it is usually done through \"elaborate systems of political representation at a distance\" such as representative democracy, and carried out under the \"shadow of a permanent professional administrative apparatus.\" Unlike the ancient patterns, modern citizenship is much more passive; action is delegated to others; citizenship is often a constraint on acting, not an impetus to act. Nevertheless, citizens are aware of their obligations to authorities, and they are aware that these bonds \"limits their personal political autonomy in a quite profound manner\". But there are disagreements that the contrast between ancient and modern versions of citizenship was that sharp; one theorist suggested that the supposedly \"modern\" aspects of so-called passive citizenship, such as tolerance, respect for others, and simply \"minding one's own business\", were present in ancient times too.\n\nCitizenship can be seen as both a status and an ideal. Sometimes mentioning the idea of citizenship implies a host of theories as well as the possibility of social reform, according to one view. It invokes a model of what a person should do in relation to the state, and suggests education or punishment for those who stray from the model.\n\nSeveral thinkers see the modern notion of individualism as being sometimes consistent with citizenship, and other times opposed to it. Accordingly, the \"modern individual\" and the \"modern citizen\" seem to be the same, but too much individualism can have the effect of leading to a \"crisis of citizenship\". Another agreed that individualism can corrupt citizenship. Another sees citizenship as a substantial dilemma between the individual and society, and between the individual and the state, and asked questions such as whether the focus of a person's efforts should be on the collective good or on the individual good? In a Marxist view, the individual and the citizen were both \"essentially necessary\" to each other in that neither could exist without the other, but both aspects within a person were essentially antagonistic to each other. Habermas suggested in his book \"The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere\" that while citizenship widened to include more people, the public sphere shrunk and became commercialized, devoid of serious debate, with media coverage of political campaigns having less focus on issues and more focus on sound bites and political scandals, and in the process, citizenship became more common but meant less. Political participation declined for most people.\nOther thinkers echo that citizenship is a vortex for competing ideas and currents, sometimes working against each other, sometimes working in harmony. For example, sociologist T. H. Marshall suggested that citizenship was a contradiction between the \"formal political equality of the franchise\" and the \"persistence of extensive social and economic inequality.\" In Marshall's sense, citizenship was a way to straddle both issues. A wealthy person and a poor person were both equal in the sense of being citizens, but separated by the economic inequality. Marshall saw citizenship as the basis for awarding social rights, and he made a case that extending such rights would not jeopardize the structure of social classes or end inequality. He saw capitalism as a dynamic system with constant clashes between citizenship and social class, and how these clashes played out determined how a society's political and social life would manifest themselves.\n\nCitizenship was not always about including everybody, but was also a powerful force to exclude persons at the margins of society, such as the outcasts, illegal immigrants and others. In this sense, citizenship was not only about getting rights and entitlements but it was a struggle to \"reject claims of entitlement by those initially residing outside the core, and subsequently, of migrant and immigrant labour.\" But one thinker described democratic citizenship as inclusive, generally, and wrote that democratic citizenship:\n\n\"Citizenship\" in the modern sense is often seen as having two widely divergent strains marked by tension between them.\n\nThe \"liberal-individualist\" conception of citizenship, or sometimes merely the \"liberal\" conception, has a concern that the individual's status may be undermined by government. The perspective suggests a language of \"needs\" and \"entitlements\" necessary for human dignity and is based on reason for the pursuit of self-interest or more accurately as enlightened self-interest. The conception suggests a focus on the manufacture of material things as well as man's economic vitality, with society seen as a \"market-based association of competitive individuals.\" From this view, citizens are sovereign, morally autonomous beings with duties to pay taxes, obey the law, engage in business transactions, and defend the nation if it comes under attack, but are essentially passive politically. This conception of citizenship has sometimes been termed \"conservative\" in the sense that passive citizens want to conserve their private interests, and that private people have a right to be left alone. This formulation of citizenship was expressed somewhat in the philosophy of John Rawls, who believed that every person in a society has an \"equal right to a fully adequate scheme of equal basic rights and liberties\" and that society has an obligation to try to benefit the \"least advantaged members of society\". But this sense of citizenship has been criticized; according to one view, it can lead to a \"culture of subjects\" with a \"degeneration of public spirit\" since \"economic man\", or homo economicus, is too focused on material pursuits to engage in civic activity to be true citizens.\n\nA competing vision is that democratic citizenship may be founded on a \"culture of participation\". This orientation has sometimes been termed the \"civic-republican\" or \"classical\" conception of citizenship since it focuses on the importance of people practicing citizenship actively and finding places to do this. Unlike the liberal-individualist conception, the civic-republican conception emphasizes man's political nature, and sees citizenship as an active, not passive, activity. A general problem with this conception, according to critics, is that if this model is implemented, it may bring about other issues such as the free rider problem in which some people neglect basic citizenship duties and consequently get a free ride supported by the citizenship efforts of others. This view emphasizes the democratic participation inherent in citizenship, and can \"channel legitimate frustrations and grievances\" and bring people together to focus on matters of common concern and lead to a politics of empowerment, according to theorist Dora Kostakopoulou. Like the liberal-individualist conception, it is concerned about government running roughshod over individuals, but unlike the liberal-individualist conception, it is relatively more concerned that government will interfere with popular places to practice citizenship in the public sphere, rather than take away or lessen particular citizenship rights. This sense of citizenship has been described as \"active and public citizenship\", and has sometimes been called a \"revolutionary idea\". According to one view, most people today live as citizens according to the liberal-individualist conception but wished they lived more according to the civic-republican ideal.\n\nThe subject of citizenship, including political discussions about what exactly the term describes, can be a battleground for ideological debates. In Canada, \"citizenship\" and related issues such as civic education are \"hotly contested.\" There continues to be sentiment within the academic community that trying to define one \"unitary theory of citizenship\" which would describe citizenship in every society, or even in any one society, would be a meaningless exercise. Citizenship has been described as \"multi-layered belongings\"—different attachments, different bonds and allegiances. This is the view of Hebert & Wilkinson who suggest there is not one single perspective on citizenship but \"multiple citizenship\" relations since each person belongs to many different groups which define him or her.\n\nSociologist Michael Schudson examined changing patterns of citizenship in US history and suggested there were four basic periods:\n\nSchudson chronicled changing patterns in which citizenship expanded to include formerly disenfranchised groups such as women and minorities while parties declined. Interest groups influenced legislators directly via lobbying. Politics retreated to being a peripheral concern for citizens who were often described as \"self-absorbed\".\n\nIn the 21st-century America, citizenship is generally considered to be a legal marker recognizing that a person is an American. \"Duty\" is generally not part of citizenship. Citizens generally do not see themselves as having a \"duty\" to provide assistance to one another, although officeholders are seen as having a duty to the public. Rather, citizenship is a bundle of rights which includes being able to get assistance from the federal government. A similar pattern marks the idea of citizenship in many western-style nations. Most Americans do not think much about citizenship except perhaps when applying for a passport and traveling internationally. Feliks Gross sees 20th century America as an \"efficient, pluralistic and civic system that extended equal rights to all citizens, irrespective of race, ethnicity and religion.\" According to Gross, the US can be considered as a \"model of a modern civic and democratic state\" although discrimination and prejudice still survive. The exception, of course, is that persons living within the borders of America illegally see citizenship as a major issue.\n\nNevertheless, one of the constants is that scholars and thinkers continue to agree that the concept of \"citizenship\" is hard to define, and lacks a precise meaning.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15604409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15604409", "title": "Johannes W. Pichler", "text": "Johannes W. Pichler\n\nJohannes Werner Pichler (born July 1, 1947 in Linz, Austria) is an Austrian law professor for European Legal Development at the University of Graz, Austria and Director of the Austrian Institute of Legal Policy in Salzburg.\n\nPichler studied law at the Universities of Vienna and Salzburg, where he earned his doctorate degree in 1971. Afterwards, he worked as assistant professor for legal history at the University of Salzburg, before he became Full Professor for European Legal Development at the University of Graz in 1994, where he holds the chair for \"Development of European law\" at the University of Graz. Since 1986, he leads the independent research institute \"Austrian Institute for European Law and Policy\" in Salzburg, which focuses on European legal policy since 2008. In these capacities, his research focused on acceptance of law, certainty of justice on the internet, family and marriage law, healthcare law, industrial law, youth law and patients' rights.\n\nPichler is chairman of the association \"Europe needs initiative\" and member of the advisory council of the \"Initiative and Referendum Institute Europe\"'. Both associations were instrumental for the introduction of the European Citizens' Initiative in 2012. Johannes Pichler is also a member of the advisory council for the law symposium of the European Forum Alpbach.\n\nUntil 1999, he was a member of the Austrian Peoples' Party (ÖVP), but left the party out of protest against the coalition with the Freedom Party of Austria(FPÖ).\n\nHe is married, has three children, and lives in Graz and Salzburg.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40849234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40849234", "title": "Kidwell v The Master", "text": "Kidwell v The Master\n\nIn Kidwell v The Master, an important case in the South African law of succession, the testator had signed right at the bottom of the will; there was about between the end of the will (which included the witnesses’ signatures) and the testator’s signature. The question before the court was where the end of the will was. The court held that the will was invalid as it did not comply with section 2(1)(a)(i) of the Wills Act. The decision has been criticised as overly formalistic by some commentators, who believe the overriding criteria for the courts should be to give effect to the wishes of the testator, and this case did not do this over something seemingly insignificant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21281748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21281748", "title": "Law of 20 May 1802", "text": "Law of 20 May 1802\n\nThe French Law of 20 May 1802 was passed that day (30 floréal year X), revoking the Law of 4 February 1794 (16 pluviôse) which had abolished slavery in all the French colonies. That law had not taken effect in many of the colonies, with La Réunion hindering its implementation. Martinique refused to ratify it due to a royalist insurrection there, similar to that in the Vendée, which had been in revolt since 16 September 1793 and had, represented by planter Louis-François Dubuc, signed the Whitehall accord of submission to England. On 6 February 1794 the English began their military conquest of Martinique, completed on 21 March 1794, and thus the island avoided the abolition of slavery.\n\nThe Law of 20 May 1802 explicitly concerned the territories that had not been applied the 1794 law and was linked to the 1802 Treaty of Amiens which restored Martinique to France. The 1802 law thus did not apply to Guadeloupe and Guyane. Napoleon's position was more characterised by pragmatism than by any 'ideological' inclination. The law had little effect in Saint-Domingue except to re-inflame rebellion and accelerate its march towards independence in 1804 – on 24 July 1802 general Leclerc (commander of the Saint-Domingue expedition) wrote to admiral Denis Decrès inviting him to renounce all attempts to restore slavery to Saint Domingue.\n\nJoséphine de Beauharnais's intervention in favour of re-establishing slavery is probably a myth, since there is no evidence for it, she had little political influence over Napoleon and her pro-slavery bias has not been clearly demonstrated. The maintenance and re-imposition of slavery was far more influenced by Britain and her allies.\n"}
{"id": "2335393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2335393", "title": "List of Acts of Parliament in Singapore", "text": "List of Acts of Parliament in Singapore\n\nThis is a somewhat complete list of all Singapore Acts of Parliament which are currently in force - the entire list of acts in force is available online at the Singapore Attorney-General's Chambers website, at Singapore Statutes. Approved Budgets and annual debates may be found at the Supply Act.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48590846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48590846", "title": "Maine Question 1, June 2018", "text": "Maine Question 1, June 2018\n\nMaine Question 1 was a people's veto referendum that appeared on the June 12, 2018 statewide ballot. It sought to repeal a law passed by the Maine Legislature that suspended the implementation of ranked choice voting, authorized by Maine voters in a previous referendum, for use in Maine elections until and if an amendment to the Maine Constitution is passed to expressly permit it; failing that, the law would be automatically repealed in 2021. It qualified because supporters of the original referendum collected the necessary number of signatures from registered Maine voters. This vote coincided with primary elections in which party nominees for governor, U.S. Senate, U.S. House, and the Maine Legislature were chosen to run in general elections on November 6. \n\nThe people's veto was passed, with 53.88% of Maine voters voting Yes. This restored ranked choice voting for primary and federal elections.\n\nOn November 8, 2016, Maine voters passed Question 5, a citizen referendum to implement ranked choice voting (RCV). Supporters expected RCV to be in place for 2018's elections, but on May 23, 2017, the Maine Supreme Judicial Court issued an advisory opinion at the request of the Maine Senate stating that RCV in general elections for state offices would be held unconstitutional if it came before the court. The opinion did not affect elections for federal offices or primary elections for state offices. RCV opponents subsequently called for the law establishing RCV to be repealed, while supporters called for a vote on a constitutional amendment to permit the law. On October 23, 2017, the Legislature voted to delay implementation of the RCV law for all races until 2021. If a constitutional amendment was not passed by that point, the law would be repealed.\n\nUnhappy with the delay, RCV supporters launched a people's veto signature-gathering effort to prevent it, pointing to RCV's successful use in mixed-race ballots in Portland. On November 6, 2017, the petition forms were approved after Governor Paul LePage waited the full 10 days he is permitted by law to allow the delay to take effect without his signature. On November 12 the effort's leaders said they had collected half the signatures needed and set a goal of finishing by December 15, though by law they had 90 days from when they started.\n\nOn February 2, 2018, RCV Maine turned in over 80,000 signatures to Maine Secretary of State Matthew Dunlap for verification. The signatures were gathered despite the coldest weather in years occurring during the gathering period. This suspended the Legislature's delay of RCV pending the outcome of the vote, meaning it would be used in the June primary elections. Dunlap said his office was exploring strategies for implementation of RCV but that it was challenging since the Legislature had not given him additional resources.\n\nOn March 5 Dunlap announced that approximately 66,000 signatures had been verified, more than the 61,000 needed to place a question on the ballot. \n\nThe question that appeared on the ballot was \"Do you want to reject the parts of a new law that would delay the use of ranked-choice voting in the election of candidates for any state or federal office until 2022, and then retain the method only if the constitution is amended by December 1, 2021, to allow ranked-choice voting for candidates in state elections?\"\n\nA people's veto effort suspends the law under dispute until the result of the vote is determined. Supporters have asserted this means that the law voters passed in 2016 establishing RCV should be implemented in a manner consistent with the Maine Supreme Judicial Court ruling. On March 29, 2018, Dunlap told a Maine Legislature committee hearing that in this case that means the original law is in effect, requiring the original first-past-the-post system for the upcoming primaries, unless the Legislature passes an emergency change to the law or a court tells him otherwise. Dunlap said he needed clarity on the issue by April 2 so overseas ballots could be printed and sent as federal law requires. Passage of a new law seemed unlikely, as it would need a 2/3 vote to pass the Legislature as an emergency measure. Maine Attorney General Janet T. Mills urged the Legislature to pass a new law, saying that the signers of the people's veto petition should not be thwarted by a technicality. RCV supporters said they would seek a court injunction to order the use of RCV. On April 4 Judge Michaela Murphy ruled that Dunlap should proceed with efforts to implement RCV for the June primaries while the issues with the law are heard by the courts.\n\nIn a separate case, the Maine Senate voted 21-13 to direct Senate President Michael Thibodeau to seek intervenor status with the court in the RCV case. Majority Senate Republicans claim that Thibodeau would have standing to intervene as the Senate has a duty to defend the Maine Constitution. They additionally argued that the Legislature has not approved funding specifically for RCV, and that chaos could result if losing candidates in elections began to file lawsuits over the use of RCV. Democrats rejected those arguments, stating that Republicans were cherry-picking parts of the Constitution and ignoring the parts that permit citizens to pass laws at the ballot box, and pointed out that Dunlap has the authority and funding to hold elections in general. They added that the Senate is only part of the legislative branch and that more would be needed for standing.\n\nOn April 18 the Maine Supreme Judicial Court removed the last legal roadblocks to using RCV in primary elections, upholding the lower court ruling. It also declined to hear Thibodeau's appeal, saying it would not hear a political dispute from one half of one body of the Legislature.\n\nOn May 4 the Maine Republican Party filed a federal lawsuit in U.S. District Court in Bangor seeking to bar the use of RCV in its own primary, on the grounds that the party has a First Amendment right to choose its nominee as it sees fit. U.S. District Court Judge Jon Levy rejected the suit on May 29.\n\n\n\nThe \"Bangor Daily News\" called the vote for the Yes side just after midnight on election night.\n"}
{"id": "23637455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23637455", "title": "Marks &amp; Clerk", "text": "Marks &amp; Clerk\n\nMarks & Clerk is an international group of intellectual property service providers, encompassing patent attorneys, trade mark attorneys, lawyers and consultants. Including partners, it currently employs over 300 legal practitioners worldwide and over 550 other staff.\n\nIt primarily offers intellectual property (IP) protection, strategy, dispute resolution, commercial and valuation services to clients around the world.\n\nMaureen Kinsler was elected International Chairman in December 2015.\n\nThe business has a total of 17 offices worldwide, operating out of eight offices in the UK, two in France, two in Canada and others in Luxembourg, China, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia.\n\nThe firm merged with the Lloyd Wise Group in 2007, extending its client base into the Asia-Pacific region. In 2009 its UK Patent and Trade Mark Attorney business became a Limited liability partnership. It celebrated its 130th anniversary in 2017.\n\nMarks & Clerk Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys were ranked in the top tier of the \"Managing Intellectual Property\" IPStars 2017 guide in the UK, Scotland, Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia. Both its lawyers and Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys are also featured in the \"Chambers\", \"Legal 500\", \"IAM Patent 1000\" and \"WTR1000\" guides.\n\n"}
{"id": "27637663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27637663", "title": "Nano House", "text": "Nano House\n\nThe Nano House was named to be the world's smallest sustainable house. \n\nThe Nano Living System is a Swiss made \"green\" pre-engineered concept for residential use that presents an innovative and sustainable architectural proposition. The design was based on a combination of pre-engineered SIPs (made from cement fiberboard, recycled light gauge steel and polyurethane foam), creation of flexible spaces (through Nano Living Systems' \"Suspending Technology\") and use of renewable energy systems. This suggests an optimistic and environmental solution for the global housing issue of very small living spaces at extremely high prices.\n\nThe \"Nano House\" can be used by a family of three in an area consisting of . This is made possible by the incorporation of the \"suspending technology\", which nearly doubles the size of the living area within this space by transforming what is common living space by day into two separate bedrooms by night. The \"suspending technology\" can be used in new construction and can also be adapted to be used in existing structures, such as hotels, studios, dormitories and very small housing.\n\n"}
{"id": "47143908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47143908", "title": "National Security Law of People's Republic of China", "text": "National Security Law of People's Republic of China\n\nNational Security Law of People's Republic of China (), which was issued on July 1, 2015, is a Chinese law made up by 7 sections containing 84 articles.the authority of the PRC says that this law can protect national security of the PRC effectively and the medias controlled by the authority praise the law, while some analysts think that the authority can restrict Chinese people's freedom by this law.\n\nAnnette Lu, the formal Vice President of Taiwan, said that this law is an offense to Taiwan, and some people from Hong Kong concern about their safety while stay in the Mainland China after this law was issued.\n"}
{"id": "7021319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7021319", "title": "No longer enemy combatant", "text": "No longer enemy combatant\n\nNo Longer Enemy Combatant (NLEC) is a term used by the U.S. military for a group of 38 Guantanamo detainees whose Combatant Status Review Tribunal determined they were not \"enemy combatants\". None of the detainees who were determined not to have been enemy combatants were released right away. Ten of the detainees who had been determined not to have been enemy combatants were allowed to move to the more comfortable Camp Iguana. Others, such as Sami Al Laithi, remained in solitary confinement.\n\nThirty-eight detainees were finally classified as NLECs.\nThe fifth Denbeaux report, \"No-hearing hearings\", reported that an additional three Combatant Status Review Tribunals determined that captives should not have been determined to have been enemy combatants, only to have their recommendation overturned.\n\nThe \"Washington Post\" has published a list of the names of 30 of the 38 individuals who were determined not to have been enemy combatants.\n\nThe delay in the release of some of the detainees was due to considerations of their safety. Some could not be returned to their home countries, out of fears of retaliation from their fellow citizens, or from the governments of their countries. Some, like Al Laithi, were returned to their home countries after the US secured a promise that they would not be punished by their home countries. Others, like five of the Uyghur detainees in Guantanamo, were released when the US found a third country which would accept them.\n\nThree further captives who had been determined not to have been enemy combatants, who had been occupants of Camp Iguana since May 2005, were released in Albania in November 2006.\n\nThe fifth Denbeaux study, entitled \"No-hearing hearings\", revealed that some Guantanamo captives had second or third Combatant Status Review Tribunals convened when their first tribunal determined that they had not been enemy combatants after all.\n\nH. Candace Gorman, the pro bono lawyer for Abdel Hamid Ibn Abdussalem Ibn Mifta Al Ghazzawi, expressed surprise when she learned that her client had initially been determined not to have been an enemy combatant, after all. Gorman described traveling to the secure site in Virginia, the only place where lawyers were allowed to review their clients' classified files. She was told that the justification for convening her client's second tribunal had been that the DoD had new evidence. However, when she reviewed the transcript of his second tribunal she found that there had been no new evidence.\n\nLieutenant Colonel Stephen Abraham came forward and swore an affidavit, describing his experience sitting on Al Ghazzawi's tribunal.\n\nOn 19 November 2007, the Department of Defense published a list of the 38 men finally deemed to be no longer enemy combatants in 2004.\nOn 17 January 2009, Carol Rosenberg, writing in the \"Miami Herald\", quoted Guantanamo spokesman Jeffrey Gordon, that a panel of officers had recently reviewed Bismullah's \"enemy combatant\" status, and determined, \"based on new evidence\", that he was not an enemy combatant after all.\nBismullah was released to Afghanistan on January 17.\n\n"}
{"id": "3800974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3800974", "title": "Opposition proceeding", "text": "Opposition proceeding\n\nAn opposition proceeding is an administrative process available under the patent and trademark law of many jurisdictions which allows third parties to formally challenge the validity of a pending patent application (\"pre-grant opposition\"), of a granted patent (\"post-grant opposition\"), or of a trademark.\n\nIn the context of the proceedings at the European Patent Office (EPO), third parties may dispute the validity of a granted European patent by filing a post-grant opposition under the European Patent Convention (EPC). The term for filing an opposition with the EPO is nine months from the publication of the mention of the grant of the European patent in the European Patent Bulletin.\n\nUnder United States patent law, an opposition proceeding is called a reexamination. Post-grant review provisions of the new patent law may affect a potential patent infringement defendant’s strategies in filing a declaratory judgment action. Subsequent to the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (2011), any third party can challenge the validity of an issued patent using either post-grant review under 35 U.S.C. § 321 or inter partes review under 35 U.S.C. § 311. Both proceedings became effective September 16, 2012.\n\nIn the case of trademarks, third parties may use opposition proceedings to \"oppose\" the acceptance of a trademark application after it has been accepted and published for opposition purposes. If an opposition is defeated the trademark will proceed to registration. Some jurisdictions operate a \"post-grant\" opposition system, whereby opposition is not possible until after registration (e.g. Japan).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "222783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222783", "title": "Partnership", "text": "Partnership\n\nA partnership is an arrangement where parties, known as partners, agree to cooperate to advance their mutual interests. The partners in a partnership may be individuals, businesses, interest-based organizations, schools, governments or combinations. Organizations may partner to increase the likelihood of each achieving their mission and to amplify their reach. A partnership may result in issuing and holding equity or may be only governed by a contract.\n\nPartnerships have a long history; they were already in use in Medieval times in Europe and in the Middle East. \nIn Europe, the partnerships contributed to the Commercial Revolution which started in the 13th century. In the 15th century the cities of the Hanseatic League, would mutually strengthen each other; a ship from Hamburg to Danzig would not only carry its own cargo but was also commissioned to transport freight for other members of the league. This practice not only saved time and money, but also constituted a first step toward partnership. This capacity to join forces in reciprocal services became a distinctive feature, and a long lasting success factor, of the Hanseatic team spirit.\n\nA close examination of Medieval trade in Europe shows that numerous significant credit based trades were not bearing interest. Hence, pragmatism and common sense called for a fair compensation for the risk of lending money, and a compensation for the opportunity cost of lending money without using it for other fruitful purposes. In order to circumvent the usury laws edicted by the Church, other forms of reward were created, in particular through the widespread form of partnership called \"commenda\", very popular with Italian merchant bankers. Florentine merchant banks were almost sure to make a positive return on their loans, but this would be before taking into account solvency risks.\n\nIn the Middle East, the \"Qirad\" and \"Mudarabas\" institutions developed when trade with the Levant, namely the Ottoman Empire and the Muslim Near East, flourished and when early trading companies, contracts, bills of exchange and long-distance international trade were established. After the fall of the Roman Empire, the Levant trade revived in the tenth to eleventh centuries in Byzantine Italy. The eastern and western Mediterranean formed part of a single commercial civilization in the Middle Ages, and the two regions were economically interdependent through trade (in varying degrees).\n\nAlthough not required by law, partners may benefit from a partnership agreement that defines the important terms of the relationship between them. Partnership agreements can be formed in the following areas: \n\nPartnerships present the involved parties with complex negotiation and special challenges that must be navigated unto agreement. Overarching goals, levels of give-and-take, areas of responsibility, lines of authority and succession, how success is evaluated and distributed, and often a variety of other factors must all be negotiated. Once agreement is reached, the partnership is typically enforceable by civil law, especially if well documented. Partners who wish to make their agreement affirmatively explicit and enforceable typically draw up Articles of Partnership. Trust and pragmatism are also essential as it cannot be expected that everything can be written in the initial partnership agreement, therefore quality governance and clear communication are critical success factors in the long run. It is common for information about formally partnered entities to be made public, such as through a press release, a newspaper ad, or public records laws.\n\nWhile industrial partnerships stand to amplify mutual interests and accelerate success, some forms of collaboration may be considered ethically problematic. When a politician, for example, partners with a corporation to advance the latter's interest in exchange for some benefit, a conflict of interest results; consequentially, the public good may suffer. While technically lawful in some jurisdictions, such practice is broadly viewed negatively or as corruption.\n\nPartner compensation will often be defined by the terms of a partnership agreement. Partners who work for the partnership may receive compensation for their labor before any division of profits between partners.\n\nIn certain partnerships of individuals, particularly law firms and accountancy firms, equity partners are distinguished from salaried partners (or contract or income partners). The degree of control which each type of partner exerts over the partnership depends on the relevant partnership agreement.\n\nAlthough individuals in both categories are described as partners, equity partners and salaried partners have little in common other than joint and several liability. In many legal systems, salaried partners are not technically \"partners\" at all in the eyes of the law. However, if their firm holds them out as partners, they are nonetheless subject to joint and several liability.\n\nIn their most basic form, equity partners enjoy a fixed share of the partnership (usually, but not always an equal share with the other partners) and, upon distribution of profits, receive a portion of the partnership's profits proportionate to that share. In more sophisticated partnerships, different models exist for determining either ownership interest, profit distribution, or both. Two common alternate approaches to distribution of profit are \"lockstep\" and \"source of origination\" compensation (sometimes referred to, more graphically, as \"eat what you kill\").\n\nSource of origination compensation is rarely seen outside of law firms. The principle is simply that each partner receives a share of the partnership profits up to a certain amount, with any additional profits being distributed to the partner who was responsible for the \"origination\" of the work that generated the profits.\n\nBritish law firms tend to use the lockstep principle, whereas American firms are more accustomed to source of origination. When British firm Clifford Chance merged with American firm Rogers & Wells, many of the difficulties associated with that merger were blamed on the difficulties of merging a lockstep culture with a source of origination culture.\n\nPartnerships recognized by a government body may enjoy special benefits from taxation policy. Among developed countries, for example, business partnerships are often favored over corporations in taxation policy, since dividend taxes only occur on profit before they are distributed to the partners. However, depending on the partnership structure and the jurisdiction in which it operates, owners of a partnership may be exposed to greater personal liability than they would as shareholders of a corporation. In such countries, partnerships are often regulated via anti-trust laws, so as to inhibit monopolistic practices and foster free market competition. Enforcement of the laws, however, varies considerably. Domestic partnerships recognized by governments typically enjoy tax benefits, as well.\n\nAt common law, members of a business partnership are personally liable for the debts and obligations of the partnership. Forms of partnership have evolved that may limit a partner's liability.\n\nAs common law there are two basic forms of partnership:\n\nMore recently, additional forms of partnership have been recognized:\n\nA silent partner is one who still shares in the profits and losses of the business, but who is not involved in its management. Sometimes the silent partner's interest in the business will not be publicly known. A silent partner is often an investor in the partnership, who is entitled to a share of the partnership's profits. Silent partners may prefer to invest in limited partnerships in order to insulate their personal assets from the debts or liabilities of the partnership.\n\nSummarising s. 5 of the \"Partnership Act 1958\" (Vic) (hereinafter the \"Act\"), for a partnership in Australia to exist, four main criteria must be satisfied. They are:\nPartners share profits and losses. A partnership is basically a settlement between two or more groups or firms in which profit and loss are equally divided\n\nIn Bangladesh, the relevant law for regulating partnership is the Partnership Act 1932. A partnership is defined as the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all. The law does not require written partnership agreement between the partners to form a partnership. A partnership does not also required to be registered, however an unregistered partnership has a number of limitation regarding enforcing its rights in any court. A partnership is considered as a separate legal identity (i.e. separate from its owners) in Bangladesh only if the partnership is registered. There must be a minimum of 2 partners and maximum of 20 partners.\n\nStatutory regulation of partnerships in Canada fall under provincial jurisdiction. A partnership is not a separate legal entity and partnership income is taxed at the rate of the partner receiving the income. It can be deemed to exist regardless of the intention of the partners. Common elements considered by courts in determining the existence of a partnership are that two or more legal persons:\n\nA partnership in Hong Kong is a business entity formed by the Hong Kong Partnerships Ordinance, which defines a partnership as \"the relation between persons carrying on a business in common with a view of profit\" and is not a joint stock company or an incorporated company. If the business entity registers with the Registrar of Companies it takes the form of a limited partnership defined in the Limited Partnerships Ordinance. However, if this business entity fails to register with the Registrar of Companies, then it becomes a general partnership as a default.\n\nAccording to section 4 of the Partnership Act of 1932,\"Partnership is defined as the relation between two or more persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business run by all or any one of them acting for all\". This definition superseded the previous definition given in section 239 of Indian Contract Act 1872 as – “Partnership is the relation which subsists between persons who have agreed to combine their property, labor, skill in some business, and to share the profits thereof between them”. The 1932 definition added the concept of mutual agency. The Indian Partnerships have the following common characteristics:\n\n1) A partnership firm is not a legal entity apart from the partners constituting it. It has limited identity for the purpose of tax law as per section 4 of the Partnership Act of 1932.\n\n2) Partnership is a concurrent subject. Contracts of partnerships are included in the Entry no.7 of List III of The Constitution of India (the list constitutes the subjects on which both the State government and Central (National) Government can legislate i.e. pass laws on).\n\n3) Unlimited Liability. The major disadvantage of partnership is the unlimited liability of partners for the debts and liabilities of the firm. Any partner can bind the firm and the firm is liable for all liabilities incurred by any firm on behalf of the firm. If property of partnership firm is insufficient to meet liabilities, personal property of any partner can be attached to pay the debts of the firm.\n\n4) Partners are Mutual Agents.The business of firm can be carried on by all or any of them for all. Any partner has authority to bind the firm. Act of any one partner is binding on all the partners. Thus, each partner is ‘agent’ of all the remaining partners. Hence, partners are ‘mutual agents’. Section 18 of the Partnership Act, 1932 says \"Subject to the provisions of this Act, a partner is the agent of the firm for the purpose of the business of the firm\"\n\n5) Oral or Written Agreements. The Partnership Act, 1932 nowhere mentions that the Partnership Agreement is to be in written or oral format. Thus the general rule of the Contract Act applies that the contract can be 'oral' or 'written' as long as it satisfies the basic conditions of being a contract i.e. the agreement between partners is legally enforceable. A written agreement is advisable to establish existence of partnership and to prove rights and liabilities of each partner, as it is difficult to prove an oral agreement.\n\n6) Number of Partners is minimum 2 and maximum 50 in any kind of business activities.Since partnership is ‘agreement’ there must be minimum two partners. The Partnership Act does not put any restrictions on maximum number of partners. However, section 464 of Companies Act 2013, and Rule 10 of Companies (Miscellaneous) Rules, 2014 prohibits partnership consisting of more than 50 for any businesses, unless it is registered as a company under Companies Act, 2013 or formed in pursuance of some other law. Some other law means companies and corporations formed via some other law passed by Parliament of India.\n\n7) Mutual agency is the real test. The real test of ‘partnership firm’ is ‘mutual agency’ set by the Courts of India, i.e. whether a partner can bind the firm by his act, i.e. whether he can act as agent of all other partners.\n\n8) Global Safety Summit. The real test of ‘partnership firm’ is ‘mutual agency’ set by the public limited companies of India, i.e. whether a partner can bind the firm by his act, i.e. whether he can act as agent of all other partners.\n\nA limited partnership in the United Kingdom consists of:\n\n\nLimited partners may not:\n\n\nIf they do, they become liable for all the debts and obligations of the firm up to the amount drawn out or received back or incurred while taking part in the management, as the case may be.\n\nUnder U.S. law a partnership is a business association of two or more individuals, through which partners share the profits and responsibility for the liabilities of their venture. U.S. states recognize forms of limited partnership that may allow a partner who does not participate in the business venture to avoid liability for the partnership's debts and obligations. Partnerships typically pay less taxes than corporations in fields like fund management.\n\nThe federal government of the United States does not have specific statutory law governing the establishment of partnerships. Instead, every U.S. state and the District of Columbia has its own statutes and common law that govern partnerships. The National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws has issued non-binding model laws (called uniform act) in which to encourage the adoption of uniformity of partnership law into the states by their respective legislatures. Model laws include the Uniform Partnership Act and the Uniform Limited Partnership Act. Most U.S. states have adopted a form of the Uniform Partnership Act, which includes provisions reguating general partnerships, limited partnerships and limited liability partnerships.\n\nAlthough the federal government does not have specific statutory law for establishing partnerships, it has an extensive statutory and regulatory scheme for the taxation of partnerships, set forth in the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) and Code of Federal Regulations. The IRC defines federal tax obligations for partnership operations that effectively serve as federal regulation of some aspects of partnerships.\n"}
{"id": "43738335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43738335", "title": "Price Waterhouse v Kwan", "text": "Price Waterhouse v Kwan\n\nPrice Waterhouse v Kwan [2000] 3 NZLR 39 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding liability for negligent misstatements.\n\nPrice Waterhouse were the auditors of a law firm. It was later claimed that Price Waterhouse were negligent in their audits resulting in them losing their investments.\n\nAs the purpose of the audits was for the protection of clients money, there was sufficient proximity to hold that PW owed them a duty of care, and were accordingly ordered to pay damages.\n"}
{"id": "9285138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9285138", "title": "Reasonable accommodation", "text": "Reasonable accommodation\n\nA reasonable accommodation is an adjustment made in a system to accommodate or make fair the same system for an individual based on a proven need. That need can vary. Accommodations can be religious, physical, mental or emotional, academic, or employment related and are often mandated by law. Each country has its own system of reasonable accommodations. The United Nations use this term in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, saying refusal to make accommodation results in discrimination. It defines a \"reasonable accommodation\" as:\n\nIn Canada equality rights, as set out in provincial and federal anti-discrimination laws and in section 15 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, require that accommodation be made to various minorities. (The origin of the term \"reasonable accommodation\" in Canadian law is found in its labour law jurisprudence, specifically \"Ontario (Human Rights Commission) v Simpsons-Sears Ltd\", [1985] 2 SCR 536, and is argued to be the obligation of employers to change some general rules for certain employees, under the condition that this does not cause \"undue hardship\".)\n\nIn Quebec, under the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and the provincial charter of human rights, politicians engaged in \"values\" clarifications on accommodation from at least 2007. In that time, various ideologies attempted to impose onto Quebecers definitions of values, without consensus or even legislative success. The question on what was and will be the national identity has been contested, such as the court decision on the wearing of the Sikh kirpan in \"Multani v. Commission scolaire Marguerite‑Bourgeoys.\"\n\nThe municipal council of the town of Hérouxville passed a \"code of conduct\" for residents. It provided details of expectations of behaviour, and defined practices of other countries that were not acceptable in the town, such as stoning women or burning them alive, and female genital mutilation. The code of conduct also explained common practices in Canadian culture. It said that carrying a weapon to school (a reference to the Sikh ceremonial kirpan), covering one's face (some particular forms of the Muslim veil), and making accommodation for prayer in public schools would not be permitted. It attests that \"Our people eat to nourish the body, not the soul,\" in reference to Jewish and Muslim dietary laws, and that health-care professionals \"do not have to ask permission to perform blood transfusions.\"\n\nThis code of conduct was developed as the town and province absorbed more immigrants from other cultures. Other cultural questions arose. In 2007 a YMCA set up clouded windows to shield ultra-Orthodox Jews who had complained that youngsters could see girls and women in gym attire. There have been questions about whether voters are allowed to fill out and submit ballots while clothed in a niqab or burka, which can hide identity. A Muslim spokesman said that women are always required to show identity for public purposes, so it was a question raised unnecessarily.\n\nWhile most residents in Quebec have identified as Catholic on surveys, the province has become increasingly secular, with declining rates of church attendance. The provincial government has worked to reach an accommodation with the Roman Catholic Church on guidelines for conversion or disposal of underused churches. The church has allowed local parishes to work with municipalities to develop the buildings as community centres, for example, rather than for private condominium construction.\n\nIn 2007, Benjamin Rubin, a forward with the Gatineau Olympiques ice hockey team, refused to play several key matches because they fell on a Jewish holiday. Some claimed the Jews would end up forcing the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League to reschedule all their matches on Fridays and Saturdays. Rubin and the Olympiques came to an agreement, and \"he will only miss a handful of games.\" He has since left the team.\n\nIn 2007 Elections Canada ruled that Muslim women wearing the niqab (veil) or burka would be allowed to vote in all upcoming national elections, by-elections and referendums without showing their faces to an Elections Canada official. The same policy applies to all Canadians under federal Bill C-31, in that photo identification is not strictly required if two other pieces of acceptable official identification are provided, or another voter vouches for them. The proclamation created social animosity towards Muslims in Quebec. Premier Jean Charest of Quebec described this as a bad decision. He noted that Quebec's National Assembly had voted to forbid Muslim women from voting if they would not reveal their faces as a confirmation of identity.\n\nThe national Conservative government challenged Elections Canada to review this decision. The federal Liberals and the Bloc Québécois also requested such a reversal, to demand that all voters be required to show their faces in order to vote, even those whose faces are normally covered for religious reasons. They joined other federal and provincial politicians from Quebec who attacked the decision.\n\nSarah Elgazzar, an advocate for the Canadian Council on American–Islamic Relations in Montreal, declared that it is improbable that very many Muslim women will have hidden faces when voting. Elgazzar insisted that women using niqabs usually take them off to distinguish themselves and do not sport them for photo identification. This fact was echoed by Salam Elmenyawi of the Muslim Council of Montreal.\n\nThere was extensive coverage of related issues in Quebec's news media in 2006 and 2007. Some analysts attributed this more to competition among media than a measure of citizen concern. The premier of Quebec declared several non-negotiable values, such as \"the equality of women and men; the primacy of French; the separation between the state and religion\".\n\nThe conservative political party Action démocratique du Québec (ADQ) appeared to gain support from these debates. It formed the official opposition in the provincial legislature for one term from 2007 to 2008, until the increasing prominence of the global economic crisis relegated reasonable accommodation to an issue of less importance.\n\nA 2006 examination from Statistics Canada demonstrated that Quebec had the highest newcomer unemployment rate in Canada. The newest immigrants endured an unemployment ratio of 17.8 per cent in 2006, or almost three times the 6.3 per cent ratio of native-born help. In contrast, joblessness among current newcomers in Ontario was 11 per cent contrasted with 4.4 per cent among the Canadian born. In British Columbia, the numbers were 9.5 per cent and 3.7 per cent, respectively.\n\nThe study's coauthor, Danielle Zietsma, was reported to have cautioned that she and her colleagues would need some time to conduct the analyses necessary to explain the basis of these findings. The \"Montreal Gazette\" columnist Jay Bryan suggested that Quebec was exceptional in the degree to which it imposed hurdles on new immigrants seeking employment in the province, including \"the devaluation of allegedly inadequate foreign credentials, language tests that have little to do with professional performance, and 'Canadian experience' requirements that serve as an all-purpose excuse to lock out job applicants who don't already have a job.\" However, the column reported that the study had found similar numbers of surveyed immigrants had indicated that the demand for Canadian experience (26 per cent) or foreign credentialing and work experience recognition problems (21 per cent) as principal barriers to employment.\n\nFormer leader of the Parti Québécois André Boisclair noted, \"We're not talking about reasonable accommodation [if] it has nothing to do with public services\", Boisclair said. At the same time, Boisclair blamed Premier Jean Charest for pandering to Quebecers who balk at adjustments made for immigrants in civil society. Charest declined to defend them when girls wearing hijab were prohibited from soccer and tae kwon do, and when prejudiced remarks were offered about Jews.\n\nMario Dumont, leader of the Action démocratique du Québec (ADQ) said in an interview in \"La Presse\" that Quebec needs more immigration for economic and demographic reasons, but that he believes that Quebec had met its limits of immigrant acculturation, and that any further increase in rates of immigration would create ghettos. (At present, the province accepts a smaller percentage of newcomers than elsewhere in Canada.)\nHe criticized Charest for a plan to raise such levels when the Liberal government has cut funds for integration of newcomers into French culture. \"We're a linguistic minority...and immigrants need francization\", Dumont said. \"It's quite a challenge.\"\n\nThen Parti Québécois leader Pauline Marois said that Quebec should assume all control over its immigration, not the 60 per cent that it has now under a bilateral agreement with the government of Canada. She also said the province should make the message clear to immigrants that Quebec is a francophone \"state\", not officially bilingual as are the federal government and Quebec's neighbouring province New Brunswick.\n\nMarois said that Quebec is in need of more immigrants, to offset a low birth rate for future labour needs. She further believes that Quebec is a francophone state in which the rights of the anglophone minority are respected, and where all the inhabitants live in French. Charest criticized his political adversaries in the provincial legislature, and blamed them for encouraging \"intolerance\" in the continuing controversy. He published an open letter in regional dailies, saying he is worried the province's image of openness will diminish outside Quebec.\n\nDumont's statements about immigration, he said, led to the passing of a code of conduct by the town of Hérouxville that notified Muslims that face veils or stoning women would not be accepted there.\n\nPremier Jean Charest, citing several instances of \"unreasonable\" accommodation, advised the Lieutenant Governor of Quebec to appoint a two-man commission in February 2007, to investigate the issue of reasonable accommodation, and report back by 31 March 2008. The formal title for the commission is the \"Consultation Commission on Accommodation Practices Related to Cultural Differences\", and it is sometimes called the \"Bouchard–Taylor Commission\". Its commissioners are professors Charles Taylor, a well-known federalist and philosopher, and Gérard Bouchard, a historian and sociologist. Bouchard said in an interview that \"sovereignty\" was the solution to calm Franco-Quebecers' cultural insecurity. Co-chair Taylor stated, however, that Quebecers need to demonstrate the \"openness and generosity of spirit\" that majorities should have towards minorities.\n\nThe commission conducted hearings in various Quebec regions. The committee listened to individuals, organizations, and so-called experts on Quebec identity, religion, and integration of cultural communities (minority groups). Before formal proceedings began, Bouchard and Taylor said they heard in focus groups across the province that there was insecurity among Quebec's traditional ethnic French population. They believed that hearings would help with educating the public; for instance, they thought the perception of Muslim influence was higher among some groups than is justified by data. Taylor underlined that Quebecers need to show an \"openness and generosity of spirit\" for 'cultural communities. As well, the report recommended that accommodation be made in public schools to allow students who want to wear religious attire in class, such as the hijab, kippah or turban, to do so.\n\nThe Bouchard–Taylor report recommended that judges, Crown prosecutors, prison guards and police officers refrain from wearing any religious attire or symbols. \"We believe that a majority of Quebecers accept that a uniform prohibition applying to all government employees regardless of the nature of their position is excessive, but want those employees who occupy positions that embody at the highest level the necessary neutrality of the state ... to impose on themselves a form of circumspection concerning the expression of their religious convictions\", Bouchard and Taylor wrote.\n\nThe commission also recommended that the crucifix in the National Assembly, placed above the Speaker's chair by Premier Maurice Duplessis, be removed to another part of the building. This is a recommendation that successive governments have rejected.\n\nIn 2017, In the aftermath of the Charter of Quebecois Values debate, Taylor stated that he no longer supports that opinion, and said it was misinterpreted by many politicians. The Bouchard–Taylor report deliberately did not include teachers, civil servants and health-care professionals from those that should be forbidden to wear religious symbols.\n\nIn the United States, federal law requires that reasonable accommodations be made for employment, education, housing, courts, and public venues.\n\nThe Americans With Disabilities Act, known as ADA, was signed into law on 26 July 1990. It carried forward material from Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. 'A reasonable accommodation' is defined by the US Department of Justice as \"any modification or adjustment to a job or the work environment that will enable a qualified applicant or employee with a disability to participate in the application process or to perform essential job functions. Reasonable accommodation also includes adjustments to assure that a qualified individual with a disability has rights and privileges in employment equal to those of employees without disabilities.\"\n\nIn September 2012, Home Depot company agreed to pay $100,000 and furnish other relief to settle a disability discrimination lawsuit filed by the US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, for the alleged failure to provide a reasonable accommodation for a cashier with cancer at its Towson, Maryland, store, and then for purportedly firing her because of her condition.\n\nTitle II of the ADA provides that \"no qualified individual with a disability shall, by reason of such disability, be excluded from participation in or be denied the benefits of the services, programs, or activities of a public entity, or be subject to discrimination by any such entity\". State and local governments must provide reasonable accommodations to ensure such access, unless a fundamental alteration would result.\n\nTitle III of the ADA requires private businesses open to the public and commercial facilities to provide reasonable accommodations to people with disabilities to ensure that they have equal access to goods and services.\n\nUnder Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, codified in the United States Code at 42 USC §§ 3601–3619, and commonly known as the Fair Housing Act, virtually all housing providers must make reasonable accommodations in their rules, policies, practices, or services under certain circumstances. A reasonable accommodation must be granted when such an accommodation is necessary to afford a prospective or existing tenant with a disability an opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling (including but not limited to apartments, single family homes, and other types of private and public housing) to the same extent as a person who does not have that disability. The Fair Housing Act covers \"dwellings\", and in many situations that term encompasses such non-traditional housing as homeless shelters and college dormitories. It bears noting that in regard to larger dwellings such as apartment buildings, the right to a reasonable accommodation under the Fair Housing Act requires that housing providers grant a requested reasonable accommodation that is necessary to enable a disabled tenant to enjoy an indoor or outdoor common area to the same extent as a non-disabled tenant enjoys such areas.\n\nIn regard to reasonable accommodations, there is no requirement that a housing provider initiate the reasonable accommodation process; the Fair Housing Act contemplates that a tenant will approach his or her landlord with a request for a change in the landlord's policies that will reasonably accommodate the tenant's disability. For example, a prospective or actual tenant whose disability requires him to use crutches may request a reasonable accommodation in the form of an assigned parking space close to the entrance of his or her apartment building. If the disability is of a kind covered by the Fair Housing Act, and there is a genuine relationship between the requested accommodation and the disability, and granting the reasonable accommodation would not fundamentally alter the nature of the landlord's operations or impose an undue financial or administrative burden on the landlord, then the landlord must grant the requested reasonable accommodation or else find himself in violation of the Fair Housing Act and liable for substantial civil money penalties as well as payment to the disabled person for the injury suffered by him or her.\n\nThe Fair Housing Act is enforced by the US Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), whose regulations governing reasonable accommodations are found at 24 CFR § 100.204. Sometimes it is easy to tell when (for example) a tenant has a disability and the tenant's reasonable accommodation request must be granted; other times it is not quite so apparent that a tenant suffers from a recognized disability. But a housing provider has an obligation to engage in an interactive process in order to honestly try to figure out whether the requested accommodation is reasonable and must be granted.\n\nThe Department of Housing and Urban Development and the US Department of Justice have issued a joint statement to provide guidance on the concept of reasonable accommodation. Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (including the amendments made by the Americans with Disabilities Amendments Act of 2008), overlaps with the Fair Housing Act in its coverage of public housing. As noted on HUD's website: \"Public housing was established to provide decent and safe rental housing for eligible low-income families, the elderly, and persons with disabilities.\" Over a million US households live in public housing.\n\nThe laws of England, Wales, and Scotland require employers to make reasonable accommodations for disabled employees, initially under the Disability Discrimination Act 1995, and now under the Equality Act 2010. Failure to do so can give rise to a complaint by an employee to an employment tribunal.\n\n"}
{"id": "56718842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56718842", "title": "Reformist Left", "text": "Reformist Left\n\nThe Reformist Left is a political term coined by Richard Rorty in his 1998 book \"Achieving Our Country\", in reference to the mainstream Left in the United States (though the term may be applied elsewhere) in the first two thirds of the 20th century:\nRichard Rorty's purpose in defining the Reformist Left is breaking away from the prevailing notion of the Left being divided between New and Old Left, which left no room for anyone but Marxists and Neo-Marxists:\nRorty thus includes in the Reformist Left all that have, at one time or another, advanced reforms—not revolutions—toward social justice:...\n... while excluding both Marxists...\n... and Neo-Marxists:\nRorty traces the origins of the Reformist Left in the United States back to William James and Herbert Croly, in their pragmatism, egalitarianism and faith in democracy:\nInspired by James and Croly, Walt Whitman and John Dewey, further fleshed out their call into a vision:\nAnd that secularism in Whitman and Dewey, Rorty attributes to Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's humanism:\n\nDewey, in turn, inspired many of the reformers that followed him:\n\nRorty concurs with Todd Gitlin that the hegemony of reformism within the Left in the Unites States came to halt in 1964: \n\nRorty's 1998 book \"Achieving Our Country\" was widely quoted in the mainstream and alternative media for its prophetic warnings materialized in the United States' 2016 presidential election:\n\nRorty's book, more than simply a historical and philosophical account of the Reformist Left, is itself a manifesto toward its revival:\nWhile Rorty focuses his definition of the Reformist Left in the realm of the American Left, his characterization sits in a much larger narrative, extending far beyond the confines of the United States:\n"}
{"id": "2936102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2936102", "title": "START III", "text": "START III\n\nSTART III (Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty) was a proposed bi-lateral nuclear disarmament treaty between the United States and the Russian Federation. It meant to drastically reduce the deployed nuclear weapons arsenals of both countries and to continue the weapons reduction efforts that had taken place in the START I and START II negotiations. The framework for negotiations of the treaty began with talks in Helsinki between President Bill Clinton and President Boris Yeltsin in 1997. However, negotiations broke down and the treaty was never signed.\n\nProposed basic elements of the treaty included:\n\nThe talks faced a number of obstacles. The refusal of the Russian Duma to ratify the START II treaty delayed the start of formal negotiations by more than two years after Yeltsin and Clinton completed the initial framework discussions in 1997. Ratification had been delayed due to NATO airstrikes against Afghanistan, Sudan, and Serbia, along with Russia's opposition to the eastward expansion of NATO, and Russian opposition to America's plans to build a limited missile defense system (which would have required changes to or the US withdrawal from the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty). \n\nVery little progress was made towards completing negotiations on START III. Attempts at negotiating START III were eventually abandoned and the US and Russia instead agreed to the Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty (SORT) or Moscow Treaty.\n\nSTART III plays a large role in the 1998 video game, \"Metal Gear Solid\". In the game a nuclear terrorist attack is scheduled on the date of the signing of START III which is supposed to take place at the end of February 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4214828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4214828", "title": "Safety Provisions (Building) Convention, 1937", "text": "Safety Provisions (Building) Convention, 1937\n\nSafety Provisions (Building) Convention, 1937 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1937:\nConsidering that building work gives rise to serious accident risks which it is necessary to reduce both on humanitarian and on economic grounds, and\n\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to safety provisions for workers in the building industry with reference to scaffolding and hoisting machinery...\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1494611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1494611", "title": "Scot and lot", "text": "Scot and lot\n\nScot and lot is a phrase common in the records of English medieval boroughs, referring to local rights and obligations.\n\nThe term \"scot\" comes from the Old English word \"sceat\", meaning a sceat, an ordinary coin in Anglo-Saxon times, equivalent to the later penny. In Anglo-Saxon times, a payment was levied locally to cover the cost of establishing drainage, and embankments, of low-lying land, and observing them to ensure they remain secure. This payment was typically a sceat, so the levy itself gradually became to be called \"sceat\". In burghs, \"sceat\" was levied to cover maintenance of the town walls and defences.\n\nIn Norman times, under the influence of the word \"escot\", in Old French, the vowel changed, and the term became \"scot\". In 19th century Kent and Sussex, low-lying farmland was still being called scot-land. \"Scot\", though, gradually became a general term for local levies; a person who was not liable for the levy, but received its benefits, \"got off 'scot-free'.\"\n\n\"Lot\" means \"portion\"/\"share\", hence \"lottery\", and \"allotment\". The phrase \"scot and lot\" thus meant the local levies someone paid, and the share they received of local provisions; more generally, it meant \"rights and obligations\", in respect of local government.\n\nParliament had evolved from the king's baronial court, with the commons being populated by representatives of the landholders who were too minor to call in person. Burghs were somewhat outside the feudal system, making their franchise ambiguous. Before the mid 19th century, burghs varied in their choice of franchise. In some burghs, the franchise was set at \"scot and lot\"; that is, people were only permitted to vote if they were liable for the local levies. \n\nIn mediaeval times, this could mean dozens of people, and by the 19th century tens of thousands of people could qualify in a single \"scot and lot\" burgh. In Gatten, however, only two people qualified under \"scot and lot\"; since burghs received 2 MPs, this meant that each MP for Gatten represented exactly 1 voter. The quirks of the existing system, such as Gatton, was one of the reasons for the 1832 Great Reform Act.\n\nA cognate term, \"skat\", exists in the udal law of Orkney and Shetland.\n\n"}
{"id": "49288735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49288735", "title": "Section 839(a) of title 10 United States Code § 925 - Article 125.", "text": "Section 839(a) of title 10 United States Code § 925 - Article 125.\n\nSection 839(a) of title 10 United States Code § 925 - Article 125. is a punitive article of the Uniform Code of Military Justice.\n\nOn June 4, 1920, the United States Congress approved a modified Articles of War. Article 93 was changed to make the act of sodomy a crime in itself, separate from the offense of assault with intent to commit sodomy. The law went into effect on February 4, 1921. From February 4, 1921 to December 26, 2013, sodomy was prohibited in the United States military. Those found guilty of violating it were punished as a court-martial may direct.\n\nOn May 5, 1950, the UCMJ was passed by Congress and was signed into law by President Harry S. Truman, and became effective on May 31, 1951. Article 125 forbids sodomy among all military personnel, defining it as \"any person subject to this chapter who engages in unnatural carnal copulation with another person of the same or opposite sex or with an animal is guilty of sodomy. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete the offence.\"\n\nIn the aftermath of the 2003 United States Supreme Court ruling in \"Lawrence v. Texas\", the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces ruled that the decision applied to Article 125, severely narrowing the previous ban on sodomy. In both \"United States v. Stirewalt\" and \"United States v. Marcum\", the court ruled that the \"conduct [consensual sodomy] falls within the liberty interest identified by the Supreme Court,\" but went on to say that despite the application of \"Lawrence\" to the military, Article 125 can still be upheld in cases where there are \"factors unique to the military environment\" that would place the conduct \"outside any protected liberty interest recognized in \"Lawrence\".\" Examples of such factors include rape, fraternization, public sexual behavior, or any other factors that would adversely affect good order and discipline. Convictions for consensual sodomy have been overturned in military courts under \"Lawrence\" in both \"United States v. Meno\" and \"United States v. Bullock\".\n\nOn December 26, 2013, President Barack Obama signed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 into law, replacing the sodomy prohibition provision with forcible sodomy and bestiality prohibition provision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24633526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24633526", "title": "Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics", "text": "Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics\n\nThe Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics (SCCE) is a nonprofit, individual membership association which provides resources for ethics and compliance professionals from various industries. It serves over 5,500 members through publications, education programs, conferences and professional networking, including an online social network called SCCEnet, which has over 14,000 registered users. SCCE also helps individuals become Certified Compliance and Ethics Professionals.\n\nThe first National Symposium on Corporate Responsibility: Compliance & Ethics Programs was held on November 21-22, 2002, sponsored by the Health Care Compliance Association (HCCA) in association with Microsoft Corporation in Redmond, Washington. The conference drew 100 attendees from some of the top corporations in the nation including DuPont, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Amazon.com, Boeing, Starbucks, the University of Texas and many more. The keynote speaker was William C. Powers Jr. who served as Chairman of the Special Investigative Committee of the Board of Directors of Enron Corporation.\n\nRequests for a second Symposium were answered in 2003. More than 250 attendees filled the room to hear speakers such as James Sheehan, Associate United States Attorney for Civil Programs; Ron James, CEO, Center for Ethical Business Cultures; Honorable Michael E. Horowitz, Commissioner, United States Sentencing Commission; and Colleen Rowley, Special Agent, Federal Bureau of Investigation. Their mission was clear, there needed to be a forum for business professionals working in the compliance and ethics field.\n\nThe Compliance and Ethics Institute now attracts approximately 1500 attendees annually and the SCCE has grown to over 5,500 members.\n\nThe SCCE offers publications and live training to its members. These resources cover the range of challenges faced by compliance professionals in managing compliance and ethics programs. The SCCE addresses regulatory topics such as sexual harassment, antitrust/anti-competition, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act/anti-bribery, export control and more, as well as the broad challenge of managing a program designed to meet the United States Federal Sentencing Guidelines definition of an effective compliance program. SCCE’s members enjoy access to a repository of over 4,000 electronic documents including white papers and government memorandum.\n\nThe SCCE worked with the Compliance Certification Board (CCB) to develop an examination certification in compliance and ethics. To date over 1200 people have obtained the Certified Compliance and Ethics Professional Certification (CCEP). The CCEP Fellow and CCEP International certifications has also been added.\n\nOn August 29, 2007, The Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics (SCCE) adopted a Code of Professional Ethics for Compliance and Ethics Professionals.\n\nThe Code’s purpose is to provide guidance and rules to all Compliance and Ethics Professionals (CEP) in the performance of their professional responsibilities.\nIn creating the Code of Professional Ethics, the SCCE establishes both overarching principles to guide compliance officials and rules of conduct, which represent specific standards that prescribe the minimum level of professional conduct expected of CEPs.\n"}
{"id": "5678468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5678468", "title": "Testamentary trust", "text": "Testamentary trust\n\nA testamentary trust (sometimes referred to as a will trust or trust under will) is a trust which arises upon the death of the testator, and which is specified in his or her will. A will may contain more than one testamentary trust, and may address all or any portion of the estate.\n\nTestamentary trusts are distinguished from \"inter vivos\" trusts, which are created during the settlor's lifetime.\n\nThere are four parties involved in a testamentary trust:\n\nA testamentary trust is a legal arrangement created as specified in a person's will, and is occasioned by the death of that person. It is created to address any estate accumulated during that person's lifetime or generated as a result of a postmortem lawsuit, such as a settlement in a survival claim, or the proceeds from a life insurance policy held on the settlor. A trust can be created to oversee such assets. A trustee is appointed to direct the trust until a set time when the trust expires, such as when minor beneficiaries reach a specified age or accomplish a deed such as completing a set educational goal or achieving a specified matrimonial status.\n\nFor a testamentary trust, as the settlor is deceased, he or she will generally not have any influence over the trustee's exercise of discretion, although in some jurisdictions it is common for the testator to leave a letter of wishes for the trustee. In practical terms testamentary trusts tend to be driven more by the needs of the beneficiaries (particularly infant beneficiaries) than by tax considerations, which are the usual considerations in \"inter vivos\" trusts.\n\nIf a testamentary trust fails, the property usually will be held on resulting trusts for the testator's residuary estate. Some famous English trust law cases were on behalf of the residuary legatees under a will seeking to have testamentary trusts declared void so as to inherit the trust property. An infamous example is \"Re Diplock\" [1951] Ch 253, which resulted in the suicide of one of the trustees who was personally liable to account for trust funds that had been disbursed for what he thought were perfectly valid charitable trusts).\n\n\n\nDue to the potential problems, lawyers often advise that a \"revocable living trust\" or \"inter vivos trust\" be created instead of a testamentary trust. However, a testamentary trust may be a better solution if the expected estate is small compared to potential life-insurance settlement amounts.\n"}
{"id": "13994229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13994229", "title": "Texas Monthly, Inc. v. Bullock", "text": "Texas Monthly, Inc. v. Bullock\n\nTexas Monthly v. Bullock, 489 U.S. 1 (1989), was a case brought before the US Supreme Court in November 1988. The case (initiated by the publishers of \"Texas Monthly\", a well-known general-interest magazine in Texas) was to test the legality of a Texas statute that exempted religious publications from paying state sales tax.\n\nThe Court, in a 6-3 decision lacking a majority, overturned an appellate court's decision that the exemption was constitutional and remanded the case.\n\nPrior to October 2, 1984, Texas exempted from sales tax \"magazine subscriptions running half a year or longer and entered as second class mail.\" The exemption applied to any subscription regardless of its content.\n\nBeginning on that date, it repealed the exemption (it would later reinstate it in its entirety from October 1, 1987). However, from 1984 to 1987, it maintained an exemption for \"periodicals published or distributed by a religious faith consisting entirely of writings promulgating the teaching of the faith, along with books consisting solely of writings sacred to a religious faith.\"\n\nThe publishers of \"Texas Monthly\", a popular and well-known general-interest magazine that did not qualify for the exemption, challenged the exemption by paying over $400,000 in sales taxes for 1985 under protest and filing suit in Travis County District Court to recover the taxes paid. It agreed by striking down the statute as a violation of both the Establishment Clause and the Free Press Clause and ordering the State of Texas to refund the taxes paid and interest.\n\nHowever, the Third Texas Court of Appeals reversed in a 2-1 decision. It determined that the tax exemption met the tests required under \"Lemon v. Kurtzman\" (1971), and so did not violate the Establishment Clause. In addition, the Court of Appeals determined that the tax exemption did not violate the Free Press Clause, as only a few publications were qualified.\n\nJustice Brennan, Justice Marshall, and Justice Stevens based their plurality opinion in the Establishment Clause: \"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion.\" As had been decided in earlier cases, Congress cannot establish a religion or even pass a law with the purpose of advancing religion in respect to non-religion.\n\nThe lack of a sales tax on religious literature was in effect a subsidy to the religious writers. If the religious writers did not pay a tax, then a secular writer would have to. That would in essence force tax payers, religious or not, to pay for a subsidy to religions. They held that had the statute been broader, including charities, for example, it would have been constitutional. Justice Brennan recognized the argument of Texas that taxing the publications may inhibit their ability to function to some extent thereby going against the Free Exercise Clause which states continuing from the above clause \"or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.\" However, Justice Brennan argued that if all American people were required to pay the tax it did not unduly burden religion to pay the tax nor \"prohibit\" them from exercising as they wished.\n\nJustice White concurred in the judgment but argued that under the Court's prior precedent in \"Arkansas Writers' Project v. Ragland\" (1987), the Texas Law violated the Press Clause by taxing \"Texas Monthly\" but exempting other publishers solely on the basis of the religious content of their publications.\n\nJustice Blackmun concurred in the judgment and wrote an opinion, joined by Justice O'Connor, disagreeing with both the plurality and the dissenting opinions. He argued that the opinion does not recognize enough the Free Exercise Clause, and the dissent does not recognize the Establishment Clause. He argued that to understand the case, both clauses must be seen along with the Press Clause, which states \"Congress shall make no law... abridging the freedom of speech.\"\n\nWhen religious writings are given certain perks like a pass on sales tax, the freedom of speech of the other writers is inhibited because they have to pay sales tax. Free speech is not inhibited enough to be an issue and so one must decide where the line is between the Establishment Clause and the Free Exercise Clause. He argued that had the law been written to include other philosophical literature encouraging morality, it may have stood, but when it expressly focused on religion the Establishment Clause had been violated: \"In this case, by confining the tax exemption exclusively to the sale of religious publications, Texas engaged in preferential support for the communication of religious messages.\"\n\nJustice Scalia wrote a dissenting opinion, joined by Chief Justice Rehnquist and Justice Kennedy, refuting the arguments of Justices Brennan and Blackmun. He extensively cited \"Walz v. Tax Commission of the City of New York\" (1970), where the Court found a New York law allowing religions and other non-profit organizations to not pay property tax. He argued that even though it included non-profit organizations, the Court had ruled specifically in favor of the exemptions for religions stating in Walz: \"We find it unnecessary to justify the tax exemption of the social welfare services or 'good works' that some churches perform.\" He stated that though a tax exemption is similar economically to a subsidy, when discussing the Establishment Clause, they are different as found in \"Walz\".\n\nAlso, a line must be drawn between the Establishment Clause and the Free Exercise Clause but sees more room between them. He argued that just because a law is not necessary for the Free Exercise Clause does not mean that it is unconstitutional on Establishment Clause grounds. He also notes that it passes all three prongs of the \"Lemon\" test by not overly entangling the church and state.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7551801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7551801", "title": "Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977", "text": "Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977\n\nThe Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 (c 50) is an Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom which regulates contracts by restricting the operation and legality of some contract terms. It extends to nearly all forms of contract and one of its most important functions is limiting the applicability of disclaimers of liability. The terms extend to both actual contract terms and notices that are seen to constitute a contractual obligation.\n\nThe Act renders terms excluding or limiting liability ineffective or subject to reasonableness, depending on the nature of the obligation purported to be excluded and whether the party purporting to exclude or limit business liability, acting against a \"consumer\".\n\nIt is normally used in conjunction with the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (Statutory Instrument 1999 No. 2083), as well as the Sale of Goods Act 1979 and the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982.\n\nThe Law Commission and the Scottish Law Commission have recommended that the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 and the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 should be replaced by a more unified and coherent regime.\n\nNegligence. s2(1), liability for negligence occasioning death or personal injury cannot be excluded.\n\nManufacturers' guarantee. s5(1), loss arising from (a) defective goods or (b) negligence of distributor; cannot be excluded where goods are \"of a type ordinarily supplied for private use or consumption.\"\n\nSale of Goods\n\nTerms governed by the Consumer Protection Act 1987.\n\nThey are also governed (since 2007) by the Occupiers Liability Act 1984.\n\nNegligence. s2(2), exclusion of liability for all types of negligence (other than for death or personal injury which is banned) must satisfy the requirement of \"reasonableness\".\n\nContractual Liability. s3, This applies against a party that deals on standard written terms or where the other party deals as a \"consumer\". Any exclusion by that party for liability arising from a breach committed by that party under the same contract (s3(2)(a)) or performance under a contract which is substantially or totally different of that which is reasonably expected of him (s(3)(b)) shall be void except insofar as it satisfies the requirement of reasonableness.\n\nIndemnity clauses. s4, A party dealing as a \"consumer\" cannot contract to indemnify a third party on behalf of the other party, except insofar as it satisfies the requirement of \"reasonableness\".\n\nSale of Goods. s6(3), Implied terms as to description, quality and sample (Sale of Goods Act 1979 ss 13-15) may only be reasonably excluded where neither party is dealing as a \"consumer\".\n\nMisrepresentation. s8, substitutes the Misrepresentation Act 1967 s3. Under that post-1979 section, an exclusion of liability for misrepresentation must satisfy the requirement of reasonableness.\n\nBusiness. s 1(3), The Act only applies to \"liability for breach of obligations or duties arising (a) from things done or to be done by a person in the course of a business (whether his own business or another's); or (b) from the occupation of premises used for business purposes of the occupier\". s14, Includes any government department.\n\nConsumer. s 12, A party deals as a consumer if\n\nSection 11 provides some guidance but most development has been in common law.\n\nSchedule 2 gives guidelines specifically to ss 6(3), 7(3), 7(4).\n\nCommon Law\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48436823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48436823", "title": "United Front Against Fascism", "text": "United Front Against Fascism\n\nThe United Front Against Fascism (UFAF) was an anti-fascist conference organized by the Black Panther Party and held in Oakland, California, from July 18 to 21, 1969.\n\nThe May 31, 1969 issue of \"The Black Panther\" called for a \"Revolutionary Conference for a United Front Against Fascism,\" to be held in Oakland in July of that year. The announcement drew links between the killing of James Rector and the imprisonment of Huey Newton, and outlined the purpose of the conference: it would develop a political programme representing the \"poor, black, oppressed workers and people of America\", involving strategies for community control of policing, the release of political prisoners, the expulsion of the military from college and university campuses, and community self-defense.\n\nAround 5,000 people responded to the call, including members of the Communist Party USA, the Peace and Freedom Party, the Progressive Labor Party, the Red Guard Party, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, Students for a Democratic Society (SDS), the Third World Liberation Front, the Young Lords, the Young Patriots Organization, the Young Socialist Alliance and various groups associated with the women's liberation movement. Events took place in the Oakland Auditorium and DeFremery Park. Delegates included Asian Americans, Latinos and other people of color, but the majority in attendance were white. Members of SDS were ejected from the auditorium for \"disruptive behavior,\" and the following day distributed pamphlets which accused organizers of excluding them.\n\nSpeeches were given on the first day of the congress. The second day was devoted to workshops on issues around fascism, gender, workers and students, political prisoners, health, religion, state repression of political dissent and policing. Speakers included Bob Avakian and Jeff Jones of SDS; Elaine Brown, who presented a letter from Ericka Huggins who was at that time incarcerated; the politician Ron Dellums; and the lawyers Charles Garry and William Kunstler, the latter of whom discussed the 1967 Plainfield, New Jersey riots and argued for the legality and necessity of defensive violence. Following the congress the National Committees to Combat Fascism, a national network that sought community control of police forces, was established.\n\nIn 2017 the historian Robyn C. Spencer connected the UFAF to contemporary antifascism in the United States, and argued that The history of the UFAF demonstrates that discussions about fascism in the US are nothing new. It shifts the discussion of fascism away from an American exceptionalist terrain where the US is compared with Europe and government structures or despotic leaders are analyzed and instead demonstrates the value of unearthing manifestations of fascism in the lived experiences of Black people in the US.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11818845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11818845", "title": "War trophy", "text": "War trophy\n\nIn ancient Greece and Rome, military victories were commemorated with a display of captured arms and standards. A trophy (from the Greek tropaion) was originally a war memorial assembled from such items on a battlefield. The Roman triumph also displayed these items as well as cultural objects, which later came to be called war trophies. Body parts of slain enemies have sometimes served as trophies since antiquity, in a practice called human trophy collecting. The recovery of Roman eagles taken as trophies by enemy forces sometimes inspired years of added warfare. \n\nIn more recent times, it has been common for soldiers to return home with souvenirs, such as enemy weapons and flags, while larger military items captured in battle, particularly weaponry such as machine guns and artillery pieces, became the property of the state to which the soldiers responsible for the capture belonged.\n\nIn the 20th century, the victorious alliance states removed large quantities of property, including cultural objects. After the First World War, the Treaty of Versailles authorized the removal of large amounts of property from Germany, which it termed \"reparations\".\n\nAfter the Second World War, the Potsdam Conference authorized the removal of certain property from Germany, such as the merchant marine fleet. Germany, during the war, had removed large quantities of property from the countries that it had occupied. In some cases, for example the Soviet \"trophy brigades\", official looting was euphemised as the taking of \"trophies\".\n\nArticle 56 of the Hague Convention of 1907, stated:\n\nHowever, the article was not much respected during the remainder of the century.\n\nIn 1954, a further convention was signed at the Hague: \"Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict\", and two protocols have strengthened its force.\n\nMany works of art moved from their pre-war locations during the turmoils of the 20th century. UNESCO, the United Nations agency responsible for culture has been seeking to resolve issues relating to cultural objects displaced in connection with the Second World War. However, the conference in Spring 2007 failed to reach a consensus on a draft non-binding declaration.\n"}
{"id": "1395112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1395112", "title": "Watergate Seven", "text": "Watergate Seven\n\nThe Watergate Seven has come to refer to two different groups of people, but both fall in the context of the Watergate scandal. First, it can refer to the five men caught June 17, 1972, burglarizing the Democratic National Committee's headquarters in the Watergate Hotel, along with their two handlers, E. Howard Hunt and G. Gordon Liddy, who were Nixon campaign aides. All seven were tried before Judge John Sirica in January 1973. \n\nThe second use of Watergate Seven refers to seven advisors and aides of United States President Richard M. Nixon who were indicted by a grand jury on March 1, 1974, for their role in the Watergate scandal. The grand jury also named Nixon as an unindicted conspirator. The indictments marked the first time in U.S. history that a president was so named.\n\nThe period leading up to the trial of the first Watergate Seven began on January 8, 1973. The term \"Watergate Seven\" was coined a few months later, in April 1973, by American lawyer, politician, and political commentator Ed Koch, who, in response to U.S. Senator Lowell P. Weicker Jr.'s indicating that one of the men in Watergate bugging case had been ordered in the spring of 1972 to keep certain Senators and Representatives under surveillance, posted a sign on the door of his United States Congress office saying, \"These premises were surveilled by the Watergate Seven. Watch yourself\".\n\nThe seven advisors and aides later indicted in 1974 were:\n\n"}
{"id": "8205654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8205654", "title": "Whistleblower Protection Act", "text": "Whistleblower Protection Act\n\nThe Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989, 5 U.S.C. 2302(b)(8)-(9), Pub.L. 101-12 as amended, is a United States federal law that protects federal whistleblowers who work for the government and report the possible existence of an activity constituting a violation of law, rules, or regulations, or mismanagement, gross waste of funds, abuse of authority or a substantial and specific danger to public health and safety. A federal agency violates the Whistleblower Protection Act if agency authorities take (or threaten to take) retaliatory personnel action against any employee or applicant because of disclosure of information by that employee or applicant.\n\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court, in the case of Garcetti v. Ceballos, 04-473, ruled in 2006 that government employees do not have protection from retaliation by their employers under the First Amendment of the Constitution when they speak pursuant to their official job duties.\nThe U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) uses agency lawyers in the place of administrative law judges to decide federal employees' whistleblower appeals. These lawyers, dubbed \"attorney examiners,\" deny 98% of whistleblower appeals; the Board and the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals give great deference to their initial decisions, resulting in affirmance rates of 97% and 98%, respectively. The most common characteristics for a court claim that are encompassed within the protection of the Act include: that the plaintiff is an employee or person covered under the specific statutory or common law relied upon for action, that the defendant is an employer or person covered under the specific statutory or common law relied upon for the action, that the plaintiff engaged in protected whistleblower activity, that the defendant knew or had knowledge that the plaintiff engaged in such activity, that there was retaliatory action taken against the one doing the whistleblowing and that the unfair treatment would not have occurred if the plaintiff hadn't brought to attention the activities. Robert MacLean blew the whistle on the fact that the TSA had cut its funding for more air marshals. In 2009 MacLean, represented by the Government Accountability Project, challenged his dismissal at the Merit Systems Protection Board, on the grounds that \"his disclosure of the text message was protected under the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989, because he 'reasonably believe[d]' that the leaked information disclosed 'a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety'.\" MacLean won the case in a ruling of 7–2 in the Supreme Court in January 2015.\n\nPresident Barack Obama issued Presidential Policy Directive 19 (PPD-19), entitled \"Protecting Whistleblowers with Access to Classified Information\". According to the law signed by Obama on October 10, 2012, it is written that \"this Presidential Policy Directive ensures that employees (1) serving in the Intelligence Community or (2) who are eligible for access to classified information can effectively report waste, fraud, and abuse while protecting classified\nnational security information. It prohibits retaliation against employees for reporting waste, fraud, and abuse.\n\nHowever, according to a report that the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs submitted to accompany S. 743, \"the federal whistleblowers have seen their protections diminish in recent years, largely as a result of a series of decisions by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which has exclusive jurisdiction over many cases brought under the Whistleblower Protection Act (WPA). Specifically, the Federal Circuit has wrongly accorded a narrow definition to the type of disclosure that qualifies for whistleblower protection. Additionally, the lack of remedies under current law for most whistleblowers in the intelligence community and for whistleblowers who face retaliation in the form of withdrawal of the employee's security clearance leaves unprotected those who are in a position to disclose wrongdoing that directly affects our national security.\"\nS. 743 would address these problems by restoring the original congressional intent of the WPA to adequately protect whistleblowers, by strengthening the WPA, and by creating new whistleblower protections for intelligence employees and new protections for employees whose security clearance is withdrawn in retaliation for having made legitimate whistleblower disclosures. S. 743 ultimately became Pub.L. 112-199 (S.Rep. 112-155).\n\nOn July 14, 2014, the United States House of Representatives voted to pass the All Circuit Review Extension Act (H.R. 4197; 113th Congress), a bill that gives authority to federal employees who want to appeal their judgment to any federal court, and which allows whistleblowers to appeal to any U.S. Court of Appeals that has jurisdiction. The bill would extend from three years after the effective date of the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2012 (i.e., December 27, 2012), the period allowed for: (1) filing a petition for judicial review of Merit Systems Protection Board decisions in whistleblower cases, and (2) any review of such a decision by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).\n\nThere is also a bill in its early stages called the FBI Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act. This bill was introduced by Senators Grassley and Leahy in 2015. It would protect whistleblowers in the FBI more completely from reprisals by supervisors, by assigning administrative law judges to adjudicate the cases, and enabling FBI employees to appeal their decisions to the courts.\n\n"}
{"id": "816273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=816273", "title": "Åke Green", "text": "Åke Green\n\nÅke Green (; born 3 June 1941) is a Swedish Pentecostal Christian pastor who was prosecuted, but acquitted, under Sweden's law against hate speech because of critical opinions on homosexuality in his sermons. The district court found him guilty and sentenced him to one month in prison. The sentence was appealed to the court of appeals (hovrätt). On 11 February 2005, the Göta Court of Appeal overturned the decision and acquitted Åke Green. On 9 March, the Prosecutor-General (\"Riksåklagaren\") appealed this decision to the Supreme Court, which on 29 November also acquitted.\n\nThe Supreme Court stated that Åke Green had violated Swedish law as it currently stands regarding agitation against groups, and that the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of expression as well as freedom of religion does not protect him. However, the Supreme Court also stated that the freedom of expression as well as freedom of religion provided by the European Convention on Human Rights, which is superior to normal Swedish law according to the lex superior principle regarding the ECHR found in the Instrument of Government (Regeringsformen) 2:19, gives him protection, since jurisprudence shows that a conviction would probably not be upheld by the European Court.\n\nIn 2002, the Riksdag included references to sexual orientation in a list of groups protected against persecution in the form of threats and expressions of disdain. The list appears in a section of Swedish criminal law (\"Brottsbalken\") known as The Act on Agitation Against a National or Ethnic Group (\"Lagen om hets mot folkgrupp\").\n\nAt his church in Borgholm, Green delivered a sermon in which he described \"sexual perversions\" (referencing homosexuality) as \"abnormal, a horrible cancerous tumor in the body of society.\" He also said that a person cannot be a Christian and a homosexual at the same time.\n\nGreen had invited members of the media to attend the sermon, but none were present when he preached it in the presence of about fifty listeners. He wrote a summary of the sermon, including the above-mentioned quotes, which was printed in the local newspaper Ölandsbladet. A representative of nearby Kalmar's RFSL, an LGBT equal rights organization, reported the sermon to the police and the controversy began.\n\nThe district court found Åke Green guilty and sentenced him to one month in prison. The sentence was appealed to the court of appeals (hovrätt) and Green's lawyer maintained his client's religious freedom had been violated. On 11 February 2005 Göta hovrätt overturned the decision and acquitted Åke Green. On 9 March, the Prosecutor-General (\"Riksåklagaren\") appealed this decision to the Supreme Court, which on 29 November also acquitted him.\n\nThe Supreme Court stated that Åke Green had violated Swedish hate speech law (\"Lagen om hets mot folkgrupp\"). A conviction would probably not be upheld by the European Court considering Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which covers freedom of religion. After a discussion of the case law regarding Article 9 and 10 the court stated: \"Under these circumstances, it is likely that the European Court, in a determination of the restriction of Åke Green’s right to preach his Biblically based opinion that a judgment of conviction would constitute, would find that this restriction is not proportionate, and would therefore be a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights.\"\n\nThe sentence has raised a controversy all around the world, with disputes between those who see it as a victory for human rights and freedom from intolerance, and those who see it as an attack on religious freedom and the right to free speech, which in themselves are both regarded as human rights.\n\nGreen became a cause celebre for anti-gay preacher Fred Phelps, who has labelled anyone who held the belief that God could love non-elect sinners as being eternally damned. Nonetheless, Phelps installed a monument praising Green on his website. (All of the other \"monuments\" to people on Phelps' sites actually express joy at the death of that person.) Phelps also launched a new website, (GodHatesSweden.com) partially in tribute to Green. Green subsequently denounced Phelps. \"I think it is appalling that people say things like that,\" Green said, \"it is extremely unpleasant.\" In response, Phelps and his organization, the Westboro Baptist Church, denounced Green as a traitor and an ingrate, and he later removed the Green tribute from his website.\n\nÅke Green was also supported by Ulf Ekman of Livets Ord and Robert Vesterlund's \"Info-14\".\n\nResponding to the sentence, Sören Andersson, the president of Swedish Federation for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Rights (RFSL), said that religious freedom could never be used as a reason to persecute people.\n\nIn the beginning of 2008 the organisation IOGT-NTO, a Swedish temperance movement, decided to withdraw Åke Green's membership, stating that his statements about homosexuality conflict with IOGT-NTO's bylaws.\n\nInstead, Green became an adherent of the Christian temperance movement, the Blue Ribbon. He was involved in another controversy following the announcement that he was to hold a speech at a common manifestation together with the Social Democrats on 1 May 2008, in Vänersborg. The Social Democrats excluded members of the Blue Ribbon, including Green, after several protests, some of which were published in Vänersborgs local newspaper, \"TTELA\".\n\n\n"}
