{"id": "55980171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55980171", "title": "1743 in philosophy", "text": "1743 in philosophy\n\n1743 in philosophy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25226157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25226157", "title": "A General View of Positivism", "text": "A General View of Positivism\n\nA General View of Positivism (\"Discours sur l'ensemble du positivisme\") was an 1848 book by the French philosopher Auguste Comte, first published in English in 1865. A founding text in the development of positivism and the discipline of sociology, the work provides a revised and full account of the theory Comte presented earlier in his multi-part \"The Course in Positive Philosophy\" (1830–1842). Comte outlines the epistemological view of positivism, provides an account of the manner by which sociology should be performed, and describes his law of three stages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15658765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15658765", "title": "Albert Rudolph", "text": "Albert Rudolph\n\nAlbert Rudolph (Rudi) (January 24, 1928 – February 21, 1973), also known as Swami Rudrananda, was born in Brooklyn, New York. Rudi was an entrepreneur and spiritual teacher in New York City.\n\nAlbert Rudolph was born January 24, 1928, to impoverished Jewish parents in Brooklyn, New York. His father abandoned the family when he was young.\n\nAccording to his autobiography, Rudolph's first spiritual experience occurred at age 6 in a park. Two Tibetan Buddhist lamas appeared out of the air and stood before him. They told him they represented the heads of the \"Red Hat\" and \"Yellow Hat\" sects, and they were going to place within him the energy and wisdom of Tibetan Buddhism. Several clay jars appeared, which they said they would put inside his solar plexus. The lamas said these jars would stay in him and begin to open at age 31. He would then begin the process of assimilating their contents, and would continue to do so for the rest of his life.\n\nRudolph began his first job at age 12 in a handbag factory, due to a labor shortage during World War II. To supplement his income, he searched through neighborhood rubbish bins to find items to sell. His next job was at a textile company when he was 16 years old, where he worked for the next two years.\n\nRudolph joined the U.S. Army at age 18. For 1½ years, he was an instructor for the government, teaching ROTC at the University of Washington in Seattle. After being discharged, he returned to his job at the textile company in New York.\n\nAt age 20, Rudolph – now calling himself \"Rudi\" – \"experienced a deep spiritual awakening\". He also developed a serious interest in Asian art and began collecting sculpture.\n\nDue to downsizing at the textile company, Rudi’s employer helped him to enter North Carolina State College, where he studied textile engineering. After college, Rudi returned to New York, where he became an engineering trainee at a textile company. During this time, Rudi began to attend meetings based on the teachings of Gurdjieff, which he continued for 5 years.\n\nRudi wrote that when walking in Greenwich Village, he saw a storefront with a \"FOR RENT\" sign in the window. It was small and in terrible condition. He reported that he heard a voice whisper, \"This is your store, this is your store, this is your store.\" He soon opened \"Rudi Oriental Arts\" in the Seventh Avenue space, with just a few hundred dollars and some of the sculptures he had collected. Early on, Rudi supplemented his income by working evenings at the Village Vanguard nearby. In the next years, Rudi established an international network of Asian art suppliers, collectors, and distributors in several countries.\n\nRudi joined the Subud organization, studying with its founder, Pak Subuh, and helping to establish the group in New York. In 1958, Rudi met Swami Bharati Krishna Tirtha, Shankaracharya of Puri, during his first visit to the United States, and lived with him in New York for 4 months.\n\nIn early 1959, Rudi declared himself a spiritual teacher and began teaching students individually in his store. Rudi’s method was to sit opposite a student and gaze intently into their eyes for perhaps five to ten minutes, said to allow him to transmit shaktipat energy.\n\nIn 1960, Rudi began to hold classes in his apartment, which consisted of an open-eyed meditation where he \"transmitted shaktipat energy\" in a group setting, followed by a lecture. Spiritual teacher and friend Hilda Charlton was frequently in attendance. Occasionally after classes, Rudi would invite the students up to his living room to play poker, or he would take them to dinner in Chinatown.\n\nIn early 1961, Rudi sat for a painting by Edith Montlack, an artist in\nNew Rochelle, New York.\n\nIn 1961, Rudi first met Swami Venkatesananda in India, and they became lifelong friends.\n\nIn 1962, after Bhagawan Nityananda's death, Rudi became a student of Swami Muktananda in India, according to several sources. In 1966, Rudi traveled to Ganeshpuri with the intention of obtaining the title of 'swami' from Muktananda. Muktananda did not want to give Rudi the title, and so Rudi spoke with Chakrapani Ullal, a Vedic astrologer, about the situation. Chakrapani Ullal agreed with Rudi and persuaded Muktananda to give him the title, 'Swami Rudrananda', thereby initiating him into the Sarasvati branch of the Dashanami Sampradaya, established by Shankara in the 8th century. In 1971, Rudi dissolved his affiliation with Muktananda.\n\nIn 1964, Franklin Jones, who later became the controversial guru Adi Da, became a casual student. For two years, Rudi's influence on Jones was pervasive. Jones eventually traveled to India to meet Swami Muktananda, who encouraged Jones to abandon his studies with Rudi and study with himself directly, which Jones did. Later, after joining the Church of Scientology, Jones severed all contact with Rudi, though they spoke again years later.\n\nBy 1967, Rudi's business had expanded. He traveled to Asia at least two or three times per year. In 1968, Rudi moved his store, Rudi Oriental Antiques. The new location was five times larger, and in attendance at the gala opening was Japanese Zen master Eido Tai Shimano.\n\nThat autumn, Rudi began searching for a location to establish an ashram. After a few months, he discovered a small Borscht Belt resort in the town of Big Indian, New York. Rudi purchased and named it Shree Gurudev Rudrananda Yoga Ashram. He traveled there on weekends, giving classes and supervising the restoration of the property by his students.\n\nRudi was said to be an excellent chef. He enjoyed the performing arts and music, movies, television, and mystery novels.\n\nIn 1970, Rudi arranged for Muktananda to visit the United States for the first time. Muktananda arrived with his entourage on Labor Day weekend in New York, and traveled with Rudi to Big Indian to stay for two months. Rudi later escorted Muktananda on tour to Texas and California.\n\nIn September 1972, Rudi traveled to India with four of his students. While in India, they visited Swami Chidananda at the Divine Life Society in Rishikesh.\n\nBy end of 1972, Rudi had established fourteen ashrams in the US, and three in Europe. His Manhattan store housed one of the largest Asian art collections in the world. \n\nIn early 1973, Rudi published \"Spiritual Cannibalism\", his only book.\n\nOn February 21, 1973, Rudi died in a small plane crash in the Catskills. The three other occupants walked away with only minor injuries. He was dictating a journal entry, and his last words were, \"...a deeper sense of surrender\".\n\nRudi taught an eclectic blend of techniques he called \"kundalini yoga\" (though with no formal relation to the Indian tradition by that name). He wrote it was \"a yoga which is used to collect energy within yourself and bring through your own chemistry the energy that is in the universe. A human being is only able to do that by internalizing energy and bringing it through their system. A person has all the mysteries of the universe inside.\"\nRudi developed several spiritual exercises with physical components, which he describes in detail in his book \"Spiritual Cannibalism\". They include exercises for releasing negative energy, cultivating gratitude, sitting with deceased persons, and \"double breathing\" for \"drawing in cosmic energy\".\n"}
{"id": "5174906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5174906", "title": "Anti-suffragism", "text": "Anti-suffragism\n\nAnti-suffragism was a political movement composed of both men and women that began in the late 19th century in order to campaign against women's suffrage in countries such as Australia, Canada, Ireland, the United Kingdom and the United States. Anti-suffragism was a largely conservative movement that sought to keep the status quo for women and which opposed the idea giving women equal suffrage rights. It was closely associated with \"domestic feminism,\" the belief that women had the right to complete freedom within the home. In the United States, these activists were often referred to as \"remonstrants\" or \"antis.\"\n\nThe anti-suffrage movement was a countermovement opposing the social movement of women's suffrage in various countries. It could also be considered a counterpublic that espoused a Conservative defense of the status quo for women and men in society. As a countermovement, the anti-suffrage movement didn't gain traction or start to organize until the women's suffrage began to challenge the current social order.\n\nCountries in the Western World began to explore giving women the equal right to vote around the mid 1800s. Areas with the most visible women's suffrage movements were Great Britain and in the United States, although women's suffrage movements took place in many Western countries. Anti-suffrage activities began to emerge in many countries as women publicly advocated for suffrage.\n\nAnti suffrage movements were present in Australia through the 1880s and 1890s. Anti-suffrage organisations in Australia were \"closely associated with the Conservative Party, manufacturing interests and anti-socialist forces.\" The Australian media took part in the anti-suffrage movement, and depicted women as being \"weak and unintelligent,\" emotional and too involved in domestic and trivial matters.\n\nCanadian men and women both became involved in debating the women's suffrage movement in the late 1800s. Women's suffrage was debated in the Legislative Assembly in New Brunswick starting in 1885, and anti-suffrage \"testimonies\" began to appear in the newspapers around that time.\n\nOrganized campaigns against women's suffrage began in earnest in 1905, around the same time that suffragettes were turning to militant tactics. In general, most ordinary women had prioritized domestic and family life over paid employment and political activism when it came to the issue of suffrage. Most historical evidence shows that ordinary women did not have much interest in the right to vote before the first World War and also after suffrage had been granted to women. \n\nThe Women's National Anti-Suffrage League was established in London on 21 July 1908. Its aims were to oppose women being granted the vote in British parliamentary elections, although it did support their having votes in local government elections. It was founded at a time when there was a resurgence of support for the women's suffrage movement.\n\nThe Women's National Anti-Suffrage League, publisher of the \"Anti-Suffrage Review\", submitted a petition to Parliament in 1907 with 87,500 names, but it was rejected by the Petitions Committee of Parliament as \"informal\". The \"Anti-Suffrage Review\" also used shame as a tool to fight against the suffrage movement.\n\nAn Anti-suffrage correspondence had taken place in the pages of \"The Times\" through 1906–1907, with further calls for leadership of the anti-suffrage movement being placed in \"The Spectator\" in February 1908. Possibly as early as 1907, a letter was circulated to announce the creation of a National Women's Anti-Suffrage Association and inviting recipients to become a member of the Central Organising Committee or a member. It was issued under the names of thirty peeresses who would become prominent anti-suffragists, as well as a number of peers and MPs. However, the first meeting of the Women's National Anti-Suffrage League only took place the following year on 21 July, at the Westminster Palace Hotel with Lady Jersey in the Chair. Seventeen persons were nominated to the central committee at this meeting, including Mrs Humphrey Ward in the chair of the Literary Committee and Gertrude Bell as secretary. Other members were Mrs Frederic Harrison, Miss Lonsdale, Violet Markham and Hilaire Belloc MP. Beatrice Chamberlain served as the editor of the \"Anti-Suffrage Review\".\n\nThe League's aims were to oppose women being granted the parliamentary franchise, though it did support their having votes in local and municipal elections. It published the \"Anti-Suffrage Review\" from December 1908 until 1918. It gathered 337,018 signatures on an anti-suffrage petition and founded the first local branch in Hawkenhurst in Kent. The first London branch was established in South Kensington under the auspices of Mary, Countess of Ilchester. Soon after, in May 1910, a Scottish branch was organised into the Scottish National Anti-Suffrage League by the Duchess of Montrose. By December of that year, there were 26 branches or sub-branches in the country, a total which grew to 82 by April 1909, and 104 in July 1910. It was announced that 2000 subscriptions had been received by December, 1908, rising to 9000 in July, 1909.\n\nIn 1910, the group amalgamated with the Men's League for Opposing Woman Suffrage to form the National League for Opposing Women's Suffrage with Lord Cromer as president and Lady Jersey as Vice-President. The merger was in effect a takeover, as the president of the former organisation, Lord Cromer, becoming president of the new one. In 1912 Lord Curzon and Lord Weardale became joint presidents. By 1914, there were around 15,000 members. The organisation continued its activities and the publication of the \"Anti-Suffrage Review\" until 1918 when both came to an end as women's suffrage was granted.\n\nThe opposition to the right for women to vote was a multifaceted phenomenon in which women themselves played a major part. One of the reasons for opposition from women was that they believed that women were already equal without needing to be able to vote, although women were expected to be \"equal\" in different spheres from men. Anti-suffragists were also appalled by the tactics of Suffragettes, who they believed \"had attacked the very essence of English womanhood.\" \n\nMany female maternal reformers, who sought to protect women's defined spheres of motherhood, education, philanthropy, and civil service; felt that women were the better sex for preserving British society through social service to their communities rather than by meddling with politics. Women considered themselves as less able to participate in politics and that to do so was women just imitating men, instead of being \"real women.\" Some feared that the right to vote would introduce uninformed women in making decisions on important political matters. Since Britain was in the process of colonizing other regions around the globe, some viewed the right to vote as a threat to their imperial power as it would make the British look weak by other nations who were male oriented still. Some suffragist female groups developed militant and violent tactics which tarnished the image of women as innocent people that the anti-suffragists had been striving to preserve. Anti-suffragists used theses acts as a reasons to show that women were mentally unable to handle political matters and that both genders had different strengths. \n\nWomen writers promoted anti-suffragism through their wide readerships by raising questions of what ideal women were to be like.</ref>\n\nWomen's suffrage movements had been going on in Ireland since the 1870s. However, as Suffragettes in Ireland became more militant, more organized anti-suffrage campaigns emerged. An Irish branch of the Women's National Anti-Suffrage League was started in 1909 in Dublin. This branch of the League also opposed suffrage in Britain as well.\n\nIrish opposition to the women's vote was both religious and cultural. Both Catholic and Protestant churches in Ireland wanted women's influence to remain domestic in nature. Women were closely associated with their husbands for legal and political purposes and it was argued that husband's votes were sufficient to allow a woman's political expression.\n\nIrish nationalism also played a role in anti-suffrage movements. Because of the nationalistic movements going on in Ireland, both men and women nationalists opposed giving women the vote because they were prioritizing Irish Home Rule. A nationalist paper, \"Bean na hÉireann,\" which was published by the Inghinidhe na hÉirann (Daughters of Ireland), took a very anti-suffrage stance.\n\nWhile men were involved in the anti-suffrage movement in the United States, most anti-suffrage groups were led and supported by women. While these groups openly stated that they wanted politics to be left to men, it was more often women addressing political bodies with anti-suffrage arguments. During the fight to pass the nineteenth amendment, women increasingly took on a leading role in the anti-suffrage movement.\n\nHelen Kendrick Johnson's \"Woman and the Republic\" (1897) was a lauded anti-suffrage book that described the reasons for opposing women's right to vote. Other books, such as Molly Elliot Seawell's \"The Ladies' Battle\" (1911), Ida Tarbell's \"The Business of Being a Woman\" (1912), Grace Duffield Goodwin's \"Anti-Suffrage: Ten Good Reasons\" (1915) and Annie Riley Hale's \"The Eden Sphinx\" (1916) were similarly well-received by the media and used as a \"coherent rationale for opposing women's enfranchisement.\"\n\nAnti-suffrage dramas were also published between the mid 1800s and up to the 1920s. The first playwright to create anti-suffrage plays was William Bentley Fowle, who wrote the one-act play for amateurs, \"Women's Rights\", published in 1856. Later plays were adapted for the professional stage, such as \"The Rights of Man\" (1857) by Oliver S. Leland and \"Election Day\" (1880) by Frank Dumont. Nellie Locke published an anti-suffrage drama in 1896, called \"A Victim of Women's Rights\". Many anti-suffrage dramas were overtly political and incorporated the use of farce to paint suffragists as \"self-absorbed\" and \"mannish in dress and manner.\" They also criticized the idea of the New Woman in general and advocated for women and men to occupy separate spheres of influence.\n\n\"The Remonstrance\", a journal published by the Massachusetts Association Opposed to the Further Extension of Suffrage to Women (MAOFESW) between 1890 and 1920 was used to promote anti-suffrage ideas and also to react to and refute the claims of suffragists.\n\nThe anti-suffrage movement began in the United States after the Massachusetts State legislature introduced a proposal to promote female voting rights. Two hundred women opposed this initiative as they did not want women to gain full citizenship. Though nothing became of this proposal, its introduction mobilized the suffrage movement on both sides.\n\nIn 1871, a petition to the United States Congress was published by nineteen women in Godey's Lady's Book and Magazine in opposition to votes for women, the first instance of the mobilization from anti-suffrage women.\n\nWomen turned out at the New York State Constitutional Convention in 1894 to protest women's suffrage.\n\nIn 1895, the Massachusetts Association Opposed to the Further Extension of Suffrage to Women (MAOFESW) was created and is noted to be the first effort of the anti-suffragists to institutionalize their cause. In Des Moines, Iowa, 35 women formed the Iowa Association Opposed to Woman Suffrage in 1898. California, Illinois, New York, Oregon, South Dakota and Washington all formed groups by 1900. Ohio formed an anti suffrage group, the Ohio Association Opposed to Woman Suffrage in 1902.\n\nThe New York State Association Opposed to Woman Suffrage was founded in 1897, and by 1908 it had over 90 members. It was active in producing pamphlets and publications explaining their views of women's suffrage, until the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution was passed in 1920. A Geneva branch was founded in 1909. The suffragists in New York often extended invitations to open discussion with the anti-suffragists. The New York association had its own magazine, \"The Anti-Suffragist\", published by Mrs. William Winslow Crannell from July 1908 to April 1912.\n\nThe National Association Opposed to Woman Suffrage (NAOWS) was the first national organization of women who challenged the fight for women's suffrage. Several state associations assembled for an anti-suffrage convention in New York City and formed the NAOWS. The association gained significant momentum between 1912 and 1916 and was operational in twenty-five states. The NAOWS was said to have as many as 350,000 members. At the start, the organization was run by Josephine Dodge and Minnie Bronson. Alice Hay Wadsworth, wife of James Wolcott Wadsworth Jr., assumed leadership of the association when it moved its headquarters from New York to Washington D.C. in 1917. NAOWS produced \"The Woman's Protest\", a newsletter that helped defeat close to forty woman suffrage referenda.\n\nEverett P. Wheeler, a lawyer from New York, created the Man-Suffrage Association Opposed to Woman Suffrage in 1913. This organization was made up of powerful and affluent men and started out with around 600 members opposed to women's suffrage.\n\nAnti-suffragists helped contribute to war relief work during World War I. NAOWS contributed to the Belgian war relief effort. Many anti-suffrage groups highlighted their charitable efforts, painting themselves as \"self-sacrificing.\" They wanted the country to see that women could make a difference without the vote, however, it was partly the efforts of women aiding the war that helped women gain the vote in the end.\n\nThere were several concerns that drove the anti-suffrage argument. Anti-suffragists felt that giving women the right to vote would threaten the family institution. Illinois anti-suffragist, Caroline Corbin felt that women's highest duties were motherhood and its responsibilities. Some saw women's suffrage as in opposition to God's will. Antis such as Catharine Beecher and Sara Josepha Hale both shared a religiously based criticism of suffrage and believed women should be only involved with \"Kinder, Küche, Kirche\" (children, kitchen and church). Some anti-suffragists didn't want the vote because they felt it violated traditional gender norms. Many anti-suffragists felt that if women gained the vote there would be an end to \"true womanhood.\"\n\nThere were also those who thought that women could not handle the responsibility of voting because they lacked knowledge of that beyond the domestic sphere and they feared government would be weakened by introducing this ill-informed electorate. Anti-suffragists did not see voting as a \"right,\" but as a \"duty\" and that women already had their own unique responsibilities and duties in the domestic sphere. Also, since Antis believed that governments had authority due to \"force,\" women wouldn't be able to \"enforce the laws they may enact.\"\n\nAnti-suffragists, such as Josephine Dodge, argued that giving women the right to vote would overburden them and undermine their privileged status. They saw participation in the private sphere as essential to a woman's role and thought that giving them public duties would prevent them from fulfilling their primary responsibilities in the home. Anti-suffragists claimed that they represented the \"silent majority\" of America who did not want to enter the public sphere by gaining the right to vote. Being against women's suffrage didn't mean, however, that all Antis were against civic pursuits. Jeanette L. Gilder, a journalist, wrote \"Give women everything she wants, but not the ballot. Open every field of learning, every avenue of industry to her, but keep her out of politics.\" Dodge encouraged women to become involved in \"charitable, philanthropic and educational activities.\" It was also cited that women had made reforms such as raising the age of consent without the vote and that gaining this right was therefore unnecessary and could even be harmful to further reform movements. The thought was that women were able to influence the government because they were seen as politically neutral and non-partisan and giving them the right to vote would strip them of this unique position. In addition, because voting is \"only a small part of government,\" they believed there was no need to vote in order to participate in politics. This particular line of reasoning, that women should stay out of politics, kept the General Federation of Women's Clubs (GFWC) from officially endorsing suffrage until 1914.\n\nAnti-suffragism was not limited to conservative elements. The anarchist Emma Goldman opposed suffragism on the grounds that women were more inclined toward legal enforcement of morality (as in the Women's Christian Temperance Union), that it was a diversion from more important struggles, and that suffrage would ultimately not make a difference. She also said that activists ought to advocate revolution rather than seek greater privileges within an inherently unjust system. Anti-suffragists saw women's efforts to gain the vote to be all surface dressing with a lack of serious intent to change the world for the better. Other Antis believed that social reform was better accomplished through trade unions and non-partisan groups. Progressives criticized suffrage in the Utah Territory as a cynical Mormon ploy, resulting in the passage of the Edmunds-Tucker Act.\n\nThe anti-suffrage movement began to change in its position against suffrage in 1917, expanding their scope to include anti-radical rhetoric. The anti-suffrage movement focused less on the issue of suffrage and began to spread fear of radical ideas and to use \"conspiratorial paranoia.\" Suffragists were accused of subversion of the government and treason. They were also accused of being socialists, \"Bolsheviks\" or \"unpatriotic German sympathizers.\" The Texas branch of the NAOWS accused women's suffrage groups of being linked to \"socialism, anarchy and Mormonism.\" Accusations of being associated with unpopular radical movements was named after the second president of NAOWS, Alice Wadsworth, and called \"Wadsworthy\" attacks. In addition to associating suffrage with radicalism, the antis also felt that they were oppressed and had lost much perceived political power by 1917.\n\nAnti-suffrage movements in the American South included an appeal to conservatism and white supremacy. In Virginia, the NAOWS chapter even linked race riots to women's suffrage.\n\nOnce the nineteenth amendment was passed, some women who opposed suffrage exercised this right. They took the energy they were investing in the anti-suffrage movement and turned it towards supporting the platform of the Republican party. Former members of anti-suffrage groups in New York became involved in the Women's National Republican Club. In this way, they left the private sphere and entered the public sphere, one of the things that they were resisting in their anti-suffrage efforts. Former anti-suffragist, Ida Tarbell, pointed out that it would take some time for women to get comfortable with voting. Some women didn't vote or get involved in politics. Others, like Annie Nathan Meyer advocated for all anti-suffrage women to not vote in order to allow the country to suffer from what she saw as a terrible decision to allow women to vote.\n\nThe passage of the Nineteenth Amendment also kickstarted a coalition of anti-suffragists who organized themselves into a political anti-feminist movement in order to \"oppose expansion of social welfare programs, women's peace efforts, and to foster a political culture hostile to progressive female activists. This coalition effectively blended anti-feminism and anti-radicalism by embracing and utilizing the hysteria of the post-World War I Red Scare.\"\n\nThere was contemporary criticism of the anti-suffrage movement in the United States. One criticism was that anti-suffragists did not present a consistent argument against suffrage. Other arguments were seen as inconsistent, such as Antis claiming that voting meant women must hold office, when members of anti-suffrage groups were already holding offices such as being on the school board. Other critics, such as Alice Stone Blackwell, pointed out that the anti-suffrage groups exaggerated certain claims, such as membership numbers. Critics also argued that there were no new arguments presented over time. Anti-suffrage groups were also criticized for being \"inconsistent\" in that they wanted women out of the public sphere, yet they gathered together into public lobbying groups against suffrage. \"The Valley Independent\" wrote in 1915 that any organization that wanted to oppose women's suffrage and which was made up of women \"leaves a bad taste in our mouth.\"\n\nSome critics were \"almost contemptuous,\" such as Anna Howard Shaw, who said, \"You'd think they would have loyalty enough to their sex not to make us all out a set of fools.\" Shaw believed that Antis were \"puppets of more power male forces.\" Florence Kelley called anti-suffragists \"lazy, comfortable, sheltered creatures, caring nothing for the miseries of the poor.\"\n\nThe archives of the Women's National Anti-Suffrage League are held at The Women's Library at the Library of the London School of Economics, ref 2WNA\n\nThe Library and Archives division of the Georgia Historical Society have a collection of broadsides from the National Association Opposed to Woman Suffrage from 1917–1919. The documents appear to be printed by state affiliates of the national group. One of the documents was issued by The Men's Anti-Ratification League of Montgomery, Alabama.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16737235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16737235", "title": "Approbative", "text": "Approbative\n\nIn linguistics, approbatives are words or grammatical forms that denote a positive affect; that is, they express the appreciation or approval of the speaker. Sometimes a term may begin as a pejorative word and eventually be adopted in an approbative sense. In historical linguistics, this phenomenon is known as \"amelioration\" (e.g., \"punk\").\n\n"}
{"id": "13737222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13737222", "title": "Ato Sekyi-Otu", "text": "Ato Sekyi-Otu\n\nAto Sekyi-Otu is a radical Ghanaian intellectual. Sekyi-Otu worked at the York University in Canada for many years. He is best known for his work on Frantz Fanon and Ayi Kwei Armah. In 1996 he wrote an acknowledged classic in the literature on Fanon entitled \"Fanon's Dialectic of Experience\".\n\nSekyi-Otu's work has been widely taken up in South Africa and in the Caribbean.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2266434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2266434", "title": "Best of all possible worlds", "text": "Best of all possible worlds\n\nThe phrase \"the best of all possible worlds\" (; ) was coined by the German polymath Gottfried Leibniz in his 1710 work \"Essais de Théodicée sur la bonté de Dieu, la liberté de l'homme et l'origine du mal\" (\"Essays of Theodicy on the Goodness of God, the Freedom of Man and the Origin of Evil\"). The claim that the actual world is the best of all possible worlds is the central argument in Leibniz's theodicy, or his attempt to solve the problem of evil.\n\nAmong his many philosophical interests and concerns, Leibniz took on this question of theodicy: If God is omnibenevolent, omnipotent and omniscient, how do we account for the suffering and injustice that exists in the world? Historically, attempts to answer the question have been made using various arguments, for example, by explaining away evil or reconciling evil with good.\n\nLeibniz outlined his perfect world theory in his work \"The Monadology\", stating the argument in five statements: \nTo further understand his argument, these five statements can be grouped in three main premises. The first premise (corresponding to the first and second statements) state that God can only choose one universe from the infinite amount of possible universes. (The term \"one universe\" does not necessarily mean a single three-dimensional physical reality, but refers to the sum total of God's creation, and thus might include multiple worlds.) The second premise (the third and fourth statements) state that God is a perfect existence, and he makes decisions based on reason. The third premise (the fifth statement) concludes that the existing world, chosen by God, is the best.\n\nLeibniz used Christianity to back up the validity of all the premises. For the first premise, God's existence and role as the creator of the world was proven by the Bible. The second premise is proven since \"God acts always in the most perfect and most desirable manner possible\". Therefore, His choice will always be the best, and only perfect existence can make perfect decision throughout time. Since all the premises are right, then Leibniz concluded, \"The universe that God chose to exist is the best of all possible worlds\".\n\nTo set his argument, Leibniz wrestled with the problem of sin and evil in the world that obviously exists and is considered as the imperfection of the world. Leibniz, in this letter said, \"I do not believe that a world without evil, preferable in order to ours, is possible; otherwise it would have been preferred. It is necessary to believe that the mixture of evil has produced the greatest possible good: otherwise the evil would not have been permitted\". In other words, if a world without evil is more perfect in any way, then evil would have not happened, and the world without evil would be our world instead. God put evilness in the world for us to understand goodness which is achieved through contrasting it with evil. Once we understood evil and good, it gives us the ability to produce the \"greatest possible good\" out of all the goodness. Evil fuels goodness, which leads to a perfect system.\n\nFor Leibniz, an additional central concern is the matter of reconciling human freedom (indeed, God's own freedom) with the determinism inherent in his own theory of the universe. Leibniz' solution casts God as a kind of \"optimizer\" of the collection of all original possibilities: Since he is good and omnipotent, and since he chose this world out of all possibilities, this world must be good—in fact, this world is the best of \"all\" possible worlds.\n\nIn his writing, \"Discourse on Metaphysics\", Leibniz first establishes that God is an absolutely perfect being. He says people can logically conclude this through reason since \"the works must bear the imprint of the workman, because we can learn who he was just by inspecting them\". He calls this the Principle of Perfection, which says that God's knowledge and power is to the highest degree, more so than any human can comprehend. Due to God's omnipotence, Leibniz makes the premise that God has thought of every single possibility there is to be thought of before creating this world. His perfection gives him the ability to think \"beyond the power of a finite mind\", so he has sufficient reason to choose one world over the other.\n\nOut of all the possibilities, God chose the very best world because not only is God powerful, but he is also morally good. He writes \"the happiness of minds is God's principal aim, which He carries out as far as the general harmony will permit\", meaning a benevolent God will only do actions with the intention of good will towards his creation. If one supposed that this world is not the best, then it assumes that the creator of the universe is not knowledgeable enough, powerful enough, or inherently good, for an inherently good God would have created the best world to the best of his ability. It would overall be a contradiction to his good and perfect nature, and so the universe that God has chosen to create can only be the best of all possible worlds.\n\nOn the one hand, this view might help us rationalize some of what we experience: Imagine that all the world is made of good and evil. The best possible world would have the most good and the least evil. Courage is better than no courage. It might be observed, then, that without evil to challenge us, there can be no courage. Since evil brings out the best aspects of humanity, evil is regarded as necessary. So in creating this world God made some evil to make the best of all possible worlds. On the other hand, the theory explains evil not by denying it or even rationalizing it—but simply by declaring it to be part of the optimum combination of elements that comprise the best possible godly choice. Leibniz thus does not claim that the world is overall very good, but that because of the necessary interconnections of goods and evils, God, though omnipotent, could not improve it in one way without making it worse in some other way.\n\nGiovanni Gentile, in his work \"The General Theory of Mind as Pure Act\", claimed that if God had created everything to fall into line with the most favorable possible condition, it would suppose that all of reality is pre-realized and determined in the mind of God. Therefore, the apparent free will displayed by both God, by his necessity of being bound by what is the most good, and humanity in their limitations derived from God to be in line with the most good, are not free wills at all but entirely determinate. Thus ultimately relegated to blind naturalistic processes entrapping both God and humanity to necessity, robbing both of any true freely creative will.\n\nCritics of Leibniz, such as Voltaire, argue that the world contains an amount of suffering too great to justify optimism. While Leibniz argued that suffering is good because it incites human will, critics argue that the degree of suffering is too severe to justify belief that God has created the \"best of all possible worlds\". Leibniz also addresses this concern by considering what God desires to occur (his antecedent will) and what God allows to occur (his consequent will). Others, such as the Christian philosopher Alvin Plantinga, criticized Leibniz's theodicy by arguing that there probably is not such a thing as \"the best\" of all possible worlds, since one can always conceive a better world, such as a world with one more morally righteous person.\n\nThe \"Theodicy\" was deemed illogical by the philosopher Bertrand Russell. Russell argues that moral and physical evil must result from metaphysical evil (imperfection). But imperfection is merely finitude or limitation; if existence is good, as Leibniz maintains, then the mere existence of evil requires that evil also be good. In addition, libertarian Christian theology defines sin as not necessary but contingent, the result of free will. Russell maintains that Leibniz failed to logically show that metaphysical necessity (divine will) and human free will are not incompatible or contradictory.\n\nThe mathematician Paul du Bois-Reymond, in his \"Leibnizian Thoughts in Modern Science\", wrote that Leibniz thought of God as a mathematician:\n\nAs is well known, the theory of the maxima and minima of functions was indebted to him for the greatest progress through the discovery of the method of tangents. Well, he conceives God in the creation of the world like a mathematician who is solving a minimum problem, or rather, in our modern phraseology, a problem in the calculus of variationsthe question being to determine among an infinite number of possible worlds, that for which the sum of necessary evil is a minimum.\n\nThe statement that \"we live in the best of all possible worlds\" drew scorn, most notably from Voltaire, who lampooned it in his comic novella \"Candide\" by having the character Dr. Pangloss (a parody of Leibniz and Maupertuis) repeat it like a mantra. From this, the adjective \"Panglossian\" describes a person who believes that the world about us is the best possible one.\n\nWhile Leibniz does state this universe is the best possible version of itself, the standard for goodness does not seem clear to many of his critics. To Leibniz, the best universe means a world that is “the simplest in hypotheses and the richest in phenomena”, in addition to the “happiness of minds” being God's main goal. Voltaire, Bertrand Russell, and other critics seem to equate goodness of the universe to no evil or evil acts whatsoever, presuming that a universe that did not contain evil would be \"better\" and that God could have created such a universe, but chose not to. According to Leibniz, that is not the case. He believes that if a better alternative existed “God would have brought it into actuality”. Essentially, Leibniz affirms that no human can truly think up of a better universe because they lack a holistic understanding of the universe, and God, who has that holistic understanding, has already chosen the best option. All of this shifts the meaning of goodness from morality and actions to the quality and phenomena of this universe's existence. Despite that, the concept of the goodness of the universe is still a point of major contention in Leibniz's argument, as someone could always argue about the lack of goodness in the universe based on those parameters\n\nWhile not directly criticizing Leibniz, Spinoza holds a drastically different view on creation and the universe. Spinoza believes “that everything that God thinks or conceives must also exist”, and he combines God's will and God's understanding where Leibniz separates them. In other words, God cannot imagine an infinite number of worlds and “as a separate act of will” choose one of those to create. How does Spinoza explain creation then? To put it simply, everything in the universe “is a direct result of God’s nature”. The moment God thinks of something, it exists. As there are not an infinite amount of universes (according to Spinoza and Leibniz) God must have only conceived of one universe. This, however, still runs into the problem of the existence of evil. How can God, in his perfection, create a world capable of evil if the world is an extension of his mind? In any case, Spinoza still tries to justify a non-infinite basis for the universe, where reality is everything God has ever thought of.\n\nAquinas, using Scholasticism, treats the \"Best of all possible worlds\" problem in the \"Summa Theologica\" (1273):\n\nObjection 1: It seems that God does not exist; because if one of two contraries be infinite, the other would be altogether destroyed. But the word \"God\" means that He is infinite goodness. If, therefore, God existed, there would be no evil discoverable; but there is evil in the world. Therefore God does not exist.\n\nHe counters this in general by the \"quinque viae\", and in particular with this refutation:\n\nReply to Objection 1: As Augustine says (Enchiridion xi): \"Since God is the highest good, He would not allow any evil to exist in His works, unless His omnipotence and goodness were such as to bring good even out of evil.\" This is part of the infinite goodness of God, that He should allow evil to exist, and out of it produce good.\n\nThe theological theory of pandeism has been classed as a logical derivation of this proposition with the contention that:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18327023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18327023", "title": "Chee Soo", "text": "Chee Soo\n\nChee Soo (born Clifford Soo, also known as Clifford Gibbs, 4 June 1919 – 29 August 1994) was an author of books about the philosophy of Taoism and in particular Lee-style t'ai chi ch'uan, Qigong, Ch'ang Ming, Traditional Chinese Medicine and Feng Shou 'Hand of the Wind' Kung Fu.\n\nBorn on 4 June 1919 in All Souls, Marylebone, London, Chee Soo was the son of Ah Chee Soo, a Chinese seaman and a pastry chef at the Westminster restaurant. His English mother was Beatrice Annie Alice Gibbs. They lived in Westminster. Although he enlisted in the British Army under the name Clifford Gibbs, his mother's maiden name, in later life he took his father's name and was known as Chee Soo. In a 1977 LBC radio interview Chee Soo described meeting a Chinese Martial Arts teacher from Shandong called Chan Kam Lee in Hyde Park when he was fourteen years old. Chee Soo said he was invited to Chan Lee's class in the summer of 1934, and this was the beginning of his martial arts training. Chee Soo said that Chan Kam Lee adopted him as a nephew, and taught him the arts whenever his work and time permitted.\n\nIn 1937 Chee Soo joined the 2nd Battalion of the Royal Tank Regiment part of the 7th Armoured division known as the Desert rats. During the Second World War, he was promoted to Lance-Corporal and Corporal in 1941, then to \"Acting Serjeant\" in 1942. He was awarded the Military Medal after the Battle of Beda Fomm in Libya in February 1941, part of Operation Compass. After his regiment were transferred to Burma he was captured by the Japanese on 19 April 1942 during the Battle of Yenangyaung and forced to work on the Death Railway as a POW where he contracted Malaria, he was later classified as a war crimes witness:\nIn 1939 the Second World War broke out, and Chee Soo did his share of fighting as a Tank Commander in the Second Battalion of the Royal Tank Corps, in France, in North Africa — where he won the Military Medal, and in Burma where, after a hectic battle, he was finally taken prisoner by the Japanese. He went through many periods of beatings, torture, starvation and very hard work as a member of a working party in the mountains between India and Burma. Finally, three years later, as the Japanese started to retreat from the advancing Allies, he managed to escape into the Shan Mountains of West Burma and made his way over very rugged terrain and through many jungles, till finally one month afterwards he was able to make contact with the Allies again. Three months after recuperation and treatment (for he then weighed only 84 lbs), he was flown back to England, where he was able to enjoy a long leave with his wife. After that, he was discharged from the forces and took a course in book-keeping, stock control, commercial history and sales promotion.\nChee Soo claimed that he managed to make contact with Chan Lee again after the war was finished, and the class in Holborn was restarted. In 1950, Chee Soo formed his own class in Manor Road School, West Ham, East London.\nThe author Rupert Croft-Cooke who was Chee's friend from 1938 provides us with some biographical details of this period in Chee Soo's life in his book 'The Dogs of Peace'.\n\nClifford Gibbs had got his rather grand name from Dr Barnardo's Homes, for he had been reared in one of these, the son of a Chinese father and English mother, neither of whom he had ever seen. I had known him before the war and was as proud as he was of the Military Medal he had earned as a Corporal in the Royal Armoured Corps in North Africa. He had been sent to Burma and taken prisoner by the Japanese, and suffered unspeakable tortures and humiliations because of his race, separated as he was from his fellow British. He had survived and, inwardly as inscrutable as a Conrad character, a little like Wang in Victory, he had married a blonde English girl and had an exquisite baby daughter whose godfather I became at a Sunday afternoon service in an East End Anglican church.\nClifford, who went about life methodically, was severely industrious and found the means of saving for his family even in those days of grudging wages. But he had a humorous cheerful side to his character and enlivened my flat during his weekly visits between office hours and his return to Durban Street, E.15. He was an expert wrestler and had earned the Judo black belt. Only from the depths of his character emerged sometimes the exotic or oriental; in speech and manner he was very much an Englishman, and it was strange to hear from his curved lips words that might have been used by any London ex-soldier. I am glad to have had his friendship throughout those years.\nChee Soo said that after the death of his teacher Chan Kam Lee, he went on to become the President of the International Taoist Society and taught a variety of martial arts ranging from self-defence techniques to healing and spiritual disciplines based on Chinese Medicine, ch'i kung and meditation.\n\nChee Soo's daughter Lavinia Soo-Warr adds that Chee Soo began learning Judo and Kendo in London after World War 2, and followed this up with training in Aikido with Kenshiro Abbe after his arrival in London in 1955. This history states that Chee Soo \"switched back to the Chinese arts\", possibly influenced by his negative experiences as a Japanese prisoner-of-war during WW2. Lavinia states that Chee Soo began teaching a small group in Dunstable in \"Ch'i Shu\". This is probably the Aikido-influenced system which Chee Soo demonstrates and is called \"Qi Shu\" or \"Chinese Aikido\" in contemporary Movietone footage. The history says that later \"as the Chi'Shu and Kung Fu systems became more popular, he introduced Taijiquan and the Chang Ming Diet\", which suggests that Chee Soo was not teaching Tai Chi up to this point. Lavinia's history says that Chee Soo changed his teachings fundamentally \"at least three times\" during his teaching career.\n\nAccording to Chee Soo, Chan Lee died in the winter of 1953–4 off the coast of China, near Canton, when the ship he was travelling in sank in a severe storm, and he was asked to take over the leadership of the association. Since then the association has grown in The British Isles, Australia, South Africa, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Mauritius and New Zealand.\n\nChee Soo taught 'The Eight Strands of the Brocade', comprising :\n\nThere are two associations which are affiliated to the Chinese Cultural Arts Association and the International Wu Shu Association.\n\nThe Chinese Cultural Arts Association teach :\n\nThe International Wu Shu Association teach:\nChee Soo was also involved as a fight choreographer with the cult TV series The Avengers during the 1960s as is evidenced by publicity photographs of him with Ray Austin (himself a Black Belt third dan Kung Fu Master and pupil of Soo's) and Diana Rigg probably taken around 1967. He brought Kung Fu before a western audience years before Bruce Lee had even been heard of.\nThe Guinness world record site states that \"In 1965, Dame Diana Rigg (UK) became the first western actress to perform kung fu on Television when the combat choreographers Ray Austin (UK) and Chee Soo (UK/China) worked elements of the martial art into her fight scenes on The Avengers. Certificate presentation was done on The New Paul O'Grady Show.\"\n\nDuring the 1970s he ran a Chinese Health and Herbal clinic in London.\n\nAccording to a British Movietone News documentary filmed on 21 May 1970 at Guildford in Surrey – UK, Chee Soo had over 2000 students studying Wu Shu in Britain as part of the British Wu Shu Association, and was one of only three men outside of Beijing qualified to teach Wu Shu.\n\nChee Soo appeared in a BBC Nationwide TV interview on 21 September 1973 where he demonstrated Kung fu self-defence techniques and inner power live in the studio with presenter Bob Wellings. Chee Soo talked about the history of Kung Fu and the difference between Northern and Southern kung fu styles in China and how it differs from Karate.\n\nIn 1975 Chee Soo was filmed by the BBC at his Feng shou kung fu class in Seymour Hall in London and subsequently appeared in a documentary broadcast for schools entitled Scene:Looking for a fight. His soft style kung fu self-defence class was contrasted with boxing and hard style kung fu.\n\nIn 1977 he was interviewed by Brian Hayes on LBC radio and talked about Lee style T'ai Chi Ch'uan, meeting his teacher Chan Kam Lee and Reincarnation.\n\nAccording to an interview with Marilyn Soo who is Chee Soo's widow, during the 1980s he moved to Coventry and spent his time writing and teaching courses in Lee-style t'ai chi ch'uan and Feng Shou Kung Fu at the Alderman Callow School in Coventry (now called The Westwood Academy) and other locations around Britain, as well as visiting some of his students overseas in places like Australia and around Europe. Chee Soo was the author of five books published during his lifetime and one book published posthumously about Taoist philosophy.\n\nHe died in Ebbw Vale on 29 August 1994 as a result of an abdominal aneurism caused by Deep vein thrombosis probably aggravated by several long haul plane flights during the previous two years.\n\nChee Soo's books were first published in hardback by Gordon and Cremonesi from 1976, then by Aquarian Press (Thorsons/HarperCollins) from 1983 who published reprints throughout the 1980s which topped the best sellers listings for several years. They have been translated into various languages including Portuguese (Brazilian), Polish, German, French (distributed in Canada, France, Belgium, Switzerland, Portugal), Indonesian, Spanish, and Italian and published throughout the world. His books are now published by Seahorse Books.\n\nAll quotes are reproduced with the permission of the copyright holder.\n"}
{"id": "7720374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720374", "title": "Compliance and ethics program", "text": "Compliance and ethics program\n\nSince about 1970, several major business and government excesses were seen in the United States to generate subsequent legal, public and political reaction. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act is perhaps the legislation with the most significant influence in the development of ethics and compliance programs; similar ideas are encoded in the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations, and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines.\n\nThe Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) marked the early beginnings of compliance programs in the United States. In the mid-1970s, United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) investigations discovered that a significant number of American companies participated in bribery overseas. “Over 400 U.S. Companies admitted to making questionable or illegal payments to foreign government officials, politicians and political parties.” (United States Department of Justice 2006) One of the most infamous cases of its time was the admission by a Lockheed executive, to the Multinational Corporations Subcommittee of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, that Lockheed had paid bribes in the amount of $22 million to Japanese government officials in the course of trying to sell its aircraft. This revelation came on the heels of the U.S. Government providing Lockheed with a $250 million emergency loan guarantee (Hishikawa 2003).\n\nIn an effort to restore faith in American business, in December 1977 the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act was signed into law. This anti-bribery provision makes it “unlawful for a U.S. person, and certain foreign issuers of securities, to make a corrupt payment to a foreign official for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business for or with, or directing business to, any person.” (United States Department of Justice 2006) The law also requires publicly traded companies “to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent the company’s transactions. Additionally, it requires these companies to have an adequate systems of internal accounting controls.” (United States Department of Justice 2006)\n\nFollowing the passage of the FCPA, in 1988, the Congress became concerned that American companies were operating at a disadvantage because their foreign counterparts were, as a matter of practice, paying bribes to foreign officials and deducting those bribes as business expenses on their taxes. (United States Department of Justice 2006) Subsequently, the Executive Branch began negotiations with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), a 34-member nation coalition consisting of the United States and 33 other countries, to enact legislation similar to FCPA. In 1997, the OCED signed the Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions. (http://www.oecd.org/document/21/0,2340,en_2649_34859_2017813_1_1_1_1,00.html)\n\nThis regulation requires member nations to designate the payment of bribes to foreign offices as a crime and to follow the rules and regulations that govern bribery in international transactions. The U.S. ratified this convention and enacted implementing legislation in 1998. At this time, the FCPA was amended to include territorial jurisdiction over foreign companies and nationals. A foreign company or person is now subject to the FCPA, if the company or person either directly or indirectly through agents, engages in acts which further the facilitation of corrupt payments taking place within the territory of the United States.\n\nIn response to the FCPA and its requirement to implement internal control programs, in 1985 a private-sector initiative was formed called the National Committee on Fraudulent Financial Reporting (commonly known as the Treadway Commission). This Commission recommended that its organizational sponsors work together to develop guidance on internal controls. Subsequently, the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) was formed, and in conjunction with the CPA firm Coopers & Lybrand, COSO authored and published in 1992 the “Internal Control-Integrated Framework\". This framework has become the de facto standard in the accounting industry for auditing, evaluating and monitoring internal control systems.\n\nThe COSO Internal Control-Integrated Framework is now widely used by most organizations as the basis for “establishing and maintaining an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting” ( 15 USC § 7262) and for the assessment of control effectiveness under section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley.\n\nIn 1984 Congress passed the Sentencing Reform Act, which created a set of mandatory federal sentencing guidelines (Campbell & Bemporad 2006). As part of the Act, the United States Sentencing Commission was formed and delegated the responsibility “to provide “certainty” and “fairness” in sentencing, avoiding “unwarranted sentencing disparities” while “maintaining sufficient flexibility to permit individualized sentencing when warranted by mitigating or aggravating factors (Campbell & Bemporad 2006).”\n\nOn May 1, 1991, as an extension of the Sentencing Reform Act, the United States Sentencing Commission submitted to Congress the Federal Sentencing Guidelines for Organizations] (FSGO), a set of standards that govern the sentences federal judges impose on organizations convicted of federal crimes. Enacted on November 1, 1991, core to the guidelines was the Commission’s intent to “prevent and deter organizational wrongdoing” through its design of the organizational sentencing guidelines. These guidelines describe the elements of an organization’s compliance and ethics program that are required to be considered for eligibility for a reduced sentence if convicted. In general, the FSGO require an organization to establish standards to guide its employees and agents. These standards must reflect government regulations and industry standards and apply to almost all types of organizations including corporations, partnerships, unions, non-profit organizations and trusts.\n\nIn 2004, the United States Sentencing Commission voted to amend its existing organization guidelines to make the criteria for an effective compliance and ethics program more stringent. Two major standards were identified in the amended guidelines. The amended guidelines stated the need for directors and executives to take an active role in the management of its compliance and ethics program and the importance of promoting an organizational culture that is compliant with the law and demonstrates ethical culture. The amended guidelines outline minimum requirements for an effective compliance and ethics program and the amended FSGO has become synonymous with an effective compliance program.\n\nThe FCPA, Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines represent just a fraction of the standards and requirements organizations need to consider today when developing and implementing their compliance programs. “Since the passage of SOX, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), NASDAQ, and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), have all proposed and implemented new rules relating to compliance programs (Martin 2004).” Organizations today are increasingly accountable to mandated laws, regulations and standards on a number of dimensions, which include geographical/regional considerations, as well as industry and functional discipline concerns. These regulations and standards apply to a variety of financial and non-financial areas. Adding to this complexity are the “voluntary” boundaries, which organizations have individually established such as organizational commitments, values, and contractual obligations. As a result of these dynamics, organizations at the very core of their business strategy need to establish the capacity and the capability to effectively address the conditions mandated by these external requirements and internally generated operating principles while still meeting their business objectives.\n\nHistory set the tone for increasing regulations and rising standards. Over time, organizations will need to be more proactive in anticipating and addressing these considerations while simultaneously protecting and building the enterprise. More and more organizations will need to translate, integrate and simplify these various standards and requirements into a cohesive approach.\n\nDesigning an effective compliance and ethics program requires implementing a detailed plan that will make sure the business achieves their ethics objectives. The organization must have ways of managing, evaluating, and controlling business ethics and compliance programs. There are five items which can affect the success of the compliance and ethics program: (1) the content of the company's code of ethics, (2) the frequency of communication regarding the ethical code and program, (3) the quality of communication, (4) senior management's ability to successfully incorporate ethics into the organization, (5) and local management's ability to do the same.\n\nCompliance and ethics program with regulatory requirements and the organization’s own policies are a critical component of effective risk management. An organizations program is recommended to include monitoring and auditing systems that allow detection of criminal and other improper context to be found easily. Maintaining the compliance and ethics program is one of the most important ways for an organization to maintain its ethical health, support its long-term prosperity, and preserve and promote its values.\n\nA compliance and ethics program supports the organization’s business objectives, identifies the boundaries of legal and ethical behavior, and establishes a system to alert management when the organization is getting close to (or crossing) a boundary or approaching an obstacle that prevents the achievement of a business objective.\n\nManagement should continuously improve its compliance and ethics program. This will enable it to better prevent, detect, and respond to similar misfeasance and/or malfeasance in the future.\n\nThe compliance and ethics program should strive to deliver tangible benefits and outcomes to the organization. Every organization is unique and has its own objectives. As such, several objectives of the compliance and ethics program will be unique as well. There are a few universal program outcomes/objectives that a compliance and ethics capability should deliver. These include an enhanced culture of trust, accountability and integrity; prevention of noncompliance, preparation for when (not “if”) noncompliance occurs, protection (to the extent possible) from negative consequences, detection of noncompliance, response to noncompliance and improvement of the program to better prevent, protect, prepare, detect and respond to noncompliance.\n\nAn important aspect of a high-performing program, and one that cannot be overstated, is enhancing an ethical culture. A strong ethical culture that provides important benefits would including a “safety net” for when formal controls are weak or absent, and an open environment of trust, ingredients that help drive overall workforce productivity.\n\nA well-designed compliance and ethics program is only half the picture. Critical to its success and its ability to meet the challenges of constant change, increasing complexity, rapidly evolving threats, the need for continuous improvement requires organizations to have the commitment of both senior management and the board, adequate authorization and funding, the appropriate tools to facilitate measurement and rolling-up information, comprehensive training on the measurement process and an early socialization of approach.\n\nImplementation is often the most difficult aspect of any program. This is the juncture where most failure occurs. However, if executed well, it can represent the biggest opportunity for positive influence on the organization’s performance and culture.\n\nThe engaged involvement of key stakeholders is critical to a successful implementation or major enhancement of a compliance and ethics program, i.e. the dialogue and agreement up front, by all the major parties, regarding the objectives, goals, and overall purpose of the program will be critical to the project’s eventual impact. By working together, compliance and ethics officers, executive management, and the board can help ensure a compliance and ethics program not only contributes to the improvement of the organization’s governance practices but the success of its company’s strategy as well.\n\nOne of most important conditions for an ethics program to be effectively implemented is the existence of a feeling of trust from the employees toward the organization. Organizations that present high levels of misconduct will experience lack of trust from its employees, which possible will cause high turnover among its workforce.\n\nIntegrate compliance and ethics - Address the “letter of the law” while promoting the “spirit of the law”. For some companies this means making a breach of company policy as serious as breaching laws, resulting in “internal” standards being as important as ‘mandatory’ standards.\n\nEmbed compliance and ethics risk management processes into the business - Organizations must systematically assess and prioritize present and emerging compliance and ethics risks. Such analysis should take into account the organization’s culture, compliance and ethics history, as well as industry issues. Business processes should incorporate compliance and ethics program needs. Boards should routinely discuss these risks, and how they are addressed, with management.\n\nDemonstrate leadership - The board should ensure senior management consistently communicates and models the organization’s values and behavioral expectations identified in the compliance and ethics program.\n\nRequire accountability and ownership - In order to have the compliance and ethics program “make a difference”, it should foster a corporate culture that places responsibility on individuals for their actions and motivates everyone. The board and management should ensure employees have appropriate training and information and should participate in such training themselves.\n\nProvide an open culture - Issues and problems should be, and in some cases are, required by law to be investigated and proactively managed to resolution. Unethical or illegal behavior should be addressed promptly. Employees must be required to raise and resolve violations of compliance or ethics standards. To do so, they must feel confident that they can take action without fear of retaliation. Such fears have been reduced, but not eliminated, with the introduction of the “whistleblower” protections of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Canadian equivalents. The board should inquire of management the steps they are taking to create this open culture.\n\nMeasure performance and results - Compliance and ethics processes and results should be monitored and measured. Objective data should support evaluations that are more subjective. Evaluation results should provide the basis for continually improving the program.\n\nBy using accurate, timely data on the organization’s performance, managers know whether they are moving the entity closer to its objectives. Measuring compliance and ethics program performance help organizations gauge their improvement and learn whether the company's tactics are contributing to the success of the company's strategy. Keeping the board informed is a critical activity and robust performance reporting facilitates that important effort too. An organization’s compliance and ethics program should be measured like any other critical capability.\n\nThere are numerous benefits and challenges to measuring the performance of a program. A well-known maxim is \"what gets measured gets done.” The compliance and ethics program and capability is no different.\n\nThe Open Compliance and Ethics Group, OCEG, a non-profit organization that provides a performance framework for integrating governance, compliance, risk management and culture, has developed a Measurement and Metrics Guide (MMG) for assisting in measuring and reporting on the performance of compliance and ethics programs. This measurement platform advocates that program objectives be aligned with and contribute to the enterprise objectives in a tangible way. In order to achieve desired program outcomes, an organization should design processes and practices that effectively measure program dimensions on three key dimensions: effectiveness, efficiency and responsiveness.\n\n\n\nA solid measurement system and approach should be implemented that embodies these principles: \nKey metrics and indicators should be specific/simple, measurable, actionable, relevant and timely.\n\nPerformance measurement system should be reviewed and improved on an ongoing basis. It is only by gaining experience measuring performance that the organization can really refine and improve the system.\n\nCompliance risk is the current and prospective risk to earnings or capital arising from violations of, or nonconformance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, internal policies, and procedures, or ethical standards. Compliance risk also arises in situations where the laws or rules governing certain bank products or activities of the Bank’s clients may be ambiguous or untested. This risk exposes the institution to fines, civil money penalties, payment of damages, and the voiding of contracts. Compliance risk can lead to diminished reputation, reduced franchise value, limited business opportunities, reduced expansion potential, and an inability to enforce contracts.\n\nGovernance, Risk Management, and Compliance (GRC) management capability is the solution to addressing increasing stakeholder expectations. Solid financial results are no longer sufficient. Stakeholders are demanding more. They want to know about non-financial results and the intangibles that will ensure financial growth. They want increased reporting and transparency and insight into an organization’s strategy, risks, and operations along with an understanding of the manner in which business is conducted. As with the quality movement of the mid-1980s to early 1990s, these stakeholder demands are becoming baseline expectations.\n\nCompliance and ethics practices can no longer be viewed in isolation of the rest of the organization, as some function off to the side to keep an organization out of jail. It must become part of the overall business strategy and operations, pervasive throughout the entire organization. Ultimately, taking this integrated approach will lead to better overall performance and compliance will become less of a burden on the business.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8611247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8611247", "title": "Critical Care (Star Trek: Voyager)", "text": "Critical Care (Star Trek: Voyager)\n\n\"Critical Care\" is the 151st episode of \"\", the fifth episode of the .\n\nThe Doctor's mobile emitter is stolen from \"Voyager\" by an alien trader named Gar and sold to an overcrowded hospital run by the hardnosed Administrator Chellick. When the Doctor is activated and told to get to work on the patients of overcrowded and underequipped level \"Red\", he protests his kidnapping, but must comply due to his Hippocratic oath.\n\nThe Doctor quickly learns that this hospital is run in a strict manner by a computer called the Allocator, which regulates doses of medicine to patients based on a Treatment Coefficient (TC) value assigned each patient. He is told that TV is based on a complex formula that reflects the patient's perceived value to society, rather than medical need. One patient, Tebbis, has a terminal condition that requires a drug the hospital can provide, but Tebbis's TC is too low to warrant it. When the Doctor begins to question the system, the Allocator assigns him to level \"Blue.\" Level Blue's facilities and quality of care are dramatically better and more modern than Red's. He learns the patients on this level have a much higher TC than those where Tebbis is warded, and that the Allocator prioritizes their prophylactic care over those lower-TC patients who need emergency care. The Doctor is able to convince the nurses to provide him with extra doses of medicine, which he smuggles to the lower level and administers to Tebbis and others. Chellick discovers his scheme and forcibly restricts the Doctor to Level Blue.\n\nMeanwhile, the \"Voyager\" crew tracks down Gar, who had stolen the Doctor's program, and Neelix tricks him into revealing the place where he sold the Doctor. \"Voyager\" sets course there.\n\nThe Doctor learns that Tebbis has died despite the fact that continued injections would have saved him. He figures out a means to escape Level Blue to continue to try to save the other patients in the lower levels. Chellick learns of this and arrives to stop the Doctor, but the Doctor injects him with some of Tebbis's blood, infecting him with the same condition. Mistaking him for the late Tebbis, The Allocator mistakenly assigns Chellick a low TC, preventing him from getting the proper treatment. With this leverage, the Doctor convinces Chellick to move the low-TC patients, including himself, to level Blue to receive care. \"Voyager\" arrives to rescue the Doctor as Chellick's orders are carried out. Back aboard ship, the Doctor considers if his ethics subroutines have failed as he willingly infected Chellick, but Seven of Nine assures him that for the greater good of all, the sacrifice of one can be acceptable.\n\n"}
{"id": "46904771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46904771", "title": "Crystal Cubism", "text": "Crystal Cubism\n\nCrystal Cubism (French: \"Cubisme cristal\" or \"Cubisme de cristal\") is a distilled form of Cubism consistent with a shift, between 1915 and 1916, towards a strong emphasis on flat surface activity and large overlapping geometric planes. The primacy of the underlying geometric structure, rooted in the abstract, controls practically all of the elements of the artwork.\n\nThis range of styles of painting and sculpture, especially significant between 1917 and 1920 (also referred to as the \"Crystal Period\", \"classical Cubism\", \"pure Cubism\", \"advanced Cubism\", \"late Cubism\", \"synthetic Cubism\", or the \"second phase of Cubism\"), was practiced in varying degrees by a multitude of artists; particularly those under contract with the art dealer and collector Léonce Rosenberg—Henri Laurens, Jean Metzinger, Juan Gris and Jacques Lipchitz most noticeably of all. The tightening of the compositions, the clarity and sense of order reflected in these works, led to its being referred to by the French poet and art critic Maurice Raynal as 'crystal' Cubism. Considerations manifested by Cubists prior to the outset of World War I—such as the fourth dimension, dynamism of modern life, the occult, and Henri Bergson's concept of duration—had now been vacated, replaced by a purely formal frame of reference that proceeded from a cohesive stance toward art and life.\n\nAs post-war reconstruction began, so too did a series of exhibitions at Léonce Rosenberg's Galerie de L'Effort Moderne: order and the allegiance to the aesthetically pure remained the prevailing tendency. The collective phenomenon of Cubism once again—now in its advanced revisionist form—became part of a widely discussed development in French culture. Crystal Cubism was the culmination of a continuous narrowing of scope in the name of a return to order; based upon the observation of the artists relation to nature, rather than on the nature of reality itself.\n\nCrystal Cubism, and its associative \"rappel à l’ordre\", has been linked with an inclination—by those who served the armed forces and by those who remained in the civilian sector—to escape the realities of the Great War, both during and directly following the conflict. The purifying of Cubism from 1914 through the mid-1920s, with its cohesive unity and voluntary constraints, has been linked to a much broader ideological transformation towards conservatism in both French society and French culture. In terms of the separation of culture and life, the Crystal Cubist period emerges as the most important in the history of Modernism.\n\nCubism, from its inception, stems from the dissatisfaction with the \"idea of form\" that had been in practiced since the Renaissance. This dissatisfaction had already been seen in the works of the Romanticist Eugène Delacroix, in the Realism of Gustave Courbet, in passing through the Symbolists, Les Nabis, the Impressionists and the Neo-Impressionists. Paul Cézanne was instrumental, as his work marked a shift from a more representational art form to one that was increasingly abstract, with a strong emphasis on the simplification of geometric structure. In a letter addressed to Émile Bernard dated 15 April 1904, Cézanne writes: \"Interpret nature in terms of the cylinder, the sphere, the cone; put everything in perspective, so that each side of an object, of a plane, recedes toward a central point.\"\n\nCézanne was preoccupied by the means of rendering volume and space, surface variations (or modulations) with overlapped shifting planes. Increasingly in his later works, Cézanne achieves a greater freedom. His work became bolder, more arbitrary, more dynamic and increasingly nonrepresentational. As his color planes acquired greater formal independence, defined objects and structures began to lose their identity.\n\nArtists at the forefront of the Parisian art scene at the outset of the 20th century would not fail to notice the tendencies toward abstraction inherent in the work of Cézanne, and ventured still further. A reevaluation in their own work in relation to that of Cézanne had begun following a series of retrospective exhibitions of Cézanne's paintings held at the Salon d'Automne of 1904, the Salon d'Automne of 1905 and 1906, followed by two commemorative retrospectives after his death in 1907. By 1907, representational form gave way to a new complexity; subject matter progressively became dominated by a network of interconnected geometric planes, the distinction between foreground and background no longer sharply delineated, and the depth of field limited.\n\nFrom the 1911 Salon des Indépendants, an exhibition which officially introduced \"Cubism\" to the public as an organized group movement, and extending through 1913, the fine arts had evolved well beyond the teachings of Cézanne. Where before, the foundational pillars of academicism had been shaken, now they had been toppled. \"It was a total regeneration\", writes Gleizes, \"indicating the emergence of a wholly new cast of mind. Every season it appeared renewed, growing like a living body. Its enemies could, eventually, have forgiven it if only it had passed away, like a fashion; but they became even more violent when they realized that it was destined to live a life that would be longer than that of those painters who had been the first to assume the responsibility for it\". \nThe evolution towards rectilinearity and simplified forms continued through 1909 with greater emphasis on clear geometric principles; visible in the works of Pablo Picasso, Georges Braque, Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Henri Le Fauconnier and Robert Delaunay.\n\nThe Cubist method leading to 1912 has been considered 'analytical', entailing the decomposition of the subject matter (the study of things), while subsequently 'synthetic', built on geometric construction (free of such primary study). The terms Analytic Cubism and Synthetic Cubism originated through this distinction. By 1913 Cubism had transformed itself considerably in the range of spatial effects. At the 1913 Salon des Indépendants Jean Metzinger exhibited his monumental \"L'Oiseau bleu\"; Robert Delaunay \"L'équipe du Cardiff F.C.\"; Fernand Léger \"Le modèle nu dans l'atelier\"; Juan Gris \"L'Homme au Café\"; and Albert Gleizes \"Les Joueurs de football\". At the 1913 Salon d'Automne, a salon in which the predominating tendency was Cubism, Metzinger exhibited \"En Canot\"; Gleizes \"Les Bâteaux de Pêche\"; and Roger de La Fresnaye \"La Conquête de l'Air\". In these works, more so than before, can be seen the importance of the geometric plane in the overall composition.\n\nHistorically, the first phase of Cubism is identified as much by the inventions of Picasso and Braque (amongst the so-called Gallery Cubists) as it is with the common interests towards geometrical structure of Metzinger, Gleizes, Delaunay and Le Fauconnier (the Salon Cubists). As Cubism would evolve pictorially, so too would the crystallization of its theoretical framework advance beyond the guidelines set out in the Cubist manifesto \"Du \"Cubisme\"\", written by Albert Gleizes and Jean Metzinger in 1912; though \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" would remain the clearest and most intelligible definition of Cubism.\n\nAt the outset of the First World War many artists were mobilized: Metzinger, Gleizes, Braque, Léger, de La Fresnaye, and Duchamp-Villon. Despite the brutal interruption, each found the time to continue making art, sustaining differing types of Cubism. Yet they discovered a ubiquitous link between the Cubist syntax (beyond pre-war attitudes) and that of the anonymity and novelty of mechanized warfare. Cubism evolved as much a result of an \"evasion\" of the inconceivable atrocities of war as of nationalistic pressures. Along with the evasion came the need to diverge further and further away from the depiction of things. As the rift between art and life grew, so too came the burgeoning need for a process of distillation.\nThis period of profound reflection contributed to the constitution of a new mindset; a prerequisite for fundamental change. The \"flat surface\" became the starting point for a revaluation of the fundamental principles of painting. Rather than relying on the purely intellectual, the focus now was on the immediate experience of the senses, based on the idea according to Gleizes, that form, 'changing the directions of its movement, will change its dimensions' [\"La forme, modifiant ses directions, modifiait ses dimensions\"], while revealing the \"basic elements\" of painting, the \"true, solid rules - rules which could be generally applied\". It was Metzinger and Gris who, again according to Gleizes, \"did more than anyone else to fix the basic elements... the first principles of the order that was being born\". \"But Metzinger, clear-headed as a physicist, had already discovered those rudiments of construction without which nothing can be done.\" Ultimately, it was Gleizes who would take the synthetic factor furthest of all.\n\nThe divers Cubist considerations manifested prior to World War I—such as the fourth dimension, dynamism of modern life, and Henri Bergson's concept of duration—had now been replaced by a formal reference frame which constituted the second phase of Cubism, based upon an elementary set of principles that formed a cohesive Cubist aesthetic. This clarity and sense of order spread to almost all of the artists exhibiting at Léonce Rosenberg's gallery—including Jean Metzinger, Juan Gris, Jacques Lipchitz, Henry Laurens, Auguste Herbin, Joseph Csaky, Gino Severini and Pablo Picasso—leading to the descriptive term 'Crystal Cubism', coined by Maurice Raynal, an early promoter of Cubism and continuous supporter during the war and post-war phase that followed. Raynal had been associated with Cubists since 1910 via the milieu of Le Bateau-Lavoir. Raynal, who would become one of the Cubists most authoritative and articulate proponents, endorsed a wide range of Cubist activity and for those who produced it, but his highest esteem was directed toward two artists: Jean Metzinger, whose artistry Raynal equated with Renoir and who was 'perhaps the man who, in our epoch, knows best how to paint'. The other was Juan Gris, who was 'certainly the fiercest of the purists in the group'.\n\nIn 1915, while serving on the front line, Raynal suffered a minor shrapnel wound to the knee from exploding enemy artillery fire, though the injury did not necessitate his evacuation. Upon returning from the front line, Raynal served briefly as director for publications of Rosenberg's l'Effort moderne. For Raynal, research into art was based on an eternal truth, rather than on the ideal, on reality, or on certitude. Certitude was nothing more than based on a relative belief, while truth was in agreement with fact. The only belief was in the veracity of philosophical and scientific truths.\n\"Direct reference to observed reality\" is present, but the emphasis is placed on the \"self-sufficiency\" of the artwork as objects unto themselves. The priority on \"orderly qualities\" and the \"autonomous purity\" of compositions are a prime concern, writes art historian Christopher Green. Crystal Cubism also coincided with the emergence of a methodical framework of theoretical essays on the topic, by Albert Gleizes, Juan Gris, Fernand Léger, Gino Severini, Pierre Reverdy, Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler, and Maurice Raynal.\n\nEven before Raynal coined the term Crystal Cubism, one critic by the name of Aloës Duarvel, writing in \"L'Elan\", referred to Metzinger's entry exhibited at Galerie Bernheim-Jeune as 'jewellery' (\"joaillerie\"). Another critic, Aurel, writing in \"L'Homme Enchaîné\" about the same December 1915 exhibition described Metzinger's entry as \"a very erudite divagation of horizon blue and old red of glory, in the name of which I forgive him\" [\"une divagation fort érudite en bleu horizon et vieux rouge de gloire, au nom de quoi je lui pardonne\"].\n\nDuring the year 1916, Sunday discussions at the studio of Lipchitz, included Metzinger, Gris, Picasso, Diego Rivera, Henri Matisse, Amedeo Modigliani, Pierre Reverdy, André Salmon, Max Jacob, and Blaise Cendrars.\n\nIn a letter written in Paris by Metzinger to Albert Gleizes in Barcelona during the war, dated 4 July 1916, he writes:\nAfter two years of study I have succeeded in establishing the basis of this new perspective I have talked about so much. It is not the materialist perspective of Gris, nor the romantic perspective of Picasso. It is rather a metaphysical perspective—I take full responsibility for the word. You can't begin to imagine what I've found out since the beginning of the war, working outside painting but for painting. The geometry of the fourth space has no more secret for me. Previously I had only intuitions, now I have certainty. I have made a whole series of theorems on the laws of displacement [\"déplacement\"], of reversal [\"retournement\"] etc. I have read Schoute, Rieman (sic), Argand, Schlegel etc.\n\nThe actual result? A new harmony. Don't take this word harmony in its ordinary [\"banal\"] everyday sense, take it in its original [\"primitif\"] sense. Everything is number. The mind [\"esprit\"] hates what cannot be measured: it must be reduced and made comprehensible.\n\nThat is the secret. There in nothing more to it [\"pas de reste à l'opération\"]. Painting, sculpture, music, architecture, \"lasting art\" is never anything more than a mathematical expression of the relations that exist between the internal and the external, the self [\"le moi\"] and the world. (Metzinger, 4 July 1916)\n\nThe 'new perspective' according to Daniel Robbins, \"was a mathematical relationship between the ideas in his mind and the exterior world\". The 'fourth space' for Metzinger was the space of the mind.\nIn a second letter to Gleizes, dated 26 July 1916, Metzinger writes:\nIf painting was an end in itself it would enter into the category of the minor arts which appeal only to physical pleasure... No. Painting is a language—and it has its syntax and its laws. To shake up that framework a bit to give more strength or life to what you want to say, that isn't just a right, it's a duty; but you must never lose sight of the End. The End, however, isn't the subject, nor the object, nor even the picture—the End, it is the idea. (Metzinger, 26 July 1916)\n\nContinuing, Metzinger mentions the differences between himself and Juan Gris:\nSomeone from whom I feel ever more distant is Juan Gris. I admire him but I cannot understand why he wears himself out with decomposing objects. Myself, I am advancing towards synthetic unity and I don't analyze any more. I take from things what seems to me to have meaning and be most suitable to express my thought. I want to be direct, like Voltaire. No more metaphors. Ah those stuffed tomatoes of all the St-Pol-Roux of painting.\n\nSome of the ideas expressed in these letters to Gleizes were reproduced in an article written by the writer, poet, and critique Paul Dermée, published in the magazine \"SIC\" in 1919, but the existence of letters themselves remained unknown until the mid-1980s.\n\nWhile Metzinger's process of distillation is already noticeable during the latter half of 1915, and conspicuously extending into early 1916, this shift is signaled in the works of Gris and Lipchitz from the latter half of 1916, and particularly between 1917 and 1918. Metzinger's radical geometrization of form as an underlying architectural basis for his 1915-16 compositions is already visible in his work circa 1912-13, in paintings such as \"Au Vélodrome\" (1912) and \"Le Fumeur\" (c.1913). Where before, the perception of depth had been greatly reduced, now, the depth of field was no greater than a bas-relief.\n\nMetzinger's evolution toward synthesis has its origins in the configuration of flat squares, trapezoidal and rectangular planes that overlap and interweave, a \"new perspective\" in accord with the \"laws of displacement\". In the case of \"Le Fumeur\" Metzinger filled in these simple shapes with gradations of color, wallpaper-like patterns and rhythmic curves. So too in \"Au Vélodrome\". But the underlying armature upon which all is built is palpable. Vacating these non-essential features would lead Metzinger on a path towards \"Soldier at a Game of Chess\" (1914–15), and a host of other works created after the artist's demobilization as a medical orderly during the war, such as \"L'infirmière\" (\"The Nurse\") location unknown, and \"Femme au miroir\", private collection.\n\nIf the beauty of a painting solely depends on its pictorial qualities: only retaining certain elements, those that seem to suit our need for expression, then with these elements, building a new object, an object which we can adapt to the surface of the painting without subterfuge. If that object looks like something known, I take it increasingly for something of no use. For me it is enough for it to be \"well done\", to have a perfect accord between the parts and the whole. (Jean Metzinger, quoted in \"Au temps des Cubistes, 1910-1920\")\n\nFor Metzinger, the Crystal period was synonymous with a return to \"a simple, robust art\". Crystal Cubism represented an opening up of possibilities. His belief was that technique should be simplified and that the \"trickery\" of chiaroscuro should abandoned, along with the \"artifices of the palette\". He felt the need to do without the \"multiplication of tints and detailing of forms without reason, by feeling\":\n\nJuan Gris' late arrival on the Cubist scene (1912) saw him influenced by the leaders of the movement: Picasso, of the 'Gallery Cubists' and Metzinger of the 'Salon Cubists'. His entry at the 1912 Salon des Indépendants, \"Hommage à Pablo Picasso\", was also an homage to Metzinger's \"Le goûter (Tea Time)\". \"Le goûter\" persuaded Gris of the importance of mathematics (numbers) in painting.\n\nAs art historian Peter Brooke points out, Gris started painting persistently in 1911 and first exhibited at the 1912 Salon des Indépendants (a painting entitled \"Hommage à Pablo Picasso\"). \"He appears with two styles\", writes Brooke, \"In one of them a grid structure appears that is clearly reminiscent of the \"Goûter\" and of Metzinger's later work in 1912. In the other, the grid is still present but the lines are not stated and their continuity is broken\". Art historian Christopher Green writes that the \"deformations of lines\" allowed by mobile perspective in the head of Metzinger's \"Tea-time\" and Gleizes's \"Portrait of Jacques Nayral\" \"have seemed tentative to historians of Cubism. In 1911, as the key area of likeness and unlikeness, they more than anything released the laughter.\" Green continues, \"This was the wider context of Gris's decision at the Indépendants of 1912 to make his debut with a \"Homage to Pablo Picasso\", which was a portrait, and to do so with a portrait that responded to Picasso's portraits of 1910 through the intermediary of Metzinger's \"Tea-time\". While Metzinger's distillation is noticeable during the latter half of 1915 and early 1916, this shift is signaled in the works of Gris and Lipchitz from the latter half of 1916, and particularly between 1917 and 1918.\nKahnweiler dated the shift in style of Juan Gris to the summer and autumn of 1916, following the \"pointilliste\" paintings of early 1916; in which Gris brought into practice Divisionist theory via the incorporation of colored dots into his Cubist pictures. This timescale corresponds with the period after which Gris signed a contract with Léonce Rosenberg, following a rally of support by Henri Laurens, Lipchitz and Metzinger.\n\n\"Here is the man who has meditated on everything modern\", writes Guillaume Apollinaire in his 1913 publication \"The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations\", \"here is the painter who paints to conceive only new structures, whose aim is to draw or paint nothing but materially pure forms\". Apollinaire compares the work of Gris with the \"scientific cubism\" of Picasso... \"Juan Gris is content with purity, scientifically conceived. The conceptions of Juan Gris are always pure, and from this purity parallels are sure to spring\". And spring they did. In 1916, drawing from black and white postcards representing works by Corot, Velázquez and Cézanne, Gris created a series of classical (traditionalist) Cubist figure paintings, employing a purified range of pictorial and structural features. These works set the tone for his quest of an ideal unity for the next five years.\n\"These themes of pictorial architecture and the \"constants\" of tradition were consolidated and integrated\", writes Green \"et al\"; \"The inference was there to be drawn: to restore tradition was to restore not only an old subject-matter in new terms, but to find the unchanging principles of structure in painting. Cohesion in space (composition) and cohesion in time (Corot \"in\" Gris) were presented as a single, fundamental truth\". Gris himself stressed the relativity and ephemerality of \"truth\" in his paintings (as a function of him) as in the world itself (as a function of society, culture and time); always susceptible to change.\n\nFrom 1915 to late 1916, Gris transited through three different styles of Cubism, writes Green: \"starting with a solid extrapolation of the structures and materials of objects, moving into the placement of brilliant coloured dots drifting across flat signs for still-life objects, and culminating in a flattened 'chiaroscoro' realised in planar contrasts of a monochromatic palette\".\n\nGris's works from late 1916 through 1917, more so than before, exhibit a simplification of geometric structure, a blurring of the distinction between objects and setting, between subject matter and background. The oblique overlapping planar constructions, tending away from equilibrium, can best be seen in the artists \"Woman with Mandolin, after Corot\" (September 1916) and in its epilogue \"Portrait of Josette Gris\" (October 1916).\nThe clear-cut underlying geometric framework of these works seemingly control the finer elements of the compositions; the constituent components, including the small planes of the faces, become part of the unified whole. Though Gris certainly had planned the representation of his chosen subject matter, the abstract armature serves as the starting point. The geometric structure of Juan Gris's Crystal period is already palpable in \"Still Life before an Open Window, Place Ravignan\" (June 1915). The overlapping elemental planar structure of the composition serves as a foundation to flatten the individual elements onto a unifying surface, foretelling the shape of things to come. In 1919 and particularly 1920, artists and critics began to write conspicuously about this 'synthetic' approach, and asserting its importance in the overall scheme of advanced Cubism.\n\nIn April 1919, following exhibitions by Laurens, Metzinger, Léger and Braque, Gris present nearly fifty works at Rosenberg's Galerie de l'Effort moderne. This first solo exhibition by Gris coincided with his prominence among the Parisian avant-garde. Gris was presented to the public as one of the 'purest' and one of the most 'classical' of the leading Cubists.\nGris claimed to manipulate flat abstract planar surfaces first, and only in subsequent stages of his painting process would he 'qualify' them so that the subject-matter became readable. He worked 'deductively' on the global concept first, then consecrated on the perceptive details. Gris referred to this technique as 'synthetic', in contradistinction from the process of 'analysis' intrinsic to his earlier works.\n\nGris's open window series of 1921-22 appears to be a response to Picasso's open windows of 1919, painted in St. Raphael. By May 1927, the date of his death, Gris had been considered \"the\" leader of the second phase of Cubism (the Crystal period).\n\nWhile Metzinger and Gris were painting in advanced geometric form during the second phase of Cubism, Picasso worked on several projects simultaneously. Between 1915 and 1917, he began a series of paintings depicting highly geometric and minimalist Cubist objects, consisting of either a pipe, a guitar or a glass, with an occasional element of collage. \"Hard-edged square-cut diamonds\", notes art historian John Richardson, \"these gems do not always have upside or downside\". \"We need a new name to designate them,\" wrote Picasso to Gertrude Stein: Maurice Raynal suggested \"Crystal Cubism\". These \"little gems\" may have been produced by Picasso in response to critics who had claimed his defection from the movement, through his experimentation with classicism within the so-called return to order.\n\nJoseph Csaky enlisted as a volunteer in the French army in 1914, fighting alongside French soldiers during World War I, and remained for the duration. Returning to Paris in 1918, Csaky began a series of Cubist sculptures derived in part from a machine-like aesthetic; streamlined with geometric and mechanical affinities. By this time Csaky's artistic vocabulary had evolved considerably from his pre-war Cubism: it was distinctly mature, showing a new, refined sculptural quality. Few works of early modern sculpture are comparable to the work Csaky produced in the years directly succeeding World War I. These were nonrepresentational freely-standing objects, i.e., abstract three-dimensional constructions combining organic and geometric elements. \"Csaky derived from nature forms which were in concordance with his passion for architecture, simple, pure, and psychologically convincing.\" (Maurice Raynal, 1929)\n\nThe scholar Edith Balas writes of Csaky's sculpture following the war years:\n\n\"Csáky, more than anyone else working in sculpture, took Pierre Reverdy's theoretical writings on art and cubist doctrine to heart. \"Cubism is an eminently plastic art; but an art of creation, not of reproduction and interpretation.\" The artist was to take no more than \"elements\" from the external world, and intuitively arrive at the \"idea\" of objects made up of what for him constant in value. Objects were not to be analyzed; neither were the experiences they evoked. They were to be re-created in the mind, and thereby purified. By some unexplained miracle the \"pure\" forms of the mind, an entirely autonomous vocabulary, of (usual geometric) forms, would make contact with the external world.\" (Balas, 1998, p. 27)\n\nThese 1919 works (e.g., \"Cones and Spheres, Abstract Sculpture\", Balas, pp. 30–41) are made of juxtaposing sequences of rhythmic geometric forms, where light and shadow, mass and the void, play a key role. Though almost entirely abstract, they allude, occasionally, to the structure of the human body or modern machines, but the semblance functions only as \"elements\" (Reverdy) and are deprived of descriptive narrative. Csaky's polychrome reliefs of the early 1920s display an affinity with Purism—an extreme form of the Cubism aesthetic developing at the time—in their rigorous economy of architectonic symbols and the use of crystalline geometric structures.\n\nCsaky's \"Deux figures\", 1920, Kröller-Müller Museum, employs broad planar surfaces accented by descriptive linear elements comparable to Georges Valmier's work of the following year (\"Figure\" 1921). Csaky's influences were drawn more from the art of ancient Egypt rather than from French Neoclassicism.\nWith this intense flurry of activity, Csaky was taken on by Léonce Rosenberg, and exhibited regularly at the Galerie l'Effort Moderne. By 1920 Rosenberg was the sponsor, dealer and publisher of Piet Mondrian, Léger, Lipchitz and Csaky. He had just published \"Le Néo-Plasticisme\"—a collection of writings by Mondrian—and Theo van Doesburg's \"Classique-Baroque-Moderne\". Csaky's showed a series of works at Rosenberg's gallery in December 1920.\nFor the following three years, Rosenberg purchased Csaky's entire artistic production. In 1921 Rosenberg organized an exhibit titled \"Les maîtres du Cubisme\", a group show that featured works by Csaky, Gleizes, Metzinger, Mondrian, Gris, Léger, Picasso, Laurens, Braque, Herbin, Severini, Valmier, Ozenfant and Survage.\n\nCsaky's works of the early 1920s reflect a distinct form of Crystal Cubism, and were produced in a wide variety of materials, including marble, onyx and rock crystal. They reflect a collective spirit of the time, \"a puritanical denial of sensuousness that reduced the cubist vocabulary to rectangles, verticals, horizontals,\" writes Balas, \"a Spartan alliance of discipline and strength\" to which Csaky adhered in his \"Tower Figures.\" \"In their aesthetic order, lucidity, classical precision, emotional neutrality, and remoteness from visible reality, they should be considered stylistically and historically as belonging to the De Stijl movement.\" (Balas, 1998)\n\nJacques Lipchitz recounted a meeting during the First World War with the poet and writer close to the Abbaye de Créteil, Jules Romains:\n\nI remember in 1915 when I was deeply involved in cubist sculpture but was still in many ways not certain of what I was doing, I had a visit from the writer Jules Romains, and he asked me what I was trying to do. I answered, \"I would like to make an art as pure as a crystal.\" And he answered in a slightly mocking way, \"What do you know about crystals?\" At first I was upset by this remark and his attitude, but then, as I began to think about it, I realized that I knew nothing about crystals except that they were a form of inorganic life and that this was not what I wanted to make.\n\nBoth Lipchitz and Henri Laurens—late adherents to Cubist sculpture, following Alexander Archipenko, Joseph Csaky, Umberto Boccioni, Otto Gutfreund and Picasso—began production in late 1914, and 1915 (respectively), taking Cubist paintings of 1913-14 as a starting point. Both Lipchitz and Laurens retained highly figurative and legible components in their works leading up to 1915-16, after which naturalist and descriptive elements were muted, dominated by a synthetic style of Cubism under the influence of Picasso and Gris.\n\nBetween 1916 and 1918 Lipchitz and Laurens developed a breed of advanced wartime Cubism (primarily in sculpture) that represented a process of purification. With observed reality no longer the basis for the depiction of subject, model or motif, Lipchitz and Laurens created works that excluded any starting point, based predominantly on the imagination, and continued to do so during the transition from war to peace.\n\nIn December 1918 Laurens, a close friend of both Picasso and Braque, inaugurated the series of Cubist exhibitions at L'Effort Moderne (Lipchitz showed in 1920), by which time his works had wholly approached the Cubist \"retour à l'ordre\". Rather than descriptive, these works were rooted in geometric abstraction; a species of architectural, polychromed multimedia Cubist constructions.\n\nFrom its first public exhibition in 1911, art critic Louis Vauxcelles had voiced his contempt for Cubism. In June 1918, Vauxcelles, writing under the pseudonym Pinturrichio, continued his attack:\nIntegral Cubism is crumbling, vanishing, evaporating. Defections, every day, reach the headquarters of pure painting. Soon Metzinger will be the last of his species, representative of an abandoned doctrine. \"And if one shall remain, he'll whisper painfully, I'll be the one\". (Vauxcelles, 1918)\n\nThe following month, Vauxcelles forecast the final demise of Cubism by the fall of 1918. With the fall came the end of the war, and in December, a series of exhibitions at Galerie l'Effort Moderne of Cubist works demonstrated that Cubism was still alive.\n\nDefections by Diego Rivera and from the Cubist circle, cited by Pinturrichio, proved to be insufficient grounds upon which to base his prediction. Vauxcelles even went as far as organizing a small exhibition at the galerie Blot (late 1918) of artists that appeared to be anti-Cubist; Lhote, Rivera and Favory among them. Allies in Vauxcelles ongoing battle against Cubism included Jean-Gabriel Lemoine (\"L'Intransigeant\"), Roland Chavenon (\"L'Information\"), Gustave Kahn (\"L'Heure\"), and Waldemar George (), who would soon become one of the leading post-war supporters of Cubism.\n\nInversely, once a steadfast supporter of Cubism, André Salmon in 1917-18 predicted too its demise; claiming it to have been merely a phase leading to a new art-form more closely attuned with nature. Two more former advocates of Cubism had also defected, and Blaise Cendrars, joining the ranks of Vauxcelles in frontline attacks on Cubism. Allard reproached the visible distancing of Cubism from the dynamism and diversity of lived experience toward a universe of purified objects. Similarly, Cendrars wrote in an article published May 1919 \"The formulae of the Cubists' are becoming too narrow, and can no longer embrace the personality of the painters\".\n\nThe poet and theorist Pierre Reverdy had surpassed all rivals in his attacks on the anti-Cubist campaign between 1918 and 1919. He had been in close contact with the Cubists prior to the war, and in 1917 joined forces with two other poets who shared his points of view: Paul Dermée and Vicente Huidobro. In March of the same year Reverdy edited \"Nord-Sud\". The title of the magazine was inspired by the Paris Métro line that extended from Montmartre to Montparnasse, linking these two focal points of artistic creativity. Reverdy began this project towards the end of 1916, with an art world still under the pressures of war, to show the parallels between the poetic theories of Guillaume Apollinaire of Max Jacob and himself in marking the burgeoning of a new era for poetry and artistic reflection. In \"Nord-Sud\" Reverdy, with the help of Dermée and Georges Braque, exposed his literary theories, and outlined a coherent theoretical stance on the latest developments in Cubism. His treatise \"On Cubism\", published in the first issue of \"Nord-Sud\", did so perhaps most influentially. With his characteristic preference for offense rather than defense, Reverdy launched an attack against Vauxcelles' anti-Cubist crusade:\n\nHow many times has it been said that the art movement called Cubism is extinguished? Each time that a purge occurs the critics of the other side, who ask only that their desires be taken as facts, shout defection and howl for its death. This is nothing basically but a ruse, because Pinturrichichio [\"sic\"], of the \"Carnet de la Semaine\" and the others know very well that the serious artists of this group are extremely happy to see go... those opportunists who have taken over creations the significance of which they do not even comprehend, and were attracted only by the love of buzz and personal interest. It was predictable that these unrecommendable and compromising people would renounce their endeavors sooner or later. (Reverdy, 1918)\nAnother vigorous supporter of Cubism was the art dealer and collector Léonce Rosenberg. By the end of 1918—filling in the vacuum left in the wake of D.-H. Kahnweiler's imposed exile—Rosenberg purchased works by almost all of the Cubists. His defense of Cubism would prove to be longer-lasting and wider-ranging than Reverdy's. His first tactical maneuver was to address a letter to \"Le Carnet de la Semaine\" denying the chimerical claim made by Vauxcelles that both Picasso and Gris had defected. Much more poignant and difficult to combat, however, was his second tactical maneuver: a succession of prominent Cubist exhibitions held at the Galerie de L'Effort Moderne, in Rosenber's Hôtel particulier, 19, rue de la Baume, located in the elegant and stylishly fashionable 8th arrondissement of Paris.\n\nThis series of large exhibitions—including works created between 1914 and 1918 by almost all the major Cubists—began 18 December with Cubist sculptures by Henri Laurens, followed in January 1919 with an exhibition of Cubist paintings by Jean Metzinger, Fernand Léger in February, Georges Braque in March, Juan Gris April, Gino Severini May, and Pablo Picasso in June, marking the climax of the campaign. This well-orchestrated program showed that Cubism was still very much alive, and it would remain so for at least a half-decade. Missing from this sequence of exhibitions were Jacques Lipchitz (who would exhibit in 1920), and those who had left France during the Great War: Robert Delaunay and Albert Gleizes most obviously. Nonetheless, according to Christopher Green, \"this was an astonishingly complete demonstration that Cubism had not only continued between 1914 and 1917, having survived the war, but was still developing in 1918 and 1919 in its \"new collective form\" marked by \"intellectual rigor\". In the face of such a display of vigour, it really was difficult to maintain convincingly that Cubism was even close to extinction\".\n\nFurther evidence to bolster the prediction made by Vauxcelles could have been found in a small exhibition at the Galerie Thomas (in a space owned by a sister of Paul Poiret, ). \"The first exhibition of Purist Art\" opened on 21 December 1918, with works by Amédée Ozenfant and Charles-Édouard Jeanneret (later called Le Corbusier), who claimed to be successors of pre-war Cubism. The beginnings of a Purist manifesto in book-form had been published to coincided with the exhibition, titled \"Après le cubisme\" (After Cubism):\n\nThe War over, everything organizes, everything is clarified and purified; factories rise, already nothing remains as it was before the War: the great Competition has tested everything and everyone, it has gotten rid of the aging methods and imposed in their place others that the struggle has proven their betters... toward rigor, toward precision, toward the best utilization of forces and materials, with the least waste, in sum a tendency toward purity.\nOzenfant and Jeanneret felt that Cubism had become too decorative, practiced by so many individuals that it lacked unity, it had become too fashionable. Their clarity of subject matter (more figurative, less abstract than the Cubists) had been welcomed by members of the anti-Cubist camp. They showed works that were a direct result of observation; perspectival space only slightly distorted. Ozenfant and Jeanneret, like Lhote, remained faithful to the Cubist idiom that form should not be abandoned. Some of the works exhibited related directly to the Cubism practiced during the war (such as Ozenfant's \"Bottle, Pipe and Books\", 1918), with flatted planar structures and varying degrees of multiple perspective.\n\nFor Ozenfant and Jeanneret only Crystal Cubism had conserved the geometric rigor of the early Cubist revolution. In 1915, in collaboration with Max Jacob and Guillaume Apollinaire, Ozenfant founded the magazine \"L'Élan\", which he edited until late 1916. In 1917 he met Jeanneret, with whom he would join forces between 1918 and 1925 on a venture called Purism: a variation of Cubism in both painting and architecture.\n\nIn collaboration with the pro-Cubist writer, poet, and critique Paul Dermée, Ozenfant and Jeanneret founded the avant-garde journal \"L'Esprit Nouveau\", published from 1920 to 1925. In the last issue, Jeanneret, under the pseudonym Paul Boulard, writes of how the laws of nature were manifested in the shape of crystals; the properties of which were hermetically coherent, both interiorly and exteriorly. In \"La peinture moderne\", under the title \"Vers le crystal\", Ozenfant and Jeanneret liken the properties of crystals with the true Cubist, whose œuvre tends toward the crystal.\n\nCertain Cubists have created paintings that can be said to tend toward the perfection of the crystal. These works seem to approach our current needs. The crystal is, in nature, a phenomenon that affects us most because it clearly shows the path to geometric organization. Nature sometimes shows us how forms are built through a reciprocal interplay of internal and external forces... following the theoretical forms of geometry; and man delights in these arrangements because he finds in them justification for his abstract conceptions of geometry: the spirit of man and nature find a factor of common ground, in the crystal... In true Cubism, there something organic that proceeds from the inside to the outside... The universality of the work depends on its plastic purity. (Ozenfant and Jeanneret, 1923-25)\n\nA second Purist exhibition was held at the Galerie Druet, Paris, in 1921. In 1924 Ozenfant opened a free studio in Paris with Fernand Léger, where he taught with Aleksandra Ekster and Marie Laurencin. Ozenfant and Le Corbusier wrote \"La Peinture moderne\" in 1925.\n\nIn final issue of \"L'élan\", published December 1916, Ozenfant writes: \"Le Cubisme est un movement de purism\" (Cubism is a movement of purism).\n\nAnd in \"La peinture moderne\", 1923-25, with Cubism visibly still alive and in highly crystalline form, Ozenfant and Jeanneret write:\n\nWe see the real cubists continue their work, imperturbable; they are also seen to continue their influence on spirits... They will arrive more or less strongly depending on the oscillations of their nature, their tenacity or their concessions and analysis [\"tâtonnement\"] that are characteristic of artistic creation, to search for a state of clarification, condensation, firmness, intensity, synthesis; they will arrive at a true virtuosity of the game of shapes and colors, as well as a highly developed science of the composition. Overall and despite the personal coefficients, one can discern a tendency towards what might be imaged in saying: \"tendency toward the crystal\".\n\nThe Crystal Cubists embraced the stability of everyday life, the enduring and the pure, but too the classical, with all that it signified respecting art and ideal. Order and clarity, right to the core of its Latin roots, was a dominant factor within the circle of Rosenberg's L'Effort moderne. While Lhote, Rivera, Ozenfant and Le Corbusier attempted to attain a compromise between the abstract and nature in their search for another Cubism, all of the Cubists shared common goals. The first, writes Green: \"that art should not be concerned with the description of nature... The rejection of Naturalism was intimately bound up with the second basic principle shared by them all: that the work of art, being not an interpretation of anything else, was something in its own right with its own laws\". These same sentiments observable from the outset of Cubism were now essential and prevailing to an extent never before seen. There was a third principle that followed from the former that came to light during the Crystal period, again according to Green: \"the principle that nature should be approached as no more than the supplier of 'elements' to be pictorially or sculpturally developed and then freely manipulated according to the laws of the medium alone\".\n\nAlbert Gleizes had been in New York, Bermuda and Barcelona following a short stint serving the military at the fortress city of Toul, late 1914 early 1915. His arrival in Paris after his self-imposed exile saw the new style already underway. Yet independently, Gleizes had been working in a similar direction as early as 1914-15: \"Portrait of an Army Doctor (Portrait d'un médecin militaire)\", 1914-15 (Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum); \"Musician (Florent Schmitt)\", 1915 (Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum); and with a much more ambitious subject matter: \"Le Port de New York\", 1917 (Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum).\n\nGleizes' mobilization was not a major obstacle to his production of artwork, though, working primarily on small scale, he did produce one relatively large piece: \"Portrait of an Army Doctor\". An admirer of his work, his commanding officer—the regimental surgeon portrayed by Gleizes in this painting—made arrangements so that Gleizes could continue to paint while mobilized at Toul. This work, a precursor to Crystal Cubism, consists of broad, overlapping planes of brilliant color, dynamically intersecting vertical, diagonal, horizontal lines coupled with circular movements. These two works, according to Gleizes, represented a break from 'Cubism of analysis', from the representation of volume of the first period of Cubism. He had now undertaken a path that lead to 'synthesis', with its starting point in 'unity'.\nThis unity, and the highly crystalline geometricized materialization consisting of superimposed constituent planes of Crystal Cubism would ultimately be described by Gleizes, in \"La Peinture et ses lois\" (1922–23), as 'simultaneous movements of translation and rotation of the plane'. The synthetic factor was ultimately taken furthest of all from within the Cubists by Gleizes.\n\nGleizes believed that the Crystal Cubists—specifically Metzinger and Gris—had found the principles on which an essentially non-representational art could be built. He felt that the earlier abstract works of artists such as František Kupka and , lacked a solid foundation.\n\nIn his 1920 publication, \"Du Cubisme et les moyens de le comprendre\", Gleizes explained that Cubism was now at a stage of development in which fundamental principles could be deduced from particular facts, applicable to a defined class of phenomena, drawn and taught to students. These basic theoretical postulates could be as productive for future developments of the fine arts as the mathematically based principles of three-dimensional perspective had been since the Renaissance.\n\nAlbert Gleizes undertook the task of writing the characterizations of these principles in \"Painting and its Laws\" (\"La Peinture et ses lois\"), published by gallery owner Jacques Povolozky in the journal \"La Vie des lettres et des arts\", 1922-3, and as a book in 1924.\n\nIn \"La Peinture et ses lois\" Gleizes deduces the fundamental laws of painting from the picture plane, its proportions, the movement of the human eye and the physical laws. This theory, subsequently referred to as \"translation-rotation\", \"ranks with the writings of Mondrian and Malevich\", writes art historian Daniel Robbins, \"as one of the most thorough expositions of the principles of abstract art, which in his case entailed the rejection not only of representation but also of geometric forms\".\n\nOne of Gleizes's primary objectives was to answer the questions: How will the planar surface be animated, and by what logical method, independent of the artists \"fantaisie\", can it be attained?\nThe approach:\nGleizes bases these laws both on truisms inherent throughout the history of art, and especially on his own experience since 1912, such as: \"The primary goal of art has never been exterior imitation\" (p. 31); \"Artworks come from emotion... the product of individual sensibility and taste\" (p. 42); \"The artist is always in a state of emotion, sentimental exaltation [ivresse]\" (p. 43); \"The painting in which the idea of abstract creation is realized is no longer an anecdote, but a concrete fact\" (p. 56); \"Creating a painted artwork is not the emission of an opinion\" (p. 59); \"The plastic dynamism will be born out of rhythmic relations between objects... establishing novel plastic liaisons between purely objective elements that compose the painting\" (p. 22).\n\nContinuing, Gleizes states that the 'reality' of a painting is not that of a mirror, but of the object... issue of imminent logic (p. 62). \"The subject-pretext tending toward numeration, inscribed following the nature of the plane, attains a tangent intersections between known images of the natural world and unknown images that reside within intuition\" (p. 63).\n\nDefining the laws:\nRhythm and space are for Gleizes the two vital conditions. Rhythm is a consequence of the continuity of certain phenomena, variable or invariable, following from mathematical relations. Space is a conception of the human psyche that follows from quantitative comparisons (pp. 35, 38, 51). This mechanism is the foundation for artistic expression. It is therefor both a philosophical and scientific synthesis. For Gleizes, Cubism was a means to arrive not only at a new mode of expression but above all a new way of thinking. This was, according to art historian , the foundation of both a new species of painting and an alternative relationship with the world; hence another principle of civilization.\n\nThe problem set out by Gleizes was to replace \"anecdote\" as a starting point for the work of art, by the sole means of using the elements of the painting itself: line, form and color.\n\nBeginning with a central rectangle, taken as an example of elementary form, Gleizes points out two mechanical ways of juxtaposing form to create a painting: (1) either by reproducing the initial form (employing various symmetries such as reflectional, rotational or translational), or by modifying (or not) its dimensions. (2) By displacement of the initial form; pivoting around an imaginary axis in one direction or another.\n\nThe choice of position (through translation and/or rotation), though based on the inspiration of the artist, is no longer attributed to the anecdotal. An objective and rigorous method, independent of the painter, replaces emotion or sensibility in the determination the placement of form, that is through \"translation\" and \"rotation\".\n\nSchematic illustrations:\n\nSpace and rhythm, according to Gleizes, are perceptible by the extent of movement (displacement) of planar surfaces. These elemental transformations modify the position and importance of the initial plane, whether they converge or diverge ('recede' or 'advance') from the eye, creating a series of new and separate spatial planes appreciable physiologically by the observer.\n\nAnother movement is added to the first movement of translation of the plane to one side: Rotation of the plane. Fig. I shows the resulting formation that follows from simultaneous movements of rotation and translation of the initial plane produced on the axis. Fig II and Fig. III represent the simultaneous movements of rotation and translation of the rectangle, inclined to the right and to the left. The axis point at which movement is realized is established by the observer. Fig. IV represents the simultaneous movements of rotation and translation of the rectangle plane, with the position of the eye of the observed displaced left of the axis. Displacement toward the right (though not represented) is straightforward enough to imagine.\n\nWith these figures Gleizes attempts to present, under the most simple conditions possible (simultaneous movements of rotation and translation of the plane), the creation of a spatial and rhythmic organism (Fig. VIII), with practically no initiative taken on the part of the artist who controls the evolutionary process. The planar surfaces of Fig. VIII are filled with hatching espousing the 'direction' of the planes. What emerges in the inert plane, according to Gleizes, through the movement followed by the eye of the observer, is \"a visible imprint of successive stages of which the initial rhythmic cadence coordinated a succession of differing states\". These successive stages permit the perception of space. The initial state, by consequence of the transformation, has become a spatial and rhythmic organism.\n\nFig. I and Fig. II obtain mechanically, Gleizes writes, with minimal personal initiative, a \"plastic spatial and rhythmic system\", by the conjugation of simultaneous movements of rotation and translation of the plane and from the movements of translation of the plane to one side. The result is a spatial and rhythmic organism more \"complex\" than shown in Fig. VIII; demonstrating through mechanical, purely plastic means, the realization of a material universe independent of intentional intervention by the artist. This is sufficient to demonstrate, according to Gleizes, the \"possibilities of the plane\" to serve spatially and rhythmically by its own power. [\"L'exposé hâtif de cette mécanique purement plastique aboutissant à la réalisation d'un univers matériel en dehors de l'intervention particulière intentionnelle, suffit à démontrer la \"possibilité du plan\" de signifier spatialement et rythmiquement par sa seule puissance\"].\n\nThroughout the war, to Armistice of 11 November 1918 and the series of exhibitions at Galerie de L'Effort Moderne that followed, the rift between art and life—and the overt distillation that came with it—had become the canon of Cubist orthodoxy; and it would persist despite its antagonists through the 1920s:\n\nOrder remained the keynote as post-war reconstruction commenced. It is not surprising, therefore, to find a continuity in the development of Cubist art as the transition was made from war to peace, an unbroken commitment to the Latin virtues along with an unbroken commitment to the aesthetically pure. The new Cubism that emerged, the Cubism of Picasso, Laurens, Gris, Metzinger and Lipchitz most obviously of all, has come to be known as \"crystal Cubism\". It was indeed the end-product of a progressive closing down of possibilities in the name of a \"call to order\". (Christopher Green, 1987, p. 37)\n\nMore so than the pre-war Cubist period, the Crystal Cubist period has been described by Green as the most important in the history of Modernism:\nIn terms of a Modernist will to aesthetic isolation and of the broad theme of the separation of culture and society, it is actually Cubism \"after\" 1914 that emerges as most important to the history of Modernism, and especially... Cubism between around 1916 and around 1924... Only after 1914 did Cubism come almost exclusively to be identified with a single-minded insistence on the isolation of the art-object in a special category with its own laws and its own experience to offer, a category considered above life. It is Cubism in this later period that has most to tell anyone concerned with the problems of Modernism and post-modernism now, because it was only then that issues emerged with real clarity in and around Cubism which are closely comparable with those that emerged in and around Anglo-American Modernism in the sixties and after. (Green, 1987, Introduction, p. 1)\n\nArt historian Peter Brooke has commented on Crystal Cubism, and more generally on the Salon Cubists: \n\nList of artists including those associated with Crystal Cubism to varying degrees between 1914 and the mid-1920s:\n\nThese works, or works by these artists created during the same period, according to Christopher Green, are associated with Crystal Cubism, or were precursors in varying degrees to the style.\n\n"}
{"id": "15996658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15996658", "title": "Daniel Innerarity", "text": "Daniel Innerarity\n\nDaniel Innerarity Grau (born 1959 in Bilbao) is a Spanish philosopher and essayist.\n\nDaniel Innerarity (1959) is a professor of political and social philosophy, Ikerbasque researcher at the University of the Basque Country and director of the Instituto de Gobernanza Democrática. Former fellow of the Fundación Alexander von Humboldt at the University of Munich, visiting professor at the University of Paris 1-Sorbonne, visiting professor at the Robert Schuman in the European University Institute of Florence and visiting fellow in the London School of Economics and Political Science. He is currently Directeur d'Études Associé de la Maison des Sciences de l'Homme (Paris). He has been professor in the Department of Philosophy of the University of Zaragoza (Spain).\n\nHe was awarded the III Miguel de Unamuno Essay Prize, the 2003 National Literature Prize in the Essay category, the and the 2012 Euskadi Essay Prize in 2008 . He has also received the Prize for Humanities, Culture, Arts and Social Sciences from the Basque Studies Society/Eusko Ikaskuntza in 2008 and the .\n\n1. \"Rethinking the Future of Politics\", Peter Lang, Bern 2010.\n\n2. \"The Future and Its Enemies\", Stanford University Press, 2012.\n\n3. (ed. with Javier Solana), \"Humanity at Risk. The Need for Global Governance\", Continuum/ Bloomsbury, New York, 2012.\n\n4. \"The Democracy of Knowledge\", Continuum/Bloomsbury, New York, 2013.\n\n5. \"Governance in a New Global Era\", Columbia University Press, 2016.\n\n6. (ed. with Serge Champeau, Carlos Closa and Miguel Maduro), \"The Future of Europe: Democracy, Legitimacy and Justice after the Euro Crisis\", Rowmann & Littlefield, London, 2014.\n\n2013-14: London School of Economics and Political Science\n\n2012-13: European University Institute of Florence\n\n2010-11: University of Paris 1-Sorbonne\n\n2006-07: Université de Bordeaux (Sciences Po)\n\n2003-04: Institut d'études politiques de Toulouse\n\n1992-93: \n\n1987-89: München Universität (as Alexander von Humboldt Fellow)\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8859062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8859062", "title": "Double hermeneutic", "text": "Double hermeneutic\n\nThe double hermeneutic is the theory, expounded by sociologist Anthony Giddens, that everyday \"lay\" concepts and those from the social sciences have a two-way relationship. A common example is the idea of social class, a social-scientific category that has entered into wide use in society. The double hermeneutic is held to be a distinguishing feature of the social sciences.\n\nAnthony Giddens (1982) argues that there is an important difference between the natural and social sciences. In the natural sciences, scientists try to understand and theorise about the way the natural world is structured. The understanding is one-way; that is, while we need to understand the actions of minerals or chemicals, chemicals and minerals don’t seek to develop an understanding of us. He refers to this as the ‘single hermeneutic’. (Hermeneutic means interpretation or understanding.) In contrast, the social sciences are engaged in the ‘double hermeneutic’. The various social sciences study people and society, although the way they do so is different. Some social sciences such as sociology don’t just study what people do, they also study how people understand their world, and how that understanding shapes their practice. Because people can think, make choices, and use new information to revise their understandings (and hence their practice), they can use the knowledge and insights of social science to change their practice.\n\nIn outlining his notion of the ‘double hermeneutic’, Giddens (1984: 20) explains that while philosophers and social scientists have often considered the way “in which lay concepts obstinately intrude into the technical discourse of social science,” ... “(f)ew have considered the matter the other way around.” He explains that “the concepts of the social sciences are not produced about an independently constituted subject-matter, which continues regardless of what these concepts are. The ‘findings’ of the social sciences very often enter constitutively into the world they describe.”\n\n"}
{"id": "3567861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3567861", "title": "Encratites", "text": "Encratites\n\nThe Encratites (\"self-controlled\") were an ascetic 2nd century sect of Christians who forbade marriage and counselled abstinence from meat. Eusebius says that Tatian was the author of this heresy. It has been supposed that it was these Gnostic encratites who were chastised in the epistle of 1 Timothy (4:1-4).\n\nThe first mention of a Christian sect of this name occurs in Irenæus. They are mentioned more than once by Clement of Alexandria, who says that they are named from “Temperance”. Hippolytus of Rome refers to them as \"acknowledging what concerns God and Christ in like manner with the Church; in respect, however, of their mode of life, passing their days inflated with pride\"; \"abstaining from animal food, being water-drinkers and forbidding to marry\"; \"estimated Cynics rather than Christians\". On the strength of this passage it is supposed that some Encratites were perfectly orthodox in doctrine, and erred only in practice. Origen says they did not acknowledge St. Paul’s Epistles. \n\nSomewhat later this sect received new life and strength by the accession of a certain Severus, after whom Encratites were often called Severians. These Severian Encratites accepted the Law, the Prophets, and the Gospels, but rejected the Book of the Acts and cursed St. Paul and his Epistles. But the account given by Epiphanius of the Severians rather betrays Syrian Gnosticism than Judaistic tendencies. In their hatred of marriage they declared woman the work of Satan or the devil, as was sexual intercourse and marriage and in their hatred of intoxicants they called wine drops of venom from the great Serpent, etc. Epiphanius states that in his day Encratites were very numerous throughout Asia Minor, in Psidia, in the Adustan district of Phrygia, in Isauria, Pamphylia, Cilicia, and Galatia. In the Roman Province and in Antioch of Syria they were found scattered here and there. They split up into a number of smaller sects of whom the Apotactics were remarkable for their condemnation of private property, the Hydroparastatæ or Aquarii for their use of water instead of wine in the Eucharist. \n\nIn the Edict of 382, Theodosius pronounced the sentence of death on all those who took the name of Encratites, Saccophori, or Hydroparastatæ, and commanded Florus, the Magister Officiarum, to make strict search for these heretics, who were Manichæans in disguise.\n\n"}
{"id": "41397181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41397181", "title": "Environmental hermeneutics", "text": "Environmental hermeneutics\n\nEnvironmental hermeneutics is a term for a wide range of scholarship that applies the techniques and resources of the philosophical field of hermeneutics to environmental issues. That is to say it addresses issues of interpretation as they relate to nature and environmental issues broadly conceived to include wilderness, ecosystems, landscapes, ecology, the built environment (architecture), life, embodiment, and more. Work in environmental philosophy, ecocriticism, environmental theology, ecotheology, and similar disciplines may overlap the field of environmental hermeneutics.\n\nIn the public sphere, much of the focus on “the environment” is concerned with discovering scientific facts and then reporting how policy can act on these facts. On its face, philosophical hermeneutics might appear to be an unrelated enterprise. But... even the facts of the sciences are given meaning by how humans interpret them. Of course this does not mean that there are no facts, or that all facts must come from scientific discourse. Rather... [it calls] for mediation—the \"mediation that grounds the interpretive task of connecting fact and meaning\" through a number of different structures and forms. \n\n"}
{"id": "13783377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13783377", "title": "Glossary of Stoicism terms", "text": "Glossary of Stoicism terms\n\nThis is a glossary of terms which are commonly found in Stoic philosophy.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13366310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13366310", "title": "Huangdi Sijing", "text": "Huangdi Sijing\n\nThe Huangdi Sijing (; lit. \"The Yellow Emperor's Four Classics\") are long-lost Chinese manuscripts that were discovered among the Mawangdui Silk Texts in 1973. Also known as the Huang-Lao boshu (; lit. \"Huang-Lao Silk Texts\"), they are thought by modern scholars to reflect a lost branch of early syncretist Daoism, referred to as the \"Huang–Lao school of thought\" named after the legendary Huangdi (黃帝 the \"Yellow Emperor\") and Laozi (老子 \"Master Lao\"). One finds in it \"technical jargon\" derived of Taoism, Legalism, Confucianism and Mohism.\n\nMawangdui is an archeological site, comprising three Han-era tombs, found near Changsha in modern Hunan Province (ancient state of Chu). In December 1973, archeologists excavating \"Tomb Number 3\" (dated at 168 BCE) discovered an edifying trove of silk paintings and silk scrolls with manuscripts, charts, and maps. These polymathic texts discussed philosophy, politics, medicine, Daoist yoga, Yin and Yang, and astronomy. Most were unknown in the received literature, ranging from a formulary that modern editors entitled \"Recipes for Fifty-Two Illnesses\" and two texts on cauterization – the \"Zubi Shiyi Mai Jiujing\" and \"Yin Yang Shiyi Mai Jiujing\", both precursors of the \"Huangdi Neijing\" – to the unknown \"Book of Silk\", which lists three centuries of comet sightings.\n\nThe Mawangdui manuscripts included two silk copies of the \"Daodejing\", eponymously titled \"Laozi\". Both add other texts and both reverse the received chapter arrangement, giving the \"Dejing\" chapters before the \"Daojing\". The so-called \"B Version\" included four previously unknown works, each appended with a title and number of characters ():\nDue to textual lacunae, that is gaps in the written text due to the fragmentary preservation of the original ancient silk manuscripts, the original character counts are also uncertain.\n\nThe two longest texts are subdivided into sections. \"The Constancy of Laws\" has nine: 1. \"Dao fa\" (道法 \"The Dao and the Law\"), 2. \"Guo ci\" (國次 \"The Priorities of the State\"), 3. \"Jun zheng\" (君正 \"The Ruler's Government\")... \"The Sixteen Classics\", which some scholars read as \"Shi da jing\" (十大經 \"The Ten Great Classics\"), has fifteen [sic]: 1. \"Li ming\" (立命 \"Establishing the Mandate\"), 2. \"Guan\" (觀 \"Observation\"), 3. \"Wu zheng\" (五正 \"The Five Norms\")...\n\nIn the decades since 1973, scholars have published many Mawangdui manuscript studies (see Carrozza 2002). In 1974, the Chinese journal \"Wenwu\" (文物 \"Cultural objects/relics\") presented a preliminary transcription into modern characters. Tang Lan's influential article (1975) gave photocopies with transcriptions, analyzed the textual origins and contents, and cited paralleling passages from Chinese classic texts. Tang was first to identify these texts as the \"Huangdi sijing\", a no-longer extant text attributed to the Yellow Emperor, which the Hanshu's \"Yiwenzhi\" (藝文志) bibliographical section lists as a Daoist text in four \"pian\" (篇 \"sections\"). The \"Huangdi sijing\" was lost and is only known by name, and thus the Daoist Canon excluded it. While most scholars agree with Tang's evidence, some disagree and call the texts the \"Huang-Lao boshu\" or the \"Huangdi shu\" (黃帝書 \"The Yellow Emperor's books\").\n\nThe first complete English translation of the \"Huangdi sijing\" was produced by Leo S. Chang (appended in Yu 1993:211-326). Subsequent translations include scholarly versions by Yates (1997) and by Chang and Feng (1998), as well as some selected versions. Ryden (1997) provides an informative examination of \"The Yellow Emperor's Four Canons\".\n\nThe \"Huangdi sijing\" reveals some complex connections within Chinese philosophy. Take, for example, the first lines in \"The Constancy of Laws\":\nThe Way generates standards. Standards serve as marking cords to demarcate success and failure and are what clarify the crooked and the straight. Therefore, those who hold fast to the Way generate standards and do not to dare to violate them; having established standards, they do not dare to discard them. [Missing graph] Only after you are able to serve as your own marking cord, will you look at and know all-under-Heaven and not be deluded. (\"Dao fa\", 1.1, tr. De Bary and Lufrano 2001:243) \nThis passage echoes concepts from several rival philosophies, Daoism, Legalism, Mohism, Confucianism, and School of Names. De Bary and Lufrano (2001:242) describe \"Huangdi sijing\" philosophy as \"a syncretism that is grounded in a cosmology of the Way and an ethos of self-cultivation\".\n\n\"Prior to the Mawangdui discovery,\" says Peerenboom (1993:1), \"sinologists were more confused than clear about the school of thought known as Huang-Lao.\" Sima Qian's \"Records of the Grand Historian\" says many early Han thinkers and politicians favored Huang-Lao doctrines during the reigns (202-157 BCE) of Emperor Wen, Emperor Jing, and Empress Dou. Sima cites Han Fei, Shen Buhai, and Shen Dao as representative Huang-Lao philosophers, advocates that sagely rulers should use \"wu wei\" to organize their government and society. However, after Emperor Wu of Han (r. 141-87 BCE) declared Confucianism the official state philosophy, Huang-Lao followers dwindled and their texts largely vanished.\n\nThe \"Huangdi sijing\" texts provide newfound answers to questions about how Chinese philosophy originated. Carrozza (2002:49) explains that, \"For a long time, the focal point in the study of early Chinese thought has been the interpretation of a rather limited set of texts, each attributed to a 'Master' and to one of the so-called 'Hundred Schools'.\" For instance, tradition says Mozi founded Mohism and his students compiled the \"Mozi\" text. Conversely, Mawangdui textual syncretism reveals \"the majority of the ancient texts\" are not written by individual authors, \"but rather collections of works of different origins.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "573474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=573474", "title": "Humphry Ditton", "text": "Humphry Ditton\n\nHumphry Ditton (29 May 1675 – 15 October 1715) was an English mathematician.\n\nDitton was born at Salisbury. He studied theology, and was for some years a dissenting minister at Tonbridge, but on the death of his father he devoted himself to the congenial study of mathematics. Through the influence of Isaac Newton he was elected mathematical master in Christ's Hospital.\n\nHe was author of the following memoirs and treatises:\n\n\nIn 1709 he published the \"Synopsis Algebraica of John Alexander\", with additions and corrections. In his \"Treatise on Perspective\" (1712) he explained is mathematical principles; and anticipated the method afterwards elaborated by Brook Taylor.\n\nIn 1714 Ditton published his \"Discourse on the Resurrection of Jesus Christ\", and \"The New Law of Fluids, or a Discourse concerning the Ascent of Liquids in exact Geometrical Figures, between two nearly contiguous Surfaces\". To this was annexed a tract (\"Matter not a Cogitative Substance\") to demonstrate the impossibility of thinking or perception being the result of any combination of the parts of matter and motion. There was also added an advertisement, from him and William Whiston, concerning a method for discovering the longitude, which it seems they had published about half a year earlier. Although the method had been approved by Newton before being presented to the Board of Longitude, and successfully practised in finding the longitude between Paris and Vienna, the board determined against it. Jonathan Swift wrote mockingly about this plan. \n\nDitton died in the following year, and was buried in Christ Church Greyfriars in central London.\n"}
{"id": "25680702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25680702", "title": "Inequality of bargaining power", "text": "Inequality of bargaining power\n\nIn law, economics and the social sciences, inequality of bargaining power is where one party to a \"bargain\", contract or agreement, has more and better alternatives than the other party. This results in one party having greater \"power\" than the other to choose not to take the deal and makes it more likely that this party will gain more favourable terms. Inequality of bargaining power is where some believe that freedom of contract ceases to be real freedom, or that some have more freedom than others, and that it represents a place at which markets fail.\n\nWhere bargaining power is persistently unequal, the concept of inequality of bargaining power serves as a justification for the implication of mandatory terms into contracts by law, or the non-enforcement of a contract by the courts.\n\nThe concept of inequality of bargaining power was long recognised, particularly with regard to workers. In the \"Wealth of Nations\" Adam Smith wrote,\n\nBeatrice Webb and Sidney Webb in their treatise \"Industrial Democracy\" significantly expanded on the critique of 19th century labour conditions and advocated a comprehensive system of labour law contained a chapter called, \"The Higgling of the Market\". They argued that the labour market was dominated by employers, and therefore had the same effect as monopsony. Workers generally are more under pressure to sell their labour than an employer is under to buy it. An employer can hold out longer, because typically he will have greater financial reserves. This means that much labour is supplied merely out of necessity, than free choice (shifting the supply curve to the right) and it is a false kind of competitive environment. The Webbs also pointed out that discrimination can decrease job opportunities for women or minorities, and that the legal institutions underpinning the market were skewed in favour of employers. Most importantly, they believed that a large pool of unemployed people was a constant downward drag on the ability of workers to bargain for better conditions.\n\nThe Webbs felt that these factors all added up to systemic inequality of bargaining power between workers and employers. The first ever use of the phrase \"inequality of bargaining power\", however, appears to have been by the British philosopher, John Beattie Crozier in \"The Wheel of Wealth\".\n\n\n\"The real measure of market power is not whether a supplier presents his terms on a take-it-or-leave basis but whether the consumer, if he decides to ‘leave it’ has available to him a workably competitive range of alternative sources of supply. Whether this is or is not so simply cannot be derived intuitively from the fact that a particular supplier is offering non-negotiable standard-form terms. It is a matter for independent inquiry. If the market is workably competitive, any supplier offering uncompetitive standard form terms will have to reformulate his total package of price and non-price terms to prevent consumers (at least consumers at the margin, which are the decisive consideration in such a market) from switching their business to other competitors...\n\nNon-economists often overlook the importance of marginal analysis in this context. For example, if only 10 per cent of the buyers of insurance policies or dry-cleaning services studied all terms scrupulously before contracting an were influence in their choice of policy by their evaluation of the so-called fine print clauses, and if no supplier of insurance or dry-cleaning services was able to ‘term discriminate’ between these consumers and other consumers in the market, there would be strong competitive pressures on each supplier to adjust the terms of his contracts so as to avoid losing this potential business...\n\nWhen one asks why, many consumers probably rely in part on the constraints imposed by other consumers at the margin (ie, they let the market shop for them).\"\n\"The point is obvious but worth making because it affects the conditions under which relief should be given: whereas advice as to value will normally save the contract with the ‘poor and ignorant person’, the master of the ship drifting onto the rocks would still have been open to exploitation even if he had had the entire House of Lords on board to advise him.\"\n\n\n\"In so far as the reduction of costs of production and distribution thus achieved is reflected in reduced prices, society as a whole ultimately benefits from the use of standard contracts… The use of contracts has, however, another aspect which has become increasingly important. Standard contracts are typically used by enterprises with strong bargaining power. The weaker party, in need of the goods or services, is frequently not in a position to shop around for better terms, either because the author of the standard contract has a monopoly (natural or artificial) or because all competitors use the same clauses. His contractual intention is but a subjection more or less voluntary to terms dictated by the stronger party, terms whose consequences are often understood only in a vague way, if at all.\"\n\n\n\"The legislature has also recognized the fact, which the experience of legislators in many states has corroborated, that the proprietors of these establishments and their operatives do not stand upon an equality, and that their interests are, to a certain extent, conflicting. The former naturally desire to obtain as much labor as possible from their employees, while the latter are often induced by the fear of discharge to conform to regulations which their judgment, fairly exercised, would pronounce to be detrimental to their health or strength. In other words, the proprietors lay down the rules, and the laborers are practically constrained to obey them. In such cases self-interest is often an unsafe guide, and the legislature may properly interpose its authority.\"\n\n\"The inequality of bargaining power between employees who do not possess full freedom of association or actual liberty of contract and employers who are organized in the corporate or other forms of ownership association substantially burdens and affects the flow of commerce, and tends to aggravate recurrent business depressions, by depressing wage rates and the purchasing power of wage earners in industry and by preventing the stabilization of competitive wage rates and working conditions within and between industries.\"\n\n\"It is easy now to see that Parliament in 1906 might have felt that the only way of giving labour an equality of bargaining power with capital was to give it special immunities which the common law did not permit. Even now, when the scales have been redressed, it is easy to see that Parliament might think that a strike, whether reprehensible or not, ought not to be made a ground for litigation and that industrial peace should be sought by other means.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50239300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50239300", "title": "Inscape and instress", "text": "Inscape and instress\n\nInscape and instress are complementary concepts about individuality and uniqueness derived by Gerard Manley Hopkins from the ideas of the medieval philosopher Duns Scotus.\n[Hopkins] felt that everything in the universe was characterized by what he called \"inscape\", the distinctive design that constitutes individual identity. This identity is not static but dynamic. Each being in the universe 'selves,' that is, enacts its identity. And the human being, the most highly selved, the most individually distinctive being in the universe, recognizes the inscape of other beings in an act that Hopkins calls \"instress\", the apprehension of an object in an intense thrust of energy toward it that enables one to realize specific distinctiveness. Ultimately, the instress of inscape leads one to Christ, for the individual identity of any object is the stamp of divine creation on it.\nThis is related to a logocentric theology and the Imago Dei. A logocentric theology of creation is based on correlation of the Genesis account and John 1. Since all creation is by the Word (divine fiat) human identity in God's image is grounded in God's speech and no two creation words are ever spoken alike. This idea is reflected by J. R. R. Tolkien who compares the Creator to a perfect prism and creation to the refraction of perfect light. Tolkien writes,\n\nThe idea is strongly embraced by the Trappist monk and author Thomas Merton who admired both Scotus and Hopkins. In \"New Seeds of Contemplation\" Merton equates the unique \"thingness\" of a thing, its inscape, to sanctity. Merton writes,\n\n\"No two created beings are exactly alike. And their individuality is no imperfection. On the contrary, the perfection of each created thing is not merely its conformity to an abstract type but in its own individual identity with itself.\"\n\nThe result is that holiness itself is grounded in God's creation, his call, and not in a Platonic ideal. To the extent that any \"thing\" (including humans) honors God's unique idea of them they are holy. Holiness thus connects to \"vocation\" (from the Latin vocare for \"voice\") in two ways. First, God creates through the word; and second, when being responds rightly to God's speech by expressing his unique word the result is Holiness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15969980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15969980", "title": "Jerzy Giedymin", "text": "Jerzy Giedymin\n\nJerzy Giedymin (September 18, 1925 – June 24, 1993) was a philosopher and historian of mathematics and science.\n\nGiedymin, of Polish origin, was born in 1925.\n\nHe studied at the University of Poznań under Kazimierz Ajdukiewicz. In 1953 Jerzy Giedymin succeeded Adam Wiegner at the Chair of Logic at the Faculty of Philosophy.\n\nThe so-called Poznań School was a Marxist current of philosophy marked by an idealisational theory of science which emphasised the scientific features of Marxism in close confrontation with contemporary logic and epistemology.\n\nIn 1968 Giedymin moved to England and attended seminars by Karl Popper at the London School of Economics.\n\nIn 1971 he came to Sussex to become Professor at the School of Mathematical and Physical Sciences of the University of Sussex.\n\nGiedymin died during a trip to Poland on 24 June 1993.\n\nGiedymin was convinced that Henri Poincaré's conventionalist philosophy was fundamentally misunderstood and thus underestimated. Giedymin argues that Poincaré was at the origin of much of the 20th century's innovations in relativity theory and quantum physics. \n\nGiedymin's standpoint was much influenced by his exposure to Kazimierz Ajdukiewicz's perception of the history of ideas which in defiance of traditional empiricism reviews the philosophy of science of the early 20th century in the light of pragmatic conventionalism.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "314917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314917", "title": "Juan Luis Vives", "text": "Juan Luis Vives\n\nJuan Luis Vives March (; ; ; 6 March 6 May 1540) was a Spanish (Valencian) scholar and Renaissance humanist who spent most of his adult life in the Southern Netherlands. His beliefs on the soul, insight into early medical practice, and perspective on emotions, memory and learning earned him the title of the \"father\" of modern psychology. Vives was the first to shed light on some key ideas that established how we perceive psychology today.\n\nVives was born in Valencia to a family which had converted from Judaism to Christianity. As a child, he saw his father, grandmother and great-grandfather, as well as members of their wider family, executed as Judaizers at the behest of the Spanish Inquisition; his mother was acquitted but died of the plague when he was 15 years old. Shortly thereafter, he left Spain never to return.\n\nWhile still in Spain, he attended the Valencia Academy, where he was taught by Jerome Amiguetus and Daniel Siso. The school was dominated by scholasticism, with the dialectic and disputation playing a central role in the delivery of education.\n\nEven the youngest scholars are accustomed never to keep silence; they are always asserting vigorously whatever comes uppermost to their minds, lest they should seem to be giving up the dispute. Nor does one disputation, or even two a day prove sufficient, as for instance at dinner. They wrangle at breakfast; they wrangle after breakfast; they wrangle before supper and they wrangle after supper. At home they dispute, out of doors they dispute. They wrangle over their food, in the bath, in the sweating room, in the church, in the town, in the country, in public, in private. At all times they are wrangling.\n\nVives studied at the University of Paris from 1509 to 1512, and in 1519 was appointed professor of humanities at the University of Leuven. At the insistence of his friend Erasmus, he prepared an elaborate commentary on Augustine's \"De Civitate Dei\", which was published in 1522 with a dedication to Henry VIII of England. Soon afterwards, he was invited to England, and acted as tutor to the Princess Mary, for whose use he wrote \"De ratione studii puerilis epistolae duae\" (1523) and, ostensibly, \"De Institutione Feminae Christianae\", on the education of girls (a book he dedicated to the English queen Catherine of Aragon).\n\nWhile in England, he resided at Corpus Christi College, Oxford, where Erasmus had strong ties. Vives was made doctor of laws and lectured on philosophy. Having declared himself against the annulment of the marriage of Henry VIII and Catherine of Aragon, he lost royal favour and was confined to his house for six weeks. On his release, he withdrew to Bruges, where he devoted the rest of his life to the composition of numerous works, chiefly directed against the scholastic philosophy and the preponderant unquestioning authority of Aristotle. The most important of his treatises is the \"De Causis Corruptarum Artium\", which has been ranked with Bacon's \"Novum Organon\".\n\nHis most important pedagogic work are \"Introductio ad sapientiam\" (1524); \"De disciplinis\", which stressed the urgent importance of more rational programs of education and studying; \"De prima philosophia\"; and the \"Exercitatio linguae latinae\", which is a Latin textbook consisting of a series of brilliant dialogues. His philosophical works include \"De anima et vita\" (1538), \"De veritate fidei Christianae\"; and \"De Subventione Pauperum Sive de Humanis Necessitatibus\" (On Assistance To The Poor) (1526), the first tract of its kind in the Western world to treat the problem of urban poverty and propose concrete suggestions for a policy of social legislation. Vives detected through philological analysis that the supposed author of the so-called Letter of Aristeas, purporting to describe the Biblical translation of the Septuagint, could not have been a Greek but must have been a Jew who lived after the events he described had transpired.\n\nHe died in Bruges in 1540, at the age of 47, and was buried in the St. Donatian's Cathedral.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, poor relief was usually the responsibility of the Church and individuals through almsgiving. As society became more advanced, these efforts became inadequate. In 1525, the Dutch city of Bruges requested Vives to suggest means to address the issue of relief for the poor. He set out his views in his essay \"De Subventione Pauperum Sive de Humanis Necessitatibus\" (On Assistance To The Poor). Vives argued that the state had a responsibility to provide some level of financial relief for the poor, as well as craft training for the unskilled poor. The city of Bruges did not implement Vives's suggestions until 1557, but his proposals influenced social relief legislation enacted in England and the German Empire during the 1530s.\n\nVives imagined and described a comprehensive theory of education. He may have directly influenced the essays of Michel Eyquem de Montaigne. He was admired by Thomas More and Erasmus, who wrote that Vives \"will overshadow the name of Erasmus.\"\n\nVives is considered the first scholar to analyze the psyche directly. He did extensive interviews with people, and noted the relation between their exhibition of affect and the particular words they used and the issues they were discussing. While it is unknown if Freud was familiar with Vives's work, historian of psychiatry Gregory Zilboorg considered Vives a godfather of psychoanalysis. (\"A History of Medical Psychology\", 1941) and the father of modern psychology by Foster Watson (1915.)\nVives taught monarchs. His idea of a diverse and concrete children's education long preceded Jean Jacques Rousseau, and may have indirectly influenced Rousseau through Montaigne.\n\nHowever influential he may have been in the 16th century, Vives now attracts minimal interest beyond specialized academic fields. The values of Vives inspired two Belgian Schools for higher education (KATHO and Katholieke Hogeschool Brugge-Oostende) to choose the name 'Vives' as the name for their cooperation/merger starting from September 2013. Also, the regional link of Vives with the province of West Flanders (Bruges is the capital of this province) played a role.\n\nSome see Vives altering classical rhetoric to express his own sort of pro-virginity half-feminism - which remains of interest to historians of gender. Among 16th century Spain's numerous \"treatises for and against women,\" some see Vives \"steer[ing] a middle path\" (p. xxiv-xxv), neither misogynist nor sanctifying.\n\nOthers see him as prescribing quite patriarchal and misogynistic views.\n\nHe stated that women should not be educators:\n\n\"For Adam was created first, then Eve, and Adam was not seduced but the woman was seduced and led astray. Therefore, since woman is a weak creature and of uncertain judgment and is easily deceived (as Eve, the first parent of mankind, demonstrated, whom the devil deluded with such a slight pretext), she should not teach, lest when she has convinced herself of some false opinion, she transmit it to her listeners in her role as a teacher and easily drag others into her error, since pupils willingly follow their teacher.\"\n\nHis \"De institutione feminae christianae\", published in 1523, was commissioned by Catherine of Aragon, Catholic Queen consort of Henry VIII of England, for her daughter, Mary to instruct her on the proper roles for her sex. It forbids the very role Queen regnant Elizabeth I would later fulfill with the support of England and its navy in defeating the Armada of Catholic Spain, originating from the country of the Catholic Monarchs, Catherine of Aragon's parents and leaders of the Spanish Inquisition that executed Vives' relatives:\n\n\"An unmarried young woman should rarely appear in public . . . who can have respect for a man who he sees is ruled by a woman?\"\"\n\nThe book describes a longer list of attributes for a married woman. She must be loyal, dedicated, and obedient to her spouse; she must dress appropriately, covering her face in public; she must not allow any man into her house without her husband's permission. While a wife's obedience and dedication to her spouse determined her\nhonor, a husband's honor stemmed from his ability to control his wife and ensure she remained virtuous.\n\nVives's text for husbands, \"De los deberes del marido\", fills less than half the pages of his advice book for women and focuses substantially on selecting and governing a good wife rather than detailing how a husband should behave in his own right.\n\nVives expressed an interest in the soul. He believed that understanding how the soul functions is more valuable than understanding the soul itself. \"He was not concerned with what the soul is, but rather what the soul was like\". Norena explains that Vives thought that the soul had certain characteristics. He believed that the best part of the soul is its ability to \"…understand, remember, reason, and judge.\" Vives touched on the mind in terms of his explanations of the soul—he claims that one cannot simply define what the soul is, but by piecing together parts of it, a better concept of how the soul works can be achieved. He compared the soul to art with an analogy by stating: \"How we perceive a painted picture is more telling than declaring what the picture is itself\". Vives rejected the deterministic view of human behavior, and said instead that our soul can \"modify our behavior in ethically and socially.\" He also suggested that the way we feel day to day affects whether our soul is attaining good or evil.\n\nVives is acknowledged for integrating psychology and medicine. \"His ideas were new and they paved the way for other contributions that have greatly impacted our society today in terms of how we view the impact of medicine on humans\". He expressed the importance of animal testing before doing so on to people -–\"Although Vives did not perform actual medical procedures, his suggestions were among the first of his time.\" Vives had hopes that his ideas would influence the public. \"With time, some may argue that a sort of social reform was created largely due to Vives' ideas on medicine\". Clements described Vives' contributions as being \"original,\" yet many would classify him as being very underrated in terms of his accomplishments and ideas. Vives also made important early observations on the health of the human body-—he urged that \"Personal habits of cleanliness and temperance greatly impacted health\". He claimed that the cleanliness of the body impacts the welfare of the body and the mind. He touched on how to medicate the mentally unstable by saying that mocking, exciting, and irritating those individuals who are mentally ill does not contribute to their treatment. Vives said that \"Using the mentally ill as a form of entertainment is one of the most inhumane practices he had ever encountered\". His belief was that some individuals who are mentally ill should be provided medication, but others just need friendly treatment.\n\nAnother psychological contribution from Vives involves his thoughts on emotion. His ideas were largely influenced by the ideologies that came from Galen and Hippocrates in terms of how emotion is related to bile in the body. He agreed with the two with the belief that \"different colored biles that humans have reflected different types of emotions\". Further, Vives believed that \"Certain emotions color bile inside of human bodies and colored bodies likewise influences emotions\". According to Norena, Vives followed Galen's recommendations of eating certain types of food for certain types of temperaments. Vives also suggested that almost all of our emotions, even those considered to be negative, are actually beneficial in a lot of ways. He expressed how there is potential to learn and grow from negative emotions as well as positive emotions. His emphasis on animism, or animal spirits, influenced Decartes according to Clements. Vives suggested in his work that the degree in which how strongly a person believes in his or her morals have a great impact on the way they feel about themselves-—\"mental strength can influence physical strength\". Emotions, according to Vives, can be divided up into \"Hot, cold, moist, dry, and varying combinations of the four\". Personality disturbances with emotions could be fixed when applying the correct temperature on to the body.\n\nVives placed emphasis on memory. He defined memory as \"…relating to the past, while perception relates to the present\". \"Memory is something that is retained by either externally or internally perceiving it\". He especially emphasized how humans imagine something internally and connect it with an event in order to create a memory. This, according to Vives, makes information retrieval of memory easier. He touched on memories in which we are unaware of, otherwise known as the unconscious. He said information is the \"Most accessible from memory when a certain amount of attention is given.\" According to Murray, Vives showed understanding of the modern-day conception of how humans process retrieval. Vives observed that the more a memory is connected to a strong emotional experience, the easier it can be remembered. In terms of retaining memory, imagination was thought to play a key role, especially in children. He also believed in a theory that pointed towards the fact that memory can be improved with practice. He advised that \"One should memorize something every day, even a useless quotation.\" Vives even touched on childhood memory-—he believed that children learn quickly because their mind is less cluttered with worries that adult minds have. Vives also believed that recall of memory is brought about by a concept in which the soul processes the memory. Vives himself had a recall experience as a child where he ate cherries when he had a fever. When he had cherries again as an adult, he \"felt as though he was sick just as he was when he was a child.\" He found this remarkable and determined that memory can exist unconsciously for a very long time. He also believed that \"memory declines every day that the mind is not exercised.\"\n\nVives used the word \"intelligence\" in a way that can be translated to the word \"supervisor\" as we know its meaning today: intelligence, according to Vives, involves functions directing attention from different kinds of stimulus. Intelligence is very much a cognitive structure according to Vives. When we learn, the memory of the experience is locked in an order of the actual intelligence. Vives' perception on intelligence is that it is only important when it is put to use. Having an intelligent gift is only meaningful when the person is actively exercising it. The exercising of intelligence is important in retaining memory, which creates a better learning experience in general. Vives was among the first to suggest that the health of a student, the personality of the teacher, the classroom environment and the types of authors that the students are required to read from are all very important in how the student learns. \"Vives placed special stress upon the proper environment of the school as the first ecological ingredient of the child's sense experience.\" He compared learning and gaining knowledge to how humans digest food. Feeding the mind with knowledge is the same as feeding the body with food; it is essential to the human being.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55589004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55589004", "title": "Katerina Kolozova", "text": "Katerina Kolozova\n\nKaterina Kolozova (; ; born October 20, 1969) is a Macedonian academic, author and philosopher.\n\nShe is a director of and professor of gender studies and philosophy at the Institute of Social Sciences and Humanities, Skopje and a professor of the University American College Skopje, both in Skopje, Republic of Macedonia. She has been associated with speculative realism and has written about the non-philosophy of François Laruelle and the works of Karl Marx. She has been a member of the \"Organisation Non-Philosophique Internationale\" (International Organization of Non-Philosophy), with headquarters in Paris, France, since it was founded. She is a board member of The New Centre for Research & Practice of Grand Rapids, Michigan.\n\n\nBooks\n\nAs editor\n\nArticles\n"}
{"id": "35818571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35818571", "title": "Keśin", "text": "Keśin\n\nThe Keśin were long-haired ascetic wanderers with mystical powers described in the Keśin Hymn (RV 10, 136) of the \"Rigveda\" (an ancient Indian sacred collection of Vedic Sanskrit hymns). The Keśin (\"long-haired one\") are described as homeless, traveling with the wind, clad only in dust or yellow tatters, and being equally at home in the physical and the spiritual worlds. They are on friendly terms with the natural elements, the gods, enlightened beings, wild beasts, and all people. The Keśin Hymn also relates that the Keśin drink from the same magic cup as Rudra, which is poisonous to mortals.\n\nThe Kesin hymn of the Rigveda is the earliest evidence of yogis and their spiritual tradition, states Karel Werner. The Hindu scripture Rigveda uses words of admiration for Kesins.\n\nThe Keśin were lone ascetics, living a life of renunciation and wandering mendicants.\n\nYāska (c. 500 BCE) offered several etymological meanings to Keśin, including the sun or the sun God \"Surya\". Sāyana (c. 14th century ACE) supported that view, followed by some early European Sanskrit scholars, including H. H. Wilson and M. Bloomfield. Hermann Oldenberg took the view that the Keśin Hymn described the \"orgiastic practices of the old Vedic times\" and the \"drunken rapture\" of the Keśin.\n\nRalph T. H. Griffith and Heinrich Roth rejected both the Surya and intoxicant-drinking views. Griffith supported Roth's view of the Keśin Hymn:\nThe hymn shows the conception that by a life of sanctity the Muni can attain to the fellowship of the deities of the air, the Vayu, the Rudras, the Apsarases, and the Gandharvas; and, furnished like them with wonderful powers, can travel along with them on their course.\n\nWerner contrasts Kesin with Rishi, both loners, but the former being the silent wandering types and the latter being the satya (truth-teaching) settled-in-a-hut types.\n\nThe description of Keśin is found in hymn 10.136 of the Rigveda.\n\n"}
{"id": "2855421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2855421", "title": "Kundakunda", "text": "Kundakunda\n\nAcharya Kundakunda was a Digambara Jain monk and philosopher, who is still revered. He authored many Jain texts such as: \"Samayasara, Niyamasara, Pancastikayasara, Pravachanasara, Atthapahuda\" and \"Barasanuvekkha\". He occupies the highest place in the tradition of the Digambara Jain acharyas, a position comparable to Christ in Christianity and Muhammad in Islam. All Digambara Jains say his name before starting to read the scripture. Modern scholarship has found it difficult to locate him chronologically, with a possible low date in the 2nd-3rd centuries CE and a late date in 8th century.\n\nHis proper name was \"Padmanandin\", he is popularly referred to as Kundakunda possibly because the modern village of Kondakunde in Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh might represent his native home. A.N. Upadhye has shown that possibly apart from the name \"Elacarya\", all the other names ascribed to Kundakunda (\"Vakragriva\", \"Grdhrapiccha\" or \"Mahamati\") go against the tradition of the early epigraphic records.\n\n\"Acharya Kundakunda\" belonged to the Mula Sangh order of Digambara sect. He is dated to have flourished around second century CE.\n\nFor Digambaras, his name has auspicious significance and occupies third place after Lord Mahavira and Gautama Ganadhara in the sacred litany. Kundakunda's singular contribution consists in his compiling a number of liturgical tracts and creating several masterly doctrinal works of his own, which provided a parallel canon for the Digambara tradition. This earned him the everlasting gratitude of the Digambaras, who have for centuries invoked his name together with that of Mahavira and his Ganadhara, Gautama, placing him ahead even of Bhadrabahu, Visakha, and some forty other elders (sthaviras) in the lineage, thus making him virtually the founder of the Digambara sect.\n\nDr. A.N. Upadhye in his critical edition of the Pravachansara has examined at great length the problems concerning the date and author-ship of these and other works attributed to Kundakunda and has placed him in the middle of the 2nd century AD. This would make him the first significant and independent thinker of the post-canonical period whose views are accepted as representing the Jain thought.\n\nIn texts such as \"Pravacanasāra\"\n(‘The Essence of the Doctrine’) and \"Samayasāra\" (‘The Essence of the Soul’), Kundakunda distinguishes between two perspectives of truth:\n\n\nFor Kundakunda, the mundane realm of truth is also the relative perspective of normal folk, where the workings of karma operate and where things emerge, last for a certain duration and perish. The mundane aspect is associated with the changing qualities of the soul mainly the influx of karmic particles. The ultimate perspective meanwhile, is that of the pure soul or atman, the jiva, which is \"blissful, energetic, perceptive, and omniscient\". Delusion and bondage is caused by the confusion of the workings of karma with the true nature of the soul, which is always pure, in other words, it is caused by taking the view of \"vyavahāranaya\", not the higher \"niścayanaya\" which is the absolute perspective of a Jina - Kevala Jnana. His view has become the mainstream view in Digambara Jainism.\n\nThe works attributed to Kundakunda, all of them in Prakrit, can be divided in three groups.\n\nThe first group comprises four original works described as \"The Essence\" (sara)— namely, the \"Niyamasara\" (The Essence of the Restraint, in 187 verses), the \"Pancastikayasara\" (The Essence of the Five Existents, in 153 verses), the \"Samayasara\" (The Essence of the Self, in 439 verses), and the \"Pravachanasara\" (The Essence of the Teaching, in 275 verses).\n\nThe second group is a collection of ten bhaktis (devotional prayers), short compositions in praise of the acharya (Acharyabhakti), the scriptures (Srutabhakti), the mendicant conduct (Charitrabhakti), and so forth. They form the standard liturgical texts used by the Digambara in their daily rituals and bear close resemblance to similar texts employed by the Śvētāmbara, suggesting the possibility of their origin in the canonical period prior to the division of the community.\n\nThe last group consists of eight short texts called Prabhrta (Pkt. pahuda, i.e., a gift or a treatise), probably compilations from some older sources, on such topics as the right view (Darsanaprabhrta, in 36 verses), right conduct (Charitraprabhrta, in 44 verses), the scripture (Sutraprabhrta, in 27 verses), and so forth.\n\nVarious Jain texts mention that \"Acharya Kundkunda\" wrote '84 Pahurs', and only some of them are available at present.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40319641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40319641", "title": "Ledger Wood", "text": "Ledger Wood\n\nLedger Wood (September 4, 1901 – December 7, 1970) was a twentieth-century American philosopher.\n\nWood received his doctorate from Cornell University in 1926 and was appointed assistant professor of Philosophy at Princeton University in 1927. He remained a member of the Princeton Philosophy Department for 43 years, serving as departmental chair from 1952 to 1960. After his retirement in 1970, he was appointed McCosh Professor of Philosophy Emeritus.\n"}
{"id": "24254265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24254265", "title": "Legal Education and the Reproduction of Hierarchy", "text": "Legal Education and the Reproduction of Hierarchy\n\nLegal Education and the Reproduction of Hierarchy: A Polemic Against the System is an essay by Duncan Kennedy on legal education in the United States of America. The work is a critique of American legal education and argues that legal education reinforces class, race, and gender inequality.\n\nThe article was first self-published as a pamphlet in 1983. The pamphlet was subsequently reviewed in several major law journals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59121", "title": "Logical abacus", "text": "Logical abacus\n\nA logical abacus is a mechanical digital computer.\nAlso referred to as a \"logical machine\", the logical abacus is analogous to the ordinary (mathematical) abacus. It is based on the principle of truth tables.\n\nIt is constructed to show all the possible combinations of a set of logical terms with their negatives, and, further, the way in which these combinations are affected by the addition of attributes or other limiting words, i.e., to simplify mechanically the solution of logical problems. These instruments are all more or less elaborate developments of the \"logical slate\", on which were written in vertical columns all the combinations of symbols or letters that could logically be made out of a definite number of terms. These were compared with any given premises, and incompatible ones crossed off. In the abacus the combinations are inscribed each on a single slip of wood or similar substance, which is moved by a key; incompatible combinations can thus be mechanically removed at will, in accordance with any given series of premises.\n\nThe principal examples of such machines are those of William Stanley Jevons (\"logic piano\"), John Venn, and Allan Marquand.\n\n"}
{"id": "7764752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7764752", "title": "Microcosmic orbit", "text": "Microcosmic orbit\n\nThe \"'Microcosmic Orbit\" (小周天), also known as the 'Self Winding Wheel of the Law' and the circulation of light is a Taoist Qigong or Taoist yoga Qi energy cultivation technique. It involves deep breathing exercises in conjunction with meditation and concentration techniques which develop the flow of qi along certain pathways of energy in the human body which may be familiar to those who are studying Traditional Chinese Medicine, Qigong, T'ai chi ch'uan, Neidan and Taoist alchemy. The exercise can be performed usually at first in a sitting position, but it can also be practiced standing as in Zhan zhuang or with movements included as with T'ai chi ch'uan. The clear understanding of the microcosmic orbit technique is very important not only because of its historical context in the story of Chinese alchemy but because it is at the heart of many Taoist forms of exercise performed throughout the world by many millions of people today.\n\nThe history of the Microcosmic orbit dates back to prehistoric times in China, and the underlying principles can be found in the I Ching which according to legend was written by the Emperor Fu Xi approximately five thousand years ago or at least two centuries before the time of the Yellow Emperor. For example, the Chinese character for the I Ching hexagram number 5, Waiting, depicts a person sitting in meditation and the commentary pertains to the flow of energy from one of the psychic energy channels to another during meditation:\n\nThe commentary on the Image for hexagram 5 reveals the entire process of meditation. \"The clouds rise up to heaven\" symbolizes the meditator's energy rising upward as it evaporates into the head, where it is distilled into a saliva like nectar (referred to in the phrase \"the superior man eats and drinks\"), which returns to the abdomen. \" It furthers one to cross the great water\" alludes to crossing the great water of the abdomen and mouth.\n\nLao Tzu and Chuang Tzu have also alluded to the technique of meditation and encouraging circulation of energy through the psychic meridians in their writings.\nFor example, Chuang Tzu's chapter entitled \"Yang Sheng Chu\" or \"Principles of Health and Longevity\" states:\n\"Use your mind to carry the vital energy along your Tu Mo upward constantly\"\nA stone carving in the White Cloud Temple in Beijing which bears an inscription \"the sixth month of the year Ping-hsu of the Kuang-hsu era\" (1886) contains a pictorial representation of some of the symbols which describe the processes involved in the microcosmic orbit meditation technique. These particular techniques are derived from the Taoist Patriarch Lü Dongbin who was born in 798 AD.\nLü Dongbin was one of the Eight Immortals.\n\nLü Dongbin and his teacher, Chung-li Ch'üan, were two of the \"Eight Immortals”, pa-hsien. While a fugitive after an abortive Chinese military expedition against Tibet, Chung-li Ch'uan encountered Master Tung-hua. He \"earnestly begged for the secrets of immortality. Master Tung-hua thereupon imparted to him not only an infallible magic process for attaining longevity, but also the method to produce the Philosopher's Stone.\"\n\nThe exercise itself usually begins with preparation designed to relax the physical body and develop the ability to concentrate. Students may indeed be encouraged to practice Taoist Yoga exercises or T'ai chi ch'uan as a way of building enough energy to begin performing the Microcosmic orbit exercise as it can induce a strain on the nervous system and cause energy depletion if practiced without adequate preparation.\n\nTo begin with the student is encouraged to develop deep abdominal breathing into the primary Dantian or Taoist energy centre to develop heat and pressure in the lower abdomen or \"Golden Stove\". A preparatory exercise known by some as the Lesser Heavenly circulation involves moving energy between two areas known as the seat of fire near the heart or the solar plexus where a psychic centre symbolised by the trigram Li from the I Ching is located, and the seat of water in the area of the kidneys where a psychic centre symbolised by the trigram kan is located.\n\nNormally essence or Jing can flow either way through the eight extra meridians or energy pathways in the body, but in the microcosmic orbit meditation exercise Jing is encouraged to flow upwards along the Governor vessel during inhalation and then downwards along the conception vessel returning to the Dantian on the exhalation. This means that energy flows from the Dantian downwards to the base of the spine then up the back along the centre line of the body to the crown of the head, then over the head and down the front centre line of the body and back to the starting point again making a full circle or orbit. This prevents the body's natural essences from becoming depleted as they normally flow downwards from the brain or 'sea of marrow' and are lost during ejaculation or menstruation during the reproductive processes. It is this Jing or essence which is responsible for the reproductive processes in the body which allow the body to rejuvenate itself as well as for the reproductive processes which give rise to offspring, essence is also an important component in the manufacture of qi which can be translated into English as vitality or energy, the primary motive force which is life itself. This raising and lowering Jing through the Microcosmic orbit and returning it to the Dantian purifies the essence and transforms it into Qi or vitality.\n\nAs well as the lower dantian or cauldron there are other important points along the circuit of energy flow which include the 'three gates' which are areas where it is considered that energy may stagnate, these are the Wei-lu or Tailbone gate, the Dorsal gate on the back roughly level with the heart, and the Jade pillow on the back of the head. Other important areas include the Ming Men or gate of fire on the back about level with the kidneys and the Baihui or Niwan which is directly on top of the head.\n\nThe microcosmic orbit should be viewed in the context of a variety of Taoist exercises and techniques designed to purify the body physically, mentally and spiritually, improve health and longevity, and prepare the way for meditation, and also including other techniques such as the Macrocosmic orbit which means circulating energy into the other psychic energy meridians which flow around the torso and out into the arms and legs. These types of exercises are best practiced under the guidance of suitably qualified teachers who can help the beginner avoid any pitfalls and misunderstandings along the way rather than copied from books, especially if the subject may have a history of mental illness or emotional imbalance. For example, according to Lu Kuan Yu:\n\nIt is harmful to pinpoint places in the body, the very idea of which should be relinquished since it hinders the course of the inner fire and of vitality.\n\n"}
{"id": "34777156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34777156", "title": "Nanda Thein Zan", "text": "Nanda Thein Zan\n\nNanda Thein Zan (; 21 February 1947 – 14 August 2011) was a well-known author from Burma who wrote on philosophy and Buddhism.\n\nNanda Thein Zan was born on 21 February 1947 in Paungde Township of Pegu Division, the youngest of three siblings.\nAt an early age he began writing under the pen name \"Thein Zan\" in the \"Thit Bawa Magazine\".\nHis first article was on \"Memory and Thought\", appearing in the November 1963 issue.\nLater he changed his pen name to \"Nandar Thein Zan\" to avoid confusion with another writer publishing under the name \"Thein Zan\".\nHe studied at the University of Rangoon, obtaining a BA degree in 1966 and a Master's degree in philosophy in 1968.\nHis master's thesis was on \"Definition and Truth of Life\".\n\nStarting in 1969, Nanda Thein Zan published at least 18 books about philosophy and Buddhism.\nHe had a talent for explaining philosophical concepts in easily understood terms.\nHis work included a widely acclaimed collection of lectures he had given at the Rangoon Workers' College published under the title \"Passing Over Rough Ground\".\nThis work was translated into English by the poet Moe Hein.\nHe also wrote well-received books on the economic and military strategies of Chinese philosopher Sun Tzu.\n\nIn 1970 Nanda Thein Zan obtained a position as a tutor in the philosophy department at the University of Rangoon.\nBetween 1972 and 2003 he also served as a tutor, lecturer and assistant professor at the University of Mawlamyine, Dawei College and Pathein Degree College. In the 1980s and 1990s his work had considerable influence on young people.\nHe was appointed professor and head of the University of Rangoon philosophy department in 2003, holding that position until he retired in 2008.\nOn 1 April 2004 he was honored with the title \"Maha Thaddama Zawtika\" by the government.\nIn May 2011 he received a Sayawun Tin Shwe Award for his work \"Naung-ta-kin-ya-tho\".\n\nNanda Thein Zan died in Rangoon on 14 August 2011 after suffering from lung problems. He was survived by his wife Khin Mar Mar.\n"}
{"id": "323592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323592", "title": "Nicolaus Copernicus", "text": "Nicolaus Copernicus\n\nNicolaus Copernicus (; ; ; 19 February 1473 – 24 May 1543) was a Renaissance-era mathematician and astronomer who formulated a model of the universe that placed the Sun rather than the Earth at the center of the universe, in all likelihood independently of Aristarchus of Samos, who had formulated such a model some eighteen centuries earlier.\n\nThe publication of Copernicus' model in his book \"De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" (\"On the Revolutions of the Celestial Spheres\"), just before his death in 1543, was a major event in the history of science, triggering the Copernican Revolution and making a pioneering contribution to the Scientific Revolution.\n\nCopernicus was born and died in Royal Prussia, a region that had been part of the Kingdom of Poland since 1466. A polyglot and polymath, he obtained a doctorate in canon law and was also a mathematician, astronomer, physician, classics scholar, translator, governor, diplomat, and economist. In 1517 he derived a quantity theory of money – a key concept in economics – and in 1519 he formulated an economic principle that later came to be called Gresham's law.\n\nNicolaus Copernicus was born on 19 February 1473 in the city of Thorn (modern Toruń), in the province of Royal Prussia, in the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland. \nHis father was a merchant from Kraków and his mother was the daughter of a wealthy Toruń merchant. Nicolaus was the youngest of four children. His brother Andreas (Andrew) became an Augustinian canon at Frombork (Frauenburg). His sister Barbara, named after her mother, became a Benedictine nun and, in her final years, prioress of a convent in Chełmno (Kulm); she died after 1517. His sister Katharina married the businessman and Toruń city councilor Barthel Gertner and left five children, whom Copernicus looked after to the end of his life. Copernicus never married and is not known to have had children, but from at least 1531 until 1539 his relations with Anna Schilling, a live-in housekeeper, were seen as scandalous by two bishops of Warmia who urged him over the years to break off relations with his \"mistress\".\n\nCopernicus' father's family can be traced to a village in Silesia near Nysa (Neiße). The village's name has been variously spelled Kopernik, Copernik, Copernic, Kopernic, Coprirnik, and today Koperniki. \nIn the 14th century, members of the family began moving to various other Silesian cities, to the Polish capital, Kraków (1367), and to Toruń (1400). The father, Mikołaj the Elder, likely the son of Jan, came from the Kraków line.\n\nNicolaus was named after his father, who appears in records for the first time as a well-to-do merchant who dealt in copper, selling it mostly in Danzig (Gdańsk). He moved from Kraków to Toruń around 1458. Toruń, situated on the Vistula River, was at that time embroiled in the Thirteen Years' War, in which the Kingdom of Poland and the Prussian Confederation, an alliance of Prussian cities, gentry and clergy, fought the Teutonic Order over control of the region. In this war, Hanseatic cities like Danzig and Toruń, Nicolaus Copernicus's hometown, chose to support the Polish King, Casimir IV Jagiellon, who promised to respect the cities' traditional vast independence, which the Teutonic Order had challenged. Nicolaus' father was actively engaged in the politics of the day and supported Poland and the cities against the Teutonic Order. In 1454 he mediated negotiations between Poland's Cardinal Zbigniew Oleśnicki and the Prussian cities for repayment of war loans. In the Second Peace of Thorn (1466), the Teutonic Order formally relinquished all claims to its western province, which as Royal Prussia remained a region of the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland until the First (1772) and Second (1793) Partitions of Poland.\n\nCopernicus's father married Barbara Watzenrode, the astronomer's mother, between 1461 and 1464. He died about 1483.\n\nNicolaus' mother, Barbara Watzenrode, was the daughter of a wealthy Toruń patrician and city councillor, Lucas Watzenrode the Elder (deceased 1462), and Katarzyna (widow of Jan Peckau), mentioned in other sources as \"Katarzyna Rüdiger gente Modlibóg\" (deceased 1476). The Modlibógs were a prominent Polish family who had been well known in Poland's history since 1271. The Watzenrode family, like the Kopernik family, had come from Silesia from near Świdnica (Schweidnitz), and after 1360 had settled in Toruń. They soon became one of the wealthiest and most influential patrician families. Through the Watzenrodes' extensive family relationships by marriage, Copernicus was related to wealthy families of Toruń (Thorn), Gdańsk (Danzig) and Elbląg (Elbing), and to prominent Polish noble families of Prussia: the Czapskis, Działyńskis, Konopackis and Kościeleckis. Lucas and Katherine had three children: Lucas Watzenrode the Younger (1447–1512), who would become Bishop of Warmia and Copernicus's patron; Barbara, the astronomer's mother (deceased after 1495); and Christina (deceased before 1502), who in 1459 married the Toruń merchant and mayor, Tiedeman von Allen.\nLucas Watzenrode the Elder, a wealthy merchant and in 1439–62 president of the judicial bench, was a decided opponent of the Teutonic Knights. In 1453 he was the delegate from Toruń at the Grudziądz (Graudenz) conference that planned the uprising against them. During the ensuing Thirteen Years' War (1454–66), he actively supported the Prussian cities' war effort with substantial monetary subsidies (only part of which he later re-claimed), with political activity in Toruń and Danzig, and by personally fighting in battles at Łasin (Lessen) and Malbork (Marienburg). He died in 1462.\n\nLucas Watzenrode the Younger, the astronomer's maternal uncle and patron, was educated at the University of Kraków (now Jagiellonian University) and at the universities of Cologne and Bologna. He was a bitter opponent of the Teutonic Order, and its Grand Master once referred to him as \"the devil incarnate\". In 1489 Watzenrode was elected Bishop of Warmia (Ermeland, Ermland) against the preference of King Casimir IV, who had hoped to install his own son in that seat. As a result, Watzenrode quarreled with the king until Casimir IV's death three years later. Watzenrode was then able to form close relations with three successive Polish monarchs: John I Albert, Alexander Jagiellon, and Sigismund I the Old. He was a friend and key advisor to each ruler, and his influence greatly strengthened the ties between Warmia and Poland proper. Watzenrode came to be considered the most powerful man in Warmia, and his wealth, connections and influence allowed him to secure Copernicus' education and career as a canon at Frombork Cathedral.\n\nCopernicus is postulated to have spoken Latin, German, and Polish with equal fluency; he also spoke Greek and Italian, and had some knowledge of Hebrew. The vast majority of Copernicus's extant writings are in Latin, the language of European academia in his lifetime.\n\nArguments for German being Copernicus's native tongue are that he was born in a predominantly German-speaking city and that, while studying canon law at Bologna in 1496, he signed into the German \"natio\" (\"Natio Germanorum\")—a student organization which, according to its 1497 by-laws, was open to students of all kingdoms and states whose mother-tongue was German. However, according to French philosopher Alexandre Koyré, Copernicus's registration with the \"Natio Germanorum\" does not in itself imply that Copernicus considered himself German, since students from Prussia and Silesia were routinely so categorized, which carried certain privileges that made it a natural choice for German-speaking students, regardless of their ethnicity or self-identification.\n\nThe surname \"Kopernik\", \"Copernik\", \"Koppernigk\" is recorded in Kraków from c. 1350, in various spellings, apparently given to people from the village of Koperniki (prior to 1845 rendered Kopernik, \"Copernik, Copirnik\" and \"Koppirnik\") in the Duchy of Nysa. Nicolas Copernicus' great-grandfather is recorded as having received citizenship in Kraków in 1386. The toponym \"Kopernik\" (modern \"Koperniki\") has been variously tied to the Polish word for \"dill\" (\"koper\") and German for copper (\"Kupfer\"). The suffix -nik (or plural -niki) denotes a Slavic and Polish agent noun, though. \nAs was common in the period, the spellings of both the toponym and the surname vary greatly. Copernicus \"was rather indifferent about orthography\". During his childhood, about 1480, the name of his father (and thus of the future astronomer) was recorded in Thorn as \"Niclas Koppernigk\". \nAt Kraków he signed himself, in Latin, \"Nicolaus Nicolai de Torunia\" (Nicolaus, son of Nicolaus, of Toruń). At Bologna, in 1496, he registered in the \"Matricula Nobilissimi Germanorum Collegii, resp. Annales Clarissimae Nacionis Germanorum\", of the \"Natio Germanica Bononiae\", as \"Dominus Nicolaus Kopperlingk de Thorn – IX grosseti\". At Padua he signed himself \"Nicolaus Copernik\", later \"Coppernicus\". The astronomer thus Latinized his name to \"Coppernicus\", generally with two \"p\"s (in 23 of 31 documents studied), but later in life he used a single \"p\". On the title page of \"De revolutionibus\", Rheticus published the name (in the genitive, or possessive, case) as \"Nicolai Copernici\".\n\nUpon his father's death, young Nicolaus' maternal uncle, Lucas Watzenrode the Younger (1447–1512), took the boy under his wing and saw to his education and career. Watzenrode maintained contacts with leading intellectual figures in Poland and was a friend of the influential Italian-born humanist and Kraków courtier, Filippo Buonaccorsi. There are no surviving primary documents on the early years of Copernicus's childhood and education. Copernicus biographers assume that Watzenrode first sent young Copernicus to St. John's School, at Toruń, where he himself had been a master. Later, according to Armitage, the boy attended the Cathedral School at Włocławek, up the Vistula River from Toruń, which prepared pupils for entrance to the University of Kraków, Watzenrode's alma mater in Poland's capital.\nIn the winter semester of 1491–92 Copernicus, as \"Nicolaus Nicolai de Thuronia\", matriculated together with his brother Andrew at the University of Kraków (now Jagiellonian University). Copernicus began his studies in the Department of Arts (from the fall of 1491, presumably until the summer or fall of 1495) in the heyday of the Kraków astronomical-mathematical school, acquiring the foundations for his subsequent mathematical achievements. According to a later but credible tradition (Jan Brożek), Copernicus was a pupil of Albert Brudzewski, who by then (from 1491) was a professor of Aristotelian philosophy but taught astronomy privately outside the university; Copernicus became familiar with Brudzewski's widely read commentary to Georg von Peuerbach's \"Theoricæ novæ planetarum\" and almost certainly attended the lectures of Bernard of Biskupie and Wojciech Krypa of Szamotuły, and probably other astronomical lectures by Jan of Głogów, Michał of Wrocław (Breslau), Wojciech of Pniewy, and Marcin Bylica of Olkusz.\n\nCopernicus' Kraków studies gave him a thorough grounding in the mathematical astronomy taught at the University (arithmetic, geometry, geometric optics, cosmography, theoretical and computational astronomy) and a good knowledge of the philosophical and natural-science writings of Aristotle (\"De coelo\", \"Metaphysics\") and Averroes (which in the future would play an important role in the shaping of Copernicus' theory), stimulating his interest in learning and making him conversant with humanistic culture. Copernicus broadened the knowledge that he took from the university lecture halls with independent reading of books that he acquired during his Kraków years (Euclid, Haly Abenragel, the \"Alfonsine Tables\", Johannes Regiomontanus' \"Tabulae directionum\"); to this period, probably, also date his earliest scientific notes, now preserved partly at Uppsala University. At Kraków Copernicus began collecting a large library on astronomy; it would later be carried off as war booty by the Swedes during the Deluge in the 1650s and is now at the Uppsala University Library.\n\nCopernicus' four years at Kraków played an important role in the development of his critical faculties and initiated his analysis of logical contradictions in the two \"official\" systems of astronomy—Aristotle's theory of homocentric spheres, and Ptolemy's mechanism of eccentrics and epicycles—the surmounting and discarding of which would be the first step toward the creation of Copernicus' own doctrine of the structure of the universe.\n\nWithout taking a degree, probably in the fall of 1495, Copernicus left Kraków for the court of his uncle Watzenrode, who in 1489 had been elevated to Prince-Bishop of Warmia and soon (before November 1495) sought to place his nephew in the Warmia canonry vacated by the 26 August 1495 death of its previous tenant, Jan Czanow. For unclear reasons—probably due to opposition from part of the chapter, who appealed to Rome—Copernicus' installation was delayed, inclining Watzenrode to send both his nephews to study canon law in Italy, seemingly with a view to furthering their ecclesiastic careers and thereby also strengthening his own influence in the Warmia chapter.\nLeaving Warmia in mid-1496—possibly with the retinue of the chapter's chancellor, Jerzy Pranghe, who was going to Italy—in the fall, possibly in October, Copernicus arrived in Bologna and a few months later (after 6 January 1497) signed himself into the register of the Bologna University of Jurists' \"German nation\", which included young Poles from Silesia, Prussia and Pomerania as well as students of other nationalities.\n\nIt was only on 20 October 1497 that Copernicus, by proxy, formally succeeded to the Warmia canonry which had been granted to him two years earlier. To this, by a document dated 10 January 1503 at Padua, he would add a sinecure at the Collegiate Church of the Holy Cross and St. Bartholomew in Wrocław (at the time in the Kingdom of Bohemia). Despite having been granted a papal indult on 29 November 1508 to receive further benefices, through his ecclesiastic career Copernicus not only did not acquire further prebends and higher stations (prelacies) at the chapter, but in 1538 he relinquished the Wrocław sinecure. It is unclear whether he was ever ordained a priest. Edward Rosen asserts that he was not. Copernicus did take minor orders, which sufficed for assuming a chapter canonry. \"The Catholic Encyclopedia\" proposes that his ordination was probable, as in 1537 he was one of four candidates for the episcopal seat of Warmia, a position which required ordination.\n\nDuring his three-year stay at Bologna, between fall 1496 and spring 1501, Copernicus seems to have devoted himself less keenly to studying canon law (he received his doctorate in law only after seven years, following a second return to Italy in 1503) than to studying the humanities—probably attending lectures by Filippo Beroaldo, Antonio Urceo, called Codro, Giovanni Garzoni, and Alessandro Achillini—and to studying astronomy. He met the famous astronomer Domenico Maria Novara da Ferrara and became his disciple and assistant. Copernicus was developing new ideas inspired by reading the \"Epitome of the Almagest\" (\"Epitome in Almagestum Ptolemei\") by George von Peuerbach and Johannes Regiomontanus (Venice, 1496). He verified its observations about certain peculiarities in Ptolemy's theory of the Moon's motion, by conducting on 9 March 1497 at Bologna a memorable observation of the occultation of Aldebaran, the brightest star in the Taurus constellation, by the moon. Copernicus the humanist sought confirmation for his growing doubts through close reading of Greek and Latin authors (Pythagoras, Aristarchos of Samos, Cleomedes, Cicero, Pliny the Elder, Plutarch, Philolaus, Heraclides, Ecphantos, Plato), gathering, especially while at Padua, fragmentary historic information about ancient astronomical, cosmological and calendar systems.\n\nCopernicus spent the jubilee year 1500 in Rome, where he arrived with his brother Andrew that spring, doubtless to perform an apprenticeship at the Papal Curia. Here, too, however, he continued his astronomical work begun at Bologna, observing, for example, a lunar eclipse on the night of 5–6 November 1500. According to a later account by Rheticus, Copernicus also—probably privately, rather than at the Roman \"Sapienza\"—as a \"Professor Mathematum\" (professor of astronomy) delivered, \"to numerous... students and... leading masters of the science\", public lectures devoted probably to a critique of the mathematical solutions of contemporary astronomy.\n\nOn his return journey doubtless stopping briefly at Bologna, in mid-1501 Copernicus arrived back in Warmia. After on 28 July receiving from the chapter a two-year extension of leave in order to study medicine (since \"he may in future be a useful medical advisor to our Reverend Superior [Bishop Lucas Watzenrode] and the gentlemen of the chapter\"), in late summer or in the fall he returned again to Italy, probably accompanied by his brother Andrew and by Canon Bernhard Sculteti. This time he studied at the University of Padua, famous as a seat of medical learning, and—except for a brief visit to Ferrara in May–June 1503 to pass examinations for, and receive, his doctorate in canon law—he remained at Padua from fall 1501 to summer 1503.\n\nCopernicus studied medicine probably under the direction of leading Padua professors—Bartolomeo da Montagnana, Girolamo Fracastoro, Gabriele Zerbi, Alessandro Benedetti—and read medical treatises that he acquired at this time, by Valescus de Taranta, Jan Mesue, Hugo Senensis, Jan Ketham, Arnold de Villa Nova, and Michele Savonarola, which would form the embryo of his later medical library.\n\nOne of the subjects that Copernicus must have studied was astrology, since it was considered an important part of a medical education. However, unlike most other prominent Renaissance astronomers, he appears never to have practiced or expressed any interest in astrology.\n\nAs at Bologna, Copernicus did not limit himself to his official studies. It was probably the Padua years that saw the beginning of his Hellenistic interests. He familiarized himself with Greek language and culture with the aid of Theodorus Gaza's grammar (1495) and J.B. Chrestonius' dictionary (1499), expanding his studies of antiquity, begun at Bologna, to the writings of Basilius Bessarion, Lorenzo Valla and others. There also seems to be evidence that it was during his Padua stay that the idea finally crystallized, of basing a new system of the world on the movement of the Earth.\nAs the time approached for Copernicus to return home, in spring 1503 he journeyed to Ferrara where, on 31 May 1503, having passed the obligatory examinations, he was granted the degree of Doctor of Canon Law (\"Nicolaus Copernich de Prusia, Jure Canonico ... et doctoratus\"). No doubt it was soon after (at latest, in fall 1503) that he left Italy for good to return to Warmia.\n\nCopernicus made three observations of Mercury, with errors of -3, -15 and -1 minutes of arc. He made one of Venus, with an error of -24 minutes. Four were made of Mars, with errors of 2, 20, 77, and 137 minutes. Four observations were made of Jupiter, with errors of 32, 51, -11 and 25 minutes. He made four of Saturn, with errors of 31, 20, 23 and -4 minutes.\n\nHaving completed all his studies in Italy, 30-year-old Copernicus returned to Warmia, where he would live out the remaining 40 years of his life, apart from brief journeys to Kraków and to nearby Prussian cities: Toruń (Thorn), Gdańsk (Danzig), Elbląg (Elbing), Grudziądz (Graudenz), Malbork (Marienburg), Königsberg (Królewiec).\n\nThe Prince-Bishopric of Warmia enjoyed substantial autonomy, with its own diet (parliament) and monetary unit (the same as in the other parts of Royal Prussia) and treasury.\n\nCopernicus was his uncle's secretary and physician from 1503 to 1510 (or perhaps till his uncle's death on 29 March 1512) and resided in the Bishop's castle at Lidzbark (Heilsberg), where he began work on his heliocentric theory. In his official capacity, he took part in nearly all his uncle's political, ecclesiastic and administrative-economic duties. From the beginning of 1504, Copernicus accompanied Watzenrode to sessions of the Royal Prussian diet held at Malbork and Elbląg and, write Dobrzycki and Hajdukiewicz, \"participated... in all the more important events in the complex diplomatic game that ambitious politician and statesman played in defense of the particular interests of Prussia and Warmia, between hostility to the [Teutonic] Order and loyalty to the Polish Crown.\"\n\nIn 1504–12 Copernicus made numerous journeys as part of his uncle's retinue—in 1504, to Toruń and Gdańsk, to a session of the Royal Prussian Council in the presence of Poland's King Alexander Jagiellon; to sessions of the Prussian diet at Malbork (1506), Elbląg (1507) and Sztum (Stuhm) (1512); and he may have attended a Poznań (Posen) session (1510) and the coronation of Poland's King Sigismund I the Old in Kraków (1507). Watzenrode's itinerary suggests that in spring 1509 Copernicus may have attended the Kraków sejm.\n\nIt was probably on the latter occasion, in Kraków, that Copernicus submitted for printing at Jan Haller's press his translation, from Greek to Latin, of a collection, by the 7th-century Byzantine historian Theophylact Simocatta, of 85 brief poems called Epistles, or letters, supposed to have passed between various characters in a Greek story. They are of three kinds—\"moral,\" offering advice on how people should live; \"pastoral\", giving little pictures of shepherd life; and \"amorous\", comprising love poems. They are arranged to follow one another in a regular rotation of subjects. Copernicus had translated the Greek verses into Latin prose, and he now published his version as \"Theophilacti scolastici Simocati epistolae morales, rurales et amatoriae interpretatione latina\", which he dedicated to his uncle in gratitude for all the benefits he had received from him. With this translation, Copernicus declared himself on the side of the humanists in the struggle over the question whether Greek literature should be revived. Copernicus's first poetic work was a Greek epigram, composed probably during a visit to Kraków, for Johannes Dantiscus' epithalamium for Barbara Zapolya's 1512 wedding to King Zygmunt I the Old.\n\nSome time before 1514, Copernicus wrote an initial outline of his heliocentric theory known only from later transcripts, by the title (perhaps given to it by a copyist), \"Nicolai Copernici de hypothesibus motuum coelestium a se constitutis commentariolus\"—commonly referred to as the \"Commentariolus\". It was a succinct theoretical description of the world's heliocentric mechanism, without mathematical apparatus, and differed in some important details of geometric construction from \"De revolutionibus\"; but it was already based on the same assumptions regarding Earth's triple motions. The \"Commentariolus\", which Copernicus consciously saw as merely a first sketch for his planned book, was not intended for printed distribution. He made only a very few manuscript copies available to his closest acquaintances, including, it seems, several Kraków astronomers with whom he collaborated in 1515–30 in observing eclipses. Tycho Brahe would include a fragment from the \"Commentariolus\" in his own treatise, \"Astronomiae instauratae progymnasmata\", published in Prague in 1602, based on a manuscript that he had received from the Bohemian physician and astronomer Tadeáš Hájek, a friend of Rheticus. The \"Commentariolus\" would appear complete in print for the first time only in 1878.\n\nIn 1510 or 1512 Copernicus moved to Frombork, a town to the northwest at the Vistula Lagoon on the Baltic Sea coast. There, in April 1512, he participated in the election of Fabian of Lossainen as Prince-Bishop of Warmia. It was only in early June 1512 that the chapter gave Copernicus an \"external curia\"—a house outside the defensive walls of the cathedral mount. In 1514 he purchased the northwestern tower within the walls of the Frombork stronghold. He would maintain both these residences to the end of his life, despite the devastation of the chapter's buildings by a raid against Frauenburg carried out by the Teutonic Order in January 1520, during which Copernicus's astronomical instruments were probably destroyed. Copernicus conducted astronomical observations in 1513–16 presumably from his external curia; and in 1522–43, from an unidentified \"small tower\" (\"turricula\"), using primitive instruments modeled on ancient ones—the quadrant, triquetrum, armillary sphere. At Frombork Copernicus conducted over half of his more than 60 registered astronomical observations.\n\nHaving settled permanently at Frombork, where he would reside to the end of his life, with interruptions in 1516–19 and 1520–21, Copernicus found himself at the Warmia chapter's economic and administrative center, which was also one of Warmia's two chief centers of political life. In the difficult, politically complex situation of Warmia, threatened externally by the Teutonic Order's aggressions (attacks by Teutonic bands; the Polish-Teutonic War of 1519–21; Albert's plans to annex Warmia), internally subject to strong separatist pressures (the selection of the prince-bishops of Warmia; currency reform), he, together with part of the chapter, represented a program of strict cooperation with the Polish Crown and demonstrated in all his public activities (the defense of his country against the Order's plans of conquest; proposals to unify its monetary system with the Polish Crown's; support for Poland's interests in the Warmia dominion's ecclesiastic administration) that he was consciously a citizen of the Polish-Lithuanian Republic. Soon after the death of uncle Bishop Watzenrode, he participated in the signing of the Second Treaty of Piotrków Trybunalski (7 December 1512), governing the appointment of the Bishop of Warmia, declaring, despite opposition from part of the chapter, for loyal cooperation with the Polish Crown.\n\nThat same year (before 8 November 1512) Copernicus assumed responsibility, as \"magister pistoriae\", for administering the chapter's economic enterprises (he would hold this office again in 1530), having already since 1511 fulfilled the duties of chancellor and visitor of the chapter's estates.\n\nHis administrative and economic dutes did not distract Copernicus, in 1512–15, from intensive observational activity. The results of his observations of Mars and Saturn in this period, and especially a series of four observations of the Sun made in 1515, led to discovery of the variability of Earth's eccentricity and of the movement of the solar apogee in relation to the fixed stars, which in 1515–19 prompted his first revisions of certain assumptions of his system. Some of the observations that he made in this period may have had a connection with a proposed reform of the Julian calendar made in the first half of 1513 at the request of the Bishop of Fossombrone, Paul of Middelburg. Their contacts in this matter in the period of the Fifth Lateran Council were later memorialized in a complimentary mention in Copernicus's dedicatory epistle in \"Dē revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" and in a treatise by Paul of Middelburg, \"Secundum compendium correctionis Calendarii\" (1516), which mentions Copernicus among the learned men who had sent the Council proposals for the calendar's emendation.\n\nDuring 1516–21, Copernicus resided at Olsztyn (Allenstein) Castle as economic administrator of Warmia, including Olsztyn (Allenstein) and Pieniężno (Mehlsack). While there, he wrote a manuscript, \"Locationes mansorum desertorum\" (\"Locations of Deserted Fiefs\"), with a view to populating those fiefs with industrious farmers and so bolstering the economy of Warmia. When Olsztyn was besieged by the Teutonic Knights during the Polish–Teutonic War, Copernicus directed the defense of Olsztyn and Warmia by Royal Polish forces. He also represented the Polish side in the ensuing peace negotiations.\n\nCopernicus for years advised the Royal Prussian sejmik on monetary reform, particularly in the 1520s when that was a major question in regional Prussian politics. In 1526 he wrote a study on the value of money, \"Monetae cudendae ratio\". In it he formulated an early iteration of the theory, now called Gresham's law, that \"bad\" (debased) coinage drives \"good\" (un-debased) coinage out of circulation—several decades before Thomas Gresham. He also, in 1517, set down a quantity theory of money, a principal concept in economics to the present day. Copernicus's recommendations on monetary reform were widely read by leaders of both Prussia and Poland in their attempts to stabilize currency.\n\nIn 1533, Johann Widmanstetter, secretary to Pope Clement VII, explained Copernicus's heliocentric system to the Pope and two cardinals. The Pope was so pleased that he gave Widmanstetter a valuable gift. In 1535 Bernard Wapowski wrote a letter to a gentleman in Vienna, urging him to publish an enclosed almanac, which he claimed had been written by Copernicus. This is the only mention of a Copernicus almanac in the historical records. The \"almanac\" was likely Copernicus's tables of planetary positions. Wapowski's letter mentions Copernicus's theory about the motions of the earth. Nothing came of Wapowski's request, because he died a couple of weeks later.\n\nFollowing the death of Prince-Bishop of Warmia Mauritius Ferber (1 July 1537), Copernicus participated in the election of his successor, Johannes Dantiscus (20 September 1537). Copernicus was one of four candidates for the post, written in at the initiative of Tiedemann Giese; but his candidacy was actually \"pro forma\", since Dantiscus had earlier been named coadjutor bishop to Ferber and since Dantiscus had the backing of Poland's King Sigismund I. At first Copernicus maintained friendly relations with the new Prince-Bishop, assisting him medically in spring 1538 and accompanying him that summer on an inspection tour of Chapter holdings. But that autumn, their friendship was strained by suspicions over Copernicus's housekeeper, Anna Schilling, whom Dantiscus banished from Frombork in spring 1539.\n\nIn his younger days, Copernicus the physician had treated his uncle, brother and other chapter members. In later years he was called upon to attend the elderly bishops who in turn occupied the see of Warmia—Mauritius Ferber and Johannes Dantiscus – and, in 1539, his old friend Tiedemann Giese, Bishop of Chełmno (Kulm). In treating such important patients, he sometimes sought consultations from other physicians, including the physician to Duke Albert and, by letter, the Polish Royal Physician.\nIn the spring of 1541, Duke Albert—former Grand Master of the Teutonic Order who had converted the Monastic State of the Teutonic Knights into a Lutheran and hereditary realm, the Duchy of Prussia, upon doing homage to his uncle, the King of Poland, Sigismund I—summoned Copernicus to Königsberg to attend the Duke's counselor, George von Kunheim, who had fallen seriously ill, and for whom the Prussian doctors seemed unable to do anything. Copernicus went willingly; he had met von Kunheim during negotiations over reform of the coinage. And Copernicus had come to feel that Albert himself was not such a bad person; the two had many intellectual interests in common. The Chapter readily gave Copernicus permission to go, as it wished to remain on good terms with the Duke, despite his Lutheran faith. In about a month the patient recovered, and Copernicus returned to Frombork. For a time, he continued to receive reports on von Kunheim's condition, and to send him medical advice by letter.\n\nSome of Copernicus's close friends turned Protestant, but Copernicus never showed a tendency in that direction. The first attacks on him came from Protestants. Wilhelm Gnapheus, a Dutch refugee settled in Elbląg, wrote a comedy in Latin, \"Morosophus\" (The Foolish Sage), and staged it at the Latin school that he had established there. In the play, Copernicus was caricatured as a haughty, cold, aloof man who dabbled in astrology, considered himself inspired by God, and was rumored to have written a large work that was moldering in a chest.\n\nElsewhere Protestants were the first to react to news of Copernicus's theory. Melanchthon wrote:\n\nNevertheless, in 1551, eight years after Copernicus's death, astronomer Erasmus Reinhold published, under the sponsorship of Copernicus's former military adversary, the Protestant Duke Albert, the \"Prussian Tables\", a set of astronomical tables based on Copernicus's work. Astronomers and astrologers quickly adopted it in place of its predecessors.\n\nSome time before 1514 Copernicus made available to friends his \"Commentariolus\" (\"Little Commentary\"), a manuscript describing his ideas about the heliocentric hypothesis. It contained seven basic assumptions (detailed below). Thereafter he continued gathering data for a more detailed work.\n\nAbout 1532 Copernicus had basically completed his work on the manuscript of \"Dē revolutionibus orbium coelestium\"; but despite urging by his closest friends, he resisted openly publishing his views, not wishing—as he confessed—to risk the scorn \"to which he would expose himself on account of the novelty and incomprehensibility of his theses.\"\n\nIn 1533, Johann Albrecht Widmannstetter delivered a series of lectures in Rome outlining Copernicus's theory. Pope Clement VII and several Catholic cardinals heard the lectures and were interested in the theory. On 1 November 1536, Cardinal Nikolaus von Schönberg, Archbishop of Capua, wrote to Copernicus from Rome:\n\nBy then Copernicus's work was nearing its definitive form, and rumors about his theory had reached educated people all over Europe. Despite urgings from many quarters, Copernicus delayed publication of his book, perhaps from fear of criticism—a fear delicately expressed in the subsequent dedication of his masterpiece to Pope Paul III. Scholars disagree on whether Copernicus's concern was limited to possible astronomical and philosophical objections, or whether he was also concerned about religious objections.\n\nCopernicus was still working on \"De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" (even if not certain that he wanted to publish it) when in 1539 Georg Joachim Rheticus, a Wittenberg mathematician, arrived in Frombork. Philipp Melanchthon, a close theological ally of Martin Luther, had arranged for Rheticus to visit several astronomers and study with them. Rheticus became Copernicus's pupil, staying with him for two years and writing a book, \"Narratio prima\" (First Account), outlining the essence of Copernicus's theory. In 1542 Rheticus published a treatise on trigonometry by Copernicus (later included as chapters 13 and 14 of Book I of \"De revolutionibus\").\nUnder strong pressure from Rheticus, and having seen the favorable first general reception of his work, Copernicus finally agreed to give \"De revolutionibus\" to his close friend, Tiedemann Giese, bishop of Chełmno (Kulm), to be delivered to Rheticus for printing by the German printer Johannes Petreius at Nuremberg (\"Nürnberg\"), Germany. While Rheticus initially supervised the printing, he had to leave Nuremberg before it was completed, and he handed over the task of supervising the rest of the printing to a Lutheran theologian, Andreas Osiander.\n\nOsiander added an unauthorised and unsigned preface, defending Copernicus' work against those who might be offended by its novel hypotheses. He argued that \"different hypotheses are sometimes offered for one and the same motion [and therefore] the astronomer will take as his first choice that hypothesis which is the easiest to grasp.\" According to Osiander, \"these hypotheses need not be true nor even probable. [I]f they provide a calculus consistent with the observations, that alone is enough.\"\n\nToward the close of 1542, Copernicus was seized with apoplexy and paralysis, and he died at age 70 on 24 May 1543. Legend has it that he was presented with the final printed pages of his \"Dē revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" on the very day that he died, allowing him to take farewell of his life's work. He is reputed to have awoken from a stroke-induced coma, looked at his book, and then died peacefully.\n\nCopernicus was reportedly buried in Frombork Cathedral, where a 1580 epitaph stood until being defaced; it was replaced in 1735. For over two centuries, archaeologists searched the cathedral in vain for Copernicus' remains. Efforts to locate them in 1802, 1909, 1939 had come to nought. In 2004 a team led by Jerzy Gąssowski, head of an archaeology and anthropology institute in Pułtusk, began a new search, guided by the research of historian Jerzy Sikorski. In August 2005, after scanning beneath the cathedral floor, they discovered what they believed to be Copernicus's remains.\nThe discovery was announced only after further research, on 3 November 2008. Gąssowski said he was \"almost 100 percent sure it is Copernicus\". Forensic expert Capt. Dariusz Zajdel of the Polish Police Central Forensic Laboratory used the skull to reconstruct a face that closely resembled the features—including a broken nose and a scar above the left eye—on a Copernicus self-portrait. The expert also determined that the skull belonged to a man who had died around age 70—Copernicus's age at the time of his death.\n\nThe grave was in poor condition, and not all the remains of the skeleton were found; missing, among other things, was the lower jaw. The DNA from the bones found in the grave matched hair samples taken from a book owned by Copernicus which was kept at the library of the University of Uppsala in Sweden.\n\nOn 22 May 2010 Copernicus was given a second funeral in a Mass led by Józef Kowalczyk, the former papal nuncio to Poland and newly named Primate of Poland. Copernicus's remains were reburied in the same spot in Frombork Cathedral where part of his skull and other bones had been found. A black granite tombstone now identifies him as the founder of the heliocentric theory and also a church canon. The tombstone bears a representation of Copernicus's model of the solar system—a golden sun encircled by six of the planets.\n\nPhilolaus (c. 480–385 BCE) described an astronomical system in which a Central Fire (different from the Sun) occupied the centre of the universe, and a counter-Earth, the Earth, Moon, the Sun itself, planets, and stars all revolved around it, in that order outward from the centre. Heraclides Ponticus (387–312 BCE) proposed that the Earth rotates on its axis.\nAristarchus of Samos (ca. 310 BCE – ca. 230 BCE) was the first to advance a theory that the earth orbited the sun. Further mathematical details of Aristarchus' heliocentric system were worked out around 150 BCE by the Hellenistic astronomer Seleucus of Seleucia. Though Aristarchus' original text has been lost, a reference in Archimedes' book \"The Sand Reckoner\" (\"Archimedis Syracusani Arenarius & Dimensio Circuli\") describes a work by Aristarchus in which he advanced the heliocentric model. Thomas Heath gives the following English translation of Archimedes' text:\n\nCopernicus cited Aristarchus of Samos in an early (unpublished) manuscript of \"De Revolutionibus\" (which still survives), though he removed the reference from his final published manuscript.\n\nCopernicus was probably aware that Pythagoras's system involved a moving earth. The Pythagorean system was mentioned by Aristotle.\n\nCopernicus owned a copy of Giorgio Valla's \"De expetendis et fugiendis rebus\", which included a translation of Plutarch's reference to Aristarchus's heliostaticism.\nIn Copernicus' dedication of \"On the Revolutions\" to Pope Paul III—which Copernicus hoped would dampen criticism of his heliocentric theory by \"babblers... completely ignorant of [astronomy]\"—the book's author wrote that, in rereading all of philosophy, in the pages of Cicero and Plutarch he had found references to those few thinkers who dared to move the Earth \"against the traditional opinion of astronomers and almost against common sense.\"\n\nBeginning in the 10th century, a tradition criticizing Ptolemy developed within Islamic astronomy, which climaxed with Ibn al-Haytham of Basra's \"Al-Shukūk 'alā Baṭalamiyūs\" (\"Doubts Concerning Ptolemy\"). Several Islamic astronomers questioned the Earth's apparent immobility, and centrality within the universe. Some accepted that the earth rotates around its axis, such as Abu Sa'id al-Sijzi (d. circa 1020). According to al-Biruni, al-Sijzi invented an astrolabe based on a belief held by some of his contemporaries \"that the motion we see is due to the Earth's movement and not to that of the sky.\" That others besides al-Sijzi held this view is further confirmed by a reference from an Arabic work in the 13th century which states: According to the geometers [or engineers] (\"muhandisīn\"), the earth is in constant circular motion, and what appears to be the motion of the heavens is actually due to the motion of the earth and not the stars. In the 12th century, Nur ad-Din al-Bitruji proposed a complete alternative to the Ptolemaic system (although not heliocentric). He declared the Ptolemaic system as an imaginary model, successful at predicting planetary positions, but not real or physical. Al-Bitruji's alternative system spread through most of Europe during the 13th century, with debates and refutations of his ideas continued up to the 16th century.\n\nMathematical techniques developed in the 13th to 14th centuries by Mo'ayyeduddin al-Urdi, Nasir al-Din al-Tusi, and Ibn al-Shatir for geocentric models of planetary motions closely resemble some of those used later by Copernicus in his heliocentric models. Copernicus used what is now known as the Urdi lemma and the Tusi couple in the same planetary models as found in Arabic sources. Furthermore, the exact replacement of the equant by two epicycles used by Copernicus in the \"Commentariolus\" was found in an earlier work by Ibn al-Shatir (d. c. 1375) of Damascus. Ibn al-Shatir's lunar and Mercury models are also identical to those of Copernicus. This has led some scholars to argue that Copernicus must have had access to some yet to be identified work on the ideas of those earlier astronomers. \nHowever, no likely candidate for this conjectured work has yet come to light, and other scholars have argued that Copernicus could well have developed these ideas independently of the late Islamic tradition. Nevertheless, Copernicus cited some of the Islamic astronomers whose theories and observations he used in \"De Revolutionibus\", namely al-Battani, Thabit ibn Qurra, al-Zarqali, Averroes, and al-Bitruji.\n\nNilakantha Somayaji (1444–1544), in his Aryabhatiyabhasya, a commentary on Aryabhata's Aryabhatiya, developed a computational system for a partially heliocentric planetary model, in which the planets orbit the Sun, which in turn orbits the Earth, similar to the Tychonic system later proposed by Tycho Brahe in the late 16th century. In the Tantrasangraha (1500), he further revised his planetary system, which was mathematically more accurate at predicting the heliocentric orbits of the interior planets than both the Tychonic and Copernican models.\n\nThe prevailing theory in Europe during Copernicus's lifetime was the one that Ptolemy published in his \"Almagest\" circa 150 CE; the Earth was the stationary center of the universe. Stars were embedded in a large outer sphere which rotated rapidly, approximately daily, while each of the planets, the Sun, and the Moon were embedded in their own, smaller spheres. Ptolemy's system employed devices, including epicycles, deferents and equants, to account for observations that the paths of these bodies differed from simple, circular orbits centered on the Earth.\n\nCopernicus' major work on his heliocentric theory was \"Dē revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" (\"On the Revolutions of the Celestial Spheres\"), published in the year of his death, 1543. He had formulated his theory by 1510. \"He wrote out a short overview of his new heavenly arrangement [known as the \"Commentariolus\", or \"Brief Sketch\"], also probably in 1510 [but no later than May 1514], and sent it off to at least one correspondent beyond Varmia [the Latin for \"Warmia\"]. That person in turn copied the document for further circulation, and presumably the new recipients did, too...\"\n\nCopernicus' \"Commentariolus\" summarized his heliocentric theory. It listed the \"assumptions\" upon which the theory was based, as follows:\n1. There is no one center of all the celestial circles or spheres.<br>\n2. The center of the earth is not the center of the universe, but only the center towards which heavy bodies move and the center of the lunar sphere.<br>\n3. All the spheres surround the sun as if it were in the middle of them all, and therefore the center of the universe is near the sun.<br>\n4. The ratio of the earth's distance from the sun to the height of the firmament (outermost celestial sphere containing the stars) is so much smaller than the ratio of the earth's radius to its distance from the sun that the distance from the earth to the sun is imperceptible in comparison with the height of the firmament.<br>\n5. Whatever motion appears in the firmament arises not from any motion of the firmament, but from the earth's motion. The earth together with its circumjacent elements performs a complete rotation on its fixed poles in a daily motion, while the firmament and highest heaven abide unchanged.<br>\n6. What appear to us as motions of the sun arise not from its motion but from the motion of the earth and our sphere, with which we revolve about the sun like any other planet. The earth has, then, more than one motion.<br>\n7. The apparent retrograde and direct motion of the planets arises not from their motion but from the earth's. The motion of the earth alone, therefore, suffices to explain so many apparent inequalities in the heavens.\n\n\"De revolutionibus\" itself was divided into six sections or parts, called \"books\":\n\nGeorg Joachim Rheticus could have been Copernicus's successor, but did not rise to the occasion. Erasmus Reinhold could have been his successor, but died prematurely. The first of the great successors was Tycho Brahe (though he did not think the earth orbited the sun), followed by Johannes Kepler, who had collaborated with Tycho in Prague and benefited from Tycho's decades' worth of detailed observational data.\n\nDespite the near universal acceptance later of the heliocentric idea (though not the epicycles or the circular orbits), Copernicus's theory was originally slow to catch on. Scholars hold that sixty years after the publication of \"The Revolutions\" there were only around 15 astronomers espousing Copernicanism in all of Europe: \"Thomas Digges and Thomas Harriot in England; Giordano Bruno and Galileo Galilei in Italy; Diego Zuniga in Spain; Simon Stevin in the Low Countries; and in Germany, the largest group – Georg Joachim Rheticus, Michael Maestlin, Christoph Rothmann (who may have later recanted), and Johannes Kepler.\" Additional possibilities are Englishman William Gilbert, along with Achilles Gasser, Georg Vogelin, Valentin Otto, and Tiedemann Giese.\n\nArthur Koestler, in his popular book \"The Sleepwalkers\", asserted that Copernicus's book had not been widely read on its first publication. This claim was trenchantly criticised by Edward Rosen, and has been decisively disproved by Owen Gingerich, who examined nearly every surviving copy of the first two editions and found copious marginal notes by their owners throughout many of them. Gingerich published his conclusions in 2004 in \"The Book Nobody Read\".\n\nThe intellectual climate of the time \"remained dominated by Aristotelian philosophy and the corresponding Ptolemaic astronomy. At that time there was no reason to accept the Copernican theory, except for its mathematical simplicity [by avoiding using the equant in determining planetary positions].\" Tycho Brahe's system (\"that the earth is stationary, the sun revolves about the earth, and the other planets revolve about the sun\") also directly competed with Copernicus's. It was only a half century later with the work of Kepler and Galileo that any substantial evidence defending Copernicanism appeared, starting \"from the time when Galileo formulated the principle of inertia...[which] helped to explain why everything would not fall off the earth if it were in motion.\" \"[Not until] after Isaac Newton formulated the universal law of gravitation and the laws of mechanics [in his 1687 \"Principia\"], which unified terrestrial and celestial mechanics, was the heliocentric view generally accepted.\"\n\nThe immediate result of the 1543 publication of Copernicus's book was only mild controversy. At the Council of Trent (1545–63) neither Copernicus's theory nor calendar reform (which would later use tables deduced from Copernicus's calculations) were discussed. It has been much debated why it was not until six decades after the publication of \"De revolutionibus\" that the Catholic Church took any official action against it, even the efforts of Tolosani going unheeded. Catholic side opposition only commenced seventy-three years later, when it was occasioned by Galileo.\n\nThe first notable to move against Copernicanism was the Magister of the Holy Palace (i.e., the Catholic Church's chief censor), Dominican Bartolomeo Spina, who \"expressed a desire to stamp out the Copernican doctrine\". But with Spina's death in 1546, his cause fell to his friend, the well known theologian-astronomer, the Dominican Giovanni Maria Tolosani of the Convent of St. Mark in Florence. Tolosani had written a treatise on reforming the calendar (in which astronomy would play a large role) and had attended the Fifth Lateran Council (1512–17) to discuss the matter. He had obtained a copy of \"De Revolutionibus\" in 1544. His denunciation of Copernicanism was written a year later, in 1545, in an appendix to his unpublished work, \"On the Truth of Sacred Scripture\".\n\nEmulating the rationalistic style of Thomas Aquinas, Tolosani sought to refute Copernicanism by philosophical argument. Copernicanism was absurd, according to Tolosani, because it was scientifically unproven and unfounded. First, Copernicus had assumed the motion of the Earth but offered no physical theory whereby one would deduce this motion. (No one realized that the investigation into Copernicanism would result in a rethinking of the entire field of physics.) Second, Tolosani charged that Copernicus's thought process was backwards. He held that Copernicus had come up with his idea and then sought phenomena that would support it, rather than observing phenomena and deducing from them the idea of what caused them. In this, Tolosani was linking Copernicus's mathematical equations with the practices of the Pythagoreans (whom Aristotle had made arguments against, which were later picked up by Thomas Aquinas). It was argued that mathematical numbers were a mere product of the intellect without any physical reality, and as such could not provide physical causes in the investigation of nature.\n\nSome astronomical hypotheses at the time (such as epicycles and eccentrics) were seen as mere mathematical devices to adjust calculations of where the heavenly bodies would appear, rather than an explanation of the cause of those motions. (As Copernicus still maintained the idea of perfectly spherical orbits, he relied on epicycles.) This \"saving the phenomena\" was seen as proof that astronomy and mathematics could not be taken as serious means to determine physical causes. Tolosani invoked this view in his final critique of Copernicus, saying that his biggest error was that he had started with \"inferior\" fields of science to make pronouncements about \"superior\" fields. Copernicus had used mathematics and astronomy to postulate about physics and cosmology, rather than beginning with the accepted principles of physics and cosmology to determine things about astronomy and mathematics. Thus Copernicus seemed to be undermining the whole system of the philosophy of science at the time. Tolosani held that Copernicus had fallen into philosophical error because he had not been versed in physics and logic; anyone without such knowledge would make a poor astronomer and be unable to distinguish truth from falsehood. Because Copernicanism had not met the criteria for scientific truth set out by Thomas Aquinas, Tolosani held that it could only be viewed as a wild unproven theory.\n\nTolosani recognized that the \"Ad Lectorem\" preface to Copernicus's book was not actually by him. Its thesis that astronomy as a whole would never be able to make truth claims was rejected by Tolosani (though he still held that Copernicus's attempt to describe physical reality had been faulty); he found it ridiculous that \"Ad Lectorem\" had been included in the book (unaware that Copernicus had not authorized its inclusion). Tolosani wrote: \"By means of these words [of the \"Ad Lectorem\"], the foolishness of this book's author is rebuked. For by a foolish effort he [Copernicus] tried to revive the weak Pythagorean opinion [that the element of fire was at the center of the Universe], long ago deservedly destroyed, since it is expressly contrary to human reason and also opposes holy writ. From this situation, there could easily arise disagreements between Catholic expositors of holy scripture and those who might wish to adhere obstinately to this false opinion.\" Tolosani declared: \"Nicolaus Copernicus neither read nor understood the arguments of Aristotle the philosopher and Ptolemy the astronomer.\" Tolosani wrote that Copernicus \"is expert indeed in the sciences of mathematics and astronomy, but he is very deficient in the sciences of physics and logic. Moreover, it appears that he is unskilled with regard to [the interpretation of] holy scripture, since he contradicts several of its principles, not without danger of infidelity to himself and the readers of his book. ...his arguments have no force and can very easily be taken apart. For it is stupid to contradict an opinion accepted by everyone over a very long time for the strongest reasons, unless the impugner uses more powerful and insoluble demonstrations and completely dissolves the opposed reasons. But he does not do this in the least.\"\n\nTolosani declared that he had written against Copernicus \"for the purpose of preserving the truth to the common advantage of the Holy Church.\" Despite this, his work remained unpublished and there is no evidence that it received serious consideration. Robert Westman describes it as becoming a \"dormant\" viewpoint with \"no audience in the Catholic world\" of the late sixteenth century, but also notes that there is some evidence that it did become known to Tommaso Caccini, who would criticize Galileo in a sermon in December 1613.\n\nTolosani may have criticized the Copernican theory as scientifically unproven and unfounded, but the theory also conflicted with the theology of the time, as can be seen in a sample of the works of John Calvin. In his \"Commentary on Genesis\" he said that \"We indeed are not ignorant that the circuit of the heavens is finite, and that the earth, like a little globe, is placed in the centre.\" In his commentary on Psalms 93:1 he states that \"The heavens revolve daily, and, immense as is their fabric and inconceivable the rapidity of their revolutions, we experience no concussion... How could the earth hang suspended in the air were it not upheld by God's hand? By what means could it maintain itself unmoved, while the heavens above are in constant rapid motion, did not its Divine Maker fix and establish it.\" One sharp point of conflict between Copernicus's theory and the Bible concerned the story of the Battle of Gibeon in the Book of Joshua where the Hebrew forces were winning but whose opponents were likely to escape once night fell. This is averted by Joshua's prayers causing the sun and the moon to stand still. Martin Luther once made a remark about Copernicus, although without mentioning his name. According to Anthony Lauterbach, while eating with Martin Luther the topic of Copernicus arose during dinner on 4 June 1539 (in the same year as professor George Joachim Rheticus of the local University had been granted leave to visit him). Luther is said to have remarked \"So it goes now. Whoever wants to be clever must agree with nothing others esteem. He must do something of his own. This is what \"that fellow\" does who wishes to turn the whole of astronomy upside down. Even in these things that are thrown into disorder I believe the Holy Scriptures, for Joshua commanded the sun to stand still and not the earth.\" These remarks were made four years before the publication of \"On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres\" and a year before Rheticus' \"Narratio Prima\". In John Aurifaber's account of the conversation Luther calls Copernicus \"that fool\" rather than \"that fellow\", this version is viewed by historians as less reliably sourced.\n\nLuther's collaborator Philipp Melanchthon also took issue with Copernicanism. After receiving the first pages of \"Narratio Prima\" from Rheticus himself, Melanchthon wrote to Mithobius (physician and mathematician Burkard Mithob of Feldkirch) on 16 October 1541 condemning the theory and calling for it to be repressed by governmental force, writing \"certain people believe it is a marvelous achievement to extol so crazy a thing, like that Polish astronomer who makes the earth move and the sun stand still. Really, wise governments ought to repress impudence of mind.\" It had appeared to Rheticus that Melanchton would understand the theory and would be open to it. This was because Melanchton had taught Ptolemaic astronomy and had even recommended his friend Rheticus to an appointment to the Deanship of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences at the University of Wittenberg after he had returned from studying with Copernicus.\n\nRheticus' hopes were dashed when six years after the publication of \"De Revolutionibus\" Melanchthon published his \"Initia Doctrinae Physicae\" presenting three grounds to reject Copernicanism. These were \"the evidence of the senses, the thousand-year consensus of men of science, and the authority of the Bible\". Blasting the new theory Melanchthon wrote \"Out of love for novelty or in order to make a show of their cleverness, some people have argued that the earth moves. They maintain that neither the eighth sphere nor the sun moves, whereas they attribute motion to the other celestial spheres, and also place the earth among the heavenly bodies. Nor were these jokes invented recently. There is still extant Archimedes' book on \"The sand-reckoner\"; in which he reports that Aristarchus of Samos propounded the paradox that the sun stands still and the earth revolves around the sun. Even though subtle experts institute many investigations for the sake of exercising their ingenuity, nevertheless public proclamation of absurd opinions is indecent and sets a harmful example.\" Melanchthon went on to cite Bible passages and then declare \"Encouraged by this divine evidence, let us cherish the truth and let us not permit ourselves to be alienated from it by the tricks of those who deem it an intellectual honor to introduce confusion into the arts.\" In the first edition of \"Initia Doctrinae Physicae\", Melanchthon even questioned Copernicus's character claiming his motivation was \"either from love of novelty or from desire to appear clever\", these more personal attacks were largely removed by the second edition in 1550.\nAnother Protestant theologian who took issue with Copernicus was John Owen who declared that \"the late hypothesis, fixing the sun as in the centre of the world' was 'built on fallible phenomena, and advanced by many arbitrary presumptions against evident testimonies of Scripture.\"\n\nIn Roman Catholic circles, German Jesuit Nicolaus Serarius was one of the first to write against Copernicus's theory as heretical, citing the Joshua passage, in a work published in 1609–1610, and again in a book in 1612. In his 12 April 1615 letter to a Catholic defender of Copernicus, Paolo Antonio Foscarini, Catholic Cardinal Robert Bellarmine condemned Copernican theory, writing \"...not only the Holy Fathers, but also the modern commentaries on Genesis, the Psalms, Ecclesiastes, and Joshua, you will find all agreeing in the literal interpretation that the sun is in heaven and turns around the earth with great speed, and that the earth is very far from heaven and sits motionless at the center of the world...Nor can one answer that this is not a matter of faith, since if it is not a matter of faith 'as regards the topic,' it is a matter of faith 'as regards the speaker': and so it would be heretical to say that Abraham did not have two children and Jacob twelve, as well as to say that Christ was not born of a virgin, because both are said by the Holy Spirit through the mouth of prophets and apostles.\"\n\nPerhaps the most influential opponent of the Copernican theory was Francesco Ingoli, a Catholic priest. Ingoli wrote a January 1616 essay to Galileo presenting more than twenty arguments against the Copernican theory. Though \"it is not certain, it is probable that he [Ingoli] was commissioned by the Inquisition to write an expert opinion on the controversy\", (after the Congregation of the Index's decree against Copernicanism on 5 March 1616, Ingoli was officially appointed its consultant). Galileo himself was of the opinion that the essay played an important role in the rejection of the theory by church authorities, writing in a later letter to Ingoli that he was concerned that people thought the theory was rejected because Ingoli was right. Ingoli presented five physical arguments against the theory, thirteen mathematical arguments (plus a separate discussion of the sizes of stars), and four theological arguments. The physical and mathematical arguments were of uneven quality, but many of them came directly from the writings of Tycho Brahe, and Ingoli repeatedly cited Brahe, the leading astronomer of the era. These included arguments about the effect of a moving earth on the trajectory of projectiles, and about parallax and Brahe's argument that the Copernican theory required that stars be absurdly large. Two of Ingoli's theological issues with the Copernican theory were \"common Catholic beliefs not directly traceable to Scripture: the doctrine that hell is located at the center of Earth and is most distant from heaven; and the explicit assertion that Earth is motionless in a hymn sung on Tuesdays as part of the Liturgy of the Hours of the Divine Office prayers regularly recited by priests.\" Ingoli cited Robert Bellarmine in regards to both of these arguments, and may have been trying to convey to Galileo a sense of Bellarmine's opinion. Ingoli also cited Genesis 1:14 where God places \"lights in the firmament of the heavens to divide the day from the night.\" Ingoli did not think the central location of the sun in the Copernican theory was compatible with it being described as one of the lights placed in the firmament. Like previous commentators Ingoli also pointed to the passages about the Battle of Gibeon. He dismissed arguments that they should be taken metaphorically, saying \"Replies which assert that Scripture speaks according to our mode of understanding are not satisfactory: both because in explaining the Sacred Writings the rule is always to preserve the literal sense, when it is possible, as it is in this case; and also because all the [Church] Fathers unanimously take this passage to mean that the sun which was truly moving stopped at Joshua's request. An interpretation which is contrary to the unanimous consent of the Fathers is condemned by the Council of Trent, Session IV, in the decree on the edition and use of the Sacred Books. Furthermore, although the Council speaks about matters of faith and morals, nevertheless it cannot be denied that the Holy Fathers would be displeased with an interpretation of Sacred Scriptures which is contrary to their common agreement.\" However, Ingoli closed the essay by suggesting Galileo respond primarily to the better of his physical and mathematical arguments rather than to his theological arguments, writing \"Let it be your choice to respond to this either entirely of in part—clearly at least to the mathematical and physical arguments, and not to all even of these, but to the more weighty ones.\" When Galileo wrote a letter in reply to Ingoli years later, he in fact only addressed the mathematical and physical arguments.\n\nIn March 1616, in connection with the Galileo affair, the Roman Catholic Church's Congregation of the Index issued a decree suspending \"De revolutionibus\" until it could be \"corrected,\" on the grounds of ensuring that Copernicanism, which it described as a \"false Pythagorean doctrine, altogether contrary to the Holy Scripture,\" would not \"creep any further to the prejudice of Catholic truth.\" The corrections consisted largely of removing or altering wording that the spoke of heliocentrism as a fact, rather than a hypothesis. The corrections were made based largely on work by Ingoli.\n\nOn the orders of Pope Paul V, Cardinal Robert Bellarmine gave Galileo prior notice that the decree was about to be issued, and warned him that he could not \"hold or defend\" the Copernican doctrine. The corrections to \"De revolutionibus\", which omitted or altered nine sentences, were issued four years later, in 1620.\n\nIn 1633 Galileo Galilei was convicted of grave suspicion of heresy for \"following the position of Copernicus, which is contrary to the true sense and authority of Holy Scripture\", and was placed under house arrest for the rest of his life.\n\nAt the instance of Roger Boscovich, the Catholic Church's 1758 \"Index of Prohibited Books\" omitted the general prohibition of works defending heliocentrism, but retained the specific prohibitions of the original uncensored versions of \"De revolutionibus\" and Galileo's \"Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems\". Those prohibitions were finally dropped from the 1835 \"Index\".\nThere has been discussion of Copernicus' nationality and of whether it is meaningful to ascribe to him a nationality in the modern sense.\n\nNicolaus Copernicus was born and raised in Royal Prussia, a semiautonomous and polyglot region of the Kingdom of Poland. He was the child of German-speaking parents and grew up with German as his mother tongue. His first \"alma mater\" was the University of Kraków in Poland. When he later studied in Italy, at the University of Bologna, he joined the \"German Nation\", a student organization for German-speakers of all allegiances (Germany would not become a nation-state until 1871). His family stood against the Teutonic Order and actively supported the city of Toruń during the Thirteen Years' War (1454–66). Copernicus' father lent money to Poland's King Casimir IV Jagiellon to finance the war against the Teutonic Knights, but the inhabitants of Royal Prussia also resisted the Polish crown's efforts for greater control over the region.\n\n\"Encyclopædia Britannica\", \"Encyclopedia Americana\", \"The Concise Columbia Encyclopedia\", \"The Oxford World Encyclopedia\", and \"World Book Encyclopedia\" refer to Copernicus as a \"Polish astronomer\". Sheila Rabin, writing in the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", describes Copernicus as a \"child of a German family [who] was a subject of the Polish crown\", while Manfred Weissenbacher writes that Copernicus's father was a Germanized Pole.\nThere are additional arguments for Kopernik's Polish descent on his father's side. Kopernik's Y-DNA haplogroup, R1b L51, is found in southern Poland (in Silesia, where his father came from), but not in Germany or Austria. The surname \"Kopernik\" is typically Polish, with its suffix \"-nik\", indicating an occupation (e.g. \"cukiernik\", \"confectioner\", or \"górnik\", \"miner\"); while \"Koper-\" may refer to \"koprowina\", an old Polish term for the Latin \"cuprum\" (\"copper\"). The surname \"Kopernik\" is now found in Poland in 130 persons, and in Germany in only 22, mostly Polish immigrants to Germany. No Polish texts by Copernicus survive due to the rarity of Polish literary language before the writings of the Polish Renaissance poets Mikołaj Rej and Jan Kochanowski (educated Poles had generally written in Latin); but it is known that Copernicus knew Polish on a par with German and Latin.\n\nHistorian Michael Burleigh describes the nationality debate as a \"totally insignificant battle\" between German and Polish scholars during the interwar period. Polish astronomer Konrad Rudnicki calls the discussion a \"fierce scholarly quarrel in ... times of nationalism\" and describes Copernicus as an inhabitant of a German-speaking territory that belonged to Poland, himself being of mixed Polish-German extraction.\n\nCzesław Miłosz describes the debate as an \"absurd\" projection of a modern understanding of nationality onto Renaissance people, who identified with their home territories rather than with a nation. Similarly, historian Norman Davies writes that Copernicus, as was common in his era, was \"largely indifferent\" to nationality, being a local patriot who considered himself \"Prussian\". Miłosz and Davies both write that Copernicus had a German-language cultural background, while his working language was Latin in accord with the usage of the time. Additionally, according to Davies, \"there is ample evidence that he knew the Polish language\". Davies concludes that, \"Taking everything into consideration, there is good reason to regard him both as a German and as a Pole: and yet, in the sense that modern nationalists understand it, he was neither.\"\n\nCopernicia, a genus of palm trees native to South America and the Greater Antilles, was named after Copernicus in 1837. In some of the species, the leaves are coated with a thin layer of wax, known as carnauba wax.\n\nOn 14 July 2009, the discoverers, from the Gesellschaft für Schwerionenforschung in Darmstadt, Germany, of chemical element 112 (temporarily named ununbium) proposed to the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) that its permanent name be \"copernicium\" (symbol Cn). \"After we had named elements after our city and our state, we wanted to make a statement with a name that was known to everyone,\" said Hofmann. \"We didn't want to select someone who was a German. We were looking world-wide.\" On the 537th anniversary of his birthday the official naming was released to the public.\n\nIn July 2014 the International Astronomical Union launched a process for giving proper names to certain exoplanets and their host stars. The process involved public nomination and voting for the new names. In December 2015, the IAU announced the winning name for 55 Cancri A was Copernicus.\n\nCopernicus is honored, together with Johannes Kepler, in the liturgical calendar of the Episcopal Church (USA), with a feast day on 23 May.\n\nWrocław-Strachowice International Airport is named after Nicolaus Copernicus (Copernicus Airport Wrocław)\n\nContemporary literary and artistic works inspired by Copernicus\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1811755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1811755", "title": "Oliver Franks, Baron Franks", "text": "Oliver Franks, Baron Franks\n\nOliver Shewell Franks, Baron Franks (16 February 1905 – 15 October 1992) was an English civil servant and philosopher who has been described as 'one of the founders of the postwar world'.\n\nFranks was involved in Britain's recovery after the Second World War. Knighted in 1946, he was the British Ambassador to the United States of America from 1948 to 1952, during which time he strengthened the relationship between the two countries. He was given a life peerage on 10 May 1962.\n\nLord Franks was often called upon by the government of the day to chair important inquiries, and he is best known for his report in the aftermath of the Falklands War which ultimately exonerated the Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and her government from charges of having failed to heed warning signals of an Argentine invasion.\n\nFranks was educated at Bristol Grammar School and Queen's College, Oxford. He became an Oxford academic, and Provost of Worcester College. He was a moral philosopher by training, serving as Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Glasgow between 1936 and 1946.\n\nOliver Shewell Franks married Barbara Tanner in 1931. She gave birth to two daughters and died in 1987.\n\nAt the beginning of the war he was employed by the Ministry of Supply, where he rose to become Permanent Secretary by 1945. During the war he achieved fame by replacing the supplies after Dunkirk, and also replaced supplies from losses in the Battle of the Atlantic. After the war he became Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Supply, and was involved in a lecture entitled \"Central Planning and Control in War and Peace\".\n\nFranks was a Liberal and a great supporter of Clement Attlee. He was admired by Ernest Bevin. He had frequent conversations with Winston Churchill and Jawaharlal Nehru. After a spell as Provost of his \"alma mater\", Queen's College (1946-8), he was summoned by Bevin in 1947 to head the British delegation at the European discussions about George Marshall's proposals of aid. He helped found NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organisation), and became chairman of the Organisation for European Economic Cooperation. He also had the dubious distinction of having on his staff at various times Kim Philby, Guy Burgess and Donald Duart Maclean.\n\nHe was made ambassador to the United States in 1948. According to an urban legend there was one minor embarrassment early in his term. In 1948, a Washington radio station contacted ambassadors in the US capital, asking what each most wished for Christmas. The French ambassador said he would like to see peace throughout the world. The Russian ambassador wanted freedom for all people enslaved by imperialism. Sir Oliver Franks mistook the request, saying: \"Well, it’s very kind of you to ask. I’d quite like a box of crystallised fruit.\"\n\nWhen he returned to England from Washington he took up the post of Chairman of Lloyds Bank which he held only from 1954 to 1962, although he remained a director until 1975. Between 1960 and 1962 he was also chairman of Friends Provident. He was a member of the Steering Committee of the Bilderberg Group.\n\nFranks presented the BBC Reith Lectures in 1954. In his series of six broadcasts, titled \"Britain and the Tide of World Affairs\", he explored the state of postwar politics, and considered Britain's changing political relationships with the rest of the world. In 1960 he came a close second to Harold Macmillan in the election of the Chancellor of Oxford University. There were 1,697 votes for Macmillan, and 1,607 votes for Franks. He was the chairman of a Commission of Inquiry at the University of Oxford in 1964-65. Between 1965 and 1984 he was the Chancellor of the University of East Anglia.\n\nAged 77, in 1982 he conducted an enquiry into the events leading to the Falklands War. He was Chairman of the Board of Governors, of the United Oxford Hospitals, and of the Wellcome Trust, and of the Committee on Ministerial Affairs, of the Honours Scrutiny Committee, the President Kennedy Memorial Committee, the Rhodes Trust and the Rockefeller Foundation. Franks died aged 87.\n\nFranks received the following honours and appointments:\n\n"}
{"id": "322492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322492", "title": "Omertà", "text": "Omertà\n\nOmertà () is a Southern Italian code of honor and code of silence that places importance on silence in the face of questioning by authorities or outsiders; non-cooperation with authorities, the government, or outsiders; and willfully ignoring and generally avoiding interference with the illegal activities of others (i.e not contacting law enforcement or the authorities when one is aware of, witness to, or even the victim of certain crimes). It originated and remains common in Southern Italy, where banditry or brigandage and Mafia-type criminal organizations (like the Camorra, Cosa Nostra, 'Ndrangheta and Sacra Corona Unita) are strong. Similar codes are also deeply rooted in other areas of the Mediterranean, including rural Spain, Crete (Greece), and Corsica, all of which share a common or similar historic culture with Southern Italy.\n\nIt also exists, to a lesser extent, in certain Italian-American neighborhoods, especially in neighborhoods where the Italian-American Mafia has strong influence, as well as in Italian ethnic enclaves in countries such as Germany, Canada, and Australia, where Italian organized crime exists. Similar codes of silence have been observed in Jewish-American, African-American, Hispanic, and certain working class Irish-American neighborhoods. Retaliation against informers is common in criminal circles, where informers are known as \"rats\" or \"snitches\".\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary traces the word to the Spanish word , meaning \"manliness\", modified after the Sicilian word \"omu\" for man. According to a different theory, the word comes from Latin (humility), which became \"umirtà\" and then finally \"omertà\" in some southern Italian dialects.\n\nThe basic principle of \"omertà\" is that it is not \"manly\" to seek aid from legally constituted authorities to settle personal grievances. The suspicion of being a (an informant) constitutes the blackest mark against manhood, according to Cutrera. An individual who has been wronged is obligated to look out for his own interests by avenging that wrong himself or finding a patron but not the state to do the job.\n\nOmertà implies \"the categorical prohibition of cooperation with state authorities or reliance on its services, even when one has been victim of a crime.\" A person should absolutely avoid interfering in the business of others and should not inform the authorities of a crime under any circumstances, but if it is justified, he may personally avenge a physical attack on himself or on his family by vendetta, literally a taking of revenge, a feud. Even if somebody is convicted of a crime that he has not committed, he is supposed to serve the sentence without giving the police any information about the real criminal, even if the criminal has nothing to do with the Mafia. Within Mafia culture, breaking \"omertà\" is punishable by death.\n\n\"Omertà\" is an extreme form of loyalty and solidarity in the face of authority. One of its absolute tenets is that it is deeply demeaning and shameful to betray even one's deadliest enemy to the authorities. For that reason, many Mafia-related crimes go unsolved. Observers of the Mafia debate whether omertà should best be understood as an expression of social consensus for the Mafia or whether it is instead a pragmatic response based primarily on fear, as implied by a popular Sicilian proverb \"Cu è surdu, orbu e taci, campa cent'anni 'mpaci\" (\"He who is deaf, blind and silent will live a hundred years in peace\").\n\nIt has also been described as follows: \"Whoever appeals to the law against his fellow man is either a fool or a coward. Whoever cannot take care of himself without police protection is both. It is as cowardly to betray an offender to justice, even though his offences be against yourself, as it is not to avenge an injury by violence. It is dastardly and contemptible in a wounded man to betray the name of his assailant, because if he recovers, he must naturally expect to take vengeance himself.\"\n\nOmertà is a code of silence, according to one of the first Mafia researchers Antonio Cutrera, a former officer of public security. It seals lips of men even in their own defense and even when the accused is innocent of charged crimes. Cutrera quoted a native saying which was first uttered (as goes the legend) by a wounded man to his assailant: \"If I live, I'll kill you. If I die, I forgive you.\"\n\nSicilians adopted the code long before the emergence of Cosa Nostra, and it may have been heavily influenced by centuries of state oppression and foreign colonisation. It has been observed at least as far back as the 16th century as a way of opposing Spanish rule.\n\nThe Italian-American mafioso Joe Valachi famously broke the \"omertà\" code in 1963, when he publicly spoke out about the existence of the Mafia and testified before a US Senate committee. He became the first in the modern history of the Italian-American Mafia to break his blood oath. In Sicily, the phenomenon of pentito (Italian \"he who has repented\") broke omertà.\n\nAmong the most famous Mafia \"pentiti\" is Tommaso Buscetta, the first important witness in Italy, who both helped prosecutor Giovanni Falcone to understand the inner workings of Cosa Nostra and described the Sicilian Mafia Commission or \"Cupola\", the leadership of the Sicilian Mafia. A predecessor, Leonardo Vitale, who gave himself up to the police in 1973, was judged mentally ill and so his testimony led to the conviction of only himself and his uncle.\n\nMario Puzo wrote novels based on the principles of Omertà and the Cosa Nostra. His best known works in that vein are the trilogy \"The Godfather\", \"The Sicilian\", and \"Omertà\". The final book of the series, \"Omertà\", was finished before his death but published posthumously in 2000 from his manuscript.\n\n"}
{"id": "590177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=590177", "title": "Ordinary language philosophy", "text": "Ordinary language philosophy\n\nOrdinary language philosophy is a philosophical methodology that sees traditional philosophical problems as rooted in misunderstandings philosophers develop by distorting or forgetting what words actually mean in everyday use. \"Such 'philosophical' uses of language, on this view, create the very philosophical problems they are employed to solve.\" Ordinary language philosophy is a branch of linguistic philosophy closely related to logical positivism.\n\nThis approach typically involves eschewing philosophical \"theories\" in favor of close attention to the details of the use of everyday \"ordinary\" language. It is sometimes associated with the later work of Ludwig Wittgenstein and a number of mid-20th century philosophers that can be split into two main groups, neither of which could be described as an organized \"school\". In its earlier stages contemporaries of Wittgenstein at Cambridge University such as Norman Malcolm, Alice Ambrose, Friedrich Waismann, Oets Kolk Bouwsma and Morris Lazerowitz started to develop ideas recognisable as ordinary language philosophy. These ideas were further elaborated from 1945 onwards through the work of some Oxford University philosophers led initially by Gilbert Ryle, then followed by J. L. Austin. This Oxford group also included H. L. A. Hart, Geoffrey Warnock, J. O. Urmson and Peter Strawson. The close association between ordinary language philosophy and these later thinkers has led to it sometimes being referred to as \"Oxford philosophy\". More recent philosophers with at least some commitment to the method of ordinary language philosophy include Stanley Cavell, John Searle and Oswald Hanfling.\n\nThe later Wittgenstein held that the meanings of words reside in their ordinary uses and that this is why philosophers trip over words taken in abstraction. From this came the idea that philosophy had gotten into trouble by trying to use words outside of the context of their use in ordinary language. For example, \"understanding\" is what you mean when you say \"I understand\". \"Knowledge\" is what you mean when you say \"I know that\". The point is, you \"already know\" what \"understanding\" or \"knowledge\" are, at least implicitly. Philosophers are ill-advised to construct new definitions for these terms, because this is necessarily a \"re\"definition, and the argument may unravel into self-referential nonsense. Rather, philosophers must explore the definitions that these terms already have, without forcing a convenient redefinition onto them. \n\nThe controversy really begins when ordinary language philosophers apply the same leveling tendency to questions such as \"What is Truth?\" or \"What is Consciousness?\" Philosophers in this school would insist that we cannot assume that (for example) 'Truth' 'is' a 'thing' (in the same sense that tables and chairs are 'things'), which the word 'truth' represents. Instead, we must look at the differing ways in which the words 'truth' and 'conscious' actually function in ordinary language. We may well discover, after investigation, that there is no single entity to which the word 'truth' corresponds, something Wittgenstein attempts to get across via his concept of a 'family resemblance' (cf. \"Philosophical Investigations\"). Therefore, ordinary language philosophers tend to be anti-essentialist.\n\nAnti-essentialism and the linguistic philosophy associated with it are often important to contemporary accounts of feminism, Marxism, and other social philosophies that are critical of the injustice of the status quo. The essentialist 'Truth' as 'thing' is argued to be closely related to projects of domination, where the denial of alternate truths is understood to be a denial of alternate forms of living. Similar arguments sometimes involve ordinary language philosophy with other anti-essentialist movements like post-structuralism. However, strictly speaking, this is not a position derived from Wittgenstein, as it still involves 'misuse' (ungrammatical use) of the term \"truth\" in reference to \"alternate truths\".\n\nEarly analytic philosophy had a less positive view of ordinary language. Bertrand Russell tended to dismiss language as being of little philosophical significance, and ordinary language as just being too confused to help solve metaphysical and epistemological problems. Frege, the Vienna Circle (especially Rudolf Carnap), the young Wittgenstein, and W.V. Quine, all attempted to improve upon it, in particular using the resources of modern logic. Wittgenstein's view in the \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\" more or less agreed with Russell's that language ought to be reformulated so as to be unambiguous, so as to accurately represent the world, so that we could better deal with the questions of philosophy.\n\nBy contrast, Wittgenstein would later describe his task as bringing \"words back from their metaphysical to their everyday use\". The sea-change brought on by his unpublished work in the 1930s centered largely on the idea that there is nothing \"wrong\" with ordinary language as it stands, and that many traditional philosophical problems were only illusions brought on by misunderstandings about language and related subjects. The former idea led to rejecting the approaches of earlier analytic philosophy – arguably, of any earlier philosophy – and the latter led to replacing them with the careful attention to language in its normal use, in order to \"dissolve\" the appearance of philosophical problems, rather than attempt to solve them. At its inception, ordinary language philosophy (also called linguistic philosophy) had been taken as either an extension of or as an alternative to analytic philosophy. Now that the term \"analytic philosophy\" has a more standardized meaning, ordinary language philosophy is viewed as a stage of the analytic tradition that followed logical positivism and that preceded the yet-to-be-named stage analytic philosophy continues in today. According to Preston, analytic philosophy is now in a fifth, eclectic or pluralistic, phase he calls 'post-linguistic analytic philosophy' that tends to 'emphasize precision and thoroughness about a narrow topic, and to deemphasize the imprecise or cavalier discussion of broad topics'.\n\nOrdinary language analysis largely flourished and developed at Oxford in the 1940s, under Austin and Gilbert Ryle, and was quite widespread for a time before declining rapidly in popularity in the late 1960s and early 1970s. It is now not uncommon to hear that Ordinary Language philosophy is no longer an active force. Wittgenstein is perhaps the only one among the major figures of linguistic philosophy to retain anything like the reputation he had at that time. On the other hand, the attention to language remains one of the most important techniques in contemporary analytic thought, and many of the effects of ordinary language philosophy can still be felt across many academic disciplines.\n\nOne of the most ardent critics of ordinary language philosophy was a student at Oxford, Ernest Gellner who said:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25292018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25292018", "title": "Pieta prayer booklet", "text": "Pieta prayer booklet\n\nThe Pieta prayer booklet is a book of Roman Catholic prayers. The prayers in this collection date back to the 18th century. \n\nMost of the prayers were first published in Toulouse, France in 1740 and over time gathered a strong following. Pope Pius IX learned of them almost a century later, and approved them in 1862.\n"}
{"id": "54004163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54004163", "title": "Qingliang Wenyi", "text": "Qingliang Wenyi\n\nQingliang Wenyi(), also known as Fayan Wenyi() is a Chinese Buddhist monk in the early 10th century. Wenyi was born in Yuhang.His secular surname is Lu. Fayan school, One of the main philosophical schools of Zen Buddhism was created by him.\n\nWenyi became a Buddhist monk by the age of 7. His first tutor was Quanwei Chanbo. He followed monk Xijue to the Ashoka temple of Mingzhou where Xijue and Wenyi preached. He then traveled to the southern city of Fuzhou in search of the solution of his doubts on the subject of Zen. In Fuzhou, Wenyi's knowledge gained him much popularity. However, he was not content with himself and thought that he had not detached himself from the secular world. His departure from Fuzhou eventually led him to Linchuan. The tradition of Zen Buddhism holds that it was during this particular trip, Wenyi acquired great insight(). Knowing that Wenyi is an accomplished Zen philosopher, the king of Nan Tang which ruled over the Linchuan region appointed a temple under his guidance. He would remain in the kingdom of Nan Tang for the rest of his life, promulgating the way of Zen. Wenyi died in the year of 958. The King of Nan Tang ordered his royal subjects to wear white clothes for the mourning of Wenyi's death. A pagoda was built in Danyang in honor of Wenyi's spiritual accomplishments . His posthumous title \"Zen master Dafayan\"(大法眼禪師) was then granted.\n\nWenyi is sometimes referred as Fayan Wenyi for his status as the founder of Fayan school of Zen. The Fayan school was listed as one of the five major schools of Zen Buddhism. Some of his pupils such as Tiantai Deshao, the patriarch of the Kingdom of Wuyue, Wensui, the Patriarch of Jiangnan, and Huiju, Patriarch of Korea made major contributions to the promotion of Zen Buddhism in different regions of China and Korea.\n"}
{"id": "44778594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44778594", "title": "Rempo Niwa Zenji", "text": "Rempo Niwa Zenji\n\nZuigaku Rempo Niwa Zenji (1905–1993) was a Japanese Zen master.\n\nRempo Zenji was born in Shizuoka, Japan. His father was a schoolmaster and his mother was a farmer. After graduating from Tokyo University, he became the head official in Tokei-in and later studied at Antai-ji. At the age of 50, Niwa became the 77th abbot of the Eihei-ji monastery. He also received the imperial title of Jikô Enkai Zenji (“Great Zen Master of Compassion, Ocean of Plenitude”). \n\nAn avid practitioner of zazen, he rebuilt the zendo (meditation hall) so that the young people in training could better engage in this essential practice. His dharma heirs include Gudō Wafu Nishijima and Moriyama Daigyo as well as several teachers affiliated with the Taisen Deshimaru Lineage in Europe. Zenji (literally, \"Zen Master\") is an honorary title given to the senior Eihei temple (Eihei-ji), headquarters of the Sōtō school, founded in the thirteenth century by Master Dogen.\n\nOutside of Zen, he created brush calligraphy. His work was often credited to various pseudonyms. Niwa died in 1993.\n"}
{"id": "35622641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35622641", "title": "Salimiyya", "text": "Salimiyya\n\nSalimiyya () was a Sufi movement in Basra, named after Muhammad ibn Ahmad ibn Salim (d. 297/909) and his son Ahmad (d. 356/967). They believed that the individual letters and sounds of the Qur'an are eternal.\n\nFollowers of the movement are known as Salimis.\n"}
{"id": "21569266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21569266", "title": "Sarye pyeollam", "text": "Sarye pyeollam\n\nSarye pyeollam is a kind of practical guide written by Korean scholar Yi Jae (李縡 1680 ∼ 1746) of the Joseon Dynasty, which that records and describes important rites and ceremonies based on Neo-Confucianism. The title is translated into \"Easy Manual of the Four Rites\" or \"Convenient Reference to the Four Rites\". It consists of 8 volumes in 4 books and was published in 1844 by his descendant, Yi Gwang-jeong (李光正).\n\n"}
{"id": "26810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26810", "title": "Skepticism", "text": "Skepticism\n\nSkepticism (American English) or scepticism (British English, Australian English, and Canadian English) is generally any questioning attitude or doubt towards one or more items of putative knowledge or belief. It is often directed at domains, such as the supernatural, morality (moral skepticism), religion (skepticism about the existence of God), or knowledge (skepticism about the possibility of knowledge, or of certainty). Formally, skepticism as a topic occurs in the context of philosophy, particularly epistemology, although it can be applied to any topic such as politics, religion, and pseudoscience.\n\nPhilosophical skepticism comes in various forms. Radical forms of skepticism deny that knowledge or rational belief is possible and urge us to suspend judgment on many or all controversial matters. More moderate forms of skepticism claim only that nothing can be known with certainty, or that we can know little or nothing about the \"big questions\" in life, such as whether God exists or whether there is an afterlife. Religious skepticism is \"doubt concerning basic religious principles (such as immortality, providence, and revelation)\". Scientific skepticism concerns testing beliefs for reliability, by subjecting them to systematic investigation using the scientific method, to discover empirical evidence for them.\n\nIn ordinary usage, skepticism (US) or scepticism (UK) (Greek: 'σκέπτομαι' \"skeptomai\", to search, to think about or look for; see also spelling differences) can refer to:\n\n\nIn philosophy, skepticism can refer to:\n\nAs a philosophical school or movement, skepticism originated in ancient Greece. A number of Greek Sophists held skeptical views. Gorgias, for example, reputedly argued that nothing exists, that even if there were something we couldn’t know it, and that even if we could know it we could not communicate it. Another Sophist, Cratylus, refused to discuss anything and would merely wriggle his finger, claiming that communication is impossible since meanings are constantly changing. The Sophists’ leading critic, Socrates, also had skeptical tendencies, claiming that he knew nothing, or at least nothing worthwhile.\n\nThere were two major schools of skepticism in the ancient Greek and Roman world. One was Pyrrhonian skepticism, which was founded by Pyrrho of Elis (c. 360–270 BCE). The other was Academic skepticism, so-called because its two leading defenders, Arcesilaus (c. 315–240 BCE) and Carneades (c. 217–128 BCE) were Heads of Plato’s Academy. Both schools of skepticism denied that knowledge is possible and urged suspension of judgment (\"epoche\") for the sake of mental tranquility (\"ataraxia\"). The major difference between the schools seems to have been that Academic skeptics claimed that some beliefs are more reasonable or probable than others, whereas Pyrrhonian skeptics argued that equally compelling arguments can be given for or against any disputed view. Nearly all the writings of the ancient skeptics are now lost. Most of what we know about ancient skepticism is due to Sextus Empiricus, a Pyrrhonian skeptic who lived in the second or third century A.D. His major work, \"Outlines of Pyrrhonism\", contains a lucid summary of stock skeptical arguments.\n\nAncient skepticism faded out during the late Roman Empire, particularly after Augustine (354–430 CE) attacked the skeptics in his work \"Against the Academics\" (386 CE). There was little knowledge of, or interest in, ancient skepticism in Christian Europe during the Middle Ages. Interest revived during the Renaissance and Reformation, particularly after the complete writings of Sextus Empiricus were translated into Latin in 1569. A number of Catholic writers, including Francisco Sanches (c. 1550–1623), Michel de Montaigne (1533–1592), Pierre Gassendi (1592–1655), and Marin Mersenne (1588–1648) deployed ancient skeptical arguments to defend moderate forms of skepticism and to argue that faith, rather than reason, must be the primary guide to truth. Similar arguments were offered later (perhaps ironically) by the Protestant thinker Pierre Bayle in his influential Historical and Critical Dictionary (1697–1702).\n\nThe growing popularity of skeptical views created an intellectual crisis in seventeenth-century Europe. One major response was offered by the French philosopher and mathematician René Descartes (1596–1650). In his classic work, \"Meditations of First Philosophy\" (1641), Descartes sought to refute skepticism, but only after he had formulated the case for skepticism as powerfully as possible. Descartes argued that no matter what radical skeptical possibilities we imagine there are certain truths (e.g., that thinking is occurring, or that I exist) that are absolutely certain. Thus, the ancient skeptics were wrong to claim that knowledge is impossible. Descartes also attempted to refute skeptical doubts about the reliability of our senses, our memory, and other cognitive faculties. To do this, Descartes tried to prove that God exists and that God would not allow us to be systematically deceived about the nature of reality. Many contemporary philosophers question whether this second stage of Descartes’ critique of skepticism is successful.\n\nIn the eighteenth century a powerful new case for skepticism was offered by the Scottish philosopher David Hume (1711–1776). Hume was an empiricist, claiming that all genuine ideas can be traced back to original impressions of sensation or introspective consciousness. Hume argued forcefully that on empiricist grounds there are no sound reasons for belief in God, an enduring self or soul, an external world, causal necessity, objective morality, or inductive reasoning. In fact, he argued that “Philosophy would render us entirely Pyrrhonian, were not Nature too strong for it.” As Hume saw it, the real basis of human belief is not reason, but custom or habit. We are hard-wired by nature to trust, say, our memories or inductive reasoning, and no skeptical arguments, however powerful, can dislodge those beliefs. In this way, Hume embraced what he called a “mitigated” skepticism, while rejecting an “excessive” Pyrrhonian skepticism that he saw as both impractical and psychologically impossible.\n\nHume’s skepticism provoked a number of important responses. Hume’s Scottish contemporary, Thomas Reid (1710–1796), challenged Hume’s strict empiricism and argued that it is rational to accept “common-sense” beliefs such as the basic reliability of our senses, our reason, our memories, and inductive reasoning, even though none of these things can be proved. In Reid’s view, such common-sense beliefs are foundational and require no proof in order to be rationally justified. Not long after Hume’s death, the great German philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724–1804) argued that human moral awareness makes no sense unless we reject Hume’s skeptical conclusions about the existence of God, the soul, free will, and an afterlife. According to Kant, while Hume was right to claim that we cannot strictly \"know\" any of these things, our moral experience entitles us to believe in them.\n\nToday, skepticism continues to be a topic of lively debate among philosophers.\n\nReligious skepticism generally refers to doubting given religious beliefs or claims. Historically, religious skepticism can be traced back to Socrates, who doubted many religious claims of the time. Modern religious skepticism typically emphasizes scientific and historical methods or evidence, with Michael Shermer writing that skepticism is a process for discovering the truth rather than general non-acceptance. For example, a religious skeptic might believe that Jesus existed while questioning claims that he was the messiah or performed miracles (see historicity of Jesus). Religious skepticism is not the same as atheism or agnosticism, though these often do involve skeptical attitudes toward religion and philosophical theology (for example, towards divine omnipotence). Religious people are generally skeptical about claims of other religions, at least when the two denominations conflict concerning some stated belief. Additionally, they may also be skeptical of the claims made by atheists. The historian Will Durant writes that Plato was \"as skeptical of atheism as of any other dogma.\"\n\nA scientific or empirical skeptic is one who questions beliefs on the basis of scientific understanding.\n\nScientific skepticism may discard beliefs pertaining to \"purported phenomena\" not subject to reliable observation and thus not systematic or testable empirically. Most scientists, being scientific skeptics, test the reliability of certain kinds of claims by subjecting them to a systematic investigation using some type of the scientific method. As a result, a number of claims are considered as \"pseudoscience\", if they are found to improperly apply or ignore the fundamental aspects of the scientific method.\n\nProfessional skepticism is an important concept in auditing. It requires an auditor to have a \"questioning mind,\" to make a critical assessment of evidence, and to consider the sufficiency of the evidence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4021589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4021589", "title": "The Philosophy of Freedom", "text": "The Philosophy of Freedom\n\nThe Philosophy of Freedom is the fundamental philosophical work of the philosopher and esotericist Rudolf Steiner (1861–1925). It addresses the questions whether and in what sense human beings can be said to be free.\n\nPart One of \"The Philosophy of Freedom\" examines the basis for freedom in human thinking, gives an account of the relationship between knowledge and perception, and explores the role and reliability of thinking as a means to knowledge. In Part Two Steiner analyzes the conditions necessary for human beings to be free, and develops a moral philosophy that he describes as \"ethical individualism\". The book's subtitle, \"Some results of introspective observation following the methods of natural science\", indicates the philosophical method Steiner intends to follow.\n\nOriginally published in 1894 in German as \"Die Philosophie der Freiheit\", with a second edition published in 1918, the work has appeared under a number of English titles, including \"The Philosophy of Spiritual Activity\" (the title Steiner proposed for the English-language translation), \"The Philosophy of Freedom\", and \"Intuitive Thinking as a Spiritual Path\".\n\nSteiner had wanted to write a philosophy of freedom since at least 1880. The appearance of \"The Philosophy of Freedom\" in 1894 was preceded by his publications on Goethe, focusing on epistemology and the philosophy of science, particularly \"Goethe the Scientist\" (1883) and \"The Theory of Knowledge Implicit in Goethe's World Conception\" (1886). In 1891, Steiner presented his doctoral dissertation, an epistemological study that includes discussion of Kant's and Fichte's theories of knowledge. A revised version of the thesis was published a year later in book form as \"Truth and Knowledge: Introduction to a Philosophy of Freedom\"., dedicated to Eduard von Hartmann. In the Preface to \"The Philosophy of Freedom\" itself, Steiner described the aim of the book: knowledge should become \"organically alive\". \"All real philosophers have been \"artists in the realm of concepts\". For them, human ideas were their artists' materials and scientific method their artistic technique.\"\n\nWhile a student in Vienna, Steiner attended some of the lectures of Franz Brentano, an important precursor of the phenomenological movement in philosophy (see School of Brentano). Like the later phenomenologists, Steiner was seeking a way to solve the subject–object problem. Steiner's approach to freedom was also in part inspired by Schiller's \"On the Aesthetic Education of Man\" and a response to the scientific works of Goethe, whom Steiner believed had not focused sufficiently on the role of thinking in developing inner freedom.\n\nSteiner was also deeply affected as a young man by Kant's argument in the Critique of Pure Reason that we cannot know things as they are in themselves, and he devotes a long chapter of \"The Philosophy of Freedom\", \"Are there Limits to Knowledge?\", to a refutation of this view, arguing that there are in principle no limits to knowledge. This claim is important to freedom, because for Steiner freedom involves knowing the real basis of our actions. If this basis cannot be known, then freedom is not possible. Steiner's argument in favour of freedom also responds to determinists such as Spinoza, for whom human action is just as much determined as anything else in the necessity that governs nature as a whole.\n\nOther philosophers discussed or mentioned in \"The Philosophy of Freedom\" include George Berkeley, Pierre Jean George Cabanis, Descartes, Ernst Haeckel, Robert Hamerling, von Hartmann, Hegel, David Hume, Johannes Kreyenbuehl, Otto Liebmann, Friedrich Paulsen, Paul Rée, Johannes Rehmke, Schelling, Schopenhauer, Herbert Spencer, and David Strauss.\n\nThe parts of the two-fold structure of \"The Philosophy of Freedom\" resemble the elements of Hegel's description of freedom: \"Ethical life is the \"Idea of freedom\" as the living good which has its knowledge and volition in self-consciousness, and its actuality through self-conscious action\", but Steiner differs from Hegel in an essential way: Steiner finds the \"activity\" of thinking to be something much greater and more real than the concepts which crystallize out of thinking.\n\nSteiner seeks to demonstrate that we can achieve a true picture of reality only by uniting perception, which reflects only the outer appearance of the world, and conception, which together give us access to the world's inner nature. His conception of freedom is that it arises when we are able to bridge the gap between our ideals and the constraints of external reality, letting our external deeds be inspired by \"moral imagination\".\n\nSteiner begins exploring the nature of human freedom by accepting \"that an action, of which the agent does not know why he performs it, cannot be free,\" but asking what happens when a person becomes conscious of his or her motives for acting. He proposes (1) that through introspective observation we can become conscious of the motivations of our actions, and (2) that the sole possibility of human freedom, if it exists at all, must be sought in an awareness of the motives of our actions.\n\nIn Chapter 2, \"The Fundamental Desire for Knowledge,\" Steiner discusses how an awareness of the division between mind, or subject, and world, or object, gives rise to a desire to reestablish a unity between these poles. After criticizing solutions to this problem provided by dualism in the philosophy of mind and several forms of monism as one-sided, Steiner suggests that only by locating nature's manifestations within our subjective nature can we overcome this division.\n\nIn Chapter 3, \"Thinking in the Service of Knowledge,\" Steiner observes that when confronted with percepts, we feel obliged to think about and add concepts to these: to observation we add thinking. Steiner seeks to demonstrate that what he considers the primary antithesis between observation and thinking underlies all other related antitheses and philosophical distinctions, such as subject vs. object, appearance vs. reality, and so on. For most objects of observation, he points out, we cannot observe both the percept and our thinking about this percept simultaneously, for a tree and thinking about a tree are fundamentally different; we can only attend to one at a time. In contrast, we can simultaneously observe thinking and observe our thoughts about thinking, for here the percept (thinking) and our thinking about the percept consist of the same element (thought): \"Just thinking and thinking about thinking are the same process; observing the latter, we are simultaneously observing the former.\"\n\nNormally, however, for just that reason we do not pay attention to the process of thinking, only its results, the thoughts themselves: \"The first observation which we make about thinking is therefore this: that it is the unobserved element in our ordinary mental and spiritual life\". Steiner connects this \"first observation\" to the fact that thinking is entirely due to our own activity. It does not appear before us unless we ourselves produce it. Nevertheless, when I apprehend the content of thinking, a concept, this is self-justifying, in the sense that it can be asked why I feel this or that way about something, but not why it produces in me this or that concept. Such a question would be \"simply meaningless\". Their contents justify the relations of concepts to one another.\n\nFurthermore, when observing my thinking, it is always a past instance of thinking that I observe, not a present one. That the thinker and the observer of the thinker are one and the same explains why I can know thinking \"more intimately and immediately than any other process in the world\" This is what Steiner calls the transparency of our thinking process. To appreciate this point, we must be able to adapt to our own thinking the \"exceptional\" procedure mentioned above: we must apply it to itself. If we are unable to do this, and we think of thinking as a brain-process, it is because we do not \"see\" thinking, because we are unable to take up the exceptional position needed to do so.\n\nSteiner takes Descartes' dictum, \"I think, therefore I am,\" to signify the truth that \"I am certain . . . that [thinking] exists in the sense that I myself bring it forth,\" However, Steiner advances the objection (common to many others, beginning in Descartes' own time), that the further claim that \"I am\" is more problematic.\n\nSteiner's full view is found in the following passage.\n\nThe Chapter on thinking is followed by a shorter one on perception, Chapter 4. It contains two main and very important points. Steiner points out the inconsistency of treating all our perceptions as mere subjective mental images inside the brain. If that were true, the perception of the brain itself would have to be a mere subjective mental image inside the brain! In that case the basis for our knowledge of the brain would be completely undermined. The scientific claim is made, on the basis of physiology and psychology, that our percepts are produced by a causal process within the organism and hence are subjective. This is called \"critical idealism\" But physiology and psychology are based on these percepts. So our knowledge of physiology and psychology is subjective. But then it cannot validate the claim that percepts are subjective. Furthermore, critical idealism leaves unaccounted for the passage from the brain process to the sensation.\n\nWhat are the consequences of such a view of perception for the concept of knowledge? In Chapter 5 Steiner presents his concept of knowledge. Human beings are two-sided, as they both think and also perceive. The two activities together give a complete view of the world. Knowledge is the union of what is produced in thinking, the concept, and what is produced in perceiving, the percept. Steiner argues that there can be no relationship among the objects of perception other than what is revealed in the ideal element produced by thinking, the concept. Accordingly, the relation between some perceived object and ourselves is also an ideal one.\n\nAn important passage analyzes the view that we cannot experience the world itself but only subjective images somewhere inside the brain, or in the soul inside the brain. This view is based on treating the perceptual relationship between self and world as other than ideal, as naively real, just as we perceive it, as a process derived in its content from perception itself.\n\nAt the end of Chapter 5 Steiner completes the view of perception begun in Chapter 4. What is the percept that perceiving produces? Steiner rejects this question. 'The question asked in this way is absurd.' For a percept is the determinate content of the perception, and its \"what?\" - what it is - can only refer to this content.\n\nWe can become conscious of our thought processes in a way that we cannot be of our feelings, will or sense perceptions. We know that what we experience in thinking is exactly what it seems, so that appearance and reality become one. By contrast, our feelings' meaning is not directly apparent, while we only perceive the meaning of a percept after some form of conceptual framework has been brought to bear (for example, we give the right spatial meaning to the visually converging lines of railroad tracks through our understanding of perspective). Mathematics is an example of thinking in which thought itself forms the perceptions; no sense-perceptions are needed to form a basis for mathematical principles. In this sense mathematics could be said to be one discipline that studies the inner aspect of reality.\n\nSteiner proposes that the apparent dualism of experience can be overcome by discovering the inner and initially hidden unity of perception and thinking. By observing a thinking process sufficiently intensively, perceiving and thinking can begin to unify. This is knowledge. By the same token, a clear-eyed study of what is revealed in observation can lead to appropriate concepts - thinking.\n\nSteiner argues that thinking is more pervasive in our ordinary perceiving than we often recognize. If, for example, we had not as infants learned, unconsciously, to think with our eyes and limbs, then our eyes, even if functioning perfectly in a physical sense, would see only something like what the philosopher William James referred to as a \"blooming buzzing confusion,” or what Steiner referred to as a highly chaotic stage of the “given.” We would not perceive spatial or temporal structure or recognize distinct qualities. If that conclusion seems surprising, that is because the thinking-in-perceiving learned in childhood becomes habitual and automatic long before we attain fully consciousness, so we rarely become aware of the key role cognition plays in even the simplest perceptions. Similarly, we are unconscious of the ways we perceive our thinking.\n\n'Our next task must be to define the concept of \"mental picture\" more closely', Steiner writes at the end of the Chapter 6. With this concept we arrive at the relation of knowledge to the individual, and to life, and feeling. After an interesting refutation of the subjectivity of percepts, Steiner describes a mental picture as an intuition or thought related to an individual percept. And so the mental picture is defined as an individualized concept.\n\nExperience is the \"sum total\" of mental pictures of the individual. But there is more to the human being's cognitive inventory than percept, concept and mental picture. There is the relation of these things to the Ego; and this is feeling. Feeling gives our personal relation to the world, and we oscillate between it and the \"universal world process\" given in thinking. The mental pictures we form gives our mental life an individual stamp, and relates it to our own life.\n\nChapter 7 takes up the consequences of the view that knowledge consists of the restoration of the unity of the content of the percept and the concept. Steiner calls those who make the epistemological distinction into a permanent metaphysical one dualists. For the monist ‘The world is given to us as a duality, and knowledge transforms it into a unity.' Working with an irresolvable distinction, the dualist is bound to assert that there are limits to knowledge: ‘the “in itself” of a thing.’ For the monist there is no in-principle limit to knowledge. \nFor monism in Steiner’s sense there are only concepts and percepts, which, united, form the object; for the dualist there is the subject, the object, the percept, and the concept. We must not conceive of the process of perception as though it is naïvely real, as we do when we take perception to be a causal effect of the things as they are in themselves on us. Metaphysical realism is the view that there is an object in the world that is imperceptible as it is in itself, but is also to be conceived naïve realistically. It 'is a contradictory mixture of naïve realism and idealism. Its hypothetical [elements] are imperceptible entities endowed with the qualities of percepts’. For the monist, the process of perception is an ideal relation. The metaphysical realist, however, is left with the unanswerable question how the metaphysically real objects are converted into subjective percepts. Here Steiner can be read as giving his account of the structure and basis of what is today called the mind-body problem.\n\nSteiner's summary of Part I of \"The Philosophy of Freedom\", at the start of Chapter 8 in Part II, contains the following passage:\n\nSteiner begins the second part of the book by emphasizing the role of self-awareness in objective thinking. Here he modifies the usual description of inner and outer experience by pointing out that our feelings, for example, are given to us as naively as outer perceptions. Both of these, feelings and perceptions, tell about objects we are interested in: the one about ourselves, the other about the world. Both require the help of thinking to penetrate the reasons that they arise, to comprehend their inner message. The same is true of our will. Whereas our feelings tell how the world affects us, our will tells how we would affect the world. Neither attains to true objectivity, for both mix the world's existence and our inner life in an unclear way. Steiner emphasizes that we experience our feelings and will - and our perceptions as well – as being more essentially part of us than our thinking; the former are more basic, more natural. He celebrates this gift of natural, direct experience, but points out that this experience is still dualistic in the sense that it only encompasses one side of the world.\n\nWith regard to freedom of the will, Steiner observes that a key question is how the will to action arises in the first place. Steiner describes to begin with two sources for human action: on the one hand, the driving forces springing from our natural being, from our instincts, feelings, and thoughts insofar as these are determined by our character - and on the other hand, various kinds of external motives we may adopt, including the dictates of abstract ethical or moral codes. In this way, both nature and culture bring forces to bear on our will and soul life. Overcoming these two elements, neither of which is individualized, we can achieve genuinely individualized intuitions that speak to the particular situation at hand. By overcoming a slavish or automatic response to the dictates of both our 'lower' drives and conventional morality, and by orchestrating a meeting place of objective and subjective elements of experience, we find the freedom to choose how to think and act (Wilson Ch. 9).\n\nFreedom for Steiner does not consist in acting out everything subjective within us, but in acting out of love, thoughtfully and creatively. In this way we can love our own actions, which are unique and individual to us, rather than stemming from obedience to external moral codes or compulsive physical drives. Both of the latter constitute limitations on freedom:\n\nFreedom arises most clearly at the moment when a human being becomes active in pure, individualized thinking; this is, for Steiner, spiritual activity. Achieving freedom is then accomplished by learning to let an ever larger portion of one's actions be determined by such individualized thought, rather than by habit, addiction, reflex, or involuntary or unconscious motives. Steiner differentiates pure thinking into \"moral intuition\" (formulation of individual purposes), \"moral imagination\" (creative strategies for realizing these larger purposes in the concrete situation), and \"moral technique\" (the practical capacity to accomplish what was intended). He suggests that we only achieve free deeds when we find an ethically impelled but particularized response to the immediacy of a given situation. Such a response will always be radically individual; it cannot be predicted or prescribed.\n\nSteiner's ethical philosophy is neither utilitarian nor deontological. For Steiner, the highest morality exists when a person acts in the world through deeds of love realized by means of individually developed and contextually-sensitive moral imaginations, This of course raises the difficulty of the one who loves evil and acts on the basis of this love. Are his actions of \"the highest morality\"?\n\nThis all is by way of introduction and recapitulation. Steiner then introduces the principle that we can act out of the compulsions of our natural being (reflexes, drives, desires) or out of the compulsion of ethical principles, and that neither of these leaves us free. Between them, however, is an individual insight, a partly situational ethic, that arises neither from abstract principles nor from our bodily impulses. A deed that arises in this way can be said to be truly free; it is also both unpredictable and wholly individual. Here Steiner articulates his fundamental maxim of social life:\n\nHere he describes a polarity of influences on human nature, stating that morality transcends both the determining factors of bodily influences and those of convention:\n\nFor Steiner, true morality, the highest good, is the universal mediated by the profoundly individual and situational; it depends upon our achieving freedom from both our inner drives and outer pressures. To achieve such free deeds, we must cultivate our \"moral imagination\", our ability to imaginatively create ethically sound and practical solutions to new situations, in fact, to forge our own ethical principles and to transform these flexibly as needed - not in the service of our own egotistical purposes, but in the face of new demands and unique situations. This is only possible through \"moral intuitions\", immediate experiences of spiritual realities that underlie moral judgments. Moral imagination and intuition allow us to realize our subjective impulses in objective reality, thus creating bridges between the spiritual influence of our subjectivity and the natural influence of the objective world in deeds whereby \"that which is natural is spiritual, that which is spiritual is natural\".\n\nToward the end of the second part of the book, Steiner writes that \"The unique character of the idea, by means of which I distinguish myself as 'I', makes me an individual.\" And then, \"An act the grounds for which lie in the ideal part of my nature is free.\" Steiner there is using the term \"ideal\" to refer to pure ideation or pure thinking in Steiner's sense. \"The action is therefore neither stereotyped, carried out according to set rules, nor is it performed automatically in response to an external impetus; the action is determined solely through its ideal content.\" What is individual in us is to be distinguished from what is generic by its ideal character. If an act proceeds out of genuine thinking, or practical reason, then it is free.\n\nSteiner concludes by pointing out that to achieve this level of freedom, we must lift ourselves out of our group-existence: out of the prejudices we receive from our family, nation, ethnic group and religion, and all that we inherit from the past that limits our creative and imaginative capacity to meet the world directly. Only when we realize our potential to be a unique individual are we free. Thus, it lies in our freedom to achieve freedom; only when we actively strive towards freedom do we have some chance of attaining it.\n\nBefore 1900, Steiner was laying the epistemological basis of his thought. Steiner mentioned that \"The Philosophy of Freedom\" was intended to give the philosophical foundations for what had been outlined in his earlier work \"Truth and Science\" (1892).\n\nIn works written after 1900, Steiner began to explain how thinking can evolve to become an organ of perception of higher worlds of living, creative, spiritual beings. Steiner frequently referred to \"The Philosophy of Freedom\" in his later lectures and in written works. Near the end of his life, he suggested that \"The Philosophy of Freedom\" would outlive all his other works.\n\nSteiner's principal works on philosophy include:\n\nThe first edition of \"Die Philosophie der Freiheit\" was published in 1893/4. A second revised edition appeared in 1918. Further German editions reprinted the 1918 text until 1973, when a revised edition was produced based on Steiner's corrections of the galley proofs of the 1918 edition. Minor changes, including corrections to some of Steiner's citations, were made in the 1987 German edition.\n\nThe first edition included the following passage Steiner removed from later editions: “We no longer believe that there is a norm to which we must all strive to conform. Nothing is accepted as valid, unless it springs from the roots of individuality. The saying \"Each one of us must choose his hero in whose footsteps he toils up to Olympus\" no longer holds for us. If only we probe deep enough into the very heart of our being, there dwells something noble, something worthy of development.”\n\nIn the appendix added to the 1918 edition, Steiner stated emphatically that the monism \"of thought\" proposed in his book was quite different from what Eduard von Hartmann and others called \"epistemological\" monism.\n\nEnglish translations include: \n\nThere is a comparison tool to compare most of the above translations.\n\nWhile \"The Philosophy of Freedom\" is a literal translation of the German title (\"Die Philosophie der Freiheit\"), Steiner suggested at the time of the first English edition in 1916 that the title \"The Philosophy of Spiritual Activity\" be used as it would more accurately characterize the book's theme of freedom as a dynamic process of development, as opposed to the fixed state connoted by the etymology of \"freedom\" (\"dom\"=a state or condition).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11308681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11308681", "title": "The Saviors of God", "text": "The Saviors of God\n\nAscesis: The Saviors of God (Greek and Latin: . ) is a series of \"spiritual exercises\" written by Greek author Nikos Kazantzakis. It was first written between 1922 and 1923, while staying in Vienna and Berlin, and subsequently published in 1927 in the Athenian magazine \"Anayennisi\" (\"Renaissance\"). The text was later revised on various occasions and reached its final state in 1944.\n\nThe author first presents a prologue. Given the sacred tone of the book, which strives to go beyond philosophy and metaphysics, this introduction is better understood as an admonition. The first words summarize the undercurrent of \"The Saviors of God\": \"We came from an abyss of darkness; we end in an abyss of darkness: the interval of light between one and another we name life.\"\n\nKazantzakis thought that there are two streams in life: the first one runs toward ascesis, synthesis, life and immortality, while the second one runs towards dissolution, matter, death. However, both streams are part of the universe, and being so, sacred. One of Kazantzakis' main concerns was what force drives the uncreated to the created. As opposition seems to be intrinsic to life and infinite, human beings should strive to ascend to a harmonic view of these oppositions, to be a guide for thought and action.\n\nAccording to Kimon Friar, the English translator of many of Kazantzakis' writings, \"The Saviors of God\" occupies a central role in the work of the Greek author. In the second part of his lengthy introduction to \"\", Friar notes:\n\n"}
{"id": "50852795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50852795", "title": "Theodore de Korwin Szymanowski", "text": "Theodore de Korwin Szymanowski\n\nTheodore de Korwin Szymanowski ( ); ); born in Cygów, Poland on 4 July 1846, died in Kiev, on 20 September 1901) was a Polish nobleman and impoverished landowner, an economic and political theorist writing in French. He was the author in 1885 of a strikingly original economic blueprint for a proto Unified Europe and for the abolition of African slavery. He was also a Polish poet.\n\nBorn into a notable and well connected Polish noble family, of Roman Catholic observance, he was the only surviving son of Napoleonic officer and banker, Feliks Szymanowski and his wife, Maria Łubieńska, granddaughter of minister of justice, Feliks Lubienski. The composer Karol Szymanowski was a younger relative. He was raised together with his cousin, Bernard Łubieński, in Warsaw and on the family estate in Mazovia in Russian-occupied Poland. Frequent visitors were their first cousins, Jacek Malczewski and his family. From 1858, Theodore was educated in France at the Jesuit-run Collège St Clément in Metz. He absconded from school with the intention of taking part in the 1863 Uprising but, as recorded in 1863 by his kinsman, bishop Konstanty Ireneusz Łubieński in a letter to Tomasz Wentworth Łubieński, 16-year-old Theodore was arrested in Kraków in the Habsburg controlled province of Galicia. There is no evidence that he saw any fighting but he was escorted back to school to complete his studies. In 1864 he would have witnessed the end of serfdom in Poland, regarded as a swift reprisal by the Tsarist authorities against the insurgent Polish gentry. It was a profound social change that was later to inform his original theoretical writing.\n\nHis ageing father's declining health and the downturn in the family's fortunes probably curtailed his opportunity for further formal education. In 1867, twenty year old Theodore inherited the family estate. He was introduced into society to find a suitable match. When he was 27, he was introduced during a New Year's ball to the twenty year old, Julia Bożeniec Jełowicka, descended from Ruthenian aristocracy whose legal guardian was Feliks Sobański, a first cousin of Theodore's mother. Marriage followed in 1874 and her dowry temporarily boosted the depleted Szymanowski coffers. The couple went on to have seven sons, of whom one died in infancy, and one daughter. Whether due to the economic climate or to mismanagement, by 1885 the family were obliged to abandon their home and livelihood of the preceding 130 years. There is a suggestion that the estate may have been confiscated by the authorities as a result of Theodore's political activities, although evidence for this has not been confirmed. He was careful to express his controversial views in French and have them published in Paris, out of the Tsar's reach. In effect, the family was 'exiled' to Western Ukraine where it remained in straitened circumstances for the duration of Theodor's life.\n\nKorwin Szymanowski's polemical \"L'avenir économique, social et politique en Europe\" – The Future of Europe in Economic, Political and Social Terms – was written in French in 1885 and published in Paris in 1885 and 88. At the time Poland was a dismembered state and occupied by Russia, Prussia and Austria-Hungary. His work begins with this exhortation:\n\n'Forgive the author's poor style, as he is a Frenchman only by sentiment, but read on to the end, and seek, in these disparate and unorganised thoughts, the enigma of our misfortunes.'\n\nAs a declared francophile, he envisaged a Europe predicated on a reformed parliamentary system, a customs union, centrally collected statistics, financial contributions from all the participating European states for deposit and lending via a central bank with a common currency, for preference, the French franc. His thesis was not influenced by any kind of Socialism in the style of French contemporaries like Henry Maret or Jules Ferry. It was underscored by a form of absolutism, born probably out of his deep commitment to Catholicism, combined with a deliberate nod to the absolutist authorities in Saint Petersburg.\n\nThe text lay forgotten until its rediscovery in a library at the start of the 21st century. It is not yet known whether it influenced, however indirectly, the architects of the post-war European Common Market, people like Robert Schuman from Metz or Jean Monnet, seventy years after he wrote down his economic design for a unified Europe. As commented by his recent editor, Prof. Żurawski vel Grajewski in the postface, Szymanowski's contribution was part of a wider 19th c. European concern about an ailing Europe that felt threatened by social unrest and the Mahdi. His innovation was to focus on economics, statistics and monetary policy rather than on questions of nationalism, sovereignty or federalism. Irrespective of whether it was a republic or monarchy, though he preferred the latter, he made the distinction between nation and state.\n\nFrom his remote exile, as Korwin Szymanowski states throughout his writings, he corresponded with unnamed influential political figures in Paris – he had possibly met them at school – and with mandarins in the ministry of finance in St Petersburg, in an attempt to bring them round to his macro-economic pragmatism. He was able to follow major international events like the European scramble for Africa, discussed at the Berlin Conference 1884-5, which elicited a polemical pamphlet from him in 1890.\nThrough church and family connections, he was able to make a rare visit to France and attend the 1890 Paris Antislavery Conference convened by Cardinal Lavigerie. At its conclusion he produced his text \"l'Esclavage Africain\", lobbying for an African Central Bank as a means of combatting slavery by enabling the trade in natural resources to replace the trade in human beings: an economic solution to a moral and social evil. The Polish historian Radosław Żurawski vel Grajewski makes a case for Korwin Szymanowski benefiting greatly from the presence and contacts in Paris of his wife's uncle, the émigré activist and musician, Théodore Jełowicki (1828–1905). He would have been in a position to facilitate the publication of Korwin Szymanowski's work.\n\nOnly two poetical works by Korwin Szymanowski are extant, both written in Polish; one published in Paris and the other in Kiev. They are allegorical works in marked contrast to his economic and political polemics, drawing on his religious preoccupations yet informed by his personal dilemmas and those of his nation deprived of statehood for over a century. The first work concerns the history of the world and the creation of angels and the fall of some of them. The second work tells the heroic story of a Ruthenian princess, Sophia Olelkovich Radziwill, who was declared a saint by the Eastern Orthodox Church in 1983. His subtext seemed to be that Christian denominations, especially Roman Catholic and Russian Orthodox should cooperate in the face of perceived common threats.\n\nDespite falling on hard times, Korwin Szymanowski maintained a constructive outlook throughout his written work. He died at the relatively young age of 55 in abject poverty and was buried in Kiev. His grave has not survived.\n\n\"Note: The modern Polish spelling of the author's surname is hyphenated, which is how it appears in the 2015 edition of his work on Europe.\"\n\nin French\n\nin Polish\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42552083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42552083", "title": "Tripura Rahasya", "text": "Tripura Rahasya\n\nThe Tripura Rahasya (Devanagari: त्रिपुरा रहस्य, ) meaning \"The Mystery beyond the Trinity\", is an ancient literary work in Sanskrit believed to have been narrated by Dattatreya to Parashurama. It is an ancient prime text which is one of the treatises on Advaita school of classical Indian Metaphysics.\n\nTripura means three cities or the trinity. Rahasya means secret or mystery. In a sense there is no secret to be revealed. It is only due to lack of wisdom that humans don't experience their true nature. Therefore, mystery would be a more appropriate translation. Thus, Tripura Rahasya means the Mystery beyond the Trinity. The three cities or states of consciousness are waking (Jagrut), dreaming (Svapna) and deep sleep (Shushupti). The underlying consciousness in them all is called Sri Tripura, the Mother Goddess Chandika.\n\nThe Tripura Rahasya expounds the teachings of the supreme spiritual truth. The highest truth was first taught by Lord Shiva to Lord Vishnu. Lord Vishnu incarnated on earth as Sri Dattatreya, Lord of the Avadhutas, who taught this to Parasurama, who later taught it to Haritayana.\n\nThe Tripura Rahasya is a dialogue between Lord Dattatreya and Parasurama. It is also called the Haritayana Samhita after its author Haritayana, son of Harita.\n\nIt is said to consist of 12,000 slokas in three sections - The Mahatmya Khanda (Section on the Greatness of Sri Devi), Jnana Khanda (Section on Supreme Wisdom), and Charya Khanda (Section on Conduct). Of these the first consists of 6,687 slokas; the second of 2,163 slokas; and the third is untraceable.\n\nJamadagni was a Brahmin saint who lived in the forest with his wife Renuka and his sons, of whom Parasurama was the youngest, the most renowned and valiant. The country was then ruled by Haihayas, a certain clan of Kshatriyas. Some of them came into a clash with Parasurama, but fared the worse. They dared not challenge him afterwards. Their rancor, however, remained, and they could not resist their longing for revenge. They seized their opportunity when Parasurama was far away from the hermitage and attacked and killed his saintly father. On the son’s return, the mother narrated the unprovoked murder of the saint; she also desired that her husband’s body should be cremated on the banks of the Ganges and that she might perform Sati by mounting the funeral pyre.\n\nParasurama vowed that he would clear the earth of the Kshatriya vermin. He placed his father’s corpse on one shoulder and took his living mother on the other and set out for to the Ganges. While passing through a forest an Avadhuta, by name Dattatreya, saw Renuka and stopped the young man who carried her. The Avadhutha addressed Renuka as Shakti incarnate, of unparalleled might (ऐकवीरा) and worshipped her. She blessed him and told him of her life on earth and her resolve to end it. She also advised her son to look to Dattatreya for help when needed. Parasurama went on his way and fulfilled his mother’s desire.\n\nHe then challenged every Kshatriya in the land and killed them all. Their blood was collected in a pool in Kurukshetra, and Parasurama offered oblations to his forefathers with it. His dead ancestors appeared and told him to desist from his bloody revenge. Accordingly, he retired into a mountain fastness and lived as a hermit. Hearing on one occasion of the prowess of Rama, his wrath rekindled and he came back to challenge him. Rama was born of Dasaratha who, though a Kshatriya, escaped his doom by a ruse. Rama accepted Parasurama’s challenge and got the better of him.\n\nDattatreya\n\nThere was once a dutiful wife whose husband was, however, a licentious wretch. This couple unwittingly disturbed Rishi Mandavya, who had been placed on a spear by a misguided king. The Rishi, who was in agony but not dying, cursed them, saying that the husband would die at sunrise and the wife be left a widow. Widowhood is most abhorrent to a Hindu lady and considered worse than death. By the force of her intense loyalty to her husband she resisted the curse of the Rishi: The Sun could not rise, and the Gods were rendered impotent.\n\nThe Gods in council resolved to approach Anasuya — the ideal of wife-hood — to ask her to prevail on the other lady to relent. Anasuya promised her that she would restore her dead husband to life, and so the matter ended satisfactorily for all.\n\nThe three chief Gods then agreed to be born as sons to Anasuya. Brahma was born as the Chandra (Moon); Shiva as Durvasa; and Sri Narayana as Datta. The last is also called “Datta Atreya,” of which the latter word is the patronymic derived from Atri, the husband of Anasuya. Sri Dattatreya is the foremost in the line of divine teachers incarnate on earth.\n\nParasurama's encounter with Samvarta\n\nAfter encounter with Rama, Parasurama returned crest-fallen and on his way met an Avadhuta named Samvarta, the brother of Brihaspati who advised him to seek Dattatreya. Later he encountered Sri Dattatreya who instructed him in the Truth with added injunction that it should be communicated to Haritayana who would later seek the truth from him and so led him to salvation. Parasurama thus realized the Self by the guidance of Sri Datta and dwelt on the Malaya Hill in South India.\n\nLater a Brahmin Sumedha, son of Harita (hence the name \"Haritayana\") sought Parasurama to learn the highest good from him, who in turn imparted to him the knowledge which he had gained from Dattatreya. Parasurama told him also that his Master had predicted the compilation of the knowledge of the Highest Truth by Haritayana for the benefit of mankind.\n\nTripura Rahasya was venerated by Ramana Maharshi, he often quoted from it and regretted that it was not available in English. As a consequence \"Sri Munagala Venkataramaiah\" (now Swami Ramanananda Saraswathi) took up the work of translation in 1936.This was first published in parts in the Bangalore Mythic Society's Journal (Quarterly) from January 1938 to April 1940 and afterwards collected into book form.\n\nA newer translation by \"SAMVID\" was published in 2000 by \"Ramana Maharshi Centre for Learning\" (Bangalore). The translator has based her/his introduction on the commentary of Srinivasa (\"Tatparyadipika\") and writes that s/he has attempted a faithful and literal translation, even at the possible occasional expense of readability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1261154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1261154", "title": "Turiya", "text": "Turiya\n\nIn Hindu philosophy, turiya (Sanskrit: तुरीय, meaning \"the fourth\") or caturiya, chaturtha, is pure consciousness. Turiya is the background that underlies and transcends the three common states of consciousness. The states of consciousness are: waking consciousness, dreaming, and dreamless sleep.\n\nTuriya is discussed in Verse 7 of the Mandukya Upanishad; however, the idea is found in the oldest Upanishads. For example, Chapters 8.7 through 8.12 of Chandogya Upanishad discuss the \"four states of consciousness\" as awake, dream-filled sleep, deep sleep, and beyond deep sleep. Similarly, Brihadaranyaka Upanishad, in chapter 5.14 discusses Turiya state, as does Maitri Upanishad in sections 6.19 and 7.11.\n\nVerse VII of the Mandukya Upanishad describes Turiya:\nThe insight during meditation of Turiya is known as \"amātra\", the 'immeasurable' or 'measureless' in the Mandukya Upanishad, being synonymous to samādhi in Yoga terminology.\n\nAdvaita posits three states of consciousness, namely waking (jagrat), dreaming (svapna), deep sleep (suṣupti), which are empirically experienced by human beings, and correspond to the Three Bodies Doctrine:\n\nAdvaita also posits the fourth state of Turiya, which some describe as pure consciousness, the background that underlies and transcends these three common states of consciousness. Turiya is the state of liberation, where according to the Advaita school, one experiences the infinite (\"ananta\") and non-different (\"advaita/abheda\"), that is free from the dualistic experience, the state in which ajativada, non-origination, is apprehended. According to Candradhara Sarma, Turiya state is where the foundational Self is realized, it is measureless, neither cause nor effect, all pervading, without suffering, blissful, changeless, self-luminous, real, immanent in all things and transcendent. Those who have experienced the Turiya stage of self-consciousness have reached the pure awareness of their own non-dual Self as one with everyone and everything, for them the knowledge, the knower, the known becomes one, they are the \"Jivanmukta\".\n\nAdvaita traces the foundation of this ontological theory in more ancient Sanskrit texts. For example, chapters 8.7 through 8.12 of Chandogya Upanishad discuss the \"four states of consciousness\" as awake, dream-filled sleep, deep sleep, and beyond deep sleep. One of the earliest mentions of \"Turiya\", in the Hindu scriptures, occurs in verse 5.14.3 of the \"Brihadaranyaka Upanishad\". The idea is also discussed in other early Upanishads.\n\nGaudapada (ca. 7th century) was an early guru in the Advaita Vedanta. Gaudapada is traditionally said to have been the grand-guru of the great teacher, Adi Shankara, one of the most important figures in Hindu philosophy. Gaudapada is believed to be the founder of Shri Gaudapadacharya Math, and the author or compiler of the .\n\nGaudapada wrote or compiled the , also known as the and as the . In this work, Gaudapada deals with perception, idealism, causality, truth, and reality. The fourth state, (\"turīya avasthā\"), corresponds to silence, as the other three correspond to AUM. It is the substratum of the other three states. It is, states Nakamura, \"atyanta-shunyata\" (absolute emptiness).\n\nMichael Comans disagrees with Nakamura's thesis that \"the fourth realm (\"caturtha\") was perhaps influenced by the \"Sunyata\" of Mahayana Buddhism.\" According to Comans,\nComans further refers to Nakamura himself, who notes that later Mahayana sutras such as the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" and the concept of Buddha-nature, were influenced by Vedantic thought. Comans concludes that\nIsaeva states that there are differences in the teachings in the texts of Buddhism and the Mandukya Upanishad of Hinduism, because the latter asserts that \"citta\" \"consciousness\" is identical with the eternal and immutable atman \"soul, self\" of the Upanishads. In other words, Mandukya Upanishad and Gaudapada affirm the soul exists, while Buddhist schools affirm that there is no soul or self.\n\nAdi Shankara described, on the basis of the ideas propounded in the Mandukya Upanishad, the three states of consciousness, namely waking (jågrata), dreaming (svapna), and deep\nsleep (susupti), which correspond to the three bodies:\n\nIn the waking consciousness there is a sense of 'I' (self identity) and awareness of thoughts. In the sleep/dream state there is no or little sense of 'I'; however, there are thoughts and the awareness of thoughts. Waking and dreaming are not true experiences of Absolute Reality and metaphysical truth, because of their dualistic natures of subject and object, self and not-self, ego, and non-ego.\n\nKashmir Shaivism holds the existence of a fifth state called \"turyātīta\" meaning beyond the fourth. Abhinavagupta mentions this state in the Tantrāloka (\"śloka\" 223b). This state is seen as an integration of the other four states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3188707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3188707", "title": "Vagueness doctrine", "text": "Vagueness doctrine\n\nIn American constitutional law, a statute is void for vagueness and unenforceable if it is too vague for the average citizen to understand, or if a term cannot be strictly defined and is not defined anywhere in such law. There are several reasons a statute may be considered vague; in general, a statute might be called void for vagueness reasons when an average citizen cannot generally determine what persons are regulated, what conduct is prohibited, or what punishment may be imposed. Criminal laws which do not state explicitly and definitely what conduct is punishable for example are void for vagueness. A statute is also void for vagueness if a legislature's delegation of authority to judges and/or administrators is so extensive that it would lead to arbitrary prosecutions. Related to the \"void for vagueness\" concept is the \"unconstitutional vagueness\" concept (see below).\n\nTo summarize the contents of the doctrine, it establishes specific criteria all laws, or any legislation must meet, to qualify as constitutional. Such criteria includes the following:\n\n\nIn the case of vagueness, a statute might be considered void on constitutional grounds. Specifically, roots of the vagueness doctrine extend into the two due process clauses, in the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution. The courts have generally determined that vague laws deprive citizens of their rights without fair process, thus violating due process.\n\nThe following pronouncement of the void for vagueness doctrine was made by Justice Sutherland in \"Connally v. General Construction Co.\", 269 U.S. 385, 391 (1926):\n\nThe void for vagueness doctrine is a constitutional rule. This rule requires that criminal laws are so written that they explicitly and definitely state what conduct is punishable. The void for vagueness doctrine thus serves two purposes. First: All persons receive a fair notice of what is punishable and what is not. Second: The vagueness doctrine helps prevent arbitrary enforcement of the laws and arbitrary prosecutions. There is however no limit to the conduct that can be criminalized, when the legislature does not set minimum guidelines to govern law enforcement.\n\nThere are at least two ways a law might be attacked for being unconstitutionally vague:\n\n\nBoth scienter and objective criteria that specify the harm to be protected against are necessary to limit vagueness in criminal statutes (Compare page 9 of ). To satisfy the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment, individuals are entitled to understand the scope and nature of statutes which might subject them to criminal penalties. Thus, in \"Skilling v. United States\" (2010), it was held that a \"penal statute must define the criminal offense (1) with sufficient definiteness that ordinary people can understand what conduct is prohibited and (2) in a manner that does not encourage arbitrary and discriminatory enforcement.\"\n\nUnconstitutional vagueness is a concept that is used to strike down certain laws and judicial actions in United States federal courts. It is derived from the due process doctrine found in the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution. No one must risk criminal prosecution merely because he or she cannot reasonably understand what conduct is prohibited under the law.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9415419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9415419", "title": "Vocational discernment in the Catholic Church", "text": "Vocational discernment in the Catholic Church\n\nVocational discernment is the process in which men or women in the Catholic Church discern, or recognize, their vocation in the church. The vocations are the life as layman in the world, either married or single, the ordained life and the consecrated life.\n\nEach diocese, religious institute, or monastery usually has its own guidelines and advice for men or women discerning religious vocations. Many dioceses and religious institutes encourage men and women with potential vocations to spend time, usually anywhere from six months to a year, praying and asking God to enlighten them. Those who feel they might be called to a religious vocation are encouraged to seek a spiritual director to help them along the way. After the set time, many institutes have a formal discernment process which the candidate will engage in, before entering the institute as a novice, or the seminary. Candidates should be advised that some traditions hold that a person can feel the judgements of others, and so a perceived vocation may merely be the judgement of one's parish that one ought to be a priest.\n\nFor men there are a number of vocations in the Catholic Church. The best known is the vocation to the priesthood, as either a diocesan or a religious priest. A diocesan priest serves in a particular diocese and is under the local bishop. A religious priest (in this sense) is a member of a specific religious institute such as the Trinitarians, Holy Cross Fathers and Brothers or Jesuits. Diocesan and religious priests may also serve for a time in specific apostolates such as military chaplains or the maritime apostolate.\n\nIn addition, men may be called to religious life as a non-ordained friar, monk, or a brother. Friars are members of mendicant orders, such the Franciscans or Augustinians. Monks are usually members of cloistered communities. Friars, monks, and religious Brothers all take vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience. Benedictine monks take a vow of stability, which is a commitment to their particular community. Members of societies of apostolic life, without taking religious vows, emphasize apostolic service and are fully active in society.\n\nOther vocations for men in the Catholic Church include those to being permanent deacons, hermits, and consecrated members of a secular institute. It is possible for someone to experience a combination of vocations. Thomas Merton became a Trappist monk, was ordained a priest, and lived for a time in a hermitage on the monastery grounds. \n\nSince the Second Vatican Council, it has become more popular to consider committed single life, marriage, parenthood, and many other services as \"lay\" vocations, since each also requires a commitment to Christian faith and practice.\n\nFor women, vocational discernment would consist of feeling called to marriage, the life of a religious sister or nun, a consecrated member of a Secular Institute, a hermit, or a Consecrated Virgin. The Catholic Church does not consider possible ordination of women to the priesthood. Religious sisters are similar to active religious brothers. Nuns, in the strict sense of the word, correspond to monks.\n\nSince the Second Vatican Council, it has become more popular to consider committed single life, marriage, parenthood, and many other services as \"lay\" vocations, since each also requires a commitment to Christian faith and practice.\n\nTraditionally the term vocation was used in the Catholic Church only to refer to priestly or religious vocations, the vocation to live a life directly consecrated to God. Thomas Aquinas, e.g., only explicitly uses the term vocation to refer to vocation to grace or conversion, or to enter religious life, though it has been argued that his teaching may be logically extended to include marriage as a vocation. In the 20th century there has been a growing movement to extend the use of the term widely. The Second Vatican Council taught that \"all\" Christians, whatever their state, are called \"to the fullness of the Christian life and to the perfection of charity\". The conclusion drawn from this principle is that any way of life that can be a full expression of Christian charity, and a means for growing towards the perfection of it, can be a vocation. Pope John Paul II taught that \"there are two specific ways of realizing the vocation of the human person, in its entirety, to love: marriage and virginity or celibacy\".\n\nIt has been argued that associating vocation with particular states of life such as marriage or religious life is too narrow and that many Christian vocations do not fit neatly into those categories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36808984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36808984", "title": "Wlodek Rabinowicz", "text": "Wlodek Rabinowicz\n\nWlodek Rabinowicz (Włodzimierz Rabinowicz, born on 14 January 1947 in Warsaw) is a philosopher elaborating ethics, normativity, decision theory and utilitarianism. At present he is working as professor of practical philosophy at Lund University. During the period of 1995–98 he was editor-in-chief of \"Theoria\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27389687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27389687", "title": "World Phenomenology Institute", "text": "World Phenomenology Institute\n\nWorld Phenomenology Institute (WPI) is an academic organization founded in 1976 (originally named the World Institute for Advanced Phenomenological Research and Learning) to promote scholarship in the area of phenomenology. The organization was founded by Anna-Teresa Tymieniecka.\n\nMarlies Kronegger\n"}
{"id": "34564395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34564395", "title": "Yun Doo-su", "text": "Yun Doo-su\n\nYun Doo-su(윤두수, 尹斗壽, 1533–1601) was Joseon Dynasty Politician, Poet, Writer, and Neo-Confucian philosophic scholar. He served as the Yeonguijeong (Chief State Councillor) during the reign of King Seonjo. His pen name was Oheum(오음, 梧陰), courtesy name was Jaang (자앙, 子仰). He was follower of Yi Hwang school among Westerners (Hangul: 서인, Korean: Seoin).\n\nYun Doo-su was born in 1533 at Hansung (Seoul). His father was Yun Byeon(윤변, 尹忭, 1493–1549), who was government official. His younger brother Yun Geun-su was also major politician during reign of King Seonjo and Gwanghae. His family origin is Haepyeong and his family progenitor was Yun Gun-jeong (윤군정, 尹君正) who served as Pan-gongbusa (Chairman of supreme government office) of Goryeo dynasty during era of Gojong of Goryeo and Wonjong (원종, 元宗, 1219–1274).\n\n\nAs most intelligent mind of Neo-Confucian philosophy, he interacted with masters of Neo-Confucianism school, such as Seong Hon, Song Ik-pil, Yi I, and Yi Hwang.\n\nMost of his writings are written during the Japanese invasions of Korea.\n\n"}
