{"id": "1581160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1581160", "title": "1573 in music", "text": "1573 in music\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "226280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226280", "title": "1671 in literature", "text": "1671 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1671.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27573678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27573678", "title": "Aghadoe Cathedral", "text": "Aghadoe Cathedral\n\nAghadoe Cathedral was a church that may have been the seat of a bishop at Aghadoe, Ireland (later joined with the Bishopric of Ardfert). The now ruined cathedral overlooks the Lakes of Killarney from Aghadoe, a few miles from Killarney. Aghadoe may have been the site of a church as early as the seventh century, but extant remains are of a stone structure built in the eleventh and twelfth centuries.\n\nAghadoe, (Irish: \"Achadh Deo\" \"place with two yews\") may have begun as a pagan religious site. The site has also been associated with the fifth century missionary St. Abban, but seventh century ogham stones mark the first clear evidence of Aghadoe being used as an important site. According to legend, St. Finian founded a monastery at Aghadoe in the sixth or seventh century. The first written record of a monastery dates from 939 AD in the Annals of Innisfallen where the Aghadoe monastery is referred to as the \"Old Abbey.\" The monastery at Aghadoe had a close relationship with the one on nearby Innisfallen Island. Maelsuthain O'Carroll, one of Innisfallen's greatest scholars, was buried at Aghadoe after his death in 1010 AD, and a legend suggests that the two monasteries were connected by a causeway across Loch Lein. In 1027 the Annals make the first reference to a stone building on the site, noting the construction of Damh Liag Maenig (Maenach’s house of stone). Construction on the round tower began the same year. Aghadoe witnessed the turbulence of the times. In 1061, an O'Cathail, the heir to the local dynasty of Eóganacht Locha Léin, was taken from the church and murdered. \n\nIn the middle of the twelfth century Amhlaoibh Mór Ó Donoghue, the leader of the Ó Donoghue—the new rulers of Eóganacht Locha Léin, had a new church building, later called the \"Great Church,\" constructed in the Romanesque style and dedicated to the Holy Trinity. The new structure, completed in 1158, incorporated part of the old stone building in its northwest section and makes up the western section of the extant remains. When Amhlaoibh Mór Ó Donoghue was killed, his body was carried to Aghadoe and interred in the church. The final addition to the church was constructed in the twelfth century. The addition served as a chancel or choir, and was later separated from the rest of the church by a wall.\n\nAfter being incorporated into the Bishopric of Ardfert, Aghadoe operated as a parish church under an archdeacon. The church is mentioned in a 1615 report, but it is excluded from a list of abbeys in the report suggesting it had become only an archdeaconry. The town of Aghadoe was sacked in the 1650s by Cromwell's forces. By 1740, Aghadoe is no longer listed as an active parish and seems to have ceased functioning.\n\nTwo ogham stones have been found at Aghadoe. One is currently cemented in the south wall of the chancel and bears an inscription transcribed as \"BRRUANANN\" The inscription may have actually been intended as \"BRREANANN,\" a possible reference to St. Brendan. A second ogham stone has since gone missing, but its inscription was transcribed as \"GGVVSS MN.\" The presence of these ogham stones suggests the site's importance dates back to the mid-seventh century. Another early Christian artifact, a bullaun, can be found outside of church by the northwest corner of the nave. The bullaun may have been originally been used as a quern-stone, but it was later used as a holy water receptacle and rainwater collected in the hollow of the stone had healing properties according to lore.\nThe \"Aghadoe Crosier\" from Aghadoe was made of walrus ivory and carved in the Urnes style of the Vikings. The carvings are similar to those on the jambs of Romanesque doorway to the cathedral. Another crosier, possibly associated with Aghadoe, was found in the lakes in 1867 by a fisherman who thought it was a salmon.\n\nAccording to the \"Annals of Innisfallen\", Aghadoe Cathedral's high cross toppled in a strong wind in 1282.\nA carved stone fragment found on the site is thought to date from the seventeenth century. It depicts the crucifixion with a female figure passing a chalice to Christ on the cross. The stone suggests Aghadoe was still used as a religious site during the seventeenth century.\n"}
{"id": "9667475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9667475", "title": "All India Fine Arts and Crafts Society", "text": "All India Fine Arts and Crafts Society\n\nThe All India Fine Arts and Crafts Society (AIFACS) is an independent arts organisation in India, founded in Delhi in 1928. In the decade after Indian independence, many of its functions were transferred to three national academies: Lalit Kala Akademi, Sangeet Natak Akademi and Sahitya Akademi for the fields of visual arts, theatre arts and literature. \n\nAIFACS organises art exhibitions and makes awards to artists across the country. Among the most prominent artists exhibited in the 1940s were Amrita Sher-Gil, Sailoz Mookherjea and Manishi Dey. Many other followed in the long history of the AIFACS.\n\nIts most prestigious awards include the Kala Shree, Kala Vibhushan and Kala Ratna, inaugurated in 1988. Twelve awards are given in each of these grades every three years. The highest award is the Kala Samrat.\n\nThe Society also published a newsletter several times a year, and older editions are posted on the society's website since 2010.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "261835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261835", "title": "Anne Dudley", "text": "Anne Dudley\n\nAnne Dudley (born 7 May 1956) is an English composer, keyboardist, conductor and pop musician. She was the first BBC Concert Orchestra's Composer in Association in 2001. She has worked in both the classical and pop genres, but she is perhaps best known as one of the core members of the synthpop band Art of Noise and as a film composer. In 1998 Dudley won an Academy Award for Best Original Musical or Comedy Score for \"The Full Monty\". In addition to over twenty other film scores, in 2012 she served as music producer for the film version of \"Les Misérables\", also acting as arranger and composing some new additional music.\n\nDudley was born Anne Jennifer Beckingham, in Beckenham, Kent. Trained as a classical performer, she moved into the competitive commercial field as a session musician, where her professional relationship with Trevor Horn began. In 1982 Dudley made significant contributions to the Horn-produced \"The Lexicon of Love\" album by ABC. She went from fleshing-out keyboard parts to scoring the album's orchestrations (which were, according to Horn, her first-ever string arrangements) and also co-writing some of the songs. Her association with Horn led on to working with artists such as Frankie Goes to Hollywood, Seal, Marc Almond, Rod Stewart, Robbie Williams and, more recently, Siphiwo. She has co-written songs with Malcolm McLaren (\"Buffalo Gals\"), Cathy Dennis (\"Too Many Walls\"), and a 1930s-inspired song with Sting called \"This Was Never Meant To Be\".\n\nShe produced the Tom Jones hit \"You Can Leave Your Hat On\" (1988) and a Debbie Harry single \"Strike Me Pink\" (1993). Dudley produced two tracks on the 2002 Opera Babes album \"Beyond Imagination\" (ranking No.1 on the UK classical charts for 11 weeks, and No.4 on the US billboard charts). In 2004 she produced the album \"Voice\" for Alison Moyet. The album, an eclectic collection of cover versions, reached No.7 in the UK Albums Chart.\n\nDudley was a founding member of the successful band Art of Noise, which helped pioneer the use of sampling within the pop genre. Their stand-out hits include \"Beat Box\" (1984), \"Moments in Love\" (1985), \"Close (to the Edit)\" (1984) and, with Tom Jones, \"Kiss\" (1988).\n\nHer works for orchestra include \"Northern Lights\", a 14-minute reflection of Norway's Aurora Borealis for full orchestra, performed in 2005 and 2006 at the Royal Festival Hall and broadcast on BBC Radio 3's \"Late Junction\" programme in May 2005. Her first commission as Composer in Association with the BBC Concert Orchestra was \"Music and Silence\", inspired by the novel of the same name by Rose Tremain and first performed at The Royal Festival Hall in 2002. Dudley arranged Bach's Chaconne from Partita in D minor for piano trio, and a recording by the Eroica Trio appears on their \"Baroque\" album. Her album \"Ancient and Modern\", with modern versions of some traditional hymns and Bach chorales, was released in 1999. She was the musical director for \"Bill Bailey's Remarkable Guide to the Orchestra\", first performed in Brighton then at the Royal Albert Hall in 2008, which was recorded and released as a DVD in December 2009. The show was toured in 2009 with eight different regional orchestras participating. It involved the orchestra playing the Nokia theme tune and a french horn concerto evolving into the theme from \"Coronation Street\".\n\nDudley collaborated with Sam Taylor-Wood in producing the sound and video installation \"Sigh\" at the White Cube in 2008. This work featured the BBC Concert Orchestra on eight large projected screens, miming to Dudley's score.\n\nDudley's career in film music has spanned 20 years and her film scores include:\n\n\nHer TV music includes:\n\nDudley has worked as a session musician for many artists, and her string and orchestral arrangements crop up on a diverse array of albums. These include: \n\nIn addition to Dudley's Academy Award for \"The Full Monty\", she has received a number of awards and nominations.\n\nShe was made a Fellow of The Royal College of Music in 2004, and in 2011 was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Kent.\n\nDudley lives in Hertfordshire, England, with her recording engineer husband Roger Dudley and daughter Angela.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4087576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4087576", "title": "Arab culture", "text": "Arab culture\n\nArab culture is the culture of the Arabs, from the Atlantic Ocean in the west to the Arabian Sea in the east, and from the Mediterranean Sea. Language, literature, gastronomy, art, architecture, music, spirituality, philosophy, mysticism (etc.) are all part of the cultural heritage of the Arabs.\n\nThe Arab world is sometimes divided into separate regions including Al-Maghrib Al-Arabi (consisting of Libya, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, and Mauritania), Fertile Crescent (consisting of Iraq, Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, Palestine and Jordan) and the Arabian Peninsula (consisting of south Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Al Ahwaz Al Arabiya, Oman and the UAE) and the Arabian Peninsula's Al-Janoub Al-Arabi (consisting of Yemen and Oman).\n\nArabic literature is the writing produced, both prose and poetry, by speakers of the Arabic language. It does not include works written using the Arabic alphabet but not in the Arabic language such as Persian and Urdu literature. The Arabic word used for literature is \"adab\" which is derived from a word meaning \"to invite someone for a meal\" and implies politeness, culture and enrichment. Arabic literature emerged in the 6th century, with only fragments of the written language appearing before then. The Qur'an, from the 7th century, had the greatest and longest-lasting effect on Arabic culture and literature. Al-Khansa, a female contemporary of Muhammad, was an acclaimed Arab poet.\n\nThe Mu'allaqat (Arabic: المعلقات, ) is the name given to a series of seven Arabic poems or qasida that originated before the time of Islam. Each poem in the set has a different author, and is considered to be their best work. Mu'allaqat means \"The Suspended Odes\" or \"The Hanging Poems,\" and comes from the poems being hung on the wall in the Kaaba at Mecca.\n\nThe seven authors, who span a period of around 100 years, are Imru' al-Qais, Tarafa, Zuhayr, Labīd, 'Antara Ibn Shaddad, 'Amr ibn Kulthum, and Harith ibn Hilliza. All of the Mu’allaqats contain stories from the authors’ lives and tribe politics. This is because poetry was used in pre-Islamic time to advertise the strength of a tribe’s king, wealth and people.\n\nThe \"One Thousand and One Nights\" ( \"ʾAlf layla wa-layla\"), is a medieval folk tale collection which tells the story of Scheherazade, a Sassanid queen who must relate a series of stories to her malevolent husband, King Shahryar (Šahryār), to delay her execution. The stories are told over a period of one thousand and one nights, and every night she ends the story with a suspenseful situation, forcing the King to keep her alive for another day. The individual stories were created over several centuries, by many people from a number of different lands.\n\nDuring the reign of the Abbasid Caliph Harun al-Rashid in the 8th century, Baghdad had become an important cosmopolitan city. Merchants from Persia, China, India, Africa, and Europe were all found in Baghdad. During this time, many of the stories that were originally folk stories are thought to have been collected orally over many years and later compiled into a single book. The compiler and ninth-century translator into Arabic is reputedly the storyteller Abu Abd-Allah Muhammad el-Gahshigar. The frame story of Shahrzad seems to have been added in the 14th century.\n\nArabic music is the music of Arab people, especially those centered around the Arabian Peninsula. The world of Arab music has long been dominated by Cairo, a cultural center, though musical innovation and regional styles abound from Tunisia to Saudi Arabia. Beirut has, in recent years, also become a major center of Arabic music. Classical Arab music is extremely popular across the population, especially a small number of superstars known throughout the Arab world. Regional styles of popular music include Iraqian el Maqaam, Algerian \"raï\", Kuwaiti \"sawt\" and Egyptian \"el gil\".\n\n\"The common style that developed is usually called 'Islamic' or 'Arab', though in fact it transcends religious, ethnic, geographical, and linguistic boundaries\" and it is suggested that it be called the Near East (from Morocco to India) style (van der Merwe, Peter 1989, p. 9).\n\nHabib Hassan Touma (1996, p.xix-xx) lists \"five components\" which \"characterize the music of the Arabs:\n\nMuch Arab music is characterized by an emphasis on melody and rhythm rather than harmony. Thus much Arabic music is homophonic in nature. Some genres of Arab music are polyphonic—as the instrument Kanoun is based upon the idea of playing two-note chords—but quintessentially, Arabic music is melodic.\n\nIt would be incorrect though to call it modal, for the Arabic system is more complex than that of the Greek modes. The basis of the Arabic music is the maqam (pl. maqamat), which looks like the mode, but is not quite the same. The maqam has a \"tonal\" note on which the piece must end (unless modulation occurs).\n\nThe maqam consists of at least two jins, or scale segments. \"Jins\" in Arabic comes from the ancient Greek word \"genus,\" meaning type. In practice, a jins (pl. ajnas) is either a trichord, a tetrachord, or a pentachord. The trichord is three notes, the tetrachord four, and the pentachord five. The maqam usually covers only one octave (two jins), but sometimes it covers more than one octave. Like the melodic minor scale and Indian ragas, some maqamat have different ajnas, and thus notes, while descending or ascending. Because of the continuous innovation of jins and because most music scholars don't agree on the existing number anyway, it's hard to give an accurate number of the jins. Nonetheless, in practice most musicians would agree on the 8 most frequently used ajnas: Rast, Bayat, Sikah, Hijaz, Saba, Kurd, Nahawand, and Ajam — and a few of the most commonly used variants of those: Nakriz, Athar Kurd, Sikah Beladi, Saba Zamzama. Mukhalif is a rare jins used exclusively in Iraq, and it does not occur in combination with other ajnas.\n\nThe main difference between the western chromatic scale and the Arabic scales is the existence of many in-between notes, which are sometimes referred to as quarter tones for the sake of practicality. However, while in some treatments of theory the quarter tone scale or all twenty four tones should exist, according to Yūsuf Shawqī (1969) in practice there are many fewer tones (Touma 1996, p. 170).\n\nIn fact, the situation is much more complicated than that. In 1932, at International Convention on Arabic music held in Cairo, Egypt (attended by such Western luminaries as Béla Bartók and Henry George Farmer), experiments were done which determined conclusively that the notes in actual use differ substantially from an even-tempered 24-tone scale, and furthermore that the intonation of many of those notes differ slightly from region to region (Egypt, Turkey, Syria, Iraq). The commission's recommendation is as follows: \"The tempered scale and the natural scale should be rejected. In Egypt, the Egyptian scale is to be kept with the values, which were measured with all possible precision. The Turkish, Syrian, and Iraqi scales should remain what they are...\" (translated in Maalouf 2002, p. 220). Both in modern practice, and based on the evidence from recorded music over the course of the last century, there are several differently tuned \"E\"s in between the E-flat and E-natural of the Western Chromatic scale, depending on the maqam or jins in use, and depending on the region.\n\nMusicians and teachers refer to these in-between notes as \"quarter-tones\" (\"half-flat\" or \"half-sharp\") for ease of nomenclature, but perform and teach the exact values of intonation in each jins or maqam by ear. It should also be added, in reference to Touma's comment above, that these \"quarter-tones\" are not used everywhere in the maqamat: in practice, Arabic music does not modulate to 12 different tonic areas like the Well-Tempered Klavier, and so the most commonly used \"quarter tones\" are on E (between E-flat and E-natural), A, B, D, F (between F-natural and F-sharp) and C.\n\nThe prototypical Arab ensemble in Egypt and Syria is known as the takht, which includes, (or included at different time periods) instruments such as the 'oud, qanún, rabab, nay, violin (which was introduced in the 1840s or 50s), riq and dumbek. In Iraq, the traditional ensemble, known as the chalghi, includes only two melodic instruments—the jowza (similar to the rabab but with four strings) and santur—with riq and dumbek.\n\n\"Arab folk dances\" also referred to as \"Oriental dance\", \"Middle-Eastern dance and\" \"Eastern dance\", refers to the traditional folk dances of the Arabs in Arab world (Middle East and North Africa). The term \"Arabic dance\" is often associated with the belly dance. However, there are many styles of traditional Arab dance, and many of them have a long history. These may be folk dances, or dances that were once performed as rituals or as entertainment spectacle, and some may have been performed in the imperial court. Coalescence of oral storytelling, poetry recital, and performative music and dance as long-standing traditions in Arab history. Among the best-known of the Arab traditional dances are the Belly dance and the Dabke.\n\n\"Belly dance\" also referred to as \"Arabic dance\" ( is an Arab expressive dance, which emphasizes complex movements of the torso. Many boys and girls in countries where belly dancing is popular will learn how to do it when they are young. The dance involves movement of many different parts of the body; usually in a circular way.\n\nPrior to the Islamic Era, poetry was regarded as the main means of communication on the Arabian Peninsula. It related the achievements of tribes and defeats of enemies and also served as a tool for propaganda. After the arrival of Islam other forms of communication replaced poetry as the primary form of communication. Imams (preachers) played a role in disseminating information and relating news from the authorities to the people. The suq or marketplace gossip and interpersonal relationships played an important role in the spreading of news, and this form of communication among Arabs continues today. Before the introduction of the printing press Muslims obtained most of their news from the imams at the mosque, friends or in the marketplace. Colonial powers and Christian Missionaries in Lebanon were responsible for the introduction of the printing press. It was not until the 19th century that the first newspapers began to appear, mainly in Egypt and Lebanon, which had the most newspapers per capita.\n\nDuring French rule in Egypt in the time of Napoleon Bonaparte the first newspaper was published, in French. There is debate over when the first Arabic language newspaper was published; according to Arab scholar Abu Bakr, it was \"Al Tanbeeh\" (1800), published in Egypt, or it was \"Junral Al Iraq\" (1816), published in Iraq, according to other researchers. In the mid-19th century the Turkish Empire dominated the first newspapers. In the Northern African countries of Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria the French colonial power built a press link between mainland countries.\n\nThe first newspapers were limited to official content and included accounts of relations with other countries and civil trials. In the following decades Arab media blossomed due to journalists mainly from Syria and Lebanon, who were intellectuals and published their newspapers without the intention of making a profit. Because of the restrictions by most governments, these intellectuals were forced to flee their respective countries but had gained a following and because of their popularity in this field of work other intellectuals began to take interest in the field.\nThe first émigré Arab newspaper, \"Mar’at al Ahwal\", was published in Turkey in 1855 by Rizqallah Hassoun Al Halabi. It was criticized by the Ottoman Empire and shut down after only one year. Intellectuals in the Arab world soon realized the power of the press. Some countries' newspapers were government-run and had political agendas in mind. Independent newspapers began to spring up which expressed opinions and were a place for the public to out their views on the state. Illiteracy rates in the Arab world played a role in the formation of media, and due to the low reader rates newspapers were forced to get political parties to subsidize their publications, giving them input to editorial policy.\n\nFreedoms that have branched through the introduction of the Internet in Middle East are creating a stir politically, culturally, and socially. There is an increasing divide between the generations. The Arab world is in conflict internally. The internet has brought economic prosperity and development, but bloggers have been incarcerated all around in the Middle East for their opinions and views on their regimes, the same consequence which was once given to those who publicly expressed themselves without anonymity. But the power of the internet has provided also a public shield for these bloggers since they have the ability to engage public sympathy on such a large scale. This is creating a dilemma that shakes the foundation of Arab culture, government, religious interpretation, economic prosperity, and personal integrity.\n\nEach country or region in the Arab world has varying colloquial languages which are used for everyday speech, yet its presence in the media world is discouraged. Prior to the establishment of Modern Standard Arabic (MSA), during the 19th century, the language of the media was stylized and resembled literary language of the time, proving to be ineffective in relaying information. Currently MSA is used by Arab media, including newspapers, books and some television stations, in addition to all formal writing. Vernaculars are however present in certain forms of media including satires, dramas, music videos and other local programs.\n\nJournalism ethics is a system of values that determines what constitutes \"good\" and \"bad\" journalism. A system of media values consists of and is constructed by journalists' and other actors' decisions about issues like what is \"newsworthy,\" how to frame the news, and whether to observe topical \"red lines.\" Such a system of values varies over space and time, and is embedded within the existing social, political, and economic structures in a society. William Rugh states, \"There is an intimate, organic relationship between media institutions and society in the way that those institutions are organized and controlled. Neither the institution nor the society in which it functions can be understood properly without reference to the other. This is certainly true in the Arab world.\" Media values in the Arab world therefore vary between and within countries. In the words of Lawrence Pintak and Jeremy Ginges, “The Arab media are not a monolith.”\n\nJournalists in the Arab world hold many of the same values with their news generation as do journalists in the Western world. Journalists in the Arab world often aspire to Western norms of objectivity, impartiality, and balance. Kuldip Roy Rampal's study of journalist training programs in North Africa leads him to the conclusion that, \"the most compelling dilemma faced by professional journalists, increasingly graduates of journalism degree programs, in the four Maghreb states is how to reconcile their preference for press freedom and objectivity with constraints imposed by political and legal factors that point to a pro-government journalism.\" Iyotika Ramaprasad and Naila Nabil Hamdy state, “A new trend toward objectivity and impartiality as a value in Arab journalism seems to be emerging, and the values of Arab and Western journalism in this field have started to converge.” Further, many journalists in the Arab world express their desires for the media to become a fourth estate akin to the media in the West. In a survey of 601 journalists in the Arab world, 40% of them viewed investigation of the government as part of their job.\n\nImportant differences between journalists in the Arab world and their Western counterparts are also apparent. Some journalists in the Arab world see no conflict between objectivity and support for political causes. Ramprasad and Hamdy’s sample of 112 Egyptian journalists gave the highest importance to supporting Arabism and Arab values, which included injunctions such as “defend Islamic societies, traditions and values” and “support the cause of the Palestinians.” Sustaining democracy through “examining government policies and decisions critically,” ranked a close second. This view is further endorsed in Kirat’s survey where 65 percent of Algerian journalists agreed that the task for the press is to \"help achieve the goals and objectives of development plans.\nSuch an approach to media fits within the larger scope of development communication and journalism. The extent to which professional and political aims conflict is a subject of study for scholars of the Arab world's media.\n\nOther journalists reject the notion of media ethics altogether because they see it as a mechanism of control. Kai Hafez states, “Many governments in the Arab world have tried to hijack the issue of media ethics and have used it as yet another controlling device, with the result that many Arab journalists, while they love to speak about the challenges of their profession, hate performing under the label of media ethics.”\n\nHistorically, news in the Arab world was used to inform, guide, and publicize the actions of political practitioners rather than being just a consumer product. The power of news as political tool was discovered in the early 19th century, with the purchase of shares from Le Temps a French newspaper by Ismail the grandson of Muhammad Ali. Doing so allowed Ismail to publicize his policies. Arab Media coming to modernity flourished and with it its responsibilities to the political figures that have governed its role. Ami Ayalon argues in his history of the press in the Arab Middle East that, “Private journalism began as an enterprise with very modest objectives, seeking not to defy authority but rather to serve it, to collaborate and coexist cordially with it. The demand for freedom of expression, as well as for individual political freedom, a true challenge to the existing order, came only later, and hesitantly at that, and was met by a public response that can best be described as faint.\" \nMedia researchers stress that the moral and social responsibility of newspeople dictates that they should not agitate public opinion, but rather should keep the status quo. It is also important to preserve national unity by not stirring up ethnic or religious conflict.\nThe values of media in the Arab world have started to change with the emergence of “new media.\" Examples of new media include news websites, blogs, and satellite television stations like Al Arabiya. The founding of the Qatari Al Jazeera network in 1996 especially affected media values. Some scholars believe that the network has blurred the line between private- and state- run news. Mohamed Zayani and Sofiane Sabraoui state, “Al Jazeera is owned by the government, but has an independent editorial policy; it is publicly funded, but independent minded.” The Al Jazeera media network espouses a clear mission and strategy, and was one of the first news organizations in the Arab world to release a code of ethics. Despite its government ties, it seeks to “give no priority to commercial or political over professional consideration” and to “cooperate with Arab and international journalistic unions and associations to defend freedom of the press.” With a motto of “the view and the other view,” it purports to “present the diverse points of view and opinions without bias and partiality.” It has sought to fuse these ostensibly Western media norms with a wider “Arab orientation,” evocative of the social responsibility discussed by scholars such as Noha Mellor above.\n\nSome more recent assessments of Al Jazeera have criticized it for a lack of credibility in the wake of the Arab Spring. Criticism has come from within the Arab Middle East, including from state governments. Independent commentators have criticized its neutrality vis-a-vis the Syrian Civil War.\n\nMedia values are not the only variable that affects news output in Arab society. Hafez states, “The interaction of political, economic, and social environments with individual and collective professional ethics is the driving force behind journalism.” In most Arab countries, newspapers cannot be published without a government-issued license. Most Arab countries also have press laws, which impose boundaries on what can and cannot be said in print.\n\nCensorship plays a significant role in journalism in the Arab world. Censorship comes in a variety of forms: Self-censorship, Government Censorship (governments struggle to control through technological advances in ex. the internet), Ideology/Religious Censorship, and Tribal/Family/Alliances Censorship. Because Journalism in the Arab world comes with a range of dangers – journalists throughout the Arab world can be imprisoned, tortured, and even killed in their line of work – self-censorship is extremely important for many Arab journalists. A study conducted by the Center for Defending Freedom of Journalists (CDFJ) in Jordan, for example, found that the majority of Jordanian journalists exercise self-censorship. CPJ found that 34 journalists were killed in the region in 2012, 72 were imprisoned on December 1, 2012, and 126 were in exile from 2007 to 2012.\n\nA related point is that media owners and patrons have effects on the values of their outlets. Newspapers in the Arab world can be divided into three categories: government owned, partisan owned, and independently owned. Newspaper, radio, and television patronization in the Arab world has heretofore been primarily a function of governments. \"Now, newspaper ownership has been consolidated in the hands of powerful chains and groups. Yet, profit is not the driving force behind the launching of newspapers; publishers may establish a newspaper to ensure a platform for their political opinions, although it is claimed that this doesn’t necessarily influence the news content\". In the Arab world, as far as content is concerned, news is politics. Arab states are intimately involved in the economic well-being of many Arab news organizations so they apply pressure in several ways, most notably through ownership or advertising.\n\nSome analysts hold that cultural and societal pressures determine journalists' news output in the Arab world. For example, to the extent that family reputation and personal reputation are fundamental principles in Arab civilization, exposes of corruption, examples of weak moral fiber in governors and policy makers, and investigative journalism may have massive consequences. In fact, some journalists and media trainers in the Arab world nevertheless actively promote the centrality of investigative journalism to the media’s larger watchdog function. In Jordan, for example, where the degree of government and security service interference in the media is high, non-governmental organizations such as the Center for Defending the Freedom of Journalists (CDFJ) and Arab Reporters for Investigative Journalism (ARIJ) train journalists to undertake investigative journalism projects.\n\nSome Saudi journalists stress the importance of enhancing Islam through the media. The developmental role of media was acknowledged by an overwhelming majority of Saudi journalists, while giving the readers what they want was not regarded as a priority. However, journalism codes, as an important source for the study of media values, complicate this notion. Kai Hafez states, “The possible hypothesis that Islamic countries might not be interested in ‘truth’ and would rather propagate ‘Islam’ as the single truth cannot be verified completely because even a code that limits journalists’ freedom of expression to Islamic objectives and values, the Saudi Arabian code, demands that journalists present real facts.” In addition, Saudi journalists operate in an environment in which anti-religious talk is likely to be met with censorship.\n\nPatterns of consumption also affect media values. People in the Arab world rely on newspapers, magazines, radio, television, and the Internet to differing degrees and to meet a variety of ends. For Rugh, the proportion of radio and television receivers to Arab populations relative to UNESCO minimum standards suggests that radio and television are the most widely consumed media. He estimates that television reaches well over 100 million people in the region, and this number has likely grown since 2004. By contrast, he supposes that Arab newspapers are designed more for elite-consumption on the basis of their low circulation. He states, \"Only five Arab countries have daily newspapers which distribute over 60,000 copies and some have dailies only in the under-10,000 range. Only Egypt has dailies which distribute more than a half million copies.\" Estimating newspaper readership is complicated, however, by the fact that single newspapers can change hands many times in a day. Finally, the internet continues to be a fairly common denominator in Arab societies. A report by the Dubai School of Government and Bayt.com estimates that there are more than 125 million Internet users in the region, and that more than 53 million of them actively use social media. They caution, however, that while \"the internet has wide-ranging benefits, these benefits do not reach large segments of societies in the Arab region. The digital divide remains a significant barrier for many people. In many parts of the Arab world levels of educational attainment, economic activity, standards of living and internet costs still determine a person's access to life-changing technology. Further, according to Leo Gher and Hussein Amin, the Internet and other modern telecommunication services may serve to counter the effects of private and public ownership and patronage of the press. They state, \"Modern international telecommunications services now assist in the free flow of information, and neither inter-Arab conflicts nor differences among groups will affect the direct exchange of services provided by global cyberspace networks.\"\n\nIn most Arab countries, magazines cannot be published without a government-issued license. Magazines in the Arab world, like many of the magazines in the Western world, are geared towards women. However, the number of magazines in the Arab world is significantly smaller than that of the Western world. The Arab world is not as advertisement driven as the Western world. Advertisers fuel the funding for most Western magazines to exist. Thus, a lesser emphasis on advertisement in the Arab world plays into the low number of magazines.\n\nThere are 90 private radio stations throughout the Middle East and North Africa. (list of private radio stations in the Arab world)\n\nArab radio broadcasting began in the 1920s, but only a few Arab countries had their own broadcasting stations before World War II. After 1945, most Arab states began to create their own radio broadcasting systems, although it was not until 1970, when Oman opened its radio transmissions, that every one of them had its own radio station.\n\nAmong Arab countries, Egypt has been a leader in radio broadcasting from the beginning. Broadcasting began in Egypt in the 1920s with private commercial radio. In 1947, however, the Egyptian government declared radio a government monopoly and began investing in its expansion.\n\nBy the 1970s, Egyptian radio had fourteen different broadcast services with a total air time of 1,200 hours per week. Egypt is ranked third in the world among radio broadcasters. The programs were all government controlled, and much of the motivation for the government's investment in radio was due to the aspirations of President Gamal Abdel Nasser to be the recognized leader of the Arab world.\n\nEgypt's \"Voice of the Arabs\" station, which targeted other Arab countries with a constant stream of news and political features and commentaries, became the most widely heard station in the region. Only after the June 1967 war, when it was revealed that this station had misinformed the public about what was happening, did it lose some credibility; nevertheless it retained a large listenership.\n\nOn the Arabian Peninsula, radio was slower to develop. In Saudi Arabia, radio broadcasts started in the Jidda-Mecca area in 1948, but they did not start in the central or eastern provinces until the 1960s. Neighboring Bahrain had radio by 1955, but Qatar, Abu Dhabi, and Oman did not start indigenous radio broadcasting until nearly a quarter century later.\n\nAlmost all television channels in the Arab world were government-owned and strictly controlled prior to the 1990s. In the 1990s the spread of satellite television began changing television in Arab countries. Often noted as a pioneer, al-Jazeera represents a shift towards a more professional approach to news and current affairs. Financed by the Qatar government and established in 1996, al-Jazeera was the first Arabic channel to deliver extensive live news coverage, going so far as to send reporters to \"unthinkable\" places like Israel. Breaking the mold in more ways than one, al-Jazeera’s discussion programs raised subjects that had long been prohibited. However, in 2008, Egypt and Saudi Arabia called for a meeting to approve a charter to regulate satellite broadcasting. The Arab League Satellite Broadcasting Charter (2008) lays out principles for regulating satellite broadcasting in the Arab world.\n\nOther satellite channels:\n\n\n\"Across the Middle East, new television stations, radio stations and websites are sprouting like incongruous electronic mushrooms in what was once a media desert. Meanwhile newspapers are aggressively probing the red lines that have long contained them\". Technology is playing a significant role in the changing Arab media. Pintak furthers, \"Now, there are 263 free-to-air (FTA) satellite television stations in the region, according to Arab Advisors Group. That’s double the figure as of just two years ago\". Freedom of speech and money have little to do with why satellite television is sprouting up everywhere. Instead, \"A desire for political influence is probably the biggest factor driving channel growth. But ego is a close second\". The influence of the West is very apparent in Arab media, especially in television. Arab soap operas and the emerging popularity of reality TV are evidence of this notion.\n\n\"In the wake of controversy triggered by \"Super Star\" and \"Star Academy\", some observers have hailed reality television as a harbinger of democracy in the Arab world.\" \"Star Academy\" in Lebanon is strikingly similar to \"American Idol\" mixed with \"The Real World\". \"Star Academy\" began in 2003 in the Arab world. \"Reality television entered Arab public discourse in the last five years at a time of significant turmoil in the region: escalating violence in Iraq, contested elections in Egypt, the struggle for women’s political rights in Kuwait, political assassinations in Lebanon, and the protracted Arab-Israeli Conflict. This geo-political crisis environment that currently frames Arab politics and Arab-Western relations is the backdrop to the controversy surrounding the social and political impact of Arab reality television, which assumes religious, cultural or moral manifestations.\"\n\nMost Arab countries did not produce films before nation independence. In Sudan, Libya, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates, production is even now confined to short films or television. Bahrain witnessed the production of its first and only full-length feature film in 1989. In Jordan national production has barely exceeded half a dozen feature films. Algeria and Iraq have produced approximately 100 films each, Morocco around seventy, Tunisia around 130, and Syria some 150. Lebanon, owing to an increased production during the 1950s and 1960s, has made some 180 feature films. Only Egypt has far exceeded these countries, with a production of more than 2,500 feature films (all meant for cinema, not television). As with most aspects of Arab media, censorship plays a large art of creating and distributing films. \"In most Arab countries, film projects must first pass a state committee, which grants or denies permission to shoot. Once this permission is obtained, another official license, a so-called visa, is necessary in order to exploit the film commercially. This is normally approved by a committee of the Ministry of Information or a special censorship authority\". The most significant taboo topics under state supervision are consistent with those of other forms of media: religion, sex, and politics.\n\nThe Internet in the Arab world is powerful source of expression and information as it is in other places in the world. While some believe that it is the harbinger of freedom in media to the Middle East, others think that it is a new medium for censorship. Both are true. The Internet has created a new arena for discussion and the dissemination of information for the Arab world just as it has in the rest of the world. The youth in particular are accessing and utilizing the tools. People are encouraged and enabled to join in political discussion and critique in a manner that was not previously possible. Those same people are also discouraged and blocked from those debates as the differing regimes try to restrict access based on religious and state objections to certain material.\n\nThis was posted on a website operated by the Muslim Brotherhood:\nThe internet in the Arab world has a snowball effect; now that the snowball is rolling, it can no longer be stopped. Getting bigger and stronger, it is bound to crush down all obstacles. In addition, to the stress caused by the Arab bloggers, a new forum was opened for Arab activists; Facebook. Arab activists have been using Facebook in the utmost creative way to support the democracy movement in the region, a region that has one of the highest rates of repression in the world. Unlike other regions where oppressive countries (like China, Iran and Burma) represent the exception, oppression can be found everywhere in the Arab world. The number of Arab internet users interested in political affairs does not exceed a few thousands, mainly represented by internet activists and bloggers, out of 58 million internet users in the Arab world. As few as they are, they have succeeded in shedding some light on the corruption and repression of the Arab governments and dictatorships.\nPublic Internet use began in the US in the 1980s. Internet access began in the early 1990s in the Arab world, with Tunisia being first in 1991 according to Dr. Deborah L. Wheeler. The years of the Internet's introduction in the various Arab countries are reported differently. Wheeler reports that Kuwait joined in 1992, and in 1993, Turkey, Iraq and the UAE came online. In 1994 Jordan joined the Internet, and Saudi Arabia and Syria followed in the late 1990s. Financial considerations and the lack of widespread availability of services are factors in the slower growth in the Arab world, but taking into consideration the popularity of internet cafes, the numbers online are much larger than the subscription numbers would reveal.\n\nThe people most commonly utilizing the Internet in the Arab world are youths. The café users in particular tend to be under 30, single and have a variety of levels of education and language proficiency. Despite reports that use of the internet was curtailed by lack of English skills, Dr. Wheeler found that people were able to search with Arabic. Searching for jobs, the unemployed frequently fill cafes in Egypt and Jordan. They are men and women equally. Most of them chat and they have email. In a survey conducted by Dr. Deborah Wheeler, she found them to almost all to have been taught to use the Internet by a friend or family member. They all felt their lives to have been significantly changed by the use of the Internet. The use of the Internet in the Arab world is very political in the nature of the posts and of the sites read and visited. The Internet has brought a medium to Arabs that allows for a freedom of expression not allowed or accepted before. For those who can get online, there are blogs to read and write and access to worldwide outlets of information once unobtainable. With this access, regimes have attempted to curtail what people are able to read, but the Internet is a medium not as easily manipulated as telling a newspaper what it can or cannot publish. The Internet can be reached via proxy server, mirror, and other means. Those who are thwarted with one method will find 12 more methods around the blocked site. As journalists suffer and are imprisoned in traditional media, the Internet is no different with bloggers regularly being imprisoned for expressing their views for the world to read. The difference is that there is a worldwide audience witnessing this crackdown and watching as laws are created and recreated to attempt to control the vastness of the Internet.\n\nJihadists are using the Internet to reach a greater audience. Just as a simple citizen can now have a worldwide voice, so can a movement. Groups are using the Internet to share video, photos, programs and any kind of information imaginable. Standard media may not report what the Muslim Brotherhood would say on their site. However, for the interested, the Internet is a tool that is utilized with great skill by those who wish to be heard. A file uploaded to 100 sites and placed in multiple forums will reach millions instantly. Information on the Internet can be thwarted, slowed, even redirected, but it cannot be stopped if someone wants it out there on the Internet.\n\nThe efforts by the various regimes to control the information are all falling apart gradually. Those fighting crime online have devised methods of tracking and catching criminals. Unfortunately those same tools are being used to arrest bloggers and those who would just wish to be heard. The Internet is a vast and seemingly endless source of information. Arabs are using it more than perhaps the world is aware and it is changing the media.\n\nSocial loyalty is of great importance in Arab culture. Family is one of the most important aspects of the Arab society. While self-reliance, individuality, and responsibility are taught by Arabic parents to their children, family loyalty is the greatest lesson taught in Arab families. \"Unlike the extreme individualism we see in North America (every person for him or herself, individual rights, families living on their own away from relatives, and so on), Arab society emphasizes the importance of the group. Arab culture teaches that the needs of the group are more important than the needs of one person.\" In the Bedouin tribes of Saudi Arabia, \"intense feelings of loyalty and dependence are fostered and preserved\" by the family. Margaret Nydell, in her book \"Understanding Arabs: A Guide for Modern Times\", writes \"family loyalty and obligations take precedence over loyalty to friends or demands of a job.\" She goes on to state that \"members of a family are expected to support each other in disputes with outsiders. Regardless of personal antipathy among relatives, they must defend each other’s honor, counter criticism, and display group cohesion...\" Of all members of the family, however, the most revered member is the mother.\n\nFamily honor is one of the most important characteristics in the Arab family. According to Margaret Nydell, social exchanges between men and women happen very seldom outside of the work place. Men and women refrain from being alone together. They have to be very careful in social situations because those interactions can be interpreted negatively and cause gossip, which can tarnish the reputation of women. Women are able to socialize freely with other women and male family members, but have to have family members present to socialize with men that are not part of the family. These conservative practices are put into place to protect the reputation of women. Bad behavior not only affects women but her family’s honor. Practices differ between countries and families. Saudi Arabia has stricter practices when it comes to men and women and will even require marriage documents if a woman and man are seen together alone.\n\nArab values\nOne of the characteristics of Arabs is generosity and they usually show it by being courteous with each other. Some of the most important values for Arabs are honor and loyalty. Margaret Nydell, in her book \"Understanding Arabs: A Guide for Modern Times' \" says that Arabs can be defined as, humanitarian, loyal and polite. Tarek Mahfouz explains in the book \"Arab Culture\" that it is common for Arabs in dinner situations to insist on guests to eat the last piece of the meal or to fight over who will pay the bill at a restaurant for generosity.\"\n\nFemale Infanticide \nLike many societies around the world, the preference for a son is much higher than that for a daughter in the Arab world. In pre-Islamic Arabia, husbands would go as far as burying female infants alive because of the shame it caused them among their peers. Women are typically seen as a burden whereas men represent honor and dignity to a family. Muhammad revealed a verse which deals with this phenomenon. It says, \"And God will ask the female infant who had been buried alive (\"mau'udda\") for what wrongdoing was she killed.\" This practice is long gone in the Arab world, but the sentiment of having a son over a daughter still resides and women are still subject to divorce for failure to give birth to a son as a first born child.\n\nThe Pan Arab Games are a regional multi-sport event held between nations from the Arab world. The first Games were held in 1953 in Alexandria, Egypt. Intended to be held every four years since, political turmoil as well as financial difficulties has made the event an unstable one. Women were first allowed to compete in 1985. By the 11th Pan Arab Games, the number of countries participating reached all 22 members of the Arab League, with roughly over 8,000 Arab athletes participating, it was considered the largest in the Games History, with the Doha Games in 2011 expected to exceed that number.\n\nWomen around the world have struggled in the professional world of sports since it has been something that has been dominated by men. When looking at the Arab world currently there is an emergence of Arab women playing sports, something that for the most part is not much discussed but is of great importance. Muslim Arab women are taking part in playing on futsal, football (soccer), softball, basketball, and various other teams. Some women are participating in boxing, archery, running, swimming, tennis and other individual sports. Because more Muslim women are playing sports, sportswear is being developed so that a woman can still be able to participate in sports like swimming without limiting their participation due to the way they choose to dress. Although women have received great support from family members in playing sports, there is still much criticism towards female athletes in the Arab world. Many conservative men have criticized that sports and women do not go together and that a woman would not be able to wear her headscarf or should not wear shorts while playing sports.\n\nSome people do not see Islam and women playing sports as being compatible. Despite the various criticisms Arab women around the Arab world face, it has not stopped the popularity of women’s participation in sports. Football is one of the sports that has exploded in popularity with women in the Arab world. With the coming of the Women’s World Cup in 2011, there is a Women’s Football Cup Arabia occurring in Bahrain which is bringing together women’s teams from all over the Arab world to play in competition. There are teams in Syria, Palestine, Lebanon, Egypt, Algeria, Morocco, Libya and Jordan and events like this show that, as said by Dr. Sahar al Hawary who is a member of FIFA’s Women’s Committee from Egypt, \"women's football can be promoted at the highest level and watched in the Arab world... women's football can be promoted at the highest level and watched in the Arab world\".\n\nArab women are also challenging and becoming a part of sports that even outside of the Arab world are considered not for women. There are Arab women who are participating in boxing, even reaching international competition levels. Arab women are not limiting themselves and although they receive criticism from some of society, their families and communities have been very supportive while still considering themselves conservative and faithful to Islam. These women and their families are challenging the very narrow view that society at times has of the capabilities of women and have inspired women all around the Arab world to not limit themselves. Despite this occurring in the Arab world, what these Arab female athletes are doing is an inspiration to women all over the globe.\n\nOriginally, the Arabs of the Arabian Peninsula relied heavily on a diet of dates, wheat, barley, rice and meat, with little variety, with a heavy emphasis on yoghurt products, such as leben (لبن) (yoghurt without butterfat). Arabian cuisine today is the result of a combination of richly diverse cuisines, spanning the Arab world and incorporating Levantine, Egyptian, and others. It has also been influenced to a degree by the cuisines of India, Turkey, Berber, and others. In an average Arab household in the Persian Gulf area, a visitor might expect a dinner consisting of a very large platter, shared commonly, with a vast mountain of rice, incorporating lamb or chicken, or both, as separate dishes, with various stewed vegetables, heavily spiced, sometimes with a tomato sauce. Most likely, there would be several other items on the side, less hearty. Tea would certainly accompany the meal, as it is almost constantly consumed. Coffee would be included as well.\n\nTea is a very important drink in the Arab world, it is usually served with breakfast, after lunch, and with dinner. For Arabs tea is a hospitality drink that is served to guests. It is also common for Arabs to drink tea with dates.\n\nArab dress for men ranges from the traditional flowing robes to blue jeans, T-shirts and business suits. The robes allow for maximum circulation of air around the body to help keep it cool, and the head dress provides protection from the sun. At times, Arabs mix the traditional garb with clothes.\n\nThobe\nIn the Arab states of the Persian Gulf men usually wear their national dress that is called \"thobe\" but can be also called \"Dishdasha\" (Kuwait) or \"Kandoura\" (UAE). \"Thobes\" differ slightly from state to state within the Gulf, but the basic ones are white. This is the traditional attire that Arabs wear in formal occasions.\n\nHeaddress\nThe male headdress is also known as Keffiyeh. Headdress pattern might be an indicator of which tribe, clan, or family the wearer comes from. However, this is not always the case. While in one village, a tribe or clan might have a unique headdress, in the next town over an unrelated tribe or clan might wear the same headdress.\n\n\nGuthra (headdress) in the Arab states of the Persian Gulf\nThe male headdress in the Gulf states is called Guthra and it is different in each country (size and shape). It is usually worn with a black cord called \"agal\" that keeps the guthra on the wearer's head.\n\nAdherence to traditional dress varies across Arab societies. Saudi Arabia is more traditional, while Egypt is less so. Traditional Arab dress features the full length body cover (abaya, jilbāb, or chador) and veil (hijab). Women are only required to wear \"abayas\" in Saudi Arabia. In most countries, like Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Jordan, Syria, Palestine and Egypt, the veil is not prevalent.\n\n"}
{"id": "14516361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14516361", "title": "Beehive Design Collective", "text": "Beehive Design Collective\n\nThe Beehive Design Collective is a volunteer-driven non-profit arts organization that uses graphical media as educational tools to communicate stories of resistance to corporate globalization. The purpose of the group, based in Machias, Maine, is to \"Cross-pollinate the grassroots\" by creating collaborative, anti-copyright images that can be used as educational and organizing tools. The most recognizable of these images are large format pen and ink posters, which seek to provide a visual alternative to deconstruction of complicated social and political issues ranging from globalization, free trade, militarism, resource extraction, and biotechnology.\n\nThe Collective creates graphic campaigns addressing diverse geo- and socio-political issues. The illustrations are informed and developed through extensive research. The most recent campaign resulted from travel to Mexico and interviews of a broad spectrum of people. The group adheres to self-imposed rules during their campaign production, including absence of literal human depictions, use of cross-cultural imagery, and avoidance of cultural appropriation.\n\nThe current trilogy in progress details globalization in the western hemisphere through a series of three graphics.\nThe Collective's educational work involves storytelling, international lecture circuits using giant reproductions of their posters as storytelling aids. \"Picture lectures\" feature a 30-feet high graphic and a fabric flipbook/storybook. Audiences are led through a two-hour interactive, conversational presentation. \n\nOne of the Beehive's goals in their graphic distribution is to have 50% of each print run distributed to communities in the global south free of charge. The remaining half are distributed internationally for donations. Posters are distributed at a wide range of venues, events, college campuses and academic events.\n\nAll of the Beehive Collective's materials are distributed as anti-copyright, and their production is encouraged for non-profit, non-commercial use to assist in publications and productions. The black and white imagery is designed to facilitate ease of reproduction. The Beehive distributes free clip-art digital imagery via their website and graphic CD-ROMs distributed from their webstore.\n\n\nSince the year 2000, the Collective has been engaged in the restoration of the Machias Valley Grange Hall, located in Machias, Maine., built in 1904. The restoration labor was sourced from visiting volunteers. The building was initially used as the Collective's center of its stone mosaics program.\n\nAnnually, the Collective throws a no-cost dress-up dance party of immense proportions called the \"Blackfly Ball\". There are ongoing events such as a weekly Open Mic night and annual Halloween celebration.\n\nIn 2007, the Machias Valley Grange Hall was placed onto the National Register of Historic Places. The group also received the Maine State Historic Preservation Excellence Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "25378373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25378373", "title": "Blind Man's Bluff (Goya)", "text": "Blind Man's Bluff (Goya)\n\nBlind Man's Bluff (Spanish: La gallina ciega) is one of the Rococo oil-on-linen cartoons produced by the Spanish artist Francisco de Goya for tapestries for the Royal Palace of El Pardo. The work shows boys and girls playing the popular pastime \"blind man's buff\" with one figure in the middle blindfolded and holding a large spoon while trying to entice others dancing around him in a circle.\n\nThe children are dressed in the attire of Spanish aristocrats. Some wear velvet jackets and feather headdresses.\n\nThe picture is an example of Goya's Rococo period, and is typically lively and with a soft color scheme of pink and yellow in the skirts of women and luminous background scenery. As with many of his tapestry cartoons, it captures a charming moment of life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11326983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11326983", "title": "Brazilian art", "text": "Brazilian art\n\nThe creation of art in the geographic area now known as Brazil begins with the earliest records of its human habitation. The original inhabitants of the land, pre-Columbian Indian peoples, produced various forms of art; specific cultures like the Marajoara left sophisticated painted pottery. This area was colonized by Portugal in the 16th century and given the modern name of Brazil. Brazilian art is most commonly used as an umbrella term for art created in this region post Portuguese colonization.\n\nThe oldest known art in Brazil is the cave paintings in Serra da Capivara National Park in the state of Piauí, dating back to c. 13,000 BC. More recent examples have been found in Minas Gerais and Goiás, showing geometric patterns and animal forms.\n\nOne of the most sophisticated kinds of Pre-Columbian artifact found in Brazil is the sophisticated Marajoara pottery (c. 800–1400 AD), from cultures flourishing on Marajó Island and around the region of Santarém, decorated with painting and complex human and animal reliefs. Statuettes and cult objects, such as the small carved-stone amulets called muiraquitãs, also belong to these cultures. The Mina and Periperi cultures, from Maranhão and Bahia, produced interesting though simpler pottery and statuettes.\n\nIn the beginning of the 21st century, the ancient Indian traditions of body painting, pottery, cult statuettes, and feather art are still being cultivated by the remaining Indian peoples.\n\nThe first Western artists active in Brazil were Roman Catholic priests who came from Portugal to “civilize” the Indians. Jesuits assumed an important role in this process, with their many missionary establishments called \"Reductions\" teaching religion through art in the form of sacred plays, music, statuary, and painting. José de Anchieta was the first important playwright; Agostinho de Jesus and Agostinho da Piedade produced the first known sculptures; Belchior Paulo, João Felipe Bettendorff, Ricardo do Pilar, and a few others did the first paintings; while Francisco de Vaccas and Pedro da Fonseca started organizing the musical life of the infant colony. Basílio da Gama and Gregório de Mattos were the first secular poets. All of them worked under the influence of the Baroque, the dominant style in Brazil until the early 19th century.\n\nThrough the 17th and 18th centuries Baroque art flourished with increasing richness and craftsmanship, mainly in Bahia and Pernambuco along the coast and in some inland regions, reaching the highest levels of originality in Minas Gerais, where a gold rush nurtured a rich and cultured local society. In Minas lived the greatest artists of Brazilian Baroque: painter Manuel da Costa Ataíde and sculptor-architect Aleijadinho. Minas was also the birthplace of a proto-Neoclassical school of music and literature, with composers Lobo de Mesquita and Francisco Gomes da Rocha, and poets Tomás Antônio Gonzaga and Cláudio Manuel da Costa.\n\nOne single event in the 19th century sowed the seeds for a complete renewal in Brazilian visual arts: the arrival of the French Artistic Mission in 1816, which strongly reinforced the Neoclassical style, previously seen in Brazil only in timid attempts. Joachim Lebreton, its leader, proposed the creation of an Academy of Fine Arts, later restructured as the Imperial Academy of Fine Arts. The Academy was the most important center for the visual arts through nearly the whole of the 19th century. It imposed a new concept of artistic education and was the basis for a revolution in Brazilian painting, sculpture, architecture, graphic arts, and crafts. A few decades later, under the personal patronage of Emperor Pedro II, who was engaged in an ambitious national project of modernization, the Academy reached its golden age, fostering the emergence of the first generation of Romantic painters. Victor Meirelles and Pedro Américo, among others, produced lasting visual symbols of national identity. It must be said that in Brazil Romanticism in painting took a peculiar shape, not showing the overwhelming dramaticism, fantasy, violence, or interest in death and the bizarre commonly seen in the European version, and because of its academic and palatial nature all excesses were eschewed.\nMeanwhile, literature too evolved towards a romantic-nationalist school with the works of Casimiro de Abreu and Manuel Antônio de Almeida. Around 1850, a transition began, centered upon Álvares de Azevedo, who was influenced by the poetry of Lord Byron. This second generation of Romantics was obsessed with morbidness and death, and soon after, social commentary could be found in literature, both features not seen in the visual arts. Antônio Castro Alves wrote of the horrors of slavery, and the persecuted Indians were rescued through art by poets and novelists like Antônio Gonçalves Dias and José de Alencar. These trends combined in one of the most important accomplishments of the Romantic era in Brazil: the establishment of a Brazilian national identity based on Indian ancestry and the rich natural environment of the country.\n\nIn music, the 19th century produced only two composers of outstanding talent: neoclassical sacred composer José Maurício Nunes Garcia, for a while music director to the court, and later, Romantic operist Carlos Gomes, the first Brazilian musician to win international acclaim.\n\nIn the late 19th century, Brazilian art became acquainted with Realism. Descriptions of nature and of the people of Brazil's varied regions as well as psychological romances proliferated with João Simões Lopes Neto, Aluísio Azevedo, Euclides da Cunha, and, above all, Machado de Assis, while Almeida Junior, Pedro Weingärtner, Oscar Pereira da Silva, and other Realist painters depicted folk types and the distinctive colors and light of Brazilian landscape.\n\nThe beginning of the 20th century saw a struggle between old schools and modernist trends. The Week of Modern Art festival, held in São Paulo in 1922, was received with fiery criticism by conservative sectors of the society, but it was a landmark in the history of Brazilian art. It included plastic arts exhibitions, lectures, concerts, and the reading of poems. Due to the radicalism (for the times) of some of their poems and music, the artists were vigorously booed and pelted by the audience, and the press and art critics in general were strong in their condemnation. However, those artists are now seen as the founders of Modern art in Brazil. Modernist literature and theory of art were represented by Oswald de Andrade, Sérgio Milliet, Menotti del Picchia, and Mário de Andrade, whose revolutionary novel \"Macunaíma\" (1928) is one of the founding texts of Brazilian Modernism. Painting was represented by Anita Malfatti, Tarsila do Amaral, Emiliano Di Cavalcanti, Lasar Segall, Vicente do Rego Monteiro; sculpture by Victor Brecheret; and music by Heitor Villa-Lobos, the leader of a new musical nationalism, among many others.\nThe Week not only introduced to a wider public modern, experimental tendencies derived from European Expressionism, Cubism, and Surrealism, but also wanted to make use of national folklore as a basis for an art more relevant to the Brazilian reality, with an enhanced social awareness. This \"cannibalization\" of european movements and transformation into genuine brazilian expression is the motto between the Anthropophagic Manifesto, published by Oswald de Andrade in 1928, that draws parallels between art history and the cannibal rituals of the Tupi people.\n\nHowever, the radicalism of those first Modernists couldn't last for long in a society used to traditional fashions, and the original core members had separated by 1929, pursuing individual paths. What Brazilian art then became was a mix of some important achievements of the Moderns, meaning freedom from the strict academic agenda, with more conventional traits, giving birth in the following generation to a moderate Modernism, best exemplified by painter Cândido Portinari, who was something like the official painter of the Brazilian government in mid-century.\nWithin the group of Brazilian artists, Chico Niedzielski's artwork has been spread all over the country. His work is known to be inspired by Sacred Geometry, breaking the tendency to focus on Brazilian themes and searching for a more universal and atemporal form of Brazilian art.\nThe erosion of radical Modernism in the visual arts in the early 20th century was not reflected in Brazilian literature. Clarice Lispector wrote existentialist novels and developed a highly personal style, filled with stream-of-consciousness and epiphanies. João Guimarães Rosa changed the face of Brazilian literature with his experimental language, and playwright Nelson Rodrigues dealt with crime, prejudice, passion, and sexual pathologies. In the 1950s, painting and sculpture regained strength through Abstractionism, and architecture began also to display advanced features, influenced by Le Corbusier. Its greatest achievement was the urban core of Brasília, designed by urbanist Lúcio Costa and architect Oscar Niemeyer, now a World Heritage Site. \n\nAround the 1960s, the so-called \"modernist\" art movements started giving way to most contemporary means of expression, such as appropriation, political art, Conceptual art and Pop. Right at the turn of the decade, some Brazilian Concrete artists began ditching the traditional \"strictness\" of concrete art in favor of a more phenomenological approach, exploring the relations between the art object and the viewer. Among the primary leaders of this Neo-Concrete movement were the poet Ferreira Gullar, and the visual artists Hélio Oiticica, Lygia Pape and Lygia Clark, this last one internationally cited as one of the most influential artists of the 20th century.\n\nThe Coup d'état of 1964 and subsequential takeaway of civil rights and freedom of expression in Brazil is commonly marked as the shifting point, whence artists such as Cildo Meireles and Rubens Gerchman began creating explicitly political art . Particularly after 1968, when the military government legalized torture, brazilian art was marked by rather radical actions and happenings. The São Paulo Art Biennial, the second oldest art biennial in the world, opened up with most of its walls empty due to a boycott from the artists . In 1970, the exhibit Do Corpo à Terra (\"From Body to Earth\") took place in Belo Horizonte, and included rather shocking actions such as Cildo Meireles setting live chickens on fire in front of a live audience and Artur Barrio ditching blood-soaked packages in a river, giving off the impression that the people who disappeared under the military government had \"reappeared\" in this gruesome fashion.\n\nBrazilian Pop art didn't come without its share of criticism, sometimes adopting an outright rejection of consumer culture instead of the ambivalent, distant criticism of american pop. Waldemar Cordeiro is one of the most expressive artists that began exploring digital art and robotics in its work around the 60s and 70s, while Antonio Dias, Carlos Vergara brought the aethetics of comic books, playing cards and other popular forms of visuality into his work. Hélio Oiticica's \"Tropicália\", a colorful immersive installation piece, incorporated references to the slums of Rio de Janeiro. The title relates to the cultural movement of the same name, that called back to the Antropophagic Manifesto of the 1920s to offer a more tongue-in-cheek perspective on the myths of an exotic and \"wild\" Brazil.\n\nSome artists as: Hélio Oiticica, Lygia Clark, Naza, Cildo Meireles among others, have been featured on the international stage. Brazilian contemporary art and photography are among the most creative in Latin America, growing an international prominence each year with exhibitions and publications. Names like Miguel Rio Branco, Vik Muniz, Sebastião Salgado, Guy Veloso, and others, get strong. \n\n"}
{"id": "28466005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28466005", "title": "Brunaille", "text": "Brunaille\n\nA Brunaille is a painting executed entirely or primarily in shades of brown. Such a painting is described as having been painted \"en brunaille\". \n\n\"Brunaille\" has its roots in 12th century stained glass made for Cistercian monasteries, which prohibited the use of colored art in 1134. However, it was only in the early 17th century that the French term “\"brunaille\"” was coined to describe pictures painted in shades of brown. Brunaille are less common than paintings executed in grey (\"grisaille\"), though more common than those in green (verdaille). \n"}
{"id": "6212202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6212202", "title": "Critical apparatus", "text": "Critical apparatus\n\nThe critical apparatus () is the critical and primary source material that accompanies an edition of a text. A critical apparatus is often a by-product of textual criticism.\n\nMany editions employ a standard format for a critical apparatus, as illustrated by a line from \"Hamlet\", which the Oxford \"Complete Works\" (1988) prints as follows:\n\nThe apparatus for the line might be rendered as:\n\nThe format of the apparatus has several parts:\n\nTo save space, frequently cited sources are usually assigned an abbreviation called a \"siglum\". In Shakespeare editions, F always signifies the First Folio; the second through fourth folios are referred to as F2 through F4 respectively. Similarly, Q1 is the first quarto, Q2 the second quarto, and Q3 the third.\n\nIn the example given, the first folio (F) and the three early quartos (Q1 to Q3) each have a different reading of the line in question. The editors have concluded that all four early sources are corrupt, and instead have adopted a reading suggested by G. R. Hibbard. Other editors of the play may choose a different reading of the line. The apparatus summarizes all of the textual evidence, allowing readers to assess for themselves whether the editor has made the best choice. Sometimes the editor will add a commentary, defending the choice made, explaining why other readings were rejected, or discussing how other editors have treated the passage.\n\nThis format has been used for critical apparatuses of Shakespeare and many other authors. In variorum editions, the apparatus is often placed at the bottom of the page. Sometimes a three-part format is employed, with the main text at the top of the page, textual variants in the middle, and the editor's commentary at the bottom. This remains the most common format for Shakespeare editions, although the Oxford \"Complete Works\" breaks with tradition by putting its critical apparatus in a separately published volume.\n\nIn the United States, bibliographer Fredson Bowers established a tradition of putting the critical apparatus at the back of the book, leaving the edited text clear of apparatus. This has the advantage of leaving the main text uncluttered with editorial details that may not be of interest to the general reader. However, this format is a disadvantage to scholarly readers, who are not able to see all of the textual evidence in one place.\n\nThe first printed edition of the New Testament with \"critical apparatus\", noting variant readings among the manuscripts, was produced by the printer Robert Estienne of Paris in 1550. The Greek text of this edition and of those of Erasmus became known as the \"Textus Receptus\" (Latin for \"received text\"), a name given to it in the Elzevier edition of 1633, which termed it as the text \"nunc ab omnibus receptum\" (\"now received by all\").\n\nThe de facto standard for the representation of critical apparatus in digital scholarly editions is to follow the recommendations of the Text Encoding Initiative. While other formats are also used in digital literary studies this has become the most accepted storage format. \n"}
{"id": "38507979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38507979", "title": "Developmental editing", "text": "Developmental editing\n\nDevelopmental editing is a form of writing support that comes into play before or during the production of a publishable manuscript, especially in the area of non-fiction writing. As explained by Scott Norton in his book \"Developmental editing: a handbook for freelancers, authors, and publishers\", developmental editing involves \"significant structuring or restructuring of a manuscript's discourse\". Developmental editors are a type of language professional.\n\nA developmental editor may guide an author (or group of authors) in conceiving the topic, planning the overall structure, and developing an outline—and may coach authors in their writing, chapter by chapter. This is true developmental editing, but not the most common way of working. More commonly, a developmental editor is engaged only after someone (usually the publisher) decides that the authors' draft requires substantial revision and restructuring. In these cases, developmental editing is a radical form of substantive editing.\n\nIrrespective of when the developmental editor is brought into a writing project, authors retain control over the document and are responsible for providing the content. An editor who creates significant amounts of content is no longer an editor but a contributing author or a ghostwriter.\n\nTextbooks represent one book genre in which developmental editors are involved from the beginning, and often serve as the book's project manager. Their role is fundamental in textbook publishing because it is often the publisher, not the author, who decides on the book's content, scope, and level. Thus, developmental editors are often on staff at scholastic publishing houses. In textbook publishing, the developmental editor may be responsible for creating the outline to guide the author's writing—and may also prepare short parts of text, such as legends, exercises, and supporting materials. Furthermore, the editor manages text length, edits the developing manuscript, and may instruct an artist regarding illustrations.\n\nIn the academic research setting, career advancement and funding depend on the number and quality of published papers. However, not all researchers are naturally skilled writers, especially among those in the hard and clinical sciences, and many do not receive formal training in how to write the specific genre of the research paper. These researchers can benefit from a language professional such as a teacher of academic writing or an authors' editor who provides substantive editing. In extreme cases, when the drafted manuscript does not match the genre and requires substantial restructuring before being able to meet readers' and peer reviewers' expectations, the language professional may offer developmental editing; however certain professional and ethical issues must be considered.\n\nThere are two main situations when developmental editing in the research setting can be useful. First, researchers may recognize their inability to produce a manuscript with reasonable chances of passing peer review in their target journal; they may contact a language professional for assistance and guidance during the writing process. In addition, researchers whose manuscript has suffered multiple rejections from different journals may seek help resolving the complex issues raised by peer reviewers. In both cases, the type of writing support goes beyond author editing and becomes a form of academic mentoring. Mentoring programs using a developmental editing approach to teach scholarly writing skills have been offered, for example, by an international education journal and at a US medical school. Developmental editing is also at the heart of AuthorAID, a program that matches authors from the developing world with experienced scientist mentors and professional editors to improve the dissemination of knowledge from poor countries.\n\nWhether the language professional is an authors' editor, a teacher of academic writing, or a translator, the particularly challenging situation requires developmental editing alongside other writing support services (e.g., education about good writing practices, translation, and linguistic editing). Language professionals who support such novice researcher-authors know to perform editorial—not authorial—duties, so they avoid ghost writing if authorship is not wanted.\n"}
{"id": "27188538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27188538", "title": "Edinburgh Film Guild", "text": "Edinburgh Film Guild\n\nThe Edinburgh Film Guild (EFG) is a film society based in Edinburgh, Scotland. Founded in 1929, it is notable as the oldest continually running film society in the world. Though pre-dated by the original (London) Film Society, founded five years earlier, it has outlasted it, with the Film Society having ceased operation in 1939. The EFG is also of note for having established the Edinburgh International Film Festival in 1947.\n\nAccording to Scottish film theorist and documentarian John Grierson the EFG was of particular importance for promoting a wide view of cinema. Writing in 1951 he commented:\n\n\"The old London Film Society was the first to break from somewhat exclusive attention to the avant-garde and take the longer and harder way of the Russians and more purposive users of the cinema. But it was the Edinburgh Film Guild which completed the movement - as the London Film Society did not - and saw the infinite variety of a Film Society's obligations to all categories of the medium\".\n\nSince 1980 the EFG has been based in the Filmhouse Cinema in Lothian Road, Edinburgh, where it has its clubrooms, offices and cinema.\n\nRun by volunteers on a non-profit basis, the EFG screens films three days a week from late September through to April. The programme is organised on the basis of mini-seasons linked by some common element, of director, performer, country, genre or theme.\n\nSince 2005 the EFG has hosted the bi-annual Edinburgh International Film Audiences Conference.\n\n"}
{"id": "808049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=808049", "title": "George Frederic Watts", "text": "George Frederic Watts\n\nGeorge Frederic Watts, (London 23 February 1817 – 1 July 1904) was an English Victorian painter and sculptor associated with the Symbolist movement. He said \"I paint ideas, not things.\" Watts became famous in his lifetime for his allegorical works, such as \"Hope\" and \"Love and Life\". These paintings were intended to form part of an epic symbolic cycle called the \"House of Life\", in which the emotions and aspirations of life would all be represented in a universal symbolic language.\n\nWatts was born in Marylebone, London on the birthday of George Frederic Handel (after whom he was named), to the second wife of a poor piano-maker. Delicate in health and with his mother dying while he was still young, he was home-schooled by his father in a conservative interpretation of Christianity as well as via the classics such as the \"Iliad.\" The former put him off conventional religion for life, while the latter was a continual influence on his art. He showed artistic promise very early, learning sculpture from the age of 10 with William Behnes, starting to devotedly study the Elgin Marbles (later writing \"It was from them alone that I learned\") and then enrolling as a student at the Royal Academy at the age of 18. He first exhibited at the Academy in 1837. He also began his portraiture career, receiving patronage from his close contemporary Alexander Constantine Ionides, who later came to be a close friend.\n\nHe came to the public eye with a drawing entitled \"Caractacus\", which was entered for a competition to design murals for the new Houses of Parliament at Westminster in 1843. Watts won a first prize in the competition, which was intended to promote narrative paintings on patriotic subjects, appropriate to the nation's legislature. In the end Watts made little contribution to the Westminster decorations, but from it he conceived his vision of a building covered with murals representing the spiritual and social evolution of humanity.\n\nThe prize from the Westminster competition did, however, fund a long visit to Italy from 1843 onwards, where Watts stayed and became friends with the British ambassador Henry Fox, 4th Baron Holland and his wife Augusta at their homes in Casa Feroni and the Villa Careggi. Also while in Italy Watts began producing landscapes and was inspired by Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel and Giotto's Scrovegni Chapel. In 1847, while still in Italy, Watts entered a new competition for the Houses of Parliament with his image of Alfred the Great, \"Alfred Inciting the Saxons to Prevent the Landing of the Danes by Encountering them at Sea\", on a patriotic subject but using Phidean inspiration. Leaving Florence in April 1847 for what was intended to be a brief return to London, he ended up staying. Back in Britain he was unable to obtain a building in which to carry out his plan of a grand fresco based on his Italian experiences, though he did produce a 45 ft by 40 ft fresco on the upper part of the east wall of the Great Hall of Lincoln's Inn entitled \"Justice, A Hemicycle of Lawgivers\" (completed 1859), inspired by Raphael's \"The School of Athens\". In consequence most of his major works are conventional oil paintings, some of which were intended as studies for the House of Life.\n\nIn his studio he met Henry Thoby Prinsep (for 16 years a member of the Council of India) and his wife Sara (née Pattle). Watts thus joined the Prinsep circle of bohemians, including Sara's seven sisters (including Virginia, with whom Watts fell in love but who married Charles, Viscount Eastnor in 1850), and Julia Margaret Cameron. Previously staying at 48 Cambridge Street, and then in Mayfair, in 1850 he helped the Prinseps into a 21-year lease on Little Holland House, and stayed there with them and their salon for the next 21 years. (The building was the dower house on the Hollands' London estate in Kensington, near the house of Lord Leighton.)\n\nOne of only two pupils Watts ever accepted was Henry's son Valentine Cameron Prinsep; the other was John Roddam Spencer Stanhope – both remained friends, but neither became a major artist. While living as tenant at Little Holland House, Watts's epic paintings were exhibited in Whitechapel by his friend the social reformer Canon Samuel Barnett, and he finally received a commission for the Houses of Parliament, completing his \"The Triumph of the Red Cross Knight\" (from \"The Faerie Queene\") in 1852–53. He also took a short trip back to Italy in 1853 (including Venice, where Titian became yet more of an inspiration) and with Charles Thomas Newton to excavate Halicarnassus in 1856–57, via Constantinople and the Greek islands.\n\nIn the 1860s, Watts' work shows the influence of Rossetti, often emphasising sensuous pleasure and rich colour. Among these paintings is a portrait of his young wife, the actress Ellen Terry, who was 30 years his junior – having been introduced by mutual friend Tom Taylor, they married on 20 February 1864, just seven days short of her 17th birthday. When she eloped with another man after less than a year of marriage, Watts was obliged to divorce her. Watts's association with Rossetti and the Aesthetic movement altered during the 1870s, as his work increasingly combined Classical traditions with a deliberately agitated and troubled surface, to suggest the dynamic energies of life and evolution, as well as the tentative and transitory qualities of life. These works formed part of a revised version of the House of Life, influenced by the ideas of Max Müller, the founder of comparative religion. Watts hoped to trace the evolving \"mythologies of the races [of the world]\" in a grand synthesis of spiritual ideas with modern science, especially Darwinian evolution.\nWith the lease on Little Holland House nearing its end and the building soon to be demolished, in the early 1870s he commissioned a new London home nearby from C. R. Cockerell: New Little Holland House (backing onto the estate of Lord Leighton), and acquired a house at Freshwater, Isle of Wight – his friends Julia Margaret Cameron and Lord Tennyson already had homes on the island. To maintain his friendship with the Prinsep family as their children began leaving home, he built The Briary for them near Freshwater, and adopted their relative Blanche Clogstoun. In 1877, his decree nisi from Ellen Terry finally came through, and the Grosvenor Gallery was opened by his friend Coutts Lindsay. This was to prove his ideal venue for the next ten years.\n\nIn 1886, at the age of 69, Watts remarried, to Mary Fraser Tytler, a Scottish designer and potter, then aged 36. In 1891 he bought land near Compton, south of Guildford, in Surrey. The couple named the house \"Limnerslease\" (combining the words \"limner\" or artist with \"leasen\" or glean) and built the Watts Gallery nearby, a museum dedicated to his work – the first (and now the only) purpose-built gallery in Britain devoted to a single artist – which opened in April 1904, shortly before his death, and received a major expansion between 2006 and 2011.\n\nWatts's wife Mary had designed the nearby earlier Watts Mortuary Chapel, which Watts paid for; he also painted a version of \"The All-Pervading\" for the altar only three months before he died. Both Limnerslease and the chapel are now maintained, and the house owned, by the Watts Gallery. In 2016 Watts' studio in the house re-opened, restored as far as possible using photographs from Watts' lifetime, as part of the Watts Gallery, and the main residential section can be visited on a guided tour.\n\nMany of his paintings are owned by Tate Britain – he donated 18 of his symbolic paintings to Tate in 1897, and three more in 1900. Some of these have been loaned to the Watts Gallery in recent years, and are on display there.\n\nRefusing the baronetcy twice offered him by Queen Victoria, he was elected as an Academician to the Royal Academy in 1867 and accepted to be one of the original members of the new Order of Merit (OM) in 1902 – in his own words, on behalf of all English artists. The order was announced in the 1902 Coronation Honours list published on 26 June 1902, and he received the insignia from King Edward VII at Buckingham Palace on 8 August 1902.\n\nIn his late paintings, Watts' creative aspirations mutate into mystical images such as \"The Sower of the Systems\", in which Watts seems to anticipate abstract art. This painting depicts God as a barely visible shape in an energised pattern of stars and nebulae. Some of Watts' other late works also seem to anticipate the paintings of Picasso's Blue Period. He was also admired as a portrait painter. His portraits were of the most important men and women of the day, intended to form a \"House of Fame\". Many of these are now in the collection of the National Portrait Gallery: 17 were donated in 1895, with more than 30 more added subsequently. In his portraits Watts sought to create a tension between disciplined stability and the power of action. He was also notable for emphasising the signs of strain and wear on his sitter's faces. Sitters included Charles Dilke, Thomas Carlyle , James Martineau, and William Morris.\n\nPhysical Energy\n\nAlthough best known as a painter, G F Watts was also a renowned sculptor. He began work on the plaster model for \"Physical Energy\" (Watts Gallery) around 1883 and was still working on it at the time of his death in 1904. In that year the first bronze cast of the work became the artist’s last submission to the Royal Academy’s summer exhibition. It marked a new prominence for the courtyard of Burlington House as a site for dramatic contemporary sculpture, a role continued today by the Annenberg Courtyard.\"Physical Energy\" is an allegory of the human need for new challenges – of our instinct to always be scanning the horizon, looking towards the future. In the artist’s own words, it is ‘a symbol of that restless physical impulse to seek the still unachieved in the domain of material things’.\n\nPhysical Energy was the culmination of Watts’s ambition in the field of public sculpture, embodying the artist’s belief that access to great art would bring immense benefits to the country at large. Having completed a commission for the Duke of Westminster for an equestrian monument to commemorate his ancestor, Hugh Lupus, in 1883 G F Watts set to work on a new plaster model of another horse and rider, without specific reference to any individual. Reinvigorating the rhetoric of the equestrian monument for the modern age, Watts conceived Physical Energy as an allegory of human vitality and humanity’s ceaseless struggle for betterment.\n\nThe plaster model of Physical Energy was part of the artist’s bequest to Watts Gallery upon his death in 1904. The first bronze cast of the model, made in 1902, was exhibited in the courtyard of the Royal Academy in 1904, as part of the annual Summer Exhibition. It then travelled to Cape Town to form part of a memorial to the founder of Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), Cecil Rhodes. In 1907, a posthumous cast was made and sited in Kensington Gardens, London, fulfilling the artist’s intention to gift the work to the British Government, insisting that it should be ‘for the nation’ and displayed ‘somewhere in London’. A third cast, created in 1959, is situated in the grounds of the National Archives of Zimbabwe in Harare.\n\nAn admirer of royalty – he had painted Prince de Joinville and Edward, Prince of Wales – Watts proposed, in 1887, to commemorate the Golden Jubilee of Queen Victoria by creating a Memorial to Heroic Self-Sacrifice to commemorate ordinary people who had died saving the lives of others, and who might otherwise have been forgotten. The scheme was not accepted at that time, but in 1898 Watts was approached by Henry Gamble, the vicar of St Botolph's Aldersgate church. He suggested the memorial could be created in Postman's Park in the City of London.\n\nThe memorial was unveiled in an unfinished state in 1900, consisting of a 50-foot (15 m) wooden loggia designed by Ernest George, sheltering a wall with space for 120 ceramic memorial tiles to be designed and made by William De Morgan. At the time of opening, only four of the memorial tiles were in place. Watts died in 1904, and his widow Mary Watts took over the running of the project.\n\nSeveral reverent biographies of Watts were written shortly after his death. With the emergence of Modernism, however, his reputation declined. Virginia Woolf's comic play \"Freshwater\" portrays him in a satirical manner, an approach also adopted by Wilfred Blunt, former curator of the Watts Gallery, in his irreverent 1975 biography \"England's Michelangelo\". In his 1988 book on Ruskin, the art critic Peter Fuller emphasised Watts's spiritual and stylistic importance, also noting that late post-symbolist works such as \"The Sower of the Systems\" \"stretched beyond the brink of abstraction\". On the centenary of his death Veronica Franklin Gould published \"G.F. Watts: The Last Great Victorian\", a positive study of his life and work.\n\nThe composer Charles Villiers Stanford wrote his Sixth Symphony \"In Memoriam G. F. Watts\". It was composed in 1905 and first performed on 18 January 1906 in London under Stanford's direction. The four movements, although not having a detailed programme, are inspired by several works of art by Watts.\n\nLiterary references to Watts and his work include Elizabeth Taylor's 1953 novel \"Angel\", where a picture by Watts is donated to a provincial museum by the protagonist, and mention of Watts' painting \"Progress\" in \"Bella Donna\" by Robert Hichens (1909, p. 34). Watts features (not altogether favourably) as a character in Lynne Truss's comic novel \"Tennyson's Gift\" (1996).\n\n\n, with eight reproductions in colour. (by William Loftus Hare)\n"}
{"id": "15231165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15231165", "title": "Hainteny", "text": "Hainteny\n\nHainteny (pronounced , Malagasy for \"knowledge of words\") is a traditional form of Malagasy oral literature and poetry, involving heavy use of metaphor. It is associated primarily with the Merina people of Madagascar. In its use of metaphor and allusion it resembles another type of poetry, the Malay pantun, and Fox suggests \"it seems likely the Merina brought with them a Malayo-Polynesian poetic tradition\" to Madagascar. The Ibonia, an epic poem related for centuries in different versions across Madagascar, reflects the value placed on the linguistic skills celebrated in the hainteny tradition, and offers insight into the diverse mythologies and beliefs of traditional Malagasy communities. \n\nCollections of hainteny were first gathered in print form on the orders of Queen Ranavalona I in the 19th century. The French writer Jean Paulhan, who stayed in Madagascar from 1908 to 1910, made an intensive study of the hainteny and published a book of translations in 1913.\n\nHainteny often incorporates ohabolana (proverbs) and kabary (public discourse). Both of these two oral traditions remain integral parts of Malagasy daily life, where they are pronounced at such events as weddings, funerals, births and famadihana and constitute an essential component of hiragasy performances. They may also include \"angano\" (folktales and fables), \"tantara\" (historical narratives) or \"ankamantatra\" (riddles). These diverse Malagasy oral traditions were advanced in the 20th century by such artists as Jean Joseph Rabearivelo, who is considered Africa's first modern poet, and Elie Rajaonarison, an exemplar of the new wave of Malagasy poetry.\n\n\"Proverb\" offers a weak approximation of the meaning of ohabolana, which constitute no less than concise expressions of the Malagasy philosophical worldview. While the exact number of existing ohabolana is unknown, the largest published collection includes over 6,500 of them relating to all aspects of life and particularly the human condition. Fox has described ohabolana as constituting \"a universal philosophy of life that transcends its Malagasy context and merits admiration as one of man's noble attempts to construct a valid moral and philosophical framework for his existence.\" Ohabolana are not the property of a particular class but are rather at the disposition of anyone who finds a salient application of a particular expression to a given situation. Their form persists unchanged from ancient times even when grammar and syntax of contemporary speech have since evolved because, as Fox notes, altering an ohabolana would constitute disregard for the venerated ancestors who are their originators. Ohabolana are characteristically brief, metaphorical, symmetrical in pattern and syntax.<br>\nExamples:<br>\nThe tradition of kabary in Madagascar, which predates Merina King Andrianampoinimerina (1787–1810), nonetheless owes much of its modern form, usage and meaning to standards set at his court. Kabary is a highly stylized form of speech that has formed an important part of Malagasy culture for centuries. One who speaks kabary is known as \"mpikabary\". Skill in this form of ceremonial public speaking—in which \"ohabolana\" proverbs play a privileged role—is highly esteemed and one who shows himself to be a \"tompon'ny kabary\" (master of kabary) enjoys a higher level of respect and even authority. According to the classic collection of Malagasy folklore \"Tantara ny Andriana eto Madagasikara\" the right to rule could even be determined by one's eloquence and skills in kabary, to the point where \"tompon'ny kabary\" and sovereign become interchangeable concepts:\nKabary forms an integral part of numerous important social ceremonies, including marriage, famadihana, circumcision and burial. By choosing to use the kabary speech style, a speaker can render any situation more formal and ceremonial, such as can happen when expressing condolences, offering thanks, formally addressing a gathering or giving a political address. To this day, skill in kabary can play a deciding role in the success of a Malagasy politician's career.\n\nKabary may be delivered by two or more mpikabary at the same occasion, and each one generally was nominated by and represents a portion of the audience present, as during hiragasy performances. When this happens, kabary speech can take on somewhat competitive overtones as the speakers attempt to demonstrate their superior skills. The mpikabary typically addresses himself to the audience of his opponent, and while direct confrontation is generally frowned upon in polite society in the Highlands of Madagascar, if an opponent mpikabary makes an error in the form of the kabary or misstates an ohabolana, this is commonly pointed out in an indirect or delicate manner as evidence of greater mastery. The use of indirect language such as proverbs is viewed as the more challenging, adult manner of speaking and demonstrates skill, while direct criticism, bluntness, hateful speech or anything that causes loss of face to the audience or a rival speaker is censured and despised as lacking in skill. Kabary is generally the domain of men and not women, because women are believed and expected to speak in a more straightforward way—including the expression of anger that can cause loss of face to the speaker—while men are expected to preserve face by taking the time to choose their words carefully when speaking to others. Nonetheless, some women may exceptionally engage in kabary (for instance, all queens), although men represent the vast majority of mpikabary.\n"}
{"id": "7643744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7643744", "title": "History of printing in East Asia", "text": "History of printing in East Asia\n\nPrinting in East Asia evolved from ink rubbings made on paper or cloth from texts on stone tables in China during the Han dynasty (206 BC – 220 CE). Mechanical woodblock printing on paper started in China during the Tang dynasty before the 8th century CE. Use of woodblock printing quickly spread to other East Asian countries. While the Chinese used only clay and wood movable type at first, use of metal movable type was pioneered in Korea by the 13th century. The Western-style printing press became known in East Asia by the 16th century but was not fully adopted until centuries later.\n\nTraditionally, there have been two main printing techniques in Asia: woodblock printing (xylography) and moveable type printing. In the woodblock technique, ink is applied to letters carved upon a wooden board, which is then pressed onto paper. With moveable type, the board is assembled using different lettertypes, according to the page being printed. Wooden printing was used in the East from the 8th century onwards, and moveable metal type came into use during the 12th century.\n\nThe earliest specimen of woodblock printing on paper, whereby individual sheets of paper were pressed into wooden blocks with the text and illustrations carved into them, was discovered in 1974 in an excavation of Xi'an (then called Chang'an, the capital of Tang China), Shaanxi, China. It is a \"dharani\" sutra printed on hemp paper and dated to 650 to 670 AD, during the Tang dynasty (618–907). Another printed document dating to the early half of the Chinese Tang dynasty has also been found, the Saddharmapunṇḍarīka sutra or Lotus Sutra printed from 690 to 699.\n\nIn Korea, an example of woodblock printing from the eighth century was discovered in 1966. A copy of the Buddhist Dharani Sutra called the Pure Light Dharani Sutra (), discovered in Gyeongju, South Korea in a Silla dynasty pagoda that was repaired in 751 AD, was undated but must have been created sometime before the reconstruction of the Shakyamuni Pagoda of Bulguk Temple, Kyongju Province in 751 AD. The document is estimated to have been created no later than 704 AD.\n\nThe manuscript is transcribed onto thin slightly waxed sheets of paper by a professional calligrapher. The paper is placed face down on a block on which a thin layer of rice paste has been thinly spread and the back rubbed with a flat palm-fibre brush so that a clear impression of the inked area is left on the block. The engraving uses a set of sharp-edged tools to cut the characters with a double edged tool used to cut away any extra surfaces. The knife is held like a dagger in the right hand and guided by the middle finger of the left hand, drawing towards the cutter. The vertical lines are cut first, then the block is rotated 90 degrees and the horizontal lines cut.\n\nFour proof-readings are normally required – the transcript, the corrected transcript, first sample print from block and after any corrections have been made. A small correction to a block can be made by cutting a small notch and hammering in a wedge-shaped piece of wood. Larger errors require an inlay. After this the block is washed to remove any refuse.\n\nTo print, the block is fixed firmly on a table. The printer takes a round horsehair inking brush and applies ink with a vertical motion. The paper is then laid on the block and rubbed with a long narrow pad to transfer the impression to the paper. The paper is peeled off and set to dry. Because of the rubbing process, printing is only done on one side of the paper, and the paper is thinner than in the west, but two pages are normally printed at once.\n\nSample copies were sometimes made in red or blue, but black ink was always used for production. It is said that a skilled printer could produce as many as 1500 or 2000 double sheets in a day. Blocks can be stored and reused when extra copies are needed. 15,000 prints can be taken from a block with a further 10,000 after touching up.\n\nPrinting started in China in 593 AD. Printing was promoted by the spread of Buddhism.\nThe Buddhist scroll known as the \"Great Dharani Sutra of Immaculate and Pure Light\" or \"Spotless Pure Light Dharani Sutra\" () is currently the oldest surviving woodblock print. It was published in Korea before the year 751 A.D. during the Silla Kingdom. This Darani Sutra was found inside the Seokga Pagoda of Bulguksa Temple in Gyeongju, Korea. Bulguksa Temple in Gyeongju in October 1966 within the seokgatap (释迦塔) while dismantling the tower to repair much of the sari was found with the prints. One row of the darani gyeongmun 8-9 are printed in the form of a roll. Tripitaka Koreana was printed between 1011 and 1082. It is the world's most comprehensive and oldest intact version of Buddhist canon. A reprint in 1237–51 used 81,258 blocks of magnolia wood, carved on both sides, which are still kept almost intact at Haeinsa. A printing office was established in the National Academy in 1101 and the Goryeo government collection numbered several tens of thousands.\n\nIn Japan, one thousand copies of the Lotus sutra were printed in 1009 as a pious work, not intended to be read and therefore legibility was not so important. The spread of printing outside Buddhist circles didn't develop until the end of the 16th century.\n\nThe westward movement of printing started from eastern Turkestan where printing in the Uyghur language appeared in about 1300, though the page numbers and descriptions are in Chinese. Both blocks and moveable type printing has been discovered at Turfan as well as several hundred wooden type for Uighur. After the Mongols conquered Turfan, a great number of Uighurs were recruited into the Mongol army and after the Mongols incorporated Persia in the middle of the 13th century, paper money was printed in Tabriz in 1294, following the Chinese system. The was made by Rashid-al-Din Hamadani in 1301–11 in his history of the world.\n\nSome fifty pieces of printed matter have been found in Egypt printed between 900 and 1300 in black ink on paper by the rubbing method in the Chinese style. Although there is no transmission evidence, experts believe there is a connection.\n\nAccording to the print scholar A. Hyatt Mayor, \"it was the Chinese who really discovered the means of communication that was to dominate until our age.\" Both woodblock and movable type printing were replaced in the second half of the 19th century by western-style printing, initially lithography.\n\nBi Sheng (毕昇) (990–1051) developed the first known movable-type system for printing in China around 1040 AD during the Northern Song dynasty, using ceramic materials. As described by the Chinese scholar Shen Kuo (沈括) (1031–1095):\n\nIn 1193, Zhou Bida, an officer of Southern Song Dynasty, made a set of clay movable-type method according to the method described by Shen Kuo in his \"Dream Pool Essays\", and printed his book \"Notes of The Jade Hall\" (《玉堂杂记》).\n\nClay type printing was practiced in China from the Song dynasty through the Qing dynasty. As late as 1844 there were still books printed in China with ceramic movable types.\n\nWooden movable type was also first developed around 1040 AD by Bi Sheng (990–1051), as described by the Chinese scholar Shen Kuo (1031–1095), but was abandoned in favour of clay movable types due to the presence of wood grains and the unevenness of the wooden type after being soaked in ink.\nIn 1298, Wang Zhen (王祯/王禎), a Yuan dynasty governmental official of Jingde County, Anhui Province, China, re-invented a method of making movable wooden types. He made more than 30,000 wooden movable types and printed 100 copies of \"Records of Jingde County\" (《旌德县志》), a book of more than 60,000 Chinese characters. Soon afterwards, he summarized his invention in his book \"A method of making moveable wooden types for printing books\". This system was later enhanced by pressing wooden blocks into sand and casting metal types from the depression in copper, bronze, iron or tin. This new method overcame many of the shortcomings of woodblock printing. Rather than manually carving an individual block to print a single page, movable type printing allowed for the quick assembly of a page of text. Furthermore, these new, more compact type fonts could be reused and stored. The set of wafer-like metal stamp types could be assembled to form pages, inked, and page impressions taken from rubbings on cloth or paper. In 1322，a Fenghua county officer Ma Chengde (马称德) in Zhejiang, made 100,000 wooded movable types and printed 43 volume \"Daxue Yanyi\" (《大学衍义》). Wooden movable types were used continually in China. Even as late as 1733, a 2300-volume \"Wuying Palace Collected Gems Edition\" (《武英殿聚珍版丛书》) was printed with 253500 wooden movable type on order of the Yongzheng Emperor, and completed in one year.\n\nA number of books printed in Tangut script during the Western Xia (1038–1227) period are known, of which the \"Auspicious Tantra of All-Reaching Union\" that was discovered in the ruins of Baisigou Square Pagoda in 1991 is believed to have been printed sometime during the reign of Emperor Renzong of Western Xia (1139–1193). It is considered by many Chinese experts to be the earliest extant example of a book printed using wooden movable type.\n\nA particular difficulty posed the logistical problems of handling the several thousand logographs whose command is required for full literacy in Chinese language. It was faster to carve one woodblock per page than to composit a page from so many different types. However, if one was to use movable type for multitudes of the same document, the speed of printing would be relatively quicker.\n\nAlthough the wooden type was more durable under the mechanical rigors of handling, repeated printing wore the character faces down, and the types could only be replaced by carving new pieces.\n\nBronze movable type printing was invented in China no later than the 12th century, according to at least 13 material finds in China, in large scale bronze plate printing of paper money and formal official documents issued by Jin (1115–1234) and Southern Song (1127–1279) dynasties with embedded bronze metal types for anti counterfeit markers. Such paper money printing might date back to the 11th-century \"jiaozi\" of Northern Song (960–1127).\nThe typical example of this kind of bronze movable type embedded copper-block printing is a printed \"check\" of Jin Dynasty with two square holes for embedding two bronze movable type characters, each selected from 1000 different characters, such that each printed paper money has different combination of markers. A copper block printed paper money dated between 1215–1216 in the collection of Luo Zhenyu's \"Pictorial Paper Money of the Four Dynasties\", 1914, shows two special characters one called \"Ziliao\", the other called \"Zihao\" for the purpose of preventing counterfeit; over the \"Ziliao\" there is a small character (輶) printed with movable copper type, while over the \"Zihao\" there is an empty square hole, apparently the associated copper metal type was lost. Another sample of Song dynasty money of the same period in the collection of Shanghai Museum has two empty square holes above \"Ziliao\" as well as \"Zihou\", due to the loss of two copper movable types. Song dynasty bronze block embedded with bronze metal movable type printed paper money was issued in large scale and in circulation for a long time.\n\nIn the 1298 book \"Zao Huozi Yinshufa\" (《造活字印书法》/《造活字印書法》) by the early Yuan dynasty (1271–1368) official Wang Zhen, there is mention of tin movable type, used probably since the Southern Song dynasty (1127–1279), but this was largely experimental. It was unsatisfactory due to its incompatibility with the inking process.\n\nDuring the Mongol Empire (1206–1405), printing using movable type spread from China to Central Asia. The Uyghurs of Central Asia used movable type, their script type adopted from the Mongol language, some with Chinese words printed between the pages, a strong evidence that the books were printed in China.\nDuring the Ming dynasty (1368–1644), Hua Sui in 1490 used bronze type in printing books. In 1574 the massive 1000 volume encyclopedia Imperial Readings of the Taiping Era (《太平御览》/《太平御覧》) were printed with bronze movable type.\n\nIn 1725, the Qing dynasty government made 250,000 bronze movable-type characters and printed 64 sets of the encyclopedic \"Gujin Tushu Jicheng\" (《古今图书集成》/《古今圖書集成》, \"Complete Collection of Illustrations and Writings from the Earliest to Current Times\"). Each set consisted of 5040 volumes, making a total of 322,560 volumes printed using movable type.\n\nThe transition from wood type to movable metal type occurred in Korea during the Goryeo dynasty, some time in the 13th century, to meet the heavy demand for both religious and secular books. A set of ritual books, \"Sangjeong Gogeum Yemun\" were printed with movable metal type in 1234. The credit for the first metal movable type may go to Choe Yun-ui of the Goryeo Dynasty in 1234.\n\nThe techniques for bronze casting, used at the time for making coins (as well as bells and statues) were adapted to making metal type. Unlike the metal punch system thought to be used by Gutenberg, the Koreans used a sand-casting method. The following description of the Korean font casting process was recorded by the Joseon dynasty scholar Song Hyon (15th century):\n\nWhile metal movable type printing was developed in Korea and the oldest extant metal print book had been printed in Korea, Korea never witnessed a printing revolution comparable to Europe's:\n\nA potential solution to the linguistic and cultural bottleneck that held back movable type in Korea for two hundred years appeared in the early 15th century—a generation before Gutenberg would begin working on his own movable type invention in Europe—when King Sejong devised a simplified alphabet of 24 characters called Hangul for use by the common people, which could have made the typecasting and compositing process more feasible.\n\nThough the Jesuits operated a Western movable type printing-press in Nagasaki, Japan, printing equipment brought back by Toyotomi Hideyoshi's army in 1593 from Korea had far greater influence on the development of the medium. Four years later, Tokugawa Ieyasu, even before becoming \"shōgun\", effected the creation of the first native movable type, using wooden type-pieces rather than metal. He oversaw the creation of 100,000 type-pieces, which were used to print a number of political and historical texts.\n\nAn edition of the Confucian \"Analects\" was printed in 1598 using metal moveable type printing equipment at the order of Emperor Go-Yōzei. This document is the oldest work of Japanese moveable type printing extant today. Despite the appeal of moveable type, however, it was soon decided that the running script style of Japanese writings would be better reproduced using woodblocks, and so woodblocks were once more adopted; by 1640 they were once again being used for nearly all purposes.\n\nDespite the introduction of movable type from the 11th century, printing using woodblocks remained dominant in East Asia until the introduction of lithography and photolithography in the 19th century. To understand this it is necessary to consider both the nature of the language and the economics of printing.\n\nGiven that the Chinese language does not use an alphabet it was usually necessary for a set of type to contain 100,000 or more blocks, which was a substantial investment. Common characters need 20 or more copies, and rarer characters only a single copy. In the case of wood, the characters were either produced in a large block and cut up, or the blocks were cut first and the characters cut afterwards. In either case the size and height of the type had to be carefully controlled to produce pleasing results. To handle the typesetting, Wang Zhen used revolving tables about 2m in diameter in which the characters were divided according to the five tones and the rhyme sections according to the official book of rhymes. The characters were all numbered and one man holding the list called out the number to another who would fetch the type.\n\nThis system worked well when the run was large. Wang Zhen's initial project to produce 100 copies of a 60,000 character gazetteer of the local district was produced in less than a month. But for the smaller runs typical of the time it was not such an improvement. A reprint required resetting and re-proofreading, unlike the wooden block system where it was feasible to store the blocks and reuse them. Individual wooden characters didn't last as long as complete blocks. When metal type was introduced it was harder to produce aesthetically pleasing type by the direct carving method.\n\nIt is unknown whether metal movable types used from the late 15th century in China were cast from moulds or carved individually. Even if they were cast, there were not the economies of scale available with the small number of different characters used in an alphabetic system. The wage for engraving on bronze was many times that for carving characters on wood and a set of metal type might contain 200,000–400,000 characters. Additionally, the ink traditionally used in Chinese printing, typically composed of pine soot bound with glue, didn't work well with the tin originally used for type.\n\nAs a result of all this, movable type was initially used by government offices which needed to produce large number of copies and by itinerant printers producing family registers who would carry perhaps 20,000 pieces of wooden type with them and cut any other characters needed locally. But small local printers often found that wooden blocks suited their needs better.\n\nMechanical presses as used in European printing remained unknown in East Asia. Instead, printing remained an unmechanized, laborious process with pressing the back of the paper onto the inked block by manual \"rubbing\" with a hand tool. In Korea, the first printing presses were introduced as late as 1881–83, while in Japan, after an early but brief interlude in the 1590s, Gutenberg's printing press arrived in Nagasaki in 1848 on a Dutch ship.\n\nContrary to Gutenberg printing, which allowed printing on both sides of the paper from its very beginnings (although not simultaneously until very recent times), East Asian printing was done only on one side of the paper, because the need to rub the back of the paper when printing would have spoilt the first side when the second side was printed. Another reason was that, unlike in Europe where Gutenberg introduced more suitable oil-based ink, Asian printing remained confined to water-based inks which tended to soak through the paper.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59114506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59114506", "title": "Influence of French on English", "text": "Influence of French on English\n\nThere has been a long-standing influence of French on English, in terms of syntax, grammar, lexicon, spelling and pronunciation.\n\nMost French vocabulary that entered English occurred after the Norman conquest of England in 1066 and the establishment of a French-speaking administration. French became the language of the court, the administration and the elites for several centuries, until after the Hundred Years War. English has been constantly influenced by French from that time till present day.\nAccording to Laura K. Lawless, more than a third of the current English vocabulary is of French origin. According to linguist Henriette Walter, words of French origin represent more than two thirds of the English vocabulary. It is estimated by linguist Anthony Lacoudre that over 40 000 English words are directly French and may be understood without orthographical change by French speakers.\n\nAt the beginning of XIth century, the English language did not have a well-defined status. Indeed, the inhabitants of what would become Great Britain did not have a language that allowed them to communicate with each other. There were many different dialectal forms. Great Britain, in which various Celtic idioms had coexisted since the IVth century, had experienced partial Roman occupation since the 1st century A.D., and this for four centuries.\n\nFrom 450 onwards, the Saxons, the Angles and the Jutes, who came from the continent, settled in the south and east. Germanic dialects would prevail in these regions, supplanting Celtic dialects, which would remain in the west and north of the island (Wales, Cornwall, Scotland) and Ireland. In the VIIIth century, Vikings from Scandinavia settled on the island. Their languages, also Germanic, in turn influence the languages already present on the island. Thus, at the dawn of XIth century, the country was made up of a series of peoples with significantly different speeches, most of them Germanic, with multiple influences.\n\nIt is therefore a linguistically disunited people that the Normans will get massively in contact with, from 1066. William II of Normandy, supported by his King, Philip I of France, and his blood legitimacy to the throne of England, landed at Hastings, in Sussex, on 29 September 1066. His men are deployed around the city waiting for the king Harold II's troops. On October 14, exhausted by the long journey to Hastings, Harold II's troops lost the battle after a day. Following the defeat of the English, Duke William II of Normandy became King of England on December 25, 1066, crowned under the name of William I of England, also known as William the Conqueror. This date marks the beginning of a long period of ties between the peoples and languages.\n\nIn fact, these links already existed before the Battle of Hastings. Indeed, the geographical location of Normandy, facing the English Channel, favoured commercial contacts with England. These ties will be further strengthened at the beginning of the XIth century when the daughter of the Duke Richard II of Normandy, Emma, marries King Æthelred II of England. But it is really from the 1066 conquest that proto-English becomes massively impregnated with Old French, then modern French. It should be noted, however, that only French will influence English in the centuries following the conquest. The reverse contribution of English to French will only be real from the XVIIIth century.\n\nThe arrival of William the Conqueror and his barons significantly changed the linguistic situation in England. Norman is essentially imposed in the upper layers of society. The Anglo-Saxon dialects were supplanted by Norman in the circles of the court and aristocracy, justice and the Church. The influential circles, who came from Normandy and settled in England, kept their Norman mother tongue, while the more modest rural and urban strata continued to speak English.\n\nNorman is a particular variety of the Gallo-Roman language, spoken in Normandy. It is one of the Oil languages alongside, among others, the Picard and the Walloon. The Norman language is modified in contact with the Anglo-Saxon language. It then integrates words and phrases from English and will give birth to a dialect, Anglo-Norman, still spoken on the Anglo-Norman isles. Anglo-Norman can be described as a vernacular language, on English soil in the XIth century, in the field of literature, culture, court and among the clergy. French was therefore, at first, spoken in England under the form of this Anglo-Norman dialect.\n\nDuring the XIIth century, continental French has a greater influence on Old English. It acquires great prestige in England, especially within the aristocracy and the clergy. It becomes the language of law and justice nationwide. Rich and noble families, most of them of Norman origin, teach their children French or send them to study in France. The expansion of the French language in England was also encouraged by royal marriages. From Henry II Plantagenet and Eleanor of Aquitaine at the beginning of the century, to Henri VI and Marguerite in the XVth century, all kings of England married French princesses. These marriages made French the language of the English court for several centuries and were decisive in strengthening the use of French in England. This period (XIIth-XVth centuries) is characterized by a massive influx of French words into Old English vocabulary.\n\nIn 1204, Philippe Auguste Normandy is officially annexed to the kingdom of France, politically isolating England from the continent. Normans who choose to stay in England move further away from France and, therefore, from the French language. Keeping its status as the language of justice and the language of power, England saw the first teaching manuals for teaching French to the English. These manuals were intended for English nobles who wish to perfect their knowledge of French and teach it to their children. Two types of French spoken in the higher spheres of English society can be distinguished during the XIIIth century : the Anglo-Norman dialect, which was the aristocrats' mother tongue, and a more prestigious type of French as a second language. Knowing \"parisian\" French was a mark of social distinction. As a language of culture, French supplanted Latin from the XIIth century onward as the language of diplomacy and worldly relations throughout Europe. The mass and influence of French literature reinforced its reputation and appeal.\n\nThe XVIth century, that of the Renaissance, is a decisive century for French since king François I of France, through the Ordonnance de Villers-Cotterêts (1539), makes French the official language of administration in the whole kingdom.\nAlthough troubled by the European wars of religion, the Italian Wars, the language is marked by intellectual, technical and scientific effervescence. It ushered in an era of prosperity that would also spread to England through French.\n\nThe XVIIth century announces the apogee of the Kingdom of France. This period was characterized by the political, literary and artistic prestige of France and the French language. Peace restored and unity ensured in the country, economy grew considerably. Personalities such as the King Henri IV, the Cardinal of Richelieu or the Sun King contribute to fixing and enhancing the French language in Europe, the Americas, India and Oceania.\n\nThe creation of the Académie française by Richelieu in 1635, under Louis XIII, was a step that led to the standardization of French in continental Europe and abroad, including England. French is then the second language of all the elites in Europe, from Turkey to Ireland and from Moscow to Lisbon. The greatest scholars and intellectuals, writers and scientists, express themselves and correspond in this new standardised French. French is considered a perfect language, whose beauty and elegance are determined by the development of scientific logic, aided by dictionaries and grammars.\n\nThe geographical use of French has continuously and greatly diversified in the last five hundred years, with countries and states like New-Brunswick, Quebec, Ivory Coast, Benin, Togo, Guinea, Cameroon, Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Madagascar, Mauritius, Tchad, Djibouti, Senegal, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Lebanon, France, Belgium, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Monaco, Aosta Valley, French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Vanuatu adopting it as their official language. This geographical diversity has led to many different contacts with vernacular dialects, regional and international languages, from which French has often been enriched locally.\nIn a number of countries and regions where French shares co-officiality with English (Cameroon, Canada, Jersey, Mauritius, Rwanda, Vanuatu), particular lexical regionalisms are observed where French and English terms are used interchangeably.\n\nSeveral elements must be observed.\n\n\nThe following French glossary in English is in no way exhaustive. These words come as examples to illustrate the countless French words that are part of the English language.\n\nIn this section, examples of French-to-English lexical contributions are classified by field and in chronological order. The periods during which these words were used in the English language are specified as much as possible. It is not always possible to state with certainty the precise period from which a word was borrowed or integrated.\n\nThe English word is on the left, with its current French equivalent in brackets, then comes its Old French origin in bold and the century of its introduction on the right.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31447380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31447380", "title": "International Society of Typographic Designers", "text": "International Society of Typographic Designers\n\nThe International Society of Typographic Designers (ISTD) is a professional body run by and for typographers, graphic designers, and educators. The society has an international membership and its aims are to establish and maintain standards of typography and to provide a forum for debate.\n\nThe ISTD was originally formed as the British Typographers' Guild (BTG) in 1928 when Vincent Steer and friends met in a Sicilian restaurant in Holborn, to found the society. Steer recognized the need and the potential for the creative typographer's skills in a world where most 'design' was carried out through compositors' layouts. From his own background in printing, and the opportunity to observe the trade in America, he determined to develop the profession of typography in the UK, and to that end started the British Typographers Guild with six other like-minded founding members.\n\nIn 1953 the guild became the Society of Typographic Designers (STD), and in 1999, recognizing its influence in other countries, and at the behest of then President Colin Banks, it became the International Society of Typographic Designers (ISTD).\n\n\"TypoGraphic\" is the journal of the ISTD and was first published in 1971. Selected writings from 30 years of \"TypoGraphic\" were published in an anthology in 2001.\n\nA complete set of \"TypoGraphic\" journals is available at the St Bride Library.\n\nThe ISTD runs the International Typographic Awards which are held as an appraisal of current standards in typographic design and are judged by some of today's leading graphic, interactive and typographic design specialists:\n\n\nThe ISTD Awards are held every three years: there were awards in 2011 and 2014, and the next award will be given during 2017.\n\nThe ISTD has several categories of membership, some with designatory postnominals:\n\n\nThe annual Student Assessment, started in 1975, allows students to gain entry to the ISTD. This is achieved by assessment of their work applied to a rigorous brief (five new project briefs are published in October each year), and is open to those registered on a recognised full-time undergraduate or postgraduate course. Assessment is carried out by teams of practicing designers and typographic educators.\n\nStudent Assessments are held in England, Ireland, Middle East, South Africa and Australia to deal with the submissions relating to each location. These are coordinated by the ISTD Education Team under the aegis of the Education Director.\n"}
{"id": "19650816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19650816", "title": "Inventions That Changed the World", "text": "Inventions That Changed the World\n\nInventions That Changed the World is a five-part BBC Two documentary series presented by Jeremy Clarkson. First broadcast on 15 January 2004, the programme takes a look at some of the inventions that helped to shape the modern world. The UKTV channel \"Yesterday\" frequently repeats this series. However, episodes are edited to 46 minutes to allow for commercials to air in the one-hour time slot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6919732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6919732", "title": "Jacob's Dream", "text": "Jacob's Dream\n\nJacob’s Dream () is a 1639 oil-on-canvas painting by the Spanish Tenebrist painter José de Ribera (\"Lo Spagnoletto\"). \n\nIt measures and is in the Museo del Prado in Madrid.\n\nJacob appears as a shepherd sleeping, resting on his left shoulder with a tree behind him. In the background on the other side is the ladder that he sees in his dream. It is not a wooden ladder but a ladder of light, by which angels are ascending and descending.\n\n"}
{"id": "4846455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4846455", "title": "Jameh Mosque of Qazvin", "text": "Jameh Mosque of Qazvin\n\nJame Mosque of Qazvin ( – \"Masjid-e-Jameh Atiq Qazvin\") is one of the oldest mosques in Iran, and is the grand, congregational mosque (Jameh Mosque) of Qazvin, in Qazvin Province, Iran.\n\nThe oldest part of the mosque is said to have been constructed by the orders of Harun al-Rashid in 807CE. Later additions were made, the last being during the late Safavid era. The double layered main dome of the mosque is from the Seljuk era, and is locked to the public. It houses some precious examples of relief calligraphy from medieval times. Renovations have also been carried out on many sections of the mosque.\n\nThe foundation of the mosque is laid on a Zoroastrian fire temple.\n\nIn spite of the devastating Mongol invasion, the mosque still stands today in its full glory. It is still in use. Parts of the mosque have been turned into a public library.\n\nThe mosque also contains a Shabestan and Ab anbar, both now under the protection of Iran's Cultural Heritage Organization.\n\nPart of the mosque got on fire January 28, 2013 and that resulted in the historic tomb to be completely destroyed.\n\n"}
{"id": "36150981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36150981", "title": "Jill Wisoff", "text": "Jill Wisoff\n\nJill Wisoff is an American filmmaker, performer, actress and film composer best known for original music and songs in \"Welcome to the Dollhouse\", Todd Solondz's critically acclaimed 1996 Sundance Film Festival Grand Jury Prize winner.\n\nHer original musical scores can be heard in such representative work as \"Second Skin\" by filmmaker Amy Talkington, a 1999 Sundance Film Festival selection that sold to television worldwide. For producer Alan Sacks, she scored Melissa Gilbert's 1996 directorial debut, \"Me and My Hormones\", an ABC Afterschool Special; in \"Smart House\", a 1999 TV movie for Disney Channel directed by LeVar Burton, she co-wrote the song \"The House is Jumpin'\" with Barry Goldberg and Joel Diamond, and contributed additional score. Working with filmmaker Adam Goldstein and produced by William Kennedy, she scored \"Woman Found Dead in Elevator\" (2000), based on a story by Ruth Tarson with special material provided by Hunter S. Thompson and starring \"Wit\" Broadway star Kathleen Chalfant and George Plimpton.\n\nBorn in Queens, New York, her training in composition began while a student in the Manhattan School of Music Preparatory Division and later at Bennington College under Vivian Fine and Henry Brant. She directed, composed music and performed in stock and off-off Broadway. As a musician, she performed as lead guitarist for the all-girl reggae band, Steppin' Razor, produced by Chris Spedding, who later produced her own band, The Con Artists, some songs of which are included in the Welcome to the Dollhouse soundtrack. She later toured as bassist in Europe and the U.S. for the legendary Johnny Thunders as a member of his last band, The Oddballs. Between tours, she completed reshoots co-starring as Sharon opposite Todd Solondz's Ira in his lesser known first feature film, \"Fear, Anxiety & Depression\", theatrically released in 1989 through the Samuel Goldwyn Company, for which she was cited for her \"comic flair\" in Caryn James' review in The New York Times. She made her directorial debut with the feature comedy film, \"Creating Karma\", theatrically released in 2009. Her documentary produced with Harris F.B. Salomon, \"The Day After\", she completed in 2010 with footage she shot at Ground Zero on September 12, 2001. Following a screening series by New York Women in Film and Television called \"Life in the Aftermath of 9/11\", it was invited to be included in the memorial library collection of the naval ship USS New York, and the archives of the Tribute WTC Visitor Center. She also co-wrote \"The Collected Letters of Snaps\" with Salomon. The adventures of a retired greyhound racing dog in New York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "938678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=938678", "title": "John Stanislaus Joyce", "text": "John Stanislaus Joyce\n\nJohn Stanislaus Joyce (4 July 1849 – 29 December 1931) was the father of writer James Joyce, and a well known Dublin man about town. The son of James and Ellen (\"née\" O'Connell) Joyce, John Joyce grew up in Cork, where his mother's family, which claimed kinship to \"Liberator\" Daniel O'Connell, was quite prominent.\n\nJohn Joyce attended St Colman’s College, Fermoy, from 1859 and later studied medicine at The Queen’s College, Cork, from 1867. However, he did not complete his university studies.\n\nFollowing his father's death in 1866, John Joyce inherited substantial property around Cork, but soon after he moved to Dublin, where he worked for several years as secretary at a distillery company. He was also noted as a fine tenor singer, although he never pursued a musical career. On 5 May 1879, Joyce married Mary \"May\" Murray. The next year, because of his work supporting Liberal candidates in the General Election of 1880, Joyce was given a post in the Dublin Custom House. \n\nIn 1882, his son James was born, the first of ten surviving children. From eldest to youngest, names and ages given according to the 1901 census (see link below): James Augustine (aged 19 in 1901), Margaret Alice (17), John Stanislaus (16), Chales [sic] Patrick (14), George Alfred (13), Eileen (12), May Kathleen (11), Eva May (10), Florence (9) and Mabel (8). Over the next ten years, Joyce gradually ran through his property. A supporter of Parnell, Joyce was crushed by what he saw as Parnell's betrayal and death following the revelation of his adultery with Kitty O'Shea. He remained a committed Parnellite and benefited from the patronage of political colleagues in later life when he had few other sources of income. By the time of Parnell's death in 1891, Joyce had spent most of his inheritance and had been pensioned from his post at the custom house. A spendthrift, he proved barely able to live on the small pension that was left to him, and spent much of his time drinking. His wife died in 1903, but despite his poor management of the household, he managed to outlive her by 28 years. He died at the age of 82, which was rather advanced given the circumstances.\n\nOf all his children, Joyce got along well only with his eldest, James, who enjoyed his father's company and shared in some of his traits, including his musical talent and his inability with money. John Joyce inspired several characters in his son's works, such as Simon Dedalus in \"A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man\" and \"Ulysses\", Humphrey Chimpden Earwicker in \"Finnegans Wake\", and the narrator's uncle in the stories \"The Sisters\" and \"Araby\" in \"Dubliners\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44095605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44095605", "title": "John Truby", "text": "John Truby\n\nJohn Truby (born 1952) is a screenwriter, director and screenwriting teacher.\nHe has served as a consultant on over 1,000 film scripts over the past three decades, and is also known for the screenwriting software program Blockbuster (originally \"Storyline Pro\").\n\nTruby argues that most teachers of screenwriting emphasize inner transformation of the characters but not the moral effect their actions have on others. He is critical of Syd Field's three-act “Paradigm” and has instead crafted his own 22-step outline. Truby's first book \"The Anatomy of Story: 22 Steps to Becoming a Master Storyteller\" was published in October, 2007 by Faber and Faber.\n\nIn the 1980s, Truby received his first credits, writing three episodes of 21 Jump Street. He later received a co-writer credit on the 2011 Disney/BBC film \"African Cats\".\n"}
{"id": "30283625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30283625", "title": "Kokoon Arts Club", "text": "Kokoon Arts Club\n\nThe Kokoon Arts Club, sometimes spelled Kokoon Arts Klub, was a Bohemian artists group founded in 1911 by Carl Moellman, William Sommer and Elmer Brubeck to promote Modernism in Cleveland, Ohio. Moellman had been a member of New York City's Kit Kat Club, which served as inspiration for Kokoon. From 1913 to 1946 Kokoon's annual Bal-Masque balls scandalized Cleveland with risqué activities, provocative art, and nudity, and was sometimes wagishly referred to as the \"Cocaine Club\". A fierce rivalry stood between Kokoon and the more conservative Cleveland Society of Artists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27052778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27052778", "title": "List of genres", "text": "List of genres\n\nThis is a list of genres of literature and entertainment, excluding . Genre is the term for any category of literature or other forms of art or entertainment, e.g. music, whether written or spoken, audio or visual, based on some set of stylistic criteria. Genres are formed by conventions that change over time as new genres are invented and the use of old ones are discontinued. Often, works fit into multiple genres by way of borrowing and recombining these conventions.\n\nAbsurdist and surreal fiction challenges causal reasoning and the purposefulness of life. There is often, though not always, a connection to comedy.\n\nWhimsical has to do with a sense of eccentric or quirky humor. Related styles exaggerate real life in a whimsical, eccentric, quirky or fanciful way, sometimes including 'magical' extensions of reality.\n\nThe absurdist genre focuses on the experiences of characters in situations where they cannot find any inherent purpose in life, most often represented by ultimately meaningless actions and events that call into question the certainty of existential concepts such as truth or value.\n\nThe closely related/overlapping surreal genre is predicated on deliberate violations of causal reasoning, producing events and behaviours that are obviously illogical. Constructions of surreal humour tend to involve bizarre juxtapositions, non-sequiturs, irrational or absurd situations and expressions of nonsense.\n\nWhimsical and related styles are exemplified by films such as Underground, Amélie, Micmacs and Dieta Mediterranea (Mediterranean Food).\n\nAn action story is similar to adventure, and the protagonist usually takes a risky turn, which leads to desperate situations (including explosions, fight scenes, daring escapes, etc.). Action and Adventure are usually categorized together (sometimes even as \"action-adventure\") because they have much in common, and many stories fall under both genres simultaneously (for instance, the James Bond series can be classified as both).\n\n\nAn adventure story is about a protagonist who journeys to epic or distant places to accomplish something. It can have many other genre elements included within it,\nbecause it is a very open genre. The protagonist has a mission and faces obstacles to get to their destination. Also, adventure stories usually include unknown settings and characters with prized properties or features.\n\n\nComedy is a story that tells about a series of funny, or comical events, intended to make the audience laugh. It is a very open genre, and thus crosses over with many other genres on a frequent basis.\n\n\nA crime story is about a crime that is being committed or was committed. It can also be an account of a criminal's life. It often falls into the action or adventure genres.\n\n\nWithin film, television and radio (but not theatre), drama is a genre of narrative fiction (or semi-fiction) intended to be more serious than humorous in tone, focusing on in-depth development of realistic characters who must deal with realistic emotional struggles. A drama is commonly considered the opposite of a comedy, but may also be considered separate from other works of some broad genre, such as a fantasy.\n\n\nA fantasy story is about magic or supernatural forces, rather than technology (as science fiction) if it happens to take place in a modern or future era. Depending on the extent of these other elements, the story may or may not be considered to be a \"hybrid genre\" series; for instance, even though the Harry Potter series canon includes the requirement of a particular gene to be a wizard, it is referred to only as a fantasy series.\n\n\nA story about a real person or event. Often, they are written in a text book format, which may or may not focus on solely that.\n\n\nThe genre historical fiction includes stories that are about the past. To distinguish historical fiction from any fiction that is written about an era in the past, the criteria that the book must have been written about a time that occurred in a historical context in relation to the author of the book. The criteria that the story be set before the middle of the previous century is sometimes added. Historical fiction stories include historical details and includes characters that fit into the time period of the setting, whether or not they are real historical people.\n\nA horror story is told to deliberately scare or frighten the audience, through suspense, violence or shock. H. P. Lovecraft distinguishes two primary varieties in the \"Introduction\" to \"Supernatural Horror in Literature\": 1) Physical Fear or the \"mundanely gruesome\" and 2) the true Supernatural Horror story or the \"Weird Tale\". The supernatural variety is occasionally called \"dark fantasy\", since the laws of nature must be violated in some way, thus qualifying the story as \"fantastic\".\n\n\nMagical realism, also called Magic realism, is literary works where magical events form part of ordinary life. The reader is forced to accept that abnormal events such as levitation, telekinesis and talking with the dead take place in the real world. The writer does not invent a new world or describe in great detail new creatures, as is usual in Fantasy; on the contrary, the author abstains from explaining the fantastic events to avoid making them feel extraordinary. It is often regarded as a genre exclusive to Latin American literature, but some of its chief exponents include English authors. One Hundred Years of Solitude, by Gabriel García Márquez, who received the 1982 Nobel Prize in Literature, is considered the genre's seminal work of style.\n\nA mystery story follows an investigator as he/she attempts to solve a puzzle (often a crime). The details and clues are presented as the story continues and the protagonist discovers them and by the end of the story the mystery/puzzle is solved. For example, in the case of a crime mystery the perpetrator and motive behind the crime are revealed and the perpetrator is brought to justice. Mystery novels are often written in series, which facilitates a more in-depth development of the primary investigator. Specific types of mystery story include locked room mysteries and cozy mysteries.\n\nParanoid fiction is works of literature that explore the subjective nature of reality and how it can be manipulated by forces in power. These forces can be external, such as a totalitarian government, or they can be internal, such as a character's mental illness or refusal to accept the harshness of the world they are in.\n\nPhilosophical fiction is fiction in which a significant proportion of the work is devoted to a discussion of the sort of questions normally addressed in discursive philosophy. These might include the function and role of society, the purpose of life, ethics or morals, the role of art in human lives, and the role of experience or reason in the development of knowledge. Philosophical fiction works would include the so-called novel of ideas, including a significant proportion of science fiction, utopian and dystopian fiction, and Bildungsroman. The modus operandi seems to be to use a normal story to simply explain difficult and dark parts of human life.\n\n\nPolitical fiction is a subgenre of fiction that deals with political affairs. Political fiction has often used narrative to provide commentary on political events, systems and theories. Works of political fiction often \"directly criticize an existing society or... present an alternative, sometimes fantastic, reality.\" Prominent pieces of political fiction have included the totalitarian dystopias of the early 20th century such as Jack London's \"The Iron Heel\" and Sinclair Lewis's \"It Can't Happen Here\". Equally influential, if not more so, have been earlier pieces of political fiction such as \"Gulliver's Travels\" (1726), \"Candide\" (1759) and \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" (1852). Political fiction frequently employs the literary modes of satire, often in the genres of Utopian and dystopian fiction or social science fiction.\n\n\nThe term \"romance\" has multiple meanings; \"historical romances\" like those of Walter Scott would use the term to mean \"a fictitious narrative in prose or verse; the interest of which turns upon marvellous and uncommon incidents\". But most often a romance is understood to be \"love stories\", emotion-driven stories that are primarily focused on the relationship between the main characters of the story. Beyond the focus on the relationship, the biggest defining characteristic of the romance genre is that a \"happy ending\" is always guaranteed... perhaps marriage and living \"happily ever after\", or simply that the reader sees hope for the future of the romantic relationship. Due to the wide definition of romance, romance stories cover a wide variety of subjects and often fall into other genre categories as well as romance, such as Comedy-Romance (also known as romcom films), romantic suspense and (less common now): subcategories such as hospital romances, as found in the novels by Lucilla Andrews. See Mills & Boon imprint categories and Harlequin romances categories for a partial list of other sub-genres.\n\nThe sagas (from Icelandic saga, plural sögur) are stories about ancient Scandinavian and Germanic history, about early Viking voyages, about migration to Iceland, and of feuds between Icelandic families. They were written in the Old Norse language, mainly in Iceland. The texts are epic tales in prose, often with stanzas or whole poems in alliterative verse embedded in the text, of heroic deeds of days long gone, tales of worthy men, who were often Vikings, sometimes Pagan, sometimes Christian. The tales are usually realistic, except legendary sagas, sagas of saints, sagas of bishops and translated or recomposed romances. They are sometimes romanticised and fantastic, but always dealing with human beings one can understand.\n\n\nOften strictly defined as a literary genre or form, though in practice it is also found in the graphic and performing arts. In satire, human or individual vices, follies, abuses, or shortcomings are held up to censure by means of ridicule, derision, burlesque, irony, or other methods, ideally with the intent to bring about improvement. Satire is usually meant to be funny, but its purpose is not primarily humour as an attack on something the author disapproves of, using wit. A common, almost defining feature of satire is its strong vein of irony or sarcasm, but parody, burlesque, exaggeration, juxtaposition, comparison, analogy, and double entendre all frequently appear in satirical speech and writing. The essential point, is that \"in satire, irony is militant.\" This \"militant irony\" (or sarcasm) often professes to approve (or at least accept as natural) the very things the satirist actually wishes to attack.\n\nScience fiction is similar to fantasy, except stories in this genre use scientific understanding to explain the universe that it takes place in. It generally includes or is centered on the presumed effects or ramifications of computers or machines; travel through space, time or alternate universes; alien life-forms; genetic engineering; or other such things. The science or technology used may or may not be very thoroughly elaborated on; stories whose scientific elements are reasonably detailed, well-researched and considered to be relatively plausible given current knowledge and technology are often referred to as hard science fiction.\n\n\nIn Indian cinema terminology, social films (or simply socials) are films with a contemporary setting, as opposed to those with mythological and period settings.\n\nSpeculative fiction speculates about worlds that are unlike the real world in various important ways. In these contexts, it generally overlaps one or more of the following: science fiction, fantasy fiction, horror fiction, supernatural fiction, superhero fiction, utopian and dystopian fiction, apocalyptic and post-apocalyptic fiction, and alternate history.\n\n\nSuppositional fiction is a subcategory in which stories and characters are constrained within an internally consistent world, but this category is not necessarily associated with any particular genre. A work of suppositional fiction might be science fiction, alternate history, mystery, horror, or even suppositional fantasy, depending on the intent and focus of the author.\n\nA Thriller is a story that is usually a mix of fear and excitement. It has traits from the suspense genre and often from the action, adventure or mystery genres, but the level of terror makes it borderline horror fiction at times as well. It generally has a dark or serious theme, which also makes it similar to drama.\n\n\nUrban fiction, also known as street lit, is a literary genre set, as the name implies, in a city landscape; however, the genre is as much defined by the race and culture of its characters as the urban setting. The tone for urban fiction is usually dark, focusing on the underside. Profanity (all of George Carlin's seven dirty words and urban variations thereof), sex and violence are usually explicit, with the writer not shying away from or watering-down the material. In this respect, urban fiction shares some common threads with dystopian or survivalist fiction. In the second wave of urban fiction, some variations of this model have been seen.\n\nStories in the Western genre are set in the American West, between the time of the Civil war and the early twentieth century. The setting of a wilderness or uncivilized area is especially important to the genre, and the setting is often described richly and in-depth. They focus on the adventure of the main character(s) and the contrast between civilization or society and the untamed wilderness, often featuring the characters working to bring civilization to the wilderness. This genre periodically overlaps with historical fiction, and while a more traditional definition of westerns is that of stories about lone men facing the frontier, more modern definitions and writings are often expanded to include any person or persons in this time period that feature a strong tone of the contrast between civilization and wilderness and emphasize the independence of the main character(s).\n\nGenres are listed under the sub-sectioned formats:\n\n\n\n\n\nGenres in video games are somewhat different from other forms of art as most video game genres are based on the way in which the player interacts with the game. All genres from all other types of media can be applied to video games but are secondary to the genre types described below.\n\nGenres unique to video games:\n\n\nThe term country music gained popularity in the 1940s in preference to the earlier term hillbilly music; it came to encompass Western music, which evolved parallel to hillbilly music from similar roots, in the mid-20th century. The term country music is used today to describe many styles and subgenres. In 2009 country music was the most listened to rush hour radio genre during the evening commute, and second most popular in the morning commute in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "2492291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2492291", "title": "Lyceum Theatre, London", "text": "Lyceum Theatre, London\n\nThe Lyceum Theatre (pronounced ly-CEE-um) is a 2,100-seat West End theatre located in the City of Westminster, on Wellington Street, just off the Strand. The origins of the theatre date to 1765. Managed by Samuel Arnold, from 1794 to 1809 the building hosted a variety of entertainments including a circus produced by Philip Astley, a chapel, and the first London exhibition of waxworks displayed by Madame Tussaud. From 1816 to 1830, it served as The English Opera House. After a fire, the house was rebuilt and reopened on 14 July 1834 to a design by Samuel Beazley. The building was unique in that it has a balcony overhanging the dress circle. It was built by the partnership of Peto & Grissell. The theatre then played opera, adaptations of Charles Dickens novels and James Planché's \"fairy extravaganzas\", among other works.\n\nFrom 1871 to 1902, Henry Irving appeared at the theatre in, especially, Shakespeare, usually starring opposite Ellen Terry. In 1904 the theatre was almost completely rebuilt and richly ornamented in Rococo style by Bertie Crewe, but it retained Beazley's façade and grand portico. It played mostly melodrama over the ensuing decades. The building closed in 1939 and was set to be demolished, but it was saved and converted into a Mecca Ballroom in 1951, styled the Lyceum Ballroom, where many well-known bands played. The Lyceum was closed in 1986 but restored to theatrical use in 1996 by Holohan Architects. Since 1999, the theatre has hosted \"The Lion King\".\n\nIn 1765, a building was erected on an adjacent site by the architect James Payne for the exhibitions of The Society of Artists, which disbanded three years later when the Royal Academy of Arts succeeded it. The building was then leased out for dances and other entertainments, including musical entertainments by Charles Dibdin. Famed actor David Garrick also performed there. In 1794, the composer Samuel Arnold Sr rebuilt the interior of the building, making it into a proper theatre, but through the opposition of the existing patent theatres, he was not granted a patent. Therefore, he leased it to other entertainments again, including Philip Astley, who brought his circus there when his amphitheatre was burned down at Westminster. It was also used as a chapel, a concert room, and for the first London exhibition of waxworks displayed by Madame Tussauds in 1802.\n\nThe theatre finally became a licensed house in 1809, and until 1812 it was used for dramatic performances by the Drury Lane Company after the burning of their own theatre, until the erection of the new edifice. It staged one of the earliest tableaux vivants, as part of William Dimond's \"The Peasant Boy\" in 1811. In 1816, Samuel Arnold rebuilt the house to a design by Beazley and opened it as The English Opera House, but it was destroyed by fire in 1830. The house was famous for hosting the London première of Mozart's opera \"Così fan tutte\" (9 May 1811) and as the first theatre in Britain to have its stage lit by gas (6 August 1817). During this period, the \"Sublime Society of Beef Steaks,\" which had been founded in 1735 by theatre manager Henry Rich, had its home at the theatre for over 50 years until 1867. The members, who never exceeded twenty-four in number, met every Saturday night to eat beefsteaks and drink port wine.\n\nIn 1834, the present house opened slightly to the west, with a frontage on Wellington Street, under the name Theatre Royal Lyceum and English Opera House. The theatre was again designed by Beazley and cost £40,000. The new house championed English opera rather than the Italian operas that had played earlier in the century. Composer John Barnett produced a number of works in the first few years of the theatre, including \"The Mountain Sylph\" (1834), credited as the first modern English opera. It was followed by \"Fair Rosamund\" in 1837 and \"Farinelli\" in 1839 (both at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane), and \"Blanche of Jersey\" here in 1840. In 1841–43, composer Michael William Balfe managed the theatre and produced National Opera here, but the venture was ultimately unsuccessful. From 1844 to 1847 the theatre was managed by husband and wife team Robert Keeley and Mary Anne Keeley, during which period the house became associated with adaptations of Charles Dickens's novels and Christmas books. For instance, an adaptation of Dickens' \"Martin Chuzzlewit\" ran for over 100 performances from 1844–45 here, a long run for the time.\n\nThe Lyceum was later managed by Madame Lucia Elizabeth Vestris and Charles James Mathews from 1847–55, who produced James Planché's \"[fairy] extravaganzas\" featuring spectacular stage effects. Their first big success was John Maddison Morton's \"Box and Cox\". Tom Taylor's adaptation of \"A Tale of Two Cities\", with Dickens himself as consultant, played in 1860, shortly after end of its serialisation and volume publication. Charles Fechter, who managed the theatre from 1863–67 also favored spectacular productions. In 1866, Dion Boucicault's \"The Long Strike\" (his adaptation of Elizabeth Gaskell's Manchester novels \"Mary Barton\" and \"Lizzie Leigh\") was produced here. Ethel Lavenu, the mother and grandmother of actors Tyrone Power, Sr. and Tyrone Power performed in a number pieces at the theatre in the 1860s. W. S. Gilbert produced three plays here. In 1863, his first professional play, \"Uncle Baby\", premièred. In 1867, he presented his Christmas pantomime, called \"Harlequin Cock Robin and Jenny Wren\", and in 1884, he produced the drama \"Comedy and Tragedy\".\n\nIn 1889, the world's finest Italian dramatic tenor, Francesco Tamagno, appeared at the Lyceum, singing the leading role in the first London production of Giuseppe Verdi's opera \"Otello\".\n\nBeginning in 1871, under manager Hezekiah Linthicum Bateman and his wife, Henry Irving appeared at the theatre in, among other things, many Shakespeare works. Irving began with the French melodrama \"The Bells\", an instant hit in which he played the ghost-haunted burgomaster. The piece ran to sell-out crowds for 150 nights, which was an unusually long run at the time. \"Charles I\", in 1872 was another hit, running for 180 nights. In 1874, Irving played \"Hamlet\" at the theatre, perhaps his greatest triumph, running for 200 nights. In 1878, after Bateman's death, Irving took over management of the theatre from his widow. \"The Builder\", 28 September 1878 reported that there was a difference between Irving and Mrs. Bateman regarding the personnel of the company at the Lyceum. \"Mr. Irving is said to have told Mrs. Bateman that he was resolved to have actors to act with him, and not dolls, otherwise he would no longer play at the Lyceum. The result was that Mrs. Bateman threw up the management of the theatre, and Mr. Irving takes her place.\" Mrs. Bateman became the manager of Sadler's Wells Theatre.\n\nIrving continued to star in plays there, especially Shakespeare, until 1902, engaging co-star Ellen Terry for that entire period of 24 years. Bram Stoker worked between 1878 and 1898 as business manager of the theatre, and Irving was Stoker's real-life inspiration for the character Count Dracula in his 1897 novel, \"Dracula\". Stoker hoped that Irving, with his dramatic, sweeping gestures, gentlemanly mannerisms, and speciality in playing villain roles, would play Dracula in the stage adaptation of his novel. However, Irving never agreed to appear in the stage version, although the play was produced at the Lyceum.\nIrving and Terry began with \"Hamlet\" in 1878. Their 1879 production of \"The Merchant of Venice\" ran for an unusual 250 nights, and success followed success in the Shakespeare canon as well as in other major plays. Other celebrated productions included \"Much Ado About Nothing\", \"The Lady of Lyons\" by Edward Bulwer-Lytton (1878), \"Romeo and Juliet\", \"King Lear\", \"The Lyons Mail\" by Charles Reade (1883), the immensely popular \"Faust\" by William Gorman Wills (1885, which even drew applications for reserved seats from foreigners), \"Macbeth\" (1888, with incidental music by Sir Arthur Sullivan), \"Henry VIII\" (1892), \"Becket\" by Alfred Tennyson (1893), \"King Arthur\" by J. Comyns Carr, with incidental music by Sir Arthur Sullivan (1895), \"Cymbeline\" (1896) and Victorien Sardou and Émile Moreau's play \"Madame Sans-Gêne\" (1897).\n\nWhen Irving and Terry toured America, as they did several times beginning in 1883, the theatre played works with many famous actors including Johnston Forbes-Robertson, Mrs. Patrick Campbell, Sarah Bernhardt and Eleonora Duse. Martin Harvey, a pupil of Irving's played a season there in 1899. Benoît-Constant Coquelin appeared as Cyrano de Bergerac in the summer of 1898.\n\nAfter being bought by Thomas Barrasford, in 1904 the theatre was rebuilt and richly ornamented in rococo style by Bertie Crewe, retaining only the façade and portico of the original building. The theatre presented music hall and variety, in an attempt to compete with the Palace Theatre and the new Stoll built London Coliseum, but this was not a success, and the theatre soon returned to presenting drama. From 1909–38 the Melville Brothers ran a successful series of spectacular melodramas. In 1919, additional minor alterations to the theatre were made by Edward Jones. Between the wars, dramas played at the theatre for ten months each year, followed by Christmas pantomimes, including \"Queen of Hearts\" in 1938. The Lyceum was the last London theatre to continue the early practice of concluding pantomimes with a harlequinade, a free standing entertainment of slapstick clowning, juggling and tumbling. The tradition ended with the closure of the theatre in 1939.\n\nIn 1939, the London County Council bought the building, with plans to demolish it to make room for road improvement. The theatre closed that year with a landmark performance of \"Hamlet\" directed by Sir John Gielgud (Ellen Terry's great nephew). The road improvement plans collapsed, and after the war, in 1945, it was converted to a huge ballroom and reopened by Matthews and Sons, as the Lyceum Ballroom. The Miss World contest was staged at the venue every year from 1951 to 1968. Many big bands played here, including the Oscar Rabin Band which performed frequently. In the 1960s and 1970s, the theatre was used as a pop concert venue and for television broadcasts. The Grateful Dead, The Groundhogs, The Clash, Bob Marley and the Wailers, Led Zeppelin, Queen, The Police, The Who, Emerson, Lake & Palmer, Colosseum, U2, The Smiths and Culture Club all played here. Bob Marley and the Wailers recorded their \"Live!\" album here on 18–19 July 1975. Genesis filmed a performance there in May 1980 for broadcast on the \"Old Grey Whistle Test\". This footage appears on the 2007 CD/DVD re-release of their 1980 album \"Duke\".\nA proposed redevelopment of Covent Garden by the GLC in 1968 saw the theatre under threat, together with the nearby Vaudeville, Garrick, Adelphi and Duchess theatres. An active campaign by Equity, the Musicians' Union, and theatre owners under the auspices of the \"Save London Theatres Campaign\" led to the abandonment of the scheme. In 1973, the theatre gained protection and was Grade II* listed as \"Interior despite adaptation and alteration for present ballroom use retains [a] substantial part of Crewe's work\".\n\nThe theatre went dark in 1986, after the National Theatre's promenade performances (in 1985) of Bill Bryden's adaptation of the \"Mysteries\" trilogy. Brent Walker leased the theatre during this time but later gave up his lease, and in 1996 it was restored and reconverted into a theatre for large-scale musicals or opera (with a suitably large orchestra pit) by Holohan Architects. A production of \"Jesus Christ Superstar\" played from 1996 to 1998.\n\nThe theatre has been home to the musical theatre version of \"The Lion King\" since 1999. To celebrate the 10th anniversary of the production, which has grossed over £289 million and been seen by more than eight million people, 250 former cast members gathered onstage, together with designer-director Julie Taymor. Prime Minister David Cameron and actor James Earl Jones, who voiced the role of King Mufasa in the original Disney animated film, attended the performance.\n\n\nSources:\n\n"}
{"id": "49239531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49239531", "title": "Made in Russia", "text": "Made in Russia\n\nThe ‘Made in Russia’ national brand is a Russian communication project aimed at promoting and raising awareness of Russia’s exports, business, and culture in both domestic and foreign markets. \nThe project was created by a team of professional translators, designers, marketers, and foreign trade specialists with the goal of improving communication - in every sense of the word - between Russian companies and international audiences.\n\nAmongst its other activities, ‘Made in Russia’ is working to promote the country’s non-commodity goods, attracting necessary partners and target audiences through media platforms, a multi-lingual online portal, catalogues with information about domestic export companies, and a unified corporate style: visual identification systems combining all Russian exports. \nThe concept and logo of ‘Made in Russia’ have been included in the second edition of an international textbook on branding called Nation Branding. Keith Dinnie, the author of the book, is a PhD candidate, an expert on branding, and a leading business school lecturer at Middlesex University in London.\n\nLogo and corporate style \n\"Commercial use of Made in Russia\"\nThe logo for ‘Made in Russia’ is a combination of a bar code and birch bark texture. References to business, goods production and sales, and the rich culture and history of Russian entrepreneurship are all included in the logo.\n\nThe ‘Made in Russia’ logo has been legally registered in all Nice 45 classes (International Classification of Goods and Services).\n\nThe logo and corporate style of ‘Made in Russia’ have already become a visual support element used by Russian exporters in business missions around the world organized by the Russian Ministry for Economic Development.\n\nRights to use the national brand’s logo\n\nCompanies that are registered, pay taxes, and create jobs in Russia are eligible to use the logo. All companies are selected and approved by the project’s expert advisory board. The logo is issued free of charge for a period of one year, with the possibility of extension upon entrance into the ‘Made in Russia’ register.\n\nForeign companies may also qualify for the logo if they have joint ventures in Russia or have localized their business inside the country.\n\nOfficial ‘Made in Russia’ portal\n\nThere is currently a multi-lingual portal www.madeinrussia.ru and media platform for promoting Russian exporters, and catalogues about Russian export companies have also been created.\n\nInternational presentation of the ‘Made in Russia’ national brand\n\nThe ‘Made in Russia’ national brand was presented to the international business community at the Milan EXPO 2015 exhibition. Its presentation comprised part of Made in Russia Day at the Russian pavilion with the participation of Igor Shuvalov, the first deputy prime minister.\n\nIn addition, the project participated as an informational and visual partner in a number of events for Russian exporters both in Russia and abroad. As a result, a number of agreements were signed and contacts made, as well as an assessment of the prospects for exporting Russian products, which included a study of reactions to the new brand.\n\nInternational experience\nNational brands are a common trend in many countries’ foreign policies. Similar promotion programs have been implemented in other nations. The national brands ‘Made in…’ are also available in Germany, Canada, the USA, China, Italy, Belarus, India and other countries.\n\nExpert opinion\n\n“The ‘Made in Russia’ national brand offers a single system for image promotion to domestic exporters that includes a variety of tools to help Russian producers effectively present their products in the process of entering foreign markets.” (Alexey Tyupano, CEO of EXIAR) \n\n“The idea and conception of the ‘Made in Russia’ national brand seemed very interesting to me, and worthy to talk about with readers.” (author of the Nation Brand textbook on branding, Keith Dinnie – a PhD candidate, branding expert, leading business school lecturer at Middlesex University in London) \n\n“The idea of patriotism in our time often turns into clowning... from this point of view, the website www.madeinrussia.ru is interesting. It gives a reasonable attempt, devoid of ridiculous patriotic jingoism, to summarize all brands and people whom our country can be proud of in every field - from Faberge, the jeweler to the tsars, to Igor Butman, the contemporary jazz musician.” (Leonid Kaganov, author and scriptwriter) \n\n“The project aims to support and promote the best domestic achievements in various arenas: science, production, education, business, society, culture, and sports. It brings together companies that are developing their business in Russia and are creating new technologies - be it architecture, marketing, or sales - and through its work, promotes these achievements as a brand of Russian business.” (Irina Dobrokhotova, chairman of the board of directors at Best-Novostroy) \n\n“The ‘Made in Russia’ project is a powerful label integrator whose mission is to gather Russian companies and become a forceful consolidation tool for them. International experience suggests that such initiatives are both strong and promising.” (Alexey Andreyev, managing partner of Depot WPF branding agency) \n\n“The open, cooperative nature of this initiative has been highlighted at the communicative level. It was important for the creator of this idea to show that it’s possible to receive government assistance quickly and easily.” (Elena Yufereva, CEO of Brandson Branding Agency) \n\n"}
{"id": "4895490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4895490", "title": "Mark di Suvero", "text": "Mark di Suvero\n\nMarco Polo \"Mark\" di Suvero (born September 18, 1933 in Shanghai, China) is an abstract expressionist sculptor and 2010 National Medal of Arts recipient.\nMarco Polo di Suvero was born to Matilde Millo di Suvero and Vittorio di Suvero (later known as Victor E.). Di Suvero was one of four children, the eldest being Victor di Suvero. His father was a naval attaché for the Italian government and the family resided in Shanghai until his father was relocated to Tientsin shortly after the birth of the family's last son in 1936.\n\nWith the outbreak of World War II, di Suvero immigrated to San Francisco, California with his family in February 1941 aboard the S.S. \"President Cleveland\".\n\nDi Suvero attended City College of San Francisco from 1953 to 1954, followed by the University of California, Santa Barbara from 1954 to 1955. He began creating sculptures while at UCSB after reflecting that he couldn't make an original contribution in his philosophy major. Under the guidance of Robert Thomas, who allowed di Suvero to take his sculpting course, his work began to flourish. He transferred to the University of California, Berkeley and graduated with a B.A. in philosophy in 1957.\n\nAfter graduating from college, di Suvero moved to New York City in 1957 to pursue a sculpting art career. He worked part-time in construction and began to incorporate wood and metal from demolition sites into his work.\n\nShortly before his first solo exhibition at Green Gallery, di Suvero was involved in a near-fatal elevator accident on March 26, 1960, while working at a construction site. He suffered a broken back and severe spinal injures; doctors believed he wouldn't be able to walk again. While in rehabilitation, he learned to work with an arc welder which became critical for later pieces. He made a recovery in four years and could walk without assistance by 1965. He is one of the sixteen artists included in the book as a result of this accident and the subsequent effect it had upon his health.\n\nDi Suvero was a founding member of the Park Place Gallery in 1963 with Forrest Myers, Leo Valledor, Peter Forakis, among others, until the Gallery's closure on July 31, 1967.\n\nDi Suvero protested the Vietnam War, for which he was twice arrested, before he left the United States in 1971. During his four-year self-exile, he exhibited his works in the Netherlands and Germany, taught at the Università Internazionale dell'Arte, and lived in Chalon-sur-Saône, France where he maintained one of his studios on a barge until 1989. His French barge, \"Rêve de signes\", has since been turned into La Vie des Formes, an atelier for emerging artists, which has been moored at Montceau-les-Mines since 2009.\n\nHe later returned to the United States and opened a studio in Petaluma, California in 1975. While the Petaluma studio is still active, di Suvero moved to New York City and opened a studio there. He founded the Athena Foundation in 1977 and Socrates Sculpture Park in 1986, both of which function to assist artists.\n\nDi Suvero currently lives in the Astoria, Queens neighborhood of New York City with his second wife, Kate D. Levin, whom he married in 1993, and daughter. Levin, a former City College of New York teacher, served as Commissioner of the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs from 2002 to 2013, and has worked under the Ed Koch and Michael Bloomberg administrations. Di Suvero was previously married to architect Maria Teresa Caparrotta, whom he met while living in Italy, but later divorced.\n\nHis early works were large outdoor pieces that incorporated wooden timbers from demolition buildings, tires, scrap metal and structural steel. This exploration has transformed over time into a focus on H-beams and heavy steel plates. Many of the pieces contain sections that are allowed to swing and rotate giving the overall forms a considerable degree of motion. He prides himself on his hands-on approach to the fabrication and installation of his work. Di Suvero pioneered the use of a crane as a sculptor's working tool.\n\nSome of his work includes:\n\nDi Suvero's sculptures and career were the subjects of the 1977 film, \"\". The film was produced by François De Menil and by art historian Barbara Rose, and featured music composed by Philip Glass. The film was released as a DVD in 2012.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53879830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53879830", "title": "Mexicali Biennial", "text": "Mexicali Biennial\n\nThe MexiCali Biennial is a contemporary visual arts organization which focuses on the border between California and Mexico as a region of aesthetic production. The organization is migratory in nature and showcases exhibitions on both sides of the border. The MexiCali Biennial was originally started as a project critiquing the proliferation of international and regional art biennials and as a result may be shown at any time and at any location. The inaugural exhibition was in 2006 and subsequent programming occurred in the years spanning 2009 through 2010 and again in 2013.\n\nThe MexiCali Biennial was conceived in 2006 by artists Ed Gomez and Luis G. Hernandez. Curator Pilar Tompkins-Rivas was a founding member and curator of the inaugural exhibitions. The 2006 round of programming first took place at La Casa de la Tia Tina, an artist-run space on the border town of Mexicali, MX before traveling to Chavez Studios in East Los Angeles. Due to the nature of the biennial's programming, the second biennial didn't occur until 2009 through 2010, during which time it took place in four different locations in both Mexico and California. Dr. Amy Pederson Converse joined the board and served as co-curator for the 2009-2013 programming. Pederson Converse was instrumental in conceptualizing the theme for the third MexiCali Biennial, which was cannibalism, specifically in regard to philosopher 's studies of cultural cannibalism and its relationship to colonialism.\n\nThe 2006 MexiCali Biennial started in the border town of Mexicali, MX, at alternative art and music space La Casa de la Tia Tina before traveling to Chavez Studios in Los Angeles. It included installations and border-crossing interventions by Los Angeles and Mexicali based artists. 2006 California based artists exhibiting in Mexicali:\n2006 Mexico based artists exhibiting in East Los Angeles:\nMusical guests included Lysa Flores, Olin, DJ Santos, DJ Chips and DJ Magallanes. MexiCali Biennial 2006 curators were Ed Gomez, Luis G. Hernandez and Pilar Tompkins-Rivas.\n\nThe second round of programming for the MexiCali Biennial occurred 3 years after the first, spanning two years in four sites in Mexico and California. Venues in Mexico were Casa de Tunel in Tijuana and Mexicali Rose and Sala de Arte UABC in Mexicali. The exhibition culminated in a showcase at OTIS Ben Maltz Gallery in Los Angeles. As with 2006 programming, border interventions, site specific performances and installations occurred along the US/Mexico border, including a soccer game by the artist collective Homeless. MB 09/10 artists:\nMexiCali Biennial 09/10 curators were Ed Gomez, Luis G. Hernandez and Amy Pederson Converse.\n\nThe 2013 programming was the first time that an official theme was conceived for the exhibitions. The theme of Cannibalism was influenced by philosopher Catalin Avramescu's research on the cannibal throughout history, in particular its place in colonialism. MB curator and art historian Amy Pederson Converse states, \"There is no need to draw a line between actual and symbolic anthropophagy; they are part of the same system of meaning. Through ingestion, digestion, and subsumation, the cannibal bridges the gap between political science and moral philosophy, nature and civilization, north, south, east and west, the self and the other.\" Artists chosen for MB 2013 were:\nMusical performance by Los Nuevos Maevans. MexiCali Biennial 2013: Cannibalism in the New World was curated by Ed Gomez, Luis G. Hernandez and Amy Pederson Converse. Exhibitions were hosted by alternative art space Mexicali Rose and Vestibulo de la Facultad de Artes, UABC in Mexicali as well as the Vincent Price Art Museum in Los Angeles.\n\nThe MB 2018/2019 round of programming will examine the character of Calafia and the myth of the island of California.\n"}
{"id": "7089397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7089397", "title": "Mindy Kaling", "text": "Mindy Kaling\n\nVera Mindy Chokalingam (born June 24, 1979), known professionally as Mindy Kaling, is an American actress, comedian, and writer. From 2005 to 2013, she played Kelly Kapoor in the NBC sitcom \"The Office\". In addition to acting in it, she was a writer, executive producer, and occasional director. Recognition for her work on \"The Office\" include a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series in 2010.\n\nKaling gained wider attention for creating, writing, producing and starring in the Fox/Hulu comedy series \"The Mindy Project\" (2012–2017). In 2018, she began serving as the co-creater, writer, and producer for the sitcom \"Champions\", in which she also has a recurring role. Kaling's film career includes voice work in the films \"Despicable Me\" (2010), \"Wreck It Ralph\" (2012), and \"Inside Out\" (2015); and starring roles in the fantasy adventure \"A Wrinkle in Time\" and the heist-comedy \"Ocean's 8\" (both 2018).\n\nIn addition to her work on film and television, Kaling has written two \"New York Times\" best-selling memoirs, titled \"Is Everyone Hanging Out Without Me? (And Other Concerns)\" (2011) and \"Why Not Me?\" (2015).\n\nVera Mindy Chokalingam was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts, to father Avu Chokalingam, an architect, and mother Swati Chokalingam, an obstetrician/gynecologist (OB/GYN). Kaling's parents are from India, and met while working at the same hospital in Nigeria. Her father, of Tamil heritage, was overseeing the building of a wing of the hospital, and her mother, a Bengali, was working as an OB/GYN.\n\nThe family emigrated to the United States in 1979, the same year Kaling was born. Kaling's mother died of pancreatic cancer in 2012. Kaling has one sibling, a brother, Vijay Jojo Chokal-Ingam (an educational consultant).\n\nKaling has said she has never been called Vera, her first name, but has been referred to as Mindy since her mother was pregnant with her while her parents were living in Nigeria. They were already planning to move to the United States and wanted, Kaling said, a \"cute American name\" for their daughter, and liked the name Mindy from the TV show \"Mork & Mindy\". The name Vera is, according to Kaling, the name of the \"incarnation of a Hindu goddess.\" Kaling graduated from Buckingham Browne & Nichols, a private school in Cambridge, in 1997. The following year, she entered Dartmouth College, where she was a member of the improvisational comedy troupe The Dog Day Players and the a cappella group The Rockapellas, was the creator of the comic strip \"Badly Drawn Girl\" in \"The Dartmouth\" (the college's daily newspaper), and was a writer for the \"Dartmouth Jack-O-Lantern\" (the college's humor magazine).\n\nKaling graduated from Dartmouth in 2001 with a bachelor's degree in playwriting. She was a classics major for much of college and studied Latin, a subject she has been learning since the seventh grade.\n\nWhile a 19-year-old sophomore at Dartmouth, Kaling was an intern on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\". Kaling said she was a terrible intern, \"less of a 'make copies' intern and more of a 'stalk Conan' intern.\" Kaling has said that she never saw a family like hers on TV, which gave her a dual perspective she uses in her writing. She thinks the \"everyone against me mentality\" is what she learned as a child of immigrants. She named her \"Mindy Project\" character Mindy Lahiri after author Jhumpa Lahiri.\n\nAfter college, Kaling moved to Brooklyn, New York. Kaling said one of her worst job experiences was as a production assistant for three months on the \"Crossing Over With John Edward\" psychic show. She described it as \"depressing.\" During this same time, Kaling performed stand-up comedy.\n\nKaling devised her stage name after discovering while doing stand-up comedy that emcees would have trouble pronouncing her last name, Chokalingam, and sometimes made jokes about it. She toured solo as well as with Craig Robinson before he was on \"The Office.\"\n\nIn August 2002, Kaling portrayed Ben Affleck in an off-Broadway play called \"Matt & Ben\", which she co-wrote with her best friend from college, Brenda Withers—who played Matt Damon. The play was named one of \"Time\" magazine's \"Top Ten Theatrical Events of The Year\" and was \"a surprise hit\" at the 2002 New York International Fringe Festival. Initially, Withers and Kaling had, \"for their own entertainment, mockingly pretended to be the best friends Matt Damon and Ben Affleck; that pretending spawned \"Matt & Ben\", the goofy play that reimagined how Damon and Affleck came to write the movie \"Good Will Hunting\".\"\n\nKaling wrote a blog, \"Things I've Bought That I Love\", which reemerged on her website on September 29, 2011. The blog was written under the name Mindy Ephron, \"a name Kaling chose because she was amused by the idea of her 20-something Indian-American self as a long-lost Ephron sister.\"\n\nIn 2004, when \"The Office\" producer Greg Daniels was working to adapt \"The Office\" from the BBC TV series of the same name, he hired Kaling as a writer-performer after reading a spec script she wrote. He said, \"She's very original ... If anything feels phony or lazy or passé, she’ll pounce on it.\"\n\nWhen Kaling joined \"The Office\", she was 24 years old and was the only woman on a staff of eight. She took on the role of character Kelly Kapoor, debuting in the series’s second episode, \"Diversity Day.\"\n\nIn a 2007 interview with \"The A.V. Club\", she stated that Kelly is \"an exaggerated version of what I think the upper-level writers believe my personality is.\"\n\nKaling directed \"The Office\" webisode \"The 3rd Floor\". She directed the Season 6 episode titled \"Body Language,\" which marked her television directorial debut. Her contract was set to expire at the end of Season 7. On September 15, 2011, she signed a new contract to stay with the show for Season 8 and was promoted to full executive producer. Her Universal Television contract included a development deal for a new show (eventually titled \"The Mindy Project\"), in which she appears as an actress and contributes as a writer.\n\nKaling and her fellow writers and producers of \"The Office\" were nominated five consecutive times for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series. In 2010, she received a nomination for Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series with Daniels for the episode, \"Niagara.\"\n\nIn 2012, Kaling pitched a single-camera comedy to Fox called \"The Mindy Project\", which Kaling wrote and produced. Fox began airing the series in 2012.\n\nKaling notes that she is sometimes described as a pioneer, as there are not yet very many Indian-American women on television. Fox canceled the series in May 2015 but it was later picked up by Hulu for a 26-episode fourth season and a 16-episode fifth season. In March 2017, Kaling announced that the show's sixth season, due to air starting September 2017, would be the last. The series concluded on 14 November 2017.\n\nKaling's TV appearances include a 2005 episode of \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", playing Richard Lewis's assistant. She is featured on the CD \"Comedy Death-Ray\" and guest-wrote parts of an episode of \"Saturday Night Live\" in April 2006.\n\nAfter her film debut in \"The 40-Year-Old Virgin\" with Steve Carell, Kaling appeared in the film \"Unaccompanied Minors\" as a waitress. In 2007, she held a small part in \"License to Wed\" starring fellow \"The Office\" actors John Krasinski, Angela Kinsey, and Brian Baumgartner. Kaling starred in the 2009 film \"\" as a Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum tour guide and voiced Taffyta Muttonfudge in Disney's animated comedy film \"Wreck-It Ralph\" and Disgust in Pixar's 2015 film \"Inside Out\". In 2011, she played the role of Shira, a doctor who is a roommate and colleague of the main character Emma (played by Natalie Portman) in \"No Strings Attached\". Kaling also made an appearance as Vanetha in \"The Five-Year Engagement\" in 2012.\n\nIn 2017, NBC ordered \"Champions,\" where Kaling is a co-creator, writer, and producer. She had a reoccurring guest role on the show, which premiered Thursday, March 8, 2018 on NBC. It was cancelled after one season.\n\nIn 2018, she played Mrs. Who in \"A Wrinkle in Time\", the live-action Disney adaptation of the novel, and starred alongside Helena Bonham Carter, Sandra Bullock, Cate Blanchett, and Rihanna in \"Ocean's 8\", the all-female version of \"Ocean's Eleven\".\n\nIn 2011, Kaling published a memoir, \"Is Everyone Hanging Out Without Me? (And Other Concerns)\", which appeared on the \"New York Times\" best-seller list. Her second book, \"Why Not Me?\", covers the many events that have happened in her life since 2011, and was published on September 15, 2015. \"Why Not Me?\" launched at No. 1 on the \"New York Times\" best-seller list.\n\nKaling has a close friendship with B.J. Novak, whom she met through writing for \"The Office\". The two dated on and off while writing and acting on the show, sometimes mirroring the on-again, off-again nature of the relationship between their respective characters Ryan Howard and Kelly Kapoor.\n\nIn 2012, Kaling was included in the \"Time\" 100 list of influential people. In 2014, she was named one of \"Glamour\" magazine's Women of the Year.\n\nKaling is a 1% owner of Swansea City A.F.C., a Welsh football team based in Swansea, Wales.\n\nOn December 15, 2017, Kaling gave birth to her daughter Katherine. Kaling has not revealed the identity of the baby's father and at the time of her pregnancy was not romantically linked to anyone publicly.\n\nOn June 10, 2018, she received the honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters from Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire.\n\n\n\nIn 2013, \"Entertainment Weekly\" identified Kaling as one of the \"50 Coolest and Most Creative Entertainers\" in Hollywood. In the same year, Kaling was recognized by \"Time\" as one of the 100 most influential people in the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27443918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27443918", "title": "Orientalism in early modern France", "text": "Orientalism in early modern France\n\nOrientalism in early modern France refers to the interaction of pre-modern France with the Orient, and especially the cultural, scientific, artistic and intellectual impact of these interactions, ranging from the academic field of Oriental studies to Orientalism in fashions in the decorative arts.\n\nThe first attempts to study oriental languages were made by the Church in Rome, with the establishment of the \"Studia Linguarum\" in order to help the Dominicans liberate Christian captives in Islamic lands. The first school was established in Tunis by Raymond Penaforte in the 12th and early 13th century. In 1311, the Council of Vienne decided to create schools for the study of oriental languages in the universities of Paris, Bologna, Oxford, Salamanca and Rome.\n\nFrom the 16th century, the study of oriental languages and cultures was progressively transferred from religious to royal patronage, as Francis I sought an alliance with the Ottoman Empire. Ottoman embassies soon visited France, one in 1533, and another the following year.\nGuillaume Postel became the first French Orientalist after 1536, when he went to Constantinople as a member of the 12-strong French embassy of Jean de La Forêt to the Turkish sultan Suleiman the Magnificent. Postel brought back numerous books in Arabic, either religious or scientific in content (mainly mathematics and medicine), to France.\n\nScientific exchange is thought to have occurred, as numerous works in Arabic, especially pertaining to astronomy were brought back, annotated and studied by Postel. Transmission of scientific knowledge, such as the Tusi-couple, may have occurred on such occasions, at the time when Copernicus was establishing his own astronomical theories.\n\nGuillaume Postel envisioned a world where Muslims, Christians and Jews would be united in harmony under one rule, a message he developed two decades before the Universalist Jean Bodin. He claimed that Islam was only a branch of Christianity, a simple heresy that could be reintegrated into Christianity, in his book \"Alcorani seu legis Mahometi et evangelistarum concordiae liber\" (1543).\n\nPostel also studied languages and sought to identify the common origin of all languages, before Babel. He became Professor of Mathematics and Oriental Languages, as well as the first professor of Arabic, at the Collège royal.\n\nIn 1547, a second embassy was sent by the French king to the Ottoman Empire, led by Gabriel de Luetz. The embassy included numerous scientists, such as the botanist Pierre Belon, naturalist Pierre Gilles d'Albi, the future cosmographer André Thévet, philosopher Guillaume Postel, traveler Nicolas de Nicolay, or the cleric and diplomat Jean de Monluc, who would publish their findings upon their return to France and contribute greatly to the early development of science in France.\n\nKnowledge of the Ottoman Empire allowed French philosophers to make comparative studies between the political systems of different nations. Jean Bodin, one of the first such theorists, declared his admiration for the power and administrative system of the Ottoman Empire. He presented as a model Turkish frugality, the Ottoman system of punishments for looting, and promotion on merit in the Janissaries. Such views would be echoed by 18th century comparative works such as \"L'Espion Turc\" or the \"Lettres persanes\".\n\nFrench novels and tragedies were written with the Ottoman Empire as a theme or background. In 1561, Gabriel Bounin published \"La Soltane\", a tragedy highlighting the role of Roxelane in the 1553 execution of Mustapha, the elder son of Suleiman. This tragedy marks the first time the Ottomans were introduced on stage in France. \"Turquerie\" and chinoiserie were notable fashions that affected a wide range of the decorative arts.\n\nOriental studies continued to take place towards the end of the 16th century, especially with the work of Savary de Brèves, also former French ambassador in Constantinople. Brèves spoke Turkish and Arabic and was famed for his knowledge of Ottoman culture. Through his efforts, Capitulations were signed between Henry IV of France and Sultan Ahmed I on 20 May 1604, giving a marked advantage for French trade, against that of the English and the Venetians. In these capitulations, the protection of the French king over Jerusalem and the Holy Land is also recognized. Brèves was interested in establishing an Arabic printing press under his own account in order to introduce Oriental studies in France. He had Arabic, Turk, Persian and Syriac types cast while in Istanbul. He also brought to France a large collection of Oriental manuscripts. These excellent types, followed those of Guillaume Le Bé at the end of the 16th century.\nWhile in Rome he set up a publishing house, the \"Typographia Savariana\", through which he printed a Latin-Arab bilingual edition of a catechism of Cardinal Bellarmino in 1613, as well as in 1614 an Arabic version of the \"Book of Psalms\". For the editorial work and the translations, Brèves used the services of two Lebanese Maronite priests, former students of the Maronite College, Gabriel Sionita (Jibrā'īl aṣ-Ṣahyūnī) and Victor Scialac (Naṣrallāh Shalaq al-'Āqūrī).\n\nIn 1610–11, Al-Hajari, a Moroccan envoy to France, met with the Orientalist Thomas Erpenius in September 1611 in Paris, and taught him some Classical Arabic. Through the introduction of Erpenius, Al-Hajari also met with the French Arabist Étienne Hubert d'Orléans, who had been a court physician for Moroccan ruler Ahmad al-Mansur in Marrakech from 1598 to 1601.\n\nA protégé of Savary de Brèves, André du Ryer published the first ever translation of the \"Qur'an\" in a vernacular language, \"L'Alcoran de Mahomet\" (1647), and published in the West the first piece of Persian literature \"Gulistan\" (1634).\n\nAccording to McCabe, Orientalism played a key role \"in the birth of science and in the creation of the French Academy of Sciences\".\n\nFrance started to set up numerous consulates throughout the Ottoman realm, in Tripoli, Beirut, Alexandria, and Chios. Intense trade also started to develop, centered on the city of Marseille, called \"the door of the Orient\". In Egypt, French trade was paramount, and Marseille was importing in large quantities linens, carpets, dyes, hides, leather, or waxes. In 1682, the Sultan of Morocco, Moulay Ismail, following the embassy of Mohammed Tenim, allowed consular and commercial establishments, and again in 1699 ambassador Abdallah bin Aisha was sent to Louis XIV.\n\nAn Ottoman embassy was sent to Louis XIII in 1607, and from Mehmed IV to Louis XIV in 1669 in the person of ambassador Müteferrika Süleyman Ağa, who created a sensation at the French court and triggered a fashion for things Turkish. The Orient came to have a strong influence in French literature, as about 50% of French travel guides in the 16th century were dedicated to the Ottoman Empire.\nIn Paris, Suleiman set up a beautiful house where he offered coffee to Parisian society, with waiters dressed in Ottoman style, triggering enthusiastic responses, and starting the fashion for coffee-drinking. Fashionable coffee-shops emerged such as the famous \"Café Procope\", the first coffee-shop of Paris, in 1689. In the French high society wearing turbans and caftans became fashionable, as well as lying on rugs and cushions.\n\nThe establishment of strong diplomatic and commercial relations with the Ottoman Empire through the Capitulations led to French money being drained to the Levant and Persia for the purchase of luxury goods such as knotted-pile carpets. Due to these concerns, and also because French luxury arts had collapsed in the disorders of civil violence in the Wars of Religion, Henri IV attempted to develop French luxury industries that could replace imports. The king provided craftsmen with studios and workshops. These efforts to develop an industry for luxury goods was continued by Louis XIII and Louis XIV.\n\nHenry IV made the earliest attempt at producing substitutes for luxury goods from the Orient. He experimented with planting mulberry trees in the garden of the Palais des Tuileries. Ultimately, silk manufacturing would become one of the major industries of France into the 19th century, and one of the major reasons for the development of France-Japan relations in the 19th century.\n\nDuring the 17th century, from being an importer, France became a net exporter of silk, for example shipping 30,000 pounds sterling worth of silk to England in 1674 alone.\n\nThe Savonnerie manufactory was the most prestigious European manufactory of knotted-pile carpets, enjoying its greatest period circa 1650–1685. The manufactory had its immediate origins in a carpet manufactory established in a former soap factory (French \"savon\") on the Quai de Chaillot downstream of Paris in 1615 by Pierre DuPont, who was returning from the Levant and wrote \"La Stromatourgie, ou Traité de la Fabrication des tapis de Turquie\" (\"Treaty on the manufacture of Turkish carpets\", Paris 1632). Under a patent (\"privilège\") of eighteen years, a monopoly was granted by Louis XIII in 1627 to Pierre Dupont and his former apprentice Simon Lourdet, makers of carpets \"façon de Turquie\" (\"in the manner of Turkey\"). Until 1768, the products of the manufactory remained exclusively the property of the Crown, and \"Savonnerie carpets\" were among the grandest of French diplomatic gifts.\n\nChinese porcelain had long been imported from China, and was a very expensive and desired luxury. Huge amounts of gold were sent from Europe to China to pay for the desired Chinese porcelain wares, and numerous attempts were made to duplicate the material. It is at the Nevers manufactory that Chinese-style blue and white wares were produced for the first time in France, using the faience technique, with production running between 1650 and 1680.\n\nChinese porcelain was collected at the French court from the time of Francis I. Colbert set up the Royal Factory of Saint-Cloud in 1664 in order to make copies (In the original \"Contre-façons\", i.e. \"Fakes\") of \"Indian-style\" porcelain.\n\nFrance was one of the first European countries to produce soft-paste porcelain, and specifically frit porcelain, at the Rouen manufactory in 1673, which was known for this reason as \"Porcelaine française\". These were developed in an effort to imitate high-valued Chinese hard-paste porcelain.\n\nFrance however, only discovered the Chinese technique of hard-paste porcelain through the efforts of the Jesuit Father Francois Xavier d'Entrecolles between 1712 and 1722. Louis XIV had received 1,500 pieces of porcelain from the Siamese Embassy to France in 1686, but the manufacturing secret had remained elusive. The English porcelain-manufacturer Josiah Wedgwood may also have been influenced by the letter of Father d'Entrecolles and his description of Chinese mass-production methods. After this initial period, until the end of the 18th century, French porcelain manufactories would progressively abandon their Chinese designs, to become more French in character.\n\nThe Siamese Embassy to France in 1686 had brought to the Court samples of multicolor Thai \"Ikat\" textiles. These were enthusiastically adopted by the French nobility to become \"Toiles flammées\" or \"Siamoises de Rouen\", often with checkered blue-and-white designs. After the French Revolution and its dislike for foreign luxury, the textiles were named \"Toiles des Charentes\" or cottons of Provence.\n\nTextiles imported from India, types of colored calicoes which were called \"Indiennes\", were also widely adopted and manufactured, especially in Marseille, although there were difficulties in obtaining comparable dyes, especially the red dye madder.\n\nFrench literature also was greatly influenced. The first French version of \"One Thousand and One Nights\" was published in 1704. French authors used the East as a way to enrich their philosophical work, and a pretext to write commentaries on the West: Montesquieu wrote the \"Lettres persanes\", a satirical essay on the West, in 1721, and Voltaire used the Oriental appeal to write \"Zaïre\" (1732) and \"Candide\" (1759). French travelers of the 17th century, such as Jean de Thévenot or Jean-Baptiste Tavernier routinely visited the Ottoman Empire.\n\nBy that time, the Confucian canon had already been translated into Latin by Jesuit missionaries to China's Ming and Qing Empires. Michele Ruggieri's work in the 1580s remained long unpublished but Matteo Ricci and Nicolas Trigault's work \"On the Christian Expedition...\" (Augsburg, 1615), Philippe Couplet and others' \"Confucius, Philosopher of the Chinese\" (Paris, 1687), François Noël's \"Six Classics of the Chinese Empire\" (Prague, 1711), and Jean-Baptiste Du Halde's \"Description of China\" (Paris, 1735) all spoke in glowing terms of the moral and cultural achievements of the Chinese, supposedly reached through the use of reason. It is thought that such works had considerable importance on European thinkers of the period, particularly among the Deists and other philosophical groups of the Enlightenment.\nIn particular, cultural diversity with respect to religious beliefs could no longer be ignored. As Herbert wrote in \"On Lay Religion\" (, 1645):\nMany faiths or religions, clearly, exist or once existed in various countries and ages, and certainly there is not one of them that the lawgivers have not pronounced to be as it were divinely ordained, so that the Wayfarer finds one in Europe, another in Africa, and in Asia, still another in the very Indies.\nStarting with Grosrichard, analogies were also made between the harem, the Sultan's court, oriental despotism, luxury, gems and spices, carpets, and silk cushions with the luxury and vices of France's own monarchy.\n\nBy the end of the 17th century, the first major defeats of the Ottoman Empire reduced the perceived threat in European minds, which led to an artistic craze for things Turkish, \"Turquerie\", just as there was a fashion for Chinese things with \"Chinoiserie\", both of which became constitutive components of the Rococo style. Orientalism started to become hugely popular, first with the works of Jean-Baptiste van Mour, who had accompanied the embassy of Charles de Ferriol to Istanbul 1699 and stayed there until the end of his life in 1737, and later with the works of Boucher and Fragonard.\n\nAccording to historian McCabe, early orientalism profoundly shaped French culture and gave it many of its modern characteristics. In the area of science, she stressed \"the role of Orientalism in the birth of science and in the creation of the French Academy of Science\". In the artistic area, referring to Louis XIV's fashion efforts that contrasted with the contemporary fashion for austere Spanish dress: \"ironically, endorsing oriental sartorial splendor at court gave rise to the creation of 'Frenchness' through fashion, which became an umbrella definition that broke through the class barrier\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22976138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22976138", "title": "Pauline Rita", "text": "Pauline Rita\n\nPauline Rita (c.1842 – 28 June 1920) was an English soprano and actress. During her early career, she was best known for her performances in operettas and comic operas at the Opera Comique and was associated with impresario Richard D'Oyly Carte. Later, she married flautist John Radcliff, and the two performed together for many years.\n\nIn 1872, Rita took part in a joint recital with Charles Santley at St James's Hall, London. In the same year she sang in Handel's oratorio \"Athalia\" in Glasgow, where the local critic was unimpressed: \"Mdlle. Rita has a voice nearly always in tune, but of a shrill and unsympathetic quality, and she indulges from time to time in that fatal \"vibrato\" to which we have so often objected.\" In 1874, she performed in Richard D'Oyly Carte's light opera company at the Opera Comique, in \"The Broken Branch\", an English version of Gaston Serpette's \"La branch cassée\", in which she received better notices: \"Madame Pauline Rita has achieved a triumph in her first appearance on the stage. She possesses a voice of singular flexibility, acts well, and looks attractive.\" In December 1874 she played the lead role of the Prince de Conti in Charles Lecocq's \"Les Prés St. Gervais\" at the Criterion Theatre. The following year, she starred in the title role, Clairette Angot, in a revival of Lecocq's \"La fille de Madame Angot\" at the Opera Comique, which replaced \"La Périchole\" on the bill with \"Trial by Jury\". In October of that year she appeared as Barbara in Alfred Cellier's \"The Tower of London\" at the Prince's Theatre, Manchester.\n\nIn January 1876 at the Royalty Theatre, she appeared under Carte's management as Gustave Muller in \"The Duke's Daughter\". On 5 May 1876, Rita was the beneficiary of a special matinée at the Princess's Theatre at which Selina Dolaro, Mrs. Howard Paul, Arthur Cecil and many others contributed, and Alfred Cellier conducted his operetta \"Dora's Dream\". That summer, she repeated her roles of Gustave Miller and also played the Plaintiff in \"Trial by Jury\" on tour with Carte's Opera Bouffe Company (with Carte himself as musical director). In 1877, at a benefit performance for Henry Compton, described by \"The Era\" as \"undeniably the greatest event known in the annals of the Stage\", Rita played the Plaintiff in a star-studded performance of \"Trial by Jury\", conducted by Arthur Sullivan, with W. S. Gilbert as the Associate, Arthur Cecil as the Usher, W. H. Cummings as the Defendant, and famous performers such as George Grossmith, W. S. Penley, Kate Bishop and Marion Terry in the chorus.\n\nApart from the Plaintiff, Rita played two Gilbert and Sullivan roles – one for D'Oyly Carte and one not. She played Aline in \"The Sorcerer\" on tour in Liverpool in March 1878, and in September 1879 she played Josephine in \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" in the production mounted by Carte's former partners in the Comedy Opera Company after he had separated from them. She never returned to D'Oyly Carte management. During the late 1870s, Rita performed with Charles Morton's opera company at the Opera Comique.\n\nIn 1881, Rita's voice suffered from overwork, and she moved to Australia to rest and stay with family. In January 1884, she married the celebrated flautist, John Radcliff (1842–1917), to whom she had become engaged in London in 1881. Together, they organised a successful three-year tour through Australia and New Zealand in 1884–86. Returning to Britain, they continued to give the programme they had perfected on tour: \"\"Flutes of All Ages\": Mr Radcliff ... playing on twenty different instruments selections from the music of all countries and all times. The entertainment was varied by songs, rendered with finished vocal ability, by Madame Pauline Rita.\" They then developed this show as \"Pan to Pinafore\" and presented it around Britain for several years with great success.\n\nRita undertook some vocal teaching, her success being noted in the press. In later years, she became blind. She died at her home in Kensington, London, after a long illness.\n\n"}
{"id": "22671737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22671737", "title": "Playing for Change", "text": "Playing for Change\n\nPlaying For Change is a multimedia music project, co-founded in 2002 by American music engineer/producer Mark Johnson and film producer/philanthropist Whitney Kroenke, that seeks to inspire, connect, and bring peace to the world through music. Playing For Change also created a separate non-profit organization called the Playing For Change Foundation, which builds music and art schools for children around the world.\n\nPlaying For Change was born in 2002 as a shared vision between co-founders, Mark Johnson and Whitney Kroenke, to hit the streets of America with a mobile recording studio and cameras in search of inspiration and the heartbeat of the people. Producers Johnson and Enzo Buono traveled around the world to places including New Orleans, Barcelona, South Africa, India, Nepal, the Middle East and Ireland. Using mobile recording equipment, the duo recorded local musicians performing the same song, interpreted in their own style. Among the artists participating or openly involved in the project are Vusi Mahlasela, Louis Mhlanga, Clarence Bekker, David Guido Pietroni, Tal Ben Ari (Tula), Bono, Keb' Mo', David Broza, Manu Chao, Grandpa Elliott, Keith Richards, Toots Hibbert from Toots & the Maytals, Taj Mahal and Stephen Marley. This resulted in the award-winning documentary \"A Cinematic Discovery of Street Musicians\".\n\nIn 2005, Mark Johnson was walking in Santa Monica, California, when he heard the voice of Roger Ridley (now deceased) singing \"Stand By Me.\" Roger had so much soul and conviction in his voice, and Mark approached him about performing \"Stand By Me\" as a Song Around The World. Roger agreed, and when Mark returned with recording equipment and cameras he asked Roger, \"With a voice like yours, why are you singing on the streets?\" Roger replied, \"Man I’m in the Joy business, I come out to be with the people.\" Ever since that day, the Playing For Change crew has traveled the world recording and filming musicians, creating Songs Around The World, and building a global family.\n\nCreating Songs Around The World inspired the PFC crew to unite many of the greatest musicians they met throughout their journey through the creation of the Playing For Change Band. These musicians come from many different countries and cultures, but through music they speak the same language. The PFC Band is now touring the world and spreading the message of love and hope to audiences everywhere.\n\nThe founders of Playing For Change created the Playing For Change Foundation, a separate 501(c)3 nonprofit organization dedicated to building music and art schools for children around the world, and creating hope and inspiration for the future of our planet.\n\nPFC videos have exceeded an estimated 500 million online views, continuing to grow steadily through active & dedicated community members from 195 countries.\n\n● Has recorded more than 1,000 musicians from 50+ countries\n\n● Has worked with Bono (from the band U2), Keith Richards (from the band The Rolling Stones), Manu Chao, Toots Hibbert, Ziggy Marley, Keb' Mo', Baaba Maal, Char, Tinariwen, Los Lobos, Jackson Browne, Taj Mahal, Jimmy Buffett, Sara Bareilles, Maroon 5, Robert Plant, John Densmore, Stephen Marley, Bombino, Bill Kreutzmann (from the band Grateful Dead), David Crosby, Chad Smith (from the Red Hot Chili Peppers), Jason Mraz, Josh Groban, Jake Shimabukuro, Yo-Yo Ma, Citizen Cope, Bernie Williams, Trombone Shorty, Buddy Guy, The Doobie Brothers (Tom Johnston, John McFee and Pat Simmons), Jack Johnson, Ben Harper, Tom Morello, James Gadson, Pancho Amat, Warren Haynes, Ivan and Cyril Neville, Rocky Dawuni, Jon Cleary, Donald Kinsey, Lee Oskar (from the band War), Dr. John, and Robbie Robertson.\n\n● PFC “Daylight” video made for Maroon 5 was #1 on VH1 and MTV top 20 video countdown\n\n● PFC Song Around The World “Ripple” in honor of the Grateful Dead’s 50th Anniversary premiered at their final “Fare Thee Well” concert in Chicago.\n\nTen musicians from ten countries play together onstage as a tangible representation of our mission to inspire, connect, and bring peace to the world through music.\n\n● More than 300 performances in over 13 countries since 2008\n\n● \"Tonight Show with Jay Leno\" and with Conan O'Brien, Globo TV (Brazil) appearance to over 25 million viewers\n\n● Skoll Forum, Starbucks Shareholders meeting, Google/YouTube major event, Hollywood Bowl, Caja Magica, New Orleans Jazz Festival, Belo Horizonte Festival, Glastonbury Festival England, DirectTV Arena Argentina, Byron Bay Bluesfest (4x), 3 World Economic Forums, and the United Nations (3x)\n\n● Opener for Robert Plant for his Australian tour\n\n● Collaborated with Toots & the Maytals, Ziggy Marley, Keb' Mo', Baaba Maal, and Tinariwen, Jimmy Buffett, Jackson Browne, Taj Mahal, The Doobie Brothers, Little Feat, and many more.\n\nThe Playing for Change Foundation is a non-profit organization 501(c)3, dedicated to creating and supporting music schools, principally in developing countries.\nThree music schools and a total of twelve music programs have been created since 2008:\n\nIn 2011, the Playing For Change Foundation established an annual Playing For Change Day. The goal of Playing For Change Day is to \"unite a global community through the power of music to affect positive social change\". In 2012, the PFC Day consisted of over 330 events across 52 countries and helped raise over $150,000 for the Playing For Change Foundation, and in 2014, PFC Day saw over 400 events in 60 countries. It is held on the Saturday nearest the United Nations' International Day of Peace, which takes place each year on Sept. 21. In 2015, Playing for Change Day was celebrated on September 19. The sixth-annual Playing for Change Day was on September 24, 2016.\n\nIn 2013, the Foundation introduced the Stand by Me Scholarship program, allowing people to sponsor a child to learn music for an entire year. Scholarships are need-based and are given to children who could not participate otherwise. Donors can either make a one-time gift to fund a student, or set up monthly contributions.\n"}
{"id": "25353172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25353172", "title": "Poet", "text": "Poet\n\nA poet is a person who creates poetry. Poets may describe themselves as such or be described as such by others. A poet may simply be a writer of poetry, or may perform their art to an audience.\n\nThe work of a poet is essentially one of communication, either expressing ideas in a literal sense, such as writing about a specific event or place, or metaphorically. Poets have existed since antiquity, in nearly all languages, and have produced works that vary greatly in different cultures and periods. Throughout each civilization and language, poets have used various styles that have changed through the course of literary history, resulting in a history of poets as diverse as the literature they have produced.\n\nIn Ancient Rome, professional poets were generally sponsored by patrons, wealthy supporters including nobility and military officials. For instance, Gaius Cilnius Maecenas, friend to Caesar Augustus, was an important patron for the Augustan poets, including both Horace and Virgil.\n\nPoets held an important position in pre-Islamic Arabic society with the poet or \"sha'ir\" filling the role of historian, soothsayer and propagandist. Words in praise of the tribe (\"qit'ah\") and lampoons denigrating other tribes (\"hija\"') seem to have been some of the most popular forms of early poetry. The \"sha'ir\" represented an individual tribe's prestige and importance in the Arabian peninsula, and mock battles in poetry or \"zajal\" would stand in lieu of real wars. 'Ukaz, a market town not far from Mecca, would play host to a regular poetry festival where the craft of the \"sha'irs\" would be exhibited.\n\nIn the High Middle Ages, troubadors were an important class of poets and came from a variety of backgrounds. They lived and travelled in many different places and were looked upon as actors or musicians as much as poets. They were often under patronage, but many travelled extensively.\n\nThe Renaissance period saw a continuation of patronage of poets by royalty. Many poets, however, had other sources of income, including \nItalians like Dante Aligheri, Giovanni Boccaccio and Petrarch's works in a pharmacist's guild and William Shakespeare's work in the theater.\n\nIn the Romantic period and onwards, many poets were independent writers who made their living through their work, often supplemented by income from other occupations or from family. This included poets such as William Wordsworth and Robert Burns.\n\nPoets such as Virgil in the Aeneid and John Milton in Paradise Lost invoked the aid of a Muse.\n\nPoets of earlier times were often well read and highly educated people while others were to a large extent self-educated. A few poets such as John Gower and John Milton were able to write poetry in more than one language. Some Portuguese poets, as Francisco de Sá de Miranda, wrote not only in Portuguese but also in Spanish. Jan Kochanowski wrote in Polish and in Latin, France Prešeren and Karel Hynek Mácha wrote some poems in German, although they were poets of Slovenian and Czech respectively. Adam Mickiewicz, the greatest poet of Polish language, wrote a Latin ode for emperor Napoleon III. Another example is Jerzy Pietrkiewicz, a Polish poet. When he moved to Great Britain, he ceased to write poetry in Polish, but started writing novel in English. He also translated poetry from English and into English.\n\nMany universities offer degrees in creative writing though these only came into existence in the 20th century. While these courses are not necessary for a career as a poet, they can be helpful as training, and for giving the student several years of time focused on their writing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "479154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479154", "title": "Police procedural", "text": "Police procedural\n\nThe police procedural, or police crime drama, is a subgenre of detective fiction that emphasizes the investigative procedure of a police officer or department as the protagonist(s), as contrasted with other genres that focus on a private investigator or amateur detective. Unlike traditional mysteries, which conceal the criminal's identity until the police solve the crime in the narrative climax (the so-called whodunnit), police procedurals often reveal the perpetrator's identity to the audience early in the narrative, making it an inverted detective story or \"howcatchem\" . Police procedurals attempt to accurately depict such police-related topics as forensic science, autopsies, gathering evidence, search warrants, interrogation and adherence to legal restrictions and procedure.\n\nThe roots of the police procedural have been traced to at least the mid-1880's. Wilkie Collins's novel \"The Moonstone\" (1868), a tale of a Scotland Yard detective investigating the theft of a valuable diamond, has been described as perhaps the earliest clear example of the genre.\n\nAs detective fiction rose to worldwide popularity in the late 1800's and early 1900's, many of the pioneering and most popular characters, at least in the English-speaking world, were private investigators or amateurs. See C. Auguste Dupin, Sherlock Holmes, Sam Spade, Miss Marple and others. Hercule Poirot was described as a veteran of the Belgian police but as a protagonist he worked independently. Only after WW2 would police procedural fiction rival the popularity of PIs or amateur sleuths.\n\nLawrence Treat's 1945 novel \"V as in Victim\" is often cited as the first police procedural, by Anthony Boucher (mystery critic for the \"New York Times Book Review\") among others. Another early example is Hillary Waugh's \"Last Seen Wearing ...\", 1952. Even earlier examples from the 20th Century, predating Treat, include the novels \"Vultures in the Dark\", 1925, and \"The Borrowed Shield\", 1925, by Richard Enright, retired New York City Police Commissioner, \"Harness Bull\", 1937, and \"Homicide\", 1937, by former Southern California police officer Leslie T. White, \"P.C. Richardson's First Case\", 1933, by Sir Basil Thomson, former Assistant Commissioner of Scotland Yard, and the short story collection \"Policeman's Lot\", 1933, by former Buckinghamshire High Sheriff and Justice of the Peace Henry Wade.\n\nThe procedural became more prominent after World War II, and, while the contributions of novelists like Treat were significant, a large part of the impetus for the post-war development of the procedural as a distinct subgenre of the mystery was due, not to prose fiction, but to the popularity of a number of American films which dramatized and fictionalized actual crimes. Dubbed \"semidocumentary films\" by movie critics, these motion pictures, often filmed on location, with the cooperation of the law enforcement agencies involved in the actual case, made a point of authentically depicting police work. Examples include \"The Naked City\" (1948), \"The Street with No Name\" (1948), \"T-Men\" (1947), \"He Walked by Night\" (1948), and \"Border Incident\" (1949).\n\nFilms from other countries soon began following the semi-documentary trend. In France, there was \"Quai des orfevres\" (1947), released in the United States as \"Jenny Lamour\". In Japanese cinema, there was Akira Kurosawa's 1949 film \"Stray Dog\", a serious police procedural film noir that was also a precursor to the buddy cop film genre. In the UK, there were films such as \"The Blue Lamp\" (1950) and \"The Long Arm\" (1956) set in London and depicting the Metropolitan Police.\n\nOne semidocumentary, \"He Walked By Night\" (1948), released by Eagle-Lion Films, featured a young radio actor named Jack Webb in a supporting role. The success of the film, along with a suggestion from LAPD Detective Sergeant Marty Wynn, the film's technical advisor, gave Webb an idea for a radio drama that depicted police work in a similarly semi-documentary manner. The resulting series, \"Dragnet\", which debuted on radio in 1949 and made the transition to television in 1951, has been called \"the most famous procedural of all time\" by mystery novelists William L. DeAndrea, Katherine V. Forrest and Max Allan Collins.\n\nThe same year that \"Dragnet\" debuted on radio, Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Sidney Kingsley's stage play \"Detective Story\" opened on Broadway. This frank, carefully researched dramatization of a typical day in an NYPD precinct detective squad became another benchmark in the development of the police procedural.\n\nOver the next few years, the number of novelists who picked up on the procedural trend grew to include writers like Ben Benson, who wrote carefully researched novels about the Massachusetts State Police, retired police officer Maurice Procter, who wrote a series about North England cop Harry Martineau, and Jonathan Craig, who wrote short stories and novels about New York City police officers. Police novels by writers who would come to virtually define the form, like Hillary Waugh, Ed McBain, and John Creasey started to appear regularly.\n\nIn 1956, in his regular \"New York Times Book Review\" column, mystery critic Anthony Boucher, noting the growing popularity of crime fiction in which the main emphasis was the realistic depiction of police work, suggested that such stories constituted a distinct subgenre of the mystery, and, crediting the success of \"Dragnet\" for the rise of this new form, coined the phrase \"police procedural\" to describe it.\n\nEd McBain, the pseudonym of Evan Hunter, wrote dozens of novels in the \"87th Precinct\" series beginning with \"Cop Hater,\" published in 1956. Hunter continued to write 87th Precinct novels almost until his death in 2005. Although these novels focus primarily on Detective Steve Carella, they encompass the work of many officers working alone and in teams, and Carella is not always present in any individual book.\n\nAs if to illustrate the universality of the police procedural, many of McBain's 87th Precinct novels, despite their being set in a slightly fictionalized New York City, have been filmed in settings outside New York, even outside the US. Akira Kurosawa's 1963 film, \"High and Low\", based on McBain's \"King's Ransom\" (1959), is set in Tokyo. \"Without Apparent Motive\" (1972), set on the French Riviera, is based on McBain's \"Ten Plus One\" (1963). Claude Chabrol's \"Les Liens de Sang\" (1978), based on \"Blood Relatives\" (1974), is set in Montreal. Even \"Fuzz\" (1972), based on the 1968 novel, though set in the US, moves the action to Boston.\n\nPerhaps ranking just behind McBain in importance to the development of the procedural as a distinct mystery subgenre is John Creasey, a prolific writer of many different kinds of crime fiction, from espionage to criminal protagonist. He was inspired to write a more realistic crime novel when his neighbor, a retired Scotland Yard detective, challenged Creasey to \"write about us as we are.\" The result was \"Inspector West Takes Charge\", 1940, the first of more than forty novels to feature Roger West of the London Metropolitan Police. The West novels were, for the era, an unusually realistic look at Scotland Yard operations, but the plots were often wildly melodramatic, and, to get around thorny legal problems, Creasey gave West an \"amateur detective\" friend who was able to perform the extra-procedural acts that West, as a policeman, could not.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, inspired by the success of television's \"Dragnet\" and a similar British TV series, \"Fabian of the Yard\", Creasey decided to try a more down-to-earth series of cop stories. Adopting the pseudonym \"J.J. Marric\", he wrote \"Gideon's Day\", 1955, in which George Gideon, a high-ranking detective at Scotland Yard, spends a busy day supervising his subordinates' investigations into several unrelated crimes. This novel was the first in a series of more than twenty books which brought Creasey his best critical notices. One entry, \"Gideon's Fire\", 1961, won an Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America for Best Mystery Novel. The Gideon series, more than any other source, helped establish the common procedural plot structure of threading several autonomous story lines through a single novel.\n\nMaj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö planned and wrote the Martin Beck police procedural series of ten books between the 1960s and 1970s, set in Sweden. The series is particularly renowned for its extensive character development throughout the series. Beck himself is gradually promoted from detective in a newly nationalised Swedish police force to Chief Inspector of the National Murder Squad, and the realistic depiction, as well as criticism of the Swedish welfare state at the time whilst the tedium of the police procedural continues in the background, is something still widely used today, with authors such as Jo Nesbø and Stieg Larsson. The books gave rise to the Swedish noir scene, and \"The Laughing Policeman\" earned a \"Best Novel\" Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America in 1971. The books were translated from Swedish into 35 different languages, and have sold roughly ten million copies. Sjöwall and Wahlöö used black humour extensively in the series, and it is widely recognised as one of the finest police procedural series.\n\nA prolific author of police procedurals, whose work has fallen out of fashion in the years since her death, is Elizabeth Linington writing under her own name, as well as \"Dell Shannon\" and \"Lesley Egan.\" Linington reserved her Dell Shannon pseudonym primarily for procedurals featuring LAPD Central Homicide Lieutenant Luis Mendoza (1960–86). Under her own name she wrote about Sergeant Ivor Maddox of LAPD's North Hollywood Station, and as Lesley Egan she wrote about suburban cop Vic Varallo. These novels are often considered severely flawed, partly due to the author's far-right political viewpoint (she was a proud member of the John Birch Society), but primarily because Miss Linington's books, notwithstanding the frequent comments she made about the depth of her research, were all seriously deficient in the single element most identified with the police procedural, technical accuracy. However, they have a certain charm in their depiction of a kinder, gentler California, where the police were always \"good guys\" who solved all the crimes and respected the citizenry.\n\nIt has been suggested that the \"Inspector Maigret\" novels of Georges Simenon aren't really procedurals because of their strong focus on the lead character, but the novels have always included subordinate members of his staff as supporting characters. More importantly, Simenon, who had been a journalist covering police investigations before creating Maigret, was giving an accurate depiction, or at least the appearance of an accurate depiction, of law enforcement in Paris. Further, Simenon's influence on later European procedural writers, like Sweden's Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö, or Baantjer, is obvious.\n\nThough not the first police officer to write procedurals, Joseph Wambaugh's success has caused him to become the exemplar of cops who turn their professional experiences into fiction. The son of a Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, policeman, Wambaugh joined the Los Angeles Police Department after a stint of military duty. In 1970, his first novel, \"The New Centurions\", was published. This followed three police officers through their training in the Academy, their first few years on the street, culminating in the Watts riots of 1965. It was followed by such novels as \"The Blue Knight\", 1971, \"The Choirboys\", 1975, \"Hollywood Station\", 2006, and acclaimed non-fiction books like \"The Onion Field\", 1973, \"Lines and Shadows\", 1984, and \"Fire Lover\", 2002. Wambaugh has said that his main purpose is less to show how cops work on the job, than how the job works on cops.\n\nTony Hillerman, the author of 17 novels involving Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn, wrote procedurals in which the procedures were those of the Navajo Tribal Police.\n\nIt is difficult to disentangle the early roots of the procedural from its forebear, the traditional detective novel, which often featured a police officer as protagonist. By and large, the better known novelists such as Ngaio Marsh produced work that falls more squarely into the province of the traditional or \"cozy\" detective novel. Nevertheless, some of the work of authors less well known today, like Freeman Wills Crofts's novels about Inspector French or some of the work of the prolific team of G.D.H. and Margaret Cole, might be considered as the antecedents of today's police procedural. British mystery novelist and critic Julian Symons, in his 1972 history of crime fiction, \"Bloody Murder\", labeled these proto-procedurals \"humdrums,\" because of their emphasis on the plodding nature of the investigators.\n\n\n\n\nRex frequently saved the team's necks during pursuits and catching criminals, sniffing out clues, rescuing child victims, as well as occasionally being a nuisance around the office or while interviewing suspects.\nThe show mixes series themes with occasional comedy, such as Rex's penchant for ham rolls (wurstsemmeln), demanding to buy many dog toys, and interfering with Moser's & Brandtner's erratic love lives.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe comic strip \"Dick Tracy\" is often pointed to as an early procedural. Indeed, in his introduction to a 1970 collection of \"Tracy\" strips entitled \"The Celebrated Cases of Dick Tracy\", no less an authority than Ellery Queen suggested that Tracy, predating Webb, Treat, Creasey, and McBain, was the first \"truly\" procedural policeman in any fictional medium.\n\nCertainly \"Tracy\" creator Chester Gould seemed to be trying to reflect the real world. Tracy himself, conceived by Gould as a \"modern-day Sherlock Holmes\", was partly modeled on real-life law enforcer Eliot Ness, and his first, and most frequently recurring, antagonist, the Big Boy, was based on Ness's real-life nemesis Al Capone. Other members of Tracy's Rogues Gallery, like Boris Arson, Flattop Jones, and Maw Famon, were inspired, respectively, by John Dillinger, Charles \"Pretty Boy\" Floyd, and Kate \"Ma\" Barker.\n\nMore to the point, Gould was making a genuine attempt to portray police work realistically. Once \"Tracy\" was sold to the \"Chicago Tribune\" syndicate, Gould enrolled in a criminology class at Northwestern University, met with members of the Chicago Police Department, and did research at the Department's crime lab, to make his depiction of law enforcement more authentic. Ultimately, he hired retired Chicago policeman Al Valanis, a pioneering forensic sketch artist, as both an artistic assistant and police technical advisor.\n\nLater stories, in which Gould veered into space opera and extraterrestrial contacts, mitigated somewhat against the strip's being recognized for its early use of realistic police procedure, but any examination of the \"Tracy\" strip from its beginnings in 1931 through the 1950s makes Gould's status as a pioneer in the police procedural subgenre clear.\n\nThe success of \"Tracy\" led to many more police strips. While some, like Norman Marsh's \"Dan Dunn\" were unabashedly slavish imitations of \"Tracy\", others, like Dashiell Hammett's and Alex Raymond's \"Secret Agent X-9\", took a more original approach. Still others, like Eddie Sullivan's and Charlie Schmidt's \"Radio Patrol\" and Will Gould's \"Red Barry\", steered a middle course. One of the best post-\"Tracy\" procedural comics was \"Kerry Drake\", written and created by Allen Saunders and illustrated by Alfred Andriola. It diverged from the metropolitan settings used in \"Tracy\" to tell the story of the titular Chief Investigator for the District Attorney of a small-town jurisdiction. Later, following a personal tragedy, he leaves the DA's Office and joins his small city's police force in order to fight crime closer to the grass roots level. As both a DA's man and a city cop, he fights a string of flamboyant, Gould-ian criminals like \"Stitches\", \"Bottleneck\", and \"Bulldozer.\"\n\nOther syndicated police strips include Zane Grey's \"King of the Royal Mounted\", depicting police work in the contemporary Canadian Northwest, Lank Leonard's \"Mickey Finn\", which emphasized the home life of a hard-working cop, and \"Dragnet\", which adapted stories from the pioneering radio-TV series into comics. Early comic books with police themes tended to be reprints of syndicated newspaper strips like \"Tracy\" and \"Drake\". Others adapted police stories from other mediums, like the radio-inspired anthology comic \"Gang Busters\", Dell's \"87th Precinct\" issues, which adapted McBain's novels, or \"The Untouchables\", which adapted the fictionalized TV adventures of real-life policeman Eliot Ness.\n\nMore recently, there have been attempts to depict police work with the kind of hard-edged realism seen in the novels of writers like Wambaugh, such as Marvel's four-issue mini-series \"Cops: The Job\", in which a rookie police officer learns to cope with the physical, emotional, and mental stresses of law enforcement during her first patrol assignment. With superheroes having long dominated the comic book market, there have been some recent attempts to integrate elements of the police procedural into the universe of costumed crime-fighters. \"Gotham Central\", for example, depicts a group of police detectives operating in Batman's Gotham City, and suggested that the caped crime-fighter is disliked by many Gotham detectives for treading on their toes. Meanwhile, \"Metropolis SCU\" tells the story of the Special Crimes Unit, an elite squad of cops in the police force serving Superman's Metropolis.\n\nThe use of police procedural elements in superhero comics can partly be attributed to the success of Kurt Busiek's groundbreaking 1994 series \"Marvels\", and his subsequent \"Astro City\" work, both of which examine the typical superhero universe from the viewpoint of the common man who witnesses the great dramas from afar, participating in them tangentially at best.\n\nIn the wake of Busiek's success, many other writers mimicked his approach, with mixed results – the narrative possibilities of someone who does not get involved in drama are limited. In 2000, however, Image Comics published the first issue of Brian Michael Bendis's comic \"Powers\", which followed the lives of homicide detectives as they investigated superhero-related cases. Bendis's success has led both Marvel Comics and DC Comics to begin their own superhero-themed police procedurals (\"District X\" and the aforementioned \"Gotham Central\"), which focus on how the job of a police officer is affected by such tropes as secret identities, superhuman abilities, costumes, and the near-constant presence of vigilantes.\n\nWhile the detectives in \"Powers\" were \"normal\" (unpowered) humans dealing with super-powered crime, Alan Moore and Gene Ha's \"Top 10\" mini-series, published by America's Best Comics in 2000–01, centered around the super-powered police force in a setting where powers are omnipresent. The comic detailed the lives and work of the police force of Neopolis, a city in which everyone, from the police and criminals to civilians, children and even pets, has super-powers, colourful costumes and secret identities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57769604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57769604", "title": "Portrait of Francisco de Pisa", "text": "Portrait of Francisco de Pisa\n\nPortrait of Francisco de Pisa is a 1614 painting by El Greco, now in the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas. Most art historians identify it as doctor Francisco de Pisa, a Spanish cleric, though a minority identify it as the Italian historian Giacomo Bosio due to the words shown in the open book. Francisco de Pisa was an enemy of Teresa of Ávila, who he criticised because he felt that her works contained \"much that contradicts truth and sound doctrine and all good use of mental prayer\". The pose of the subject is similar to that in \"Portrait of Cardinal Tavera\", which is of a similar date.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57781825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57781825", "title": "Remember Pearl Harbor (slogan)", "text": "Remember Pearl Harbor (slogan)\n\nRemember Pearl Harbor was a slogan or saying popular in the United States after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941.\n\nIt was also the name of a song by artist Sammy Kaye, sometimes cited as \"Let's Remember Pearl Harbor,\" recorded ten days after the outbreak of the war.\n\n"}
{"id": "8158836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8158836", "title": "Santa Fe Indian Market", "text": "Santa Fe Indian Market\n\nThe Santa Fe Indian Market is an annual art market held in Santa Fe, New Mexico on the weekend following the third Thursday in August. The event draws an estimated 150,000 people to the city from around the world. The Southwestern Association for Indian Arts (SWAIA) organizes the market, showcasing work from 1,200 of the top Native American artists from tribes across the country. \n\nIndian Market was organized by Kenneth Chapman in 1922 as part of an expanded Fiesta de Santa Fe sponsored by the Museum of New Mexico. In 1936, the New Mexico Association on Indian Affairs took over the event. Today, the Southwestern Association for Indian Arts organizes the market.\n\nThe market features pottery, jewelry, textile weavings, painting, sculpture, beadwork, basketry, and other traditional and contemporary work. It is the oldest and largest juried Native American art showcase in the world. The economic impact of the Market has been calculated at more than $19 million.\n\nArtists display their work in booths around the Santa Fe Plaza and adjacent streets, selling directly to the general public. In order to participate, all artists must provide proof of enrollment in one of the federally recognized tribes, and their work must meet strict quality and authentic materials standards. Art experts judge the work and distribute awards and prize money in various categories. On the evening before the Market's opening, members of SWAIA may attend a preview of representative works by the artists as well as the winners in each category. It is a way for potential buyers to preview the winning artworks and items for sale. Many buyers make a point of arriving downtown very early in the morning, and it is not unusual to find artists having sold out within a few hours.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4661486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4661486", "title": "Shearing layers", "text": "Shearing layers\n\nShearing layers is a concept coined by architect Frank Duffy, which was later elaborated by Stewart Brand in his book, \"How Buildings Learn: What Happens After They’re Built\" (Brand, 1994), and refers to buildings as composed of several layers of change. The concept has been adopted by a number of technology vendors to also describe the different layers of systems within an organisation.\n\nThe Shearing layers concept views buildings as a set of components that evolve in different timescales; Frank Duffy summarized this view in his phrase: “Our basic argument is that there isn't any such thing as a building. A building properly conceived is several layers of longevity of built components” (quoted in (Brand, 1994)).\n\nThe layers are (quoted from Brand, 1994):\n\n\nThe concept is based on the work of ecologists (O’Neill et al., 1985) and systems theorists (Salthe, 1993). The idea is that there are processes in nature, which operate in different timescales and as a result there is little or no exchange of energy/mass/information between them. Brand transferred this intuition to buildings and noticed that traditional buildings were able to adapt because they allowed “slippage” of layers: i.e. faster layers (services) were not obstructed by slower ones (structure).\n\nThe concept of Shearing Layers leads to an architectural design principle, known as Pace-Layering, which arranges the layers to allow for maximum adaptability.\n\nThe technology advisory firm Gartner uses the term pace layering in its variation of the shearing layer concept. They describe how within organisations there are different layers of software applications. Applications which need to adapt and change at different speeds. They refer to these layers as Systems of Record, Systems of Differentiation and Systems of Innovation. Their proposition is that firms need to look at how these application layers are governed, managed, sourced, maintained and interact to enable companies to better adapt and react to changing business requirements. Gartner have trade marked this variant/adaptation of pace layering in connection with how companies should manage their application portfolio, referring to is as the PACE layered application strategy (trademark).\nThe Shearing Layers concept has been applied to other man-made artifacts such as software (Simmonds et al., 2000; Papantoniou et al., 2003) or the web (Campbell & Fast, 2006).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11055223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11055223", "title": "Soleto Map", "text": "Soleto Map\n\nThe Soleto Map is a possibly ancient map, which depicts Salento on a small piece of ostrakon derived from a terracotta vase. However, while the ostrakon is undoubtedly ancient, doubts have been raised about the age of the map.\n\nThe map was discovered in Soleto (southern Italy) by Belgian archaeologist Thierry van Compernolle of Montpellier University on August 21, 2003. The map itself dates back to 500 BC and contains letters derived from a Greek script. The languages expressed on the map are both Greek and Messapian. Moreover, the Soleto Map describes the city of Taranto (called Taras), as well as other cities of Salento such as Soleto, Leuca, Ugento, and Otranto. The map went on public display in 2005 at the Archaeological National Museum of Taranto.\n\nEven though the Soleto Map is considered the oldest map in Western civilization, there are allegations that it is a forgery. In the January/February 2006 issue of the Dutch newspaper \"Geschiedenis Magazine\", Dutch archaeologist Douwe Yntema of Vrije University in Amsterdam found the authenticity of the map questionable. Even though the ostrakon is ancient, the authenticity of the engravings are dubious. According to Yntema, the map looks like a school atlas with placenames engraved with \"north\" at the top. Moreover, the Soleto Map shows the towns as points rather than house symbols found on other ancient maps. Finally, the engravings follow the precise borders of the ostrakon itself, which can lead anyone to interpret the Soleto Map as being made after the terracotta vase was first broken.\n"}
{"id": "4723180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4723180", "title": "StreetWars", "text": "StreetWars\n\nStreetWars is a three-week-long water gun \"assassination\" tournament that travels to cities around the world. Created by Franz Aliquo and Liao Yutai, the tournament is based on the college and high school game Assassin.\n\nThe June 2007 issue of \"Maxim\" magazine has an article written by one of the participants of the 2006 London Streetwar.\n\nThe tournament is loosely based on the game Assassin, popular among some high school and college students. Aliquo and Liao took the game citywide and opened it to anyone above the age of 18, and changed it to a 3 week long, 24/7 format. Featured in the book \"Spray,\" by Harry Edge, as a tournament known as Water Wars, with different directors than the actual game.\n\nThe first StreetWars took place in the summer of 2004 in New York City; subsequent tournaments took place in Vancouver (2004), Vienna (2004), New York City (2005, 2006, 2008, 2009), San Francisco (2005, 2007, 2010), Los Angeles (2006), London (2006, 2007,2010), Chicago (2007), and Paris (2007).\n\nIn July 2005, when asked of his opinion on StreetWars, Mayor Mike Bloomberg of New York City said that the creators of StreetWars could probably 'use some psychiatric help'.\n\nBefore the start of the game in London in July 2006, police voiced concerns that the associated suspicious activities might lead to deployment of officers and waste of resources.\n\nWhile StreetWars was created by Aliquo and Liao, the tournament itself is operated by an organization that calls itself \"The Shadow Government\", led by two mysterious figures known only as \"Supreme Commander\" and \"Mustache Commander\". His signature is a fedora, mandarin gown, pipe, bottle of Jack Daniels, and mustache. The \"Mustache Commander\" is the fictional alter ego of Yutai Liao, and the \"Supreme Commander\" – of Franz Aliquo.\n\nAlter ego of StreetWars co-creator, Yutai Liao, Mustache Commander made his first appearance in StreetWars during the San Francisco 2005 game. Previous to the SF 2005 game, there has only been the Supreme Commander and the mysterious \"Assigner\".\n\nThe now famous giant bottle of Jack Daniel's that greets each and every player at the beginning of every tournament, started with the second appearance of the Mustache Commander (the first was with his signature fedora), in an underground tunnel in Golden Gate Park in the SF 2005 tournament. The Mustache Commander is now often portrayed with a bottle of Jack Daniel's in hand.\n\nThe 'Champion' is the last assassin standing at the end of the three-week regulation period, or the winner of the sudden death tournament. \n\nAll games have ended in Sudden Death unless noted.\n\nThis award goes to the assassin with the most successful hits.\n\nA golden framed mustache from the Mustache Commander's own personal collection of mustaches, The Golden Mustache Award was first created in the London 2006 game as a reward for the assassin who successfully completes a contract placed on the heads of a wayward team by the Mustache Commander. The award has since been repurposed to live on in future games to acknowledge general excellence in the field of battle.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1560690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1560690", "title": "Sword swallowing", "text": "Sword swallowing\n\nSword swallowing is a skill in which the performer passes a sword through the mouth and down the esophagus to the stomach. This feat is not swallowing in the traditional sense; the natural processes that constitute swallowing do not take place, but are repressed in order to keep the passage from the mouth to the stomach open for the sword. The practice is dangerous and there is risk of injury or death.\n\nSword swallowing spread to Greece and Rome in the 1st century AD and to China in the 8th century. In Japan, it became a part of the Japanese acrobatic theatre, Sangaku, which included fire eating, tightrope walking, juggling and early illusion. In Europe it developed into yet a third distinct type of performance associated with the medieval jongleurs, that of the street performance.\n\nSword swallowing was performed during the Middle Ages as part of street theatre and was popular at festivals and other large gatherings. It began to die out in the mid-19th century, and was outlawed in Scandinavia in 1893.\n\nAccording to an early 19th-century English magazine article the abilities of sword-swallowers in India were considered incredible when first reported in England. In 1813 'swallowing the sword' was advertised as among the new and astonishing feats performed by the Indian Jugglers then appearing in London. The troupe was led by the famous juggler and sword swallower Ramo Samee, who continued to perform until his death in London in August 1850, having at times also toured Europe and America. From 1850 to the 1890s a small number of sword swallowers performed in the UK, such as Martha Mitchell (c 1855) and Benedetti (1863–95), and in the US, including Lawson Peck (c 1850s), Ling Look (c 1872), Wandana (died May 9, 1875), and Harry Parsons (died December 1880). The best-known North American sword swallower of this time was Fred McLone, better known to the public as \"Chevalier Cliquot\", who performed from 1878 to the early 20th century.\n\nIn 1893 sword swallowing was featured at the World Columbian Exposition at the Chicago World's Fair.\n\nIn the early 1900s traveling circuses and sideshows featured sword swallowers. In Europe performers tried to swallow large numbers of swords; in America there was a focus on the novel and bizarre. Some tried to swallow longer swords, many swords, hot swords, bayonets or glowing neon tubes. Sword swallowers appeared on the same bill as magicians such as Houdini. Western Europe and England also saw an increase in sword swallowing interest during this period, with many cross-Atlantic influences. During the late 19th century and early 20th century, traveling magic shows from the Orient toured Europe and America; some included sword swallowing. The middle of the 20th century saw a demise in circuses in general and sideshows in particular.\n\nThe performer must first lean the head back, hyper-extending the neck, and relax the upper esophageal sphincter (a generally involuntary muscle that contracts the top of the esophagus). Retching must be controlled while the sword, lubricated by saliva, is inserted through the mouth and past the pharynx.\n\nOnce past the pharynx and sphincter the sword passes swiftly, assisted by gravity, straightening the flexible esophagus. The stomach, at an angle to the esophagus, is brought into line as the sword enters through the cardiac opening. Some swallowers consume a large meal or drink water before performing to give the stomach a more vertical orientation, allowing for easier passage of the sword. Careful focus is required to complete the process without injury, as the sword passes within millimetres of vital body parts such as the aorta, heart and lungs.\n\nMost serious sword swallowing injuries and fatalities occur after minor injuries or while attempting a feat beyond that of a \"normal\" sword swallow. The most common injury is a sore throat when first learning, after frequent consecutive performances, or after swallowing curved swords or several swords at once. Swallowing multiple swords simultaneously over time can also lead to distension of the esophagus. A minor injury may predispose the performer to sustaining a more major one, including perforation of the esophagus, stomach, heart, lungs, and other organs in proximity to the path of the sword, or intestinal bleeding. Twenty-nine deaths have been reported as a result of sword swallowing injuries since 1880.\n\n\nThe abilities of sword-swallowers have proven useful to the progress of medical knowledge, specifically in the development and advancement of upper endoscopy.\n\nIn 1868 Adolf Kussmaul of Freiburg, Germany, performed an esophagoscopy on a sword-swallower using a rigid 47 cm tube, mirrors, and a gasoline lamp. The apparatus, an early endoscope, allowed him to examine the esophagus and the fundus of the stomach.\n\nIn 1897 a Scottish physician named Stevens performed digestive experiments with a sword swallower assistant; small metal tubes, pierced with holes and filled with meat, were swallowed and after a time regurgitated, allowing Stevens to examine the extent of the digestion that had taken place.\n\nIn 1906 a doctor named Cremer performed an electrocardiogram by passing an electrode down the esophagus of a sword swallower. This approach has since been proven useful by numerous studies; esophageal recording at a location in proximity to the heart improves signal detection.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2006, a research study on the effects of sword swallowing was conducted by Brian Witcombe, consultant radiologist at the Gloucestershire Royal Hospital in Gloucester, England, and Dan Meyer. The results were published in the \"British Medical Journal\".\n\nIn January 2006, Dan Meyer worked with physicians and researchers in swallowing disorders at Vanderbilt Stallworth Rehabilitation Center at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tennessee to explore whether the techniques involved in sword swallowing could be used to help patients who suffer from swallowing disorders such as dysphagia or achalasia.\n\nIn 2007, Dai Andrews worked with Dr. Sharon Caplan at Johns Hopkins University on a study to determine whether sword swallowing could be used to help patients who suffer from achalasia, or those who had suffered severe throat trauma.\n\nModern sword swallowers include Johnny Fox, Dai Andrews, Brad Byers, the Space Cowboy, Andy Kaufman, Matt the Knife, Lucky Diamond Rich, Ryan Stock, Josh Routh, Aerial Manx, Alex Magala, David Blaine, Johnny Strange.\n\nIn 2009, the Guinness World Record for longest sword swallowed was achieved by Natasha Veruschka with a 58 cm (22.83 in) long sword.\n\nThe Guinness World Record for 'Most swords swallowed underwater' is 4 and was achieved by Chayne Hultgren (a.k.a. The Space Cowboy, Australia) on the set of 'Lo Show dei Record' in Milan, Italy, on 11 July 2014. He was also the first person to swallow a sword underwater on May 9, 2006 at Manly Ocean World Aquarium in Sydney Australia. He performed this under water feat in a tank of live sharks.\n\nChayne Hultgren (a.k.a. The Space Cowboy) also holds the most official 'Guinness World Record' for sword swallowing including 'Most swords swallowed at once' (24 swords), 'Most swords swallowed while juggling' (18 swords), 'Most swords swallowed while riding a unicycle' (3 swords swallowed on a 3m tall unicycle) and 'Longest lightning bolt to strike swallowed sword'. The measured distance the stream of electrical discharge traveled from Australia's largest Tesla Coil, owned and operated by Peter Terren (AKA: Dr Electric), to the handle of Chayne's swallowed sword was 3 feet 10 inches. The sword blade measured 62 cm and was swallowed all the way to the hilt on the 20th of April 2013. Perth, WA, Australia.\nAs of July 2016 The Space Cowboy currently holds 44 official Guinness World Records. He is Australia's most prolific record breaker.\n\nIn 2009, the Guinness World Record for \"Largest Curve in a Sword Swallowed\" was achieved by Dai Andrews with a 120 degree curved sword.\n\nBrad Byers holds the Guinness World Record for \"The Most Swords Swallowed and Twisted at One Time\" by swallowing ten 27 inch swords one at a time and then twisting all ten swords 180 degrees in his throat.\n\nThomas Blackthorne made the sword known as \"The Sword of Swords\". It holds the Guinness World Record for the most swallowed sword and has been swallowed by 40 of the world's most known sword swallowers.\n"}
{"id": "21478772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21478772", "title": "The Holy Family of Francis I (Raphael)", "text": "The Holy Family of Francis I (Raphael)\n\nThe Holy Family is a 1518 painting of the Holy Family (Jesus, Mary and Joseph), Saint Elisabeth, an infant John the Baptist and two angels. It is signed by Raphael, but most of the work was delegated to his workshop assistants. It was commissioned by Pope Leo X as a gift to Claude, wife of Francis I of France, hence its name. It is now in the Louvre.\n\n"}
{"id": "5527808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5527808", "title": "The Joy Luck Club (film)", "text": "The Joy Luck Club (film)\n\nThe Joy Luck Club () is a 1993 American drama film about the relationships between Chinese-American women and their Chinese immigrant mothers. It was directed by Wayne Wang and stars Ming-Na Wen, Rosalind Chao, Lauren Tom, Tamlyn Tomita, France Nguyen, Kieu Chinh, Lisa Lu and Tsai Chin. The film is based on the eponymous 1989 novel by Amy Tan, who co-wrote the screenplay with Ronald Bass. The film was produced by Bass, Tan, Wang and Patrick Markey while Oliver Stone served as an executive producer. Four older women, all Chinese immigrants living in San Francisco, meet regularly to play mahjong, eat, and tell stories. Each of these women has an adult Chinese-American daughter. The film reveals the hidden pasts of the older women and their daughters and how their lives are shaped by the clash of Chinese and American cultures as they strive to understand their family bonds and one another.\n\nDevelopment of the project began when Wang approached Tan in 1989 at the time of the novel's release. Concerned about the novel's complex storytelling and character development, they teamed up with Bass in January 1990, who added a farewell party not in the original novel and voice-overs to compress the film's storytelling without changing the main plot. Carolco Pictures initially supported the project until 1990, when the filmmakers turned down the contract for not receiving the creative control that they demanded. After the first draft was written between August and November 1991, the filmmakers shifted to Hollywood Pictures in spring 1992. Principal photography took place in San Francisco, the novel and the film's main setting, in October 1992 and then in China in February 1993; filming ended in March 1993.\n\nThe film was privately screened in sneak previews in spring 1993 and film festivals in August and September 1993. It premiered in Los Angeles, New York City, and San Francisco on September 8, 1993. With the film's $10.5 million budget, it was moderately successful in the box office, earning $33 M in the United States. It received positive critical reaction but also criticism for its negative portrayal of Asian American male characters.\n\nThe Joy Luck Club was formed by four women in San Francisco: Lindo Jong (Tsai Chin), Ying-Ying St. Clair (France Nuyen), An-Mei Hsu (Lisa Lu), and Suyuan Woo (Kieu Chinh). The members have mainly played mahjong and told each other's stories over the years. They emigrated from their native country, China, remarried, and gave birth to children in America. Suyuan's daughter June (Ming-Na Wen) replaced her when Suyuan died four months before the time the film is set. The mothers have high hopes for their daughters' success, but the daughters struggle through \"anxieties, feelings of inadequacy, and failures.\" Throughout the film, the mothers and daughters bond by learning to understand each other and by overcoming their conflicts.\n\nThe film begins with June's prologue tale. In the prologue, a woman (presumably Suyuan) bought a swan in China from a market vendor who was selling it as \"a duck that stretched its neck [to become] a goose.\" She kept it as her pet and brought it to the United States. When the immigration officials took it away from her, she plucked out only a swan feather instead while she struggled to grab the swan away. For a long time, the woman had kept the feather, planning to someday give the feather to her daughter.\n\nThen the film transits to June's farewell surprise party in San Francisco for her upcoming reunion with her long-lost twin sisters in China. Among the guests are members of The Joy Luck Club, their daughters, other relatives, and friends. The following characters below narrate their journeys to the audience while they reflect upon their pasts.\n\nIn China, four-year-old Lindo (Ying Wu) is arranged, by her mother (Xi Meijuan) and the matchmaker (Hsu Ying Li), to be married to Mrs Huang's son when she grows up. When Lindo turns fifteen (Irene Ng), her mother sends her to Mrs Huang, so Lindo marries Huang's son, Tyan Hu (William Gong), a pre-pubescent boy who has no interest in her. During four years of childless and loveless marriage, she is frequently abused by her frustrated mother-in-law, who believes Lindo's childlessness is her own fault. Lindo eavesdrops on the servant girl telling her lover that she is pregnant and he willfully abandons her. Lindo realizes her chance to leave the marriage without dishonouring herself, her family and her in-laws. Later, Lindo purportedly ruins her clothes and then claims that she had a nightmare in which Tyan Hu's ancestors threatened to punish her, Tyan Hu and the matchmaker. Then Lindo claims that the ancestors impregnated the servant girl with Tyan Hu's child and her own marriage to him is considered offensive to them. Mrs Huang does not believe Lindo until Mrs Huang quickly discovers the servant's pregnancy through inspection. Finally, Lindo claims that the matchmaker intentionally and wrongly paired Lindo and Tyan Hu for more money. Furious, Mrs Huang orders the matchmaker out of her family's life, allowing the servant girl to have her marriage. Lindo is able to escape the house and moves to Shanghai.\n\nYears later in America, Lindo has a new husband, a son, and a daughter named Waverly (Tamlyn Tomita). Aged between six and nine, Waverly (Mai Vu) has become a chess champion. Annoyed by Lindo using Waverly to \"show off\" at the streets, Waverly shouts at her mother and decides to quit chess. When she tries to play it again, Waverly loses one chess round, prompting her to retire from chess. Years later, she has a daughter Shoshana from her Chinese ex-husband and is going to marry a Caucasian fiancé, Rich (Christopher Rich), much to Lindo's chagrin. In order to make Lindo like Rich, Waverly brings him to a family dinner, but he fails to impress them especially by improperly using chopsticks and insulting Lindo's cooking by marinating the dish with a sauce, humiliating Waverly. While driving home, Waverly lets Rich know how humiliated she and her family are with him, prompting him to properly learn the Chinese table manners. A while later, at the hair salon, Lindo retells her moments with her own mother and declares that she likes Rich very much. She then gives marital blessings to Waverly and Rich, prompting her and Waverly to reconcile with each other. At June's farewell party, Rich almost successfully uses a chopstick (but accidentally drops a piece), impressing Lindo by trying to respect the Chinese table manners.\n\nIn China, Ying-Ying St. Clair was happily married to Lin-Xiao (Russell Wong) with a baby boy in China until Lin-Xiao abuses her and abandons her for an opera singer. Overwhelmed by her depression, Ying-Ying drowns their baby son in the bathtub as an act of vengeance against her husband, which immediately horrifies and haunts her ever afterwards. Years later, she has emigrated to America and suffers from trauma of her past, worrying her new family, including her daughter Lena (Lauren Tom).\n\nAfter Ying-Ying finally resolved her years of trauma, Lena shows Ying-Ying around her new apartment with her husband Harold (Michael Paul Chan), who is also Lena's boss. Ying-Ying learns that Lena is uncomfortable with her financial arrangements with Harold. They split the costs of their life evenly with a list of things that they share, making their home life contentious. Seeing that Lena is unhappy with her marriage, Ying-Ying reasserts herself by knocking over a table in the bedroom and causing the vase to fall from the table and break. Hearing the sudden noise, Lena goes to her mother and admits her unhappiness. Ying-Ying replies that Lena should leave and not come back until Harold gives her what she wants. At June's farewell party, Lena is shown to have a new vibrant fiancé, who has given Lena what she wants and is accepting of Ying-Ying.\n\nNine-year-old An-Mei Hsu (Yi Ding) has been raised with her relatives and grandmother. She is reunited with her long-lost mother (Vivian Wu), who was disowned by her family for her \"dalliance\" with a wealthy middle-aged man Wu-Tsing shortly after her husband's death, and who arrives to see her dying mother (Lucille Soong). In order to not lose her again, An-Mei moves out with her mother to Wu-Tsing's house against her relatives' wishes for her to remain with them. They claim that in allowing An-Mei live with her and Wu-Tsing, the mother will ruin her future. She finds that Wu-Tsing has another three wives, making An-Mei's mother the Fourth Wife. Later, she learns that the Second Wife (Elizabeth Sung) tricked An-Mei's mother into being raped and impregnated by Wu-Tsing. When the relatives did not believe An-Mei's mother and kicked her out, she reluctantly became Wu-Tsing's Fourth Wife as she had nowhere else to turn. After An-Mei's mother gave birth to a boy, the Second Wife took him away from her and claimed him as her own. After An-Mei discovers the past, her mother ultimately commits suicide by eating \"sticky rice balls\" laced with opium, choosing the day of her death carefully to threaten Wu-Tsing with the vengeance of her angry ghost. Afraid of this curse, Wu-Tsing vows to raise An-Mei and her half-brother with great care and promises to honor their mother as an honorable first wife. When Second Wife tries to pay respects to An-Mei's late mother, An-Mei screams at the Second Wife, destroys the Second Wife's faux pearl necklace (the Second Wife initially tried to win An-Mei over with a similar necklace), and loudly yells out \"Mama!\"\n\nYears later in America, An-Mei's daughter Rose (Rosalind Chao) has been dating her boyfriend, Ted Jordan (Andrew McCarthy) since college. Ted is initially attracted to Rose's assertive, forthright nature. When he confronts his aristocratic mother (Diane Baker) for insulting Rose due to her race, Rose is impressed and agrees to marry him. Over the course of their marriage, however, Rose and Ted become distant from each other, mainly because Rose, desperate to prove herself to Ted's milieu, becomes submissive and demure at the cost of her own identity and interests. They have a daughter, Jennifer, but this does not resolve their marital problems. To make matters worse, Ted cheats on her with another woman and neither are actually happy in their marriage. A while later, An-Mei comes for a visit and relays the story of her own mother's fate to Rose. She encourages Rose to stand up for herself and Jennifer against Ted, or nothing will change. To avoid the same fate, Rose reclaims her strength and stands up to Ted by telling him to leave the house and not take their daughter away from her. This compels Ted to take her seriously and not continue taking her for granted. At June's farewell party, it is revealed the couple reconciled.\n\nIn World War II, when the Japanese invaded China, Suyuan Woo escaped the invasion with her twin baby daughters. When Suyuan became ill during her quest for refuge, her cart breaks down, causing the babies to fall. Near death, Suyuan was unable to carry the babies herself and abandoned them along with all of her other possessions, including a photo of herself. Suyuan survived, but was haunted by guilt in the loss of her daughters and never knew what happened to them.\n\nAfter she remarried in America, Suyuan has high hopes for her new daughter June, but June constantly fails to meet her expectations out of a lack of interest. She performs badly during a piano recital at age nine (Melanie Chang), and when Suyuan pushes her to continue training to be a concert pianist, June refuses, saying that she wishes herself dead like Suyuan's other daughters, an action that offends Suyuan. When June grows into adulthood, at a dinner party a year before Suyuan's passing, Waverly, June's long-time rival whom she is freelancing for, turns down her business ideas, and Suyuan remarks that Waverly and June are not alike, and that \"style\" is something one's born with and cannot be taught implying Waverly has \"style\". June feels humiliated, believing her mother had betrayed her for being a failure in her eyes, and Lindo shows sympathy for June. The following day, June berates Suyuan for her remarks and admits she could never live up to her high expectations. June laments that Suyuan has always been disappointed in June because June dropped out of college, is not married, and has an unsuccessful career. However, Suyuan gives her a jade necklace and assures June that she is the one who has the unteachable \"style\" and that while Waverly was the best in competitions, June always had the best heart, which made her mother prouder than she would have been otherwise.\n\nLast Easter before the farewell party, June received the news from the Club that the long-lost twins were alive. When June could not understand the twins' letter written in Chinese, Lindo purportedly mistranslated the letter to make June believe that the twins knew about Suyuan's death and their long-lost half-sister June. Back to the present, when the farewell party ends, Lindo confesses that she wrote letters to the twins and then signed Suyuan's name. June begs Lindo to tell them the truth, but Lindo tells her that it is too late because the twin sisters are anticipating their mother, Suyuan, still believing that Suyuan is alive. A short while later, June's father (Chao-Li Chi) retells the war story of Suyuan and her long-lost twin daughters. Then he gives her the swan feather, which came from Suyuan's—the woman's—swan as explained earlier in the prologue, saying that the feather looks worthless but has \"good intentions.\" When she arrives in China to meet her sisters, June tells them the truth about Suyuan and embraces them. In finally accepting her Chinese heritage, June is able to make peace with her deceased mother.\n\n\n\n\nAmy Tan and Academy Award winner Ronald Bass wrote the film adaptation. Wayne Wang, who made prior films about Chinese Americans, such as his first film \"Chan Is Missing\", was the director. Wang, Tan, Bass, and Patrick Markey were the producers. Oliver Stone and Janet Yang were the executive producers. The production designer was Don Burt. Maysie Hoy was the film editor.\n\nWhen the novel \"The Joy Luck Club\" was released in 1989, Wayne Wang approached Amy Tan, the novel's author, with the idea of adapting the novel that he admired into a film. Wang and Tan grew concerned about transforming it into a film, and Wang was almost reluctant to make another film about Chinese Americans since \"Eat a Bowl of Tea\" because Wang's prior films had not attracted wide audiences. There were no known Hollywood movies with an all-Asian cast at the time, and making a film with Chinese protagonists was risky especially because Asian actors were not well known to American audiences. Ronald Bass, with whom Wang and Tan teamed up since their meeting at the Hotel Bel-Air in January 1990, analyzed the novel and outlined how to bring it to the screen, with \"no single lead character.\" Because many studios found the novel's \"characters and plot [...] too internal and complex\" to adapt into a film, Bass added two additional changes without changing the main plot: June Woo's farewell party as the film's timeline setting and the first-person narration in addition to voiceovers to compress the film's storytelling.\n\nWayne Wang, Amy Tan, and Ronald Bass teamed up with the Ixtlan Corporation, including its staff members, Oliver Stone and Janet Yang, who was the company's vice president and had a profound interest in the project. Before the project, Stone and Wang disagreed with each other about their own portrayals of Chinese people. Wang gave Stone's thriller \"Year of the Dragon\" a negative review for portraying Chinese characters as \"[mobsters], gangsters, and prostitutes.\" Stone responded by calling Wang's \"\" \"boring\" for its lack of action. Stone and Wang reconciled their differences enabling them to work together and finally agreed to produce the film together along with other producers.\n\nCarolco Pictures initially agreed to support the project in spring 1990, but the company had fiscal problems, and the filmmakers turned down the contract six months later in fall 1990 due to not receiving the level of creative control that they demanded. Therefore, Tan, Wang, and Bass outlined the screenplay themselves \"in a narrative format\" over three days in January 1991. Tan and Bass completed the first draft between August and November 1991. When they returned to Ixtlan on March 1992, Jeffrey Katzenberg, chairman of Walt Disney Studios, approved the project as proposed by Stone and Yang, and gave them full creative control. In spring 1992, the Hollywood Pictures agreed to assist production and distribute the film.\n\nDespite that she lacked filmmaking experience, \"[Amy] Tan found the process not nearly as bad as she had feared. She was happy that collaborating meant discussions and that they were followed by time to write on her own.\" Janet Yang said that although several studios were interested, Disney \"was the only one to step up to the line\". The producers were surprised, but Yang felt in retrospect that \"Joy Luck\" \"fits in with Disney's agenda—taking a chance on low-budget projects not dependent on star power\". She described Disney as being \"less hands-on than usual\" through not being familiar with the subject matter.\n\nFilming began in San Francisco in October 1992 and then in China in February 1993. Amy Tan did not participate in the casting, even though Tan's mother, aunts, and four-year-old niece were extras in the movie, as well as Janet Yang's parents and Tan herself briefly. The filming was completed in March 1993. The film's budget totaled to $10.5–10.6 million.\n\nHsu Ying Li (1910–1993), who portrayed the matchmaker in the film, and worked as a culture consultant on set, was killed in a car accident in Oakland, California on April 28, 1993. Therefore, the film is dedicated in her memory in the end credits.\n\nReviews of \"The Joy Luck Club\" were generally positive. CinemaScore reported that audiences gave the film an \"A+\" grade. Critic Gene Siskel, singled out the script and performances, praising the film for presenting images of Asian-Americans outside the narrow range of childhood violinists and spelling bee winners, opining that its main accomplishments were its depiction of how the brutality of the lives of women in China could continue to influence the lives of their American daughters, and its ability to allow audiences to relate to a large group of Chinese-Americans as individuals. Siskel picked it as the seventh of the top ten movies of 1993, while Roger Ebert picked it as the fifth of his own top ten movies of 1993.\n\nIt was voted one of the favorite films of 1993 among 1,297 readers of \"The Arizona Daily Star\", ranked number 14 out of 253. However, when the film premiered in the United Kingdom, \"some British critics found it more schmaltzy than sour-sweet.\" It was one of 400 nominated movies as of 1998 to be listed as part AFI's 100 Years...100 Movies, but it failed to be listed in both the 1998 list and the 2007 list.\n\nTy Burr from \"Entertainment Weekly\" graded it a C+ and wrote that the film \"covers primal issues of abandonment, infanticide, motherly love, and self-respect, pounds you with pathos [and] is extremely faithful to the novel\". Burr found the story \"exhausting\" and preachy, he criticized the \"cringingly bald, full of self-help blather\" dialogue, and deemed male characters as \"perfidies\". However, he found the acting \"generous [and] intelligent\", and picked the segment of Rosalind Chao and Lisa Lu as \"the only one that feels genuinely cinematic [yet] too late to save the movie\".\n\nDavid Denby from \"The New Yorker\" called the film \"a superb achievement\" and praised the director's \"impressive visual skills\". However, Denby criticized the film writing, \"[I]ts tone is relentlessly earnest, its meanings limited or wanly inspirational, and my emotions, rather than well[ed] up, remained small.\" Moreover, he deemed men in the film as \"caricatures\" and the mothers' attempts to \"teach [their daughters] the lesson of self-worth\" as inadequate and pretentious.\n\nFilm critic Emanuel Levy graded the film a B+, calling it an \"emotionally heart-rending study of generational gap–but also continuity–between Chinese mothers and their Chinese-American daughters\" and a visually well-done propaganda for \"cultural diversity\". However, he also found it too long with \"too many stories and [..] flashbacks\" and too mainstream and broad to be an art film, especially when it was screened in \"prestigious film festivals.\" Matt Hinrichs from \"DVD Talk\" rated the film four and a half stars out of five, commenting, \"Despite the cultural and gender-specific nature of the story, [..] there are a lot of overriding themes explored here (such as the daughters fearing that they're repeating their moms' mistakes) that have a universal scope and appeal.\"\n\nHarvard Crimson writer, Allen Soong, reflected that \"while the women in this film are fully fleshed-out characters who are a remarkable improvement over the \"exotic Oriental\" Cassandra from \"Wayne's World\", the male characters are merely additions to the long list of negative images of Asian men in our culture.\" He added that \"the Asian men in \"The Joy Luck Club\", ... are either domineering and misogynist in the worst imaginable way, or they're just clueless and aloof.\"\n\nIn April 1993, Amy Tan watched the rough cut of \"The Joy Luck Club\" and praised it as an emotional tear-jerker. It was thereafter screened to a bigger audience in mid-May, to an even broader audience a few weeks later, to the Asian American Journalists Association on the week of August 16, at the Telluride Film Festival on the Labor Day weekend, and at the Toronto International Film Festival in mid-September. The film opened to theatres at limited release in Los Angeles, New York City, and San Francisco on September 8, 1993. It slowly expanded to several hundred theatres by October 1 nationwide, including Salt Lake City, Utah, and St. Petersburg, Florida. It opened in some other cities on October 8, like Austin, Texas. The film earned nearly $33 million in the United States.\n\nThe soundtrack was released by Hollywood Records on September 28, 1993. It was composed and produced by Rachel Portman, co-orchestrated by Portman and John Neufeld, conducted by J. A. C. Redford. Chinese instruments were used as well as Western music. \"Filmtracks\" website and Jason Ankeny from \"Allmusic\" gave the soundtrack four stars out of five. \"Filmtracks\" found the music cues not as \"outstanding\" as Portman's \"other singular achievements in her career\" but the website noted that the whole album \"never becomes too repetitive to enjoy[,]\" even when the music cues lack diversity from each other. The first 14 tracks were composed by Rachel Portman. The 15th and final track, \"End Titles\", was composed by David Arnold, Marvin Hamlisch, and Rachel Portman. The album duration is around 44 minutes.\n\nAt the time the film was released, it was anticipated that Hollywood would begin to develop more films around the Asian experience, but this did not eventually happen. \"Flower Drum Song\", released in 1961, was the first film to feature a majority Asian cast telling a contemporary Asian-American story. \"The Joy Luck Club\" (1993) was the second, a third of a century later, and the latest was released a quarter century later in 2018, \"Crazy Rich Asians\".\n\nIn the 1990s, after the success of the film, Disney Studios contacted Amy Tan to discuss making her second novel, \"The Kitchen God's Wife\", into a film, a spiritual successor/sequel to the first; however, negotiations fell through. In the waning of the glow of Joy Luck Club, further Asian American stories were mostly shot down by studios after the brief rush following the film.\n\nIn 2018, Ronald Bass, the producer of the film, revealed that a sequel is in the works, waiting to be picked up by a studio or a network. Both a TV series pilot script and a sequel feature film script has been made. The intention is to reunite the original cast for the sequel, making the film's mothers into grandmothers and daughters into mothers, with Millennial children, in a three-generation story, following the developments of the families since the original film. The setting would be 25-years after the setting of the film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8273471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8273471", "title": "The Quarterly", "text": "The Quarterly\n\nThe Quarterly was an avant-garde literary magazine founded and edited by Gordon Lish in 1987. \"The Quarterly\" showcased the work of contemporary authors.\n\nVolume 1 of \"The Quarterly\" was published in Spring 1987. \"The Magazine of New American Writing\" featured works by: Amy Hempel, Tom Spanbauer, Matthew Levine, Jane Smiley, Jack Gilbert, Harold Brodkey, Patty Marx and others.\n\nVolume 2 of \"The Quarterly\" was published in Summer 1987. \"The Magazine of New American Writing\" featured works by: Noy Holland, Mark Richard, Nancy Lemann, Ann Pyne, Jack Gilbert, Paulette Jiles, Rick Bass and others.\n\nVolume 3 of \"The Quarterly\" was published in Fall 1987. \"The Magazine of New American Writing\" featured works by: Mark Richard, Hellen Schulman, Ted Pejovich, Sunny Rogers, Ann Pyne, Diane Williams, Rick Bass and others.\n\nVolume 4 of \"The Quarterly\" was published in Winter 1987. \"The Magazine of New American Writing\" featured works by: Sharon Dupree, Mark Richard, Michael Hickins, Yannick Murphy, Patrick McGrath, Jan Pendleton, Rebecca Bondor, George Angel, Stephen O'Connor and others.\n\nVolume 5 of \"The Quarterly\" was published in Spring 1988. \"The Magazine of New American Writing\" featured works by: Jennifer Allen, William Tester, Janet Mitchell, Sharon Dupree, Robert Fox, Sheila Kohler and others.\n\nVolume 6 of \"The Quarterly\" was published in Summer 1988. \"The Magazine of New American Writing\" featured works by: Ann Pyne, Jan Pendleton, Victor Barall, Jennifer Allen, Harold Brodkey, M. D. Stein and others.\n\n\"The Quarterly\" ended with the final publication of volume 31 in the Fall of 1995.\n"}
{"id": "20183511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20183511", "title": "Tom De Haven", "text": "Tom De Haven\n\nTom De Haven (born 1949) is an American author, editor, journalist, and writing teacher. His recurring subjects include literary and film noir, the Hollywood studio system and the American comics industry. De Haven is noted for his comics-themed novels, including the \"Derby Dugan\" trilogy and \"It's Superman\".\n\nDe Haven was born in Bayonne, New Jersey. He attended Catholic School, where he was a classmate of fellow author George R. R. Martin, though he notes that they weren't friends, even though Martin was an editor of the school newspaper where he was a cartoonist.\n\nDe Haven originally wanted to be cartoonist before attending college, but by the time he graduated from the university, he realized that he would never be a professional cartoonist, and considers the realization \"the First Great Disappointment Of My Life\". He received a Sociology degree from Rutgers University in 1971 and an MFA from Bowling Green State University in 1973.\n\nAn avid reader of comic books and graphic novels, De Haven considers himself a narrative writer, and considers the storytelling style of comics to have been a major influence on his writing since he was a child of almost six or seven.\n\nHe began teaching creative writing part-time at Hofstra University in 1981, before moving in 1987 to Rutgers to teach American Studies (including one of the first college courses on American comics) before relocating to Richmond, Virginia to become a full-time teacher.\n\nDe Haven is currently a full professor of Creative Writing at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, Virginia in the MFA program, and often teaches at least one American Studies course, including \"The Graphic Novel\", De Haven is also the co-creator with author Laura Browder of the VCU's First Novelist Award, honoring the best debut novel published during a calendar year. He is also a licensed private investigator. He considers himself a Democrat, and has been criticized for anti-Republican statements he has made over the years.\n\nThe author noted in an interview that he agreed with Robert Crumb's observation that the Thirties was the pinnacle of American culture. He also notes in the same interview that he finds truth to Art Spiegelman's statement \"that we are, for whatever reason, most nostalgic for the decade before the one we were born in\", as he was born in the Forties.\n\nAs a freelance journalist, he has written criticism for publications such as the \"New York Times Book Review\" and \"Entertainment Weekly\". De Haven’s novels include the \"Funny Paper\" trilogy (consisting of \"Funny Papers\" (1985), \"Derby Dugan’s Depression Funnies\" (1996) and \"Dugan Under Ground\" (2001)). The trilogy's storyline stretches from the beginnings of the newspaper comic strips in the 1890s to the 1970s.\n\nThe \"New York Times Book Review\" called the \"Derby\" books \"a mighty accomplishment: John Dos Passos’s U.S.A. trilogy for comic geeks.\" The Boston Globe hails the trilogy as a \"wild ride\" \n\nIn 2005, his novel \"It’s Superman\" reinvented the early years of the well-known superhero of the same name amidst the Great Depression. The author noted his initial apprehension when he was contacted by DC Comics in 1997 in regards to writing a novel about Superman: \"[S]hould I do a novel with a character that I don’t own? So I had to think about it, but I didn’t think about it very long, really. I just thought...this is too good to let go...they were giving me carte blanche.\" He states that his prior novels about comic strips are what prompted DC to contact him about writing the period piece. For the novel, he took as his inspiration the early Superman stories of the thirties through the fifties; wherein the hero is not fighting super-villains and Lex Luthor, but clearing slums in the New Deal era and expose corrupt politicians. De Haven says he was aiming for his hero to develop a social conscience during the Great Depression. He states in the interview that only real departure from the Superman that Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster originally created is that while their original hero lived in Cleveland, De Haven places his hero in the real \"Metropolis\" of New York.\n\nDe Haven's awards include a fellowship from the New Jersey State Council on the Arts, and he has twice won fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts. His novel, \"Depression Funnies\", received an American Book Award in 1997. \"Dugan Under Ground\" received the Library of Virginia Fiction Award (also called the Library of Virginia Literary Awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54003645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54003645", "title": "Violet (fairy tale)", "text": "Violet (fairy tale)\n\nViolet is an Italian fairy tale by Giambattista Basile. It appears in the \"Pentamerone\" (\"The Tales of tales\"), first published in the 1630s.\n"}
{"id": "41208476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41208476", "title": "Wheel chandelier", "text": "Wheel chandelier\n\nA wheel chandelier is a lighting installment, in the form of a chandelier hanging from the ceiling in the form of a spoked wheel. The oldest and most important examples derive from the Romanesque period.\n\nWheel chandeliers were made for the practical purpose of lighting the great churches and other public areas, but in religion they also had symbolic significance, depicting the Garden of Eden or the Kingdom of God. The wheel, its gates, and its towers, which are usually decorated with Prophets and Apostles or inscribed with their names, symbolise the city walls of the New Jerusalem. The buttresses, towers, and candles number twelve or a multiple of twelve, after the numerology of the Book of Revelation. This symbolism is first found on two wheel chandeliers of the Hildesheim Cathedral. The great wheel chandelier of the Church of the Holy Sepulcher was an inspiration.\n\nIn Germany there are four great Romanesque wheel chandeliers. The fact that they are made from fire-gilt copper and not from pure gold has saved them from being melted down. They were decorated with Prophets and angels in silver and with precious gemstones, but for the most part these have been lost.\n\n\nIn the Minster Church of St. Alexander in Einbeck, there is a later gothic wheel chandelier of painted brass with a diameter of c. 3.5 metres. The inscription on its bracket dates it to 1420. It was presumably gifted by Degenhard Ree, a Canon of the collegiate church. The composition ought to go back to a lost moder in Pöhlde Cloister.\n\nAnother Gothic example is found in:\n\nIn some neo-Romanesque churches there are large wheel chandeliers too. Some of these were electric even when they were first installed\nSome examples:\n\nThere are also contemporary wheel chandeliers, which continue this tradition:\n\nAnother type is wagon wheel chandelier. As name suggest it is usually made from old wagon wheels. As opposite to most of the wheel chandeliers, wagon wheel chandeliers were usually created as a cheap way to lighten the common spaces of large houses, businesses and public halls. Most of them were made from wood reinforced with steel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1929987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1929987", "title": "Whittling", "text": "Whittling\n\nWhittling may refer either to the art of carving shapes out of raw wood using a knife or a time-occupying, non-artistic (contrast wood carving for artistic process) process of repeatedly shaving slivers from a piece of wood.\n\nCasual whittling is typically performed with a light, small-bladed knife, usually a pocket knife. Specialized whittling knives, with fixed single blades, are preferred for sculpting artistic work. They have thick handles which are easier to grip for long periods and have better leverage, allowing more precise control and pressure.\n\nOccasionally the terms \"whittling\" and \"carving\" are used interchangeably, but they are different arts. Carving employs the use of chisels, gouges, with or without a mallet, while whittling involves only the use of a knife. Carving frequently involves powered equipment such as lathes.\n\nIn industrialized areas of the world, whittling is mainly a hobby and not an occupational activity as it was before powered wood working equipment enabled modern production.\n\n\"Splash whittling\" is a historical, decorative technique in Norway using an ax to create a herringbone pattern.\n\nIt's a good idea to protect your thumb with a leather thimble, and your holding hand with a cut-resistant glove.\n\nWhile any type of wood can be used for whittling, there are woods which are easier to work with and whittle better than others. Soft woods with a small grain, such as basswood, are easier to whittle and are relatively inexpensive. Hardwoods are more difficult to whittle.\n\n"}
