{"id": "58547382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58547382", "title": "(172034) 2001 WR1", "text": "(172034) 2001 WR1\n\n, provisional designation \"\", is a sub-kilometer near-Earth object of the Amor group, approximately in diameter. The S-type asteroid has been identified as a potential flyby target of the \"Hayabusa2\" mission. It was discovered on 17 November 2001, by astronomers with the Lincoln Near-Earth Asteroid Research at the Lincoln Laboratory's Experimental Test Site near Socorro, New Mexico, in the United States. The asteroid has a rotation period of 8.0 hours and possibly an elongated shape. It remains unnamed since its numbering in December 2007.\n\n\"\" is an Amor asteroid – a subgroup of near-Earth asteroids that approach the orbit of Earth from beyond, but do not cross it. The object orbits the Sun at a distance of 1.02–1.54 AU once every 17 months (527 days; semi-major axis of 1.28 AU). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.20 and an inclination of 25° with respect to the ecliptic. The body's observation arc begins with its first observation in February 1953, more than 48 years prior to its official discovery observation at Socorro. The precovery was taken at Palomar Observatory and published by the Digitized Sky Survey.\n\n\"\" has an Earth minimum orbital intersection distance of which corresponds to 29.1 lunar distances. In September 1926, it approached Earth to , its closest approach of all close encounters since 1900. Only in September 2199, it will approach Earth at a similar distance of .\n\n\"\" is currently the prime target of the \"Hayabusa2\" mission for a flyby planned to occur on 27 June 2023. When the spacecraft returns to Earth and delivers the sample capsule in December 2020, it is expected to retain 30 kg of xenon propellant, which can be used to extend its service and flyby new targets to explore.\n\nThis minor planet was numbered by the Minor Planet Center on 24 December 2007 (). As of 2018, it has not been named.\n\n\"\" has been characterized as a common, stony S-type asteroid.\n\nIn March 2018, a rotational lightcurve of \"\" was obtained from photometric observations by Brian Warner at the Palmer Divide Station in California. Lightcurve analysis gave a rotation period of hours with a brightness amplitude of 0.95 magnitude (), indicative of a non-spherical shape.\n\nAccording to the survey carried out by the NEOWISE mission of NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer, \"\" has an albedo of 0.34 and measures 0.63 and 0.66 kilometers in diameter, respectively. The \"Collaborative Asteroid Lightcurve Link\" assumes a standard albedo for a stony asteroid of 0.20 and calculates a diameter of 0.818 kilometers based on an absolute magnitude of 17.8.\n\n"}
{"id": "43305397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43305397", "title": "1963 Moscow protest", "text": "1963 Moscow protest\n\nOn 18 December 1963 a number of students from Ghana and other African countries organized a protest on Moscow's Red Square in response to the alleged murder of medical student Edmund Assare-Addo. The number of participants was reported at 500–700, but according to the Ghanaian physician Edward Na, who participated in the events, there were at most 150 protesters. The ambassador of Ghana in the Soviet Union John Banks Elliott requested a militsiya protection of the Ghanaian embassy.\n\nThis was the first recorded political protest on Red Square since the late 1920s.\n\nEdmund Assare-Addo was a 29-year-old student of the Kalinin Medical Institute. His body was found in a stretch of wasteland along a country road leading to the Moscow Ring Road. African students alleged that he was knifed by a Soviet man because Assare-Addo courted a Russian girl. The African students based their allegation on the unlikelihood of a student venturing into that remote place. The Soviet authorities stated that Assare-Addo froze to death in a snow while being drunk. According to the autopsy, performed by Soviet medics with two advanced medical students from Ghana as observers, the death was \"an effect of cold in a state of alcohol-induced stupor\". No signs of physical trauma were found, with the possible exception of a small scar on the neck.\n\nDiscussing the incident with Soviet officials, Elliot indicated the Western embassies in Moscow (\"the U.S., England, France, the FRG, or even Holland\") as the probable instigators of the incident. Elliot went so far as to suggest that students who \"behaved poorly\" and \"skipped class\" should be expelled from the Soviet Union. Before the students' march to the Red Square Elliott alleged that the students broke into the Ghanaian embassy and damaged furniture and pictures.\n\nThe protesters were African students studying in Soviet universities and institutes. Having assembled on the morning of 18 December 1963, they wrote a memorandum to present to Soviet authorities. The protesters carried placards with slogans \"Moscow – center of discrimination\", \"Stop killing Africans!\" and \"Moscow, a second Alabama\", while shouting in English, Russian, and French. The protesters marched to the Spasskiye Gates of the Kremlin, where they posed for photographs and gave interviews to the Western correspondents. The Soviet TASS news agency responded with a statement: \"It is to be regretted that the meetings of the Ghanaian students which began in connection with their claims to the embassy of their country resulted in the disturbance of public order in Moscow streets. It is quite natural that this is resented by the Russian people\".\n\nOn 20 December, the students returned to classes and militsiya ceased the protection of the Ghanaian embassy.\n"}
{"id": "46816684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46816684", "title": "1990 Arab Club Champions Cup", "text": "1990 Arab Club Champions Cup\n\nThe 1990 Arab Club Champions Cup is a tournament held between Arab clubs by UAFA. The preliminary round began, but the final tournament was cancelled because of the Gulf War.\n\n\"MC Alger advanced to the final tournament.\"\n\nPreliminary round tournament held in Amman, Jordan from 7 to 15 July 1990.\n\n\"Al-Faisaly and Al-Zawra'a advanced to the final tournament.\"\n\nThe final tournament was cancelled because Gulf War.\n\n"}
{"id": "53909110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53909110", "title": "2018 in heavy metal music", "text": "2018 in heavy metal music\n\nThis is a timeline documenting the events of heavy metal in the year 2018.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7769698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7769698", "title": "33rd World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "33rd World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 33rd World Science Fiction Convention, called Aussiecon, was held in Melbourne, Australia, August 14–17, 1975, at the Southern Cross Hotel. \n\nThe guests of honour were Ursula K. Le Guin (pro), Susan Wood (fan), Mike Glicksohn (fan), and Donald Tuck (Australian). Aussiecon was significant in the development of cohesive Australian activity around science fiction and fantasy fandom. The chairman was Robin Johnson. The toastmaster was John Bangsund. Total attendance was 606.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45405910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45405910", "title": "Anti-austerity movement in Greece", "text": "Anti-austerity movement in Greece\n\nThe anti-austerity movement in Greece involves a series of demonstrations and general strikes that took place across the country. The events, which began on 5 May 2010, were provoked by plans to cut public spending and raise taxes as austerity measures in exchange for a bail-out, aimed at solving the Greek government-debt crisis. Three people were killed on 5 May in one of the largest demonstrations in Greece since 1973.\n\nOn , anti-austerity activists organised by the Direct Democracy Now! movement, known as the Indignant Citizens Movement (, \"Kínima Aganaktisménon-Politón\"), started demonstrating in major cities across Greece. This second wave of demonstrations proved different from the years before in that they were not partisan and began through peaceful means. Some of the events later turned violent, particularly in the capital city of Athens. Inspired by the anti-austerity protests in Spain, these demonstrations were organised entirely using social networking sites, which earned it the nickname \"May of Facebook\". The demonstrations and square sit-ins were officially ended when municipal police removed demonstrators from Thessaloniki's White Tower square on 7 August 2011.\n\nOn 29 June 2011, violent clashes occurred between the riot police and activists as the Greek parliament voted to accept the EU's austerity requirements. Incidents of police brutality were reported by international media such as the BBC, \"The Guardian\", CNN iReport and \"The New York Times\", as well as by academic research and organisations Amnesty International. The Athens Prosecutor agreed to an investigation into accusations of excessive use of tear gas, as well as the alleged use of other expired and carcinogenic chemical substances. the investigation is under way.\n\nIn the early to mid-2000s, the government took advantage of Greece's strong economy by running a large deficit. As the world economy cooled in the late 2000s, Greece was hit hard because its main industries—shipping and tourism—were sensitive to changes in the business cycle. As a result, the country's debt began to pile up rapidly. In early 2010 policy makers suggested that emergency bailouts might be necessary.\n\nOn 5 March 2010, the Hellenic Parliament passed the cost-cutting Economy Protection Bill. On 23 April, the Greek government requested that a bailout package offered by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund be activated. The funds were expected to be available quickly, but it was unclear if they would be activated before a crucial 19 May debt rollover. On 27 April, Standard & Poor's cut the country's main debt rating to BB+ (\"junk\" status), increasing concern that a default might occur.\n\nOn 1 May, Prime Minister George Papandreou announced a fourth round of austerity measures by the Greek government, described as \"unprecedented\". These include more public sector pay cuts, pension reductions, new taxes on company profits, an increase on luxury and sin taxes, and an increase of the value added tax. The proposed changes, which aim to save through 2012, represent the biggest government overhaul within a single generation. The cuts are in line with the EU-International Monetary Fund loan proposals, which demand that Greece liberalise its economy. They helped Greece reach a loan agreement, announced on 2 May, for an immediate in loans (with a 5% interest for the most part, provided by the EU), with additional funds available in the future. The total value of the loans was expected to be in the range. Papandreou submitted the bill to Parliament on 4 May.\n\nThe Hellenic Parliament was expected to vote on the proposed austerity measures on 6 May. New Democracy, the conservative minority party, vowed to vote against the bill, but the bill was expected to pass because of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement's large 160-seat advantage in Parliament. The government has pleaded with demoralised staff not to retire, fearing that a surge in benefits requests could further drain the public treasury.\n\nIn separate votes on 29 and 30 June, Parliament approved the austerity measures.\n\nThe 2008 Greek riots started on 6 December 2008, when Alexandros Grigoropoulos (), a 15-year-old student, was killed by two policemen in the Exarcheia district of central Athens. While the unrest was triggered by the shooting incident, commentators described the reactions as expressing deeper causes, especially a widespread feeling of frustration in the younger generation about the economic problems of the country (partly as a result of the global economic crisis), a rising unemployment rate among young people and a perception of general inefficiency and corruption in Greek state institutions. Related sporadic protests continued into 2011 and beyond.\n\nOn May Day, there were protest marches in Athens and Thessaloniki, by many unions, left-wing, anarchist and communist party supporters. Violent clashes broke out when riot police were sent out to contain the protestors.\n\nOn 4 May, members of the Communist Party of Greece broke into the Acropolis of Athens and hung banners: \"Peoples of Europe Rise Up\".\n\nIn response to the proposed spending cuts and tax increases, a nationwide strike was called for 5 May. Starting at midnight, aeroplane, train, and ferry traffic in and out of the country ceased. Schools, some hospitals, and many private businesses were closed. The demonstrations are seen by some as the most widespread since the end of the Greek military junta of 1967–1974.\n\nAn estimated 100,000 people marched through Athens, with some estimates stretching to 500,000. As protests gained momentum, a large group tried to storm the parliament building in Syntagma Square in Athens, where they scuffled with police, causing some of the Presidential Guard to flee from the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. The protesters accused members of parliament of being \"thieves\". Riot police were able to push the crowds back with tear gas, flash bombs and smoke bombs. Nearby buildings, including a finance ministry building, were set on fire. Prime Minister George Papandreou responded \"Nobody has the right to violence and particularly violence that leads to murder. Violence breeds violence.\"\nProtesters set fire to a Marfin Bank branch on Stadiou Street with Molotov cocktails; witnesses said that protestors marching past the bank ignored the employees' cries for help, while others chanted anti-capitalist slogans. Most of the bank's employees managed to escape the burning building, but two employees who jumped from the second-story balcony were injured and two women and a man were found dead after the fire was extinguished. It was reported that fire crews had difficulty reaching the scene because of demonstrations moving through the area. The victims died of asphyxiation from toxic fumes when they were unable to escape from a roof exit that was blocked. They had gone to work despite the general strike over fears of losing their jobs. They have been identified as Paraskevi Zoulia, 35, Angeliki Papathanasopoulou, 32 (who was four months pregnant), and Epaminondas Tsakalis, 36. Papandreou called the incident a \"murderous act\". Michalis Chrysohoidis, the Minister for the Protection of the Citizen, declared that \"today is a black day for democracy...undemocratic forces have [latched on to] a peaceful demonstration of workers and now petrol bombs have killed three of our citizens and put an immediate danger to the lives of others.\" He also stated that \"the killers will be caught and punished accordingly\". Police started a widespread search, with the help of closed-circuit television footage to detect and arrest the suspects. The police blamed \"hooded youth\" for the incident, while one protestor who spoke to BBC blamed police brutality for the escalation of violence which was started when protestors threw Molotov cocktails at police; the police responded with pepper spray and tear gas. In response to the incident, the Greek Federation of Bank Employees' Unions blamed bank management for inadequate safety measures in the building and called for strike action.\n\nElsewhere in Athens, some demonstrators threw rocks, bottles, and pieces of marble at the police. Numerous trash bins were lit on fire. Some broke windows, threw petrol bombs, and committed other acts of vandalism. Other protesters set up barricades and burned cars. Across Athens, at least 12 people were injured, and more than 70 people were detained for questioning.\n\nIn Thessaloniki, 37 people were arrested as a result of the protests.\n\nOn 5 and 6 May 2010, the Hellenic Parliament passed the proposed austerity measures, claiming they show the Greek government's commitment to tackling its budget deficit, amongst continued protests.\n\nAlso on 5 May, the German parliament began debating the bailout package, as Chancellor Angela Merkel urged rapid passage. Merkel remarked that \"Quite simply, Europe's future is at stake.\" The plan requires Germany to provide the largest share, , of the bailout funds. The plan must be approved by 15 Eurozone countries in total.\n\nAnalysts said the protests could mark the beginning of protracted social unrest. If that occurs, the country could be pushed into deep recession. Economists have warned that it could be ten years before the Greek economy recovers, even if it does not worsen first.\n\nThere has been advocacy for a political coalition from within the Greek political elite, and by the Greek journalist Alexis Papahelas who said that Papandreou should 'get rid of some of the novices he has in his government, make an overture to the opposition and go full-steam ahead.'\n\nOne columnist at The Guardian suggested in an editorial that the protests speak of a deeper issue in Greek politics: she asks, 'What the advocates of this scenario [coalition government] do not seem to grasp is that the political class is out of touch with the population,' and 'How can we expect to see solutions and progress by the very same people who are inextricably, causally linked to the problem?' However other sources suggest that the movement was a positive reaction triggering a series of innovative socio-political processes.\n\nThe memorandum signed between Greece and the IMF became largely unpopular in Greece, with some polls showing that 62% believe it was a bad decision. This memorandum came into action 7 October 2011. Amid accusations that the government has not achieved its goals according to the IMF memorandum, some countries in the European Union have stated that they will not be lending Greece any more money if the IMF does not do so, including the Netherlands, Germany and Sweden. Some European officials went so far as to say that Greece should start selling its assets to other European nations to receive loans, and the Dutch Minister of Finance said that the Greek parliament would not like this proposal and characterised the opinion of the Greek parliament as \"a sensibility\" that no one can consider at this time. Meanwhile, unemployment exceeded 15%, while a large percentage of full-time workers only received the minimum wage of 592 Euros, or less. Rumours suggesting Greece's future exclusion from the Eurozone also added to frustration, but these were categorically rejected by the Greek government, the European Central Bank, the Bank of Greece and IMF-director nominee, and French Finance Minister, Christine Lagarde. On 29 June 2011, amid violent protests, the second austerity package was passed with 155 votes in favour in the 300-seat parliament. The next day, the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights of the United Nations reported an independent UN expert's warning that the austerity measures could result in violations of the Greek people's human rights, such as \"rights to food, water, adequate housing and work under fair and equitable conditions\". Meanwhile, other international media have questioned the necessity of a second austerity package, when the first one brought in no results.\n\nWhen Greece signed the Memorandum with the European Union and the IMF in 2010, the matter of the constitutional legality of the memorandum came under criticism in Greece, both by the people and some of the country's most prominent university professors of law. The Athens Association of Lawyers, as well as a number of labour unions, brought the question of the legality of the memorandum to the Council of State of the Greek government, but the Council judged the contract to be constitutional in late June 2011.\n\nApart from the economic crisis, there is also a developing political crisis in the country. The European Commission asked the major parties in Greece to come to an agreement in regards to the new set of austerity measures, but twice the major parties failed. In a poll published on 29 May 2011, the two major parties (the ruling Panhellenic Socialist Movement and the main opposition New Democracy) gathered slightly under 40% of the total number of votes, with the ruling party having 19%, while the opposition came first with 19.5%. In another poll published the same day, the ruling party came first with 20.7% while the opposition came second with 20.4%. According to the polls, neither of the two parties could form a government, even if they combined forces. The lack of co-ordination within the government (with conflicting government officials stating opposing 'government positions') also fuelled the protests. When Maria Damanaki, European Commissioner for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries, stated that \"our withdrawal from the Eurozone is on the table, we have to speak frankly\" on 25 May, Greek banks lost liquidity equal to 1.5 billion Euro from withdrawals in two days.\nMeanwhile, the Minister of Finance, Giorgos Papakonstantinou, vehemently denied that exiting the Eurozone was being considered. On 1 June, the leader of the Popular Orthodox Rally party, Georgios Karatzaferis, announced that his party is considering resigning from parliament, thus causing the dissolution of the Hellenic Parliament and triggering national elections. He also commented that \"I see a Prime Minister that is unable to react, an opposition that is unwilling to play the game, and a Left that is in its own little world\".\n\nOn 23 February 2011, there was a recurrence of violent protests and strikes, involving up to 100,000 people as German Chancellor Angela Merkel called for a renewal of the loan programme to Greece that had been conditioned on fiscal tightening. The measures adopted by Greece were considered harsh by the protesters.\n\nOn 25 May 2011, peaceful demonstrations started in Athens and other major cities, protesting the new austerity measures proposed by the government, in the same spirit as the 2011 Spanish protests. The demonstrations include most major Greek cities: Athens, Thessaloniki, Larissa, Patras, Volos, Rethymno, Tripoli and Kalamata. The demonstration in Athens is coordinated by the Facebook page \"Αγανακτισμένοι Στο Σύνταγμα\" (Indignants at Syntagma). Currently, it is reported that over 90,000 people have registered on the page, and thousands (reportedly over 30,000) have gathered outside the Greek Parliament in Syntagma square. The demonstration in Greece's second-largest city, Thessaloniki, is co-ordinated by the Facebook page \"Αγανακτισμένοι στον Λευκό Πύργο\" (Indignants at the White Tower), and over 35,000 people have said they would 'attend' the protest. Some of the most popular slogans at protest on 25 May were:\n\n\nThis series of demonstrations differed from almost all other demonstrations in Greece's metapolitefsi era (1975–present) in that it was a protest organised without political or trade union affiliations. Demonstrators who expressed political party affiliation during the demonstrations were condemned by the majority of the demonstrators, as the organizers claimed that there was no room for political affiliation or violence in the demonstrations. The focus of the protesters was against the government and the current driving forces of Greek politics, and the International Monetary Fund. As a response to the Spanish slogan \"Be quiet, the Greeks are sleeping\" (which was allegedly heard at the 2011 Spanish protests), a big banner was raised in front of the Spanish embassy in Athens reading \"¡Estamos despiertos! ¿Que hora es? ¡Ya es hora de que se vayan!\" (We've woken up! What time is it? It's time they left!). There was also a strong sense of disapproval for the Prime Minister of Greece, George Papandreou, and the vice-president of the government, Theodoros Pangalos.\n\nThe demonstrations continued nationwide for a second day on 26 May. Despite heavy rainfall in central Athens, reportedly over 14,000 people gathered in front of the Greek parliament for a second day in a row. The media reported that half of the people gathered at Syntagma Square in Athens were youth, whereas the other half were over 40, including families and children. In line with the Spanish quote of \"Be quiet, the Greeks are sleeping\" which triggered the Greek protests, two new banners appeared, one in French (Silence! Les Français dorment! Ils revent de '68, \"Silence! The French are sleeping! They are dreaming of (May) '68\") and one in Italian (Zitti che svegliamo gli Italiani... \"Be quiet, you will wake up the Italians...\"). An information center and a \"book of ideas\" have also been set up at Syntagma Square. Additionally, a number of people were banging pots and pans. In Thessaloniki, Greece's second city and second-largest center of demonstrations, the protesters hung a huge For Sale sign from the city's main landmark, the White Tower, as a protest against the government's massive denationalisation schedule, which they perceived as \"selling away our country's assets\". Although the demonstrations in Thessaloniki were visibly smaller on 26 May, with around 2,500 people participating, competing with a major football game between the city's two major teams and the shops and markets open until late that evening. Some people set up encampments. In Thessaloniki's protests there was much more of a sense of direct democracy, as citizens were free to take the floor and speak, voice their concerns and opinions, and contribute ideas about what should be done next, receiving the full attention of the other demonstrators.\n\nDemonstrations continued for a third consecutive day on 27 May. Thousands of people gathered in front of the Greek parliament, again in heavy downpour, joined by the \"I'm Not Paying\" movement. As a means of protesting, people wearing white masks formed a human shield around the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, in Syntagma Square. The demonstrations continued peacefully, and when one protester shouted a slogan against the police, he was heavily condemned by other demonstrators. On 27 May, the proceedings of the first people's assembly on Syntagma Square were published by the Real Democracy Now! movement. Among them:\n\n\nOn 28 May, demonstrations continued with at least 7,000 people gathered in front of the Greek parliament. A number of new flags appeared, including those of Tunisia, Argentina, Armenia and Hungary. At least 20 people set up tents in the square. Major demonstrations also took place in Thessaloniki, Patras and Heraklion. In Thessaloniki a cycling race was organised as part of the demonstration. All across the country the movement was becoming more organised, media reported, with teams of doctors, translators, and food supplies set up by the protesters, especially at Syntagma Square, which had turned into the main protest center for the country.\n\n\n30 May saw continued demonstrations in Athens and other cities around Greece, although visibly smaller than the demonstrations of 29 May. More than 4,000 people demonstrated in front of the Greek parliament on 30 May, with some sources claiming that over 10,000 people were present. The demonstrators also set up a set of gallows in front of the parliament, demanding that those responsible for the crisis be sent to justice. Over 30 tents were set up in front of the White Tower of Thessaloniki in Greece's second-largest city, where a direct democracy style people's assembly took place every evening.\n\n31 May marked seven days since the start of the protests, and the University of Athens hosted an anti-government protest with the aid of famous Greek composer and anti-dictatorship fighter Mikis Theodorakis, while the dean of the University was also a key speaker at the event. Once the protest at the university was over, the 10,000 protesters joined forces with the demonstrators already in front of the parliament, totalling between 25,000 and 50,000. The demonstrators surrounded the Greek parliament, making it impossible for MPs and workers inside the building to exit. Eight MPs escaped through the adjacent National Gardens. Later, riot police created a passage to enable MPs to exit the parliament, to the loud condemnation of 1,000 protesters gathered at the side entrance.\n\nDemonstrations continued on 1 June. At Corfu, protesters surrounded a restaurant where Greek and foreign members of parliament were having a dinner, shouting slogans against them while a few were throwing rocks and other objects at the politicians. Finally, the officials were forced to escape using a boat, as the restaurant was near the harbour. In Athens, more than 15,000 people gathered in front of the parliament to protest for an eighth day in a row. This time they were also joined by the \"Society for the Protection of Citizens by the Arbitration of Banks\", and also a group of motorcyclists who also showed their support for the protests. Earlier that evening the riot police had closed up the streets leading up to the embassy of Egypt. To avoid being blockaded inside the parliament like on 31 May, the members of parliament left early on 1 June. Among thousands of protesters in Syntagma square, 32 Greek scientists addressed a letter to the members of parliament calling them to announce the whole truth of the situation\n\n5 June was set as a second day of pan-European demonstrations and marked the 12th continuous day of demonstrations. It is estimated that well over 200,000 gathered at Athens' Syntagma Square that evening to protest against the government. Some sources put the number of people in front of the parliament to over 300,000 while the organizers claim that over 500,000 people took part in the demonstration, making it the largest demonstration in Athens since the 1980s. At the people's assembly a direct connection with Madrid's Puerta del Sol was made via Skype. Some tension occurred on 5 June, as protesters were prevented from heading towards Syntagma Square by riot police, which had put together large metallic barriers to close off streets. Police also brought a water cannon to the protests. Demonstrations also took place in Thessaloniki, Patras and Heraklion, as well as many other Greek cities. Some of the most popular slogans of that day included:\n\nDemonstrations continued throughout June, both at Syntagma Square and other squares in cities across the country. On 28 June 2011, Greek unions, including those whose members dominate the country's health, transportation, education, and government jobs began a 48-hour strike, in protest of the deteriorating economic situation and suggestions on the part of the government of new austerity measures. The walkout led to the freezing of a number of public services. Journalists and a number of artists also stopped working in solidarity with the protest. That day demonstrations turned violent as protestors clashed with police in front of the Greek parliament and other areas of central Athens. Violence continued during the night and on 29 June, the day when a new package of deeply unpopular austerity measures was passed. The police attempted to evacuate Syntagma Square of protesters, as well as other key protest points in Athens, by driving through the crowds on motorbikes and throwing stun grenades while making extensive use of tear gas. Media mentioned that the police used unnecessary violence against protesters. Officials from the Athens Metro also said that the police had fired tear gas inside the Syntagma Square metro station. Police also stormed Monastiraki, as well as the streets around the Acropolis, randomly hitting people eating at taverns and making extensive use of chemicals and stun grenades. Doctors at the infirmary set up at Othonos Square said the police had attacked them using stones and pieces of marble. Earlier, two members of the Teacher's Association were attacked by police and were injured, one of them on the head. Police also tried to deny access to the square to an ambulance attempting to transport heavily injured civilians to a hospital. A total of about 270 people were injured on 28 June alone, and over 500 visited the Syntagma Square metro station infirmary on 29 June. The Ministry of Health reported that 99 people were sent to hospitals on 29 June. Following almost two days of violence in the streets in front of the Greek parliament, the Greek TV channel Alter aired a video with claiming that it was showing members of the riot police co-operating with extreme Right syndicalists. The Minister for Citizen Protection, Christos Papoutsis, ordered an immediate investigation in the claims according to which the police collaborrated with hooded neo-Nazis . The damage caused to Athens' historic city center is estimated to be over 500,000 euro, as shop fronts were vandalised by hooded youth. Finally, it had been proved that there was no cooperation between Greek police and the extreme Right syndicalists, but in fact, it was a group of anarchists that had attacked the Right syndicalists and the police had to intervene to end the clashes. Three of Greece's most famous hotels located on Syntagma Square were forced to evacuate their guests and personnel in view of the uncontrollable situation, something that the media say has not happened since the events of December 1944, which started the Greek Civil War.\n\nMeanwhile, in Thessaloniki, a crowd of people had blocked a number of important political and religious figures from exiting the grounds of the Papafeio Orphanage, including Minister of Health Andreas Loverdos and the metropolitan bishop of Thessaloniki, Anthimus. The crowds demanded that the Greek Orthodox Church help Greece in this time of crisis and accused the clergy of receiving oversized salaries. When protesters asked the metropolitan bishop how much his religious attire costs, he replied \"not much, it's fake\". They were forced to exit the grounds through the back door with the aid of the police, using police cars and taxis, while Anthimus left on foot.\n\nDespite the violent protests and use of tear gas by police to evacuate Syntagma Square the previous evening, peaceful protests continued on 30 June with thousands of people gathered in front of the Greek parliament. Demonstrations also took place in Greece's second city, Thessaloniki.\n\nProtests across the country continued in July, marking 5 weeks and 2 days of protest on 1 July. Despite the fact that the austerity measures had been passed, a large crowd, but smaller than on previous days, gathered in front of the Greek parliament to protest peacefully on 2 July.\n\nThe sit-in at Thessaloniki's White Tower Square held throughout July and early August, until the municipal police evacuated the square of all protesters that had camped inside on 7 August 2011. The police said that the protesters were in violation of various archaeological and environmental provisions, while also making seven arrests.\n\nOn 14 August 2011, the indignant protesters at Heraklion's Eleftherias Square agreed to leave the square peacefully, following the intervention of a local prosecutor; the prosecutor had warned that unless the demonstrators evacuate the square, force would be used, like in Athens. Following the evacuation of the square by the protesters, police cleared the square of the kiosk that the demonstrators had set up.\n\nIn an interview for the Greek newspaper \"Ethnos\" on 29 May 2011, the vice-president of the Greek government, Theodoros Pangalos, against whom various slogans had been shouted during the demonstrations, adopted an ironic stance towards the movement. He said that \"the formation of a political movement, however much the people who follow the technological trends don't want to hear this, does not depend on how many 'likes' or 'dislikes' it gets on Facebook\". He added \"movements without ideology and organization, that is to say movements based on anger, can only lead to either an ineffective release [of tension], which at the end of the day is of no interest to the political world, or pave the way for an undemocratic change of regime by organized minorities\". In response, the demonstrations addressed many chants to the vice-president, like \"the country is sinking, Theodore, lose some weight!\" and other more vulgar ones.\n\nOn 29 May, the spokesman of the Greek government, Giorgos Petalotis, spoke out against Pangalos, saying that Pangalos should remember that when he took part in demonstrations against the dictatorship as a member of the Communist Party in 1973, \"some people considered these demonstrations provocative\". He further added that not only does the Indignant Citizens Movement have a clear ideology (even if it is a \"technology trend\" as Pangalos described it), but that it also \"reflects the real needs of the Greek society\". He pointed out that \"denial [of the system] and no proposals lead nowhere\".\n\nOn 1 June, the Prime Minister of Greece, George Papandreou, commented in regards to the Indignant Citizens Movement saying that \"today protesters in Greece and the world are demonstrating against matters of national governance which are more weak than they used to be and, despite their inner weaknesses, are trapped by the global powers and the changes of a global system\".\n\nFollowing the blockade of the Parliament by angry citizens on 31 May, which prevented the MPs inside from exiting the building, and also after the angry reactions against the MPs when they were allowed to exit (such as the throwing of empty water bottles, fruit and other objects), the deputy Minister of Education said \"I understand that the Indignant Citizens Movement is not a threat to democracy, but violence is, and I condemn it\". She added that \"in a democracy, violence should be prevented and not tolerated\" and that \"the majority of the MPs in parliament are young; they should receive the same treatment as old MPs\". The deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs commented that \"I can accept tougher questioning and criticism, but not the leveling of our political system. Democracy can give [a] solution. The flattening of our democracy can only lead to a slippery road. The majority of the Greek people can be angry, but not under these circumstances\".\n\nEuropean Parliament MP Theodoros Skylakakis, who is aligned with the newly founded Democratic Alliance party, said that \"these people need to get a sense of political ideology and move to a deeper revelation: from what they don't like, to what they like\", implying that a non-political movement will be ineffective and without results. Alexis Tsipras, leader of the Synaspismos radical left party and the first party leader to comment on the demonstrations, said that \"no one has the right to make the people [silent], or tell them that they have no say in their country's future by means of a referendum\". He added that the Left should be supportive of the demonstrations and that \"things are turning at a fast pace, and the people are waking up\".\n\nThe Mayor of Athens said on 30 May that the protest was a \"healthy and sound demonstration\", but when a motion was put forth at the municipal council to declare the municipality's support for the demonstrations, the mayor said that he felt \"it is not appropriate to express our sympathy\".\n\nIn an interview with a Greek newspaper on 1 June 2011, the Spanish Democracia real Ya! movement, which organised the 2011 Spanish Protests and sparked the Greek protests, said that its members support the Greek demonstrations and that \"this is only the beginning\".\n\nOn 2 June 2011, 16 parliament members of PASOK publicly demanded of George Papandreou that the parliament make a full report of country's current financial situation. This was caused by the forthcoming second memorandum voting, which George Papandreou characterised as \"urgent\".\n\nIn the early hours of 22 June 2011, George Papandreou and his government narrowly survived a vote of confidence in the Greek parliament, with 155 of the 300 seats voting in favour.\n\nOn 28 June 2011, amid violent protests in the square outside parliament, the Hellenic Parliament voted in favour of passing a new set of austerity measures with a marginal majority of 155 seats in the 300-seat parliament. The measures themselves had attracted much criticism both from the Greek public and within the country's political scene. Between June and July 2011, Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK) went from a 156-seat majority to a 154-seat one, while New Democracy also lost one seat.\n\nThe allegations of police brutality by Greek and foreign media as well as Amnesty International sparked heated debate in the Hellenic Parliament, with all parties in the house asking the government for explanations, including MPs of the ruling PASOK party. The leader of the opposition, Antonis Samaras, characterised the situation as almost that of a \"parastate\", while George Karatzaferis of the Popular Orthodox Rally accused the government of \"not being able to control 200 thugs in central Athens\". The Coalition of the Radical Left party accused the government of \"abolishing the very principles of democracy\" and filed a complaint against the government for \"cheering while at the same time outside the building tear gas was being overly used\". Members of the parliamentary group of PASOK characterised the actions of the police as \"barbaric\" Christos Papoutsis, the Minister for Citizen Protection, denied all accusations claiming that \"it's the police that operates, not the government\". Regarding the video in which police are allegedly helping hooded youth, he said that the people in the video are not police; the Athens Prosecutor accepted the demands for an investigation into the matter. On the matter of the attack on the Sytagma Square metro station using tear gas by police, the minister said that \"people with health issues were transported to hospitals and the others left inside were wearing gas masks more expensive than the ones used by police\". Giannis Ragousis, Minister for Transport, asked for a disciplinary measure to punish those responsible. The European Commission stated that any use of violence is sad and unacceptable.\n\nAdditionally, the Greek government has pledged to amend the constitution as a result of the protests. Among the most important aspects of the constitutional reform will be the change of the functions of the Greek political system. The Greek government has said it will open up the discussion on constitutional amendment in September, both to the public and the media. Other media have pointed out that this could not be legal before 2013 because the constitutional amendment of 2008 forbids any other changes to the constitution prior to 2013.\n\nIn a survey published in June 2011 by Public Issue on behalf of the Greek TV channel Skai, 98% of people asked said they were informed about the protests. Additionally, 95% of people asked said they had positive impressions about the movement. When asked about their overall opinion of the movement, 86% replied either positive (76%) or probably positive (10%) while 6% replied negative, with an additional 2% as probably negative. 35% of the people asked said they had participated in at least one protest. When asked about their opinion in regards to the media coverage of the events, 53% replied negative and 39% positive. 51% thought the demonstrations are a \"very important\" event, while 34% felt it was \"quite important\", with 12% replying they viewed it as either not very important or not important at all. When asked if they believe that the protests may have been politically orchestrated by a political power within the country, 80% replied no and 16% yes. Finally, 52% believed that the protests will bring results, while 39% believed they will not.\n\nDemonstrations were scheduled to continue for \"as long as it takes\". These demonstrations were the largest event to be organised over the internet in Greece. With the exception of Skai TV, Star Channel and Zougla Radio, which provided live coverage of the demonstrations in Athens, media coverage of these events was relatively poor in the first weeks. Major Greek TV channel Mega was forced to temporarily deactivate its Facebook page as thousands of people left negative and derogatory comments on the page because the channel did not cover the events of 29 May. The demonstrations did catch the attention of the International Monetary Fund, and the spokesman of the organisation expressed \"understanding\" for the demonstrators. Additionally, the demonstrations have also been featured in Euronews, \"El País\", \"El Economista\" and CNN. Mikis Theodorakis, prominent Greek songwriter and political activist, especially during the years of the dictatorship (1967–1974), also expressed his support for the movement in an open letter addressed to the demonstrators. Famous Greek singer Giannis Kotsiras also expressed his open support for the initiative. Some members of the Greek clergy have also expressed their open support for the demonstrations, notably bishops Anthimus of Thessaloniki and Ambrosius of Kalavryta.\n\nOn 23 August 2011, there was a demonstration by workers in the tourism sector. The Pan-Worker's Front staged a sit-in at some of Athens' most famous hotels on Syntagma Square, as well as the iconic Electra Palace Hotel in Thessaloniki's Aristotelous Square. Meanwhile, the Federation of Tourism Workers held a 24-hour strike and a demonstration in a central square of Athens. The Federation also said that they would hold another 24-hour strike, but did not define a date for it. The sit-in at various hotels was met with criticism from government officials as well as various labour unions involved in the tourism sector.\n\nIn early September 2011, as new measures were announced by the Minister for Finance on 6 September, various unions of the country's public sector announced they would go on strike. These include teachers, doctors, taxi drivers, customs officials and tax collectors, as well as waste collectors working for the municipality of Athens. Additionally, the air traffic controller's union announced that, in the interest of serving the public, air traffic controllers would not go on strike but would refuse to work overtime. Workers at the Swedens Urban Transport Organization (which includes the Athens Metro) are considering going on strike as well.\n\nOn 5 October 2011, there was a general strike. During the demonstrations police clashed with youth and made 10 arrests. Police are also investigating claims by journalists that they were assaulted by police officers. The police officer who assaulted the journalist was arrested, but then released on 6 October until conclusive evidence is found.\n\nThere were demonstrations in co-ordination with the Occupy Wall Street movement on 15 October. Only 7,000 demonstrators, according to estimates by local media, gathered on Syntagma square in a peaceful demonstration. Further protests and strikes were organised for 19 and 20 October.\n\nThe strikes in fact began on 17 October, when the seaman's union walked off the job for 48 hours, shutting down the ferry services between the islands. Customs officials who clear fuel refinery deliveries also held a 24-hour strike that day. The shortage of fuel and goods in the Greek islands due to the strike of ferry and fuel services has already begun to manifest itself.\n\nThe second day of the protests was marked by clashes between members of Communist Party (KKE) and hard-line protestors (mainly anarchists) who tried to invade the parliament, resulting in the death of one KKE member.\n\nOn 28 October (a national holiday in Greece), protests occurred nationwide. In Thessaloniki, where a national military parade is held annually, protesters prevented the parade from officially taking place (the first time this occurred since the parade was first held in 1941) and shouted slogans against Karolos Papoulias, the President of Greece, who was forced to leave. However, the civilian part of the parade along with the conscriptees marched as planned, acclaimed by the crowd. In Athens, during the annual student parade, several schools turned their heads away from the officials present (which included Anna Diamantopoulou, the Minister of Education), while of the members of the band of the Municipality of Athens attached black ribbons to their instruments. Additionally, a crowd of people had gathered in front of Hotel Grand Bretagne in central Athens (close to the VIP stand) and shouted slogans against the economic crisis. In Heraklion protesters threw eggs at the officials, while in Patras protesters occupied the street where the scheduled student parade was to take place and shouted slogans against the officials present (which included the Minister for Defence). Heckling of politicians occurred in many other cities across the country, including Trikala, Volos, Corfu, Serres, Veroia, Tripoli and Rhodes.\n\nOn 17 November, as part of the ongoing protests that led to the resignation of the Papandreau government, over 50 thousand people marched in Athens\n\nOn 6 December, to mark an anniversary of the death of Alexandros Grigoropoulos, thousands of people marched on the Parliament building, throwing Molotov Cocktails at the police, who responded with tear gas.\n\nOn 12 February, as many as 500,000 protesters gathered in Athens outside the Parliament House to voice opposition to Lucas Papademos' caretaker cabinet's austerity measures which were being debated in Parliament. The passing of the austerity measures is a precondition for the next €130 billion lending package from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund to the Greek government, without which the country would face sovereign default by 20 March. Police used large amounts of tear gas and flash grenades, while protesters hurled stones and Molotov cocktails. In total 45 buildings were set ablaze and 25 protesters and 40 officers were injured. The protests had been preceded by a 24-hour nationwide general strike on 7 February, when the two largest labour unions in Greece said the proposed measures would \"drive Greek society to despair.\"\n\nSpeaking to members of Parliament, Papademos called for calm and urged members to pass the plan while asserting that violence and vandalism had no place in democracy. He also stated to the lawmakers that if the majority of them chose to vote against the austerity measures there would be several onerous consequences, including that the government would not be able to pay the salaries of its employees. On 13 February, the Greek Parliament subsequently approved this latest round of austerity measures by a vote of 199 to 74. On 20 March, the government finally announced they have defaulted and rejected another package from Brussels Bailout and are starting to reform the system. On 5 April, people once again demonstrated against the government after a pensioner named Dimitris Christoulas committed suicide by shooting himself, refusing to share the fate of those people who have had to search for food in garbage.\n\nOn 18 October 2012 another demonstration against austerity measures was held. During the demonstration, clashes broke out and a man died of heart attack outside the parliament.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886378", "title": "Atlantic Championship", "text": "Atlantic Championship\n\nThe Atlantic Championship is a formula race car series with races throughout North America. It has been called Champ Car Atlantics (after its former name), Toyota Atlantics (due to the series' previous history of using Toyota-powered engines), or just Atlantics or Formula Atlantic, although the latter two terms risk confusion with the Sports Car Club of America's amateur Formula Atlantics division.\n\nStarting in 2012, the series was revived with SCCA Pro Racing sanction by Formula Race Promotions, with the series last raced in 2009 under IMSA sanction. FRP switched to USAC sanctioning in 2017.\n\nThe Atlantics series is a developmental open-wheel racing series in North America, also called a \"ladder series\". In 2005, a new factor was announced to solidify this reputation as the last series in which a driver will compete before moving to Champ Car, or the highest levels of sports car racing such as American Le Mans. A US$2 million prize was announced for the winner of the 2006 racing season and future seasons, with the restriction that it can only be used towards the cost of racing in the Champ Car World Series. Simon Pagenaud became champion in 2006 and claimed the first such prize. He promptly moved to Champ Car in 2007 to race for Walker Racing.\n\nThe series champion for 2007, Raphael Matos, also won the $2 million prize towards a Champ Car ride. However, he elected not to accept it as he felt that without other sponsorship, he would be driving for a non-competitive team. Matos instead accepted an offer from the Andretti Green Racing team in the developmental Firestone Indy Lights Series instead, where he was promised the chance to race in the Indy 500 and a future ride in the IndyCar Series. 2007 runner-up Franck Perera, who finished on the podium eight times during the season and won three races ultimately signed to race with Champ Car team Conquest Racing. When Champ Car was purchased by IndyCar prior to the 2008 season, Conquest joined IndyCar with Perera.\n\nAs of 2009, the series offers an unrestricted $1 million prize to the season champion, $500,000 to the runner-up, and $250,000 to the third-place finisher on the season. These season rewards are part of total of $3 million in total prize money, which also features $50,000 for each race win, and other bonuses such as a monetary pole position reward.\n\nStarting in 2006, the series has been run exclusively with Swift 016.a chassis powered by Mazda-Cosworth MZR 2300 cm³ (2.3 L) DOHC inline-4 engines producing 300 bhp (224 kW). The cars are capable of speeds in excess of 175 mph (280 km/h). The new formula has lowered the costs of running a full Atlantic season to around $500,000–$600,000. This reduction in costs, plus the addition of the aforementioned $2 million prize, had an immediate effect on increasing the number of competitors in the series (car count), which had dwindled over the previous few seasons. For example, the 2007 season featured 30 drivers.\n\nAlthough the series had been run on Yokohama tires since 1991, the Japanese company elected to end its relationship with the series after the 2006 series, at which point it was replaced by Cooper Tire and became title sponsor for the series.\n\n\nThe history of Formula Atlantic begins with the SCCA Formula B class, created in 1965 for single-seat formula cars with engines not exceeding 1600 cm³ in capacity. Prior to Formula Atlantic, professional Formula B races were held in the United States from 1965 to 1972, first with the SCCA's poorly supported Formula A, then as part of the SCCA Formula Continental Championship in 1968 (when they were largely overshadowed by the V8-powered Formula 5000 cars) and then as an independent series from 1969 to 1972.\n\nFormula Atlantic as a class evolved in the United Kingdom in 1971 from the US Formula B rules, with 1600 cm³ production-based twin-cam engines (initially dominated by Lotus-Ford Twin Cam-based dry-sump Cosworth Mk.XIII, then by Cosworth BDD when the class became Atlantic in the United States, however other engines like Alfa Romeo and BMW were also eligible). Conceived by John Webb of Brands Hatch (who would later also develop the Sports 2000 class) as a category for national competitors with the performance near a Formula Two car but running costs at or below that of a contemporary Formula Three car. A single (Yellow Pages championship ran in 1971–72, with a rival BP backed series appearing in 1973. 1974 saw the BP series changing sponsor to John Player and the Yellow Pages series becoming backed by John Webb's MCD organisation and Southern Organs. In practice most top drivers competed in both series and there were no date clashes. Only one series ran in 1975-76, in the final year taking the title \"'Indylantic\" and adopting Indianapolis-style single-car qualifying. But the formula was under threat from Formula 3 and no series ran in 1977–78. The series returned in 1979 with backing (for one season only) from Hitachi and continued to 1983, with diminishing grids and few new cars appearing.\n\nAs a result of its similarity to Formula 2 and Formula 3 in terms of chassis regulations, Formula Atlantic typically used chassis closely related to these cars — with performance somewhere in between the two — so most of the manufacturers were familiar from those classes, particularly the likes of Brabham, Lotus, March, Chevron early on, with Ralt and then Reynard later. US manufacturer Swift came to displace the British imports and dominate in North America. Several smaller marques also appeared.\n\nThe first professional races run under Formula Atlantic rules in North America were conducted in 1974 by the Canadian Automobile Sport Clubs (CASC) in Canada (now ASN Canada), drawing much attention and large fields due to its national CTV television coverage. IMSA in the United States took advantage of the large number of teams and organized its own series in 1976.\n\nDuring these years, the series attracted guest drivers from Europe, including Formula One, particularly at the Trois-Rivières street race in Quebec, Canada. Guest drivers included James Hunt, Jean-Pierre Jarier, Riccardo Patrese, Patrick Depailler, Jacques Laffite, Didier Pironi and Vittorio Brambilla.\n\nIn 1977, the SCCA sanctioned the US events and in 1978 the CASC and SCCA series merged and conducted the series jointly until 1983, when it ran as the \"Formula Mondial North American Cup\"; Michael Andretti won the championship. The series could not sustain the success of earlier seasons and was cancelled for 1984.\n\nIn its place a \"Pacific\" series was conducted exclusively on the US West Coast in 1985. This rebirth expanded to an East Coast \"Atlantic\" series the following year and the two ran concurrently through 1990. From 1990 to 2005, the series was sponsored by Toyota and the cars were powered by 1600 cc Toyota 4A-GE engines available in kit form from Toyota Racing Development. With the support of Toyota, the two US series were reunited into a single North American championship and have remained so to this date.\n\nThe same rules were adopted as Formula Pacific (not to be confused with the US Formula Atlantic Pacific Championship) and races were run in Australia and New Zealand, where Formula Pacific became the top class of racing. For a few years the prestigious Macau Grand Prix was run to Formula Pacific rules before becoming a Formula Three race. South Africa also adopted Formula Atlantic rules, but later mandated that the cars were fitted with Mazda Wankel engines.\n\nIn recognition of the global acceptance of the formula it was briefly renamed Formula Mondial in 1983, but this series failed to materialize.\n\nAmong Atlantic drivers in races through 1982 were Keke Rosberg, Gilles villeneuve, Michael Andretti, Bobby Rahal, Howdy Holmes, Tom Gloy, Dave McMikllan, Kevin Cogn, Jacques Villeneuve Sr, Chris Kneifel and Roberto Moreno.\n\nIn 1983, Jon Norman, Gudrun and Rick Shea and Tim Fortner, formed West Coast Atlantic Racing - WCAR - and ran a series of professional races for Atlantic cars on the U.S. west coast, with Al Brizzard as Chief Steward. WCAR had originally sprung up with the FIA's \"Formula Mondial\" championship and when that folded prematurely, WCAR became Atlantic racing in the United States.\n\nOn the east coast, Vicki O'Connor decided to establish a similar series. Thus, East Coast Atlantic Racing - ECAR - was born. Simultaneously, Vicki established Pro-Motion Agency Ltd as the organizing and managing body to run the series and had SCCA as the sanctioning body.\n\nThe first ECAR race was at Summit Point Motorsports Park in West Virginia on 07 Jul 1985. Incidentally, this race and all subsequent Atlantic series races except those on ovals, used a series signature standing start following a group warm-up lap.\n\nBoth WCAR and ECAR ran races for a while until the two series were merged under Vicki's management in 1991.\n\nVicki brought to the management of the Atlantic series the many years of experience she'd accumulated while working for Carl Haas in his Lola, Hewland and other racing equipment import business, and more directly, her involvement in Carl's race team management in the CanAm and other series.\n\nVicki's biography as a member of the Road Racing Drivers Club reads in part \"… the Toyota Atlantic Series which developed into the most successful and longest-running open-wheel driver development series in North America\".\n\nThe Toyota Atlantic Series ran on road courses, ovals, street courses and airports in the United States, Canada and Mexico.\n\nThe success of the series brought it the sponsorship and engine development of Toyota Motor Corporation in 1989 under its North American competition division, Toyota Racing Development, led by Les Unger.\n\nLater races were sanctioned by CART (Championship Auto Racing Teams) when CART bought Promotion Agency, LTD. When Champ Car succeeded CARt in 2004, Toyota Atlantic continued under their sanctioning. The series ended with the bankruptcy of Champ Car in 2007.\n\nThe series raised to prominence a great number of drivers including Michael Andretti, Jacques Vlleneuve, Scott Goodyear, Joey Hand, Buddy Rice, Sam Hornish, Ryan Hunter-Reay, Brian Till, Dan Wheldon, Alex Tagliani, Calvin Fish, Danica Patrick, Simon Pagenaud, A. J. Allmendinger, Graham Rahal and Katherine Legge.\n\nThe latest in a long line of television celebrities to enter this series—starting with Dick Smothers at the very first race in 1968—was Frankie Muniz of the Fox Network comedy Malcolm in the Middle, making his debut in 2007. Sharing the dream of many American open wheel racers, Muniz stated his intention to use Champ Car Atlantics as a direct path to racing in the Champ Car World Series.\n\nA few women have chosen to participate in Atlantic racing under the Toyota Atlantic or Atlantic Championship powered by Mazda banner.\n\nAs mentioned in the list of former drivers, Danica Patrick was an Atlantic competitor in 2003 and 2004. She was the first woman to score a pole position in the series and the first woman to finish on the podium. She also led the 2004 season briefly before finishing third overall in season results, but did not score a win in two years of Atlantic competition.\n\nKatherine Legge also competed in Atlantic for a season. In 2005, she became the first woman in history to win a professional open wheel race in North America, at Long Beach, CA. She then amassed two more wins in the same season and finished third overall in season results.\n\nChristal Waddy was the first African American female Motorsport Director in the United States for a professional motorsport team. In 2006 Christal campaigned a two car entry for car owner Bob Gelles of Gelles Racing sponsored by Western Union. Driver Robbie Pecorari won a race in Toronto, Canada and finished eleventh in points. Stephen Simpson competed in three races with his best finish of fifth place in Monterrey, Mexico. Christal was also the owner of sponsor Roadblock Protective Systems and Team Manager for BMW of Sterling Motorsports.\n\nSimona De Silvestro was an Atlantic Championship contender who led a large portion 2009 Atlantic Championship season, ultimately finishing third. In three years in the series, she has bettered Katherine Legge's career mark of three wins, with one in 2008 and four in 2009.\n\nOn October 31, 2008, an official announcement was made that the Atlantic Championship series had been purchased by Ben Johnston, an Atlanta area businessman and one-time Atlantic racer. At the same time, Mazda and Cooper Tires also announced a continuing commitment to the series. Then, in 2009, Mazda recommitted its support to the Atlantic Championship by extending an engine contract that covers the series through the year 2011.\n\nAtlantic Championship races have previously been shown on multiple networks, including SPEED. For 2009, a new high definition television package was announced on HDNet, which features live coverage of certain events and replays of others.\n\nWeb video of events has also historically been available on the series website, and the series also has its own official YouTube channel under the username \"AtlanticRacingSeries.\"\n\nIn early 2010, Atlantic Championship personnel publicized several features intended to attract new drivers and retain existing racers and teams. One was to brand the series as the \"Road to F1\", announcing that \"at least one current European F1 team manager\" would be in attendance to monitor a test for interested racers. Another was to announce prize money that would be paid directly to drivers, rather than to teams. Another press release listed teams that were committed to the series.\n\nDespite these efforts, on March 3, 2010 series officials announced that the 2010 season had been put on hold. Robert Davis of Mazda North American Operations said: \"All of us at Mazda are disappointed that the Atlantic Championship will be on hiatus this year.\" Series president Ben Johnston stated: \"The Atlantic Championship office will be working during the down time in order to deliver an unparalleled racing offering when economic conditions allow.\"\n\nOn December 29, 2011, Mike Rand, Bob Wright and Al Guibord Jr. of Formula Race Promotions, which operates the F1600 and F2000 Championship Series sanctioned by the Sports Car Club of America's Pro Racing Division, announced the Atlantic Championship would be revived for the 2012 season with a schedule that will be held during three of their F1600 and F2000 series weekends - Road Atlanta (May 10–12), New Jersey Motorsports Park (June 28-July 1) and Summit Point Raceway (August 24–26). SCCA engine and chassis rules will apply and the cars will race exclusively on Hoosier tires.\n\nOn December 21, 2012, it was announced that the 2013 schedule had been suspended. On October 1, 2013, it was announced that the series would return in 2014 with a twelve race, six weekend race calendar.\n\nFor the 2017 Atlantic Championship, sanctioning transitioned from the SCCA to the United States Auto Club but Formula Race Promotions continued in their role as promoter.\n\nIn 2018, the series will allow the former Star Mazda cars to compete.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23412316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23412316", "title": "Awareness avatar", "text": "Awareness avatar\n\nThe awareness avatar is a method of creating rapid awareness in social media through avatar modification or a single icon's use. The awareness avatar may have first been used in the New Zealand Internet Blackout, to protest copyright law changes in New Zealand. Globally, protesters replaced their icons with black squares to show solidarity. The protest was successful and proved the method effective at both raising awareness and effecting change.\n\nSince, other campaigns have used this protest method.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40242668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40242668", "title": "Birangona", "text": "Birangona\n\nBirangona (Bengali: \"war heroine\") was the title awarded by the Government of Bangladesh to women raped in the Bangladesh Liberation war. \n\nOn 16 December 1971 Bangladesh won its independence from Pakistan through the Bangladesh Liberation war. There was mass rape during the Bangladesh Liberation war with an estimated 200,000-400,000 women were raped by Pakistan Army and their collaborators. On 22 December 1971 the Government of Bangladesh declared women who had been raped Birangona or war-heroine. President Sheikh Mujibur Rahman asked Bangladesh to \"give due honor and dignity to the women oppressed by the Pakistani army\" and called them his daughters. Yet many of them committed suicide, a section of them left the country to work as servants abroad, and a great many were killed in the hands of the unskilled mid-wives during abortion. This prompted the government to set up 'seba sadans' to give them clinical support. Kendrio Mohila Punorbashon Songstha was established in January 1972 to rehabilitate these violated women with the technical and humanitarian support from International Planned Parenthood, the International Abortion Research and Training Centre, and the Catholic Church. Later, the government provided them with vocational training and launched a campaign to get them married. Which led to accusations that Bangladesh was trying to hide the Birongonas. The Birangonas have often been ostracised by society and their family members. \n\nWomen Rights activists have called for the Birangona to be declared Freedom Fighters (Mukti Bahini). Bangladesh National Women Lawyers Association and Mitali Hossain filled a petition with Bangladesh High Court to upgrade the status of Birangona. On 27 January 2014, the High Court asked the government of Bangladesh why it should not be directed to do so. On January 2015 the parliament of Bangladesh approved a proposal to upgrade the status of Birangona to freedom fighter status. On 23 October 2015 Bangladesh government for the first time declared 43 Birangona, Freedom Fighters. Liberation War Affairs Minister AKM Mozammel Haque said that now they would enjoy the same government benefits as Freedom Fighters.\n\n"}
{"id": "7727406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727406", "title": "Black and White Ball", "text": "Black and White Ball\n\nThe Black and White Ball was a masquerade ball held on November 28, 1966 at the Plaza Hotel in New York City. Hosted by author Truman Capote, the ball was in honor of \"The Washington Post\" publisher Katharine Graham.\n\nTruman Capote decided in June 1966 to throw a lavish party. He was at the height of his popularity as an author and as a public figure following the publication of his non-fiction novel, \"In Cold Blood\", earlier that year. For the first time Capote had the financial resources to host a party he deemed worthy of the friends he had cultivated in high society.\n\nAccording to Capote's friend, the writer and editor Leo Lerman, Capote had declared in 1942 on a journey to the writer's colony Yaddo that when he, Capote, became rich and famous he would throw a party for his rich and famous friends. Capote always discounted the story but through constant repetition it became part of the ball's legend.\n\nCapote's friend, author Dominick Dunne, had given a black and white ball in 1964 for his tenth wedding anniversary. Capote attended with Alvin Dewey and others he had met while researching \"In Cold Blood\". Capote was also inspired by the \"Ascot scene\" from the film \"My Fair Lady\" in which the women were all dressed in black and white.\n\nAfter deciding to throw the party, Capote had to select a guest of honor. Throwing the party for himself would have been viewed by his society friends as vulgar. Rather than selecting from amongst his stable of beautiful society women he called his \"swans\", Capote chose \"The Washington Post\" publisher Katharine Graham. \"Truman called me up that summer and said, 'I think you need cheering up. And I'm going to give you a ball.'...I was...sort of baffled...I felt a little bit like Truman was going to give the ball anyway and that I was part of the props.\"\n\nFor his venue, Capote chose the Grand Ballroom of the Plaza Hotel in New York City. Capote had long held a deep affection for the Plaza, even setting the opening scene of his attempted first novel, \"Summer Crossing\", in a Plaza dining room. Capote enlisted Evie Backer, who had decorated his apartment at United Nations Plaza, for the event's decor. Initially Capote planned to cover the ballroom's white and gold walls with heavy red drapes but Backer and Capote's friend Babe Paley convinced him to abandon this idea. Instead he brought in the color with red tablecloths. Rather than flowers, Capote had the tables adorned with gold candelabra wound with smilax and bearing white tapers. The night's menu, to be served at midnight, consisted of scrambled eggs, sausages, biscuits, pastries, spaghetti and meatballs and chicken hash, a specialty of the Plaza and one of Capote's favorite dishes. To drink Capote laid in 450 bottles of Taittinger champagne.\n\nCapote spent a total of $16,000 on the ball.\n\nCapote purchased a black-and-white composition book and spent most of July sitting by his friend Eleanor Friede's pool compiling his initial guest list. Capote carried the book with him everywhere he went for the next three months, constantly adding and deleting names.\n\nBefore the ball, many of the guests attended one of sixteen small private dinner parties that Capote's friends had been drafted to host.\n\nThe Black and White Ball was credited with starting an immediate upsurge in masquerade and costume parties. It has been described as \"a pinnacle of New York's social history\". Six days after the ball, on the December 4 episode of the television panel show \"What's My Line?,\" panelist Arlene Francis wore the mask she had worn at the party, transformed into a blindfold. The wearing of blindfolds during the show's special Mystery Guest segment was customary on the part of the panel.\n\nPrincess Yasmin Aga Khan hosted a Black and White Ball in 1991, commemorating the 25th anniversary of the original. The ball, held in a tent outside Tavern on the Green, was a charity event that raised $1.4 million for the Alzheimer's Association.\n\nIn anticipation of selling the contents of the Plaza Hotel, Christie's Auction House recreated the Black and White Ball in 2006 at Rockefeller Center. The event followed Capote's dress code, schedule and menu exactly and the Peter Duchin Orchestra, which had played the original, played the recreation.\n\nTV chef Ina Garten recreated a scaled-down version of the event for a themed dinner party on her daytime cookery show Barefoot Contessa. She served chicken hash followed by French toast and truffles for dessert, in keeping with the black and white theme of Capote's party.\n"}
{"id": "792886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=792886", "title": "Brighton Applefest", "text": "Brighton Applefest\n\nThe Brighton Applefest was created in 1975 by the merchants of Brighton, Ontario, Canada to promote the Brighton area, and the apple-based culture around it. It is now Brighton's largest yearly event, taking place annually during the last week of September, and can draw up to 30,000 visitors. The attendance at the 2011 festival, which did not feature the typical car show, was estimated at 20,000.\n\nThe festival offers a variety of attractions. Its primary draw is its parade, and a street festival featuring fresh foods and local crafts. Other attractions include hayrides, a classic car show, live music, and a children's amusement park, in addition to a vendors selling local arts and crafts.\n"}
{"id": "57327709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57327709", "title": "Caftan Show", "text": "Caftan Show\n\nCaftan Show () is the premiere fashion event in Morocco since 2002, it's where Moroccan fashion designer tries to showcase their upcoming line of Moroccan Caftans during a big competition. The Caftan show debuts every year, particularly the Spring season. it is created by Femmes du Maroc and aired on 2M TV Morocco.\n"}
{"id": "22492538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22492538", "title": "Clash of Loyalties", "text": "Clash of Loyalties\n\nClash of Loyalties (, aka The Great Question) is a 1983 Iraqi film focusing on the formation of Iraq out of Mesopotamia in the aftermath of the First World War.\n\nThe film was financed by Saddam Hussein, filmed in Iraq (mainly at the Baghdad Film Studios in Baghdad's Mansour neighbourhood and on location at the Tigris-Euphrates marshlands, Babylon and Kut) at the height of the Iran–Iraq War and starred Oliver Reed as Gerard Leachman, Marc Sinden as Captain Dawson and Helen Ryan as Gertrude Bell, with a stirring score by Ron Goodwin.\n\nInvestigative journalist James Montague, writing in the July 2014 issue of \"Esquire\" magazine, claimed that Marc Sinden spied for the British Government's Secret Intelligence Service (MI6) during the filming of \"Clash of Loyalties\" in Iraq, after being made \"an offer he couldn’t refuse, appealing to his duty and his pride in Queen and Country.\" In the article Sinden admitted that it was true.\n\nIt is known for being the last film made to use the now banned \"Running W\" technique, invented by famed stuntman Yakima (Yak) Canutt, which was a method of bringing down a horse at the gallop by attaching a wire, anchored to the ground, to its fetlocks and so launching the rider forwards spectacularly at a designated point. It invariably killed the horse, or at best it was unrideable afterwards. The British stuntman Ken Buckle (who had been trained by Yak) performed the highly-dangerous stunt three times during the huge cavalry charge sequence.<ref name=\"Kent Messenger 12/10/84\">Kent Messenger 12/10/84</ref>\n\nBoth Arab and English versions of the film were produced.\n\nThe film was nominated for the Golden Prize at the 13th Moscow International Film Festival in 1983. It was screened at the 1984 London Film Festival, but was not otherwise shown theatrically in the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "36607031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36607031", "title": "Counterfeit medicines online", "text": "Counterfeit medicines online\n\nThe online distribution of counterfeit medicines has been growing during the last decades. The role of Internet as an unregulated medicine market is the main reasons behind this phenomenon, especially the effectiveness of “spam” as a tool for advertising and promoting these products. Websites and social media are new powerful instruments that organized criminal groups could exploit to conduct their illicit businesses. The spread of this emerging threat worldwide poses a very high risk for the health and safety of unaware consumers.\n\nOn 29 May 2017, the World Health Assembly hosted by the World Health Organization agreed to have “Substandard and Falsified (SF) medical products” as the term to be used in all future documentation on the subject of substandard, spurious, falsified, falsely-labelled and counterfeit (SSFFC) medical products. Under this definition, a counterfeit medicine is a falsified pharmaceutical product. The term \"counterfeit\" is avoided as this is connected to intellectual property rights rather than public health. The meaning associated with “counterfeit medicines” incorporates various cases that are ascribable to the intentional replication of a product, or product parts, without permission.\n\nThe Internet has radically changed the approach towards commerce, drastically modifying also buyers’ attitudes towards the purchase of goods in general. Research has demonstrated that using a computer to fill a prescription online and using online chat groups to learn about health topics are strong independent predictors of prescription drug importation from foreign countries by United States consumers.\n\nIf on the one side the Internet created new opportunities for consumers, on the other it also represents a new powerful instrument that organized criminals could exploit to conduct their illicit businesses. With the Internet criminals have found an emerging marketplace that could possibly be exploited in many different ways to take advantage of the almost unlimited possibilities offered by cyberspace.\nIn recent years counterfeiters have been exploiting the Internet as an important channel to offer counterfeit medicines both at the wholesale and at the retail level, often creating an independent distribution process which directly targets distributors and final users.\n\nAt the wholesale, counterfeiter can exploit distributors’ constant search for low costs products to maximize the profit. For what concerns the retail level, counterfeiters deceive consumers both with low prices and by sending a constant stream of spam messages to their e-mail inboxes. It is clear that the development of new communication technologies and the possibility of exploiting the massive Internet market, has unwillingly favored illegal activities.\n\nBrowsing through the Internet, it is easy to hit on online pharmacies that operate according to the regulations and with transparency. For them, criminals are harsh unscrupulous competitors who advertise fake drugs and put at risk the reputation of all online pharmacies which operate honestly. \nHowever, the Internet nowadays plays a significant role in the worldwide diffusion of counterfeit pharmaceutical products. \nTo support the business of legal online pharmacies, some institutions (for instance in the U.S.) developed an accreditation system for both online pharmacies connected with territorial ones and for those only operating through the Internet. Main limits concerning these systems are: the official seals of these institutions, to be posted on pharmacies website as a warrantee, can be roughly imitated; these institutions operate at the national level and, due to the different domestic laws of the countries, it is difficult for any of them to provide customers with reliable information concerning the quality of pharmaceuticals available online.\n\nAn overview of the various typologies of illicit e-pharmacies is now presented, basically focused on rogue and fake e-pharmacies. \nRogue e-pharmacies are those that not adhere to accepted standards of medicine and/or pharmacy practice, including standards of safety, thus violating regulations, and those that engage in fraudulent and deceptive business practices. They sell counterfeit pharmaceuticals through ad hoc designed websites which pretend authenticity and often contain features which aim to imitate legitimate ones. The impact of illicit e-pharmacies should not be underestimated: sewage epidemiology showed that >60% of the consumed sildenafil in the Netherlands was obtained from illegal sources. The consumers still seem unable to grasp the risks associated with this particular issue. This happens also because the issue of online sales of counterfeit medicines does not seem to receive due attention by the media. \nOn the other side, through fake e-pharmacies cyber criminals do not really sell medicines, but only use them as baits to defraud online buyers, as in the case of ID theft and credit card cloning. The scheme implies a spider-web composed of numerous websites aiming to attract victims. The goal is to infect the computers of the latter with a virus to steal valuable data.\n\nBoth types of deceptive e-pharmacies - rogue and fake ones - are often efficiently promoted by spam messages, which work even better during times of health crisis, when people go into frenzy over certain types of medicines and when there is a surge of cyber criminals seeking to cash in on the pandemic.\n\nThe exploitation of the Internet by criminals caused the spread of uncontrolled and unverified pieces of information and products.\nInternet search engines, for instance, unwillingly contribute to keep illegal e-pharmacies in business. The struggle against rogue and fake online pharmacies requires combined efforts at different levels.\n\nBesides the already mentioned “attractive factors”. such as lower prices and anonymity, counterfeiters also use a variety of deceiving methods that are based on the fact that the potential buyers will never have the possibility to verify the authenticity of what is presented in the fake website. \nOne of these elements is the logos of genuine online pharmacies, or the approval seal of controlling authorities. Moreover, to reassure potential consumers very often it is requested a medical prescription, as a requisite to purchase the online medicines. \nThanks to these strategies, the phenomenon of counterfeit medicines sold online is more and more increasing. According to the EAASM (European Alliance for Access to safe Medicines) 6 times out of 10, medicines bought online turned to be fakes.\n\nWith the launch of Operation Pangea in 2008, for the first time illegal online pharmacies were targeted at the international level. In particular, the operation targeted three main components used by illegal websites: the ISP (Internet Service Provider), the payment systems and the delivery service.\nAlong the years the operation gained notable momentum as the number of the participating countries rose from 10 to more than 80 in 2011. The four operations Pangea carried out between 2008 and 2011 led to always increasing number of arrests and seizures all around the world. In 2011 Pangea IV was the largest operation of its kind, involving 165 agencies and leading to the seizure of 2.4 million illicit and counterfeit pills originating from 43 countries; the shutting down of 13,500 websites and the inspection of 45,000 packages.\n\nDue to the almost unlimited possibilities offered by cyberspace, purchasing pharmaceuticals over the Internet is easy while, on the contrary, tracing the various phases within the distribution chain can be difficult. It is for this reason that cooperation among different law enforcement agencies in different countries becomes essential.\n\nAnother interesting element to be analyzed is the role of spamming, to present how criminals are able to increase the possibility of success of their deceiving actions by reaching a greater number of potential victims and advertise their products. The term spam is used to describe the abuse of electronic messaging systems in order to indiscriminately send unsolicited bulk messages. The term unsolicited refers to the fact that the message is sent without a verifiable permission granted by the recipient. A message is considered bulk when it is sent as part of a larger collection of messages, all of which have an identical content. \"Spam is a problem of consent, rather than content\". This is a significant element to take into consideration, as attempts to regulate contents of e-mail messages risk to contribute undermining the freedom of speech instead of efficiently fighting the phenomenon of spamming. \n92% to 96% of e-mails received by most organizations are spam. Spam volumes around the world reach about 250 billion messages a day, that is to say almost 40 spam e-mail messages a day for each woman, man and child in the world. As it is a cheap and anonymous way to promote products on the Internet and since it also allows reaching a large number of people all over the world, spamming represents a very powerful advertising instrument. It is therefore one of the favorite ways used by organized crime to advertise their illegal activities and illicit products.\n\nOnline trade of counterfeit pharmaceuticals does not escape the rule and medicines are by all means among the most spammed online products. In particular, in some cases it is particular easy for spammers to take advantage of consumers’ weaknesses. \nSome of the steps taken by organized criminals to make their operation effective are now presented. \nIn the past years several companies settled a series of actions against spammers. The various “joint actions” put in place are an important sign of the determination of the private sector to stop the misuse of the Internet for illegal purposes, nevertheless there are thousand of other smaller companies dealing with spamming on a daily basis that are unable to dispose of such amount of technological, financial and human resources to get engaged in such a fight.\n\nThe interest of organized crime towards the illicit trafficking of counterfeit medicines is clearly demonstrated by figures. For instance, a pill of ecstasy costs between €0.20 and €0.30 and it is generally sold at €5. A Viagra pill costs around €0.15 and it is sold via an illicit website at around 8 to €10. A kilo of counterfeit Viagra pills (1,700 units) costs €255 and the retail value is from 13,600 to €17,000.\n\nOrganized crime is very much involved in the activity of many rogue and fake e-pharmacies all over the Internet, also through the spamming activity. Spamming is usually part of a wider criminal scheme: spam is a powerful advertising tool therefore organized criminals use it in order to expand their market. In this regard organized crime could rather be seen as a veritable illicit enterprise in which spammers hold the role of a sort of an advertising department.\n\nCriminal operations over the Internet are clearly facilitated by the fact that it is indeed easy to register a domain name and to set up a website in a country, to create a back office in another one and to install an online shop in a third country, especially if one considers that many criminal groups operating at the transnational level already have established alliances and operate in several countries. Once the online shop is operational, it could as well easily direct payments to a fourth country and eventually invest the profits in a tax haven. Moreover, very often, in order to further confuse investigators, money is transferred between a chain of bank accounts, creating a smoke-screen which makes investigations more difficult.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34349914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34349914", "title": "Dipak K. Das", "text": "Dipak K. Das\n\nDipak Kumar Das (1947 – September 19, 2013) was the director of the Cardiovascular Research Center at the University of Connecticut Health Center in Farmington. Das is known for his work on the beneficial properties of resveratrol, which is found in red wine, but at least twenty of his research papers have been retracted.\n\nOn January 11, 2012 the University of Connecticut Health Center announced that a review board has found Das guilty of 145 counts of fabrication or falsification of data. The three-year investigation examined more than seven years of activity in Das’s lab, and centered on Western blot results that had been manipulated and used in published papers. The investigation into Das was sparked by an anonymous allegation of research irregularities in 2008. In May 2012, Das was fired from both positions at the University of Connecticut Health Center. He then sued for $35 million in damages, citing libel.\n\nDas graduated from Jadavpur University and received his Ph.D. from Calcutta University in India. He joined the University of Connecticut in 1984 and received tenure in 1993.\n\nDas was a prolific publisher of research. His name appears on over 500 articles, including 117 articles on resveratrol. Das was an editor-in-chief of the journal \"Antioxidants and Redox Signaling\". He also served as associate editor of the \"American Journal of Physiology. Heart and Circulatory Physiology\" and consulting editor of \"Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry\". His work on alcohol, HDL, and the heart was mentioned in \"The New York Times\". He also gained attention in 2009 after publishing a study on the heart benefits of crushed garlic. Dipak died on September 19, 2013.\n\nThe data fabrication began in 2005 when \"there was no one in the lab with the expertise to prepare Western blots.\" UConn investigators revealed that \"many figures had more manipulations but, for expediency, the review board only noted the most obvious\" in flagging 145 cases of misconduct. The report stated that \"given the large number of irregularities discovered, which were done over several years and in several different ways, the review board can only conclude that they were the result of intentional acts of data falsification and fabrication, designed to deceive.\"\n\nThe university has notified 11 scientific journals that have published studies Das conducted, and the U.S. Office of Research Integrity has launched an independent investigation of his work.\n\nIn January 2012, University of Connecticut officials reported that dismissal proceedings were underway against Das. The Health Center has frozen all research in Das’s laboratory and declined to accept federal grants awarded to him.\n\nIt was reported by the Hartford Courant in January 2013 that Das wanted to file a $35 million defamation lawsuit against UConn. He died before the case went to court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31960672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31960672", "title": "Evacuation of children in the Spanish Civil War", "text": "Evacuation of children in the Spanish Civil War\n\nAs the Spanish Civil War proceeded on the Northern front (from 1937 onwards), the Spanish Republican authorities arranged the evacuation of children.\n\nThese Spanish War children were shipped to Britain, Belgium, the Soviet Union, other European countries and Mexico. These children were referred to as \"Basque refugees\", but included also non-Basques. They were embarked in Bilbao (Santurtzi) on boats chartered by the Basque government, loyal to the Republic. Those in Western European countries were able to return to their families after the war, but those in the Soviet Union, from Communist families, were forbidden to return – by Stalin and by Franco. The first opportunity for most of them to do so came in 1956, three years after Stalin's death. They lived in Soviet orphanages and were regularly transferred from one orphanage to another according to the progress of the Second World War. Thus they experienced the War and its effects on the Soviet Union at first hand.\n\nJust under 4,000 children arrived at the Southampton Docks on 23 May 1937. They travelled to Britain on the steamship \"Habana\". The ship had been equipped to accommodate 800 passengers, but this voyage consisted of 3,886 children, 96 teachers, 118 assistants, and 16 Catholic priests. All the children and accompanying adults were housed in a single, large refugee camp in North Stoneham, Eastleigh, near Southampton..The camp at North Stoneham had been finished construction only two days prior to their arrival. A local farmer Mr Brown, had provided three of his fields to be used for the Basque children's camp. Work on the camp had begun two weeks before, but the estimated numbers had then been only 2,000, the number was then increased to an expected 4,000. The camp and the sleeping tents were overcrowded. Sanitation was also a problem in the beginning as the children had been living through war and their hygienic habits had been disrupted by their turbulent lives. Even with the cramped conditions illness was not a large problem within the camp.\n\nThe children were under the overall care of the Basque Children's Committee (BCC) part of the National Joint Committee for Spanish Relief (NJCSR) a cross-party organization that co-ordinated aid to Spain.The plan was to move the refugees out of the camp and disperse them into 'colonies' throughout Britain. These 'colonies' consisted of groups of children each with an accompanying Spanish teacher and assistants, they were housed in both large and small houses that were lent, or otherwise made available; some colonies were large - a hundred or more children , and some housed only a dozen or so. By September all of the children were moved into these colonies. Several hundred were taken in by The Salvation Army, the Catholic Church took about a third of the children, the rest were cared for and supported by many organizations including churches, political and humanitarian groups, local association, businesses and individuals and other volunteers. As the war in Spain progressed and areas became safer the children started to be repatriated, the first few after barely a month. The Spanish Civil War ended 1 April 1939 to be followed rapidly by and the beginning of the Second World War in September. By this time only some 400 children remained in Britain, and by 1948 only 280 remained. Throughout their stay and the subsequent repatriations those age 16 and above were allowed to decide whether or not they wanted to leave the country. Some had to stay because their parents had been killed or imprisoned, others stayed by choice and made their lives in Britain.\n\n"}
{"id": "26626178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26626178", "title": "Failure of electronic components", "text": "Failure of electronic components\n\nElectronic components have a wide range of failure modes. These can be classified in various ways, such as by time or cause. Failures can be caused by excess temperature, excess current or voltage, ionizing radiation, mechanical shock, stress or impact, and many other causes. In semiconductor devices, problems in the device package may cause failures due to contamination, mechanical stress of the device, or open or short circuits.\n\nFailures most commonly occur near the beginning and near the ending of the lifetime of the parts, resulting in the bathtub curve graph of failure rates. Burn-in procedures are used to detect early failures. In semiconductor devices, parasitic structures, irrelevant for normal operation, become important in the context of failures; they can be both a source and protection against failure.\n\nApplications such as aerospace systems, life support systems, telecommunications, railway signals, and computers use great numbers of individual electronic components. Analysis of the statistical properties of failures can give guidance in designs to establish a given level of reliability. For example, power-handling ability of a resistor may be greatly derated when applied in high-altitude aircraft to obtain adequate service life.\nA sudden fail-open fault can cause multiple secondary failures if it is fast and the circuit contains an inductance; this causes large voltage spikes, which may exceed 500 volts. A broken metallisation on a chip may thus cause secondary overvoltage damage. Thermal runaway can cause sudden failures including melting, fire or explosions.\n\nThe majority of electronic parts failures are packaging-related. Packaging, as the barrier between electronic parts and the environment, is very susceptible to environmental factors. Thermal expansion produces mechanical stresses that may cause material fatigue, especially when the thermal expansion coefficients of the materials are different. Humidity and aggressive chemicals can cause corrosion of the packaging materials and leads, potentially breaking them and damaging the inside parts, leading to electrical failure. Exceeding the allowed environmental temperature range can cause overstressing of wire bonds, thus tearing the connections loose, cracking the semiconductor dies, or causing packaging cracks. Humidity and subsequent high temperature heating may also cause cracking, as may mechanical damage or shock.\n\nDuring encapsulation, bonding wires can be severed, shorted, or touch the chip die, usually at the edge. Dies can crack due to mechanical overstress or thermal shock; defects introduced during processing, like scribing, can develop into fractures. Lead frames may contain excessive material or burrs, causing shorts. Ionic contaminants like alkali metals and halogens can migrate from the packaging materials to the semiconductor dies, causing corrosion or parameter deterioration. Glass-metal seals commonly fail by forming radial cracks that originate at the pin-glass interface and permeate outwards; other causes include a weak oxide layer on the interface and poor formation of a glass meniscus around the pin.\n\nVarious gases may be present in the package cavity, either as impurities trapped during manufacturing, outgassing of the materials used, or chemical reactions, as is when the packaging material gets overheated (the products are often ionic and facilitate corrosion with delayed failure). To detect this, helium is often in the inert atmosphere inside the packaging as a tracer gas to detect leaks during testing. Carbon dioxide and hydrogen may form from organic materials, moisture is outgassed by polymers and amine-cured epoxies outgas ammonia. Formation of cracks and intermetallic growth in die attachments may lead to formation of voids and delamination, impairing heat transfer from the chip die to the substrate and heatsink and causing a thermal failure. As some semiconductors like silicon and gallium arsenide are infrared-transparent, infrared microscopy can check the integrity of die bonding and under-die structures.\n\nRed phosphorus, used as a charring-promoter flame retardant, facilitates silver migration when present in packaging. It is normally coated with aluminium hydroxide; if the coating is incomplete, the phosphorus particles oxidize to the highly hygroscopic phosphorus pentoxide, which reacts with moisture to phosphoric acid. This is a corrosive electrolyte that in the presence of electric fields facilitates dissolution and migration of silver, short-circuiting adjacent packaging pins, lead frame leads, tie bars, chip mount structures, and chip pads. The silver bridge may be interrupted by thermal expansion of the package; thus, disappearance of the shorting when the chip is heated and its reappearance after cooling is an indication of this problem. Delamination and thermal expansion may move the chip die relative to the packaging, deforming and possibly shorting or cracking the bonding wires.\n\nSoldered joints can fail in many ways like electromigration and formation of brittle intermetallic layers. Some failures show only at extreme joint temperatures, hindering troubleshooting. Thermal expansion mismatch between the printed circuit board material and its packaging strains the part-to-board bonds; while leaded parts can absorb the strain by bending, leadless parts rely on the solder to absorb stresses. Thermal cycling may lead to fatigue cracking of the solder joints, especially with elastic solders; various approaches are used to mitigate such incidents. Loose particles, like bonding wire and weld flash, can form in the device cavity and migrate inside the packaging, causing often intermittent and shock-sensitive shorts. Corrosion may cause buildup of oxides and other nonconductive products on the contact surfaces. When closed, these then show unacceptably high resistance; they may also migrate and cause shorts. Tin whiskers can form on tin-coated metals like the internal side of the packagings; loose whiskers then can cause intermittent short circuits inside the packaging. Cables, in addition to the methods described above, may fail by fraying and fire damage.\n\nPrinted circuit boards (PCBs) are vulnerable to environmental influences; for example, the traces are corrosion-prone and may be improperly etched leaving partial shorts, while the vias may be insufficiently plated through or filled with solder. The traces may crack under mechanical loads, often resulting in unreliable PCB operation. Residues of solder flux may facilitate corrosion; those of other materials on PCBs can cause electrical leaks. Polar covalent compounds can attract moisture like antistatic agents, forming a thin layer of conductive moisture between the traces; ionic compounds like chlorides tend to facilitate corrosion. Alkali metal ions may migrate through plastic packaging and influence the functioning of semiconductors. Chlorinated hydrocarbon residues may hydrolyze and release corrosive chlorides; these are problems that occur after years. Polar molecules may dissipate high-frequency energy, causing parasitic dielectric losses.\n\nAbove the glass transition temperature of PCBs, the resin matrix softens and becomes susceptible contaminant diffusion. For example, polyglycols from the solder flux can enter the board and increase its humidity intake, with corresponding deterioration of dielectric and corrosion properties. Multilayer substrates using ceramics suffer from many of the same problems.\n\nConductive anodic filaments (CAFs) may grow within the boards along the fibers of the composite material. Metal is introduced to a vulnerable surface typically from plating the vias, then migrates in presence of ions, moisture, and electrical potential; drilling damage and poor glass-resin bonding promotes such failures. The formation of CAFs usually begins by poor glass-resin bonding; a layer of adsorbed moisture then provides a channel through which ions and corrosion products migrate. In presence of chloride ions, the precipitated material is atacamite; its semiconductive properties lead to increased current leakage, deteriorated dielectric strength, and short circuits between traces. Absorbed glycols from flux residues aggravate the problem. The difference in thermal expansion of the fibers and the matrix weakens the bond when the board is soldered; the lead-free solders which require higher soldering temperatures increase the occurrence of CAFs. Besides this, CAFs depend on absorbed humidity; below a certain threshold, they do not occur. Delamination may occur to separate the board layers, cracking the vias and conductors to introduce pathways for corrosive contaminants and migration of conductive species.\n\nEvery time the contacts of an electromechanical relay or contactor are opened or closed, there is a certain amount of contact wear. An electric arc occurs between the contact points (electrodes) both during the transition from closed to open (break) or from open to closed (make). The arc caused during the contact break (break arc) is akin to arc welding, as the break arc is typically more energetic and more destructive.\n\nThe heat and current of the electrical arc across the contacts creates specific cone & crater formations from metal migration. In addition to the physical contact damage, there appears also a coating of carbon and other matter. This degradation drastically limits the overall operating life of a relay or contactor to a range of perhaps 100,000 operations, a level representing 1% or less than the mechanical life expectancy of the same device.\n\nMany failures result in generation of hot electrons. These are observable under an optical microscope, as they generate near-infrared photons detectable by a CCD camera. Latchups can be observed this way. If visible, the location of failure may present clues to the nature of the overstress. Liquid crystal coatings can be used for localization of faults: cholesteric liquid crystals are thermochromic and are used for visualisation of locations of heat production on the chips, while nematic liquid crystals respond to voltage and are used for visualising current leaks through oxide defects and of charge states on the chip surface (particularly logical states). Laser marking of plastic-encapsulated packages may damage the chip if glass spheres in the packaging line up and direct the laser to the chip.\n\nExamples of semiconductor failures relating to semiconductor crystals include:\n\nVias are a common source of unwanted serial resistance on chips; defective vias show unacceptably high resistance and therefore increase propagation delays. As their resistivity drops with increasing temperature, degradation of the maximum operating frequency of the chip the other way is an indicator of such a fault. \"Mousebites\" are regions where metallization has a decreased width; such defects usually do not show during electrical testing but present a major reliability risk. Increased current density in the mousebite can aggravate electromigration problems; a large degree of voiding is needed to create a temperature-sensitive propagation delay.\n\nSometimes, circuit tolerances can make erratic behaviour difficult to trace; for example, a weak driver transistor, a higher series resistance and the capacitance of the gate of the subsequent transistor may be within tolerance but can significantly increase signal propagation delay. These can manifest only at specific environmental conditions, high clock speeds, low power supply voltages, and sometimes specific circuit signal states; significant variations can occur on a single die. Overstress-induced damage like ohmic shunts or a reduced transistor output current can increase such delays, leading to erratic behavior. As propagation delays depend heavily on supply voltage, tolerance-bound fluctuations of the latter can trigger such behavior.\n\nGallium arsenide monolithic microwave integrated circuits can have these failures:\n\nMetallisation failures are more common and serious causes of FET transistor degradation than material processes; amorphous materials have no grain boundaries, hindering interdiffusion and corrosion. Examples of such failures include:\n\nMost stress-related semiconductor failures are electrothermal in nature microscopically; locally increased temperatures can lead to immediate failure by melting or vaporising metallisation layers, melting the semiconductor or by changing structures. Diffusion and electromigration tend to be accelerated by high temperatures, shortening the lifetime of the device; damage to junctions not leading to immediate failure may manifest as altered current-voltage characteristics of the junctions. Electrical overstress failures can be classified as thermally-induced, electromigration-related and electric field-related failures; examples of such failures include:\n\nElectrostatic discharge (ESD) is a subclass of electrical overstress and may cause immediate device failure, permanent parameter shifts and latent damage causing increased degradation rate. It has at least one of three components, localized heat generation, high current density and high electric field gradient; prolonged presence of currents of several amperes transfer energy to the device structure to cause damage. ESD in real circuits causes a damped wave with rapidly alternating polarity, the junctions stressed in the same manner; it has four basic mechanisms:\n\nCatastrophic ESD failure modes include:\n\nA parametric failure only shifts the device parameters and may manifest in stress testing; sometimes, the degree of damage can lower over time. Latent ESD failure modes occur in a delayed fashion and include:\n\nCatastrophic failures require the highest discharge voltages, are the easiest to test for and are rarest to occur. Parametric failures occur at intermediate discharge voltages and occur more often, with latent failures the most common. For each parametric failure, there are 4–10 latent ones. Modern VLSI circuits are more ESD-sensitive, with smaller features, lower capacitance and higher voltage-to-charge ratio. Silicon deposition of the conductive layers makes them more conductive, reducing the ballast resistance that has a protective role.\n\nThe gate oxide of some MOSFETs can be damaged by 50 volts of potential, the gate isolated from the junction and potential accumulating on it causing extreme stress on the thin dielectric layer; stressed oxide can shatter and fail immediately. The gate oxide itself does not fail immediately but can be accelerated by stress induced leakage current, the oxide damage leading to a delayed failure after prolonged operation hours; on-chip capacitors using oxide or nitride dielectrics are also vulnerable. Smaller structures are more vulnerable because of their lower capacitance, meaning the same amount of charge carriers charges the capacitor to a higher voltage. All thin layers of dielectrics are vulnerable; hence, chips made by processes employing thicker oxide layers are less vulnerable.\n\nCurrent-induced failures are more common in bipolar junction devices, where Schottky and PN junctions are predominant. The high power of the discharge, above 5 kilowatts for less than a microsecond, can melt and vaporise materials. Thin-film resistors may have their value altered by a discharge path forming across them, or having part of the thin film vaporized; this can be problematic in precision applications where such values are critical.\n\nNewer CMOS output buffers using lightly doped silicide drains are more ESD sensitive; the N-channel driver usually suffers damage in the oxide layer or n+/p well junction. This is caused by current crowding during the snapback of the parasitic NPN transistor. In P/NMOS totem-pole structures, the NMOS transistor is almost always the one damaged. The structure of the junction influences its ESD sensitivity; corners and defects can lead to current crowding, reducing the damage threshold. Forward-biased junctions are less sensitive than reverse-biased ones because the Joule heat of forward-biased junctions is dissipated through a thicker layer of the material, as compared to the narrow depletion region in reverse-biased junction.\n\nResistors can fail open or short, alongside their value changing under environmental conditions and outside performance limits. Examples of resistor failures include:\n\nPotentiometers and trimmers are three-terminal electromechanical parts, containing a resistive path with an adjustable wiper contact. Along with the failure modes for normal resistors, mechanical wear on the wiper and the resistive layer, corrosion, surface contamination, and mechanical deformations may lead to intermittent path-wiper resistance changes, which are a problem with audio amplifiers. Many types are not perfectly sealed, with contaminants and moisture entering the part; an especially common contaminant is the solder flux. Mechanical deformations (like an impaired wiper-path contact) can occur by housing warpage during soldering or mechanical stress during mounting. Excess stress on leads can cause substrate cracking and open failure when the crack penetrates the resistive path.\n\nCapacitors are characterized by their capacitance, parasitic resistance in series and parallel, breakdown voltage and dissipation factor; both parasitic parameters are often frequency- and voltage-dependent. Structurally, capacitors consist of electrodes separated by a dielectric, connecting leads, and housing; deterioration of any of these may cause parameter shifts or failure. Shorted failures and leakage due to increase of parallel parasitic resistance are the most common failure modes of capacitors, followed by open failures. Some examples of capacitor failures include:\n\nIn addition to the problems listed above, electrolytic capacitors suffer from these failures:\n\nMetal oxide varistors typically have lower resistance as they heat up; if connected directly across a power bus, for protection against electrical transients, a varistor with a lowered trigger voltage can slide into catastrophic thermal runaway and sometimes a small explosion or fire. To prevent this, the fault current is typically limited by a thermal fuse, circuit breaker, or other current limiting device.\n\nMicroelectromechanical systems suffer from various types of failures:\n\nIn order to reduce failures, a precise knowledge of bond strength quality measurement during product design and subsequent manufacture is of vital importance. The best place to start is with the failure mode. This is based on the assumption that there is a particular failure mode, or range of modes, that may occur within a product. It is therefore reasonable to assume that the bond test should replicate the mode, or modes of interest. However, exact replication is not always possible. The test load must be applied to some part of the sample and transferred through the sample to the bond. If this part of the sample is the only option and is weaker than the bond itself, the sample will fail before the bond.\n\n"}
{"id": "26444420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26444420", "title": "Gaian Variations", "text": "Gaian Variations\n\nGaian Variations is an environmental oratorio by classical composer Nathan Currier, an abruptly terminated premiere of which took place at Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, New York on April 21, 2004. \n\nThe work is about the Gaia hypothesis of James Lovelock. Currier spent several years writing the large work; he felt that the urgency of climate change made raising awareness of Gaia theory important, and since the failed premiere has given talks on climate change for Al Gore’s The Climate Project. When two institutions involved in the premiere, the Brooklyn Philharmonic and Earth Day Network, failed to raise the funds needed, Currier used personal funds to prevent its cancellation. \n\nDuring the premiere, the Brooklyn Philharmonic orchestra suddenly stopped in the midst of the performance. The orchestra claimed it was headed into overtime, although Currier has disputed that in a lawsuit filed over the event. Allan Kozinn, at the time music critic for the \"New York Times\" said that the composer “seemed unable to end the work,” claimed that the texts were “pseudoscientific,” and harshly criticized the composition. Prominent American composer John Corigliano, also a board member of the Brooklyn Philharmonic, said on the other hand that Gaian Variations was “Just beautiful. Very, very skilled work, and very inspired too.” Currier was given a pro bono lawyer through Volunteer Lawyers for the Arts shortly after the performance. The Executive Vice President and Director of the Hess Oil Company, J. Barclay Collins II, also a client of the same firm and Chairman of the Board of the Brooklyn Philharmonic, complained to the law firm, and Currier lost legal representation. On the \"New York Times\" Arts Beat Blog, Collins (who retired in January 2010 from the multi-billion dollar company) was also quoted as saying that Currier’s lawsuit was \"totally without merit.\" Starting in 2008 Currier was represented by Alex T. Roshuk, and the case was filed against the orchestra in Supreme Court of the State of New York, Kings County, in 2009. \n\nAn archival website about Gaian Variations and its premiere, gaianvariations.com, still exists. in the book \"Back to Darwin: A Richer Account of Evolution\", by John B. Cobb (Eerdmans, 2008), Currier's Gaian Variations was discussed. In noting how a Gaia-oriented view might be beginning to spread around the world, Cobb wrote that, “The very existence of the new oratorio by Nathan Currier supports my hope.”\n\n"}
{"id": "11450984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11450984", "title": "Garden festival", "text": "Garden festival\n\nA garden / flora festival or exposition is a festival and exposition held to celebrate the arts of gardening, garden design, landscaping and landscape architecture. There are local garden festivals, regional garden festivals, National Garden Festivals and International Garden Festivals. The idea probably originated with Germany's Bundesgartenschau. The UK held five garden festivals in the period 1984-92 but blundered through not planning an after-use for the festival grounds during their design and planning phase.\n\nTo qualify as an International Exhibition, an Expo must be recognised by the Bureau International des Expositions (BIE), which was established by a diplomatic international Convention, signed in Paris, in 1928. Horticultural Expos can also be recognised by the International Association of Horticultural Producers (IAHP / AIPH). To qualify as a National Exhibition, a garden festival must be recognised by a national government.\n\nBecause garden design is becoming more popular and featuring on TV, there is an ever-growing number of garden festivals: permanent and temporary, official and non-official. One of the best known is International Garden Festival held on a permanent site at Chaumont in France. Despite the name, Chaumont does not come within the BIE definition of an 'international' festival. Other shows feature garden design but describe themselves as 'flower shows'. The best-known example in this category, the Chelsea Flower Show, emphasises garden design. It spun off a Chelsea Fringe events in 2012 which featured a variety of unusual gardens and gardening across London.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2414441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2414441", "title": "Green Gathering", "text": "Green Gathering\n\nThe Green Gathering, formerly known as the Big Green Gathering is an award winning festival with an environmental and social justice focus, including workshops and talks on permaculture, politics, ecology and crafts, as well as art, live music and spoken word performances. The first Big Green Gathering was held in 1994 and the festival is currently held in Chepstow, Monmouthshire although it has previously been held in various locations in Somerset and Wiltshire, England.\n\nThe event grew from the Green Fields area of the Glastonbury Festival.\nAnd in their turn, the Green Fields at Glastonbury Festival had evolved from an earlier series of Green Gatherings held from the late 1970s until 1983 at two Somerset venues, some being formally associated with the Ecology Party, as the UK Green Party was then named.\n\nThe first Big Green Gathering was held in 1994 at Watchfield, north east of Swindon. In 1995, the event moved to a site at Lower Pertwood Farm, about 10 miles (16 km) south of Warminster, in Wiltshire, and the event was repeated at that site in 1996, 1997, 1998 and 2000. The next Green Gathering took place in 2002 at Winchester Farm on the Somerset Levels in Cheddar. In 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2007 the BGG was held at Fernhill Farm, a 160-acre (65 hectare) site which can hold up to 20,000 visitors, in the Mendip Hills. No festival was held in 2008 due to financial problems.\n\nIn 2009 the festival was scheduled to return to Fernhill Farm, 29 July to 2 August. Mendip council granted a licence at the end of June. According to The Guardian: \"On 23 July, the organisers were suddenly confronted with a list of demands that they believed they had already met\". Two days before it was due to open, the organisers surrendered their licence to hold the event, following the threat of injunction proceedings in the High Court by Mendip District Council, supported by Avon and Somerset Police. The Guardian stated: \"Festival directors accused the police of taking a politically motivated decision to shut down the festival...\" and quoted the police as saying \"The organisers voluntarily surrendered their licence... therefore it was their decision to cancel, not ours.\" The Guardian article further stated \"The Big Green Gathering ... has been running in its present form since 1994 without complaints about public safety or crime\". Organisers were able to arrange ticket swaps but not refunds for all ticket holders.\n\nThe event re-launched as 'The Green Gathering' in 2011 at Piercefield Park, near Chepstow in the Wye Valley where it has run annually since.\n\nAt the UK Festival Awards 2017, The Green Gathering was presented with the top UK accolade for green events – The Greener Festival Award, for outstanding commitment to reducing its environmental impact and creating positive social impact. http://www.agreenerfestival.com/2017/12/green-gathering-wins-the-uk-greener-festival-award-2017/\n\nThe Green Gathering is described by its organisers as being \"A festival beyond hedonism - a place to party, then wake up the next morning and put the world to rights with your new mates from the night before.\"\n\nIn 2015, an eFestivals Review described The Green Gathering as \"An inspiring modern festival with a refreshing old school edge\".\n\nMany environmental and social justice groups such as Greenpeace, Green and Black Cross (GBC was founded in November 2010 to provide legal support for protests against the government’s wave of massive spending cuts.), Refugee Community Kitchen and Reclaim The Power (Reclaim the Power is a UK based direct action network fighting for social, environmental and economic justice.) have a presence at the festival. The Gathering has pioneered renewable energy with every Gathering being powered by wind, sun and people.\n\nBetween 2011 and 2015, Green MEP and economist Molly Scott Cato, Baronness Jenny Jones, Green Party leader Natalie Bennett and Green MP Caroline Lucas shared the bill in the festival's Speakers' Forum with radical activist Ewa Jasiewicz, Guardian journalist Rob Evans, Radical Routes co-operators, anti-GM campaigner Hector Christie and Simon Fairlie, editor of The Land magazine - amongst many others.\n\nOn the festival site there are several distinct areas including:\n\n\nAlthough The Green Gathering is not primarily a music festival, live music is performed across several small stages and venues. Past performers have included 3 Daft Monkeys, Banco de Gaia, Nik Turner, Martha Tilston, Radical Dance Faction, Seize The Day and Transglobal Underground.\n\n"}
{"id": "3099857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3099857", "title": "Hubert Schiffer", "text": "Hubert Schiffer\n\nFather Hubert F. Schiffer, S.J. (1915 in Gütersloh – March 27, 1982 in Frankfurt, West Germany) was a German Jesuit who survived the atomic bomb \"Little Boy\" dropped on Hiroshima.\n\nSchiffer was one of several Jesuit priests who were at their mission compound, less than from ground zero when the explosion occurred.\n\nMany retellings of the event state there were eight Jesuit priests (or missionaries), who were eight blocks from ground zero. John Hersey, in his contemporary 1946 account \"Hiroshima\", lists four Jesuit priests (Father Superior LaSalle [sic], Father Wilhelm Kleinsorge, Father Cieslik, and Father Schiffer) and places them \"from the center.\" Schiffer himself states there were four Jesuit priests — \"Father Hugo Lassalle, Superior of the whole Jesuit Mission in Japan, and Fathers Kleinsorge, Cieslik, and Schiffer\" — and describes his own location as \"within the most deadly one-mile radius.\" Schiffer also notes the name of their church — \"the Jesuit Church of Our Lady's Assumption.\"\n\nAccording to the 1946 account of Jesuit priest Father John Siemes, who had been on the outskirts of the city:\nSchiffer's own account describes the explosion:\nAll four Jesuit priests survived the explosion. Quoted in 1950, Schiffer said, \"Of 14 clergy and laymen we lost only one, a Japanese.\" The Jesuits were in a building stronger than most surrounding buildings, as noted by Hersey and Siemes, respectively:\nThey were not the only survivors close to ground zero; an estimated 14% of people within of ground zero survived the explosion. Other survivors included ten people in a streetcar from ground zero, and a woman in a bank away from the blast. One person survived at a distance of just , protected in the basement of a building while looking for documents.\n\nThe survival of the priests has sometimes been referred to as a miracle. In 1951, Schiffer said:\n\nSimilarities with Nagasaki are sometimes highlighted, where a Franciscan friary established by St. Maximilian Kolbe was \"unaffected by the bomb which fell there\", as \"the friary was protected from the force of the bomb by an intervening mountain\".\n\nSchiffer met both the pilot and co-pilot of the B-29 that bombed Hiroshima, the \"Enola Gay\". In New York City in 1951, Schiffer met co-pilot Robert A. Lewis. Schiffer invited Lewis to visit Hiroshima in August 1952 for the dedication of a \"palace of prayer\", which Lewis accepted; however, there is no record of Lewis actually making such a visit. The two also appeared together at Fordham University in 1957, on the twelfth anniversary of the bombing, with Schiffer noting that they had become \"very fast friends.\" Schiffer later met pilot Paul Tibbets in Dallas in 1975.\n\nSchiffer, who had received a bachelor's degree in Japan, received a master's degree from Fordham University in 1952, and a doctorate there in 1958. In the 1960s, Schiffer worked as an associate professor of economics at St. Joseph's College in Philadelphia, and wrote a book on the Japanese banking system.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18569919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18569919", "title": "Hudson Valley Shakespeare Festival", "text": "Hudson Valley Shakespeare Festival\n\nThe Hudson Valley Shakespeare Festival (HVSF) is a non-profit professional theater company based at Boscobel in Garrison, New York. The festival runs a roughly twelve-week repertory season each year, operating under a large open-air theater tent. Its productions attract a total audience of about 50,000 from the Hudson Valley, New York City, and 40 US states.\n\nHVSF also performs William Shakespeare's works and live theater throughout the tri-state area by touring. The company has limited runs of its most popular programs through its \"HVSF On The Road\" series and brings student-oriented productions and education programs to about 50,000 elementary, middle, and high school students and teachers each year. HVSF’s arts education programs also include training for early-career theater artists by way of its Conservatory Company, professional development for educators, and free audience engagement offerings before and after performances throughout the summer.\n\nHVSF was founded by Melissa Stern and Terry O’Brien in September 1987 with an outdoor production of \"[[A Midsummer Night's Dream]\" at [[Manitoga]], home of industrial designer [[Russel Wright]], in Garrison, New York. The following year, Boscobel House and Gardens agreed to host HVSF’s mainstage season on the estate’s expansive grounds, and that summer’s production of Shakespeare’s \"[[As You Like It]]\" was performed under a tent overlooking the Hudson River.\n\nIn 1994, the festival added a second show to its season and began hands-on, performance-driven education programs within area schools. In 2004, HVSF began to tour productions to middle and high schools. In 2006, HVSF acquired a custom-designed, open-air theater tent with seating for 540.\n\nThe Hudson Valley Shakespeare Festival was the subject of a one-hour documentary and two hour film of a performance of \"[[Twelfth Night]]\" which premiered on the [[PBS]] affiliate [[WNET]] (Channel 13 in New York City) on September 18, 2008. The program also aired on WLIW (Channel 21 on Long Island).\n\nMore than 500,000 patrons have been served since HVSF's first season in 1987. Terry O’Brien led the theater for 27 years, directing more than 30 productions, and stepped down as Artistic Director in December 2013. After a search for his successor, HVSF’s Board of Directors appointed Davis McCallum as Artistic Director in May 2014.\n\nIn 2016, the festival produced a community-driven production of Thornton Wilder's \"[[Our Town]]\" with a cast of about 40 citizen actors from the Hudson Valley region, directed by John Christian Plummer.\n\nIn 2017, the festival mounted its first new plays: \"[[Pride and Prejudice]]\" by Kate Hamill (adapted from the novel by [[Jane Austen]]), and [[Lauren Gunderson]]'s \"The Book of Will\".\n\nWith its plays performed in an open-air theater tent on the grounds of the Boscobel, the festival is known for its backdrop. The stage, a rough patch of dirt that is on the same level as the first few rows of the audience, recedes into lawns with a view of the [[Hudson River]] and [[West Point, New York|West Point]] in the distance. The company uses the vast open space behind the stage as scenery for the plays. According to [[Ben Brantley]] of \"The New York Times\", \"nature and Shakespeare are the stars\" in this festival.\n\nThe festival was named among The New York Times' \"50 Essential Summer Festivals\" in 2016, was [[Hudson Valley (magazine)|Hudson Valley Magazine]]'s 2016 Editors’ Pick for Best Summer Theater, and was nominated for a Drama League Award for its 2015 production of \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\".\n\nIt produces classic and new works with an economy of style, focusing on script, actors and audience with the Hudson River and [[Hudson Highlands]] as its set and setting. [[The Wall Street Journal]] hails it as, \"The most purely enjoyable summer Shakespeare festival in America,\" while The New York Times comments, \"If anyone wonders about the future of live theater or asks where the audience is, the answer is 'Under that tent.\"\n\nIt is listed as a \"Major Festival\" in the book \"Shakespeare Festivals Around the World\" by Marcus D. Gregio (Editor), 2004.\n\nIn addition to its summer productions, the festival sponsors year-round education programs to about 50,000 students and teachers annually. These programs include in-school residencies and theater arts workshops for students, resource workshops for educators, a fall touring production for students in grades K-5, a spring touring production for students in grades 6-12, its annual Shakespeare Summer Camp for ages 8–16, and the Teachers' Shakespeare Institute. HVSF's Conservatory Company, a performance based training program for 6 - 8 early career actors, offers on- and off-stage opportunities to work alongside the festival's acting company.\n\n\n[[Category:Festivals in New York (state)]]\n[[Category:Recurring events established in 1987]]\n[[Category:Shakespeare festivals]]"}
{"id": "45571757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45571757", "title": "India's Daughter", "text": "India's Daughter\n\nIndia's Daughter is a documentary film directed by Leslee Udwin and is part of the BBC's ongoing Storyville series. The film is based on the 2012 Delhi gang rape and murder of 23-year-old Jyoti Singh who was a physiotherapy student.\n\nThe film was scheduled to be aired on TV channels round the world on March 8, 2015 to coincide with International Women's Day. However, when excerpts of the film, which included an interview with Mukesh Singh, one of the four men convicted of the rape and murder, were broadcast, a court stay order prohibiting the broadcast was obtained by the Indian police. The BBC complied with the request and did not air the film in India. Yet it aired outside of India on 4 March, was uploaded on YouTube, and soon went viral via shares on social media. On 5 March, the Indian government directed YouTube to block the video in India.\n\nThe documentary is based on the Delhi gang rape, an incident that occurred on 16 December 2012 in South Delhi. The victim, Jyoti Singh, watched the film \"Life of Pi\" with a male friend, Awindra Pratap Pandey, after which they boarded a privately run bus to return home. She was assaulted and gang raped on the bus; her friend was also physically assaulted during the incident. Both of them were subsequently thrown from the bus. She received emergency treatment including several surgeries in India and Singapore but died on 29 December 2012 due to the serious nature of the injuries she sustained in the assault.\n\nThe incident received widespread media coverage. It was condemned and triggered widespread public protest and criticism of the Indian government for not providing enough protection to women. International media covered the incident only after persistent public protests.\n\nSix men were arrested, including a 17-year-old juvenile, and accused as perpetrators of the assaults. One detainee was found dead in his prison cell, as a result of a possible suicide, although his relatives alleged that he had been murdered. The four accused men were found guilty and sentenced to death, whilst the juvenile was given 3 years imprisonment, under the Juvenile Justice Act.\n\nThe film is part of the BBC's ongoing Storyville series. It was planned to be broadcast on International Women's Day, 8 March 2015, in India on NDTV 24x7 and in UK on BBC Four. On 1 March 2015, it was revealed that the film-makers had interviewed one of the rapists while he was being held in the Tihar jail. Soon, the news was picked up by Indian media outlets. The Indian government blocked its broadcast in India by obtaining a court order on 4 March 2015. The BBC said it would comply with the order and did not broadcast the film in India. In the UK however, the BBC moved the transmission forward to 4 March and it was shown on that date. The film was also uploaded on YouTube and soon went viral with various shares on social media. On 5 March, the Indian government directed YouTube to block the video in India. YouTube complied with the orders. The film has generated a great deal of controversy in both India and worldwide.\n\nUdwin has said it was the protests in response to the rape that drew her to make this film. \"I was absolutely awestruck by the ordinary men and women of India who poured out onto the streets in response to this horrific gang rape and who demanded change for women's rights. And I thought the least I could do was amplify their voices.\"\n\nOne of the convicted rapists serving life imprisonment, Mukesh Singh, was interviewed for the documentary. He said in the interview \"When being raped, she shouldn’t fight back. She should just be silent and allow the rape. Then they’d have dropped her off after ‘doing her’, and only hit the boy.\" He later added, \"A girl is far more responsible for rape than a boy … A decent girl won’t roam around at nine o’clock at night … Housework and housekeeping is for girls, not roaming in discos and bars at night doing indecent things, wearing indecent clothes.\" A report by the Navbharat Times has suggested that Mukesh Singh was paid (about ) to do the interview. According to the report, initially he had asked for , but the amount was negotiated down and the sum was given to his family. However, the filmmakers deny that he was paid for the interview.\n\nA. P. Singh, a defence lawyer in the case, was shown saying, “If my daughter or sister engaged in pre-marital activities and disgraced herself and allowed herself to lose face and character by doing such things, I would most certainly take this sort of sister or daughter to my farmhouse, and in front of my entire family, I would put petrol on her and set her alight.” Asked later if he stood by those comments, he insisted that he did.\n\n\"India's Daughter\" was given a U.S. theatrical release on October 23, 2015.\n\nThe film received a 2015 Peabody Award as well as positive reviews in the British press, from Sonia Faleiro in \"The Guardian\" and Yasmin Alibhai-Brown in \"The Independent\".\n\nSome activists have criticised the film. Feminist campaigner Kavita Krishnan, who appears in the film, praised aspects of the film but stated that the film's title reinforces patriarchal attitudes that Indian women are expected to \"behave themselves\". She says that the film is part of a wider \"white saviour\" mentality. She also said the film failed to profile Indian men who are \"on the side of law and order and morality\"\n\nMeryl Streep and Freida Pinto, actresses and ambassadors of \"Because I Am a Girl\", expressed their support to the director and film. On 9 March, the documentary film screened during an event at Baruch College, New York City, which was attended by Meryl Streep, Chris Martin, Dakota Fanning and Freida Pinto.\n\nThe U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon's spokesman Stéphane Dujarric stated on 5 March, \"I'm not going to comment on the unspeakable comments that were made by the person accused of raping this girl, but I think the secretary-general has spoken very clearly on the need to halt violence against women and on the need for men to get involved in halting violence against women and decrying it loud and clear every time it occurs.\"\n\nIn an interview on 5 March 2015, the parents of the victim said that everybody should watch the documentary. Bollywood figures including Anushka Sharma, Abhishek Kapoor, Sonal Chauhan, Twinkle Khanna and Punit Malhotra condemned the ban on the same day.\n\nMeenakshi Lekhi, a Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson, alleged that in screening the documentary on BBC 4, a channel dedicated to international arts, music and cultural content, that the makers didn't stick to the stated objective of a \"social purpose\" and were instead trying to benefit commercially by creating controversies.\n\nAvanindra Pandey, the friend of the victim who was injured in the attack, said, \"The facts are hidden and the content is fake. Only Jyoti and I know what happened on that night and the documentary is far from truth.\"\n\n\"India's Daughter\" won the \"Best Documentary\" award at the San Diego Film Festival in 2015.\n\nOn 1 March 2015, the film-makers revealed that they had interviewed one of the rapists, when he was being held in the Tihar jail. The news was picked up by Indian media outlets soon afterwards. The statements made by the convict created public outcry and screening issues in India.\n\nThe Delhi Police filed a First Information Report (FIR) on 3 March against the filmmakers under Sections 505 (Statements conducing to public mischief), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 505(1)(b) (With intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public), 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (Punishment for sending offensive messages through communication service). The Deputy Commissioner of Police (Economic Offences Wing) of New Delhi, Rajneesh Garg said, \"These excerpts of the interview as published are highly offensive and have already created a situation of tension and fear among women in society. Therefore, in the interest of justice and maintenance of public order, an application was made in court seeking restraining order from publishing, transmitting, uploading and broadcasting the interview.\"\n\nThe Indian government blocked the broadcast in India by obtaining a court order on 4 March 2015. BBC sources said they would comply with the order in India. In the United Kingdom, however, the BBC broadcast the film on the evening of 4 March. The film was also uploaded to YouTube, and soon went viral with several shares on the social media. On 5 March, the Indian government requested that YouTube block the video in India and YouTube complied the same day. NDTV expressed its silent protest by screening flickering lamp on a black screen during the scheduled time slot.\n\nOn 4 March in the Indian Parliament, Home Minister Rajnath Singh said, \"Our government condemns the incident of December 16, 2012 in the strongest possible terms and will not allow any attempt by any individual, group or organisation to leverage such unfortunate incidents for commercial benefit. The respect and dignity of women, constitutes a core value of our culture and tradition. Our government remains fully committed to ensuring safety and dignity of women.\" The Minister of Parliamentary Affairs M. Venkaiah Naidu said in the same debate in the Parliament, \"We can ban the documentary in India but there is a conspiracy to defame India and the documentary can be telecast outside. We will also be examining what should be done.\" Rajya Sabha member Javed Akhtar said, \"It's good that this documentary has been made. Crores of men in India have now come to know that they think like a rapist. If it is sounding dirty, they have to think.\" (A crore is equal to ten million.)\n\nThe film's director, Leslee Udwin, appealed to the Indian Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, to lift the ban in India on 4 March 2015.\n\nOn 5 March, Tihar Jail authorities sent a legal notice to the filmmakers. They claimed that the filmmakers had violated the conditions under which they were given permission to film inside the prison. They claimed they had been screened a shorter version of the documentary and also said that they asked the producers to delete the interview with the convict. Udwin denied this saying that she had submitted 16 hours of “raw, unedited footage”, but the review committee told her after watching three hours of it, “We can’t sit through all this, it’s too long.” She said that she then submitted an edited version that was cleared. On 5 March Udwin left India, presumably to avoid legal action.\n\nOn 6 March the Bar Council of India sent a show cause notice to the two lawyers, M. L. Sharma and A. P. Singh, who had made misogynistic statements in the documentary.\n\nOn 7 March Najma Heptullah, the Minority Affairs Minister, blamed the previous UPA government for allowing the film to be made. She said she fully supports Home Minister Rajnath Singh's stance on the subject.\n\nOn 8 March Siddaramaiah, the Chief Minister of Karnataka, criticised the BBC for giving priority to the film. Michael Steiner, German Ambassador to India, urged the necessity of broadcasting it. An email posted on Quora, which showed a German professor of Leipzig University rejecting an Indian male student's internship because of the \"rape problem in India\", went viral. The professor later apologised to the student. The German Ambassador to India, Michael Steiner tried to contain damage and criticised the professor in an open letter. Leipzig University released a statement saying that the internship was rejected due to lack of vacancies and the professor's statements were taken out of context.\n\nA Public Interest Litigation was filed in the Delhi High Court to lift the stay order on the broadcast of the documentary. The petitioners claimed the ban violated freedom of expression under Article 19 of the Indian Constitution. On 12 March 2015, the Court said the ban cannot be lifted as the appeals of the convicts are under trial in the Supreme Court of India. However, it forwarded the case to the bench of the Chief Justice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "891406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=891406", "title": "Indianola, Texas", "text": "Indianola, Texas\n\nIndianola is a ghost town located on Matagorda Bay in Calhoun County, Texas, United States. The community, once the county seat of Calhoun County, is a part of the Victoria, Texas, Metropolitan Statistical Area. In 1875, the city had a population of 5,000, but on September 15 of that year, a powerful hurricane struck, killing between 150 and 300 and almost entirely destroying the town. Indianola was rebuilt, only to be wiped out on August 19, 1886, by another intense hurricane, which was followed by a fire. Indianola was designated a Recorded Texas Historic Landmark in 1963, marker number 2642.\n\nPrince Carl of Solms-Braunfels, representing the Adelsverein, selected Indian Point in December, 1844 as port of entry for the Verein colonists from Germany. Prince Solms renamed the port Carlshafen in honor of himself, Count Carl of Castell-Castell and Count Victor August of Leiningen-Westerburg-Alt-Leiningen whom Solms claimed had been christened Carl. Prince Solms' choice of Carlshafen and its inadequate accommodations as a port of entry, as well as the isolated route to New Braunfels, was to keep the Germans from interacting with any Americans. In February 1845 Henry Francis Fisher conspired with Dr. F. Schubbert to coerce incoming immigrants to sign legal documents disassociating themselves from the Verein and to join Schubbert's colony in Milam County.\n\nIn May 1846, Meusebach received a letter from Count Castell informing him 4,304 colonists were on their way to Texas. With no funds and no new settlements, the mass of emigrants were stalled at Carlshafen. Meusebach's requests to the Verein for more money, and his warnings at pending bankruptcy for the Verein, brought no results. As a last resort, Meusebach instructed D.H. Klaener to publish the plight in the German news media. Embarrassed by the publicity, the Verein established an inadequate $60,000 letter of credit. Meusebach had arranged with the Torrey Brothers for transporting the emigrants inland, but the United States hired the Torrey Brothers for use in the Mexican–American War. An epidemic of spinal meningitis broke out at Carlshafen and spread with the emigrants to New Braunfels and Fredericksburg.\n\nSamuel Addition White and William M. Cook founded Indian Point, later Indianola, in August, 1846.\n\nSome of these immigrants purchased land from Samuel White and established a settlement at Indian Point. The name of the settlement changed to Indianola in 1849 by combining the word \"Indian\" with \"ola\", the Spanish word for \"wave\". The German immigrants continued to refer to the community as \"Carlshaven\" (Carl's Harbor) in honor of Prince Carl of Solms-Braunfels.\n\nFrom its founding in 1846, Indianola served as a major port, and before the 1875 storm was second only to Galveston as Texas's primary port. The town incorporated in 1853. In 1856, the port received cargoes of camels, part of the US Army Camel Corps experiment to replace horses and mules as the primary pack animal in the southwestern parts of the country.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, Indianola was twice occupied by Union troops, in October 1862 and November 1863. During the second occupation, part of a Union infantry regiment moving from Indianola to Matagorda Island drowned in Matagorda Bay.\n\nIn 1869, the world's first mechanically-refrigerated shipment of beef left Indianola for New Orleans.\n\nDuring World War II, the U.S. Army constructed an anti-aircraft firing range along the Indianola shoreline to train gunners and the facility was used primarily by military personnel from Camp Hulen, located outside of Palacios.\n\nHaving survived severe storms before, Indianola was almost totally destroyed on 16 September 1875. \"The New York Times\" reported in detail on the extensive loss of life and property. Even the lighthouses were swept away and the keepers, including Thomas H. Mayne and Edward Flick Jr. of the East Shoal Lighthouse, killed.\n\nThe town was rebuilt but events were repeated in 1886. The destruction served as an abject lesson for many residents of Galveston, 100 miles up the Texas coast. However, their calls for a seawall to protect that city went unheeded, and Galveston nearly shared Indianola's fate when the Galveston Hurricane of 1900 struck the island.\n\nA railroad was intended to connect the port of Indianola to San Antonio. After the two storms, discouraged investors abandoned the venture and made Galveston the port of choice. After Galveston's hurricane, shipping traffic recentered over time to inland Houston.\n\nAfter the 1886 storm, the county seat was moved to Port Lavaca. On October 4, 1887, the post office in Indianola was permanently closed and the town declared \"dead\". Today, almost nothing remains of the original Indianola, as, due to storm erosion, most of the site of the city is now under water. A granite marker was placed on the shore at the nearest point to the Indianola courthouse, now 300 feet (about 90 meters) away in Matagorda Bay. It reads, \"Calhoun County Courthouse. Edward Beaumont, Architect 1859. During the Storms of 1875 and 1886, precious lives were saved within its walls of shell, concrete, and lime. Abandoned 1886.\" The site is also home to a statue of René-Robert Cavelier, Sieur de La Salle.\n\nIndianola is now the site of a small unincorporated fishing village.\n\nIn Elizabeth Hand's novel \"Aestival Tide\", a reconstructed Indianola is featured as the lowermost level of the central ziggurat in the dome city of Araboth.\n\nIn the novel \"Matagorda\" by author Louis L'Amour, much of the action took place in Indianola, Texas on the day it was destroyed by the 1875 hurricane. The courthouse, the site of which is now underwater out in the bay, was featured as the last refuge of the townspeople.\n\nIn Part I of \"Isaac's Storm\", in the chapter \"Galveston: An Absurd Delusion\" (pages 79–84), Erik Larson describes the two storms that ravaged Indianola and the significance of these storms for Galveston, Texas, leading up to the Galveston storm of 1900. He notes: \"At first, Galveston's leading men seemed to grasp the significance of the Indianola storms. Anyone who looked at a map could see that Galveston was even more vulnerable to destruction than Indianola. It had no picket of barrier islands to shelter it, no buffer of mainland prairie. The city faced the Gulf head-on.\" He further observes: \"Six weeks after the second Indianola storm, a group of thirty prominent Galveston residents calling themselves the Progressive Association met and resolved to build a seawall\", and \"The city's \"Evening Tribune\" endorsed the plan\". However, although \"The state eventually did authorize a bond to pay for the work,\" the city's engineer E.M. Hartwick observed, \"this was some months after the flood, and by then the attitude was, Oh, we'll never get another one--and they didn't build.\"\n\nLarson criticizes meteorologist Isaac Cline (among others) for this failure. For example, Larson cites statements Cline published in the July 1891 Galveston \"News\" article, \"West India Hurricanes\":\n\nFurther, in Part III of \"Isaac's Storm\", in a chapter titled \"Ritter's Cafe: \"You Can't Frighten Me\"\", Larson publishes the recollections of Mollie Cohen, whose impressions of the Galveston Storm of 1900 reminded her of the second Indianola hurricane: \n\nSinger/songwriter, Charlie Robison, included a song titled \"Indianola\" on the 1998 album \"Life of the Party\" that is a specific reference to Indianola, Texas. The song begins from the perspective of a German immigrant approaching Indianola by sea and chronicling details of the narrator's family. The narrator and his cousin attempt to traverse the South to join the Union Army in the American Civil War, though they encounter Rebel resistance in Indianola, TX. The next scene of the folk song briefly addresses the stock market crash of 1929 in an indirect fashion, noting that little change occurred in their respective lives other than rust's accumulating on wagon wheels. While this verse is brief in regards to words and time, it denotes a subtle and increasing disaffection in the American/Texan experience, adversely affected by seemingly non-relevant incidences. The storyline then progresses to World War II, introducing an internal struggle between the call of duty of the United States of America and its armed conflict with Germany, the ancestral point of origin of many Americans. The overall sentiment of the song begins as a story of new promises followed by a series of fictional, though personally carved facts, that illustrate a common experience for the individualist. Texas exemplifies a spirit that is not only uniquely a Texan story, but an American one, thrusting the individual against the external influence that would assume its right to assert its own values. This, however, should not be confused with contemporary movements deviating from the spirit of this song.\n\nSinger/songwriter Brian Burns included the song \"Indianola\" on his 2004 album \"Heavy Weather\". The lyrics of the song chronicle the full life cycle of Indianola with verses from the points of view of a personified Matagorda bay, an immigrant who helped build the city (Johann), a worker who came to help \"bury the lost souls who perished that day\" (Isaac), and finally the songwriter himself visiting the site (Brian). It is unclear whether the \"Johann\" mentioned in verse three refers to the Johann Dethardt, the first ship to bring settlers into the area, or Johann Swartz, the owner/builder of the first home erected in what would become Indianola.\n\nWhat is now Indianola is served by the Calhoun County Independent School District.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "515534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=515534", "title": "Injury", "text": "Injury\n\nInjury, also known as physical trauma, is damage to the body caused by external force. This may be caused by accidents, falls, hits, weapons, and other causes. Major trauma is injury that has the potential to cause prolonged disability or death.\n\nIn 2013, 4.8 million people died from injuries, up from 4.3 million in 1990. More than 30% of these deaths were transport-related injuries. In 2013, 367,000 children under the age of five died from injuries, down from 766,000 in 1990. Injuries are the cause of 9% of all deaths, and are the sixth-leading cause of death in the world.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) developed the International Classification of External Causes of Injury (ICECI). Under this system, injuries are classified by:\nand additional modules. These codes allow the identification of distributions of injuries in specific populations and case identification for more detailed research on causes and preventive efforts.\n\nThe United States Bureau of Labor Statistics developed the Occupational Injury and Illness Classification System (OIICS). Under this system injuries are classified by\nThe OIICS was first published in 1992 and has been updated several times since.\n\nThe Orchard Sports Injury Classification System (OSICS) is used to classify injuries to enable research into specific sports injuries.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe injury severity score (ISS) is a medical score to assess trauma severity. It correlates with mortality, morbidity, and hospitalization time after trauma. It is used to define the term \"major trauma\" (polytrauma), recognized when the ISS is greater than 15. The AIS Committee of the Association for the Advancement of Automotive Medicine designed and updates the scale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36268586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36268586", "title": "International Percussion Festival", "text": "International Percussion Festival\n\nThe International Percussion Festival () is an annual festival of percussion instruments in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. The festival takes place on different places around Montreal each July over a period of six days . The festival is a nonprofit organization presenting over 500 local and international musicians, on 4 stages, attracting close to 200,000 spectators annually. The Percussion Festival whas a different theme each year.\n\nThe festival was founded in 2002 by Gilbert Lucu and France Cadieux. The first festival was held in Venise-en-Québec near the United States border, although was moved to Longueuil starting in its second year. In 2015, the festival was at the Old Port of Montreal. In 2016, it will be in Verdun.\n\n"}
{"id": "38696291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38696291", "title": "John Chisholm (soldier)", "text": "John Chisholm (soldier)\n\nJohn Chisholm, 16th-century Scottish soldier and chief officer, Comptroller and \"Prefect\" of the Scottish artillery for Mary, Queen of Scots and James VI of Scotland, and keeper of the King's Wark in Leith. Chisholm was a supporter of Mary, Queen of Scots after her exile in England.\n\nMary, Queen of Scots was eager for Chisholm's arrival as a messenger in Perth in April 1564. As Comptroller of the Royal Artillery for Mary, he received in 1565 the large sum of 10,000 Scottish marks on behalf of the Queen, from the Burgh council of Edinburgh, for the right of superiority of Edinburgh over Leith. The money was used to take the royal artillery to the west of Scotland during the rebellion called the Chaseabout Raid.\n\nJohn Chisholm arranged the firework display for the baptism of her son Prince James at Stirling Castle in December 1566. The preparations were expensive, and John had to send to the Queen twice for extra money. John's account for the event lists his ingredients, including, colophony, orpiment, quicksilver, arrows and dozens of small pottery vessels. The fireworks were made in Leith and shipped to Stirling in great secrecy, being carried to the castle at the dead of night \"for feir of knowledge thairof.\" John also arranged the making of costumes used in a pageant of an assault on a mock castle.\n\nIn April 1567 Mary, Queen of Scots confirmed in Parliament John Chisholm's possession of the King's Wark in Leith, which he had held in \"feu\" since May 1564. There, John was in charge of the long established Shore-side arsenal which served the Royal Scots Navy. The arsenal had been founded by James I of Scotland in 1434. The buildings, which included a tower had been burnt in May 1544 during the war of the Rough Wooing after 80,000 cannonballs were looted by the English army. In 1545 Robert Logan of Restalrig used the tower as a Tolbooth for Leith. Now demolished, the tower was depicted in a drawing by John Slezer in 1693. The site is now a bar and restaurant.\n\nAnne of Denmark arrived in Scotland on 1 May 1590 with James VI, and stayed five nights in the King's Wark. The path from the ship to their throne room in Chisholm's house was strewn with tapestry. The ceremony of the reception at Leith and the King's Wark had been carefully planned the previous September. A special wooden stair was built for her to enter directly into the first-floor hall. There were chairs for Anne and James VI on this \"scaffold\", where they sat in public and listened to a speech of welcome called an oration or \"harangue,\" made by James Elphinstone in French. The directions included the order of entry, seating, and even where people should look. Once Anne was in the King's Wark, the scaffold was taken away, and the people of Leith were ordered to unload any guns and forbidden to mend ships on the Shore until she left.\n\nThe buildings passed to Bernard Lindsay of Lochhill in 1606 by Act of Parliament. Bernard Lindsay, a chamber servant of James VI, was required to reserve a cellar for storing wines for the King's use. He also added a tennis court. As a courtier Lindsay had brought Henry Wotton to James VI at Dunfermline Palace in 1601, when Wotton was masquerading as an Italian \"Octavio Baldi\". In preparation for James's \"salmonlike\" return to Scotland in 1617, cannon wheels and stocks were kept there, and in 1623 the Master of Work, James Murray of Kilbaberton stored cannon and shot from a Dunkirk ship in Bernard Lindsay's Close. It is thought that Bernard Street takes its name from Lindsay of Lochhill. In 1647 the site was acquired by Edinburgh burgh council from William Dick of Braid.\n\nJohn Chisholm was appointed Prefect and \"Second Person\" of the royal artillery of Scotland (S. D. N. Regis Machinarii Bellitarii Prefecti) on 23 August 1569, during the Regency of the James Stewart, Earl of Moray. In 1570, Chisholm joined William Kirkcaldy of Grange in the garrison of Edinburgh Castle that remained loyal to Mary, Queen of Scots. During the following 'Lang Siege' of the Castle and Marian civil war, Chisholm travelled abroad seeking support and supplies. In February 1571 he was in London and wrote about ongoing peace negotiations, hoping that Elizabeth I of England would act to restore Mary to the Scottish throne. He hoped that the frustrating talks would be concluded soon; \"I hoip seurlie within sax ouilkis (six weeks), we salbe at our wittis end and sooner.\"\n\nChisholm visited Mary at Sheffield Castle, and took letters to France in April, borrowing £3 from John Lesley, Bishop of Ross. The Bishop kept a note of Chisholm's movements; he returned to Scotland from Dieppe in June 1571, carrying money sent by the exiled Bishop of Glasgow, cannonballs of four different calibres and pikes. These supplies were obtained from Charles IX of France. Chisholm and his ship were captured at North Queensferry in July by Patrick, Lord Lindsay, but he managed to pass some of the money to Mary's supporters. It was thought he had intended to take Tantallon Castle, linking up with Mary's supporters who unsuccessfully attacked the castle on 2 July 1571.\n\nChisholm was allowed to return to France and joined the Bishop of Glasgow. In March 1573 William Maitland of Lethington thought his adversaries had discovered the key to the cipher code he used in his letters when James Kirkcaldy was captured. He used John Chisholm's code in a letter to the Bishop. Agents of the English Secretary of State, William Cecil, intercepted and easily decoded this letter. John wrote to Mary, Queen of Scots from Paris in August 1575. He asked that he might come to England and serve in her household with his wife, and concluded his letter with his hopes of Mary's \"suddane\" delivery from her troubles.\n\nAfter this period of exile, in July 1576 Chisholm gained an official pardon for his support of Mary and Grange and unauthorized travel abroad. On 31 May 1579 he was re-appointed as \"Comptroller and Second Person of the Artillery and Munition within all parts of Scotland.\" The gift of the King's Wark, \"Opus Regium,\" was confirmed in May 1588, giving his title as; \"Compotorus Rotulatori Tormentorum Bellicorum\" – Controller of the accounting rolls for war machines.\n\nThe French Ambassador Bertrand de Salignac de la Mothe-Fénelon noted that Chisholm was still active as a supporter of Mary in February 1583, and Chisholm asked that Mary should continue paying him a pension. In May 1583 The English diplomat Robert Bowes reported him as a \"notorious instrument\" for Maineville, the agent of the Esmé Stewart, 1st Duke of Lennox who was expelled from Scotland by the Gowrie Regime.\n"}
{"id": "34984208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34984208", "title": "Kony 2012", "text": "Kony 2012\n\nKony 2012 is a short documentary film produced by Invisible Children, Inc. (authors of \"Invisible Children\"). It was released on March 5, 2012. The film's purpose was to promote the charity's \"Stop Kony\" movement to make Ugandan cult and militia leader, indicted war criminal and the International Criminal Court fugitive Joseph Kony globally known in order to have him arrested by the end of 2012, when the campaign expired. \nThe film spread virally and the campaign was initially supported by various celebrities. , the film has received over 101 million views and nearly 1.4 million \"likes\" on the video-sharing website YouTube, and over 18.6 million views and over 21.5 thousand \"likes\" on Vimeo, with other views on a central \"Kony 2012\" website operated by Invisible Children. The intense exposure of the video caused the \"Kony 2012\" website to crash shortly after it began gaining widespread popularity. A poll suggested that more than half of young adult Americans heard about \"Kony 2012\" in the days following the video's release. It was included among the top international events of 2012 by PBS and called the most viral video ever by \"TIME\".\n\nThe campaign resulted in a resolution by the United States Senate and contributed to the decision to send troops by the African Union. The film also called for an April 20 world wide canvassing campaign, called \"Cover the Night\". On April 5, 2012, Invisible Children released a follow-up video, titled \"Kony 2012: Part II – Beyond Famous\", which failed to repeat the success of the original.\n\nThe film documents the Invisible Children's plans and efforts to capture Joseph Kony. It describes Kony's actions with his rebel militia group Lord's Resistance Army (LRA), including forced recruitment of child soldiers, and the regions (northern Uganda, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and South Sudan) in which they have been active. One of the main people featured in the film is a young Ugandan named Jacob Avaye, whose brother was killed by the LRA. In response, director and founder of Invisible Children, Jason Russell, promises Jacob that he will help \"stop Kony\".\n\nThe film advocates the restoration of social order and curtailing compelled and coerced youth military service. The video also has clips of Jason Russell's young son reacting to the information about Kony. Near the end of the film, a 2011 announcement from U.S. President Barack Obama is shown authorizing the deployment of 100 Special Forces military advisers to provide \"information, advice, and assistance to partner nation forces\" of Central African countries to \"remove Joseph Kony from the battlefield\". The video concludes by urging viewers to join its publicity campaign by putting up posters and helping out in their communities.\n\nThe Invisible Children charity has focused on obtaining the support of a select group of individuals in order to \"help bring awareness to the abuse and killing of children in the East and Central African countries at the hands of Kony and his leadership.\" This list included 20 \"celebrity culture makers\", such as George Clooney, Angelina Jolie, Oprah Winfrey (who significantly helped to spread the video), Taylor Swift and Ryan Seacrest. The list also featured 12 \"policy makers\" that have \"the power to keep U.S. government officials in Africa\" in order to work toward the capture of Kony. This list includes former U.S. President George W. Bush and his Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, and former Secretary of State John Kerry.\n\nA number of celebrities endorsed the awareness campaign against Kony, including Justin Bieber, Bill Gates, Christina Milian, Nicki Minaj, Kim Kardashian, Rihanna and Ellen Page.\n\nAs part of the campaign, American supporters were asked to put up posters in their hometowns in an action named \"Cover the Night\", which took place on April 20, 2012. Invisible Children website offers posters and T-shirts in an attempt to gain wider recognition. They also created action kits to help spread awareness that include campaign buttons, posters, bracelets and stickers.\n\nThe \"Cover the Night\" event took place worldwide on April 20, 2012, and was to be conducted by supporters who were encouraged to perform some sort of charity work that morning in their local community. Then, that evening, they were to post flyers and posters throughout their city for the Kony 2012 campaign. The turnout for the event worldwide was much smaller than initially expected, with no organized spots officially announced and much fewer people attending than had pledged to attend. A tweet from Invisible Children stated, \"There is no official meet-up as we are asking people to act locally with friends+family in their neighborhoods.\" One gathering in Vancouver had only 17 people; another in Brisbane had fewer than 50 attendees. In Kelowna, British Columbia, several signs and posters were put up, including two large banners that were \"placed on both sides of the pedestrian overpass\". In Canberra, several Facebook groups resulted in a few gatherings of two or three people each; Pierre Johannessen, a \"law firm partner who runs a charity for disadvantaged children\", distributed around 3,000 posters to the groups to be put up throughout the city. In Phoenix, 200 posters were put up by \"college students and other people in their teens and 20s\", along with a number of chalk and stencil messages. \n\nThe film sparked a heated controversy regarding its merits, with very differing opinions being expressed by various NGO workers, government and international officials, journalists, and other groups and individuals.\n\nAfter the video was released, various social media outlets went into a frenzy and exploded the Kony 2012 movement into the world-wide news. The video, directed by Jason Russell, began to generate a tremendous amount of social media attention. After being the quickest video to reach 100 million views within 6 days, Kony 2012 took over social media with hashtags like #Kony2012. The social media impact was so relevant that, on March 6 and 7, more people were talking about Kony 2012 through Facebook posts than the newly released Apple iPhone. Along with Facebook, nearly 66% of Twitter conversations during March 5 – March 12 were about the Anti-Kony movement. Social media outlets, such as Facebook, were responsible for informing 27% of young adults of the Kony 2012 video, compared to 10% who learned about it through other traditional platforms. Overall, Kony 2012 made a significant impact throughout social media platforms. During that short period of time, it became YouTube's number one video of reaching a certain number of views within a short period of time, along with over 5 million related tweets occurring over just a week.\n\nIn under a week, the video created by Invisible Children, Kony 2012 had been viewed over 100 million times. \"Time\" magazine credits Invisible Children's strong base of followers on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. Unlike other videos that accidentally \"go viral\", Kony 2012 was created to elicit emotional responses and encourage viewers to share the footage and spread the hashtag. This attracted the attention of celebrities like Oprah Winfrey, Rihanna, Bill Gates, Ryan Seacrest, Justin Bieber, and Kim Kardashian-West. Despite the video's popularity, not all interactions were positive. But the more criticism the video drew, the more people watched it and shared it so that they could be a part of the conversation. Their Public Relations team was not ready for the over night fame and failed to control the narrative of the fall out.\n\nForbes gives a breakdown of 12 reasons why the video went so viral. They cite that the video invoked positive feelings, grabbed viewers attention, made it personal, referenced mainstream media, pulled on the heartstrings, conveyed immediacy, made it simple, made it real, gave it a scale, used celebrities, created events, and made it easy to get involved. These 12 basic tactics affected viewers so much so that the Kony 2012 campaign sold out of merchandise when their two interns could not keep up with the hundreds of thousands of action kits supporters could buy. Jason Russel told Business Insider, \"We sourced every single red T-shirt in the entire US. There were no more to buy.\" The google trends for searches like \"Joseph Kony\" and \"Kony 2012\" all show flatlines until the video was released where the spike reaches all the way to 100%. Before Invisible Children released the video, Joseph Kony and the LRA were mostly unknown to America and the rest of the world.\n\nLuis Moreno Ocampo, who was featured in the film and was, at the time, the chief Prosecutor at the International Criminal Court (ICC), voiced his support of the film and the campaign that had \"mobilised the world\", and said that the criticism was \"stupid\". The Special Representative and head of the newly created United Nations Regional Office for Central Africa (UNOCA), Abou Moussa, said that international interest in Kony was \"useful, very important\". The White House released a statement of support through Press Secretary Jay Carney, who stated in a news conference, \"We congratulate the hundreds of thousands of Americans who have mobilized to this unique crisis of conscience\" and said that the raised awareness from the video is \"consistent with the bipartisan legislation passed by our congress in 2010.\" Cameron Hudson, policy director at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and former Africa director in the National Security Council, also praised Invisible Children for reaching \"tens of millions of people who probably never previously heard of Joseph Kony.\" Anthony Lake, the executive director of UNICEF, was cited as saying that a similar viral video would have made a difference during the Rwandan Genocide in 1994, also suggesting that \"this kind of public attention would also have helped save more lives in Darfur and in Congo's warring east.\"\n\nHuman Rights Watch (HRW)'s Africa division senior researcher Anneke Van Woudenberg wrote in a statement: \"We've spent years investigating the horrors perpetrated by the LRA in central Africa—Uganda, Democratic Republic of Congo, Central African Republic (CAR), and South Sudan. We gathered evidence at massacre sites—wooden clubs covered in dried blood, rubber strips from bicycle tires used to tie up the victims, and freshly dug graves—and spoke to hundreds of boys and girls forced to fight for his army or held captive as sex slaves. And we're elated that #stopKony is a trending topic on Twitter—if anyone deserves global notoriety it's Kony.\" She added: \"Arresting Kony and other senior LRA leaders would reaffirm that those who commit mass atrocities will face justice. It will also help end the scourge of one of the most brutal rebel groups in Africa.\" HRW's LRA researcher Ida Sawyer reaffirmed, \"we definitely support the message of the film and we think it's great that they're bringing so much attention to the film with Kony's crimes and the phenomena of the LRA.\" Amnesty International, which had documented what it described as the LRA's \"horrific impact on the lives of thousands of civilians in Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo, South Sudan and Uganda\" and for years had been calling for the LRA leaders to be arrested, welcomed the massive public response to the Kony 2012 campaign. Erwin van der Borght, the organization's Africa director, wrote in a statement: \"Joseph Kony and other LRA leaders have evaded arrest for far too long and this campaign is a salient reminder of the continuing crimes by LRA members and the need to arrest and surrender their leaders to the ICC so they can face trial,\" but added: \"Anyone joining the Kony 2012 campaign should insist that efforts to arrest Joseph Kony must respect human rights\", especially because \"many of LRA members were themselves victims of human rights violations including forcible recruitment\", and ensure the protection of civilians.\n\nOpinions on the film were mixed in Gulu, one of former centers of rebel activities in northern Uganda, during a showing of the film, with several of the leaders expressing support and criticism. One of the attendees, State Minister for Foreign Affairs Henry Oryem Okello, said that the criticisms directed at the film and Invisible Children were \"unfounded\", going on to state, \"Invisible Children has done visible things in Acholi[land], for example offering scholarships to thousands of children and anyone against them is our enemy.\" Betty Bigombe, a Ugandan cabinet minister and former peace negotiator, said, \"I do not know whether it makes any difference as far as taking [Kony] out is concerned. However, what is important is bringing this to the attention of policymakers. I hope that something innovative will come out of it.\" Norbert Mao, Ugandan politician and president of the opposition Democratic Party, stated his support for the film, explaining that while it does have some problems, such as implying Ugandans did not try to fight back against the LRA and not explaining how many of the issues in the film were also exacerbated by the Ugandan government itself, the film is still a \"positive development\" for the issue, adding that while Invisible Children may not be \"the foremost analysts of the complicated political, historical and security dynamics\" in the situation, \"they have the most beautiful trait on earth – compassion.\"\n\nJournalist Nicholas D. Kristof thanked Invisible Children for making the film and addressed its criticism, stating that rather than being \"white man's burden\", when \"a warlord continues to kill and torture across a swath of Congo and Central African Republic ... it's a human burden.\" He also said that complexity had long been \"a leading excuse for inaction during atrocities\" and that Kony remains a threat in Uganda's neighbour countries, so the simplicity of the film \"has left the American public more informed\" than it would be otherwise, and that if he \"were a Congolese villager\", he would \"welcome these uncertain efforts over the sneering scorn of do-nothing armchair cynics.\" Foreign correspondent Roger Cohen called it \"simplifying grossly and distorting adeptly to make a valid point: that no effort should be spared to arrest Kony.\" British film critic Peter Bradshaw wrote that \"Kony 2012\", despite its flaws, \"lands an almighty punch. This is a principled campaign ad, and a very, very effective one.\" Former war correspondent Gotham Chopra said that he understands \"the instinctive backlash (really it's irritation)\" towards the film and the campaign, but \"there is enormous value in the fact that millions of people are talking today about genocide in Africa that were mostly unaware of it yesterday.\" Jane Bussmann, author of a 2009 book about Kony and the President of Uganda Yoweri Museveni, compared the campaign favorably to the \"culture of charity-as-industry\" as \"at least Kony2012 linked suffering to perpetrators, and urged the young American audience it's aimed at to contact a politician.\" Matthew Green, author of a 2008 book about Kony and the LRA conflict, \"The Wizard of the Nile\", wrote that IC had \"achieved more with their 30-minute video than battalions of diplomats, NGO workers and journalists have since the conflict began 26 years ago.\"\n\nJacob Acaye, the former child soldier featured in the film, supported the video and defended its makers. In response to Ugandans saying that the film was out-of-date, Jacob stated that, \"It is not too late, because all this fighting and suffering is still going on elsewhere. Until now, the war that was going on has been a silent war. People did not really know about it. Now what was happening in Gulu is still going on elsewhere in the Central African Republic and in Congo. What about the people who are suffering over there? They are going through what we were going through.\" It was noted by \"Los Angeles Times\" journalists Lindsay Branham and Jocelyn Kelly that a number of people living in the areas where the LRA is currently active have previously called for attention and advocacy to be directed at the issue. Julien Marneffe, a worker for Catholic Relief Services in Goma said \"it's been an undeniable success – and one all humanitarian organizations working in this area can be happy about,\" but added to \"be careful not to oversimplify the issue\" and worried that the interest might be short lived when \"another crisis or another video will be the next online trend, and I fear that most people will forget about the problems of the LRA.\"\n\nSince the video's release, Invisible Children has come under criticism for oversimplification of events in the region and has been accused of engaging in \"slacktivism\", in which one donates or takes actions that have little to no effect beyond making one feel like one contributed. While the campaign promotes global activism, it has been criticized for providing a black-and-white picture rather than encouraging the viewers to learn about the situation. Mikaela Luttrell-Rowland from Clark University's Strassler Center for Holocaust and Genocide Studies stated that it was \"irresponsible to prize feel good, simplistic messages over complex history and to treat consumerist-consciousness raising as interchangeable with education.\" Africa researcher Alex de Waal accused the film of \"peddling dangerous and patronizing falsehoods,\" criticized the campaign as \"naive\" for \"elevating Kony to a global celebrity, the embodiment of evil,\" that might only help him as a terrorist and cult leader, and called for instead \"demystifying Kony—reducing him to a common criminal and a failed provincial politician.\"\n\nOne point of criticism is that the film gives a misleading impression of the whereabouts and magnitude of Kony's remaining LRA forces. As of early 2012, Kony's followers were thought to number only in the hundreds, and Kony himself was believed to be in the Central African Republic rather than Uganda—a fact that receives only a passing mention in the video. This problem raised questions about the plausibility of Ugandan army intervention, which the video advocates. Since Kony and most of the LRA forces are currently not in Uganda, the Ugandan army would need to coordinate with the governments and militaries of the other countries where the LRA is active.\n\nDinaw Mengestu, an Ethiopian American writer and Africa researcher, wrote that the real world Kony is \"not a click away\", and a simple solution of raising popular awareness, \"a beautiful equation that can only work so long as we believe that nothing in the world happens unless we know about it ... only works in the myopic reality of the film, a reality that deliberately eschews depth and complexity.\" \nAmanda Weisbaum of the charity War Child said that \"just getting rid of one person does not solve the problem\" and the film's focus should have been rather on helping ex-child soldiers. Anne Goddard, president and CEO of ChildFund International, wrote that \"by narrowing the focus on Kony, by defining success so singularly, it gives people a greater sense that the issue [of globally widespread conscription of young children] can be resolved. And that hope feeds on itself in a way that becomes infectious.\" United Nations Under-Secretary-General Radhika Coomaraswamy called for the Kony2012 campaign to divert its donation funds from supporting military action to capture Kony to rehabilitation and reintegration programmes for former child soldiers. Victor Ochen, founder and director of Ugandan rehabilitation NGO Ayinet, said that campaign \"to promote [Kony] or make him famous\" is \"offensive\", in part because of the Cover the Night event's date (an anniversary of the Atiak massacre by the LRA in Uganda in 1995 and the date of birth of Adolf Hitler), adding \"How do you think Americans would have reacted if people in another country wore Osama bin Laden T-shirts?\"\n\nAfter the film's release, there was criticism in Uganda of its failure to state more clearly that Kony and his forces fled northern Uganda in 2006 and were dispersed across the jungles of three neighbouring countries. Fred Opolot, spokesman for the Ugandan government, said, \"It is totally misleading to suggest that the war is still in Uganda.\" Arthur Larok, ActionAid's director in Uganda, said, \"It doesn't sound like a fair representation of Uganda. We have challenges within the country, but certainly the perception of a country at war is not accurate at all.\" Dr Beatrice Mpora, director of a community health organization in Gulu, commented, \"There has not been a single soul from the LRA here since 2006. Now we have peace, people are back in their homes, they are planting their fields, they are starting their businesses. That is what people should help us with.\" Prime Minister of Uganda Amama Mbabazi launched an online response on YouTube, in which he seeks to correct the \"false impression\" that Uganda is still at war, and invites everyone to visit the country, assuring that people would find it \"a very different place to that portrayed by Invisible Children\". Meanwhile, dozens of members of Ugandan diaspora in United States protested outside the Invisible Children offices in San Diego, also criticizing the video but saying Kony represents \"only three percent of all the problems\" in their home country and lambasting the Ugandan government for its inadequate response to Kony's terror and other issues.\n\nA March 2012 mass showing of the film in Lira, the site of one of Kony's worst atrocities in Uganda, was met with jeering and thrown objects at the screen and at the group African Youth Initiative Network, which screened the film and provided translations. The screening prompted angry calls to local radio stations by Ugandans upset that the film was so focused on the filmmakers and Kony while neglecting the conflict's victims, prompting complaints that the film was \"more about whites than Ugandans.\" Others objected to being reminded of the horrors Kony brought to Uganda. Despite the negative response, the organization still planned on showing the film in other towns, hoping to avoid this response by providing context for the film. Some Ugandan commentators have also criticized the video for its aim of making Kony \"famous\", even believing it means to \"celebrate\" him, and for its advocacy of foreign military intervention to stop him.\n\nMahmood Mamdani, director of the Institute of Social Research at Makerere University, Kampala, argued that the LRA is \"a Ugandan problem calling for a Ugandan political solution\" and against \"mobilisation of millions [to] be subverted into yet another weapon in the hands of those who want to further militarise the region.\" Ugandan journalist Rosebell Kagumire said that \"the war is much more complex than one man called Joseph Kony.\" A more recent showing of \"Kony 2012\" at Pece War Memorial Stadium in Gulu, Uganda sparked a riot in which dozens of people were injured. The archbishop of Gulu, Rt Rev. John Baptist Odama, was reported as saying that the video \"has ill motives and geared towards igniting anger in the population to cause violence.\" Margaret Aciro, whose picture appears in the video showing her face mutilated by the LRA, said she \"became sad\" after seeing it being \"used to profit.\"\n\nFather Ernest Sugule, national coordinator of the Congolese non-governmental organization SAIPD in Dungu, DRC, claimed that the few people there \"who have succeeded in watching [\"Kony 2012\"] are very critical on the film,\" as is he himself. Charlie Beckett, a media communications expert at the London School of Economics (LSE), said Invisible Children, \"haven't got the capacity for is to take that beyond another action. What are they going to do with all this energy and interest? It's going to dissipate. ... I think this will crash and die, I don't think they will catch Kony. People will say they bought the bracelet and stuck posters on lamppost but that could have negative effects when it doesn't actually lead anywhere.\"\n\nThe fame of director Jason Russell's 30-minute documentary was short-lived. After becoming the fastest video in history to have reached 100 million views, the popularity of the video dwindled – in 5 years it had added less than 1/50 of its views it had garnered in its first 144 hours. For Occupy Wall Street, the climb toward the most popular peak of the movement lasted 3 months – from August 2011 to October 2011. There is much speculation on how the movement died off. Rick Cohen suggests that the video \"sucked the energy out of the organizing\" – people already knew what Kony 2012 was so there was no need to create awareness about it. Cohen also makes reference to a \"counter-narrative\" that arose in Uganda. Ugandans criticized the movement for releasing false information – claiming that the LRA had not had a presence in Uganda since 2006. A parody of the Invisible Children, Inc., the \"Visible Children\", criticized the non-profit organization for misusing donations and overpaying their employees. The Visible Children also criticized the Kony 2012 movement for making Joseph Kony \"famous\", citing Ugandan opinions that even more supporters rallied behind Kony for publicity. Delinquent acts of graffiti from the movement's followers and lewd acts by creator Jason Russell led to further criticism of the movement. Finally, the movement's nature as a meme transformed it to be unattractive platform for some to donate.\n\nA statement purported to be released by Kony's Lord's Resistance Army rebels and signed by the group's spokesman and negotiator Justine Nyeko (\"The Leader, LRA Peace Team\") condemned the film as \"a cheap and banal panic act of mass trickery to make the unsuspecting peoples of the world complicit in the US rogue and murderous activities in Central Africa.\" The statement was obtained by Ugandan journalist Frank Nyakairu, received from Nairobi, Kenya-based LRA representatives. It was also reported that the LRA abduction rate sharply increased in the weeks since the film was released, although it was impossible to confirm the link between the rise in LRA attacks and Kony's global notoriety.\n\nOn March 8, 2012, Invisible Children released an official response addressing the criticisms directed at \"Kony 2012\". As an explanation for the simplicity of the movie, they stated that \"in [their] quest to garner wide public support of nuanced policy, [they] sought to explain the conflict in an easily understandable format.\" Jedidiah Jenkins, the director of idea development for Invisible Children, responded to the new criticisms by saying that they were \"myopic\" and that the video itself was a \"tipping point\" that \"got young people to care about an issue on the other side of the planet that doesn't affect them.\" In response to concerns about working with the Ugandan government, Invisible Children explained that they \"do not defend any of the human rights abuses perpetrated by the Ugandan government or the Ugandan army\". They added that the reason why they are working with the Ugandan army even though Kony is no longer in Uganda is that the army is \"more organized and better equipped than that of any of the other affected countries (DRC, South Sudan, CAR) to track down Joseph Kony\" and that they want all of the governments in the region to work together to arrest Kony. Jenkins stated, \"There is a huge problem with political corruption in Africa. If we had the purity to say we will not partner with anyone corrupt, we couldn't partner with anyone.\"\n\nA video titled \"Thank you, KONY 2012 Supporters\" was released on March 12, 2012 to address the criticisms directed at the film and to be \"fully transparent\", according to Invisible Children CEO Ben Keesey. The film begins with Keesey discussing the three things that the charity focuses on, which are to \"create films with compelling narratives, promote international advocacy and run on-the-ground initiatives.\" He also points out that \"overhead and travel costs are essential to those efforts\", as a part of the group's management expenses, along with going toward \"thousands of free screenings of the group's films worldwide, as well as toward bringing survivors of the Lord's Resistance Army ... to speak at these events.\" Keesey explains the way the charity's annual expenditures are made, with \"80.5 percent to 85.7 percent of total annual spending from fiscal 2007 to 2011\" going toward program expenses'—money that directly benefits their cause\", and finished by urging interested parties to make inquires to the group via Twitter, using the account @invisible and hashtag #AskICAnything. Two further short videos featured LRA survivors expressing support for the film and the organization.\n\nThe website Kickstriker, a parody of Kickstarter, contains a fake appeal to crowdsource the \"hiring private military contractors from Academi (formerly Blackwater), who will be immediately deployed to central Africa\" with a mission to capture or kill Kony. In response, Invisible Children sent the Kickstriker team a cease and desist warning to take down the parody page, accusing them of \"causing public confusion through your use of Invisible Children's copyrighted and trademarked property\" and threatening a legal action. According to Wired.com, the legal threats \"[had] Kickstriker's founders rolling their eyes.\"\n\n\"Kony 2012: Part II – Beyond Famous\" is a 20-minute video follow-up to \"Kony 2012\". The film was announced early on April 2, 2012, to be released within the week. It was initially announced to be released on April 3, but was delayed for two days due to editing problems.\n\n\"Beyond Famous\" aims to address criticisms of the original film and to present more information about Kony's LRA rebellion, including its impact on the countries other than Uganda, as well as about Invisible Children's work and the Kony 2012 campaign. Executive Director and CEO of Invisible Children, Inc. Ben Keesey, who narrates the film, said the sequel was made in two weeks. In a statement announcing the video, Keesey said that Invisible Children wants people \"to dig deeper into this conflict and actively engage in the solutions.\" Jason Russell, who was hospitalized on March 15 due to \"a temporary psychotic breakdown believed to have been brought on by the pressure of the success—and criticism—of the first film\", is not featured in \"Part II\".\n\nIn a pre-release comment, popular culture expert Robert Thompson said: \"The fact is, the story has developed in so many odd ways with all the controversy, and the sequel can't really promise the bang of that first video—which is informing people of something they did not know before. Now we're getting into the details, which is never that thrilling.\" The LRA researcher Craig Valters of the LSE's department of International Development said that the second video \"overwhelmingly\" failed to answer criticisms raised by the first film. On the other hand, Mike Pflanz, East Africa correspondent for \"The Daily Telegraph\", said that the sequel was \"a more solid, moving and, finally, accurate presentation of the ongoing battle to capture Joseph Kony\" and that, in comparison to the original video, the \"new video is couched in nuance and deploys dialogue more commonly heard in a United Nations workshop – displacement, rehabilitation, post-conflict – than in a YouTube smash.\"\n\nAccording to \"The Guardian\", the sequel \"does not seem to have captured the public's imagination in quite the same way as Invisible Children's earlier video did, failing to significantly trend on social media websites.\" By April 16, 2012, it had received 1.7 million views in 11 days, less than 2% of what the first video had in its first five days. Matt Fiorentino, director of marketing at video measurement firm Visible Measures, considered the first campaign a never-seen-before anomaly, and despite being dwarfed by its predecessor, the number of views \"Beyond Famous\" received was \"pretty good\" when compared to a regular social campaign. \"The Guardian\" nevertheless described \"Beyond Famous\" as \"one of the top 25 non-profit campaigns ever.\"\n\nOn March 21, 2012, a resolution \"condemning Joseph Kony and his ruthless guerrilla group for a 26-year campaign of terror\" was put forward by Senators Jim Inhofe and Chris Coons. The resolution stated that it would back \"the effort of Uganda, the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Central African Republic and the newest country, South Sudan, to stop Kony and his Lord's Resistance Army\", along with an official statement of support \"for the U.S. effort to help regional forces pursue commanders of the militia group.\" Overall, the resolution received support from 34 senators, both Republicans and Democrats.\n\nSupport among senators for the resolution came about after the release of the \"Kony 2012\" video and its subsequent popularity. One of the resolution leaders, Senator Chris Coons, became aware of the situation after his daughters asked him what he was doing to stop Kony and Senator Roy Blunt was informed \"at a Missouri caucus in St. Louis when a constituent quizzed him about Kony\". One of the co-sponsors of the resolution, Senator Lindsey Graham, stated that, \"When you get 100 million Americans looking at something, you will get our attention. This YouTube sensation is gonna help the Congress be more aggressive and will do more to lead to his demise than all other action combined.\"\n\nOn March 23, 2012, the African Union (AU) announced its intentions to send an international brigade of 5,000 military troops \"from Uganda, South Sudan, Central African Republic and Congo, countries where Kony's reign of terror has been felt over the years ... to join the hunt for rebel leader Joseph Kony\" and to \"neutralize\" him. According to the statement, the mission commenced on March 24, 2012, and the search \"will last until Kony is caught\", after which the task force will be disbanded. The effort is Ugandan-led and backed by the U.S. with the 100 advisers already there, who are offering advice, intelligence and training, along with equipment. The brigade has established its headquarters in Yambio in South Sudan, close to the border with the DRC, and is commanded by a Ugandan officer; a Congolese officer has oversight of intelligence operations.\n\nThe United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) spokeswoman Melissa Fleming said the agency welcomed the \"unprecedented\" initiative to \"end the atrocities in the region\" and urged all involved to respect human rights and minimize risk to civilians. AU counter-terrorism envoy Francisco Madeira said, \"We need to stop Kony.\" The ICC chief prosecutor Luis Moreno Ocampo voiced confidence that the video will \"produce the arrest of Joseph Kony this year,\" adding: \"That is the impact of the campaign.\" However, Patrick Wegner, an academic at the Max Planck Research School on Successful Dispute Resolution in International Law, claimed it was \"plain wrong\" to suggest the AU action was prompted solely by Kony 2012, saying that \"the idea is a lot older than the Kony 2012 video\" as the plans for forming an anti-LRA regional military force have been first reported in international news media in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "45635243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45635243", "title": "Leipzig University internship controversy", "text": "Leipzig University internship controversy\n\nIn March 2015, media reports appeared showing email messages sent by German Professor Annette Beck-Sickinger, the head of the biochemistry department at Leipzig University, to an anonymous male internship applicant from India. According to the released email texts, Beck-Sickinger does not accept \"“any Indian male students for internships”\", and \"“many female professors in Germany decided to no longer accept male Indian students”\". She references India's \"rape problem\" as the reason for not accepting any Indian male applicant for internships. Beck-Sickinger has described the released text as taken out of context but says she \"made a mistake\" in the incident. Subsequently, an additional anonymous Indian student released emails that appeared to show similar commentary made by Beck-Sickinger in 2014.\n\nThe alleged messages were publicly condemned in an open letter from German ambassador to India Michael Steiner. The incident occurred shortly before a scheduled official visit by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the invitation of German Chancellor Angela Merkel.\n\nReports alleging that a university professor in Germany does not accept \"“any Indian male students for internships”\", and that \"“many female professors in Germany decided to no longer accept male Indian students”\" surfaced on social media in early March 2015. Screen-shots of e-mails, allegedly sent by Annette Beck-Sickinger of the Institute of Biochemistry at Leipzig University, appeared to show that she explained her actions by reference to India's 'culture of rape'. News reports stated that Huffington Post India contacted Prof. Beck-Sickinger who confirmed that the e-mails were real but insists that they were taken out of context.\n\nOn 9 March 2015, the German ambassador to India, Michael Steiner, rebuked Beck-Sickinger's opinions as oversimplified and discriminative. Steiner's apology contrasted that of the rector of Leipzig University, Professor Beate Schücking, who offered support for Beck-Sickinger's apology: \"“Her comments on the issue of violence against women in India were not her first answer but were made in reply to a provocative e-mail which followed the initial e-mail. To say it clearly: I do not tolerate these comments. However, I accept Professor Beck-Sickinger's apology. And I can say: the published e-mail has obviously been faked.”\". Beate Schücking refused to speculate about consequences because the issue was currently being reviewed internally by her office and the Council of Deans and would be subject to review by the Academic Senate.\n\nBesides Prof. Schücking, the students council of the Leipzig University had the chance to review all relevant e-mails. A statement was published saying that the student was rejected for formal reasons and in reply to the refusal, the student provoked a discussion about social and cultural problems in India. The mail which was initially published by the student is claimed to be fake, or a \"mashup\", though in earlier press reports the professor herself is reported to have confirmed that the mail is not a hoax.\n\nWhile Leipzig University has declined to release the full text of the emails due to privacy issues, it released a statement in which it explained that the applicant had been rejected because there were no further internship openings, but had continued to converse with Beck-Sickinger by email. Beck-Sickinger released a statement in which she apologized for the incident, said she had \"made a mistake\", and pointed out that Indian students were members of both her research group and the internship program, but did not specify their genders.\n\nIn the wake of the incident, a second anonymous Indian man alleged that he had previously been rejected by Beck-Sickinger as a PhD candidate in early 2014. These emails allegedly contained the text:\nThe university responded to the second set of allegations, saying that Beck-Sickinger had deleted the message in question and that she denies having responded as claimed.\n\nJunior minister of the Indian Government, Minister of State for External Affairs (Independent Charge) V. K. Singh, said that the incident was the result of 'misunderstanding' of India and hoped that the matter could be resolved at the earliest. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Tariq Anwar said: \"“If such comment has been made, then it is condemnable. The Government of Germany should take cognizance of this and whosoever has said this, investigation should be done against that person. Such incidents only spoil the relations between two nations,”\"\n\nThe political response to the incident in Germany has been muted despite the global media coverage. German Chancellor Angela Merkel, an alumnus of Leipzig University, has not commented on the incident. Saxony Regional Minister of Science, Eva-Maria Stange, said: \"“I assume that Professor Beck-Sickinger no intention to hurt the feelings of the Indian students.”\"\n\nGerman ambassador to India Michael Steiner responded to the incident with an open letter, excerpted below, addressed to Beck-Sickinger.\n\nThe incident gave rise to commentaries by European academics who scrutinized the underlying issues raised by the incident: persistence of a colonial mind-set in Europe, an anti-Indian bias in European media, the philosophical justification for an indiscriminate academic embargo, an overview of sex related crimes in Europe, and the human rights situation in Germany with regard to discrimination and treatment of minority groups in Germany.\n\n\nRanjan Ghosh, a lecturer at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences at Uppsala, and who formerly taught in Germany opined that the incident was most likely an isolated incident. Ranjan Ghosh acknowledged that despite regulations against any racial prejudice being stringent in Germany, after the \"Nirbhaya\" case, Indians are increasingly confronted with questions about India’s rape situation.\n\nThe incident is seen as a fallout from biased views of India in Western media and comes on the heels of the controversy surrounding the release of the BBC documentary film about the 2012 Delhi gang rape called \"India's Daughter\".\n\nSocial media called upon university authorities in Germany to offer an unconditional apology.\n\nPublic response in India, whilst unanimous in condemning Beck-Sickinger's comments and allegations of an academic boycott, were also severely critical of efforts undertaken by the government to prevent horrendous crimes, including rapes, in India.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57844115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57844115", "title": "List of people assassinated by the People's Mujahedin of Iran", "text": "List of people assassinated by the People's Mujahedin of Iran\n\nThe following is a list of notable people assassinated by the People's Mujahedin of Iran. According to infoplease.com, more than 16,000 people have been killed in attacks conducted by MEK since 1979. From 26 August 1981 to December 1982, it orchestrated 336 attacks. The MEK was the first group carrying out suicide attacks in Iran. During the fall of 1981 more than 1,000 officials were assassinated, including police officers, judges, and clerics. Later, many low ranking civil servants and members of the Revolutionary Guards were also targeted. It also failed to assassinate some key figures, including Iran's current leader Ali Khameni. When the security measures around officials improved, MEK started to target thousands of ordinary citizens who supported the government and \"Hezbollahi\"s.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37171649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37171649", "title": "London Conference of 1939", "text": "London Conference of 1939\n\nThe London Conference (1939), or \"St James's Palace Conference\", which took place between 7 February-17 March 1939, was called by the British Government to plan the future governance of Palestine and an end of the Mandate. It opened on 7 February 1939 in St James's Palace after which the Colonial Secretary, Malcolm MacDonald held a series of separate meetings with an Arab and a Jewish delegation, because the Arab delegation refused to sit in the same room as the Jewish delegation. When MacDonald first announced the proposed conference he made clear that if no agreement was reached the government would impose a solution. The process came to an end after five and a half weeks with the British announcing proposals which were later published as the 1939 White Paper.\n\nOn 1936 Arabs in Palestine went for a 1936 general strike. During the strike, Palestinian Arab leaders formed the Higher National Committee (HNC).\n\nFollowing the strike the British Government established the Peel Commission, chaired by Lord Peel, to investigate the causes of the general strike, and to make recommendations to the British government, in the light of commitments made in the Balfour Declaration, to the establishment of a Jewish National Home in Palestine. The commission concluded that the only solution was to partition the country into a Jewish State and an Arab State. The two main Jewish leaders, Chaim Weizmann and Ben Gurion had convinced the Zionist Congress to approve equivocally the Peel recommendations as a basis for more negotiation.\n\nThe partition idea that was rejected by the Arabs. On 1 October 1937, with a resurgence of violence following the publication of the Peel Commission proposals, the HNC and all nationalist committees were outlawed. Five prominent Palestinians, including three members of the HNC where deported to the Seychelles. The remaining members of the HNC were either already out of the country or like Haj Amin Husseini went into hiding and then into exile in Cairo, Damascus and Beirut.\n\nOver the summer of 1938, anti-government and inter-communal violence in Palestine reached new heights. Arab militants were in control of large areas of the countryside and controlled several towns including the Old City, Jerusalem. The Jewish underground set off a series of lethal bombs in Arab markets across the country and the Jewish Special Night Squads launched their first operations. In the autumn the British authorities launched a counter-offensive. More British troops were sent and Martial Law was introduced.\n\nIn 1938, a second commission was sent to Palestine to report on how to implement the partition proposals. This commission, chaired by Sir John Woodhead, was boycotted by the Palestinian Arabs whose leaders had been deported or were in exile and who had no wish to discuss the partitioning of the country. The Woodhead Commission considered three different plans, one of which was based on the Peel plan. Reporting in 1938, the Commission rejected the Peel plan primarily on the grounds that it could not be implemented without a massive forced transfer of Arabs (an option that the British government had already ruled out). With dissent from some of its members, the Commission instead recommended a plan that would leave the Galilee under British mandate, but emphasised serious problems with it that included a lack of financial self-sufficiency of the proposed Arab State. The British Government accompanied the publication of the Woodhead Report by a statement of policy rejecting partition as impracticable due to \"political, administrative and financial difficulties\".\n\nCoinciding with the publication of the Woodhead Commission Report on 9 November 1938, the government issued a statement that it wished to end the Mandate, and that Britain would continue to govern Palestine until a new regime was established. To this end the Colonial Secretary, Malcolm MacDonald invited an Arab and a Jewish delegation to London to discuss what form of government should be established. The statement concluded that if agreement was not reached with the two delegations the government would put forward and implement its own proposals. The Arab delegation was to include Palestinian Arabs as well as representatives from five, pro-British, Arab regimes. The Jewish delegation was selected by the Jewish Agency and included Jews from the Diaspora as well as the Yishuv.\n\nBy the winter of 1938 British thinking was dominated by the territorial expansion of Nazi Germany. In the event of a European war it was essential that Britain maintained control over Egypt, Iraq and Palestine. It was certain that concessions would be offered to the Arabs and that the Zionists would be disappointed.\n\nSome Palestinian leaders welcomed the proposed conference but it soon became clear that there was not going to be any alternative to dealing with the disbanded Higher National Committee (HNC) and former Mufti of Jerusalem Amin Husseini. On 23 November the Colonial Secretary, Malcolm MacDonald, repeated his refusal to allow Amin Husseini to be a delegate, but announced his willingness to allow the five Palestinian leaders held in the Seychelles take part in the conference. This was part of an agreement made in London following informal meetings between MacDonald and Musa Alami to ensure a Palestinian Arab presence at the conference. MacDonald also assured Alami that the Mandate would be replaced with a treaty. The deportees were released on 19 December and allowed to travel to Cairo and then, with Jamal Husseini, to Beirut where a new Higher National Committee was established. Amin Husseini, who was living in Beirut, was not a member of the resulting delegation but it was under his direction. This can be seen in the refusal to accept any delegates from the National Defence Party (NDP). Attempts to form an alternative, more pro-British and less militant, Palestinian delegation led to two additional NDP delegates being added to the Palestinian representation after the start of the conference.\n\nThe five Arab regimes invited were the Kingdoms of Egypt, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, and Yemen, and the Emirate of Transjordan - all under the British sphere of influence. Egypt, Iraq and Saudi had been instrumental in ending the 1936 strike.\n\nThe Zionists had reacted negatively to the proposed conference and debated whether they should attend. Their delegation was led by Chaim Weizmann in the name of the Jewish Agency. To emphasise its claim to represent all Jews, and to counterbalance the presence of representatives from the Arab states, the delegation included members from the USA, Europe, Britain, South Africa, and Palestine.\n\nThe conference was opened by the Prime Minister, Neville Chamberlain on 7 February 1939 at St James's Palace, London. The Arab delegation refused to attend any joint sessions with the Jewish Agency delegation so there were two ceremonies. This was at the insistence of the Palestinian Arab delegates. The first ceremony, for the Arab delegation, was at 10.30 a.m., the second for the Jewish Agency delegation was at 11.45.\n\nThe Palestinian Arab delegation was led by Jamal Husseini and consisted of Awni Abd al-Hadi, Husayin al-Khalidi, Alfred Roch and Musa Alami. They were accompanied by George Antonius and Fu'ad Saba who were to act as secretaries. The Egyptian delegate was Aly Maher and Iraq was represented by its Prime Minister, Nuri Said. The Saudis were represented by Prince Faisal and Prince Khalid, both future kings of Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe Palestinian delegates had meetings with the representatives from the Arab states in Cairo from 17 January. Despite pressure from the other delegates the Palestinian group refused to include any representatives from the National Defence Party (NDP) of Raghib al-Nashashibi. A campaign of violence between the rebels and supporters of the NDP led to 136 deaths in 1939. The NDP claimed to represent a majority of the upper classes and demanded representation at the London conference. The British let it be known that if agreement could not be reached they would talk to two Palestinian Arab delegations. Raghib al-Nashashibi and Yacoub Farraj joined the Arab delegation two days after opening ceremony.\n\nAlthough the Palestinian delegates refused to have any contact with the Jewish Agency delegation some meetings did take place with other Arab delegates (see below).\n\nOn 9 February Jamal Husseini put forward the Arab position:\n\nThe first task the conference set itself was to establish the meaning of a series of letters, written in Arabic, during 1915–1916, between the British Government and the governor of Mecca, Hussein bin Ali. Known as the McMahon Correspondence they are credited with encouraging Husseini to call for an Arab revolt against the ruling Ottoman Empire. An Anglo-Arab committee was set up, with the Lord Chancellor presiding, to examine the issue. An official version of the letters was published for the first time. The committee concluded that the Arab perspective had been down-played and that, as of 1918, the British Government had no authority to ignore the views of the existing inhabitants of what was to become Palestine. But the two sides failed to agree on the exact meaning of some of the territorial references, in particular whether \"the parts of Syria extending west of Damascus, Hamah, Homs and Aleppo districts\" included Palestine.\n\nOne option discussed with both delegations was the idea of a Jewish canton as part of a Greater Syria - this proposal was quickly rejected by both sides.\n\nOn 6 March a member of the Egyptian Foreign Ministry flew from Cairo to Beirut to try to get Amin Husseini to approve concessions being considered by the delegation. Husseini insisted that they continue rejecting the British proposals.\n\nOn 17 March, having warned the delegation the day before, Colonial Secretary MacDonald read a statement outlining the British proposals and closed the conference. There had been fourteen British-Arab sessions. The British proposals were published two months later in what became known as the 1939 White Paper.\n\nThe Jewish Agency delegation was led by Chaim Weizmann, chairman of the World Zionist Organization, but it was David Ben Gurion, leader of the Jewish Agency, who dominated decision making. It was Ben Gurion who argued that the delegation should be in the name of the Jewish Agency rather than be called the Jewish delegation. But since they claimed to represent all Jews it included some non-Zionists such as Sholem Asch and Lord Melchett, as well as the president of Agudat Yisrael. The Zionists from American included Rabbi Stephen Wise and Henrietta Szold. The British Zionists included Selig Brodetsky. A sign of Ben Gurion's power was his success in blocking Lord Herbert Samuel's membership of the delegation.\n\nAlso attending were Moshe Sharett, Doris May, Leonard Stein, Berl Katznelson and Blanch Dugdale.\n\nThe Conference marked Ben Gurion becoming the prime mover in Zionist policy-making. It also saw a change in his thinking towards what he called \"combatitive Zionism\". He believed that the Yeshuv in Palestine was strong enough to defend itself. Out of a population of 440,000 around 45,000 were armed. His priority was that there should be continued and increased immigration. In particular young people of military age.\n\nAfter the opening ceremony the meetings were chaired by MacDonald. Weizmann's presentation of the Jewish Agency position reduced to four points:\n\nThe delegation was willing to accept the partition of the country, as recommended by the Peel Commission, but under protest. The 2 main Jewish leaders, Chaim Weizmann and Ben Gurion had convinced the Zionist Congress to approve equivocally the Peel recommendations as a basis for more negotiation.\n\nDespite the Palestinian Arab boycott of any meetings with Jewish Agency delegates some meetings did take place with Arab delegates. On the evening of 7 March the British managed to hold an informal meeting between three Arab deligates and four of the Jewish delegates with MacDonald and three other British officials present. The Egyptian delegate, Aly Maher, appealed for a slowing down of Jewish immigration and an end to violence. Weizmann replied suggesting they might be able to find common ground but was interrupted by Ben Gurion who insisted that there could be no slow down. The meeting ended shortly afterwards.\n\nWhat went on in the closed meetings was difficult to keep secret. At one point the Jewish Agency delegation was upset by reports of a remark made to the Arab delegation by MacDonald which was taken to be anti-Semitic.\n\nAt the meeting on 24 February 1939 Ben Gurion laid out the Jewish Agency's minimum terms which were the continuation of the Mandate and the rejection of anything that would imply Jewish minority status. At the same meeting MacDonald announced the outlines of the British policy, which was that, after a transition period, Palestine would become an independent state allied to Britain and the Jewish minority would have protected status. On 26th both delegations received a written summary of what was planned. That evening the Jewish Agency delegation refused to attend a government ceremonial dinner in their honour. On 27 February the Mapai newspaper in Palestine, Davar, published a cable from Ben Gurion: \"There is a scheme afoot to liquidate the National Home and turn us over to the rule of gang leaders.\" On the same day a coordinated series of bombs across Palestine killed 38 Arabs. The delegation refused to hold any further formal sessions and reduced its involvement to informal meetings in MacDonald's office.\n\nSt John Philby, who was present as an advisor to the Saudi delegates, held a lunch at his home on 28 February with Weizmann, Ben Gurion and Faud Hamza, the Saudi foreign affairs official, at which Philby put forward his own proposals. No further meetings took place though Philby had discussions with Weizmann and Shertok later in the year.\n\nOn 3 March Ben Gurion failed to get the delegation to disband and it was agreed that they should remain in London. On 4 March Ben Gurion became ill and had to withdraw for several days. By 16 March many of the delegates had left London.\n\nOn 17 March Weizmann sent a letter to MacDonald: \"The Jewish delegation, having given profound consideration to the proposals placed before it by His Majesty's Government on 15 March 1939, regrets that it is unable to accept them as a basis for agreement, and has therefore decided to disband.\" \n\nTwo days before the end of the conference Hitler's army began its occupation of Czechoslovakia.\n\nThe Colonial Secretary's final proposals, which were published on 17 May 1939, were:\n\nThese proposals were conditional on the end of violence in Palestine. If after ten years no agreement had been reached about the form of government the British would reconsider the situation.\n\nAfter the delegations had left London the British made a further attempt to get Arab approval by suggesting a speeded up transfer of power, conditional on an end to violence, and involvement of the League of Nations if conditions were not right for independence after 10 years. In May the HNC delegation announced its rejection of the White Paper, with Amin Husseini imposing the decision on the majority of delegates who were in favour of accepting. This was a tactical blunder which did not help the Arab National Council in any way. It is suggested that he had to refuse to deal with the British in order to maintain his leadership of the actual rebels in Palestine.\n\nOn 17 April the Histadrut announced the launch of a campaign against the proposals. In the first month after the end of the conference over 1,700 Jewish illegal immigrants entered Palestine. On 17 May, to mark the publishing of the White Paper, telephone wires were cut and Government offices attacked. There were riots in Jerusalem. Jewish attacks on Arabs and Government property continued through the summer. The Jewish underground organisation, Etzel, claimed to have killed more than 130 people over this period. There was also an increase in illegal immigrants, with 6,323 arriving between April and October, leading to a peak in Jewish unemployment.\n\nIn Zionist circles Herbert Samuel was accused of being responsible for some of the ideas in the White Paper.\n\nBen Gurion wrote in his diary: \"This is not the last word.\" He later claimed that the Prime Minister, Neville Chamberlain, had explicitly told him that the policy would not outlive the war.\n\n"}
{"id": "1181718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1181718", "title": "MV Derbyshire", "text": "MV Derbyshire\n\nMV \"Derbyshire\" was an ore-bulk-oil combination carrier built in 1976 by Swan Hunter, as the last in the series of the \"Bridge\"-class sextet. She was registered at Liverpool and owned by Bibby Line.\n\nShe was lost on 9 September 1980 during Typhoon Orchid, south of Japan. All 42 crew members and two of their wives were killed in the sinking. At 91,655 gross register tons, she was—and remains—the largest British ship ever to have been lost at sea.\n\n\"Derbyshire\" was launched in late 1975 and entered service in June 1976, as the last ship of the \"Bridge\"-class combination carrier, originally named \"Liverpool Bridge\". \"Liverpool Bridge\" and \"English Bridge\" (later \"Worcestershire\", and \"Kowloon Bridge\" respectively) were built by Seabridge for Bibby Line. The ship was laid up for two of its four years of service life.\n\nIn 1978, \"Liverpool Bridge\" was renamed \"Derbyshire\", the fourth vessel to carry the name in the company's fleet. On 11 July 1980, on what turned out to be the vessel's final voyage, \"Derbyshire\" left Sept-Îles, Quebec, Canada, her destination being Kawasaki, Japan, though she foundered near Okinawa (Southern Japan). \"Derbyshire\" was carrying a cargo of 157,446 tonnes of iron ore.\n\nOn 9 September 1980, \"Derbyshire\" hove-to in Typhoon Orchid some 230 miles from Okinawa, and was overwhelmed by the tropical storm killing all aboard. \"Derbyshire\" never issued a Mayday distress message. The vessel had been following weather routing advice by \"Ocean routes\", a commercial weather routing company (subsequently renamed WRI Weather routing incorporated).\n\nThe search for \"Derbyshire\" commenced on 15 September 1980 and was called off six days later when no trace of the vessel was found, and it was declared lost. Six weeks after \"Derbyshire\" sank, one of the vessel's lifeboats was sighted by a Japanese tanker.\n\nAfter the loss of her sister ship \"MV Kowloon Bridge\" off the coast of the Republic of Ireland in 1986, after an unfortunate series of events precipitated by deck cracking discovered after an Atlantic crossing the \"Derbyshire\" investigation was re-opened by the relatives of the victims of the sinking. With financial support from the Seafarers Union in 1994 a deep water search began.\n\nIn June 1994, the wreck of \"Derbyshire\" was found at a depth of 4 km, spread over 1.3 km. An additional expedition spent over 40 days photographing and examining the debris field looking for evidence of what sank the ship. Ultimately it was determined that waves crashing over the front of the ship had sheared off the covers of small ventilation pipes near the bow. Over the next 30+ hours, seawater had entered through the exposed pipes into the forward section of the ship, causing the bow to slowly ride lower and lower in the water. Eventually, the bow was completely exposed to the full force of the rough waves which caused the massive hatch on the first cargo hold to buckle inward allowing hundreds of tons of water to enter in moments. As the ship started to sink, the second, then third hatches also failed, dragging the ship underwater. As the ship sank, the water pressure caused the ship to be twisted and torn apart by implosion.\n\nA bronze plaque was placed on the wreckage as a memorial to those who were lost.\n\nOn 21 September 1980, the Bibby Line vessel \"Cambridgeshire\" held a memorial service for the \"Derbyshire\" in the area the vessel was lost.\n\nThe 20th anniversary of the vessel's loss was marked by a memorial service in Liverpool, England, which was attended by Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott, himself a former merchant seaman.\n\nIn 2010, a memorial service was held in the vessel's home port of Liverpool on the 30th anniversary of \"Derbyshire\"'s loss.\n\nA permanent memorial was dedicated on 15th September 2018 in the garden of the Church of Our Lady and Saint Nicholas, Liverpool. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6571351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6571351", "title": "Melodifestivalen 1975", "text": "Melodifestivalen 1975\n\nMelodifestivalen 1975 was the selection for the 16th song to represent Sweden at the Eurovision Song Contest. It was the 15th time that this system of picking a song had been used. 10 songwriters were selected by SVT for the competition. The final was broadcast on TV1 but was not broadcast on radio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018635", "title": "Music as a Weapon", "text": "Music as a Weapon\n\nMusic as a Weapon is a series of concert tours created by the American rock band Disturbed. There have been seven editions of the tour, five in North America and two in Australasia. The name of the tour is from the lyrics of \"Droppin' Plates\" on Disturbed's first album, \"The Sickness\".\n\n\n\n\n\"For a list of tour dates, see .\"\n\n\"For a list of tour dates, see Indestructible Tour.\"\n\n\"For a list of tour dates, see Asylum Tour.\"\nThis was the first time Music as a Weapon had co-headliners, Disturbed and Korn.\n\n\"For a list of tour dates, see .\"\n\nMusic as a Weapon II was recorded as a live album and DVD, created by Disturbed. It was recorded at The Aragon in Chicago in 2003, and released in 2004. It contains Disturbed's cover of Metallica's \"Fade to Black\" and the previously unreleased song \"Dehumanized\". The DVD also contains Disturbed's video for their single \"Liberate\". This was Disturbed's last release with bass guitarist Steve Kmak. It was also Ünloco's final release before splitting up.\n\n"}
{"id": "3400425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3400425", "title": "National Theatre Munich", "text": "National Theatre Munich\n\nThe National Theater () on Max-Joseph-Platz in Munich, Germany, is a historic opera house, home of the Bavarian State Opera, Bavarian State Orchestra and the Bavarian State Ballet. \n\nThe first theatre was commissioned in 1810 by King Maximilian I of Bavaria because the nearby Cuvilliés Theatre had too little space. It was designed by Karl von Fischer, with the 1782 Odéon in Paris as architectural precedent. Construction began on 26 October 1811 but was interrupted in 1813 by financing problems. In 1817 a fire occurred in the unfinished building.\n\nThe new theatre finally opened on 12 October 1818 with a performance of \"Die Weihe\" by Ferdinand Fränzl, but was soon destroyed by another fire on 14 January 1823; the stage décor caught fire during a performance of \"Die beyden Füchse\" by Étienne Méhul and the fire could not be put out because the water supply was frozen. Coincidentally the Paris Odéon itself burned down in 1818.\n\nDesigned by Leo von Klenze, the second theater incorporated Neo-Grec features in its portico and triangular pediment and an entrance supported by Corinthian columns. In 1925 it was modified to create an enlarged stage area with updated equipment. The building was gutted in an air raid on the night of 3 October 1943.\n\nThe third and present theatre (1963) recreates Karl von Fischer's original neo-classical design, though on a slightly larger, 2,100-seat scale. The magnificent royal box is the center of the interior rondel, decorated with two large caryatids. The new stage covers , and is thus the world's third largest, after the Opéra Bastille in Paris and the Grand Theatre, Warsaw.\n\nThrough the consistent use of wood as a building material, the auditorium has excellent acoustics. Architect Gerhard Moritz Graubner closely preserved the original look of the foyer and main staircase. It opened on 21 November 1963 with an invitation-only performance of \"Die Frau ohne Schatten\" under the baton of Joseph Keilberth. Two nights later came the first public performance, of \"Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg\", again under Keilberth.\n\nDuring its early years, the National Theatre saw the premières of a significant number of operas, including many by German composers. These included Wagner’s \"Tristan und Isolde\" (1865), \"Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg\" (1868), \"Das Rheingold\" (1869) and \"Die Walküre\" (1870), after which Wagner chose to build the Festspielhaus in Bayreuth and held further premières of his works there.\n\nDuring the latter part of the 19th century, it was Richard Strauss who would make his mark on the theatre in the city in which he was born in 1864. After accepting the position of conductor for a short time, Strauss returned to the theatre to become principal conductor from 1894 to 1898. In the pre-War period, his \"Friedenstag\" (1938) and \"Capriccio\" were premièred in Munich. In the post-War period, the house has seen significant productions and many world premieres.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2681485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2681485", "title": "Origins of the blues", "text": "Origins of the blues\n\nLittle is known about the exact origin of the music now known as the blues. No specific year can be cited as the origin of the blues, largely because the style evolved over a long period and existed in approaching its modern form before the term \"blues\" was introduced and before the style was thoroughly documented. Ethnomusicologist Gerhard Kubik traces the roots of many of the elements that were to develop into the blues back to the African continent, the \"cradle of the blues\". One important early mention of something closely resembling the blues comes from 1901, when an archaeologist in Mississippi described the songs of black workers which had lyrical themes and technical elements in common with the blues.\n\nThere are few characteristics common to all blues, as the genre takes its shape from the peculiarities of each individual performance. Some characteristics, however, were present prior to the creation of the modern blues, and are common to most styles of African American music. The earliest blues-like music was a \"functional expression, rendered in a call-and-response style without accompaniment or harmony and unbounded by the formality of any particular musical structure\". This pre-blues music was adapted from the field shouts and hollers performed during slave times, expanded into \"simple solo songs laden with emotional content\".\nMany of these blues elements, such as the call-and-response format, can be traced back to the music of Africa. The use of melisma and a wavy, nasal intonation also suggests a connection between the music of West and Central Africa and the blues. The belief that blues is historically derived from the West African music including from Mali is reflected in Martin Scorsese’s often quoted characterization of Ali Farka Touré’s tradition as constituting \"the DNA of the blues\".\n\nPerhaps the most compelling African instrument that is a predecessor to an African-American instrument is the \"Akonting\", a folk lute of the Jola tribe of Senegambia. It is a clear predecessor to the American banjo in its playing style, the construction of the instrument itself and in its social role as a folk instrument. The Kora is played by a professional caste of praise singers for the rich and aristocracy (called griots or jalis) and is not considered folk music. Jola music may not have been influenced much by North African/Middle Eastern music, which may point to African American music not being, according to Sam Charters, related to kora music. The music of the Akonting and that played by on the banjo by elder African-American banjo players, even into the mid 20th century is easily identified as being very similar. The akonting is perhaps the most important and concrete link that exists between African and African-American music.\n\nThe historian Sylviane Diouf and ethnomusicologist Gerhard Kubik identify Islamic music as an influence on blues music. Diouf notes a striking resemblance between the Islamic call to prayer (originating from Bilal ibn Rabah, a famous Abyssinian African Muslim in the early 7th century) and 19th-century field holler music, noting that both have similar lyrics praising God, melody, note changes, \"words that seem to quiver and shake\" in the vocal chords, dramatic changes in musical scales, and nasal intonation. She attributes the origins of field holler music to African Muslim slaves who accounted for an estimated 30% of African slaves in America. According to Kubik, \"the vocal style of many blues singers using melisma, wavy intonation, and so forth is a heritage of that large region of West Africa that had been in contact with the Arabic-Islamic world of the Maghreb since the seventh and eighth centuries.\" Kubik also notes that stringed instruments (including ancestors of the banjo) were generally favored by Muslim African slaves, while drumming was generally favored by non-Muslim African slaves.\n\nWhile the findings of Kubik and others clearly attest to the essential Africanness of many essential aspects of blues expression, studies by Willie Ruff and others have situated the origin of \"black\" spiritual music inside enslaved peoples' exposure to their masters' Hebridean-originated gospels. African-American economist and historian Thomas Sowell also notes that the southern, black, ex-slave population was acculturated to a considerable degree by and among their Scots-Irish \"redneck\" neighbours. Additionally, there are theories that the four-beats-per-measure structure of the blues might share its origins with the Native American tradition of pow wow drumming.\n\nField holler music, also known as Levee Camp Holler music, was an early form of African American music, described in the 19th century. Field hollers laid the foundations for the blues, spirituals, and eventually rhythm and blues. Field hollers, cries and hollers of the slaves and later sharecroppers working in cotton fields, prison chain gangs, railway gangs (Gandy dancers) or turpentine camps were the precursor to the call and response of African American spirituals and gospel music, to jug bands, minstrel shows, stride piano, and ultimately to the blues, rhythm and blues, jazz and African American music in general. Sylviane Diouf and Gerhard Kubik have traced the origins of field hollers to African Muslim slaves, who were influenced by the Islamic musical tradition of West Africa (see \"African roots\" above).\n\nThe most important American antecedent of the blues was the spiritual, a form of religious song with its roots in the camp meetings of the Great Awakening of the early 19th century. Spirituals were a passionate song form, that \"convey(ed) to listeners the same feeling of rootlessness and misery\" as the blues. Spirituals, however, were less specifically concerning the performer, instead about the general loneliness of mankind, and were more figurative than direct in their lyrics. Despite these differences, the two forms are similar enough that they can not be easily separated — many spirituals would probably have been called \"blues\" had that word been in wide use at the time.\n\nThe social and economic reasons for the appearance of the blues are not fully known. Blues has evolved from an unaccompanied vocal music of poor black laborers into a wide variety of styles and subgenres, with regional variations across the United States. African American work songs were an important precursor to the modern blues; these included the songs sung by laborers like stevedores and roustabouts, and the field hollers and \"shouts\" of slaves. The first appearance of the blues is not well defined and is often dated between 1870 and 1900, a period that coincides with the emancipation of the slaves and the transition from slavery to sharecropping and small-scale agricultural production in the southern United States.\n\nSeveral scholars characterize the early 1900s development of blues music as a move from group performances to a more individualized style. They argue that the development of the blues is associated with the newly acquired freedom of the slaves. According to Lawrence Levine, \"there was a direct relationship between the national ideological emphasis upon the individual, the popularity of Booker T. Washington's teachings, and the rise of the blues.\" Levine states that \"psychologically, socially, and economically, Negroes were being acculturated in a way that would have been impossible during slavery, and it is hardly surprising that their secular music reflected this as much as their religious music did.\"\n\nAn important reason for the lack of certain knowledge about the origins of the blues is the earliest blues musicians' tendency to wander through communities, leaving little or no record of precisely what sort of music they played or where it came from. Blues was generally regarded as lower-class music, unfit for documentation, study or enjoyment by the upper- and middle-classes\n\nBlue notes pre-date their use in blues. English composer Samuel Coleridge-Taylor's \"A Negro Love Song\", from his \"The African Suite for Piano\" composed in 1898, contains blue third and seventh notes.\n\nAfrican American composer W. C. Handy wrote in his autobiography of the experience of sleeping on a train traveling through (or stopping at the station of) Tutwiler, Mississippi around 1903, and being awakened by:\n\nHandy had mixed feelings about this music, which he regarded as rather primitive and monotonous, but he used the \"Southern cross' the Dog\" line in his 1914 \"Yellow Dog Rag\", which he retitled \"Yellow Dog Blues\" after the term blues became popular. \"Yellow Dog\" was the nickname of the Yazoo and Mississippi Valley Railroad.\n\nBlues later adopted elements from the \"Ethiopian (here, meaning \"black\") airs\" of minstrel shows and Negro spirituals, including instrumental and harmonic accompaniment. The style also was closely related to ragtime, which developed at about the same time, though the blues better preserved \"the original melodic patterns of African music\".\n\nSince the 1890s, the American sheet music publishing industry had produced a great deal of ragtime music. The first published ragtime song to include a 12-bar section was \"One o' Them Things!\" in 1904. Written by James Chapman and Leroy Smith, it was published in St. Louis, Missouri, by Jos. Plachet and Son. Another early rag/blues mix was \"I Got the Blues\" published in 1908 by Antonio Maggio of New Orleans\nIn a long interview conducted by Alan Lomax in 1938, Jelly Roll Morton recalled that the first blues he had heard, probably around 1900, was played by a singer and prostitute, Mamie Desdunes, in Garden District, New Orleans. Morton sang the blues: \"Can’t give me a dollar, give me a lousy dime/ You can’t give me a dollar, give me a lousy dime/ Just to feed that hungry man of mine\". The interview was released as \"The Complete Library of Congress Recordings\".\n\nIn 1912 the sheet music industry published another blues composition—\"Dallas Blues\" by Hart A. Wand of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Two other blues-like compositions, precipitating the Tin Pan Alley adoption of blues elements, were also published in 1912: \"Baby Seals' Blues\" by Baby Franklin Seals (arranged by Artie Matthews) and \"Memphis Blues\", another ragtime arrangement with a single 12-bar section, by W. C. Handy. Also in 1912 (on November 9), another song, \"The Blues\", was copyrighted by LeRoy \"Lasses\" White, but not actually published until 1913.\n\nHandy was a formally trained musician, composer and arranger who helped to popularize the blues by transcribing and orchestrating blues in an almost symphonic style, with bands and singers. He became a popular and prolific composer, and billed himself as the \"Father of the Blues\"; however, his compositions can be described as a fusion of blues with ragtime and jazz, a merger facilitated using the Afro-Cuban habanera rhythm that had long been a part of ragtime; Handy's signature work was the \"St. Louis Blues\".\n\nSongs from this period had many different structures. A testimony of those times can be found for instance in Henry Thomas's recordings. However, the twelve-, eight-bar, or sixteen-bar structure based on tonic, subdominant and dominant chords became the most common. Melodically, blues music is marked by the use of the lowered third and dominant seventh (so-called blue notes) of the associated major scale. The standard 12-bar blues form is noted in uncorroborated oral histories as appearing communities throughout the region along the lower Mississippi River during the decade of the 1900s (and performed in New Orleans at least since 1908). One of these early sites of blues evolution was along Beale Street in Memphis, Tennessee. However, author Eileen Southern has pointed out several contrasting statements by old-time musicians. She cites Eubie Blake as saying \"Blues in Baltimore? Why, Baltimore is the blues!\" and Bunk Johnson as claiming that the blues was around in his childhood, in the 1880s.\n\nOne of the first professional blues singers was Ma Rainey, who claimed to have coined the term \"blues\". Classic female urban or vaudeville blues singers were popular in the 1920s, among them Mamie Smith, Gertrude Ma Rainey, Bessie Smith, and Victoria Spivey. Mamie Smith, more a vaudeville performer than a blues artist, was the first African- American to record a blues in 1920; her \"Crazy Blues\" sold over 75,000 copies in its first month.\n\nThe musical forms and styles that are now considered the \"blues\" as well as modern \"country music\" arose in the same regions during the nineteenth century in the southern United States. Recorded blues and country can be found from as far back as the 1920s, when the popular record industry developed and created marketing categories called \"race music\" and \"hillbilly music\" to sell music by blacks for blacks and by whites for whites respectively. At the time, there was no clear musical division between \"blues\" and \"country\", except for the race of the performer, and even that sometimes was documented incorrectly by record companies.\n\n"}
{"id": "34851239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34851239", "title": "Pakistan Flower Show", "text": "Pakistan Flower Show\n\nThe Pakistan Flower Show is an annual flower show and a festival held every year in Karachi, Pakistan. It is held at the Sea View Park in Karachi. It is organized by the Horticulture Society of Pakistan. It was established in 1948 and held every year in February. The 60th festival was held on February 26, 2011 and 61st was held on February 23–26, 2012.\n"}
{"id": "13662768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13662768", "title": "Piccola Accademia di Montisi", "text": "Piccola Accademia di Montisi\n\nLocated in Tuscany, the Piccola Accademia di Montisi is a meeting place for musicians who have an interest in the harpsichord.\n\nIn recent years, popular access to original instruments has diminished, with many institutions regarding their collections as historical artefacts to be seen and not heard. The Piccola Accademia is addressing this problem by creating a collection of antique and replica harpsichords. This approach aims to guarantee the veracity of the original musical compositions for future generations by ensuring that they are performed upon historically authentic instruments. The ultimate aim is to promote the harpsichord as a vibrant, living medium.\n\nThe Piccola Accademia describes itself as \"committed to providing access to exceptional instruments, teaching and recording facilities to the musical community, as well more broadly raising the profile of quality historic performance and appreciation of the harpsichord through regular performances, festivals, community events and communications\".\n\nThe Piccola Accademia plays an active role in promoting the harpsichord to modern performers and audiences. This is achieved through the annual Montisi festival and also by educative master classes given by experts. Regular concerts are held in the stunning churches and monasteries within Montisi and the surrounding area. Held in Montisi, the Accademia's annual festival presents instrumental and vocal ensembles which showcase composers informed by the harpsichord. Artists range from rising stars of the genre to distinguished exponents of historic performance such as Alan Curtis, noted American harpsichordist, musicologist, and conductor of baroque opera. The 2007 Montisi festival marked the 250th anniversary of Domenico Scarlatti’s death with performances by Gustav Leonhardt, Mahan Esfahani, Capriccio Stravagante and others. The Piccola Accademia plans to visit London in November 2008, participating in the London Bach Society’s ‘Bachfest’ programme. Performers will include Laurence Cummings and Warwick Thompson. The 2008 Montisi festival featured performances by Bob van Asperen, Francesco Cera and ensemble, Mahan Esfahani, and Pieter Wispelwey, while the 2009 festival featured performances by Pierre Hantai, Gustav Leonhardt, and Mahan Esfahani.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41313004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41313004", "title": "Portland Film Festival", "text": "Portland Film Festival\n\nPortland Film Festival is a non-profit independent film festival that is held in several local theaters in Portland, Oregon. It was founded in 2013 by Joshua Leake and Jay Cornelius. The first film festival was held from August 27 through September 1, 2013 and featured networking events, workshops, a beer garden, and food carts. 83 films were shown in the inaugural festival and over 600 were submitted for consideration at the festival. Highlights of the event included Andy Mingo's short film \"Romance\", which was based on a Chuck Palahniuk short story.\n"}
{"id": "5672719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5672719", "title": "Rape by gender", "text": "Rape by gender\n\nRape by gender classifies types of rape by the sex or gender of both the rapist and the victim. This scope includes both rape and sexual assault more generally. Most research indicates that rape affects women disproportionately, with the majority of people convicted being men; however, since the broadening of the definition of rape in 2012 by the FBI, more attention is being given to male rape, including females raping males.\n\nSince only a small percentage of acts of sexual violence are brought to the attention of the authorities, it is difficult to compile accurate rape statistics. Conviction rates differ by the gender of both the perpetrator and victim. Various studies argue that male-male and female-female prison rape are quite common and may be the least reported form of rape. Furthermore, a large number of rape cases take place when the victims are below the age of consent, bringing in the issue of child sexual abuse or statutory rape.\n\nIn the 2001 national Youth Risk Behavior Survey, 10.2% of girls and 5.1% of boys reported \"[having] ever been physically forced to have sexual intercourse when [they] did not want to\". In a 2010 study of heterosexual couples where sexual coercion existed, 45% reported female victimization, 30% reported male victimization and 20% reported reciprocal victimization. In 2011, a study supported by a research grant from the Department of Education and Science of Spain found based on a \"convenience sample of 13,877 students in 32 nations\" that 2.4% of males and 1.8% of females admitted to having physically forced someone into having sex in the last year. In a 2014 study of 18,030 high school students, there was no statistically significant difference between males and females for the reported rate of having been physically forced to have sex.\n\nIn a 2000 research article from the Home Office, in England and Wales, around 1 in 20 women (5%) said that they had been raped at some point in their life from the age of 16 beyond.\n\nIn 2011, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) found that \"nearly 20% of all women\" in the United States suffered attempted rape or rape sometime in their life. More than a third of the victims were raped before the age of 18.\n\nAccording to a 2013 report by the CDC, 28% of victimized heterosexual women and a full 48% of bisexual women experienced their first rape between the ages of 11 and 17.\n\nMany rapes by males against females are unreported because of \"fear of reprisal from the assailant\" and because of \"shame...and deep-seated cultural notions that the woman is somehow to blame\". Researchers from the University of Surrey estimate that approximately 1 in 7 rapes by males against females are reported.\n\nPregnancy may result from rape. The rate varies between settings and depends particularly on the extent to which non-barrier contraceptives are being used. A study of adolescents in Ethiopia found that among those who reported being raped, 17% became pregnant after the rape, a figure which is similar to the 15–18% reported by rape crisis centres in Mexico. A longitudinal study in the United States of over 4000 women followed for 3 years found that the national rape related pregnancy rate was 5.0% per rape among victims aged 12–45 years, producing over 32,000 pregnancies nationally among women from rape each year. Experience of coerced sex at an early age reduces a woman’s ability to see her sexuality as something over which she has control.\n\nThe rape of women by men has been documented as a weapon of terror in warfare (see Wartime sexual violence).\n\nAssault by forcible stimulation of female genitalia by a female perpetrator is possible by digital manipulation, oral sex, strap-ons, other dildos or other foreign objects, or tribadism. A telephone survey conducted in 2010 for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that 43.8% of lesbians reported having been raped, physically abused or stalked at some point by an intimate partner; of these, 67.4% reported the perpetrator or perpetrators as being exclusively female. In the same survey, approximately 1 in 8 lesbians (13.1%) reported having been raped in their lifetime, but the sex of their rapists was not reported.\n\nA 2005 survey by the California Coalition Against Sexual Assault (CALCASA) concluded that one in three lesbian-identified participants had been sexually assaulted by a woman. Fear of coming out, distrust of and/or indifference and hostility by the police, unwillingness to turn in members of the LGBT community, and a sense that female on female rape is not taken as seriously as rape by men causes some victims to be reluctant to report rapes by other women. In one publicized case involving students at Smith College in 2005, two women were charged with the rape of another, but the victim ultimately refused to testify, and charges were dropped.\n\nA CDC study found that, in the US, 1 in 71 men had been raped or suffered an attempt within their lifetime. The same study found that approximately 1 in 21 or 4.8% men in a survey had been made to penetrate someone else, usually an intimate partner or acquaintance. A NVAW Survey found that 0.1 percent of men surveyed had been raped in the previous 12 months, compared to 0.3 percent of women. Using these statistics it was estimated that, in the US, 92,748 men had been raped in the previous year. In another study by the School of Public Health at Boston University, 30 percent of gay and bisexual men reported having experienced at least one form of sexual assault during their lifetimes.\n\nThe rape of men has often been documented as a weapon of war.\n\nMale sexual assault is also prevalent on US college campuses. On US campuses, 1 in 16 men are survivors of sexual assault. Although the rate of male sexual assault is relatively high, many do not file reports due to the misconception of sexual assault being a women’s issue due to “preconceived notions about both sexual violence and gender.\"\n\nThere are some cases when men will speak up about being a survivor, such as in the documentary \"The Hunting Ground,\" which is about the prevalence of sexual assault on college campuses in the US and the failure of college administration to adequately deal with it.\n\nRape by males against males has been heavily stigmatized. According to psychologist Dr. Sarah Crome, fewer than 1 in 10 male-male rapes are reported. As a group, male rape victims reported a lack of services and support, and legal systems are often ill-equipped to deal with this type of crime.\n\nSeveral studies argue that male-male prisoner rape, as well as female-female prisoner rape, are common types of rape which go unreported even more frequently than rape in the general population. The rape of men by men has been documented as a weapon of terror in warfare (see Wartime sexual violence). Studies have documented incidents of male sexual violence as a weapon of wartime or political aggression in Uganda, Chile, Greece, Croatia, Iran, Kuwait, the former Soviet Union and the former Yugoslavia. Seventy-six percent of male political prisoners in El Salvador surveyed in the 1980s described at least one incidence of sexual torture, and a study of 6,000 concentration-camp inmates in Sarajevo found that 80% of men reported having been raped. In the case of the Syrian Civil War (2011–present), the male detainees experienced sexual abuse like being forced to sit on a broken glass bottle, getting their genitals tied to a heavy bag of water, or being forced to watch the rape of another detainee by the officials.\n\nMale victims of sexual abuse by females often face social, political, and legal double standards. Some cases in the United States have received increased attention and sparked awareness within the population. Sometimes referred to as \"made to penetrate\" cases (by the CDC and the NISVS), male rape victims are forced to engage in penetration of the female without proper consent. In many cases, the male victims are under the influence of drugs or being held in life-threatening positions. The case of Cierra Ross' sexual assault of a man in Chicago gained national headlines and Ross was convicted of aggravated criminal sexual abuse and armed robbery with a bail set at $75,000. A similar case includes James Landrith, who was made to penetrate a female acquaintance in a hotel room while incapacitated from drinking, along with his rapist citing the fact that she was pregnant to advise him not to struggle, as this might hurt the baby.\n\nIn the UK, the 1970s Mormon sex in chains case brought increased awareness of the possibility of female-on-male rape. A young Mormon missionary named Kirk Anderson went missing in 1977, in Ewell, Surrey, after being abducted from the steps of a church meetinghouse. A few days later, Anderson made a report to the police that he had been abducted and imprisoned against his will. He said that while chained to a bed, Joyce Bernann McKinney attempted to seduce him, and then raped him. News coverage was extensive, in part because the case was considered so anomalous, having involved the rape of a man by a woman. McKinney fled to the US, extradition was not pursued by Britain, and the English court sentenced McKinney \"in absentia\" to a year in jail. Under the then-Sexual Offences Act 1956, due to the victim's gender, technically no crime of rape was committed, though indecent assault of a man applied.\n\nSome male victims, including underage children, have been forced to pay child-support to their attacker when their rapist conceives a baby as a result of the attack.\n\nSeveral widely publicized cases of female-on-male statutory rape in the United States involved school teachers engaging in sexual intercourse with their underage students. Each of the 50 states has laws regarding the age of consent, but all have it set at 16, 17 or 18. These laws make any sexual encounters between adults and minors under the age of consent sexual assault (see Mary Kay Letourneau and Debra Lafave).\n"}
{"id": "47988760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47988760", "title": "Reeves v. C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc.", "text": "Reeves v. C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc.\n\nReeves v CH Robinson Worldwide, Inc, 5 No. 07-10270 (11th Cir. January 20, 2010) is a US labor law case under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 heard before the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit which ruled that a hostile work environment can be created in a workplace where sexually explicit language and pornography are present. A hostile workplace may exist even if it is not targeted at any particular employee.\n\nMs. Reeves was the only woman working in her area as a transportation sales representative in the Birmingham, Ala., office of C.H. Robinson, an Eden Prairie, Minnesota-based transportation services firm. In her lawsuit she claimed that \"sexually offensive language permeated the work environment\" from both her co-workers and her supervisor. Sexually explicit radio programming played on a daily basis and when she complained about it she was told it was up to her to play her own radio stations. When she did change the channel others would change it back. She resigned in 2004 and filed a complaint in 2006, claiming that the sexually offensive language created a hostile work environment. \n\nA lower court dismissed her case granting summary judgment to her employer. Reeves appealed.\n\nThe United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit which ruled that a hostile work environment can be created in a workplace where sexually explicit language and pornography are present. A hostile workplace may exist even if it is not targeted at any particular employee.\n\n"}
{"id": "60800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60800", "title": "Remembrance Day", "text": "Remembrance Day\n\nRemembrance Day (sometimes known informally as Poppy Day owing to the tradition of the remembrance poppy) is a memorial day observed in Commonwealth member states since the end of the First World War to remember the members of their armed forces who have died in the line of duty. Following a tradition inaugurated by King George V in 1919, the day is also marked by war remembrances in many non-Commonwealth countries. Remembrance Day is observed on 11 November in most countries to recall the end of hostilities of World War I on that date in 1918. Hostilities formally ended \"at the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month\", in accordance with the armistice signed by representatives of Germany and the Entente between 5:12 and 5:20 that morning. (\"At the 11th hour\" refers to the \"passing\" of the 11th hour, or 11:00 am.) The First World War officially ended with the signing of the Treaty of Versailles on 28 June 1919.\n\nThe tradition of Remembrance Day evolved out of Armistice Day. The initial Armistice Day was observed at Buckingham Palace, commencing with King George V hosting a \"Banquet in Honour of the President of the French Republic\" during the evening hours of 10 November 1919. The first official Armistice Day was subsequently held on the grounds of Buckingham Palace the following morning. During World War II, many countries changed the name of the holiday. Member states of the Commonwealth of Nations adopted Remembrance Day, while the US chose Veterans Day.\n\nThe common British, Canadian, South African, and ANZAC tradition includes a one- or two-minute silence at the eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month (11:00 am, 11 November), as that marks the time (in the United Kingdom) when the armistice became effective.\n\nThe Service of Remembrance in many Commonwealth countries generally includes the sounding of the \"Last Post\", followed by the period of silence, followed by the sounding of \"Reveille\" or sometimes just \"The Rouse\" (often confused for each other), and finished by a recitation of the \"Ode of Remembrance\". The \"Flowers of the Forest\", \"O Valiant Hearts\", \"I Vow to Thee, My Country\" and \"Jerusalem\" are often played during the service. Services also include wreaths laid to honour the fallen, a blessing, and national anthems.\n\nThe central ritual at cenotaphs throughout the Commonwealth is a stylised night vigil. The Last Post was the common bugle call at the close of the military day, and The Rouse was the first call of the morning. For military purposes, the traditional night vigil over the slain was not just to ensure they were indeed dead and not unconscious or in a coma, but also to guard them from being mutilated or despoiled by the enemy, or dragged off by scavengers. This makes the ritual more than just an act of remembrance but also a pledge to guard the honour of war dead. The act is enhanced by the use of dedicated cenotaphs (literally Greek for \"empty tomb\") and the laying of wreaths—the traditional means of signalling high honours in ancient Greece and Rome.\n\nIn Australia, Remembrance Day is always observed on 11 November, regardless of the day of the week, and is not a public holiday; it is a time when people can pay their respects to the substantial number of soldiers who died in battle. Some institutions observe two-minutes' silence at 11 am through a programme named Read 2 Remember, children read the \"Pledge of Remembrance\" by Rupert McCall and teachers deliver specially developed resources to help children understand the significance of the day and the resilience of those who have fought for their country and call on children to also be resilient when facing difficult times. Services are held at 11 am at war memorials and schools in suburbs and cities across the country, at which the \"Last Post\" is sounded by a bugler and a one-minute silence is observed. In recent decades, Remembrance Day has been largely eclipsed as the national day of war commemoration by ANZAC Day (25 April), which is a public holiday in all states.\n\nWhen Remembrance Day falls on a normal working day in Melbourne and other major cities, buglers from the Australian Defence Force often play the \"Last Post\" at major street corners in the CBD. While this occurs, the majority of passers-by stop and observe a moment of silence while waiting for the bugler to finish the recital.\n\nIn Barbados, Remembrance Day is not a public holiday. It is recognised as 11 November, but the parade and ceremonial events are carried out on Remembrance Sunday.\nThe day is celebrated to recognise the Barbadian soldiers who died fighting in the First and Second World Wars. The parade is held at National Heroes' Square, where an interdenominational service is held.\nThe Governor-General and Barbadian Prime Minister are among those who attend, along with other government dignitaries and the heads of the police and military forces. During the main ceremony a , wreaths, and prayers are also performed at the war memorial Cenotaph at the heart of Heroes' Square in Bridgetown.\n\nIn Belize, Remembrance Day is observed on 11 November. It is not a public holiday.\n\nIn Bermuda, which sent the first colonial volunteer unit to the Western Front in 1915, and which had more people per capita in uniform during the Second World War than any other part of the Empire, Remembrance Day is still an important holiday. The parade in Hamilton had historically been a large and colourful one, as contingents from the Royal Navy, British Regular Army and Territorial Army units of the Bermuda Garrison, the Canadian Forces, the US Army, Air Force, and Navy, and various cadet corps and other services all at one time or another marched with the veterans. Since the closing of British, Canadian, and American bases in 1995, the parade has barely grown smaller. In addition to the ceremony held in the City of Hamilton on Remembrance Day itself, marching to the Cenotaph (a smaller replica of the one in London), where wreaths are laid and orations made, the Royal Navy and the Bermuda Sea Cadet Corps held a parade the same day at the memorial in Hamilton, and a smaller military parade is also held in St. George's on the nearest Sunday to Remembrance Day.\n\nIn Canada, Remembrance Day is a statutory holiday in all three territories and in six of the ten provinces (Nova Scotia, Manitoba, Ontario, and Quebec being the exceptions). From 1921 to 1930, the Armistice Day Act provided that Thanksgiving would be observed on Armistice Day, which was fixed by statute on the Monday of the week in which 11 November fell. In 1931, the federal parliament adopted an act to amend the \"Armistice Day Act\", providing that the day should be observed on 11 November and that the day should be known as \"Remembrance Day\". A bill (C-597) intended to make Remembrance Day a federal statutory holiday was tabled in the House of Commons during the 41st parliament, but died on the order paper when parliament was dissolved for a federal election.\n\nThe federal department of Veterans Affairs Canada states that the date is of \"remembrance for the men and women who have served, and continue to serve our country during times of war, conflict and peace\"; particularly the First and Second World Wars, the Korean War, and all conflicts since then in which members of the Canadian Armed Forces have participated. The department runs a program called \"Canada Remembers\" with the mission of helping young and new Canadians, most of whom have never known war, \"come to understand and appreciate what those who have served Canada in times of war, armed conflict and peace stand for and what they have sacrificed for their country.\"\nThe official national ceremonies are held at the National War Memorial in Ottawa. These are presided over by the Governor General of Canada and attended by the prime minister, other dignitaries, the Silver Cross Mother, and public observers. Occasionally, a member of the Canadian Royal Family may also be present (such as Prince Charles in 2009 and Princess Anne in 2014).\n\nBefore the start of the event, four sentries and three sentinels (two flag sentinels and one nursing sister) are posted at the foot of the cenotaph. The commemoration then typically begin with the tolling of the carillon in the Peace Tower, during which current members of the armed forces arrive at Confederation Square, followed by the Ottawa diplomatic corps, ministers of the Crown, special guests, the Royal Canadian Legion (RCL), the royal party (if present), and the viceregal party. The arrival of the governor general is announced by a trumpeter sounding the \"Alert\", whereupon the viceroy is met by the Dominion President of the RCL and escorted to a dais to receive the Viceregal Salute, after which the national anthem, \"O Canada\", is played.\nThe moment of remembrance begins with the bugling of \"Last Post\" immediately before 11:00 am, at which time the gun salute fires and the bells of the Peace Tower toll the hour. Another gun salute signals the end of the two minutes of silence, and cues the playing of a lament, the bugling of \"The Rouse\", and the reading of the \"Act of Remembrance\". A flypast of Royal Canadian Air Force craft then occurs at the start of a 21-gun salute, upon the completion of which a choir sings \"In Flanders Fields\". The various parties then lay their wreaths at the base of the memorial; one wreath is set by the Silver Cross Mother (a recent recipient of the Memorial Cross) on behalf of all mothers whose children died in conflicts in which Canada participated. The viceregal and/or royal group return to the dais to receive the playing of the Canadian Royal Anthem, \"God Save the Queen\", prior to the assembled armed forces personnel and veterans performing a march past in front of the viceroy and any royal guest, bringing about the end of the official ceremonies. A tradition of paying more personal tribute has emerged since erection of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at the War Memorial in 2000: after the official ceremony the general public place their poppies atop the tomb.\n\nSimilar ceremonies take place in provincial capitals across the country, officiated by the relevant lieutenant governor, as well as in other cities, towns, and even hotels or corporate headquarters. Schools will usually hold special assemblies for the first half of the day, or on the school day prior, with various presentations concerning the remembrance of the war dead. The largest indoor ceremony in Canada is usually held in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, with over 9,000 gathering in Credit Union Centre in 2010; the ceremony participants include veterans, current members of the Canadian forces, and sea, army, and air cadet units. \n\nIn 1994, National Aboriginal Veterans Day was inaugurated to recognise the contribution of Aboriginal soldiers. In 2001, Merchant Navy Remembrance Day was created by the Canadian parliament, designating 3 September as a day to recognise the contributions and sacrifice of Canadian merchant mariners.\n\nIn India, the day is usually marked by tributes and ceremonies in army cantonments. There are memorial services in some churches such as St. Mark's Cathedral and St. John's Church in Bangalore. At Kohima and Imphal in the remote hillsides of North East India, services of remembrance supported by the Indian Army are observed at Kohima and Imphal War Cemeteries (maintained by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission). The day is also marked at the Delhi War Cemetery. In other places in India this event is not observed. In 2013, Prince Charles and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, marked the day in Mumbai's St. John the Evangelist Church.\n\nIn Kenya, the Kenya Armed Forces Old Comrades Association (KAFOCA) was established in Kenya immediately in 1945 to cater for the welfare of the Ex-servicemen of the First and the Second World Wars. The KAFOCA and Kenyan government recognise Remembrance Day.\n\nNew Zealand's national day of remembrance is Anzac Day, 25 April.\n\"Poppy Day\" usually occurs on the Friday before Anzac Day.\nThe reason for New Zealand having their remembrance on Anzac Day happened in 1921. The paper Poppies for Armistice that year arrived by ship too late for 11 November 1921, so an RSA branch distributed them at the next commemoration date (25 April 1922, which happened to be Anzac Day) and that date stuck as the new Poppy Day in New Zealand.\n\nArmistice Day was observed in New Zealand between the World Wars, although it was always secondary to Anzac Day. As in other countries, New Zealand's Armistice Day was converted to Remembrance Day after World War II, but this was not a success. By the mid-1950s the day was virtually ignored, even by churches and veterans' organisations.\n\nSince the Unknown Warrior being returned to New Zealand for Armistice Day 2004, more ceremonies are now being held in New Zealand on Armistice Day and more churches are now observing Remembrance Sunday.\n\nLike Barbados, St. Lucia does not recognise Remembrance day as a public holiday. Instead, ceremonial events such as parades and other activities are held on Remembrance Sunday. The parade is held at the central square, namely the Derek Walcott Square, where the Cenotaph is located. There, members of the Royal St Lucia Police Force and other uniformed groups such as the St Lucia Cadet Corps pay tribute through commemoration of St. Lucian men and women who fought in the war.\n\nIn South Africa, Remembrance Day is not a public holiday. Commemoration ceremonies are usually held on the nearest Sunday, at which the \"Last Post\" is played by a bugler followed by the observation of a two-minute silence. Ceremonies to mark the event in South Africa are held at the Cenotaph in Cape Town, and in Pretoria at the Voortrekker Monument cenotaph and the War Memorial at the Union Buildings. Many high schools hold Remembrance Day services to honour the past pupils who died in the two World Wars and the Border war. In addition, the South African Legion of Military Veterans holds a street collection on the nearest Saturday to gather funds to assist in welfare work among military veterans.\n\nWreath-laying ceremonies, usually organised by local branches of the Royal British Legion, are observed on Remembrance Day at most war memorials across the UK at 11 am on 11 November, with two minutes of silence observed; a custom which had lapsed before a campaign for its revival began in the early 1990s.\n\nMany employers and businesses invite their staff and customers to observe the two minutes' silence at 11:00 am. The beginning and end of the two minutes' silence is often marked in large towns and cities by the firing of ceremonial cannon.\n\nThe first two-minute silence held in London (11 November 1919) was reported in the \"Manchester Guardian\" on 12 November 1919:\n\nThe first stroke of eleven produced a magical effect.\n\nThe tram cars glided into stillness, motors ceased to cough and fume, and stopped dead, and the mighty-limbed dray horses hunched back upon their loads and stopped also, seeming to do it of their own volition.\n\nSomeone took off his hat, and with a nervous hesitancy the rest of the men bowed their heads also. Here and there an old soldier could be detected slipping unconsciously into the posture of 'attention'. An elderly woman, not far away, wiped her eyes, and the man beside her looked white and stern. Everyone stood very still ... The hush deepened. It had spread over the whole city and become so pronounced as to impress one with a sense of audibility. It was a silence which was almost pain ... And the spirit of memory brooded over it all.\nIn the United Kingdom, the main observance is Remembrance Sunday, held on the Sunday nearest to 11 November. There is a National Service of Remembrance in London, as well as other services and ceremonies in the regions. Typically, poppy wreaths are laid by representatives of the Crown, the armed forces, and local civic leaders, as well as by local organisations including ex-servicemen organisations, cadet forces, the Scouts, Guides, Boys' Brigade, St John Ambulance and the Salvation Army. A minute's or two minutes' silence is also frequently incorporated into church services.\nIn 2014 the Royal Mint issued a colour-printed Alderney £5 coin, designed by engraver Laura Clancy, to commemorate Remembrance Day.\n\nAlso in 2014, to commemorate the outbreak of World War I a huge display called Blood Swept Lands and Seas of Red, consisting of 888,246 ceramic poppies was installed in the moat of the Tower of London, each poppy representing a British Empire fatality.\n\nOn 5 November 2018 and set to continue for 4 months, about 10,000 torches were lit at the foot of the Tower’s walls, in its dry moat to mark the centenary of the end of the World War I.\n\nRemembrance Day is officially observed in Northern Ireland in the same way as in the rest of United Kingdom, although it tends to be associated more with the unionist community. Most Irish nationalists and republicans do not take part in the public commemoration of British soldiers organized by the Royal British Legion. This is mainly due to the actions of the British Army during The Troubles. However, some moderate nationalists began to attend Remembrance Day events as a way to connect with the unionist community. In 1987 a bomb was detonated by the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) just before a Remembrance Sunday ceremony in Enniskillen, killing eleven people. The IRA said it had made a mistake and had been targeting soldiers parading to the war memorial. The bombing was widely condemned and attendance at Remembrance events, by both nationalists and unionists, rose in the following years. The Republic of Ireland has a National Day of Commemoration in July for all Irish people who have died in war.\n\nRemembrance Day (11 November) is a national holiday in France and Belgium. It commemorates the armistice signed between the Allies and Germany at Compiègne, France, for the cessation of hostilities on the Western Front, which took effect at 11:00 am—the \"eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month.\" Armistice Day is one of the most important military celebrations in France, since it was a major French victory and the French paid a heavy price in blood to achieve it. The First World War was considered in France as the \"Great Patriotic War\". Almost all French villages feature memorials dedicated to those fallen during the conflict. In France the blue cornflower \"(Bleuet de France)\" is used symbolically rather than the poppy.\n\nIn 2009 the Danish government established Veterans' Day with early events on 5 September where past and present members of the armed forces, who have done service in armed conflict, are remembered.\n\nThe German national day of mourning is the secular public holiday of Volkstrauertag,\nwhich since 1952 has been observed two Sundays before the first Sunday of Advent;\nin practice this is the Sunday closest to 16 November. The anniversary of the Armistice itself is not observed in Germany.\n\nEach of the major German churches has its own festivals for commemorating the dead, observed in November: All Souls Day in the case of the Roman Catholic Church, \"Ewigkeitssonntag\" or \"Eternity Sunday\" in the case of the Lutheran church.\n\nThough not a public holiday since July 1997, Remembrance Sunday is observed in Hong Kong, and is marked by a multi-faith memorial service at the Cenotaph in Central, Hong Kong. The service is organised by the Hong Kong ex-servicemen Association, and is attended by various Government officials and the representatives of various religious traditions such as the Anglican Church, the Roman Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church, the Buddhist community, the Taoist community, the Muslim community and the Sikh community.\n\nAlthough Hong Kong ceased to be part of the Commonwealth of Nations in 1997, the memorial service still resembles those in many other Commonwealth countries. The service includes the sounding of \"Last Post\", two minutes of silence, the sounding of \"Reveille\", the laying of wreaths, and prayers, and ends with a recitation of the \"Ode of Remembrance\". The Hong Kong Police Band continues to perform their ceremonial duty at the service. Members of the Hong Kong Air Cadet Corps (including the Ceremonial Squadron), Hong Kong Adventure Corps, Hong Kong Sea Cadet Corps and scouting organisations are also in attendance.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, Armistice or Remembrance Day is not a public holiday. In July there is a National Day of Commemoration for Irish men and women who have died in war. Nevertheless, Remembrance Sunday is marked by a ceremony in St Patrick's Cathedral, Dublin, which the President of Ireland attends. During World War I, many Irishmen served in the British Army, but official commemoration of them (and other British soldiers) has been controversial. The British Army was used to suppress the Easter Rising (1916) and fought the forces of the Irish Republic during the Irish War of Independence (1919–22). A very small number of people living in the Republic still enlist in the British Army, although the British Army is banned from recruiting there under the \"Defence Act 1954\". The Irish National War Memorial Gardens in Dublin is dedicated to the memory of the 49,400 Irish soldiers who were killed in action in World War I.\n\nIn Israel there are two ceremonies, the first being in Jerusalem, at the British War Cemetery on the Saturday before Remembrance Sunday, organised by the British Consul in Jerusalem. The second ceremony is in Ramleh on the Sunday itself, organised by the British embassy in Tel Aviv. The Ramleh ceremony is the larger, and is also attended by veterans of the Second World War.\n\nIn Italy, soldiers who died for the nation are remembered on 4 November, when the ceasefire that followed the Armistice of Villa Giusti in 1918 began. The Day is known as the \"Day of National Unity Day of the Armed Forces\", \"Giorno dell'Unità Nazionale Giornata delle Forze Armate\" in Italian.\nSince 1977, this day has not been a public holiday; now, many services are held on the first Sunday in November.\n\nIn the Netherlands, Remembrance Day is commemorated annually on 4 May. It is not a public holiday. Throughout the country, military personnel and civilians fallen in various conflicts since World War II are remembered. The main ceremonies are at the Waalsdorpervlakte near The Hague, the Grebbeberg near Wageningen and Dam Square in Amsterdam. Two minutes of silence are observed at 8:00 pm. Remembrance Day is followed by Liberation Day on 5 May.\n\nIn Norway the Norwegian Armed Forces commemorate Veteran's Day. The Norwegian Parliament, the Storting, decreed that Veteran's Day would be observed on the same day as Victory in Europe Day, in Norway known as \"Frigjøringsdagen\", or Liberation Day. The ceremonies are held annually in Akershus Fortress, with the King of Norway, Harald V, present. The first of such ceremonies was held on 8 May 2011, with two Norwegian Special Forces Operators being awarded the War Cross for deployments in the recent War in Afghanistan. The ceremonies are observed with memorials and military salutes.\n\n11 November is a public holiday in Poland called Independence Day, as the ending of First World War allowed Polish people to regain the freedom and unity of their country after over a hundred years of partitions. Major events include laying flowers on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier by members of the government and highest authorities, other public ceremonies and church services and school celebrations.\n\nIt has been a statutory holiday in Serbia since 2012. Serbia is an Allied force that suffered the biggest casualty rate in World War I. To commemorate their victims, people in Serbia wear Natalie's ramonda as a symbol of remembrance.\n\nVeterans Day is observed in the United States on 11 November, and is both a federal holiday and a state holiday in all states. However, the function of the observance elsewhere is more closely matched by Memorial Day in May. In the United States, and some other allied nations, 11 November was formerly known as Armistice Day; in the United States it was given its new name in 1954 at the end of the Korean War to honour all veterans. Veterans Day is observed with memorial ceremonies, salutes at military cemeteries, and parades.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21576903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21576903", "title": "Southern Theatre (Columbus, Ohio)", "text": "Southern Theatre (Columbus, Ohio)\n\nThe Southern Theatre is an historic theater located at 21 East Main Street in downtown Columbus, Ohio. It opened on September 21, 1896 and is the oldest surviving theater in Central Ohio and one of the oldest in the state of Ohio. The Southern Theatre is currently owned and operated as a home for live concerts, plays and opera by CAPA (the Columbus Association for the Performing Arts). CAPA also manages several other venues in Columbus including the Ohio, the Palace, and the Lincoln Theatres.\n\nBetween 1889 and 1893 a series of fires destroyed five downtown Columbus theaters. As a result, a group of businessmen decided to develop a new hotel and theater with modern construction and safety features on the southern edge of downtown. The building was called \"The Great Southern Fireproof Hotel and Opera House\", and was designed by the local architectural firm of Dauben, Krumm, and Riebel. Construction began in 1894. Both the theater and the hotel were constructed of \"fireproof\" tile, brick, iron, steel, and concrete.\n\nThe theater's auditorium design was progressive for its day and was reminiscent of Louis H. Sullivan's 1891 Schiller Theatre in Chicago. From the proscenium opening, a series of concentric arches dotted with incandescent electric lights radiate into the house, resulting in superior lighting and excellent acoustics. Built to be self-sufficient, the theater, one of the first commercial buildings in Columbus to use electricity, generated its own power. Additionally, the building had three wells in the basement, from which it produced its own water supply. The theatre currently seats 933 and is an intimate \"jewel box\" type theater with two balconies.\n\nIn 1982, the Southern Theatre and its associated hotel were added to the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe Great Southern Theatre originally hosted theatrical touring productions. Sarah Bernhardt was just one of the famous performers to play the theater in its first two decades. In the 1910s and 1920s the theater, now called the Southern, featured first run silent films and live vaudeville. From the 1930s on, the Southern was a popular home for second-run double features. In the 1970s the theater briefly returned to first run fare as the Towne Cinema, showing black exploitation movies. Throughout the 1970s the Southern also hosted a weekly live Country Music Jamboree, sponsored by local radio station WMNI.\n\nThe theater closed in 1979 and in 1986 was acquired by CAPA. After sitting empty for nearly two decades, the Southern was completely restored by CAPA in 1997-98 during an extensive 14-month rebuilding process. The newly restored Southern Theatre reopened on September 26, 1998.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46761377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46761377", "title": "Super Bowl LIII", "text": "Super Bowl LIII\n\nSuper Bowl LIII, the 53rd Super Bowl and the 49th modern-era National Football League (NFL) championship game, will decide the league champion for the 2018 NFL season. The game is scheduled to be played on February 3, 2019, at Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia. This will be the third Super Bowl in Atlanta, having previously hosted Super Bowl XXVIII in 1994 and Super Bowl XXXIV in 2000 at the Georgia Dome.\n\nOn May 19, 2015, the league announced the four finalists that will compete to host Super Bowl LIII in 2019, LIV in 2020, and LV in 2021. NFL owners voted on these cities on May 24, 2016, with the first round of voting determining the host for Super Bowl LIII, the second round deciding a different site for Super Bowl LIV, and the third round deciding the site for Super Bowl LV. The four finalists for Super Bowl LIII, all in the Southeastern United States, were:\n\n\nAfter three votes, Atlanta was awarded Super Bowl LIII at the NFL owners' meeting on May 24, 2016. The losing candidates, except for New Orleans which removed itself from the voting for all games except Super Bowl LIII due to event conflicts in 2020 and 2021, were then pitted against Los Angeles Stadium at Hollywood Park in Inglewood, California for Super Bowl LIV and Super Bowl LV hosting rights. Miami eventually won the rights to host Super Bowl LIV, and Los Angeles won the rights to host Super Bowl LV. However, on May 23, 2017, NFL owners opted to award Super Bowl LV to Tampa and give Super Bowl LVI to Los Angeles after it was announced that Los Angeles Stadium at Hollywood Park would open in 2020 due to construction delays. New Orleans would be awarded Super Bowl LVIII.\n\nThe NFL unveiled the official logo for Super Bowl LIII in February 2018; it is a navy blue-tinted version of the design introduced at Super Bowl LI, and the overall branding of the game will feature use of blue and red. The host committee logo features a stylized overhead rendition of Mercedes-Benz Stadium's roof.\n\nPre-game events and entertainment will be centered around Downtown Atlanta, with State Farm Arena to host Super Bowl Opening Night, the Georgia World Congress Center hosting the Super Bowl Experience, and Super Bowl Live at Centennial Olympic Park. State Farm Arena will also host the inaugural \"Bud Light Super Bowl Music Fest\", a three-night concert series that will be headlined by Ludacris and Migos (night 1), Aerosmith (night 2), and Bruno Mars and Cardi B (night 3).\n\nThe NFL will officially launch its centennial commemorations at Super Bowl LIII, ahead of its 100th season later in the year.\n\nCBS will broadcast Super Bowl LIII, as part of an annual cycle between the three main broadcast television partners of the NFL. As with CBS's previous Super Bowl (Super Bowl 50), ESPN Deportes will air a Spanish-language broadcast of the game.\n\nOn September 19, 2018, it was reported that the American pop rock band, Maroon 5, will headline the game's halftime show, though neither the NFL nor Maroon 5 have confirmed the reports.\n"}
{"id": "34164584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34164584", "title": "The Merry Old Soul", "text": "The Merry Old Soul\n\nThe Merry Old Soul is a 1933 animated short film by Walter Lantz Productions, and part of the Oswald the Lucky Rabbit series. The cartoon was also nominated for an Academy Award.\n\nOswald goes to a dental clinic for treatment to his cavity problem. While the dentist tries to pull out his damaged tooth, news break out of a radio in the shop, reporting that the king is in serious depression and needs to be cheered up. In this, Oswald abandons his dental treatment, and heads outside to spread the word.\n\nIn his castle, Old King Cole is having a long face for some reason. His personal jester tries to brighten him up but to no avail, and therefore leaves the throne room. Oswald then shows up and reads to him a book of comical rhymes. The rabbit's attempt helps a little and the king's mood improves slightly. Other entertainers (caricatures of film comedians Charlie Chaplin, Laurel and Hardy, The Marx Brothers and Jimmy Durante ) also come in for a similar cause. Each of them has a distinctive method in providing comedy. It all comes down when some of them employs an act that involves hurling pies at each other. Eventually, everyone in the room joins the food fight, and so does the king who starts to enjoy it.\n\nMomentarilly, the jester returns to the throne room to see what is happening. Upon noticing the king back in good spirits, the jester grows envious, and decides to take his grudge on one of the entertainers. The jester captures Oswald and brings the rabbit into a torture chamber at a basement of the castle. He then puts a noose around Oswald's neck, with other end of the rope being pulled by three elephants. Oswald finds this ordeal impossible to get out of.\n\nIt appears the experience at the castle was nothing more than a nightmare as Oswald wakes up and sees himself still at the dental clinic. The dentist, at last, succeeds in extracting the tooth, and Oswald is relieved of his dental worries.\n\nThe short is available on \"The Woody Woodpecker and Friends Classic Cartoon Collection\" DVD box set.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51089933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51089933", "title": "The Ratman of Southend", "text": "The Ratman of Southend\n\nThe Ratman of Southend is an English urban legend originating in Southend-on-Sea, Essex.\nThe story of the Ratman tells of an old homeless man, seeking shelter from the cold in an underpass, was set upon by a group of youths and beaten to near-death, cold and blood loss doing the rest. As he died, the numerous vermin who inhabit the area gathered, and were found to have devoured his face. After this, a ghostly figure was spotted in the underpass, with people hearing ratlike squealing, and scraping, as if large claws were moving across the walls.\n\n"}
{"id": "442126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=442126", "title": "Toronto Fringe Festival", "text": "Toronto Fringe Festival\n\nThe Toronto Fringe Festival is an annual theatre festival, featuring un-juried plays by unknown or well-known artists, taking place in the theatres of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Several productions originally mounted at the Fringe have later been remounted for larger audiences, including the Tony Award-winning musical \"The Drowsy Chaperone\".\n\nThe Toronto Fringe Festival started in 1989. Today the festival presents over 150 individual productions from Canada and around the world. It is well known for not having a jury to judge which plays will be presented. Instead it uses a lottery system which gives each play an equal chance. It depends mostly on volunteers, donors/sponsors, and government grants. One notable feature is the 24-hour playwriting contest in which contestants write a play in one day based on items selected by the Fringe and the winning play is performed on the last day of the festival.\nIn 2008 \"The Fringe of Toronto\" launched a second festival called \"The Next Stage Festival\" (NSTF) which takes place annually in January. Unlike the summer festival, NSTF is juried and presents both new and remounted projects by \"Fringe Artists\". Also, unlike the summer Fringe Festival NSTF only showcases 8 productions.\n\nNSTF was the first major step in the organization branching out to a year-round support organization that brings many opportunities to artists and arts-lovers. Since the launch of NSTF \"The Toronto Fringe\" has also introduced a number of artists outreach programs including The Fringe Evolution Fund to help independent producers remount their shows outside of the festival, and youth outreach programs including 10x10x10 which distributes 1,000 rush passes to priority youth in and around Toronto.\n\nIn 2010 the Toronto Fringe launched a new and expanded Fringe Club featuring free nightly entertainment, an expanded beer tent, a public stage called \"Postscript Patio\", art installations called Fringe-Pretty-Things, and food service provided by local restaurants.\n2011 saw the grand opening of yet another expansion, this time a year-round fixture called \"The Fringe Creation Lab\".The Creation Lab is the new home of the Toronto Fringe and the indie arts community. The Lab consists of two studio spaces and the Toronto Fringe admin office, both housed on the 4th floor of the Centre for Social Innovation in the Annex. (Just steps away from Bathurst Station.) Both studios are available for anyone to rent at any time to do whatever they want. The spaces can be rented at various levels of subsidy, on a first-come, first-served basis. The studios are already a buzzing arts hub, bookable all hours of the day and night, where artists can focus on their craft and connect with their community without breaking the bank\n\nIt seems nearly all members of Toronto's professional theatre scene have performed in, or written a Fringe show at some point in their careers. Some notable productions include \"Da Kink in My Hair\", which was later developed into a TV show by GlobalTV; and \"The Drowsy Chaperone\", which went on to Broadway and several world tours. In 2009, \"My Mother's Lesbian Jewish-Wiccan Wedding\" was picked up by Mirvish Productions from the festival and opened only 3 months later at Toronto's Panasonic Theatre. \"Kim's Convenience\", winner of the 2011 Best New Play award, was remounted in 2012 by Soulpepper Theatre, and went on to become the successful TV series \"Kim's Convenience\" .\n"}
{"id": "24164633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24164633", "title": "Trafford Metropolitan Borough Council election, 1984", "text": "Trafford Metropolitan Borough Council election, 1984\n\nElections to Trafford Council were held on 3 May 1984. One third of the council was up for election, with each successful candidate to serve a four-year term of office, expiring in 1988. The Conservative Party retained overall control of the council.\n\nDue to the death of one of the candidates for Timperley ward after the close of nominations, the election for Timperley was postponed until 28 June 1984. The result shown on this page is the result of that election.\n\nAfter the election, the composition of the council was as follows:\n"}
{"id": "47565033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47565033", "title": "Veganmania", "text": "Veganmania\n\nVeganmanias are annual vegan festivals held in numerous locations around the world. These festivals take place in the following cities: \n\nIn 2014, the festival in Vienna built the biggest vegan fried egg.\n\n\n"}
