{"id": "55898953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55898953", "title": "2010 Hong Kong democracy protests", "text": "2010 Hong Kong democracy protests\n\nThe 2010 Hong Kong democracy protests reflect the growing force of the pro-democracy movement, and were sparked by events that year including electoral reforms and the arrest of a high-profile Chinese activist, Liu Xiaobo. The democracy movements of 2010 can be seen as a precursor to the events of the 2014 Umbrella Revolution.\n\nHong Kong, as a former British colony, was reunified with mainland China in 1997 under the concept of “One Country, Two Systems”. While originally a concept with no legal power, a committee consisting of 59 members from different backgrounds and industries joined together after the signing of Sino-British Joint Declaration to create the basic laws of the new Hong Kong under China based on the ideas stipulated in the Declaration and thus gave national legitimacy to the concept. Effective July 1, 1997, Hong Kong was to be treated as fully autonomous from mainland China. This is followed in the Declaration by the promise that “[Hong Kong] will remain unchanged for 50 years”, until 2047.\n\nHong Kong’s chief executive is chosen by an 800-member committee, while its legislature of 60 is half elected and half chosen by interest groups called functional constituencies, While a democratic style of government election is promised in Hong Kong’s constitution, China ruled in 2007 that Hong Kong cannot directly elect a leader until 2017 and its legislature until 2020.\n\nAccording to figured offered by the Hong Kong police, 9000 people marched to Beijing’s representative office. Organizers claim that more than 30,000 protesters turned up to reignite the democracy movement at times when locals were preoccupied with economic issues. A diverse group of organizations joined the march but largely aligned themselves with three headline causes: 'true' universal suffrage, abolition of the small-circle functional constituencies, and freedom for Chinese dissident Liu Xiabo. The exception was protesters opposing the location of a Hong Kong connection to the Mainland's national high-speed rail network through a New Territories village. Protesters carried out colorful banners such as “Democracy Now!” Some demonstrators held aloft portraits of Liu Xiaobo, demanding the release of the prominent writer and activist. Hundreds of police erected steel barricades and with minor scuffles when they tried to prevent a small number of protesters from storming the office. New year marches are a fixture on the political calendar in Hong Kong.\n\nMore than 3000 people marched from Victoria Park to the Central Government Offices to demand full democracy in Hong Kong in the May 2nd Protest. In January 2010, the Five Constituencies Referendum triggered a by-election when five pan-democrats stepped down. The protest happened a couple of weeks before the scheduled by-election on 16 May 2010, during which few politicians tried to turn it into a referendum on political reform that unsurprisingly failed.\n\nJuly 1st protests are annual protest rallies originally held by the Civil Human Rights Front. The holiday commemorates the day of handover from the United Kingdom to China in 1997 and the establishment of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. The July 1st march in 2010 was the first public march for democracy in Hong Kong after the unprecedented acceptance by Beijing of a limited democratic reform proposal by the Democratic Party under a document titled the 'Consultation Document on the Methods for Selecting the Chief Executive and for Forming the LegCo in 2012'. While this was seen by a step forward for Hong Kong, many were disappointed in the pan-democracy camp for going back on their word to settle for something less than pure universal suffrage. As a result, approximately 52,000 people took part in the protest. An anniversary parade was organized by opposition pro-government groups, attended by 2000 people. Several hundred democratic party members faced verbal abuse and chants such as “shame on you” and “you betrayed Hong Kong’s people” throughout the march to the Hong Kong government headquarters for selling out to Beijing.\n\nIn January 10, five legislators from the Civic Party and the League of Social Democrats, one from each of Hong Kong’s electoral districts resigned their seats as a part of the ‘Five Constituencies Resignation’ concept for meaningful political reform. Albert Chan, Alan Leong, Tanya Chan, “Longhair” Leung Kwok-hung, and Wong Yuk-man resigned from the Legislative Council of Hong Kong. The intention was to trigger by-elections by pitting pro-democracy candidates against pro-China ones in hopes for a de facto referendum on full democracy. However, the Basic Law of Hong Kong does not provide for official referenda. Their resignations were submitted on 26 January 2010, with effect on 29 January 2010. They resigned in spite of Beijing warning them not to, Chief Executive Donald Tsang claimed that the “so-called referendum” had no legal grounding. The by-elections were nevertheless held on 16 May 2010. Following a boycott by the pro-government parties, the five who resigned were returned to the Legislative Council by voters. The by-election was criticized as a waste of taxpayers’ money.\n\nProtesters called for the release of the Chinese activist Liu Xiaobo, who was detained on 8 December 2008. He was formally arrested and sentenced to eleven years of imprisonment and two years’ deprivation of political rights on 25 December 2009 for “inciting subversion of state power” in the manifesto he co-authored, Charter 08.\n\nThe Central Government unveiled a package of electoral reforms, calling for 10 new seats in the legislature from 60 to 70 of which 40 will be directly elected, the first time a majority of seats will be determined by popular vote. It also called for an extra 400 people to be added to the 800-member committee that nominates and elects the Chief Executive. The bill requires a vote of 40, or a two-thirds majority threshold to pass. Hong Kong’s Legislative Council passed the bill on 25 June 2010 with 46 lawmakers, including moderates, in favor. 12 others, including members from the League of Social Democrats and all five members of the Civic Party, voted against it. Opponents view that the bill does not go far enough and does not set any concrete roadmap for Hong Kong’s universal suffrage, leaving uncertainty. The pan-democracy camp attacked the conservative proposals as a rehash of those already rejected in 2005, but the Hong Kong government under Donald Tsang said its proposals were “more democratic”, and could not exceed what was authorized by Beijing. The pan-democratic party was split when The Democratic Party opted to vote with the Beijing government, parting company with the Civic Party and the League of Social Democrats. The Chief Executive assented on 29 June 2010, and China’s parliament ratified the decision on 28 August. It was the first time Hong Kong's legislature had passed major reforms to electoral arrangements since the city reverted from British to Chinese rule in 1997. A previous attempt in 2005 was voted down by opposition democrats.\n\nBeijing was wary of upsurges of public discontent in Hong Kong. The Chinese government did not immediately comment after the resignation of five legislators, but it criticized the resignation plan in a statement afterwards, calling it a challenge to authority.\n\n"}
{"id": "1206605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1206605", "title": "Adaptive management", "text": "Adaptive management\n\nAdaptive management (AM), also known as adaptive resource management (ARM) or adaptive environmental assessment and management (AEAM), is a structured, iterative process of robust decision making in the face of uncertainty, with an aim to reducing uncertainty over time via system monitoring. In this way, decision making simultaneously meets one or more resource management objectives and, either passively or actively, accrues information needed to improve future management. Adaptive management is a tool which should be used not only to change a system, but also to learn about the system. Because adaptive management is based on a learning process, it improves long-run management outcomes. The challenge in using the adaptive management approach lies in finding the correct balance between gaining knowledge to improve management in the future and achieving the best short-term outcome based on current knowledge. This approach has more recently been employed in implementing international development programs.\n\nThere are a number of scientific and social processes which are vital components of adaptive management, including:\n\nThe achievement of these objectives requires an open management process which seeks to include past, present and future stakeholders. Adaptive management needs to at least maintain political openness, but usually aims to create it. Adaptive management must therefore be a scientific and social process. It must focus on the development of new institutions and institutional strategies in balance with scientific hypothesis and experimental frameworks (resilliance.org).\n\nAdaptive management can proceed as either passive or active adaptive management, depending on how learning takes place. Passive adaptive management values learning only insofar as it improves decision outcomes (i.e. passively), as measured by the specified utility function. In contrast, active adaptive management explicitly incorporates learning as part of the objective function, and hence, decisions which improve learning are valued over those which do not. In both cases, as new knowledge is gained, the models are updated and optimal management strategies are derived accordingly. Thus, while learning occurs in both cases, it is treated differently. Often, deriving actively adaptive policies is technically very difficult, which prevents it being more commonly applied.\n\nKey features of both passive and active adaptive management are:\n\nHowever, a number of process failures related to information feedback can prevent effective adaptive management decision making:\n\n\nThe use of adaptive management techniques can be traced back to peoples from ancient civilisations. For example, the Yap people of Micronesia have been using adaptive management techniques to sustain high population densities in the face of resource scarcity for thousands of years (Falanruw 1984). In using these techniques, the Yap people have altered their environment creating, for example, coastal mangrove depressions and seagrass meadows to support fishing and termite resistant wood (Stankey and Shinder 1997).\n\nThe origin of the adaptive management concept can be traced back to ideas of scientific management pioneered by Frederick Taylor in the early 1900s (Haber 1964). While the term \"adaptive management\" evolved in natural resource management workshops through decision makers, managers and scientists focussing on building simulation models to uncover key assumptions and uncertainties (Bormann \"et al.\" 1999)\n\nTwo ecologists at The University of British Columbia, C.S. Holling and C.J Walters further developed the adaptive management approach as they distinguished between passive and active adaptive management practice. Kai Lee, notable Princeton physicist, expanded upon the approach in the late 1970s and early 1980s while pursuing a post-doctorate degree at UC Berkeley. The approach was further developed at the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA) in Vienna, Austria, while C.S. Holling was director of the Institute. In 1992, Hilbourne described three learning models for federal land managers, around which adaptive management approaches could be developed, these are reactive, passive and active.\n\nAdaptive management has probably been most frequently applied in Yap, Australia and North America, initially applied in fishery management, but received more broad application in the 1990s and 2000s. One of the most successful applications of adaptive management has been in the area of waterfowl harvest management in North America, most notably for the mallard.\n\nAdaptive management in a conservation project and program context can trace its roots back to at least the early 1990s, with the establishment of the Biodiversity Support Program (BSP) in 1989. BSP was a USAID-funded consortium of WWF The Nature Conservancy (TNC), and World Resources Institute (WRI). Its Analysis and Adaptive Management Program sought to understand the conditions under which certain conservation strategies were most effective and to identify lessons learned across conservation projects. When BSP ended in 2001, TNC and Foundations of Success (FOS, a non-profit which grew out of BSP) continued to actively work in promoting adaptive management for conservation projects and programs. The approaches used included Conservation by Design (TNC) and Measures of Success (FOS).\n\nIn 2004, the Conservation Measures Partnership (CMP) – which includes several former BSP members – developed a common set of standards and guidelines for applying adaptive management to conservation projects and programs.\n\nApplying adaptive management in a conservation project or program involves the integration of project/program design, management, and monitoring to systematically test assumptions in order to adapt and learn. The three components of adaptive management in environmental practice are:\n\n\n\"Open Standards for the Practice of Conservation\" lays out five main steps to an adaptive management project cycle (see Figure 1). The \"Open Standards\" represent a compilation and adaptation of best practices and guidelines across several fields and across several organizations within the conservation community. Since the release of the initial \"Open Standards\" (updated in 2007 and 2013), thousands of project teams from conservation organizations (e.g., TNC, Rare, and WWF), local conservation groups, and donors alike have begun applying these \"Open Standards\" to their work. In addition, several CMP members have developed training materials and courses to help apply the Standards.\n\nSome recent write-ups of adaptive management in conservation include: wildlife protection (SWAP, 2008), forests ecosystem protection (CMER, 2010), coastal protection and restoration (LACPR, 2009), natural resource management (water, land and soil), species conservation especially, fish conservation from overfishing (FOS, 2007) and climate change (DFG, 2010). In addition, some other examples follow:\n\nThe concept of adaptive management is not restricted to natural resources or ecosystem management, as similar concepts have been applied to international development programming. This has often been a recognition to the \"wicked\" nature of many development challenges and the limits of traditional planning processes. One of the principal changes facing international development organizations is the need to be more flexible, adaptable and focused on learning. This is reflected in international development approaches such as Doing Development Differently, Politically Informed Programming and Problem Driven Iterative Adaptation.\n\nOne recent example of the use of adaptive management by international development donors is the planned Global Learning for Adaptive Management (GLAM) programme to support adaptive management in Department for International Development and USAID. The program is establishing a centre for learning about adaptive management to support the utilization and accessibility of adaptive management. In addition, donors have been focused on amending their own programmatic guidance to reflect the importance of learning within programs: for instance, USAID's recent focus in their ADS guidance on the importance of collaborating, learning and adapting. This is also reflected in Department for International Development's Smart Rules that provide the operating framework for their programs including the use of evidence to inform their decisions. There are a variety of tools used to operationalize adaptive management in programs, such as learning agendas.\n\nCollaborating, learning and adapting (CLA) is a concept related to the operationalizing of adaptive management in international development that describes a specific way of designing, implementing, adapting and evaluating programs. CLA involves three concepts:\n\nCLA integrates three closely connected concepts within the organizational theory literature: namely collaborating, learning and adapting. There is evidence of the benefits of collaborating internally within an organization and externally with organizations. Much of the production and transmission of knowledge—both explicit knowledge and tacit knowledge—occurs through collaboration. There is evidence for the importance of collaboration among individuals and groups for innovation, knowledge production, and diffusion—for example, the benefits of staff interacting with one another and transmitting knowledge. The importance of collaboration is closely linked to the ability of organizations to collectively learn from each other, a concept noted in the literature on learning organizations.\n\nCLA, an adaptive management practice, is being employed by implementing partners that receive funding from the federal government of the United States, but it is primarily a framework for internal change efforts that aim at incorporating collaboration, learning, and adaptation within the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) including its missions located around the world. CLA has been linked to a part of USAID's commitment to becoming a learning organization. CLA represents an approach to combine strategic collaboration, continuous learning, and adaptive management. A part of integrating the CLA approach is providing tools and resources, such as the Learning Lab, to staff and partner organizations. The CLA approach is detailed for USAID staff in the recently revised program policy guidance.\n\nAdaptive management as a systematic process for improving environmental management policies and practices is the traditional application however, the adaptive management framework can also be applied to other sectors seeking sustainability solutions such as business and community development. Adaptive management as a strategy emphasizes the need to change with the environment and to learn from doing. Adaptive management applied to ecosystems makes overt sense when considering ever changing environmental conditions. The flexibility and constant learning of an adaptive management approach is also a logical application for organizations seeking sustainability methodologies.\nBusinesses pursuing sustainability strategies would employ an adaptive management framework to ensure that the organization is prepared for the unexpected and geared for change. By applying an adaptive management approach the business begins to function as an integrated system adjusting and learning from a multi-faceted network of influences not just environmental but also, economic and social (Dunphy, Griffths, & Benn, 2007). The goal of any sustainable organization guided by adaptive management principals must be to engage in active learning to direct change towards sustainability (Verine, 2008). This \"learning to manage by managing to learn\" (Bormann BT, 1993) will be at the core of a sustainable business strategy.\n\nSustainable community development requires recognition of the relationship between environment, economics and social instruments within the community. An adaptive management approach to creating sustainable community policy and practice also emphasizes the connection and confluence of those elements. Looking into the cultural mechanisms which contribute to a community value system often highlights the parallel to adaptive management practices, \"with [an] emphasis on feedback learning, and its treatment of uncertainty and unpredictability\" (Berkes, Colding, & Folke, 2000). Often this is the result of indigenous knowledge and historical decisions of societies deeply rooted in ecological practices (Berkes, Colding, & Folke, 2000). By applying an adaptive management approach to community development the resulting systems can develop built in sustainable practice as explained by the Environmental Advisory Council (2002), \"active adaptive management views policy as a set of experiments designed to reveal processes that build or sustain resilience. It requires, and facilitates, a social context with flexible and open institutions and multi-level governance systems that allow for learning and increase adaptive capacity without foreclosing future development options\" (p. 1121).\n\nIn an ever-changing world, adaptive management appeals to many practices seeking sustainable solutions by offering a framework for decision making that proposes to support a sustainable future which, \"conserves and nurtures the diversity—of species, of human opportunity, of learning institutions and of economic options\"(The Environmental Advisory Council, 2002, p. 1121).\n\nIt is difficult to test the effectiveness of adaptive management in comparison to other management approaches. One challenge is that once a system is managed using one approach it is difficult to determine how another approach would have performed in exactly the same situation. One study tested the effectiveness of formal passive adaptive management in comparison to human intuition by having natural resource management students make decisions about how to harvest a hypothetical fish population in an online computer game. The students on average performed poorly in comparison to the computer programs implementing passive adaptive management.\n\nInformation and guidance on the entire adaptive management process is available from CMP members' websites and other online sources:\n\n"}
{"id": "17835768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17835768", "title": "Architecture Design and Assessment System", "text": "Architecture Design and Assessment System\n\nThe Architecture Design and Assessment System (ADAS) was a set of software programs offered by the Research Triangle Institute from the mid-1980s until the early 1990s.\n\nA petri net-like graph model of a system was graphically created. The hierarchical graphs were simulated to determine resource utilization and throughput. Functional simulation of the model could be realized by attaching C (programming language) or Ada (programming language) code to the nodes. This enabled dynamic resource assignment, timing, and priority.\n\nAn ADAS model consisted of nodes connected by directed arcs.\n\nFor abstract simulation a node represents a process (systems engineering) in the system that you are modeling. The readiness for execution or firing of this process requires that: its inputs are satisfied, space is available for its outputs, and its shared resource/hardware is available. During execution the node consumes its inputs, uses the resource for the prescribed duration, then produces its outputs.\n\nThe inputs and outputs of a process are represented by discrete tokens. These tokens flow along the arcs in the graph. If the maximum arc size is greater than one, then an arc would represent a buffer between system processes.\n\nTo refine the model of the system, a subgraph could be placed below the node to refine the behavior of that process.\n\nPhysical and behavioral properties were attached to nodes and arcs in the form of attributes. The attribute definition language allowed the computation of attributes from ancestor attributes and global values.\n\n"}
{"id": "53341083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53341083", "title": "Automated efficiency model", "text": "Automated efficiency model\n\nAn automated efficiency model (AEM) is a mathematical model that estimates a real estate property’s efficiency by using details specific to the property which are available publicly and/or housing characteristics which are aggregated over a given area such as a zip code. AEMs have some similarities to an automated valuation model (AVM) in terms of concept, advantages and disadvantages.\n\nAEMs calculate specific efficiencies such as location, water, energy or solar efficiency. The Council of Multiple Listing Services defines an AEM as, “any algorithm or scoring model that estimates the [efficiency] of a home without an on-site inspection. They are similar to Automated Valuation Models (AVMs), but are more reliant on public data such as square footage...and estimated energy usage.”\n\nMost AEMs calculate a property’s selected efficiency by analyzing available public information and may also apply proprietary data or formulas, and allow for a user such as a home owner to make additional inputs. Housing characteristics such as age of the home or square footage may be obtained by data providers such as those on this list of online real estate databases or a similar offerings. Estimates of energy usage may be available from published sources such as through the Residential Energy Consumption Survey by the Energy Information Administration.\n\nBy design, the AEM score output is provided as a preliminary comparison tool so the score of one property may be compared to other homes, against an average score for the area, etc. Primary users may vary from buyers and sellers to real estate agents and appraisers as they complete relevant comparisons. For example, REColorado, the multiple listing service covering the Denver metro area, presents a UtilityScore widget on homes for sale. Zillow publishes a Sun Number score on the home fact sheet so website visitors can compare the solar energy potential of prospective properties. Trulia has published a report using automated estimates from UtilityScore to present water, natural gas and electric rates into a single price per square foot by zip code.\n\nBeyond usage for consumer preliminary comparisons, usage of AEMs varies by industry. AEMs may also be used by solar installers, home improvement contractors, efficiency inspectors, and mortgage lenders.\n\nIn the photovoltaics industry, installers use Sun Number to reduce the soft costs associated with motivating consumers to invest in solar systems and in recording property specifications to create quotes. The U.S. Department of Energy has found that Sun Number eliminates 7–10 days from the quotation process when solar suitability is determined digitally and eliminates the need for an onsite inspection.\n\nAEMs have been used in the mortgage industry to support a niche loan product called a Location Efficient Mortgage (LEM). During underwriting, an AEM such as the H+T Affordability Index is used to calculate the location efficient value\n\nAccording to National Mortgage Professional Magazine AEMs may one day be incorporated into loan underwriting as well, “Since utilities are as big or bigger part of home expenses than even real estate taxes, we may see [estimated utility usage] begin to be factored into underwriting.”\n\nAEMs generate a score for a specific property based on both publicly available housing characteristics about the subject property as well as mathematical modeling. AEMs are technology-driven scores without an onsite inspection or human assessment. For more accurate information unique to a specific property an onsite inspection such as an energy audit is required.\n\nDetailed information on the data accessed to calculate an AEM, the modeling formulas and algorithms are generally not published. A summary of general information is listed in the table below:\n\nAs shown in the section above, AEMs tend to rely on public information rather than information which is private to the resident such as actual utility bills. Utility bills can vary based on the occupancy and personal property within a structure. The public information used in AEMs is relatively static as it is focused on details of the structure, location and/or mechanical systems and therefore tends to reflect the real property transferred during a real estate transaction.\n\nAccording to the Council of Multiple Listing Services advantages are, “AEMs provide consumers with a quick comparison of all properties across a specified market. Since most focus on the attached systems and structure, they are only meant to reflect the efficiency of the real property.”\n\nAccording to the Council of Multiple Listing Services advantages are, “AEMs are dependent on data used, the assumptions made, and the model methodology. Since models and methodologies differ and no on-site inspections are performed, accuracy may vary among scoring systems.”\n"}
{"id": "12913290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12913290", "title": "Basic category", "text": "Basic category\n\nIn cognitive psychology, a basic category is a category at a particular level of the category inclusion hierarchy (i.e., a particular level of generality) that is preferred by humans in learning and memory tasks. The term is associated with the work of psychologist Eleanor Rosch, who demonstrated basic category preferences in a number of classic experiments.\n\nIn 2016, Tom Leinster published the Basic Category Theory which seeks for universal properties that govern in mathematics.\n"}
{"id": "8938925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8938925", "title": "Black Gold (2006 film)", "text": "Black Gold (2006 film)\n\nBlack Gold is a 2006 documentary film that follows the efforts of an Ethiopian coffee-union manager as he travels the world to obtain a better price for his workers' coffee beans. The film was directed and produced by Marc James Francis and Nick Francis from Speakit Films, and co-produced by Christopher Hird. It premiered at the 2006 Sundance Film Festival.\n\nThe film focuses on the coffee growers of the Oromia Region of southern and western Ethiopia, the birthplace of coffee. It follows Tadesse Meskela, the General Manager of the Oromia Coffee Farmers Cooperative Union, as he visits coffee-growing regions in Sidamo and Oromia (including the Kilenso Mokonisa Cooperative in the Bule Hora woreda in the Borena Zone of the Oromia Region), as well as a coffee processing center, a coffee auction house, and his union's headquarters in Addis Ababa. He also travels to England and the United States in an effort to promote Ethiopian coffee by eliminating the numerous middlemen. There is also a scene where coffee farmers pray to God for a higher price, which was filmed at the Negele Gorbitu Cooperative, located near Irgachefe in the Abaya woreda of the Borena Zone. The Ethiopian coffee farmers speak about their lives, with one explaining that he is cutting down his coffee plants and planting \"khat\" (a plant containing cathinone, an amphetamine-like stimulant) instead, due to the low price he is getting for coffee because of the explosion in the number of coffee farmers across the globe, and the comparatively higher price he can get for \"khat\".\n\nThe film also includes footage of the New York Board of Trade, a commodity-trading floor in New York City, where the \"C\" international benchmark price of coffee is set each business day based on supply and demand, and explores the effects that these international prices (which by 2006 were at an all-time low) have on Ethiopian coffee growers. Other footage was shot at the first Starbucks and the World Barista Championship at the 2005 Specialty Coffee Association of America conference in Seattle; and at a café and the Illy coffee company in Trieste, Italy. These scenes stand in stark contrast to the footage of the impoverished conditions faced by the Ethiopian coffee farmers and their families.\n\nIn July 2003, Nick Francis and Marc James Francis travelled to Ethiopia and started making the film. The meeting with Tadesse Meskela, the manager of Oromia Coffee Farmers Co-operative Union, was a decisive moment in the production of the film. The inspiring passion and determination of Tadesse, along with his continuous efforts to improve the lives of the farmers he represents, made Nick Francis and Marc James Francis decide much further in the production process to centre the film narrative around Tadesse's journey, his character functioning as a guide into the coffee world. The Ethiopian footage was filmed on two occasions (in 2003 and 2005), for six weeks each time.\n\nAfter the first shoot in Ethiopia, the crew flew to Cancun to document the meetings of the World Trade Organization, where pivotal decisions that affect Africa's economy and development were being made in setting the trade rules and where the struggle for fairer international trade rules was played out. Unprecedented, that year developing countries refused to be forced into signing agreements that were against their interests, and the WTO talks completely collapsed. After the team's return to the UK, they spent the following months developing a rough cut of \"Black Gold\". During these months, the direction of the film took shape, along with the rest of the necessary shoots meant to develop the thrust of the narrative. In 2005, the team returned to Ethiopia for further shoots.\n\nAlthough Starbucks, Sara Lee, Procter & Gamble, Kraft, and Nestlé—the world's largest sellers of coffee—are mentioned in the film, all five companies declined invitations to be interviewed for the film. By the end of 2005, the final cut of \"Black Gold\" was done and officially premiered during the 2006‘s edition of Sundance Film Festival.\n\nAndreas Kapsalis, whom Marc James Francis and Nick Francis met during the Sundance Documentary Composers Lab, wrote the final soundtrack. In doing so, he used in part Mathew Coldrick's Ethiopian instrumental samples, recorded from Ethiopia. Joe Henson, Kunja Chatterton, and Mathew Herbert also contributed to the soundtrack.\n\n\n\"Black Gold\" has been released in the cinema and on DVD in over 40 countries: in the UK (Dogwoof), US (California Newsreel), Canada (Mongral Media), Australia (Madman), Germany, Spain, Netherlands, Scandinavia, and Japan. The film has also been broadcast on TV stations around the world including US (ITVS: Independent Lens), UK (Channel 4), Japan (NHK), Israel (DBS/YES), New Zealand (Documentary Channel), South Africa (SABC), South Korea (EBS), and the Middle East (Al-jazeera). It continues to be screened around the world.\n\n\"Black Gold\" went on to be seen in over 60 international film festivals including London, Rome, Berlin, Melbourne, Hong Kong, and Rio de Janeiro and has secured major broadcast deals around the world including Channel 4 (UK), PBS/Independent Lens (US), Documentary Channel (Canada), NHK (Japan), and Al-jazeera (Middle East).\n\n\"Black Gold\" has attracted wide coverage in the media including features on CNN, BBC World, BBC News 24, Sky News, Bloomberg, The Observer, The Times, The Daily Telegraph, New York Times, LA Times, The Washington Post, and South China Morning Post.\n\nIn the first few weeks after the premiere, the film helped to generate donations approximately up to $25,000. The dilapidated school featured in the film was built.\n\nTadesse Meskela, the main character in \"Black Gold\", was able to increase the market price for his cooperative union's coffee. Tadesse Meskela was invited to 10 Downing Street, where he took his message directly to Tony Blair.\n\nAfter seeing the film, the UN have invited Tadesse to New York to do a presentation about his co-operatives at the 46th Session of the Commission for Social Development.\n\n\"Black Gold\" was screened at the World Bank and European Union, as part of debates about trade policy and development. The Ethiopian ambassadors based at Berlin, Washington, D.C., and London attended screenings.\n\n\"Black Gold\" was the first film to receive funding from BritDoc.\n\nSince the first showing of \"Black Gold\" during Sundance, Starbucks sent people to screenings of the film in what has been called by one journalist \"going on a charm offensive\". As the film became more and more popular, Starbucks flew Tadesse and four other African coffee producers to their Seattle headquarters for a weekend conference, which was seen by many as a PR stunt. Further, just before the film premiered at the London Film Festival in October 2006, a memo received by Starbucks staff from the headquarters leaked to the \"Black Gold forum\". The internal memo was sent out to inform all Starbucks employees that \"Black Gold\" was \"incomplete and inaccurate\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2992104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2992104", "title": "Brawling (legal definition)", "text": "Brawling (legal definition)\n\nBrawling (probably connected with German language \"brüllen\", to roar, shout), in law, was the offence of quarrelling, or creating a disturbance in a church or churchyard. Brawling was covered in ecclesiastic courts until 1860. It has rarely been prosecuted since then.\n\nDuring the early stages of the Reformation in England religious controversy too often became converted into actual disturbance, and the ritual lawlessness of the clergy very frequently provoked popular violence. To repress these disturbances the Brawling Act 1551 was passed in 1551, by which it was enacted: \"that if any person shall, by words only, quarrel, chide or brawl in any church or churchyard, it shall be lawful for the ordinary of the place where the same shall be done and proved by two lawful witnesses, to suspend any person so offending, if he be a layman, from the entrance of the church, and if he be a clerk, from the ministration of his office, for so long as the said ordinary shall think meet, according to the fault.\"\n\nAn Act of 1553 added the punishment of imprisonment until the party should repent. The Brawling Act 1551 was partly repealed in 1828 and wholly repealed as regards laymen by the Ecclesiastical Courts Jurisdiction Act 1860. Under that Act, which applies to Ireland as well as to England, persons guilty of riotous, violent or indecent behaviour, in churches and chapels of the Church of England or Ireland, or in any chapel of any religious denomination, or in England in any place of religious worship duly certified, or in churchyards or burial-grounds, were liable on conviction before two justices to a penalty of not more than £5, or imprisonment for any term not exceeding two months. This enactment applied to clergy as well as to laity, and a clergyman of the Church of England convicted under it could also be dealt with under the Clergy Discipline Act 1892 (\"Girt v. Fillingham\", 1901, L.R. Prob. 176).\n\nWhen Mr J. Kensit during an ordination service in St Paul's Cathedral \"objected\" to one of the candidates for ordination, on grounds which did not constitute an impediment or notable crime within the meaning of the ordination service, he was held to have unlawfully disturbed the bishop of London in the conduct of the service, and to be liable to conviction under the Act of 1860 (\"Kensit\" v. \"Dean and Chapter of St Paul's\", 1905, L.R. 2 K.B. 249). The public worship of Protestant Dissenters, Roman Catholics and Jews in England had before 1860 been protected by a series of statutes beginning with the Toleration Act of 1689, and ending with the Liberty of Religious Worship Act 1855. These enactments, though not repealed, were for practical purposes superseded by the summary remedy given by the Act of 1860. In Scotland disturbance of public worship is punishable as a breach of the peace (\"Dougall\" v. \"Dykes\", 1861, 4 Irvine 101).\n\nIn British possessions abroad, interference with religious worship was usually dealt with by legislation, and not as a common-law offence. In India it was an offence voluntarily to cause disturbance to any assembly lawfully engaged in the performance of religious worship or religious ceremonies (Penal Code, s. 296). Under the Queensland Criminal Code of 1899 (s. 207) penalties were imposed on persons who wilfully and without lawful justification or excuse (the proof of which lies on them) disquiet or disturb any meeting of persons lawfully assembled for religious worship, or assault any forces lawfully officiating at such meeting, or any of the persons there assembled.\n\nIn the United States disturbance of religious worship is treated as an offence under the common law, which is in many states supplemented by legislation (see Bishop, \"Amer. Crim. Law,\" 8th ed. 1892, vol. i. s. 542, vol. ii. ss. 303-305; California Penal Code, s. 302; \"Revised Laws of Massachusetts\", 1902, chap. 212, s. 30.).\n\nIn 1998, Peter Tatchell of OutRage! was prosecuted for interrupting the Archbishop of Canterbury's Easter sermon with a short gay rights speech. The 1860 legislation (which transferred jurisdiction away from the ecclesiastic courts) was used to try him; his defense focused on the Human Rights Act 1998. He was convicted and fined £18.60 (referring to the 1860 legislation) plus court costs.\n\n"}
{"id": "7286281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7286281", "title": "Charles Martin (American football)", "text": "Charles Martin (American football)\n\nCharles Martin (August 31, 1959 – January 26, 2005) was a professional American football player, who is best known for his career with the Green Bay Packers, and in particular for causing a season-ending injury to Chicago Bears starting quarterback Jim McMahon on November 23, 1986. Martin also played for the Birmingham Stallions of the USFL, the Edmonton Eskimos of the CFL, and the Houston Oilers and Atlanta Falcons in the NFL.\n\nMartin attended Cherokee High School in Canton, Georgia and was nicknamed \"Too Mean\" for his tendency to pile on ball carriers after the whistle. He originally dropped out of school at age 14 but then rejoined to play football. He originally signed to play college football at Western Carolina, but followed assistant coach Joe D'Alessandris to Livingston University. He then went on to play at The University of West Alabama (then known as Livingston), and was a Division II All-American. Martin was All-Gulf South Conference two years at Livingston, and was the Defensive Player of the Year in 1982.\n\nMartin began his pro football career with the Birmingham Stallions of the USFL in 1983, but was cut after his first season.\n\nMartin was signed by the Edmonton Eskimos of the Canadian Football League in early 1984 but was cut before he could make it through a season.\n\nMartin immediately jumped into a starting role once he was signed by the Green Bay Packers. He signed with the Packers after he was not selected in the Supplemental Draft. \n\nDuring pre-game warm-ups, Martin displayed a white hand-towel with a list of five Bears offensive players' numbers: 9 for Jim McMahon, 34 for Walter Payton, 83 for Willie Gault, 63 for Jay Hilgenberg and 29 for Dennis Gentry. Martin wore the towel during the game. He allegedly claimed that it was a hit-list. After Bears quarterback Jim McMahon threw an interception, Martin grabbed him from behind and body-slammed him shoulder first to the ground. Replays showed that Martin hit McMahon at least two seconds after the pass was thrown, well after McMahon was out of the play. McMahon landed full force on his previously injured shoulder, a situation exacerbated by Soldier Field's artificial turf surface of the time—and was knocked out for the rest of the season. Martin was ejected from the game by referee Jerry Markbreit and suspended for two games. Markbreit later said that Martin complained about the ejection until the threat of letting Bears players come after him was spoken. After the game, the Packers defensive coordinator defended Martin, saying \"We tell people that if we intercept a pass, go get anybody near you.\" This was the first multi-game suspension for an on-field incident in modern NFL history, and would remain the longest suspension for an on-field incident until Albert Haynesworth of the Tennessee Titans was suspended five games for stomping on the head of Dallas Cowboys center Andre Gurode in 2006.\n\nMartin played for the Packers from 1984–1987. He was cut early in the 1987 season after being implicated in a Green Bay bar fight.\n\nMartin played for the Oilers in the latter part of the 1987 season. In a game against the Pittsburgh Steelers, Martin speared Steelers running back Earnest Jackson, sparking a rivalry between Oilers coach Jerry Glanville and Steelers coach Chuck Noll.\n\nHe closed out his career with the Falcons in 1988, the only season in which he did not start a game.\n\nMartin was suspended two games in 1986 due to an incident at a bar. He later went into alcohol abuse treatment, and divorced both of his wives. He was arrested for disorderly conduct in 1987 for throwing an egg at the car of an NFL replacement player. Martin died in 2005 at age 45 in Houston due to complications from kidney failure.\n\n"}
{"id": "7366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7366", "title": "Chastity", "text": "Chastity\n\nChastity is one of the seven virtues and it is defined as refraining from deviant sexual conduct. Chastity is usually defined within the moral standards and guidelines of a culture, civilization or religion. The term is closely associated (and can be used interchangeably) with sexual abstinence, especially in the context of premarital and extramarital sex.\n\nThe words \"chaste\" and \"chastity\" stem from the Latin adjective \"castus\" (\"pure\"). The words entered the English language around the middle of the 13th century. At that time, they meant slightly different things. \"Chaste\" meant \"virtuous or pure from unlawful sexual intercourse\" (referring to extramarital sex),\nwhile \"chastity\" meant \"virginity\". Not until the late 16th century did the two words come to have the same basic meaning as a related adjective and noun.\n\nFor many Muslims and Christians, acts of sexual nature are restricted to marriage. For unmarried persons, chastity is identified with sexual abstinence. Sexual acts outside or apart from marriage, such as adultery, fornication, and prostitution, are considered sinful.\n\nIn many Christian traditions, chastity is synonymous with sexual purity. Chastity means not having any sexual relations before marriage. It also means fidelity to husband or wife during marriage. In Catholic morality, chastity is placed opposite the deadly sin of lust, and is classified as one of seven virtues. The moderation of sexual desires is required to be virtuous. Reason, will, and desire can harmoniously work together to do what is good.\n\nIn marriage, the spouses commit to a lifelong relationship that excludes sexual intimacy with other persons. After marriage, a third form of chastity, often called \"vidual chastity\", is expected of a woman while she is in mourning for her late husband. For example, Anglican Bishop Jeremy Taylor defined 5 rules in \"Holy Living\" (1650), including abstaining from marrying \"so long as she is with child by her former husband\" and \"within the year of mourning\".\n\nThe particular ethical system may not prescribe each of these. For example, Roman Catholics view sex within marriage as chaste, but prohibit the use of artificial contraception as an offense against chastity, seeing contraception as unnatural, contrary to God's will and design of human sexuality. Many Anglican communities allow for artificial contraception, seeing the restriction of family size by artificial contraception as possibly not contrary to God's will. A stricter view is held by the Shakers, who prohibit marriage (and sexual intercourse under any circumstances) as a violation of chastity. The Catholic Church has set up various rules regarding clerical celibacy, while most Protestant communities allow clergy to marry.\n\nCelibacy is required of monastics—monks, nuns and friars—even in a rare system of double cloisters, in which husbands could enter the (men's) monastery while their wives entered a (women's) sister monastery. Required celibacy among the clergy is a relatively recent practice: it became Church policy at the Second Lateran Council in 1139. It was not uniformly enforced among the clergy until 200 years later. Eastern Catholic priests are permitted to marry, provided they do so before ordination and outside monastic life.\n\n\"Vows of chastity\" can also be taken by laypersons, either as part of an organised religious life (such as Roman Catholic Beguines and Beghards in the past) or on an individual basis: as a voluntary act of devotion, or as part of an ascetic lifestyle (often devoted to contemplation), or both. Some protestant religious communities, such as the Bruderhof, take vows of chastity as part of the church membership process.\n\nThe voluntary aspect has led it to being included among the main counsels of perfection.\n\nChastity is a central and pivotal concept in Roman Catholic praxis. Chastity's importance in traditional Roman Catholic teaching stems from the fact that it is regarded as essential in maintaining and cultivating the unity of body with spirit and thus the integrity of the human being. It is also regarded as fundamental to the practise of the Catholic life because it involves an \"apprenticeship in self-mastery\". By attaining mastery over one's passions, reason, will, and desire can harmoniously work together to do what is good.\n\nIn The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS, not evangelical church), chastity is very important, quoting:\n\n\"Physical intimacy between husband and wife is a beautiful and sacred part of God's plan for His children. It is an expression of love within marriage and allows husband and wife to participate in the creation of life. God has commanded that this sacred power be expressed only between a man and a woman who are legally married. The law of chastity applies to both men and women. It includes strict abstinence from sexual relations before marriage and complete fidelity and loyalty to one's spouse after marriage.\n\n\"The law of chastity requires that sexual relations be reserved for marriage between a man and a woman.\n\n\"In addition to reserving sexual intimacy for marriage, we obey the law of chastity by controlling our thoughts, words, and actions. Jesus Christ taught,\"Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery: but I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart\" (Matthew 5:27–28).\"\n\nLDS teaching also includes that sexual expression within marriage is an important dimension of spousal bonding apart from, but not necessarily avoiding its procreative result.\n\nChastity is mandatory in Islam. Sex outside legitimacy is prohibited, for both men and women whether married or unmarried.\n\nThe most famous personal example of chastity in the Quran is Virgin Mary (Mariam) :\n\n\"And [mention] the one who guarded her chastity, so We blew into her [garment] through Our angel [Gabriel], and We made her and her son a sign for the worlds.\" (21 :91)\n\n\"And she took, in seclusion from them, a screen. Then We sent to her Our Angel, and he represented himself to her as a well-proportioned man.She said, \"Indeed, I seek refuge in the Most Merciful from you, [so leave me], if you should be fearing of Allah .\"He said, \"I am only the messenger of your Lord to give you [news of] a pure boy.\"She said, \"How can I have a boy while no man has touched me and I have not been unchaste?\"\" (19:17-20)\n\nExtramarital sex is forbidden and the Quran says:\n\n\"And do not approach unlawful sexual intercourse. Indeed, it is ever an immorality and is evil as a way.\" (17:32)\n\n\"And those who do not invoke with Allah another deity or kill the soul which Allah has forbidden [to be killed], except by right, and do not commit unlawful sexual intercourse. And whoever should do that will meet a penalty.Multiplied for him is the punishment on the Day of Resurrection, and he will abide therein humiliated -Except for those who repent, believe and do righteous work. For them Allah will replace their evil deeds with good. And ever is Allah Forgiving and Merciful.\" (25:68-70)\n\nThe injunctions and forbiddings in Islam apply equally to men and women. The legal punishment for adultery is equal for men and women. Social hypocrisy in many societies over history had led to a double standard when considering sin committed by men versus sin committed by women. Society tended to be more lenient and permissive towards men forgiving men for sins not forgivable when women do them. At the root of the contemporary wave of free sex for both sexes was apparently to establish equality and remove discrimination between man and woman. Instead of calling for equal cleanliness the call was for equal dirt. Not so in Islam. and in a list of commendable deeds the Quran says:\n\n\"Indeed, the Muslim men and Muslim women, the believing men and believing women, the obedient men and obedient women, the truthful men and truthful women, the patient men and patient women, the humble men and humble women, the charitable men and charitable women, the fasting men and fasting women, the men who guard their private parts and the women who do so, and the men who remember Allah often and the women who do so - for them Allah has prepared forgiveness and a great reward.\" (33:35)\n\nBecause the sex desire is usually attained before a man is financially capable of marriage, the love to God and mindfulness of Him should be sufficient motive for chastity:\n\n\"But let them who find not [the means for] marriage abstain [from sexual relations] until Allah enriches them from His bounty. And those who seek a contract [for eventual emancipation] from among whom your right hands possess - then make a contract with them if you know there is within them goodness and give them from the wealth of Allah which He has given you. And do not compel your slave girls to prostitution, if they desire chastity, to seek [thereby] the temporary interests of worldly life. And if someone should compel them, then indeed, Allah is [to them], after their compulsion, Forgiving and Merciful.\" (24:33) The prophet's prescription to the youth was:\n\nThose of you who own the means should marry for this should keep their eyes uncraving and their chastity secure. Those who don't, may practise fasting for it curbs desire. \" (Ibn Massoud)\n\nChastity is an attitude and a way of life. In Islam it is both a personal and a social value. A Muslim society should not condone relations entailing or conducive to sexual license. Social patterns and practices bent on flaring up the sexual desire are frowned upon by Islam be the means permissive ideologies, pruritic art or neglect of moral upbringing. Personal freedoms should never be taught as the freedom to challenge God's injunctions or trespass over the limits He drew.\n\nChastity is highly prized in the Bahá'í Faith. Similar to other Abrahamic religions, Bahá'í teachings call for the restriction of sexual activity to that between a wife and husband in Bahá'í marriage, and discourage members from using pornography or engaging in sexually explicit recreational activities. The concept of chastity is extended to include avoidance of alcohol and mind-altering drugs, profanity, and gaudy or immoderate attire.\n\nHinduism's view on premarital sex is rooted in its concept of Ashrama (stage) or the stages of life. The first of these stages, known as \"Brahmacharya,\" roughly translates as chastity. Celibacy and chastity are considered the appropriate behavior for both male and female students during this stage, which precedes the stage of the married householder (Grihastha). Sanyasis and Hindu monks or Sadhus are also celibate as part of their ascetic discipline.\n\nIn Sikhism, premarital or extra-marital sex is strictly forbidden. However, it is encouraged to marry and live as a family unit to provide and nurture children for the perpetual benefit of creation (as opposed to sannyasa or living as a monk, which was, and remains, a common spiritual practice in India). A Sikh is encouraged not to live as a recluse, beggar, monk, nun, celibate, or in any similar vein.\n\nCelibacy is a must for all Jain monks and nuns. Chastity (Bhramacharya) is one of the five major vows of Jainism. The general Jain code of ethics requires that one do no harm to any living being in thought, action, or word. Adultery is clearly a violation of a moral agreement with one's spouse, and therefore forbidden, and fornication too is seen as a violation of the state of chastity.\n\nThe teachings of Buddhism include the Noble Eightfold Path, comprising a division called right action. Under the Five Precepts ethical code, Upāsaka and Upāsikā lay followers should abstain from sexual misconduct, while Bhikkhu and Bhikkhuni monastics should practice strict chastity.\n\nThe Five Precepts of the Daoist religion include No Sexual Misconduct, which is interpreted as prohibiting extramarital sex for lay practitioners and marriage or sexual intercourse for monks and nuns.\n\n"}
{"id": "1881621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1881621", "title": "Chokhmah", "text": "Chokhmah\n\nChokmâh ( ,חכמה ISO 259 or \"khok-maw) is the Biblical Hebrew word rendered as \"wisdom\" in English Bible versions (LXX \"sophia\", Vulgate ').\n\nThe word occurs 149 times in the Masoretic text of the Hebrew Bible\nThe Talmud (Shabbat 31a) describes knowledge of the Talmudic order of Kodshim as a high level of wisdom, \"chokhmah\".\n\nIt is cognate with the Arabic word for \"wisdom\", \"ḥikma\" (Semitic root ). \nAdjectival \"wise\" is used as a honorific, as in \"Talmid Chacham\" (lit. \"student of a sage\") for a Torah scholar, or \"hakham Bashi\" for a chief rabbi.\n\nIn the Kabbalah, \"Chokhmah\" is the uppermost of the sephirot of the right line (\"kav yamin\", the \"Pillar of Mercy\") in the Tree of Life. \nIt is to the bottom right of Keter, with Binah across from it. Under it are the \"sephirot\" of Chesed and Netzach. It commonly has four paths going to Keter, Binah, Tifereth, and Chesed. (Some kabbalists attribute a path between Chokhmah and Gevurah.)\n\nProverbs personifies Divine Wisdom, which existed before the world was made, revealed God, and acted as God's agent in creation ( cf. 3:19; ; ). Wisdom dwelt with God (; cf. ; ) and being the exclusive property of God was as such inaccessible to human beings (). It was God who \"found\" wisdom () and gave her to Israel: \"He hath found out all the way of knowledge, and hath given it unto Jacob his servant, and to Israel his beloved. Afterward did he shew himself upon earth, and conversed with men.\" (; ). As a female figure (Sir. 1:15; Wis. 7:12), wisdom addressed human beings (Prov. 1:20–33; 8:1–9:6) inviting to her feast those who are not yet wise (Prov. 9:1-6). \nWisdom 7:22b-8:1 is a famous passage describing Divine Wisdom, including the passage:\n\"For she is the breath of the power of God, and a pure influence flowing from the glory of the Almighty: therefore can no defiled thing fall into her. For she is the brightness of the everlasting light, the unspotted mirror of the power of God, and the image of his goodness. And being but one, she can do all things: and remaining in herself, she maketh all things new: and in all ages entering into holy souls, she maketh them friends of God, and prophets.\" (). \nSolomon, as the archetypal wise person, fell in love with Wisdom: \"I loved her, and sought her out from my youth, I desired to make her my spouse, and I was a lover of her beauty.\" ().\n\nAccording to the Bahir: \"The second (utterance) is wisdom, as is written: 'Y-H-W-H acquired me at the beginning of His way, before His deeds of old' (Prov 8:22). And there is no 'beginning' but wisdom.\"\n\nChokhmah, the second of the ten sefirot, is the first power of conscious intellect within Creation, and the first point of 'real' existence, since Keter represents emptiness. According to the book of Job, \"Wisdom comes from nothingness\". This point is both infinitely small, and yet encompasses the whole of being, but it remains incomprehensible until it is given shape and form in Binah.\n\nThe name of God associated with Chokhmah is Yah.\n\nChokhmah appears in the configuration of the \"sefirot\" at the top of the right axis, and corresponds in the \"tzelem Elokim\" (\"the Divine image\") to the right eye, or right hemisphere of the brain.\n\nIn its fully articulated form, Chokhmah possesses two \"partzufim\" (\"faces\" or \"features\"): the higher of these is referred to as \"Abba Ila'ah\" (\"the higher father\"), whereas the lower is referred to as Yisrael Saba (\"Israel, the Elder\"). These two \"partzufim\" are referred to jointly as \"Abba\" (\"father\").\n\nChokhmah is associated in the soul with the power of intuitive insight, flashing lightning-like across consciousness. The \"partzuf\" of \"Abba Ila'ah\" is associated with the power to spontaneously extract such insight from the superconscious realm, whereas the \"partzuf\" of \"Yisrael Saba\" is associated with the power to subsequently direct it into consciousness.\n\nThe \"wisdom\" of Chokhmah also implies the ability to look deeply at some aspect of reality and abstract its conceptual essence till one succeeds in uncovering its underlying axiomatic truth. These seeds of truth can then be conveyed to the companion power of Binah for the sake of intellectual analysis and development.\n\nChokhmah is the primary (\"beginning\") force in the creative process, Creativity, as it is said: \"You have made them all with Chokhmah.\" (Psalms 104:24) The first word of the Torah in Genesis, \"Breishit\" means \"In the beginning (God created the heavens and the earth)\", is translated (Targum Yonatan) as \"With Chokhmah (God created…).\"\n\nChokhmah is also called Fear, 'because it has no measure of boundary, and therefore the mind does not have the power to grasp it'. The book of Job states 'Behold the fear of God is wisdom, and to depart from evil is understanding' (Job 28:28).\n\nIn the array of sefirot in three columns (\"gimel kavim\"), Chokmah is situated at the top of the right column, and corresponds to the right hemisphere of the brain. There are several aspects of Chokhmah:\n\nThe word Chokhmah itself may be broken into two words -- \"koach\" (\"potential\") and \"ma\" (\"what is\"). Thus, Chokhmah means \"the potential of what is\", or, \"the potential to be.\" This aspect of Chokhmah describes the state of Chokhmah in relation to the sefira of Keter. As Chokhmah emanates from Keter, the first dawning of the \"Infinite Light\", it \"appears\" in an obscure and undefined state that is a virtual non-being. Thus the verse states, \"and Chokhmah emerges from nothingness\" (Job 28:12, see Zohar II, 121a, Zohar III, 290a, commentaries). The light of the Ein Sof becomes unified in the world of \"Atziluth\" through clothing itself first in the sefira of Chokhmah. In the soul, Chokhmah is associated with the power of intuitive insight.\n\nIn the Zohar Chokhmah is the primordial point which shines forth from the will of God and thus, is the starting point of Creation. All things are still undifferentiated at this point and only become intelligible at Binah.\n\nAccording to the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, the name of God associated with Chokmah is Jehovah, the archangel that presides over it is Raziel, the order of angels that reside in it are the Ophanim (the wheels), the Heaven of Assiah associated with it is called Mazloth, implying the fulfillment of destiny, and the mundane chakra associated with it is the Zodiac.\n\nIn Aleister Crowley's \"Liber 777\", Chokhma is represented as The Four twos of the Tarot, Illuminating, Thoth, Vishnu, Joy, Odin, Uranus, Athena, God the Father, Man, Amaranth, Lingam, Hashish, Phosphorus, Musk, and Yang (not a complete list).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24272141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24272141", "title": "Composite bar chart", "text": "Composite bar chart\n\nComposite bar charts are bar charts where each bar displays multiple data points stacked in a single row or column. This may, for instance, take the form of uniform height bars charting a time series with internal stacked colours indicating the percentage participation of a sub-type of data. Another example would be a time series displaying total numbers, with internal colors indicating participation in the total by sub-types.\n\n"}
{"id": "34967526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34967526", "title": "Conditioned emotional response", "text": "Conditioned emotional response\n\nThe term conditioned emotional response \"(CER)\" can refer to a specific learned behavior or a procedure commonly used in classical or Pavlovian conditioning research. It may also be called \"conditioned suppression\" or \"conditioned fear response (CFR).\" It is an \"emotional response\" that results from classical conditioning, usually from the association of a relatively neutral stimulus with a painful or fear-inducing unconditional stimulus. As a result, the formerly neutral stimulus elicits fear. For example, if seeing a dog (a neutral stimulus) is paired with the pain of being bitten by the dog (unconditioned stimulus), seeing a dog may become a conditioned stimulus that elicits fear (conditioned response).\n\nIn 1920 John B. Watson and Rosalie Rayner demonstrated such fear conditioning in the Little Albert experiment. They started with a 9-month boy called “Albert”, who was unemotional but was made to cry by the loud noise (unconditioned stimulus) of a hammer striking a steel bar. Albert initially showed no fear of a white rat (neutral stimulus), but after the sight of the rat had been accompanied five times by the loud noise, he cried and tried to escape the rat, showing that the rat had become a conditioned stimulus for fear. Although the Watson and Rayner work with Little Albert clearly falls under the broad umbrella of \"conditioned fear\" they did not use the term CER and thought they were applying more general conditioning principles to human behavior.\n\nIn 1941 B.F. Skinner and William Kaye Estes were the first to use the term \"CER\" and demonstrated the phenomenon with rats.\nThey trained food-deprived rats to lever-press (operant conditioning) for food pellets, maintained on a variable interval (VI) schedule of reinforcement. Periodically, a tone was presented, for a brief amount of time, which co-terminated with electric shock to the metal floor (classical delay conditioning). The rats, upon receipt of the first shock, displayed the expected unconditional responses to the shock (e.g., jumping, squealing, urinating, etc.), however with subsequent presentations of the tone-shock trials, those responses habituated somewhat. The largest change in behavior occurred during the time the tone was presented. That is, lever-pressing during the tone reduced to near zero levels. Given that the tone-shock pairings were likely sufficient to produce classical conditioning, Estes and Skinner hypothesized that the tone elicited fear that interfered or interrupted ongoing operant behavior. In a sense, the now CS (tone) \"paralyzed in fear\" the rat. Note that the suppression of lever-pressing was robust, even though the operant, lever-press - food contingency was not altered at all. This experiment is critical in experimental psychology for it demonstrated that the interaction of classical and operant conditioning contingency could be powerful in altering behavior. This work sparked a number of experiments on this interaction, resulting in important experimental and theoretical contributions on autoshaping, negative automaintenance, and potentiated feeding, to name a few.\n\nMore importantly, the CER procedure solved a serious experimental problem in classical conditioning. In Pavlov's original demonstration of classical conditioning, he used a backward conditioning arrangement as the control condition. Briefly, in that procedure, the dogs experienced the same number of US presentations (food) and the same number of CS presentations (metronome ticking) as the experimental groups, but the timing of the CS and US presentations were reversed. The US preceded the CS, rather than the other way around. In the backward conditioning control procedure popular with Pavlov, his dogs did not salivate to the presentation of the CS, in contrast to those that received forward conditioning. However, the dogs did learn something - the presentation of the metronome predicted the absence of the food. This phenomenon we now call \"conditioned inhibition.\" However, since Pavlov was studying conditioned excitation, by measuring drops of saliva, he could not experimentally measure the inhibition of salivation. There was a floor effect as the dogs could not salivate below 0 drops of saliva. Thus, the lack of salivation by Pavlov's dogs led him to conclude that no conditioning resulted, however, he could not measure conditioning. The CER procedure obviates this problem because conditioning is typically measured with a \"suppression ratio\", the ratio of responding during the CS period relative to a period of equal length but without the CS (usually immediately prior to the presentation of the CS). A measure of 0.5 indicates no conditioning, while measures that deviate from 0.5 reflect effective conditioning, relatively (0 is indicative of asymptotic conditioning). CER can, therefore, measure both conditioned excitation and conditioned inhibition.\n\nThe amygdala, located in the temporal lobe, is a key brain region involved in the conditioned fear response and contributes to the autonomic, hormonal, and behavioral factors associated with that response. According to studies by Coover, Murison, & Jellestad and Davis and LeDoux in 1992, when a dog's amygdala is damaged, it does not show fear, and, when tamed by human beings, the dog's stress hormone levels in the blood are lower than they are in a normal dog. Similarly, humans become less likely to report feelings of fear after their amygdala has been damaged due to injury or stroke.\n\nThe most common measure of the CFR is the suppression ratio.\n\n"}
{"id": "898213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=898213", "title": "Countersignaling", "text": "Countersignaling\n\nCountersignaling or countersignalling is the behavior where agents with the highest level of a given property invest less into proving it than individuals with a medium level of the same property. This concept is primarily useful for analyzing human behavior and thus relevant to economics, sociology and psychology.\n\nMany of the things that people and animals want to know about each other, such as toughness, cooperativeness or fertility, are not directly observable. Instead, observable indicators of these unobservable properties must be used to communicate them to others. These are signals. Signaling theory deals with predicting the level of effort that individuals, the signalers, should invest to communicate their properties to other individuals, the receivers, and how these receivers interpret their signals.\n\nTwo conditions have to be fulfilled before signaling theory should be applied. First, there has to be informational asymmetry between the signaler and receiver (I know more about my own level of toughness than you do). Second, the potential for divergence or conflict of interest between the signaler and receiver. Without either of these two conditions, there is no need for signals as the problem is merely one of communication. Once these conditions are fulfilled, signals have to be used by individuals to prove to the other person their underlying hidden property.\n\nMuch research is concerned with understanding what signals signalers should send to convince a receiver that they have a certain property, and what signals a receiver should be convinced by. One way of doing this is by putting money on the table just to prove that you can; someone without the property would not be able to do the same. For example, in biology peacocks expend energy on elaborate plumage that increase their risk of dying. By doing this they demonstrate their genetic fitness, as genetically less fit males can only grow small plumage, while genetically better individuals can grow larger ones. (In biology, this is known as the handicap principle.)\n\nCountersignaling by contrast, is showing off by not showing off, or by playing humble. For instance, the \"nouveau riche\" are eager to flaunt their wealth, and often surround themselves with expensive luxury items. Those with old money are more understated, preferring not to waste money on such frivolities.\n\nThere are a number of different models that deal with this behavior and explain how rational individuals – those interested only in maximising certain utility – would find countersignaling beneficial.\n\nOne of these is by Feltovich, Harbaugh and To. They developed a formal model in which receivers of signals judge the senders of signals based not only on what can be inferred from the signal sent, but also on additional information, which is assumed to be helpful but not perfect. For example, senders might be of low, medium, or high quality, and the additional information might be adequate for distinguishing low from high but not necessarily from distinguishing medium from low or high. Under certain circumstances, medium-quality senders will have an incentive to signal (to ensure that they can be distinguished from low-quality ones), but high-quality senders may not—they are not likely to be mistaken for low-quality senders in any case, and signaling behavior may mark them as medium.\n"}
{"id": "134233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=134233", "title": "Damnation", "text": "Damnation\n\nDamnation (from Latin \"damnatio\") is the concept of divine punishment and torment in an afterlife for actions that were committed on Earth. In Ancient Egyptian religious tradition, citizens would recite the 42 negative confessions of Maat as their heart was weighed against the feather of truth. If the citizen's heart was heavier than a feather they would be devoured by Ammit. Zoroastrianism developed an eschatological concept of a Last Judgment called Frashokereti where the dead will be raised and the righteous wade through a river of milk while the wicked will be burned in a river of molten metal. Abrahamic religions such as Christianity have similar concepts of believers facing judgement on a last day to determine if they will spend eternity in Gehenna or heaven for their sin . A damned human \"in damnation\" is said to be either in Hell, or living in a state wherein they are divorced from Heaven and/or in a state of disgrace from God's favor. In traditional Abrahamic demonology, the Devil rules Hell, where he and his demons punish the damned.\n\nFollowing the religious meaning, the words \"damn\" and \"goddamn\" are a common form of religious profanity, in modern times often semantically weakened to the status of mere interjections.\n\nClassical Latin \"damnum\" means \"damage, cost, expense; penalty, fine\", ultimately from a PIE root \"*dap-\". The verb \"damnare\" in Roman law acquired a legal meaning of \"to pronounce judgement upon\".\n\nThe word entered Middle English usage from Old French in the early 14th century.\nThe secular meaning survives in English \"to condemn\" (in a court of law), or \"damning criticism\". The noun \"damnation\" itself is mostly reserved for the religious sense in Modern English, while \"condemnation\" remains common in secular usage.\n\nDuring the 18th century and until about 1930, the use of \"damn\" as an expletive was considered a severe profanity and was mostly avoided in print. The expression \"not worth a damn\" was recorded in 1802. The use of \"damn\" as an adjective, short for \"damned\", was recorded in 1775. \"Damn Yankee\" (a Southern US term for \"Northerner\") dates back to 1812.\n\nIn most forms of Western Christian belief, damnation to hell is what humanity deserves for its sins. Catholic and many Protestant denominations hold that human sin is the product of the fall of man of Adam and Eve in the book of Genesis. In some Christian denominations, only the sins that the Ten Commandments describe cause damnation, but others apply more strict terms. The reasons for being damned have varied widely through the centuries, with little consistency between different forms of Christianity (i.e., Catholic or Protestant). \"Sins\" ranging from murder to dancing have been said to lead to damnation.\nChristian denominations have differing views on soteriology, but a mainstream view is that believers can only escape damnation by salvation from Jesus Christ.\n\nOne conception is of suffering and denial of entrance to Heaven, often described in the book of Revelation as burning in a Lake of Fire. Another conception, derived from the scripture about \"Gehenna\" is simply that people will be discarded (burned), as being unworthy of preservation by God.\n\nIn Eastern Christian traditions (Eastern Orthodoxy and Oriental Orthodoxy), as well as some Western traditions, it is seen as a state of opposition to the love of God, a state into which all humans are born but against which Jesus Christ is the Mediator and Redeemer. Eastern traditions have established their views on Paradise and Gehenna from theologians like Isaac of Nineveh and Basil of Caesarea and the Fathers of the Church. In the Eastern Orthodox tradition theologians can describe God by presenting negative descriptions of what God is not, and describe Gehenna in similar ways.\n\nIn Hindusim, one of the three main acharyas, Acharya Madhva or Madhvacharya differed significantly from traditional Hindu beliefs owing to his concept of eternal damnation. For example, he divides souls into three classes. One class of souls, \"mukti-yogyas\", qualifies for liberation, another, the \"nitya-samsarins\", subject to eternal rebirth or eternal transmigration and a third class, \"tamo-yogyas\", who are condemned to eternal hell (\"andhatamasa\"). No other Hindu philosopher or school of Hinduism holds such beliefs. In contrast, most Hindus believe in universal salvation, that all souls will eventually obtain moksha, even if after millions of rebirths.\n\n\"Damn\" is nowadays a mildly profane word in English, although \"God damn\" (or \"Goddamn\") may be considered blasphemous by religious people, who regard it as a violation of the commandment against taking God's name in vain. \"Dang\" (mainly US) or \"darn\" are common euphemisms, specifically minced oaths, for \"damn\". The profanity of \"damn\" and its derivatives (e.g. \"damned\", \"damnation\") is effectively limited to cases where the word is not used in its literal meaning, e.g., \"The damned dog won't stop barking!\" (but the line of Arthur Miller's character John Proctor to his servant, \"God damns all liars\" uses the word in its literal sense and has not been seen as objectionable). Use of the word or its derivatives in their figurative forms may impact on the ratings of movies and television programmes.\n\nIn Indian English, there is an incorrect etymology connecting \"I don't give a damn\" with the dam, a 16th-century copper coin. Salman Rushdie, in a 1985 essay on the dictionary of Anglo-Indian terms 'Hobson-Jobson', ends with this:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14923018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14923018", "title": "Dharna", "text": "Dharna\n\nA dharna (Hindi: धरना, Nepali:धर्ना; Urdu: دهرنا) is a non-violent sit-in protest, which may include fast undertaken at the door of an offender, especially a debtor, in India as a means of obtaining compliance with a demand for justice, state response of criminal cases, or payment of a debt. It was a popular form of protest during the Indian independence movement and part of Mahatma Gandhi's satyagraha form of civil disobedience and protest.\n\nIn India, there are designated places for conducting Dharna, and a permission is required for it. Often, those practicing dharna break the permission leading to clashes with law enforcement.\n\nDharna generally refers to fixing one's mind on an object. It refers to whole-heartedly pledging toward an outcome or to inculcating a directed attitude. Dharna is consciously and diligently holding a point of view with the intent of achieving a goal.\n\nThe word originates from the Sanskrit word \"dharnam\".\n\nIn Pakistan, the term was first used in 1958 by Abdul Qayyum Khan against the Prime Minister Feroze Khan's administration to remove his President Iskander Mirza but its effective usage was made by Naeem Siddiqui proposed the to use dharna politics for obtaining objectives and latter on Qazi Hussain Ahmed and Jammat e Islami organised dharna in Pakistan in 1993, Imran Khan, Dr.Tahir ul Qadri and other political and religious leaders are now attempting to use this strategy for their purposes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17996242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17996242", "title": "Evidence of absence", "text": "Evidence of absence\n\nEvidence of absence is evidence of any kind that suggests something is missing or that it does not exist.\n\nPer the traditional aphorism, \"Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence,\" positive evidence of this kind is distinct from a lack of evidence or ignorance of that which should have been found already, had it existed. In this regard Irving Copi writes:\n\nThe difference between evidence that something is absent (e.g., an observation that suggests there were no dragons here today) and a simple absence of evidence (e.g., no careful research has been done) can be nuanced. Indeed, scientists will often debate whether an experiment's result should be considered evidence of absence, or if it remains absence of evidence. The debate is whether the experiment would have detected the phenomenon of interest if it was there.\n\nThe argument from ignorance for \"absence of evidence\" isn't necessarily fallacious, for example, that a potentially life saving new drug poses no long term health risk unless proved otherwise. On the other hand, were such an argument to rely imprudently on the \"lack\" of research to promote its conclusion, it would be considered an informal fallacy whereas the former can be a persuasive way to shift the burden of proof in an argument or debate. Carl Sagan criticized such \"impatience with ambiguity\" with cosmologist Martin Rees' maxim, \"Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence\".\nIn carefully designed scientific experiments, even null results can be evidence of absence. For instance, a hypothesis may be falsified if a vital predicted observation is not found empirically. (At this point, the underlying hypothesis may be rejected or revised and sometimes, additional ad hoc explanations may even be warranted.) Whether the scientific community will accept a null result as evidence of absence depends on many factors, including the detection power of the applied methods, the confidence of the inference, as well as confirmation bias within the community.\n\nThe Pyrrhonian skeptic, Sextus Empiricus, questioned the apodicticity of inductive reasoning because a universal rule cannot be established from an incomplete set of particular instances: \"When they propose to establish the universal from the particulars by means of induction, they will effect this by a review of either all or some of the particulars. But if they review some, the induction will be insecure, since some of the particulars omitted in the induction may contravene the universal; while if they are to review all, they will be toiling at the impossible, since the particulars are infinite and indefinite\".\n\nA negative claim is a colloquialism for an affirmative claim that asserts the non-existence or exclusion of something. Claiming that it is impossible to prove a negative is a pseudologic, because there are many proofs that substantiate negative claims in mathematics, science, and economics, including Arrow's impossibility theorem. There can be multiple claims within a debate. Nevertheless, whoever makes a claim carries the burden of proof regardless of positive or negative content in the claim.\n\nA negative claim may or may not exist as a counterpoint to a previous claim. A proof of impossibility or an evidence of absence argument are typical methods to fulfill the burden of proof for a negative claim.\n\nPhilosopher Steven Hales argues that typically one can logically be as confident with the negation of an affirmation. Hales says that if one's standards of certainty leads them to say \"there is never 'proof' of non-existence\", then they must also say that \"there is never 'proof' of \"existence\" either\". Hales argues that there are many cases where we may be able to prove something does not exist with as much certainty as proving something does exist.\n\n"}
{"id": "46348501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46348501", "title": "Evolution of the cochlea", "text": "Evolution of the cochlea\n\nCochlea is Latin for “snail, shell or screw” and originates from the Greek word κοχλίας \"kohlias\". The modern definition, the auditory portion of the inner ear, originated in the late 17th century. Within the mammalian cochlea exists the organ of Corti, which contains hair cells that are responsible for translating the vibrations it receives from surrounding fluid-filled ducts into electrical impulses that are sent to the brain to process sound. This spiral-shaped cochlea is estimated to have originated during the early Cretaceous Period, around 120 million years ago. Further, the auditory innervation of the spiral-shaped cochlea also traces back to the Cretaceous period. The evolution of the human cochlea is a major area of scientific interest because of its favourable representation in the fossil record. During the last century, many scientists such as evolutionary biologists and paleontologists strove to develop new methods and techniques to overcome the many obstacles associated with working with ancient, delicate artifacts. In the past, scientists were limited in their ability to fully examine specimens without causing damage to them. In more recent times, technologies such as micro-CT scanning became available. These technologies allow for the visual differentiation between fossilized animal materials and other sedimentary remains. With the use of X-ray technologies, it is possible to ascertain some information about the auditory capabilities of extinct creatures, giving insight to human ancestors as well as their contemporary species.\n\nWhile the basic structure of the inner ear in lepidosaurs (lizards and snakes), archosaurs (birds and crocodilians) and mammals is similar, and the organs are considered to be homologous, each group has a unique type of auditory organ. The hearing organ arose within the lagenar duct of stem reptiles, lying between the saccular and lagenar epithelia. In lepidosaurs, the hearing organ, the basilar papilla, is generally small, with at most 2000 hair cells, whereas in archosaurs the basilar papilla can be much longer (>10mm in owls) and contain many more hair cells that show two typical size extremes, the short and the tall hair cells. In mammals, the structure is known as the organ of Corti and shows a unique arrangement of hair cells and supporting cells. All mammalian organs of Corti contain a supporting tunnel made up of pillar cells, on the inner side of which there are inner hair cells and outer hair cells on the outer side. The definitive mammalian middle ear and the elongated cochlea allows for better sensitivity for higher frequencies.\n\nAs in all lepidosaurs and archosaurs, the single-ossicle (columellar) middle ear transmits sound to the footplate of the columella, which sends a pressure wave through the inner ear. In snakes, the basilar papilla is roughly 1mm long and only responds to frequencies below about 1 kHz. In contrast, lizards tend to have two areas of hair cells, one responding below and the other above 1 kHz. The upper frequency limit in most lizards is roughly 5–8 kHz. The longest lizard papillae are about 2mm long and contain 2000 hair cells and their afferent innervating fibers can be very sharply tuned to frequency.\n\nIn birds and crocodilians, the similarity of the structure of the basilar papilla betrays their close evolutionary relationship. The basilar papilla is up to about 10mm long and contains up to 16500 hair cells. While most birds have an upper hearing limit of only about 6 kHz, the barn owl can hear up to 12 kHz and thus close to the human upper limit.\n\nEgg-laying mammals, the monotremes (spiny anteater and platypus), do not have a spiral cochlea, but one shaped more like a banana, up to about 7 mm long. Like in lepidosaurs and archosaurs, it contains a lagena, a vestibular sensory epithelium, at its tip. Only in therian mammals (marsupials and placentals) is the cochlea truly coiled 1.5 to 3.5 times. Whereas in monotremes there are many rows of both inner and outer hair cells in the organ of Corti, in therian (marsupial and placental) mammals the number of inner hair-cell rows is one, and there are generally only three rows of outer hair cells.\n\nAmphibians have unique inner ear structures. There are two sensory papillae involved in hearing, the basilar (higher frequency) and amphibian (lower frequency) papillae, but it is uncertain whether either is homologous to the hearing organs of lepidosaurs, archosaurs and mammals and we have no idea when they arose.\n\nFish have no dedicated auditory epithelium, but use various vestibular sensory organs that respond to sound. In most teleost fishes it is the saccular macula that responds to sound. In some, such as goldfishes, there is also a special bony connection to the gas bladder that increases sensitivity allowing hearing up to about 4 kHz.\n\nThe size of cochlea has been measured throughout its evolution based on the fossil record. In one study, the basal turn of the cochlea was measured, and it was hypothesized that cochlear size correlates with body mass. The size of the basal turn of the cochlea was not different in Neanderthals and Holocene humans, however it became larger in early modern humans and Upper Paleolithic humans. Furthermore, the position and orientation of the cochlea is similar between Neanderthals and Holocene humans, relative to plane of the lateral canal, whereas early modern and upper Paleolithic humans have a more superiorly placed cochlea than Holocene humans. When comparing hominins of the Middle Pleistocene and Neanderthals and Holocene humans, the apex of the cochlea faces more inferiorly in the hominins than the latter two groups. Finally, the cochlea of European middle Pleistocene hominins faces more inferiorly than Neanderthals, modern humans, and Homo erectus.\nHuman beings, along with Apes, are the only mammals that do not have high frequency (>32 kHz) hearing. Humans have long cochleae, but the space devoted to each frequency range is quite large (2.5mm per octave), resulting in a comparatively reduced upper frequency limit. The human cochlea has approximately 2.5 turns around the modiolus (the axis). Humans, like many mammals and birds, are able to perceive auditory signals that displace the eardrum by a mere picometre.\n\nBecause of its prominence and preserved state in the fossil record, until recently, the ear had been used to determine phylogeny. The ear itself contains different portions, including the outer ear, the middle ear, and the inner ear and all of these show evolutionary changes that are often unique to each lineage [14]. It was the independent evolution of a tympanic middle ear in the Triassic era that produced strong selection pressures towards improved hearing organs in the separate lineages of land vertebrates.\n\nThe cochlea is the tri-chambered auditory detection portion of the ear, consisting of the scala media, the scala tympani, and the scala vestibuli. Regarding mammals, placental and marsupial cochleae have similar cochlear responses to auditory stimulation as well as DC resting potentials. This leads to the investigation of the relationship between these therian mammals and researching their ancestral species to trace the origin of the cochlea.\n\nThis spiral-shaped cochlea that is in both marsupial and placental mammals is traced back to approximately 120 million years ago. The development of the most basic basilar papilla (the auditory organ that later evolved into the Organ of Corti in mammals) happened at the same time as the water-to-land transition of vertebrates, approximately 380 million years ago. The actual coiling or spiral nature of the cochlea occurred to save space inside the skull. The longer the cochlea, the higher is the potential resolution of sound frequencies given the same hearing range. The oldest of the truly coiled mammalian cochleae were approximately 4 mm in length.\n\nThe earliest evidence available for primates depicts a short cochlea with prominent laminae, suggesting that they had good high-frequency sensitivity as opposed to low-frequency sensitivity. After this, over a period of around 60 million years, evidence suggests that primates developed longer cochleae and less prominent laminae, which means that they had an improvement in low-frequency sensitivity and a decrease in high-frequency sensitivity. By the early Miocene period, the cycle of the elongation of the cochleae and the deterioration of the laminae was completed. Evidence shows that primates have had an increasing cochlear volume to body mass ratio over time. These changes in the cochlear labyrinth volume negatively affect the highest and lowest audible frequencies, causing a downward shift. Non-primates appear to have smaller cochlear labyrinth volumes overall when compared to primates. Some evidence also suggests that selective forces for the larger cochlear labyrinth may have started after the basal primate node.\nMammals are the subject of a substantial amount of research not only because of the potential knowledge to be gained regarding humans, but also because of their rich and abundant representation in the fossil record. The spiral shape of the cochlea evolved later on in the evolutionary pathway of mammals than previously believed, just before the therians split into the two lineages marsupials and placentals, about 120 million years ago.\n\nParallel to the evolution of the cochlea, prestins show an increased rate of evolution in therian mammals. Prestins are located in the outer hair cells of mammalian cochlea and are considered motor proteins. They are found in the hair cells of all vertebrates, including fish, but are thought to have initially been membrane transporter molecules. A high concentration of prestins are found only in the lateral membranes of therian outer hair cells (there is uncertainty with regard to concentrations in monotremes). This high concentration is not found in inner hair cells, and is also lacking in all hair cell types of non-mammals. Prestin also has a role in motility, which evolved a greater importance in the motor function in land vertebrates, but this developed vastly differently in different lineages. In certain birds and mammals, prestins function as both transporters and motors, but the strongest evolution to robust motor dynamics only evolved in therian mammals. It is hypothesized that this motor system is significant to the therian cochlea at high frequencies because of the distinctive cellular and bony composition of the organ of Corti that allows the prestins to intensify movements of the whole structure.\nModern ultra-sound echolocating species such as bats and toothed whales show highly evolved prestins, and these prestins show identical sequence alterations over time. Unusually, the sequences thus apparently evolved independent from each other during different time periods. Furthermore, the evolution of neurotransmitter receptor systems (acetylcholine) that regulate the motor feedback of the outer hair cells coincides with prestin evolution in therians. This suggests that there was a parallel evolution of a control system and a motor system in the inner ear of therian mammals.\n\nLand vertebrates evolved middle ears independently in each major lineage, and are this the result of parallel evolution. The configurations of the middle ears of monotreme and therian mammals can thus be interpreted as convergent evolution or homoplasy. Thus evidence from fossils demonstrate homoplasies for the detachment of the ear from the jaw. Furthermore, it is apparent that the land-based eardrum, or tympanic membrane, and connecting structures such as the Eustachian tube evolved convergently in multiple different settings as opposed to being a defining morphology.\n"}
{"id": "228642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228642", "title": "Final form", "text": "Final form\n\nIn certain languages, the final form is a special character used to represent a letter only when it occurs at the end of a word. \nSome languages that use final form characters are: Arabic, Hebrew, Manchu and one letter in Greek (ς).\n\nThe lowercase Latin letter \"s\" had separate medial (ſ) and final (s) in the orthographies of many European languages from the medieval period to the early 19th century; it survived in the German Fraktur script until the 1940s.\n\nIn the Hebrew alphabet the final form is called sofit (, meaning \"final\" or \"ending\"). The following five Hebrew letters take a final form:\n\nThis set of letters is known acronymically as אותיות מנצפ\"ך.\n\nThe now final forms ן ץ ף ך predate their non-final counterparts; They were the default forms used in any position within a word. Their descender eventually bent forwards when preceding another letter to facilitate writing. A final form of these letters is also called pshuta (פשוטה, meaning extended or plain).\n\nThe Letter מ also had a descender (𐡌), however, its current final form ם was a variant of מ used interchangeably in all positions. One instance of a medial ם is preserved in the Hebrew Bible (Isaiah 9:6). Arguably, Genesis 49:19-20 have a final מ.\n\nModern Hebrew uses the forms פ כ finally, when transcribing a plosive pronunciation, for example מיקרוסקופ (microscope), מובארכ (Mubarak, مبارك).\n"}
{"id": "18742821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18742821", "title": "Free loop", "text": "Free loop\n\nIn the mathematical field of topology, a free loop is a variant of the mathematical notion of a loop. Whereas a loop has a distinguished point on it, called a basepoint, a free loop lacks such a distinguished point. Formally, let formula_1 be a topological space. Then a free loop in formula_1 is an equivalence class of continuous functions from the circle formula_3 to formula_1. Two loops are equivalent if they differ by a reparameterization of the circle. That is, formula_5 if there exists a homeomorphism formula_6 such that formula_7.\n\nThus, a free loop, as opposed to a based loop used in the definition of the fundamental group, is a map from the circle to the space without the basepoint-preserving restriction. Free homotopy classes of free loops correspond to conjugacy classes in the fundamental group.\n\nRecently, interest in the space of all free loops formula_8 has grown with the advent of string topology, i.e. the study of new algebraic structures on the homology of the free loop space.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34159161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34159161", "title": "Frontiers and Ghettos", "text": "Frontiers and Ghettos\n\nFrontiers and Ghettos: State Violence in Serbia and Israel is a sociological book written by James Ron, Harold E. Stassen Chair in International Affairs at the University of Minnesota. Inspired by his time as a member of the Israel Defense Forces, as a research consultant for Human Rights Watch, and as a research consultant for the International Red Cross, Ron asks: \"what explains why states use different kinds of violence in some cases and not others?\" For Ron, institutional distinctions and international norms are key to explaining diverse repertoires of state violence against similar victims.\n\nIn \"Frontiers and Ghettos\", James Ron argues that states use different methods and degrees of coercion against perceived national enemies as a result of variation in institutional contexts. \nWhen a targeted group is ghettoized, they are likely to become victims of severe, police-style repression but not ethnic cleansing or murder. Contrarily, when a targeted group exists on a frontier, they are more likely to become victims of cleansing and death instead of repression. This is because in ghettos, states have unrivaled control but are also bound by international and domestic legal and moral obligations to its inhabitants. Along frontiers, states have less control as well as fewer and weaker moral obligations. According to Ron, the more that a state controls a given territory, the more it feels a “bureaucratic, moral, and political sense of responsibility” for the fate of those within it. This sense of responsibility leads states to choose less overtly violent modes of repression in ghettos as compared to when states target populations exist on the periphery.\n\nJames Ron examines five cases of ethnic violence and ethnic policing in two States, Serbia and Israel, over similar periods of time. The cases are as follows:\n\n\nRon uses field interviews, newspaper reports and academic publications to illustrate the importance of institutional context for explaining repertoires of state violence. He argues that Serbia engaged in ethnic cleansing in Bosnia because in 1992, Bosnia became a frontier. On the other hand, Israel policed Palestinians in 1988 because Palestine at the time was a ghetto, even though the threat posed by Palestinians during the 1988 uprising was greater. The more states controlled territories and peoples, the less likely their security forces were to ethnically cleanse perceived national enemies.\n\n\"Frontiers and Ghettos\" was favorably received by many sociologists and political scientists as well as human rights organizations working on issues related to state violence. For example, the historian L. Carl Brown, writing for \"Foreign Affairs\" magazine, wrote that the book offered \"a well-documented study of Ron's chosen examples and a sophisticated framework for understanding other such situations.\" Sociologist Anthony Obserschall compliments Ron for his \"engaging and promising\" hypothesis as well as his \"fascinating\" use of detail that make the footnotes as pleasurable to read as the main text.\" However, Obserschall also critiques Ron on several grounds. For example, he argues that (1) the ethnic policing versus cleansing distinction is too crude for legal and normative evaluations of state violence, and (2) the frontier concept is applied inconsistently for the comparisons Ron wishes to make. In the former critique, Obserschall notes how 750 Palestinians were killed during The First Intifada, 13,000 were wounded, hundreds lost their homes, and thousands were arrested and detained. In the latter critique, Obserschall writes that the Lebanese frontier and Bosnian frontier are not as comparable as Ron makes them out to be. Bosniaks in Bosnia were unarmed and defenseless whereas Palestinian paramilitaries in South Lebanon were heavily armed and frequently engaged in cross-border military actions against Israelis. Political Scientist Darius Rejali writes that Ron argues \"persuasively\" why it is important to study not just why violence is done, but how. He adds, \"[Ron's] \"study of the practice shows that international norms are far more robust than political scientists normally imagine\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39625286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39625286", "title": "Frustrated triangular lattice", "text": "Frustrated triangular lattice\n\nGeometrical frustration occurs when a set of degrees of freedom is incompatible with the space it occupies.\n\nA purely geometric example of this is the impossibility of close-packing pentagons in two dimensions. Another is atomic magnetic moments with antiferromagnetic interactions. These moments lower their interaction energy by pointing antiparallel to their neighbors.\n\nIn the case of two dimensional space, the triangular lattice is the simplest example of such frustration. With a triangular lattice, the two spins can easily accommodate two sides, but the third spin is frustrated. If this third spin is up, then two arrangements out of the three are compatible, but one is incompatible. This leads to a huge degeneracy in the ground state with non-zero entropy. This frustration leads to breaking symmetry, which leads to ferroelectricity.\n\n"}
{"id": "20537031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20537031", "title": "Ignotum per ignotius", "text": "Ignotum per ignotius\n\nIgnotum per ignotius (Latin for \"the unknown by the more unknown\") describes an explanation that is less familiar than the concept it would explain.\n\nAn example would be: \"The oven felt hot because of Fourier's Law.\" It is unlikely that a person unfamiliar with the hotness of ovens would be enlightened by a reference to a fundamental law of physics. Of course, such a person might exist in theory, so \"ignotum per ignotius\" is not strictly a logical fallacy; it is just a criticism of an argument on rhetorical grounds, stating that such an argument is not useful in a particular context.\n\nIgnotum per æque ignotum, meaning \"the unknown by the equally unknown\", is a related form of fallacy in which one attempts to prove something unknown by deducing it from something else that is also not known to be true.\n\n"}
{"id": "56637872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56637872", "title": "Industrial ecology programme", "text": "Industrial ecology programme\n\nThe Industrial Ecology Programme, or IndEcol, at NTNU (Trondheim, Norway) is an interdisciplinary research programme specialising in sustainable development, circular economy research and environmental issues.\n\nIndEcol's research areas are framed around the recently adopted United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and include:\n\nResearch groups focus on Life Cycle Assessment, Material Flow Analysis, and global environmental input-output analysis. The Digital Laboratory of the Programme bundles the Research software engineering efforts of the group.\nThe programme was initiated in 1994 and covers several research disciplines and a comprehensive educational curriculum. IndEcol established the world's first PhD programme in Industrial Ecology in 2003 and set up the international Master of Science in Industrial Ecology the following year.\n\nThe IndEcol group consists of Professors, Researchers, Post-Doctoral Fellows and PhD candidates, and currently numbers around 45 people. Current academics include Helge Brattebø, Anders Strømman, Daniel Müller, Richard Wood, Francesco Cherubini, Francesca Verones, and Johan Berg Pettersen. Cherubini was a contributing author for Working Group 3's Chapter 7 (Energy systems) and Chapter 11 (Agriculture, Forestry, and other Land Use) 5th Assessment Report for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)\n\nThe Industrial Ecology Programme at NTNU offers both PhD and Master’s study options\n\nIndEcol is the home of the NTNU SUSTAINABILITY office, which represents one of four Strategic Research Areas of NTNU \n\nIndEcol is also the home for the European Editorial Office of Journal of Industrial Ecology, a journal produced by Yale University for the International Society for Industrial Ecology.\n\n"}
{"id": "1201811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1201811", "title": "Ishvara", "text": "Ishvara\n\nIshvara (Sanskrit: ईश्वर, IAST: Īśvara) is a concept in Hinduism, with a wide range of meanings that depend on the era and the school of Hinduism. In ancient texts of Indian philosophy, depending on the context, \"Ishvara\" can mean supreme soul, ruler, lord, king, queen or husband. In medieval era Hindu texts, depending on the school of Hinduism, \"Ishvara\" means God, Supreme Being, personal god, or special Self.\n\nIn Shaivism, \"Ishvara\" is synonymous with \"Shiva\", sometimes as \"Maheshvara\" or \"Parameshvara\" meaning the \"Supreme lord\", or as an Ishta-deva (personal god). In Vaishnavism, it is synonymous with Vishnu. In traditional Bhakti movements, Ishvara is one or more deities of an individual's preference from Hinduism's polytheistic canon of deities. In modern sectarian movements such as Arya Samaj and Brahmoism, Ishvara takes the form of a monotheistic God. In Yoga school of Hinduism, it is any \"personal deity\" or \"spiritual inspiration\". In Advaita Vedanta school, Ishvara is a monistic Universal Absolute that connects and is the Oneness in everyone and everything.\n\nThe root of the word Ishvara comes from \"īś-\" (ईश, Ish) which means \"capable of\" and \"owner, ruler, chief of\", ultimately cognate with English \"own\" (Germanic \"*aigana-\", PIE \"*aik-\"). The second part of the word \"Ishvara\" is \"vara\" which means depending on context, \"best, excellent, beautiful\", \"choice, wish, blessing, boon, gift\", and \"suitor, lover, one who solicits a girl in marriage\". The composite word, \"Ishvara\" literally means \"owner of best, beautiful\", \"ruler of choices, blessings, boons\", or \"chief of suitor, lover\".\n\nAs a concept, \"Ishvara\" in ancient and medieval Sanskrit texts, variously means God, Supreme Being, Supreme Soul, lord, king or ruler, rich or wealthy man, god of love, deity Shiva, one of the Rudras, prince, husband and the number eleven.\n\nThe word \"Īśvara\" never appears in Rigveda. However, the verb \"īś-\" does appear in Rig veda, where the context suggests that the meaning of it is \"capable of, able to\". It is absent in Samaveda, is rare in Atharvaveda, appears in Samhitas of Yajurveda. The contextual meaning, however as the ancient Indian grammarian Pāṇini explains, is neither god nor supreme being.\n\nThe word \"Ishvara\" appears in numerous ancient Dharmasutras. However, Patrick Olivelle states that there \"Ishvara\" does not mean God, but means Vedas. Deshpande states that \"Ishvara\" in Dharmasutras could alternatively mean king, with the context literally asserting that \"the Dharmasutras are as important as \"Ishvara\" (the king) on matters of public importance\".\n\nIn Saivite traditions of Hinduism, the term is used as part of the compound \"Maheshvara\" (\"great lord\") as a name for Shiva. In Mahayana Buddhism it is used as part of the compound \"Avalokiteśvara\" (\"lord who hears the cries of the world\"), the name of a bodhisattva revered for his compassion. When referring to divine as female, particularly in Shaktism, the feminine \"\" is sometimes used.\n\nAmong the six systems of Hindu philosophy, Samkhya and Mimamsa do not consider the concept of \"Ishvara\", i.e., a supreme being, relevant. Yoga, Vaisheshika, Vedanta and Nyaya schools of Hinduism discuss Ishvara, but assign different meanings.\n\nDesmarais states that Isvara is a metaphysical concept in Yogasutras. It does not mention deity anywhere, nor does it mention any devotional practices (\"Bhakti\"), nor does it give \"Ishvara\" characteristics typically associated with a deity. In Yoga school of Hinduism, states Whicher, Isvara is neither a creator God nor the universal Absolute of Advaita Vedanta school of Hinduism. Whicher also notes that some theistic sub-schools of Vedanta philosophy of Hinduism, inspired by the Yoga school, explain the term \"Ishvara\" as the \"Supreme Being that rules over the cosmos and the individuated beings\". Malinar states that in Samkhya-Yoga schools of Hinduism, \"Isvara\" is neither a creator-God, nor a savior-God.\n\nZimmer in his 1951 Indian philosophies book noted that the Bhakti sub-schools refer to Isvara as a Divine Lord, or the deity of specific Bhakti sub-school. Modern sectarian movements have emphasized Ishvara as Supreme Lord; for example, Hare Krishna movement considers Krishna as the Lord, Arya Samaj and Brahmoism movements – influenced by Christian and Islamic movements in India – conceptualize Ishvara as a monotheistic all powerful Lord. In traditional theistic sub-schools of Hinduism, such as the Vishishtadvaita Vedanta of Ramanuja and Dvaita Vedanta of Madhva, Ishvara is identified as Lord Vishnu/Narayana, that is distinct from the \"Prakriti\" (material world) and \"Purusa\" (soul, spirit).\n\nRadhakrishnan and Moore state that these variations in \"Isvara\" concept is consistent with Hinduism's notion of \"personal God\" where the \"ideals or manifestation of individual's highest Self values that are esteemed\". Riepe, and others, state that schools of Hinduism leave the individual with freedom and choice of conceptualizing Isvara in any meaningful manner he or she wishes, either in the form of \"deity of one's choice\" or \"formless Brahman (Absolute Reality, Universal Principle, true special Self)\".\n\nSamkhya is called one of the several major atheistic schools of Hinduism by some scholars. Others, such as , Samkhya is more accurately described as non-theistic. Isvara is considered an irrelevant concept, neither defined nor denied, in Samkhya school of Hindu philosophy.\n\nThe Yogasutras of Patanjali, the foundational text of Yoga school of Hinduism, uses the term \"Ishvara\" in 11 verses: I.23 through I.29, II.1, II.2, II.32 and II.45. Ever since the Sutra's release, Hindu scholars have debated and commented on who or what is \"Isvara\"? These commentaries range from defining \"Isvara\" from a \"personal god\" to \"special self\" to \"anything that has spiritual significance to the individual\". Whicher explains that while Patanjali's terse verses can be interpreted both as theistic or non-theistic, Patanjali's concept of \"Isvara\" in Yoga philosophy functions as a \"transformative catalyst or guide for aiding the yogin on the path to spiritual emancipation\".\n\nPatanjali defines \"Isvara\" (Sanskrit: ईश्वर) in verse 24 of Book 1, as \"a special Self (पुरुषविशेष, \"puruṣa-viśeṣa\")\",\n\nSanskrit: <br>\n– Yoga Sutras I.24\n\nThis sutra of Yoga philosophy of Hinduism adds the characteristics of \"Isvara\" as that special Self which is unaffected (अपरामृष्ट, \"aparamrsta\") by one's obstacles/hardships (क्लेश, \"klesha\"), one's circumstances created by past or one's current actions (कर्म, \"karma\"), one's life fruits (विपाक, \"vipâka\"), and one's psychological dispositions/intentions (आशय, ashaya).\n\nPatanjali's concept of Isvara is neither a creator God nor the universal Absolute of Advaita Vedanta school of Hinduism.\n\nVaiśeṣika school of Hinduism, as founded by Kanada in 1st millennium BC, neither required nor relied on \"Ishvara\" for its atomistic naturalism philosophy. To it, substances and \"paramāṇu\" (atoms) were eternal, they moved and interacted based on impersonal, eternal \"adrsta\" (अदृष्ट, invisible) laws of nature. The concept of \"Ishvara\", among others, entered into Vaisheshika school many centuries later in 1st millennium AD. This evolution in ideas aimed to explain how and why its so-called \"atoms\" have a particular order and proportions. These later-age ancient Vaiśeṣika scholars retained their belief that substances are eternal, added Ishvara as another eternal who is also omniscient and omnipresent (not omnipotent). Ishvara did not create the world, according to this school of Hindu scholars, but He only created invisible laws that operate the world and then He becomes passive and lets those hidden universal laws do its thing. Thus, Vaisheshika's Ishvara mirrors Deus otiosus of Deism. Vaisheshika school's \"Ishvara\", states Klaus Klostermaier, can be understood as an eternal God who co-exists in the universe with eternal substances and atoms, but He \"winds up the clock, and lets it run its course\".\n\nEarly Nyaya school scholars considered the hypothesis of Ishvara as a creator God with the power to grant blessings, boons and fruits. However, the early Nyaya scholars rejected this hypothesis, and were non-theistic or atheists. Later scholars of Nyaya school reconsidered this question and offered counter arguments for what is Ishvara and various arguments to prove the existence of \"Ishvara\".\n\nIn Nyayasutra's Book 4, Chapter 1 examines what causes production and destruction of entities (life, matter) in universe. It considers many hypotheses, including \"Ishvara\". Verses 19-21, postulates Ishvara exists and is the cause, states a consequence of postulate, then presents contrary evidence, and from contradiction concludes that the postulate must be invalid.\n\nCenturies later, the 5th century CE Nyaya school scholar Prastapada revisited the premise of Ishvara. He was followed by Udayana, who in his text \"Nyayakusumanjali\", interpreted \"it\" in verse 4.1.21 of Nyaya Sutra above, as \"human action\" and \"him\" as \"Ishvara\", then he developed counter arguments to prove the existence of Ishvara. In developing his arguments, he inherently defined \"Ishvara\" as efficient cause, omnipotent, omniscient, infallible, giver of gifts, ability and meaning to humanity, divine creator of the world as well as the moral principles, and the unseen power that makes the karma doctrine work.\n\nMīmāṃsā scholars of Hinduism questioned what is \"Ishvara\" (God)? They used their \"pramana\" tools to cross examine answers offered by other schools of Hinduism. For example, when Nyaya scholars stated God is omnipotent, omniscient and infallible, that the world is the result of God's creation which is proved by the presence of creatures, just like human work proves human existence, Mimamsa scholars asked, why does this God create the world, for what reason? Further, they added, it cannot be because of Ishvara's love to human beings because this world – if Ishvara created it – is imperfect and human souls are suffering in it. Mimamsa scholars of Hinduism raised numerous objections to any definition of Ishvara along with its premises, deconstructed justifications offered, and considered Ishvara concept unnecessary for a consistent philosophy and moksha (soteriology).\n\nAdvaita Vedanta school of Hinduism proclaims that at the empirical level Ishvara is the cause of the universe and the one who awards the fruits of every action. He is defined as the one without likes and dislikes, as well embodied with compassion (vaiShamya NairgghruNya doSha vihInaH). Ishvara is that which is \"free from \"avidya\" (ignorance), free from \"ahamkrti\" (ego-sense), free from \"bandhana\" (bondage)\", a Self that is \"pure, enlightened, liberated\". \nHaving accepted and established Ishvara, Advaita Vedanta proclaims that the real nature of Ishvara (existence, consciousness and bliss) is non different from the real nature of an individual. This gives room in Advaita Vedanta to show the nature of Ishvara as both the material and instrumental cause of this universe and the individual who is limited in his own capacities as unreal and declare that there is oneness between the two having negated the qualities. This establishes Ishvara as 'saguNa' or with attributes from the empirical existence and 'nirguNa' from the absolute sense. This oneness is accepted only at the level of 'mukti' or ultimate realization and not at the 'vyavahara' or empirical level. At the absolute level there is no otherness nor distinction between \"Jiva\" (living being) and \"Ishvara\", and any attempts to distinguish the two is a false idea, one based on wrong knowledge, according to Advaita Vedanta.\n\nOther Advaitin Hindu texts resonate with the monist views of Adi Shankara. For example, Isa Upanishad, in hymn 1.5-7, states Ishvara is \"above everything, outside everything, beyond everything, yet also within everything\"; he who knows himself as all beings and all beings as himself – he never becomes alarmed before anyone. He becomes free from fears, from delusions, from root cause of evil. He becomes pure, invulnerable, unified, free from evil, true to truth, liberated like Ishvara.\n\"Ishvara\", in Vishishtadvaita Vedanta sub-school of Hinduism, is a composite concept of dualism and non-dualism, or \"non-dualism with differentiation\". Ishvara, Vishishtadvaitin scholars such as the 11th century Ramanuja state, is the supreme creator and synonymous with Brahman. Equated with Vishnu in Vishishtadvaita or one of his avatar, he is both the material and efficient cause, transcendent and immanent. Ishvara manifests in five forms, believe Vishishtadvaitins: \"para\" (transcendent), \"vyuha\" (emanations), \"vibhava\" (incarnations), \"antaryamin\" (dwells inside), and \"arca\" (icons). According to this sub-school, states John Grimes, Ishvara possesses six divine qualities: \"jnana\" (knowledge), \"bala\" (strength), \"aisvarya\" (lordship), \"sakti\" (power), \"virya\" (virility) and \"tejas\" (splendor).\n\nRamanuja's Vishishtadvaita concepts provided the foundation for several Bhakti movements of Hinduism, such as those by Sri Aurobindo and has been suggested as having influenced Basava's Lingayatism.\n\nThe Dvaita (dualism) sub-school of Vedanta Hinduism, founded by 13th century Madhva, defines \"Ishvara\" as creator God that is distinct from \"Jiva\" (individual souls in living beings). Narayana (Vishnu) is considered to be \"Ishvara\", and the Vaishnavism movement arose on the foundation developed by Dvaita Vedanta sub-school.\n\n\"Ishvara\" (God) is a complete, perfect and the highest reality to Dvaitins, and simultaneously the world is separate reality for them, unlike competing thoughts in other sub-schools of Vedanta. In Dvaita sub-school, \"Jiva\" (individual soul) is different, yet dependent on \"Ishvara\" (God). Both possess the attributes of consciousness, bliss and existence, but the individual soul is considered atomic, while God is all encompassing. The attributes of \"Jiva\" struggle to manifest, while of God it is fully manifested.\n\nMadhva states there are five permutations of differences between \"Jiva\" (individual souls) and \"Ishvara\" (God): between God and souls, between God and matter, between souls and matter, between one soul and another soul, and between one material thing and another material thing. The differences are both qualitative and quantitative. Unlike Advaita Vedantins who hold that knowledge can lead to Oneness with Everyone and fusion with Universal Absolute, to the state of moksha in this life, Dvaita Vedantins hold that moksha is possible only in after-life if God so wills (if not, then one's soul is reborn). Further, Madhva highlights that God creates individual souls, but the individual soul never was and never will become one with God; the best it can do is to experience bliss by getting infinitely close to God.\n\nThe world, called \"Maya\", is held as the divine will of Ishvara. \"Jiva\" suffers, experiences misery and bondage, state Dvaitins, because of \"ignorance and incorrect knowledge\" (\"ajnana\"). Liberation occurs with the correct knowledge and attainment unto Lord Narayana. It is His grace that gives salvation according to Dvaita sub-school, which is achievable by predominance of \"sattva\" guna (moral, constructive, simple, kindness-filled life), and therefore Dvaitins must live a dharmic life while constantly remembering, deeply loving \"Ishvara\".\n\n is a sub-school of Vedanta representing the philosophy of \"inconceivable one-ness and difference\", in relation to the power creation and creator, Ishvara, (Krishna).\n\nIn Sanskrit \"achintya\" means 'inconceivable', \"bheda\" translates as 'difference', and \"abheda\" translates as 'one-ness'. Spirit souls are considered part of God and thus one with Him in quality, and yet at the same time different from Him in quantity. This is called acintya-bheda-abheda-tattva, inconceivable, simultaneous oneness and difference.\n\nCaitanya's philosophy of acintya-bhedābheda-tattva completed the progression to devotional theism. Rāmānuja had agreed with that the Absolute is one only, but he had disagreed by affirming individual variety within that oneness. Madhva had underscored the eternal duality of the Supreme and the Jīva: he had maintained that this duality endures even after liberation. Caitanya, in turn, specified that the Supreme and the jīvas are \"inconceivably, simultaneously one and different\" (acintya-bheda-abheda).\n\nCārvāka, another atheist tradition in Hinduism, was materialist and a school of philosophical scepticism. They rejected all concepts of \"Ishvara\" as well as all forms of supernaturalism.\n"}
{"id": "1561112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561112", "title": "Isolation (psychology)", "text": "Isolation (psychology)\n\nIsolation () is a defence mechanism in psychoanalytic theory first proposed by Sigmund Freud. While related to repression the concept distinguishes itself in several ways. It is characterized as a mental process involving the creation of a gap between an unpleasant or threatening cognition, and other thoughts and feelings. By minimizing associative connections with other thoughts, the threatening cognition is remembered less often and is less likely to affect self-esteem or the self concept. \nFreud illustrated the concept with the example of a person beginning a train of thought and then pausing for a moment before continuing to a different subject. His theory stated that by inserting an interval the person was \"letting it be understood symbolically that he will not allow his thoughts about that impression or activity to come into associative contact with other thoughts.\" As a defense against harmful thoughts, isolation prevents the self from allowing these cognitions to become recurrent and possibly damaging to the self-concept.\n\nA wide range of studies supports the conclusion that people defend themselves against threats by mentally isolating them. Repressors have been shown to process information in a rushed, shallow, or minimal fashion. When presented with some negative information, they will often generate spontaneous happy thoughts or feelings, minimizing its impact. Depressed people process information much more thoroughly, whether it is good or bad. This high level of processing develops strong associative links with similar information. When a depressed person tries to avoid a damaging cognition, they often think of some other negatively affecting thought. Evidence from human and animal studies shows that isolation prompts sensitivity to social threats and motivates the renewal of social connections.\n\nOne study showed that people would remain satisfied with their performance in the face of negative feedback as long as they could keep the feedback isolated from performance standards. The researchers would present the standards either before the performance, or after the performance but before the feedback, or after both the performance and the feedback. The people who received the standards early recalled them as well as the others, but simply ignored it. They managed to isolate their feedback from the standards thereby minimizing the threat to their self-esteem. Those who received the standards later were less satisfied with their performance, unable to avoid their lack of success as compared to the norm. This form of isolation has been referred to as trivializing.\n\nAnother noteworthy type of isolation is referred to as \"temporal bracketing\", in which some perceived failure or shortcoming is buried away in one's past, effectively removing its impact on the current self. This type of separation from the past can be seen in religious conversion or \"born again\" experiences, in certain drug addiction recovery programs, and in the throwing away of delinquent files in the legal system. These socially accepted practices effectively make isolation socially permissible, at least in certain instances; and those behaviors seem to relieve some of the stress from past events. People with low self-esteem often use temporal bracketing when describing past failures. By isolating themselves from whatever misdeed they are bringing to cognition, they contend that it has nothing to do with their current state or relationships with people.\n\nHabitual repressors have been shown to have fewer unhappy memories than other people, but the difference rests in the secondary associations. Research of repressors concluded that they had equally strong negative reactions to bad memories, however those memories did not evoke other negative feelings as much as they did for non-repressors. The phrase, \"architecture of less complex emotions\" was created to describe this phenomenon. Repressors have bad memories just like anyone else, but are less troubled by them because they are relatively isolated in memory. The most current researchers have agreed that isolation is one of the more effective and important mechanisms of defense from harmful cognitions. It is a coping mechanism that does not require delusions of reality, which makes it more plausible than some alternatives (denial, sublimation, projection, etc.). Further research will be needed for accounts of isolation to be considered fully concrete.\n"}
{"id": "1783184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1783184", "title": "Kammaṭṭhāna", "text": "Kammaṭṭhāna\n\nIn Buddhism, is a Pali word (Sanskrit: karmasthana) which literally means \"the place of work\". Its original meaning was someone's occupation (farming, trading, cattle-tending, etc.). It has several distinct but related usages, all having to do with Buddhist meditation.\n\nIts most basic meaning is as a word for meditation. In Burma senior meditation practitioners are known as \"kammatthanacariyas\" (meditation masters). Buddhaghosa uses \"kammatthana\" to refer to each of his forty meditation objects listed in the third chapter of the \"Visuddhimagga\", which are partially derived from the Pāli Canon.\n\nIn the Pali literature, prior to the post-canonical Pali commentaries, the term \"\" comes up in only a handful of discourses and then in the context of \"work\" or \"trade.\"\n\nThe Thai Forest Tradition names itself \"Kammaṭṭhāna Forest tradition\".\n\nOf the forty objects meditated upon as kammatthana, the first ten are 'things that one can behold directly', 'kasina', or 'a whole': \nThe next ten are objects of repulsion (\"asubha\"): \nTen are recollections (\"anussati\"): \nFour are stations of Brahma (\"Brahma-vihara\"): \nFour are formless states (four \"arūpajhānas\"):\n\nOne is of perception of disgust of food (\"aharepatikulasanna\").\n\nThe last is analysis of the four elements (\"catudhatuvavatthana\"): earth (\"pathavi\"), water (\"apo\"), fire (\"tejo\"), air (\"vayo\").\n\nEach kammatthana can be suggested, especially by a spiritual friend (\"\"), to a certain individual student at some specific point, by assessing what would be best for that student's temperament and the present state of his or her mind.\n\nAccording to Gunaratana, following Buddhaghosa, due to the simplicity of subject matter, all four \"jhanas\" can be induced through \"ānāpānasati\" (mindfulness of breathing) and the ten \"kasinas\".\n\nAccording to Gunaratana, the following meditation subjects only lead to \"access concentration\" (\"upacara samadhi\"), due to their complexity: the recollection of the Buddha, dharma, sangha, morality, liberality, wholesome attributes of Devas, death, and peace; the perception of disgust of food; and the analysis of the four elements.\n\nAbsorption in the first \"jhana\" can be realized by mindfulness on the ten kinds of foulness and mindfulness of the body. However, these meditations cannot go beyond the first jhana due to their involving applied thought (\"vitaka\"), which is absent from the higher jhanas.\n\nAbsorption in the first three \"jhanas\" can be realized by contemplating the first three \"brahma-viharas\". However, these meditations cannot aid in attaining the fourth jhana due to the pleasant feelings associated with them. Conversely, once the fourth jhana is induced, the fourth \"brahma-vihara\" (equanimity) arises.\n\nAll of the aforementioned meditation subjects can suppress the Five Hindrances, thus allowing one to fruitfully pursue wisdom. In addition, anyone can productively apply specific meditation subjects as antidotes, such as meditating on foulness to counteract lust or on the breath to abandon discursive thought.\n\nThe Pali commentaries further provide guidelines for suggesting meditation subjects based on one's general temperament:\n\nThe six non-color \"kasinas\" and the four formless states are suitable for all temperaments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24444919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24444919", "title": "Maimonides' rule", "text": "Maimonides' rule\n\nMaimonides' rule is named after the 12th-century rabbinic scholar Maimonides, who identified a correlation between class size and students' achievements. Today this rule is widely used in educational research to evaluate the effect of class size on students' test scores. Maimonides' rule states that a class size may rise to an upper limit of 40 students. Once this quota is reached the class is cut in half, so instead of one class with forty-one students there are now two classes: one with twenty students and one with twenty-one students.\n\nJoshua Angrist and Victor Lavy (1999) have used \"the nonlinear relationship between the local number of students and the class size predicted by Maimonides' rule to estimate the impact of class size on student performance, and evaluate the effect of being just below the number of students for whom an additional teacher would be brought up, and of being just above this number.\"\n\nTheir results have shown highly irregular patterns in class size that are precisely mirrored in student achievement. They have found that a reduction in predicted class size of ten students is associated with a 0.25 standard deviation increase in fifth-graders' test scores.\n"}
{"id": "24065513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24065513", "title": "Mixed mating model", "text": "Mixed mating model\n\nThe mixed mating model is a mathematical model that describes the mating system of a plant population in terms of the degree of self-fertilisation present. It is a fairly simplistic model, employing several simplifying assumptions, most notably the assumption that every fertilisation event may be classed as either self-fertilisation, or outcrossing with a completely random mate. Thus the only model parameter to be estimated is the probability of self-fertilisation.\n\nThe mixed mating model originated in the 1910s, with plant breeders who were seeking evidence of outcrossing contamination of self-pollinating crops, but a formal description of the model and its parameter estimation was not published until 1951. The model is still in common use today, though a number of more complex models are also now in use. For example, a weakness of the model lies in its assumption that inbreeding occurs only as a result of self-fertilisation; in reality, inbreeding may also occur through outcrossing between closely related individuals. The effective selfing model relaxes this assumption by seeking also to estimate the degree of shared ancestry of outcrossing mates.\n"}
{"id": "655825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=655825", "title": "Naumachia", "text": "Naumachia\n\nThe naumachia (in Latin \"naumachia\", from the Ancient Greek ναυμαχία/\"naumachía\", literally \"naval combat\") in the Ancient Roman world referred to both the staging of naval battles as mass entertainment, and the basin or building in which this took place.\n\nThe first known \"naumachia\" was given by Julius Caesar in Rome in 46 BC on occasion of his quadruple triumph. After having a basin dug near the Tiber, capable of holding actual biremes, triremes and quinqueremes, he made 2000 combatants and 4000 rowers, all prisoners of war, fight. In 2 BC on the occasion of the inauguration of the Temple of Mars Ultor (\"Mars the Avenger\"), Augustus gave a naumachia based on Caesar's model. As cited in Res Gestæ (§ 23), he created a basin on the right bank of the Tiber where 3000 men, not counting rowers, fought in 30 vessels with rams and a number of smaller boats.\n\nClaudius gave a \"naumachia\" in 52 AD on a natural body of water, Fucine Lake, to celebrate the completion of drainage work and tunneling on the site. The combatants were prisoners who had been condemned to death. Suetonius' account, written many years after the event, has them salute the emperor with the phrase \"morituri te salutant\" (\"those who are about to die salute you\"). There is no evidence that this form of address was used on any occasion other than this single naumachia. \n\nThe naumachia was thus a bloodier show than gladiatorial combat, which consisted of smaller engagements and where the combat did not necessarily end with the death of the losers. More exactly, the appearance of naumachia is closely tied and only slightly earlier than that other spectacle, \"group combat\", which did not pit single combatants against one another, but rather used two small armies. There again, the combatants were frequently those on death row and did not have the specialized training of true gladiators. Caesar, creator of the naumachia, simply had to transpose the same principle to another environment.\n\nThrough the choreography of the combat, the naumachia had the ability to represent historical or pseudo-historical themes. Each of the fleets participating represented a maritime power of Ancient Greece or the Hellenistic east: Egyptians and the Tyrians for Caesar’s naumachia, Persians and Athenians for that of Augustus, Sicilians and Rhodeans for that of Claudius. It required significantly greater resources than other such entertainments, and as such these spectacles were reserved for exceptional occasions, closely tied to celebrations of the emperor, his victories and his monuments. The specific nature of the spectacle as well as the historical themes borrowed from the Greek world are closely tied to the term naumachia. This word, a phonetic transcription of the Greek word for a naval battle (ναυμαχία / naumakhía), has since come to also refer to the large artificial basins created for them.\n\nCaesar’s naumachia was probably a simple basin dug into the low-lying ground on the northern or southern banks of the Tiber, and fed by its waters; the exact location is unknown; most likely Trastavere or the Campus Martius. The naumachia of Augustus is better known: in his Res Gestæ (23) Augustus himself indicates that the basin measured 1800 x 1200 Roman feet (approximately 533 x 355 meters). Pliny the Elder (\"Natural History\", 16, 200), describes an island formed in the center, probably rectangular and connected to the shore by a bridge where the privileged spectators likely sat.\n\nTaking into consideration the size of the basin and the dimensions of a trireme (approximately 35 x 4.90 meters), the thirty vessels used would hardly be able to manoeuvre. Knowing that the crew of a Roman trireme was approximately 170 rowers and 50 to 60 soldiers, a simple calculation allows us to see that to achieve the number of 3000 men the vessels of Augustus' fleet would have to have held more combatants than an actual fleet. The spectacle thus focused less on the movement of the vessels than the actual presence of them in the artificial basin, and the hand-to-hand combat which developed.\n\nIt was different for Claudius' naumachia. The two fleets each consisted of 50 vessels, which corresponds to the number of vessels in each of the two military fleets based at Misenum and at Ravenna. Lake Fucino was large enough that only part of it was needed, surrounded by pontoons, and there was room enough for the vessels to manoeuvre and ram each other. The naumachia of Claudius therefore truly reproduced naval combat.\n\nAccording to Sextus Julius Frontinus in \"De aquaeductu\" (\"De aquis urbis Romæ\", 11, 1-2 : opus naumachiæ), the water supply for the naumachia of Augustus was specially constructed, with the surplus used to water neighbouring gardens in the Trans Tiberim. This was the Aqua Alsietina aqueduct, remains of which have been found on the slopes of Janiculum (the \"8th hill of Rome\") below the monastery of San Cosimato. There are several theories as to the precise location of the site; the latest of which places it between Via Aurelia in the north and the church of San Francesco a Ripa in the southeast, in the loop of the Tiber. The republican viaduct discovered in the Via Aurelia near San Crisogono may also have served as a conduit for the basin. \n\nThe basin did not last very long. During the reign of Augustus it was partly replaced (Suetonius, \"Augustus\", 43, 1) by the \"nemus Cæsarum\" (sacred forest of the Caesars), later renamed \"forest of Gaius and Lucius\" for the grandsons of Augustus (Dion Cassius, 66, 25, 3). This vast area was probably built upon by the end of the 1st century.\n\nA new development occurred during the reign of Nero: a naumachia in an amphitheatre. Suetonius (\"Nero\", XII, 1) and Dio Cassius (\"Roman History\", LXI, 9, 5) speak of such a spectacle in 57 AD in a wooden amphitheatre inaugurated by the last of the Julio-Claudian dynasty. Nothing is known of the site other than that it was built on the Campus Martius. Nero presented another \"naumachia\" in 64 AD. This was preceded by hunts and followed by gladiatorial combat and a great banquet (Dio Cassius, LXII, 15, 1). It is unknown what form these games took. It was probably the same wooden amphitheatre, given that there is no mention of its destruction before the great fire of Rome which happened shortly afterwards. \n\nFor the inauguration of the Colosseum in 80 AD, Titus gave two \"naumachiae\", one in the Augustinian basin, again using several thousand men, and the other in the new amphitheatre (Dion Cassius, LXVI, 25, 1-4). According to Suetonius (\"Domitian\", IV, 6-7), Domitian organised a \"naumachia\" inside the Colosseum, undoubtedly circa 85 AD, and another one in the year 89 AD in a new basin dug beyond the Tiber; with the stone removed serving to repair the Circus Maximus, which had burnt on two sides. It was probably in the time between these two \"naumachia\" that Domitian completed the network of rooms underneath the Colosseum that are visible today, at the same time precluding such spectacles in the arena. \n\nThe arena at the Colosseum only measured 79.35 x 47.20 meters, far removed from the dimensions of the Augustinian basin. A \"naumachia\" in the Colosseum could therefore not have been as grand as the previous ones. One can imagine a confrontation between the crews of several reproductions of warships, potentially life-size or reasonably close to it, but actual maneuvers or even floating seems doubtful. It is known that stage-props were used to represent ships, sometimes with mechanisms to simulate shipwrecks, both on stage and in the arena (Tacitus, \"Annales\", XIV, 6, 1 ; Dion Cassius LXI, 12,2).\n\nThe use of enough water to float vessels in amphitheatres raises technical questions. Amphitheatres were not exclusively used for \"naumachiae\"; they would have been filled and drained rapidly enough for use in gladiatorial combats and other spectacles. The rapid transition between water shows and earth-based shows seems to have been one of the great attractions. Dion Cassius underscores this as it relates to Nero's \"naumachia\" (LXI, 9, 5); Martial does as well speaking of Titus' \"naumachia\" in the Colosseum (\"Book of Spectacles\", XXIV). The only surviving written sources offer no descriptions of the mechanisms or engineering involved. Archaeology provides no clues: the basement of the Colosseum has since been modified. Only two provincial amphitheatres, those at Verona and Mérida, Spain, provide any technical evidence.\n\nThe central pit of the Verona amphitheatre was deeper than the rooms normally found underneath the arena, and served as a basin. It was connected to two axial conduits. One, circulating under the West gallery of the arena, was not connected to the drainage system and had to be connected to an aqueduct in order to fill the basin. The East conduit was deeper and designed to drain water into the Adige River. The basin at the Mérida amphitheatre, at only 1.5 meters, was shallower than that at Verona. Because it is so shallow—less than the height of a standing man—it cannot be confused with an underground service room. This basin was equipped with access stairs and covered with material similar to that used for swimming pools and Roman baths. It was also served by two conduits, the western one of which connected to the nearby San Lazaro aqueduct.\n\nThe dimensions of these basins rule out any but the most basic of \"naumachiae\": the one at Mérida measures a mere 18.5 x 3.7 meters. Only the most modest of water spectacles could have taken place here. This leads one to conclude that, even assuming that the Colosseum had a similar basin before construction of the \"hypogeum\" (underground complex), \"naumachiae\" would have been performed on only a shallow layer of water covering the surface of the arena, the minimum required to float the ships.\n\nThe introduction of new technologies initially led to an increased number of \"naumachia\". The first three \"naumachia\" were spaced about 50 years apart; the following six, most of which took place in amphitheatres, occurred in a space of 30 years. Less costly in material and human terms, they could afford to be staged more frequently. Less grandiose, they became a feature of the games, but could not be considered exceptional. The iconography bears witness to this. Of some twenty representations of a \"naumachia\" in Roman art, nearly all are of the Fourth Style, of the time of Nero and the Flavian dynasty.\n\nAfter the Flavian period, \"naumachiae\" disappear from the texts almost completely. Apart from a mention in the \"Augustan History\", a late source of limited reliability, only the town records (\"fastia\") of Ostia tells us that in 109 Trajan inaugurated a \"naumachia\" basin. This site was discovered in the 18th century on the grounds of the Vatican City, behind the Castel Sant'Angelo. Subsequent digs have revealed the complete site plan. It had bleachers (tiered stands for spectators) and the surface was about one sixth the size of the Augustan \"naumachia\". In the absence of any texts, it has to be assumed that it was only used at the time of Trajan.\n\nNevertheless, if late Roman Empire sources and persistence into the Middle Ages in terms of the toponymy of \"naumachia\" and \"dalmachia\" at the site are taken into consideration, it still existed into the 5th century. Moreover, the presence of bleachers on its perimeter is a strong indicator of regular shows. According to the Ostia municipal records, the inauguration involved 127 pairs of gladiators; leading one to believe that as in the amphitheatre, the restrictive space at Trajan's basin was not conducive to large combats involving many untrained prisoners, or would have required over-simplification of naval combats, leading to a preference for single combat. In this form, and with a dedicated site, \"naumachiae\" could easily have continued (though likely at a reducing frequency) for several centuries without mention in sources, as they would not have been particularly worthy of mention: they simply lost their grandeur and impressive character.\n\nIn the provinces, the influence of Roman \"naumachiae\" is easily discernible, but limited and reduced to local and innocuous naval games and re-enactments. A competition which went under the name of \"naumaciva\" was part of the Panathenaic Games between the Athenian Ephebos from the Flavian period onward. It replaced the regattas which had taken place at these games earlier. If Ausonius is to be believed, (Moselle, 200-2,29), a \"naumachia\" was held on the Moselle River between local youth.\n\nA \"naumachia\" was performed for Henry II of France in Rouen in 1550. Another was held in Milan for Napoleon in 1807.\n\nParc Monceau in Paris features a \"naumachia\" water feature, surrounded by a colonnade. In 18th and 19th century England, several parks featured mock naval battles with model ships, which were also referred to as \"naumachia\". Peasholm Park in Scarborough, England, still stages such an event. Smaller, theatre-based aqua dramas were also popular. \n\nNew York artist Duke Riley staged a naumachia in 2009 at the Queens Museum of Art.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31119406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31119406", "title": "Neeti Sastra", "text": "Neeti Sastra\n\nNeeti Saara or Neeti Sastra is a popular collection of morals written by Baddena, a Telugu poet. Baddena (1220-1280? AD) is the composer of the most famous Sumathi Satakam as well as Niti Sastra. Complete details about his origin are not known. But, He was believed to be a Chola prince and was called as Bhadra Bhupala. He was a Samanta Raju (vassal) under the Kakateeya Rudrama Devi (reign: 1262-1296 AD) during the thirteenth century.\nIn the post mauryan age, kamandhaka wrote 'neetisara' based on kautilya's artha shastra and serves as an important literary source of guptan age.\nTranslated to malayalam :Sri K Chandrasekharan Nair in 1951 September \nClick below \nhttps://doc-0k-4o-docs.googleusercontent.com/docs/securesc/ha0ro937gcuc7l7deffksulhg5h7mbp1/jmlgndk6em1h43te7j7ps4cuuqakqcp6/1534752000000/05756752074247094810/*/0BwQK3MFNQXuZNFBHQ0VhWXRZYzA?e=download\n\n1. I shall expound Nitisara (essence of maxims on right conduct) compiled from all scriptures, bowing down to Vishnu, the lord of the universe.\n\n2. Listen to the complete essence of dharma (right action) and contemplate on it. “Do not do unto others what one would not like others to do unto oneself”.\n\n3. Do not act without examining the situation carefully; one ought to act only after scrutinizing the situation carefully. Otherwise, one will have to grieve like the brahmani (Brahman woman) who killed the mongoose (1).\n\n4. Man is bound to experience the fruits of his good and bad actions. The karma does not diminish even after billions of days of Brahma (2) unless one experiences fruits of karma.\n\n5. One cannot earn or retain wealth without undergoing suffering. There is suffering in earning wealth as well as in spending it. Is not wealth the home of suffering?\n\n6. Only a learned person can understand the hardship borne by another learned person to earn knowledge just as a barren woman cannot understand the severe pain endured by a pregnant woman.\n\n7. The parents who do not educate a child are his enemies since he is humiliated in an assembly of learned men like a crane among swans.\n\n8. Onion does not lose its smell even if it is planted in a basin of Camphor, tended using musk and watered using the dew from rose petals.\n\n9. A student acquires quarter of knowledge from the teacher, a quarter from self study, a quarter from class mates and the final quarter in course of time.\n\n10. When a girl is getting married, the father of the girl looks for education in the bride groom; the mother for wealth, the kith and kin for family reputation and the girl for beauty.\n\n11. A scorpion has poison in its tail. A bee has poison in its head. Takshaka has poison in its teeth. An evil person has poison in all his limbs.\n\n12. Sky is the strength of birds, water the strength of fish; king the strength of the weak and wailing the strength of babies.\n\n13. Renounce that wife who is quarrelsome, steals money, faithless and speaks ill of her husband, eats before feeding her husband or children and visits others‟ houses, even if she is the mother of ten sons.\n\n14. An ideal wife will have these six virtues – she will be like a counselor in dealing with various situations, like a maid servant in serving her husband, like Goddess Lakshmi in beauty, like the earth in patience, like a mother in giving love and be like a Courtesan in bedroom.\n\n15. Keep aloof from a horse that is drenched in water, mad elephant, bull that is maddened with lust and an uncultured man who is educated.\n\n16. Helping an evil person will cause harm to one even as feeding milk to a snake will only increase its poison.\n\n17. The fruit of giving charity to a knower of Truth (Brahma Jnani) multiplies like an arrow, shot by Arjuna that turns into ten arrows when he takes aim, hundred when he shoots them, thousand on the way and a shower of arrows when they hit the target.\n\n18. Even God does not know about the leaps of a horse, roaring of clouds, minds of women, destiny of man, lack of rain or excess of rain. Then how can a man know these?\n\n19. Attainment of wealth by an incompetent person, knowledge by a man of ignoble descent, a woman by undeserving person, etc. are in vain like the rainfall on a mountain.\n\n20. Win the whole world by truth, sorrow by charity, elders by service and the enemies by archery.\n\n21. Jati (jasmine) among flowers, Vishnu among men, Rambha among women, Kanchi among cities, Ganges among rivers, Rama among kings, Magha among poetic compositions and Kalidasa among poets excel the others.\n\n22. He who gives birth, takes one to the Guru, imparts knowledge, gives food and protects one from fear – these five are equal to father.\n\n23. The wives of teacher, king and elder brother, the mother-in-law and the mother who gave birth – these five are mothers.\n\n24. Keep a distance of 5 hasta3 (cubits) from a vehicle, ten cubits from a horse and 1000 cubits from an elephant. Keep as much away as possible from an evil person.\n\n25. In childhood, a woman is protected by her father, by her husband in her youth and by her sons in her old age. A woman should never be left alone to fend for herself.\n\n26. The snake and the wicked person are both dangerous. The poison of a snake can be neutralized by mantra or medicine while there is no mantra or medicine that can remove the poison of a wicked person.\n\n27. Longevity, deeds, prosperity, knowledge and death of a person are decided even while he is in the mother‟s womb.\n\n28. Ordinary poison is insignificant when compared to the poison of the sin of usurping the property of a Brahmin (one who is virtuous). Poison kills only one person while the sin of usurping the property of a Brahmin destroys three generations (oneself, one‟s children and grand children).\n\n29. Having two wives in spite of being poor, building a house on a road, doing cultivation in two different places, becoming a witness or bail in a lawsuit are the five self-sought misfortunes.\n\n30. Seeing the elephants, snakes and birds in bondage, the eclipse of the sun and the moon and the poverty of the wise men I conclude that destiny is inevitable.\n\n31. Those who are uneducated do not shine even if they are endowed with beauty and youth and are born in renowned families just like kimsuka (4) flowers which are beautiful but odourless.\n\n32. Those who have one wife, three sons, and two ploughs, six cows and a house in the centre of a country are immensely fortunate.\n\n33. Clothing is the prime requisite for decorations, ghee is the foremost requisite for food, virtue is the foremost requisite for women and knowledge is the chief requisite of scholars.\n\n34. Ant-hill, honey in a honey-comb, moon in bright half of the month, wealth of the king and food received by begging, grow gradually.\n\n35. Truth is my mother, knowledge is my father, righteousness is my brother, compassion is my friend, peace is my wife and patience is my son. These six are my kith and kin.\n\n36. The Sun sets daily taking away a part of one's longevity. Knowing this, one should reflect daily what righteous action one has performed.\n\n37. Speaking sweet words to the wicked is like offering a garland of exquisite flowers into the hands of a monkey.\n\n38. Morning Sun, smoke from funeral pyre, coitus with old woman, muddy water and eating curd-rice at night increase ill health day by day.\n\n39. Setting Sun, smoke from Homa (sacrificial pyre), coitus with young woman, pure water and eating milk rice at night increase longevity day by day.\n\n40. One's wealth and properties remain at one's home, sons and relatives take leave at cremation ground. It is one's good and evil actions that accompany oneself after death.\n\n41. Righteousness prevails and not unrighteousness. Truth prevails and not untruth. Patience prevails and not anger. Gods prevail and not demons.\n\n42. Stocking grains, taking care of calves, doing cultivation oneself, serving one's elders – these five habits foster one's family.\n\n43. Treat the child like a prince till the age of 5, like a servant till the age of 15. When the son reaches the age of 16, treat him like a friend.\n\n44. Even a wise man perishes by teaching a fool, contact with evil woman and by resorting to the company of the wicked.\n\n45. Save wealth for difficult times; how can the wealthy have difficulties? If one squanders wealth, one will eventually lose all the accumulated wealth.\n\n46. One's physical body, wealth and other resources are transitory. Death is always at hand. Knowing this, a wise man should strive to do righteous actions.\n\n47. One who plants a holy fig tree, a neem tree, an Indian fig tree, ten tamarind trees; three trees each of pomegranate, wood-apple and Emblic Myrobalan and five trees each of mango and coconut will not suffer Hell.\n\n48. Will Neem ever acquire sweetness even if it is grown on top of a mountain of molasses and watered thousands of times with milk?\n\n49. One who is beneficial is a kinsman though he is a stranger. One who is harmful is an enemy though he is a kinsman. When one is seriously sick, herbs from distant forest are used as medicine.\n\n50. The knowledge confined to books, wealth that is in the custody of others and a son who has gone to foreign countries are useful in name only.\n\n51. Company of wife is as good as the treatment given by ten physicians. Sun is ten times beneficial than the care given by wife. Mother is ten times beneficial compared to the Sun. Yellow Myrobalan is ten times beneficial than the mother.\n\n52. Even a virtuous person perishes due to association with the wicked just as the swans that gave refuge to the crows perished because of the evil deeds committed by the crows.\n\n53. The characteristics of the wicked persons and phlegm are surprisingly similar. Both of these are agitated by sweetness and are pacified by bitterness. (Phlegm is agitated by sweet food and is pacified by bitter food while the wicked person is agitated by sweet words and is pacified by bitter words).\n\n54. Enmity comes to an end by death. Youth ends with pregnancy. Anger comes to an end by bowing down. Pride comes to an end by begging before others.\n\n55. He, who renovates or helps to regain the glory of fallen family, abandoned well or lake, dethroned king, refugee, cows, temples and wise men, attains fourfold merit.\n\n56. Profession of an artist or writer is the highest. That of cultivation and trade is mediocre, that of a servant is the lowest and that of a porter is lower than the lowest.\n\n57. A bee pursues fragrance. Lakshmi, the Goddess of wealth pursues a tactful person, water pursues depth. Fate follows intelligence.\n\n58. The following give better results when they are beaten: the wicked, gold, drum, stubborn horse, unchaste woman, sugar-cane, sesamum and uncultured person.\n\n59. I bow down before these six persons – one who gives pure food, one who performs agnihotra (daily fire ritual) everyday, a knower of Vedanta, one who has seen one thousands full moons, one who fasts every month and a chaste woman.\n\n60. Flees desire wounds, kings desire wealth, the wicked persons desire to quarrel and the wise men desire to have peace.\n\n61. The sun stone shines by the mere presence of the Sun. In the same manner, knowledge shines in a disciple by the mere presence of the teacher.\n\n62. One who does not do any charity is in fact a man of renunciation since he leaves behind all his wealth when he dies and goes to the other world empty-handed. I consider the person who does charity as a miser because when he dies he takes with him the fruits of his charity.\n\n63. He is a wise man who sees the wives of others as his mother, the wealth of others like clod of earth and all beings as his own self.\n\n64. Though the blue water lily, lotus, fish and white water lily are born in water, they have different odours.\n\n65. The wealth that is not used for the gods, wise men, relatives or for oneself is destroyed by water, enemy, king and thieves.\n\n66. One, who decides the course of action after intelligent contemplation when confronted with difficult situations, loss of wealth or life-threatening incidents, laughs at the lord of death.\n\n67. The fruit of giving cloth in charity is attainment of kingdom; that of footwear is attainment of vehicle; that of Tamboolam (5) is enjoyment of pleasure. One gains all the above by giving food to the poor.\n\n68. The virtue of cuckoo is voice; the virtue of women is chastity; virtue of Brahmin is knowledge and that of ascetics is patience.\n\n69. The following three are the characteristics of a wicked person: lotus like face, speech as cool as sandal wood and a heart burning with fire (of evil thoughts).\n\n70. Just as a coconut tree bears the weight of coconuts on its head and gives nectarine water throughout its life in return for a little water that was given to it during the first year, a saintly person never forgets the help that he had received.\n\n71. Saints live to serve others just as a river flows, the trees bear fruits and the plants grow not for themselves but for others.\n\n72. One should receive knowledge from a Brahmin (wise man), food at the hands of mother, betal leaves (tamboolam) from one's wife and bracelet (recognition) from the king.\n\n73. Moon is cool. Sandal wood is cooler than the moon. The words of virtuous persons are cooler than moon and sandalwood.\n\n74. Elephant shines by the rut (6), sky by rain clouds, woman by character, horse by speed, temple by regular festivals, speech by grammatical correctness, rivers by swan couples, an assembly by the presence of\nscholars, a family by virtuous son, earth by king and the three worlds by the Sun.\n\n75. One who is jealous, one who speaks untruth, one who is ungrateful and one who carries enmity for a long time – these four are karmachandalas (7)\n\n76. Protect your fame by giving up life. Life is transitory while fame will exist as long as the moon and the stars exist.\n\n77. One who has received knowledge despises the teacher; one who is married, despises the mother; the woman who has given birth to a child, despises the husband; one who has recovered from disease despises the physician.\n\n78. One who wears fragrant flowers on head, keeps the feet always clean, associates with beautiful women, eats food in small quantities, does not sleep on bare ground and does not have union with women on new moon days regains the wealth that was lost previously.\n\n79. The wicked, if they are educated, start arguing unnecessarily; become arrogant if they are rich; if they become powerful, they start tormenting others. At the same time the virtuous persons utilize education, wealth and power for knowledge, charity and protection of others.\n\n80. The following four are the doors to destruction: doing improper actions, opposing groups of people, quarreling with powerful persons and believing in the words of women.\n\n81. One ought to ask the following questions repeatedly before beginning any new venture: What is the ideal time? Who are my friends? What is the ideal place? What are my income and expense? Who am I? What is my strength?\n\n82. One ought to learn one lesson each from lion and crane, four lessons from domestic fowl, five lessons from crow, six lessons from dog and three lessons from donkey.\n\n83. One ought to learn the following virtue from lion: Once a work is begun, one must put maximum effort to complete it whether that work is big or small.\n\n84. A wise man ought to perform his duties knowing the time, place and strength and also having controlled all the senses like a crane.\n\n85. One ought to learn from dog the virtues of getting up early in the morning, fighting, sharing food with near and dear ones and toiling for one's livelihood.\n\n86. One ought to learn from a crow, five virtues of copulating secretly, valour, stocking food, etc. for bad times, impeccability and not believing in anyone.\n\n87. One ought to learn from a dog six virtues: To eat in large quantities when food is available, to be content with even small quantities of food, to have deep sleep, to awaken easily, devotion to master and valour.\n\n88. One ought to learn from a donkey the virtues of carrying load even when one is tired, not caring about heat and cold and always being content.\n\n89. That person who cultivates these twenty virtues, will attain success in all his ventures.\n\n90. Physicians, astrologers and sorcerers received with respect and offered food by everyone while those who have mastered other science do not get even a glass of water.\n\n91. Knowledge is lost by laziness; women are lost when they are in the custody of others; cultivation fails when the quantity of seeds sown is very less; an army without a commander is lost too.\n\n92. Though the Ketaki creeper is infested with snakes; does not bear fruits; is thorny, crooked (winding) and grows in muddy places and is thus not easily accessible, it is liked by all due to the fragrance of its flower. A single virtue nullifies all defects.\n\n93. Fire is the guru of twice-born (those who undertake Vedic studies); Brahmin is the guru of other castes; Husband is the guru of women; A guest is the guru for everyone.\n\n94. Of what use is nobility of family if a person is illiterate? A learned man is respected by Gods too though he does not belong to a noble family.\n\n95. One can acquire knowledge by serving the guru or by offering sufficient wealth in return for the knowledge or by exchanging one branch of knowledge for another. There is no means other than these three to acquire knowledge.\n\n96. Just as a pot is filled continuously falling water drops, knowledge, dharma (virtue) and wealth too increase gradually if one pursues them persistently.\n\n97. One ought to learn both the art of fighting with weapons and knowledge of various arts and sciences. The former is scorned in old age while the latter is always respected. \n\n98. Knowledge is like Kamadhenu, the wishfulfilling cow. Knowledge protects one like a mother when one is in foreign lands. Therefore, knowledge is considered as 'hidden wealth'.\n\n99. Knowledge without application is poison; Food undigested is poison; Assembly is poison for the poor; Young woman is poison for an old man.\n\n100. One's friend during foreign journey is knowledge; wife is friend to one who is at home; medicine is the friend of those who are sick; fruit of good deeds is the friend of the departed soul.\n\n101. Knowledge is extolled by everyone; knowledge is considered great everywhere; one can attain everything with the help of knowledge; a wise man is respected everywhere.\n\n102. A king can never be considered equal to a wise man. King is respected only in his kingdom whereas the wise man is respected everywhere.\n\n103. The life of one who is ignorant is meaningless like the tail of a dog which is of no use in hiding the secret parts or in chasing away the flies that bite the dog.\n\n104. A student who serves the guru attains knowledge just as one who digs the earth gets water from the bottom of the earth.\n\n105. One ought to make each day fruitful by studying at a verse or a part of it; one must spend time in studies, meditation and in doing one's duty.\n\n106. The wise men spend their time enjoying literary works, reading or listening to scriptures while the fools waste their time in grief, sleep or quarrel.\n\n107. An only son who is educated and virtuous brings joy to the whole family happy just as a single moon brings light at night.\n\n108. Ambrosia should be obtained even from poison; gold must be taken even if it lies in filth; knowledge has to be received even from a person of lower social status; a woman of beauty and character should be accepted even if she is from a fallen family.\n\n109. One ought to give one's daughter in marriage into a noble family; One's son must be given proper education; One's enemy must be made to grieve and guide one's dear ones on the path of righteousness.\n\n110. What is impossible for those who are competent? Does distance matter to those who are industrious? Which is foreign land for the learned persons? Who is a stranger for those who talk sweetly?\n\n111. One who is free from modesty attains success and happiness in following matters: In acquiring wealth, grains and knowledge, while eating food and doing business deals.\n\n112. The following are the qualities of a student: eyesight similar to that of a crow, concentration similar to that of a crane, light sleep similar to that of a dog, small quantity of food and simple cloths.\n\n113. The fruit of acquiring a kingdom is that everyone will obey one‟s commands; the fruit of austerity is Brahmacharya (celibacy and study of Vedas); the fruit of education is knowledge; the fruit of wealth is enjoyment and charity.\n\n114. Anger is like the lord of death; greed is like the river Vaitarani (which is very difficult to cross over); knowledge is like Kamadhenu, the wish-fulfilling cow; contentment is like the Nandana garden (which is in Heaven).\n\n115. Virtues adorn beauty; character adorns family; success in work adorns knowledge; enjoyment adorns wealth.\n\n116. Beauty is in vain if one has no virtues; family reputation is of no value for one who has no character; knowledge that doesn't give success is in vain; wealth that is not used for enjoyment is also in vain.\n\n117. Wake from sleep the 7 persons mentioned below: student, servant, traveler, a hungry person, a person struck with fear, a porter and watchman.\n\n1 Here the reference is to the Panchatantra story of the woman who killed a mongoose assuming that it had killed her child. She came to know later that the mongoose had in fact saved the child by killing a snake that was about to bite the child. Thus, she had to grieve on account of her thoughtless action.\n\n2 A kalpa is equal to a day of Brahma the creator. This is equal to 1000 yugas or 432 million human years.\n\n3 Hasta is a unit equal to cubit, a measure of length - equal to 24 angulas or about 18 inches, being the distance between the elbow and the tip of the middle finger\n\n4 A kind of beautiful red blossoms, but without any odour that grow on Palasa (Beutea) tree\n\n5 The leaf of piper-betel, which together with the areca-nut, catechu, chunam (lime), and spices is usually chewed after meals.\n\n6 The juice that exudes from the temples of an elephant in rut\n\n7 A karmachandala is a person belonging to the lowest and most despised of the mixed castes originating from a Sudra father and a Brahmana mother – Practical Sanskrit English Dictionary by VS Apte.\n\n"}
{"id": "26598031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26598031", "title": "Pairwise Stone space", "text": "Pairwise Stone space\n\nIn mathematics and particularly in topology, pairwise Stone space is a bitopological space formula_1 which is pairwise compact, pairwise Hausdorff, and pairwise zero-dimensional.\n\nPairwise Stone spaces are a bitopological version of the Stone spaces.\n\nPairwise Stone spaces are closely related to spectral spaces.\n\nTheorem: If formula_2 is a spectral space, then formula_3 is a pairwise Stone space, where formula_4 is the de Groot dual topology of formula_5 . Conversely, if formula_1 is a pairwise Stone space, then both formula_7 and formula_8 are spectral spaces.\n\n"}
{"id": "19774918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19774918", "title": "Plot (graphics)", "text": "Plot (graphics)\n\nA plot is a graphical technique for representing a data set, usually as a graph showing the relationship between two or more variables. The plot can be drawn by hand or by a mechanical or electronic plotter. Graphs are a visual representation of the relationship between variables, very useful for humans who can quickly derive an understanding which would not come from lists of values. Graphs can also be used to read off the value of an unknown variable plotted as a function of a known one. Graphs of functions are used in mathematics, sciences, engineering, technology, finance, and other areas.\n\nPlots play an important role in statistics and data analysis. The procedures here can broadly be split into two parts: quantitative and graphical. Quantitative techniques are the set of statistical procedures that yield numeric or tabular output. Examples of quantitative techniques include:\nThese and similar techniques are all valuable and are mainstream in terms of classical analysis. There are also many statistical tools generally referred to as graphical techniques. These include:\n\nGraphical procedures such as plots are a short path to gaining insight into a data set in terms of testing assumptions, model selection, model validation, estimator selection, relationship identification, factor effect determination, outlier detection. Statistical graphics give insight into aspects of the underlying structure of the data.\n\nGraphs can also be used to solve some mathematical equations, typically by finding where two plots intersect.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTypes of graphs and their uses vary very widely. A few typical examples are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5295573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5295573", "title": "Preconditioning (adaptation)", "text": "Preconditioning (adaptation)\n\nPreconditioning occurs when an animal is exposed to a stressor or stimulus in order to prepare it for a later encounter with a similar stressor or stimulus. \n\nFor example, in vaccinations, a human is exposed to an artificially weakened virus in order to stimulate the body's immune system to produce antibodies that fight the virus. Then, when the live virus is encountered, the body can vigorously defend against it, already having produced the relevant antibodies. See pre-exposure prophylaxis. \n"}
{"id": "54570780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54570780", "title": "Protocol relating to the status of refugees (1967)", "text": "Protocol relating to the status of refugees (1967)\n\nThe protocol relating to the status of refugees of 1967 broadens the definition of the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees of 1951. The main point of the protocol was to \"grant all refugees the same status irrespective of the effective date of the 1st of January 1951.\"\n\nThe protocol was completed on the 31st of January 1967 in New York City. Switzerland ratified the protocol on the 20th of May 1968. Germany ratified it on the 5th of November, 1969, and Austria ratified it on the 5th of September 1973.\n\nDirective 2011/95 of the European Parliament, derives from this protocol, among other sources.\n"}
{"id": "239287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239287", "title": "Religious terrorism", "text": "Religious terrorism\n\nReligious terrorism is terrorism carried out based on motivations and goals that may have a predominantly religious character or influence.\n\nIn the modern age, after the decline of ideas such as the divine right of kings and with the rise of nationalism, terrorism has more often been based on anarchism, and revolutionary politics. Since 1980, however, there has been an increase in terrorist activity motivated by religion.\n\nFormer United States Secretary of State Warren Christopher has said that terrorist acts in the name of \"religion and ethnic identity\" have become \"one of the most important security challenges we face in the wake of the Cold War.\" However, the political scientists Robert Pape and Terry Nardin, the social psychologists M. Brooke Rogers and colleagues, and the sociologist and religious studies scholar Mark Juergensmeyer have all argued that religion should only be considered one incidental factor and that such terrorism is primarily geopolitical.\n\nAccording to Juergensmeyer, religion and violence have had a symbiotic relationship since before the Crusades and even since before the Bible. He defines religious terrorism as consisting of acts that terrify, the definition of which is provided by the witnesses – the ones terrified – and not by the party committing the act; accompanied by either a religious motivation, justification, organization, or world view. Religion is sometimes used in combination with other factors, and sometimes as the primary motivation. Religious terrorism is intimately connected to current forces of geopolitics.\n\nBruce Hoffman has characterized modern religious terrorism as having three traits:\n\nImportant symbolic acts such as the blood sacrifice link acts of violence to religion and terrorism. Suicide terrorism, self-sacrifice, or martyrdom has throughout history been organized and perpetrated by groups with both political and religious motivations. The Christian tradition has a long history of heterodoxical and heretical groups which stressed self-immolative acts and scholarship has to some degree linked this to modern political groups such as the Irish Republican Army. Suicide terrorism or martyrdom is efficient, inexpensive, easily organized, and extremely difficult to counter, delivering maximum damage for little cost. The shocking nature of a suicide attack also attracts public attention. Glorifying the culture of martyrdom benefits the terrorist organization and inspires more people to join the group. According to one commentator, retaliation against suicide attacks increases the group's sense of victimization and commitment to adhere to doctrine and policy. This process serves to encourage martyrdom, and so suicide terrorism, self-sacrifice, or martyrdom represent \"value for money\". Robert Pape, a political scientist who specializes in suicide terrorism, has made a case for secular motivations and reasons as being the foundations of most suicide attacks, which are often labelled as \"religious\".\n\nTerrorism activities worldwide are supported through not only the organized systems that teach holy war as the highest calling, but also through the legal, illegal, and often indirect methods financing these systems; these sometimes use organizations, including charities, as fronts to mobilize or channel sources and funds. Charities can involve the provision of aid to those in need, and oblations or charitable offerings are fundamental to nearly all religious systems, with sacrifice as a furtherance of the custom.\n\nRobert Pape compiled the first complete database of every documented suicide bombing from 1980–2003. He argues that the news reports about suicide attacks are profoundly misleading – \"There is little connection between suicide terrorism and Islamic fundamentalism, or any one of the world's religions\". After studying 315 suicide attacks carried out over the last two decades, he concludes that suicide bombers' actions stem from political conflict, not religion.\n\nMichael A. Sheehan stated in 2000, \"A number of terrorist groups have portrayed their causes in religious and cultural terms. This is often a transparent tactic designed to conceal political goals, generate popular support and silence opposition.\"\n\nTerry Nardin wrote, \n\"A basic problem is whether religious terrorism really differs, in its character and causes, from political terrorism... defenders of religious terrorism typically reason by applying commonly acknowledged moral principles... But the use (or misuse) of moral arguments does not in fact distinguish religious from nonreligious terrorists, for the latter also rely upon such arguments to justify their acts... political terrorism can also be symbolic... alienation and dispossession... are important in other kinds of violence as well. In short, one wonders whether the expression 'religious terrorism' is more than a journalistic convenience\".<\nProfessor Mark Juergensmeyer wrote, \n\"...religion is not innocent. But it does not ordinarily lead to violence. That happens only with the coalescence of a peculiar set of circumstances – political, social, and ideological – when religion becomes fused with violent expressions of social aspirations, personal pride, and movements for political change.\" \nand \n\"Whether or not one uses 'terrorist' to describe violent acts depends on whether one thinks that the acts are warranted. To a large extent the use of the term depends on one's world view: if the world is perceived as peaceful, violent acts appear to be terrorism. If the world is thought to be at war, violent acts may be regarded as legitimate. They may be seen as preemptive strikes, as defensive tactics in an ongoing battles, or as symbols indicating to the world that it is indeed in a state of grave and ultimate conflict.\"\n\nDavid Kupelian wrote, \"Genocidal madness can't be blamed on a particular philosophy or religion.\"\n\nRiaz Hassan wrote, \"It is politics more than religious fanaticism that has led terrorists to blow themselves up.\"\n\nOn July 2, 2013 in Lahore, 50 Muslim scholars of the Sunni Ittehad Council (SIC) issued a collective fatwa against suicide bombings, the killing of innocent people, bomb attacks, and targeted killings declaring them as Haraam or forbidden.\n\n"}
{"id": "9578417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9578417", "title": "Research on meditation", "text": "Research on meditation\n\nFor the purpose of this article, research on meditation concerns research into the psychological and physiological effects of meditation using the scientific method. In recent years, these studies have increasingly involved the use of modern scientific techniques and instruments, such as fMRI and EEG which are able to directly observe brain physiology and neural activity in living subjects, either during the act of meditation itself, or before and after a meditation effort, thus allowing linkages to be established between meditative practice and changes in brain structure or function.\n\nSince the 1950s hundreds of studies on meditation have been conducted, but many of the early studies were flawed and thus yielded unreliable results. Contemporary studies have attempted to address many of these flaws with the hope of guiding current research into a more fruitful path. In 2013, researchers at Johns Hopkins, publishing in the Journal of the American Medical Association, identified 47 studies that qualify as well-designed and therefore reliable. Based on these studies, they concluded that there is moderate evidence that meditation reduces anxiety, depression, and pain, but there is no evidence that meditation is more effective than active treatment (drugs, exercise, other behavioral therapies). A 2017 commentary was similarly mixed.\n\nThe process of meditation, as well as its effects, is a growing subfield of neurological research. Modern scientific techniques and instruments, such as fMRI and EEG, have been used to study how regular meditation affects individuals by measuring brain and bodily changes.\n\nMeditation is a broad term which encompasses a number of practices.\n\nIn June, 2007 the United States National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH) published an independent, peer-reviewed, meta-analysis of the state of meditation research, conducted by researchers at the University of Alberta Evidence-based Practice Center. The report reviewed 813 studies involving five broad categories of meditation: mantra meditation, mindfulness meditation, yoga, T'ai chi, and Qigong, and included all studies on adults through September 2005, with a particular focus on research pertaining to hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and substance abuse. The report concluded, \"Scientific research on meditation practices does not appear to have a common theoretical perspective and is characterized by poor methodological quality. Firm conclusions on the effects of meditation practices in healthcare cannot be drawn based on the available evidence. Future research on meditation practices must be more rigorous in the design and execution of studies and in the analysis and reporting of results.\" (p. 6) It noted that there is no theoretical explanation of health effects from meditation common to all meditation techniques.\n\nA version of this report subsequently published in the \"Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine\" stated that \"Most clinical trials on meditation practices are generally characterized by poor methodological quality with significant threats to validity in every major quality domain assessed\". This was the conclusion despite a statistically significant increase in quality of all reviewed meditation research, in general, over time between 1956 and 2005. Of the 400 clinical studies, 10% were found to be good quality. A call was made for rigorous study of meditation. These authors also noted that this finding is not unique to the area of meditation research and that the quality of reporting is a frequent problem in other areas of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) research and related therapy research domains.\n\nOf more than 3,000 scientific studies that were found in a comprehensive search of 17 relevant databases, only about 4% had randomised controlled trials (RCTs), which are designed to exclude the placebo effect.\n\nA 2013 statement from the American Heart Association evaluated the evidence for the effectiveness of TM as a treatment for hypertension as \"unknown/unclear/uncertain or not well-established\", and stated: \"Because of many negative studies or mixed results and a paucity of available trials... other meditation techniques are not recommended in clinical practice to lower BP at this time.\"\n\n2017 commentary was similarly mixed, with concerns including the particular characteristics of individuals who tend to participate in mindfulness and meditation research.\n\nOne meta-analysis supported the use of Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) to alleviate symptoms of a variety of mental and physical disorders. A previous study commissioned by the US Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality found that meditation interventions reduce multiple negative dimensions of psychological stress. Other systematic reviews and meta-analysis show that mindfulness meditation has several mental health benefits such as bringing about reductions in depression symptoms, and mindfulness interventions also appear to be a promising intervention for managing depression in youth.\nMindfulness meditation is useful for managing stress, anxiety, and also appears to be effective in treating substance use disorders.\nA recent meta analysis by Hilton et al. (2016) including 30 randomized controlled trials found high quality evidence for improvement in depressive symptoms.\nOther review studies have shown that mindfulness meditation can enhance the psychological functioning of breast cancer survivors, effective for eating disorders, and may also be effective in treating psychosis.\n\nStudies have also shown that rumination and worry contribute to mental illnesses such as depression and anxiety, and mindfulness-based interventions are effective in the reduction of worry.\n\nSome studies suggest that mindfulness meditation contributes to a more coherent and healthy sense of self and identity, when considering aspects such as sense of responsibility, authenticity, compassion, self-acceptance and character.\n\nIn the relatively new field of western psychological mindfulness, researchers attempt to define and measure the results of mindfulness primarily through controlled, randomised studies of mindfulness intervention on various dependent variables. The participants in mindfulness interventions measure many of the outcomes of such interventions subjectively. For this reason, several mindfulness inventories or scales (a set of questions posed to a subject whose answers output the subject's aggregate answers in the form of a rating or category) have arisen. Twelve such methods are mentioned by the Mindfulness Research Guide\n\nIn 2011, National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH) released findings from a study in which magnetic resonance images were taken of the brains of 16 participants 2 weeks before and after the participants joined the mindfulness meditation (MM) program by researchers from Massachusetts General Hospital, Bender Institute of Neuroimaging in Germany, and the University of Massachusetts Medical School. Researchers concluded that The analgesic effect of MM involves multiple brain mechanisms including the activation of the anterior cingulate cortex and the ventromedial prefrontal cortex. In addition, brief periods of MM training increases the amount of grey matter in the hippocampus and parietal lobe. Other neural changes resulting from MM may increase the efficiency of attentional control.\n\nParticipation in MBSR programmes has been found to correlate with decreases in right basolateral amygdala gray matter density, and increases in gray matter concentration within the left hippocampus.\n\nMindfulness meditation also appears to bring about favorable structural changes in the brain, though more research needs to be done because most of these studies are small and have weak methodology. One recent study found a significant cortical thickness increase in individuals who underwent a brief -8 weeks- MBSR training program and that this increase was coupled with a significant reduction of several psychological indices related to worry, state anxiety, depression. Another study describes how mindfulness based interventions target neurocognitive mechanisms of addiction at the attention-appraisal-emotion interface.\nA meta-analysis by Fox et al. (2014) using results from 21 brain imaging studies found consistent differences in the region of the prefrontal cortex and other brain regions associated with body awareness. In terms of effect size the mean effect was rated as moderate. (Cohen's d = 0.46) However the results should be interpreted with caution because funnel plots indicate that publication bias is an issue in meditation research.\nA follow up by Fox et al. (2016) using 78 functional neuro-imaging studies suggests that different meditation styles are reliably associated with different brain activity. Activations in some brain regions are usually accompanied by deactivation in others. This finding suggests that meditation research must put emphasis on comparing practices from the same style of meditation, for example results from studies investigating focused attention methods cannot be compared to results from open monitoring approaches.\n\nPsychological and Buddhist conceptualisations of mindfulness both highlight awareness and attention training as key components, in which levels of mindfulness can be cultivated with practise of mindfulness meditation. Focused attention meditation and open monitoring meditation are distinct types of mindfulness meditation, and the former relates to directing and maintaining attention on a chosen object (e.g. the breath). Open monitoring meditation does not involve focus on a specific object, and instead awareness is grounded in the perceptual features of one’s environment.\n\nFocused attention meditation is typically practiced first to increase the ability to enhance attentional stability, and awareness of mental states with the goal being to transition to open monitoring meditation practise that emphasizes the ability to monitor moment-by-moment changes in experience, without a focus of attention to maintain. Mindfulness meditation may lead to greater cognitive flexibility \n\n\"Sustained attention\"\n\n\"Selective attention\"\n\n\"Executive control attention\"\n\nReductions in rumination have been found following Mindfulness meditation practise.\n\nEmotional reactivity can be measured and reflected in brain regions related to the production of emotions. It can also be reflected in tests of attentional performance, indexed in poorer performance in attention related tasks. The regulation of emotional reactivity as initiated by attentional control capacities can be taxing to performance, as attentional resources are limited \n\nIt is debated as to whether top-down executive control regions such as the Dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), are required or not to inhibit reactivity of the amygdala activation related to the production of evoked emotional responses. Arguably an initial increase in activation of executive control regions developed during mindfulness training may lessen with increasing mindfulness expertise \n\nAn 8 week mindfulness course given to students was found to reduce the number subsequently needing treatment for mental illness by 60%, although the study was not of large size and commented that the effect could be due to 'non-specific effects', as the control group had received no attention at all, rather than an alternative intervention.\n\nA large part of mindfulness research is dependent on technology. As new technology continues to be developed, new imaging techniques will become useful in this field. Real-time fMRI might give immediate feedback and guide participants through the programs. It could also be used to more easily train and evaluate mental states during meditation itself. The new technology in the upcoming years offers many exciting potentials for the continued research.\n\nVipassana meditation is a component of Buddhist philosophy. Phra Taweepong Inwongsakul and Sampath Kumar from the University of Mysore have been studying the effects of this meditation on 120 students by measuring the associated increase of cortical thickness in the brain. The results of this study are inconclusive.\n\nSahaja yoga meditation is regarded as a mental silence meditation, and has been shown to correlate with particular brain and brain wave characteristics. One study has led to suggestions that Sahaja meditation involves 'switching off' irrelevant brain networks for the maintenance of focused internalized attention and inhibition of inappropriate information. Sahaja meditators appear to benefit from lower depression and scored above control group for emotional well-being and mental health measures on SF-36 ratings.\n\nA study comparing practitioners of Sahaja Yoga meditation with a group of non meditators doing a simple relaxation exercise, measured a drop in skin temperature in the meditators compared to a rise in skin temperature in the non meditators as they relaxed. The researchers noted that all other meditation studies that have observed skin temperature have recorded increases and none have recorded a decrease in skin temperature. This suggests that Sahaja Yoga meditation, being a mental silence approach, may differ both experientially and physiologically from simple relaxation.\n\nKundalini Yoga has proved to increase the prevention of cognitive decline and evaluate the response of biomarkers to treatment, thereby shedding light on the underlying mechanisms of the link between Kundalini Yoga and cognitive impairment. For the study, 81 participants aged 55 and older who had subjective memory complaints and met criteria for mild cognitive impairment, indicated by a total score of 0.5 on the Clinical Dementia Rating Scale. The results showed that at 12 weeks, both the yoga group showed significant improvements in recall memory and visual memory and showed significant sustained improvement in memory up to the 24-week follow-up, the yoga group showed significant improvement in verbal fluency and sustained significant improvements in executive functioning at week 24. In addition, the yoga cohort showed significant improvement in depressive symptoms, apathy, and resilience from emotional stress. This research was provided by Helen Lavretsky, M.D. and colleagues. In another study, Kundalini Yoga did not show significant effectiveness in treating obsessive-compulsive disorders compared with Relaxation/Meditation.\n\nThe first Transcendental Meditation (TM) research studies were conducted at UCLA and Harvard University and published in \"Science\" and the \"American Journal of Physiology\" in 1970 and 1971. However, much research has been of poor quality, including a high risk for bias due to the connection of researchers to the TM organization and the selection of subjects with a favorable opinion of TM. Independent systematic reviews have not found health benefits for TM exceeding those of relaxation and health education. A 2013 statement from the American Heart Association described the evidence supporting TM as a treatment for hypertension as Level IIB, meaning that TM \"may be considered in clinical practice\" but that its effectiveness is \"unknown/unclear/uncertain or not well-established\". In another study, TM proved comparable with other kinds of relaxation therapies in reducing anxiety.\n\nThe medial prefrontal and posterior cingulate cortices have been found to be relatively deactivated during meditation (experienced meditators using concentration, lovingkindness and choiceless awareness meditation). In addition experienced meditators were found to have stronger coupling between the posterior cingulate, dorsal anterior cingulate, and dorsolateral prefrontal cortices both when meditating and when not meditating.\n\nA meta analysis found meditation gave some benefits, but no evidence that it was better than other treatments, for mental illness.\n\nMeditation has been shown to change grey matter concentrations and the precuneus.\n\nAn eight-week MBSR course induced changes in gray matter concentrations. Exploratory whole brain analyses identified significant increases in gray matter concentration in the PCC, TPJ, and the cerebellum. These results suggest that participation in MBSR is associated with changes in gray matter concentration in brain regions involved in learning and memory processes, emotion regulation, self-referential processing, and perspective taking.\n\nStudies have shown that meditation has both short-term and long-term effects on various perceptual faculties. In 1984 a study showed that meditators have a significantly lower detection threshold for light stimuli of short duration. In 2000 a study of the perception of visual illusions by zen masters, novice meditators, and non-meditators showed statistically significant effects found for the Poggendorff Illusion but not for the Müller-Lyer Illusion. The zen masters experienced a statistically significant reduction in initial illusion (measured as error in millimeters) and a lower decrement in illusion for subsequent trials. Tloczynski has described the theory of mechanism behind the changes in perception that accompany mindfulness meditation thus: \"A person who meditates consequently perceives objects more as directly experienced stimuli and less as concepts… With the removal or minimization of cognitive stimuli and generally increasing awareness, meditation can therefore influence both the quality (accuracy) and quantity (detection) of perception.\" Brown also points to this as a possible explanation of the phenomenon: \"[the higher rate of detection of single light flashes] involves quieting some of the higher mental processes which normally obstruct the perception of subtle events.\" In other words, the practice may temporarily or permanently alter some of the top-down processing involved in filtering subtle events usually deemed noise by the perceptual filters.\n\nHerbert Benson, founder of the Mind-Body Medical Institute, which is affiliated with Harvard University and several Boston hospitals, reports that meditation induces a host of biochemical and physical changes in the body collectively referred to as the \"relaxation response\". The relaxation response includes changes in metabolism, heart rate, respiration, blood pressure and brain chemistry. Benson and his team have also done clinical studies at Buddhist monasteries in the Himalayan Mountains. Benson wrote \"The Relaxation Response\" to document the benefits of meditation, which in 1975 were not yet widely known.\n\nAccording to an article in \"Psychological Bulletin\", EEG activity slows as a result of meditation. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) has written, \"It is thought that some types of meditation might work by reducing activity in the sympathetic nervous system and increasing activity in the parasympathetic nervous system,\" or equivalently, that meditation produces a reduction in arousal and increase in relaxation.\n\nAlthough the most common modern characterization of Buddhist meditation is a ‘relaxation’ technique, both scientific studies and Buddhist textual sources proves meditation’s arousing or wake-promoting effects. Meditations aiming at improving meta-cognitive skills and compassion (e.g. loving-kindness meditation) are associated with physiological arousal, compared to breathing meditation. Theravada (i.e.Vipassana) styles of meditation induce relaxation responses, while Vajrayana styles of meditation induce arousal responses. Short term meditation training enables the voluntary activation of the Sympathetic Nervous System (SNS) results in epinephrine release. When the SNS is activated, human body is turning into ‘fight or flight’ mode, whereas the PNS is termed the ‘rest and digest’ mode. For example, when SNS is activated, heart rate, blood pressure, and respiration will be increased, and catecholamines will be produced, while heart rate variability and galvanic skin resistance will be decreased. Therefore, Relaxing meditation seems to correspond to PNS dominance, and arousing meditation seems to correspond to SNS dominance.\n\nAging is a process accompanied by a decrease in brain weight and volume. This phenomenon can be explained by structural changes in the brain, namely, a loss of grey matter. Some studies over the last decade have implicated meditation as a protective factor against normal age-related brain atrophy. The first direct evidence for this link emerged from a study investigating changes in the cortical thickness of meditators. The researchers found that regular meditation practice was able to reduce age-related thinning of the frontal cortex, albeit, these findings were restricted to particular regions of the brain. A similar study looked to further expand on this finding by including a behavioural component. Consistent with the previous study, meditators did not show the expected negative correlation between grey matter volume and age. In addition, the results for meditators on the behavioural test, measuring attentional performance, were comparable across all age groups. This implies that meditation can potentially protect against age-related grey matter loss and age-related cognitive decline. Since then, more research has supported the notion that meditation serves as a neuroprotective factor that slows age-related brain atrophy. Still, all studies have been cross sectional in design. Furthermore, these results merely describe associations and do not make causal inferences. Further work using longitudinal and experimental designs may help solidify the causal link between meditation and grey matter loss. Since few studies have investigated this direct link, however insightful they may be, there is not sufficient evidence for a conclusive answer.\n\nResearch has also been conducted on the malleable determinants of cellular aging in an effort to understand human longevity. Researchers have stated, \"We have reviewed data linking stress arousal and oxidative stress to telomere shortness. Meditative practices appear to improve the endocrine balance toward positive arousal (high DHEA, lower cortisol) and decrease oxidative stress. Thus, meditation practices may promote mitotic cell longevity both through decreasing stress hormones and oxidative stress and increasing hormones that may protect the telomere.\"\n\nStudies have shown meditators to have higher happiness than control groups, although this may be due to non-specific factors such as meditators having better general self-care.\n\nYongey Mingyur Rinpoche has said that neuro scientists have found that with meditation, an individual's happiness baseline can change.\n\nPositive relationships have been found between the volume of gray matter in the right precuneus area of the brain and both meditation and the subject's subjective happiness score.\n\nThe following is an official statement from the US government-run National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health:\n\"Meditation is considered to be safe for healthy people. There have been rare reports that meditation could cause or worsen symptoms in people who have certain psychiatric problems, but this question has not been fully researched. People with physical limitations may not be able to participate in certain meditative practices involving physical movement. Individuals with existing mental or physical health conditions should speak with their health care providers prior to starting a meditative practice and make their meditation instructor aware of their condition.\"\n\nAdverse effects have been reported, and may, in some cases, be the result of \"improper use of meditation\". The NIH advises prospective meditators to \"ask about the training and experience of the meditation instructor… [they] are considering.\"\n\nAs with any practice, meditation may also be used to avoid facing ongoing problems or emerging crises in the meditator's life. In such situations, it may instead be helpful to apply mindful attitudes acquired in meditation while actively engaging with current problems. According to the NIH, meditation should not be used as a replacement for conventional health care or as a reason to postpone seeing a doctor.\n\nMeditation reduces pain perception.\n\nAlthough we can now scan the brain, inferring value from blood movements in a human brain remains debatable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1470302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1470302", "title": "Russell–Einstein Manifesto", "text": "Russell–Einstein Manifesto\n\nThe Russell–Einstein Manifesto was issued in London on 9 July 1955 by Bertrand Russell in the midst of the Cold War. It highlighted the dangers posed by nuclear weapons and called for world leaders to seek peaceful resolutions to international conflict. The signatories included eleven pre-eminent intellectuals and scientists, including Albert Einstein, who signed it just days before his death on 18 April 1955. A few days after the release, philanthropist Cyrus S. Eaton offered to sponsor a conference—called for in the manifesto—in Pugwash, Nova Scotia, Eaton's birthplace. This conference was to be the first of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs, held in July 1957.\n\nThe first detonation of an atomic weapon took place on 16 July 1945 in the desert north of Alamogordo, New Mexico. On 6 August 1945, the US dropped \"Little Boy\" on the Japanese city of Hiroshima and, three days later, \"Fat Man\" on Nagasaki. At least 100,000 civilians were killed outright by these two bombings.\n\nOn 18 August 1945, the \"Glasgow Forward\" published \"The Bomb and Civilisation,\" the first known recorded comment by Bertrand Russell on atomic weapons, which he began composing the day Nagasaki was bombed. It contained threads that would later appear in the manifesto:\n\nAfter learning of the bombing of Hiroshima and seeing an impending nuclear arms race, Joseph Rotblat, the only scientist to leave the Manhattan Project on moral grounds, remarked that he \"became worried about the whole future of mankind\".\n\nOver the years that followed Russell and Rotblat worked on efforts to curb nuclear proliferation, collaborating with Albert Einstein and other scientists to compose what became known as the Russell–Einstein Manifesto.\n\nThe manifesto was released during a press conference at Caxton Hall, London. Rotblat, who chaired the meeting, describes it as follows:\n\nRussell had begun the conference by stating:\n\nThe manifesto called for a conference where scientists would assess the dangers posed to the survival of humanity by weapons of mass destruction. Emphasis was placed on the meeting being politically neutral. It extended the question of nuclear weapons to all people and governments. One particular phrase is quoted often, including by Rotblat upon receipt of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1995:\n\nThe manifesto called for an international conference, and was originally planned by Jawaharlal Nehru to be held in India. This was delayed by the outbreak of the Suez Crisis. Aristotle Onassis offered to finance a meeting in Monaco, but this was rejected. Instead, Cyrus Eaton, a Canadian industrialist who had known Russell since 1938, offered to finance the conference in his hometown of Pugwash, Nova Scotia. The Russell–Einstein Manifesto became the Pugwash Conferences' founding charter. The first of the conferences was held in July 1957 in London.\n\nTen of the eleven signatories of the Russell–Einstein Manifesto are Nobel Laureates, the exception being Leopold Infeld.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2941610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2941610", "title": "Secondary deviance", "text": "Secondary deviance\n\nFrom a sociological perspective, deviance is defined as the violation or drift from the accepted social norms.\n\nSecondary deviance is a stage in a theory of deviant identity formation. Introduced by Edwin Lemert in 1951, primary deviance is engaging in the initial act of deviance, he subsequently suggested that secondary deviance is the process of a deviant identity, integrating it into conceptions of self, potentially affecting the individual long term. For example, if a gang engaged in primary deviant behavior such as acts of violence, dishonesty or drug addiction, subsequently moved to legally deviant or criminal behavior, such as murder, this would be the stage of secondary deviance.\n\nPrimary acts of deviance are common in everyone, however these are rarely thought of as criminal acts. Secondary deviance is much more likely to be considered as criminal in a social context. The act is likely to be labelled as deviant and criminal, which can have the effect of an individual internalizing that label and acting out accordingly.\n\nLemert made another distinction between primary deviance and secondary deviance. Originally, there may not be a distinguished group of \"deviant\" people, but instead we all switch in and out of deviant behavior and a minority or these individuals starting the rule-breaking acts actually get the attention of others. In that very moment, a person is engaging in secondary deviance and it is said that they start following a more deviant path, or a deviant career - would be a set of roles shaped by the reactions of others in different situations. One's self-identity is vulnerable to all of the social judgement and criticism, and once more we see the continued interplay between the mind, self and society. As Erving Goffman (1961, 1963) showed, when an individual is labelled with a \"discrediting\" social attribute like shyness can often serve as a permanent mark on one's character.\n\nLemert listed out the process, which he decided, was the way that an individual becomes a secondary deviant.\n\nIn Japan the punitive sanctions tend to be more important. The conditions in prison are harsh and some of the interrogated offenders have their rights disregarded. However, Japan has decreased their criminal recidivism rate. Criminal Recidivism is repetition of criminal behavior by an offender previously convicted and punished for an offence. It is also a measure of the effectiveness of rehabilitation programs or the deterrent effect of punishment. Explaining recidivism in the U.S, the labeling or secondary deviance perspective has some merit to go with it. Individuals in both countries have common point of views that are unique to their own cultures. As part of the individualism enforced in the United States, individuals are taught to seek self-importance and personal autonomy. One learns that he or she is not supposed to submit to others but should always try to ascend above and beyond others. The offender surfaces in the weak relationship built between the individual and the society in which it requires them to accept authority. The offender is usually prepared to test their social power and have a negative response in order to prove that they are still more important than society itself. Opposite to the conventional labeling perspective which is said t promote secondary deviance, social reaction actually provides for aggravating secondary deviance. In Japan, an individual appreciates the society in which he was born and raised. That tendency comes from what is learned culturally about integration with the society. The social reaction towards offenders in Japan has slighter recidivist consequences rather than in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "55467055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55467055", "title": "Sexual polarity", "text": "Sexual polarity\n\nSexual polarity is a concept of dualism between masculine and feminine. More generally, the term may be used to denote mutual opposition between sexual ideologies.\n\nMetaphorical symbolism of sexual polarity is deeply intertwined in cultural understandings of nature. Conceptions of male and female poles are developed through history in relation to each other.\n\nResearchers at the University of Connecticut devised a scale of sexual polarity between right-wing and left-wing sexual ideologies. In a study of 140 undergraduates, correlations along this scale were shown between right-wing sexual ideologies and both church attendance and sex-guilt.\n\nSexual differentiation may be seen between pairs of bacteria cells engaged in bacterial conjugation. The genetic-element donor may be characterized as having a 'male' sexual polarity and the recipient a 'female' sexual polarity.\n\nHistorical blurring of boundaries between male and female poles has necessitated debates regarding maintenance of social order, particularly during periods of rapid change.\n\nShulamith Firestone's \"The Dialectic of Sex\" presents a vision of radical feminism calling for division of culture into two modes, Technological and Aesthetic, married by a 'union of opposites'. Chris Middleton argues that this dual organization is intended to reflect and replace the existing sexual polarity of culture.\n\nIn \"Alternative Shakespeare\", Cotherine Belsey uses sexual polarity as lens for both interpretation of William Shakespeare's comedies and in critique of second-wave feminism.\n\nSexual polarity is sometimes presented in New Age spirituality and self-help materials. In \"The Way of the Superior Man\", David Deida discusses challenges related to the ethical expression of masculine polarity. On the Robbins Research International website, life coach Tony Robbins presents an explanation of sexual polarity in relation to intimate relationships and sexual attraction.\n"}
{"id": "4737947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4737947", "title": "Suspension (punishment)", "text": "Suspension (punishment)\n\nSuspension is either paid or unpaid time away from the workplace as ordered by the employer in order for a workplace investigation to take place.\n\nSuspension is a common practice in the workplace for being in violation of an organization's policy, or major breaches of policy. Work suspensions occur when a business manager or supervisor deems an action of an employee, whether intentional or unintentional, to be a violation of policy that should result in a course of punishment, and when the employee's absence during the suspension period does not affect the company. This form of action hurts the employee because s/he will have no hours of work during the suspended period and therefore will not get paid, unless the suspension is with pay, or is challenged and subsequently overturned. Some jobs, which pay on salary, may have paid suspensions, in which the affected worker will be prevented from coming to work but will still receive pay. Generally, suspensions are deemed most effective if the affected worker remains unpaid. Suspensions are usually given after other means of counseling statements have been exhausted, but some violations may result in immediate suspension. Suspensions are tracked, and any number of them, even one may prevent one from receiving raises, bonuses or promotions, or could cause dismissal from the company.\n\nSuspension clauses are common components of collective bargaining agreements. Suspensions may be challenged by employees in unionized organizations through the filing of a grievance.\n\nSuspension on full pay can also be used when an employee needs to be removed from the workplace to avoid prejudicing an investigation. This is used not as a punishment, but in the employer's best interest. For example, a police officer who shoots a person while on duty will be given a suspension with pay during the investigation, not to punish, but to enable the department to carry out its investigation.\n\nSuspension is a punishment in sport where players are banned from playing a certain number of future games. These suspensions may be issued for severe infractions of the rules of play (such as personal fouls), excessive technical, or flagrant fouls for the duration of a season, fights during the course of the game in which the player was a part of the wrongdoing, or misconduct off the field (such as illegal or banned substance use).\n\nGenerally, an athlete who is suspended must forfeit his pay during the course of the suspension, and depending on the team's or league's rules, may not be permitted to don his uniform or be present with the team during the course of play, which often includes attending games in the stands as a typical spectator would.\n\nIn academia, suspension (also known as temporary exclusion) is a mandatory leave assigned to a student as a form of punishment that can last anywhere from one day to several weeks, during which time the student is not allowed to attend regular school lessons. \n\nIn-School Suspension (ISS) or On-Campus suspension (OCS), sometimes known as \"internal exclusion/isolation\", and by some Florida schools as \"School Center for Special Instruction\", is an alternative setting that removes students from the classroom for a period of time, while requiring students to attend school and complete their work. This form of punishment is often chosen because it provides supervision and structure to the students' days, whereas a student who is given an off-campus suspension receives essentially an unscheduled holiday, as off-campus suspension is widely considered to be nothing more than a pleasant reward to most students, instead of the punishment that it is intended to be, and also gives students more of a reason to misbehave on purpose, to those who would prefer to be suspended out of school, rather than being kept in school. Generally, a student assigned to on-campus suspension spends the entire school day in the designated OCS location, completes work submitted in advance by the student's teachers, and is monitored by school staff. One variation of in-school suspension requires the student to arrive at school at a designated time on a Saturday to serve out their punishment, rather than miss class time during the week. This type of punishment is commonly referred to as \"Saturday School\" or more commonly, \"Saturday Detention\", but it may go under other names as well. The name \"Saturday School\" is also used to indicate detention, a less serious punishment. If a student fails to show up at Saturday School, it might result in a more serious punishment being given to the student.\n\nThe student's parents or guardians are usually notified as to the reason for and the duration of the suspension. Sometimes students have to complete work during their suspensions for which they will receive no credit (OSS). Also, upon returning to school, it is often mandatory that the student, his/her parents/guardians, and a school administrator have a meeting to discuss and evaluate the matter. If the suspension is related to the symptoms of a disability or the student is receiving special education or mental health services, students may be required to consult their case manager, counselor, or school psychologist before and/or after the suspension. In some schools, this meeting is prior to the suspension. Applications to some colleges ask the student whether or not they have ever been suspended. In some places in the United States, a suspension is noted on one's transcript. However, other places do not report suspensions or are expressly forbidden from doing so under state law. Students who breach a suspension (attend the school while suspended) may be arrested for, and charged with trespassing. This could result in an extension of suspension, community service, and sometimes jail time. Students who continue to breach a suspension could be sentenced to expulsion and longer, more severe punishments. Students are also not allowed to attend after school activities (such as proms, sporting events, etc.) while suspended from school.\n\nIn Roman Catholic canon law, the censure of suspension prohibits certain acts by a cleric, whether the acts are of a religious character deriving from his ordination (\"acts of the power of orders\") or are exercises of his power of governance or of rights and functions attached to the office he holds.\n\nThis censure is automatically applied to a cleric who uses physical violence against a bishop, a deacon who attempts to celebrate the sacrifice of the Mass or a priest who, though not empowered to grant sacramental absolution attempts to do so or who hears sacramental confession, a cleric who celebrates a sacrament through simony, and on a person who receives ordination illicitly.\n\nThe censure of suspension (along with other punishments) is to be inflicted also on a cleric who openly lives in violation of chastity and on any priest who \"in the act, on the occasion, or under the pretext of confession\" solicits a penitent to a sexual sin. Suspension is incurred automatically by any cleric who falsely denounces a priest of having committed this delict.\n\n"}
{"id": "18801936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18801936", "title": "The Chemical Basis of Morphogenesis", "text": "The Chemical Basis of Morphogenesis\n\n\"The Chemical Basis of Morphogenesis\" is an article written by the English mathematician Alan Turing in 1952 describing the way in which natural patterns such as stripes, spots and spirals may arise naturally out of a homogeneous, uniform state. The theory, which can be called a reaction–diffusion theory of morphogenesis, has served as a basic model in theoretical biology.\n\nReaction–diffusion systems have attracted much interest as a prototype model for pattern formation. Patterns such as fronts, spirals, targets, hexagons, stripes and dissipative solitons are found in various types of reaction-diffusion systems in spite of large discrepancies e.g. in the local reaction terms. Such patterns have been dubbed \"Turing patterns\".\nReaction-diffusion processes form one class of explanation for the embryonic development of animal coats and skin pigmentation. Another reason for the interest in reaction-diffusion systems is that although they represent nonlinear partial differential equations, there are often possibilities for an analytical treatment.\n\n"}
{"id": "50277945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50277945", "title": "The Mayor's Office for Policing and Crime v Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co (Europe) Ltd", "text": "The Mayor's Office for Policing and Crime v Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co (Europe) Ltd\n\nThe case concerns an incident that took place during the 2011 England riots. On 8 August 2011 a gang broke into a warehouse owned by Sony DADC in Enfield. After stealing goods from the warehouse they proceeded to start a fire that destroyed the warehouse and the goods that remained inside.\n\nThe insurers, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Group, made a claim under section 2 of the Riot (Damages) Act 1886 but a dispute arose surrounding the quantification of loss. The MOPC argued that compensation should only extend to the physical damage whereas the insurers argued that it should also include consequential damages.\n\nThe High Court held that section 2 only provided for compensation for the physical damage suffered and not any consequential loss of profits or rent.\n\nThe Court of Appeal reversed the decision of the High Court and held that section 2 provided a right to compensation for all heads of loss. The Master of the Rolls, Lord Dyson stated:\nIn the lead judgment Lord Hodge emphasised that the Riot (Damages) Act 1886 must be considered in the context of previous legislative history. Compensation following a riot was first provided for by Parliament in the Riot Act 1714 and although the scope of compensation was not defined; subsequent case law made it clear that \"statutory compensation was confined to physical damage to property.\" On this basis the Supreme Court unanimously allowed the appeal by the MOPC.\n\nIn the wake of the 2011 riots it was felt that the wording of the Riot (Damages) Act 1886 was archaic and therefore created uncertainty as regards interpretation. As such section 10 of the Riot Compensation Act 2016 repealed the Riot (Damages) Act 1886. Furthermore, section 8(2) of the 2016 Act now makes it clear that compensation will not generally extend to consequential damages.\n\nThe law firm that represented the MOPC in the case stated that \"With many claims for consequential loss dependent on the outcome of this case, today's Supreme Court decision will likely save the UK taxpayer upwards of £80m.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33985665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33985665", "title": "Tolman's rule", "text": "Tolman's rule\n\nTolman's rule states that, in a certain chemical reaction, the steps involve exclusively intermediates of 18- and 16 electron configuration. The rule is an extension of the 18-electron rule. This rule was proposed by American chemist Chadwick A. Tolman. As stated above, Tolman's rule, even for reactions that proceed via 2e steps, is incorrect because many reactions involve configurations of fewer than 16 e.\n\nMany examples of homogeneous catalysis involving organometallic complexes involve shuttling of complexes between 16 and 18 electron configurations. 16-electron complexes often form adducts with Lewis bases and, if low-valent, undergo oxidative addition.\n\nConversely, complexes of 18 electron configuration tend to dissociate ligands or undergo reductive elimination:\n"}
{"id": "519343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=519343", "title": "Transcendental idealism", "text": "Transcendental idealism\n\nTranscendental idealism is a doctrine founded by German philosopher Immanuel Kant in the 18th century. Kant's doctrine maintains that human experience of things is similar to the way they appear to us—implying a fundamentally subject-based component, rather than being an activity that directly (and therefore without any obvious causal link) comprehends the things as they are in themselves. The doctrine is most commonly presented as the idea that time and space are just human perceptions; they are not necessarily real concepts, just a medium through which humans internalize the universe.\nAlthough it influenced the course of subsequent German philosophy dramatically, exactly how to interpret this concept was a subject of some debate among 20th century philosophers. Kant first describes it in his \"Critique of Pure Reason\", and distinguished his view from contemporary views of realism and idealism, but philosophers do not agree how sharply Kant differs from each of these positions.\n\nTranscendental idealism is associated with \"formalistic idealism\" on the basis of passages from Kant's \"Prolegomena to any Future Metaphysics\", although recent research has tended to dispute this identification. Transcendental idealism was also adopted as a label by the subsequent German philosophers Johann Gottlieb Fichte and Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph von Schelling, Arthur Schopenhauer, and in the early 20th century by Edmund Husserl in the novel form of transcendental-phenomenological idealism.\n\nKant presents an account of how we intuit () objects and accounts of space and of time. Before Kant, some thinkers, such as Leibniz, had come to the conclusion that space and time were not things, but only the relations among things. Other thinkers, including Newton, maintained that space and time were real things or substances. Leibniz had arrived at a radically different understanding of the universe and the things found in it. According to his \"Monadology\", all things that humans ordinarily understand as interactions between and relations among individuals (such as their relative positions in space and time) have their being in the mind of God but not in the Universe where we perceive them to be. In the view of realists, individual things interact by physical connection and the relations among things are mediated by physical processes that connect them to human brains and give humans a determinate chain of action to them and correct knowledge of them. Kant was aware of problems with both of these positions. He had been influenced by the physics of Newton and understood that there is a physical chain of interactions between things perceived and the one who perceives them. However, an important function of mind is to structure incoming data and to process it in ways that make it other than a simple mapping of outside data.\nThe salient element here is that space and time, rather than being real \"things-in-themselves\" or empirically mediated appearances (), are the very forms of intuition () by which we must perceive objects. They are hence neither to be considered properties that we may attribute to objects in perceiving them, nor substantial entities of themselves. They are in that sense subjective, yet necessary, preconditions of any given object insofar as this object is an appearance and not a \"thing-in-itself\". Humans necessarily perceive objects as located in space and in time. This condition of experience is part of what it means for a human to cognize an object, to perceive and understand it as something both spatial and temporal: \"By \"transcendental idealism\" I mean the doctrine that appearances are to be regarded as being, one and all, representations only, not things in themselves, and that time and space are therefore only sensible forms of our intuition…\" Kant argues for these several claims in the section of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" entitled the \"Transcendental Aesthetic\". That section is devoted to inquiry into the \"a priori\" conditions of human sensibility, i.e. the faculty by which humans intuit objects. The following section, the \"Transcendental Logic\", concerns itself with the manner in which objects are thought.\n\nXenophanes of Colophon in 530 BC anticipated Kant's epistemology in his reflections on certainty. \"And as for certain truth, no man has seen it, nor will there ever be a man who knows about the gods and about all the things I mention. For if he succeeds to the full in saying what is completely true, he himself is nevertheless unaware of it; and Opinion (seeming) is fixed by fate upon all things.\" \nCertain interpretations of some of the medieval Buddhists of India, such as Dharmakirti, may reveal them to be transcendental idealists, since they seemed to hold the position of mereological nihilism but transcendental idealists who held that their minds were distinct from the atoms. Some Buddhists often attempt to maintain that the minds are equal to the atoms of mereological nihilist reality, but Buddhists seem to have no explanation of how this is the case, and much of the literature on the aforementioned Buddhists involves straightforward discussion of atoms and minds as if they are separate. This makes their position very similar to transcendental idealism, resembling Kant's philosophy where there are only things-in-themselves (which are very much like philosophical atoms), and phenomenal properties.\n\nBriefly, Schopenhauer described transcendental idealism as a \"distinction between the phenomenon and the thing in itself\", and a recognition that only the phenomenon is accessible to us because \"we know neither ourselves nor things as they are in themselves, but merely as they appear.\" Some of Schopenhauer's comments on the definition of the word \"transcendental\" are as follows: \n\nSchopenhauer contrasted Kant's transcendental critical philosophy with Leibniz's dogmatic philosophy. \n\nIn \"The Bounds of Sense\", P. F. Strawson suggests a reading of Kant's first \"Critique\" that, once accepted, forces rejection of most of the original arguments, including transcendental idealism. Strawson contends that, if Kant had followed out the implications of all that he said, he would have seen that there were many self-contradictions implicit in the whole.\n\nStrawson views the analytic argument of the \"transcendental deduction\" as the most valuable idea in the text, and regards transcendental idealism as an unavoidable error in Kant's greatly productive system. In Strawson's traditional reading (also favored in the work of Paul Guyer and Rae Langton), the Kantian term phenomena (literally something that can be seen from the Greek word \"phainomenon\", \"observable\") refers to the world of appearances, or the world of \"things\" sensed. They are tagged as \"phenomena\" to remind the reader that humans confuse these derivative appearances with whatever may be the forever unavailable \"things in themselves\" behind our perceptions. The necessary preconditions of experience, the components that humans bring to their apprehending of the world, the forms of perception such as space and time, are what make \"a priori\" judgments possible, but all of this process of comprehending what lies fundamental to human experience fails to bring anyone beyond the inherent limits of human sensibility. Kant's system requires the existence of noumena to prevent a rejection of external reality altogether, and it is this concept (senseless objects of which we can have no real understanding) to which Strawson objects in his book.\n\nIn \"Kant's Transcendental Idealism\", Henry E. Allison proposes a reading that opposes Strawson's interpretation. Allison argues that Strawson and others misrepresent Kant by emphasising what has become known as the two-worlds reading (a view developed by Paul Guyer). This—according to Allison, false—reading of Kant's phenomena/noumena distinction suggests that phenomena and noumena are ontologically distinct from each other. It concludes on that basis that we somehow fall short of knowing the noumena due to the nature of the very means by which we comprehend them. On such a reading, Kant would himself commit the very fallacies he attributes to the transcendental realists. On Allison's reading, Kant's view is better characterized as a two-aspect theory, where noumena and phenomena refer to complementary ways of considering an object. It is the dialectic character of knowing, rather than epistemological insufficiency, that Kant wanted most to assert.\n\nOpposing Kantian transcendental idealism is the doctrine of philosophical realism, that is, the proposition that the world is knowable as it really is, without any consideration of the knower's manner of knowing. This has been propounded by philosophers such as Bertrand Russell, G. E. Moore, Ralph Barton Perry, and Henry Babcock Veatch. Realism claims, contrary to idealism, that perceived objects exist in the way that they appear, in and of themselves, independent of a knowing spectator's mind.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4639300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4639300", "title": "Transparency (philosophy)", "text": "Transparency (philosophy)\n\nIn epistemology, transparency is a property of epistemic states defined as follows: An epistemic state E is \"weakly transparent\" to a subject S if and only if when S is in state E, S can know that S is in state E; an epistemic state E is \"strongly transparent\" to a subject S if and only if when S is in state E, S can know that S is in state E, AND when S is not in state E, S can know S is not in state E.\n\nPain is usually considered to be strongly transparent: when someone is in pain, he knows immediately that he is in pain, and if he is not in pain, he will know he is not. Transparency is important in the study of self-knowledge and meta-knowledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "371860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371860", "title": "Treaty of the Pyrenees", "text": "Treaty of the Pyrenees\n\nThe Treaty of the Pyrenees (, , , ) was signed on 7 November 1659 to end the 1635–1659 war between France and Spain, a war that was initially a part of the wider Thirty Years' War. It was signed on Pheasant Island, a river island on the border between the two countries which has remained a French-Spanish condominium since the treaty. The kings Louis XIV of France and Philip IV of Spain were represented by their chief ministers, Cardinal Mazarin and Don Luis Méndez de Haro, respectively.\n\nFrance entered the Thirty Years' War after the Spanish Habsburg victories in the Dutch Revolt in the 1620s and at the Battle of Nördlingen against Sweden in 1634. By 1640, France began to interfere in Spanish politics, aiding the revolt in Catalonia, while Spain responded by aiding the Fronde revolt in France in 1648. During the negotiations for the Peace of Westphalia in 1648, France gained the Sundgau and cut off Spanish access to the Netherlands from Austria, leading to open warfare between the French and Spanish.\n\nAfter 23 years of war, an Anglo-French alliance was victorious at the Battle of the Dunes in June 14, 1658, but the following year the war ground to a halt when the French campaign to take Milan was defeated. Peace was settled by means of the Treaty of the Pyrenees in November 1659.\n\nFrance gained Roussillon (including Perpignan) and the northern half of Cerdanya, Montmédy and other parts of Luxembourg, Artois and other towns in Flanders, including Arras, Béthune, Gravelines and Thionville, and a new border with Spain was fixed at the Pyrenees. However, the treaty stipulated only that all \"villages\" north of the Pyrenees should become part of France. Because it was a villa, the historic town of Llívia, once the capital of Cerdanya, was thus unintentionally exempted from the treaty and became a Spanish exclave as part of the \"comarca\" of Baixa Cerdanya, in the Spanish province of Girona. This border was not properly settled until the Treaty of Bayonne was signed in 1856, with its final acts accepted 12 years later. On the western Pyrenees a definite borderline was drawn and decisions made as to the politico-administrative affiliation of bordering areas in the Basque region—Baztan, Aldude, Valcarlos.\n\nSpain was forced to recognize and confirm all of the French gains at the Peace of Westphalia.\n\nIn exchange for the Spanish territorial losses, the French king pledged to quit his support for Portugal and renounced to his claim to the county of Barcelona, which the French crown had claimed ever since the Catalan Revolt (also known as Reapers' War). The Portuguese revolt in 1640, led by the Duke of Braganza, was supported monetarily by Cardinal Richelieu of France. After the Catalan Revolt, France had controlled the Principality of Catalonia from January 1641, when a combined Catalan and French force defeated the Spanish army at Battle of Montjuïc, until it was defeated by a Spanish army at Barcelona in 1652. Though the Spanish army reconquered most of Catalonia, the French retained Catalan territory north of the Pyrenees.\n\nThe treaty also arranged for a marriage between Louis XIV of France and Maria Theresa of Spain, the daughter of Philip IV of Spain. Maria Theresa was forced to renounce her claim to the Spanish throne, in return for a monetary settlement as part of her dowry. This settlement was never paid, a factor that eventually led to the War of Devolution in 1668. At the Meeting on the Isle of Pheasants in June 1660, the two monarchs and their ministers met, and the princess entered France.\n\nIn addition, the English received Dunkirk, although they elected to sell it to France in 1662.\n\nThe Treaty of the Pyrenees was the last major diplomatic achievement by Cardinal Mazarin. Combined with the Peace of Westphalia, it allowed Louis XIV remarkable stability and diplomatic advantage by means of a weakened Louis II de Bourbon, Prince de Condé and a weakened Spanish Crown, along with the agreed dowry, which was an important element in the French king's strategy:\n\nAll in all, by 1660, when the Swedish occupation of Poland was over, most of the European continent was at peace (Portuguese Restoration War, third stage), and the Bourbons had ended the dominance of the Habsburgs. In the Pyrenees, the treaty resulted in the establishment of border customs and restriction of the free cross-border flow of people and goods.\n\nIn the context of the territorial changes involved in the Treaty, France gained some territory, on both its northern and southern borders.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "216180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216180", "title": "Understanding", "text": "Understanding\n\nUnderstanding is a psychological process related to an abstract or physical object, such as a person, situation, or message whereby one is able to think about it and use concepts to deal adequately with that object.\nUnderstanding is a relation between the knower and an object of understanding. Understanding implies abilities and dispositions with respect to an object of knowledge that are sufficient to support intelligent behaviour.\n\nUnderstanding is often, though not always, related to learning concepts, and sometimes also the theory or theories associated with those concepts. However, a person may have a good ability to predict the behaviour of an object, animal or system—and therefore may, in some sense, understand it—without necessarily being familiar with the concepts or theories associated with that object, animal or system in their culture. They may have developed their own distinct concepts and theories, which may be equivalent, better or worse than the recognised standard concepts and theories of their culture. Thus, understanding is correlated with the ability to make inferences.\n\n\nSomeone who has a more sophisticated understanding, more predictively accurate understanding, and/or an understanding that allows them to make explanations that others commonly judge to be better, of something, is said to understand that thing \"deeply\". Conversely, someone who has a more limited understanding of a thing is said to have a \"shallow\" understanding. However, the depth of understanding required to usefully participate in an occupation or activity may vary greatly.\n\nFor example, consider multiplication of integers. Starting from the most shallow level of understanding, we have (at least) the following possibilities:\n\n\nFor the purpose of operating a cash register at McDonald's, a person does not need a very deep understanding of the multiplication involved in calculating the total price of two Big Macs. However, for the purpose of contributing to number theory research, a person would need to have a relatively deep understanding of multiplication — along with other relevant arithmetical concepts such as division and prime numbers.\n\nIt is possible for a person, or a piece of \"intelligent\" software, that in reality only has a shallow understanding of a topic, to appear to have a deeper understanding than they actually do, when the right questions are asked of it. The most obvious way this can happen is by memorization of correct answers to known questions, but there are other, more subtle ways that a person or computer can (intentionally or otherwise) deceive somebody about their level of understanding, too. This is particularly a risk with artificial intelligence, in which the ability of a piece of artificial intelligence software to very quickly try out millions of possibilities (attempted solutions, theories, etc.) could create a misleading impression of the real depth of its understanding. Supposed AI software could in fact come up with impressive answers to questions that were difficult for unaided humans to answer, without really understanding the concepts \"at all\", simply by dumbly applying rules very quickly. (However, see the Chinese room argument for a controversial philosophical extension of this argument.)\n\nExaminations are designed to assess students' understanding (and sometimes also other things such as knowledge and writing abilities) without falling prey to these risks. They do this partly by asking multiple different questions about a topic to reduce the risk of measurement error, and partly by forbidding access to reference works and the outside world to reduce the risk of someone else's understanding being passed off as one's own. Because of the faster and more accurate computation and memorization abilities of computers, such tests would arguably often have to be modified if they were to be used to accurately assess the understanding of an artificial intelligence.\n\nConversely, it is even easier for a person or artificial intelligence to fake a \"shallower\" level of understanding than they actually have; they simply need to respond with the same kind of answers that someone with a more limited understanding, or no understanding, would respond with — such as \"I don't know\", or obviously wrong answers. This is relevant for judges in Turing tests; it is unlikely to be effective to simply ask the respondents to mentally calculate the answer to a very difficult arithmetical question, because the computer is likely to simply dumb itself down and pretend not to know the answer.\n\nGregory Chaitin, a noted computer scientist, propounds a view that comprehension is a kind of data compression. In his essay \"The Limits of Reason\", he argues that \"understanding\" something means being able to figure out a simple set of rules that explains it. For example, we understand why day and night exist because we have a simple model—the rotation of the earth—that explains a tremendous amount of data—changes in brightness, temperature, and atmospheric composition of the earth. We have compressed a large amount of information by using a simple model that predicts it. Similarly, we understand the number 0.33333... by thinking of it as one-third. The first way of representing the number requires five concepts (\"0\", \"decimal point\", \"3\", \"infinity\", \"infinity of 3\"); but the second way can produce all the data of the first representation, but uses only three concepts (\"1\", \"division\", \"3\"). Chaitin argues that comprehension is this ability to compress data.\n\nCognition is the process by which sensory inputs are transformed. Affect refers to the experience of feelings or emotions. Cognition and affect constitute understanding.\n\nIn Catholicism and Anglicanism, understanding is one of the Seven gifts of the Holy Spirit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "926840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=926840", "title": "Uniformity of motive", "text": "Uniformity of motive\n\nIn astrobiology, the Uniformity of Motive theory suggests that any civilization in the universe would go through similar technological steps in their development. This theory supports the idea that at some point in their history, advanced alien civilizations would use the electromagnetic medium for communications, and thus would emit radio waves that could be detected by projects such as SETI.\n\nThe fact that no artificial EM band communications have ever been detected supports the Fermi Principle, which in conjunction with the Uniformity of Motive theory, and Occam's razor suggests that a civilization that uses this medium is a unique occurrence in Earth's region of the Milky Way Galaxy and perhaps the universe.\n"}
{"id": "24445816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24445816", "title": "Visayan leopard cat", "text": "Visayan leopard cat\n\nThe Visayan leopard cat is a Sunda leopard cat (\"Prionailurus javanensis sumatranus\") population in the Philippine Islands of Negros, Cebu and Panay. It has been listed as Vulnerable on the IUCN Red List in 2008 under its former scientific name \"P. bengalensis rabori\" as its range is estimated to be less than .\n\n\"Prionailurus bengalensis rabori\" was proposed in 1997 by Colin Groves on the basis of morphological analysis of a skin and skull. He considered it a leopard cat subspecies.\n\nResults of phylogeographic research show that Sunda leopard cats from Borneo, Sumatra and the Philippine islands are genetically very similar. The Sunda leopard cat probably reached the Philippine islands from Borneo after the eruption of Toba Volcano during the late Pleistocene glaciation. It has therefore been subsumed to \"P. javanensis sumatranus\" in 2017.\n\nThe fur of the Visayan leopard cat is dark ochre to buffy fawn with large and dark spots. Its skull is a little narrower than of Sumatran leopard cat and Bornean leopard cat.\n\nThe Visayan leopard cat occurs on the Philippine islands of Panay and Negros where it inhabits remnant forest fragments. On Cebu, it has also been recorded in sugarcane farms. It is probably locally extinct or close to extinction on the islands of Cebu and Masbate. Panay and Negros islands have lost 90–95 % of their natural habitat.\n"}
{"id": "54735726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54735726", "title": "Waunetta McClellan Dominic", "text": "Waunetta McClellan Dominic\n\nWaunetta McClellan Dominic (23 July 1921 – 21 December 1981) was an Odawa rights activist who spent her career advocating for the United States government to adhere to its treaty obligations to Native Americans. She was one of the founders of the Northern Michigan Ottawa Association and her influence was widely recognized, especially after winning a 1971 claim against the government for compensation under 19th century treaties. She was also a proponent of Native American fishing rights being protected. In 1979, she was named by \"The Detroit News\" as \"Michiganian of the Year\" and in 1996, she was posthumously inducted into the Michigan Women's Hall of Fame.\n\nWaunetta G. McClellan was born on 23 July 1921 in Petoskey, Michigan to Elizabeth \"Lizzie\" (née Taylor) and Levi P. McClellan. Her great-grandfather was a leader of the Grand River Band of Ottawas. She initially attended school in Petoskey and completed her studies at the Haskell Indian Institute in Lawrence, Kansas. Marrying Robert Dominic in 1940, the couple made their home in Detroit and Flint, before returning to Petoskey in 1944.\n\nThe Indian termination policy established by the federal government in the 1940s created the Indian Claims Commission in 1946, as a means of compensating tribes for previous land takings, undervaluations of compensation, and abridgement of rights. The problem for the Odawa was that the 1855 Treaty of Detroit had been interpreted as severing the tribal governments of each of the bands. To be eligible for filing a claim, they first had to confirm that the bands had \"continued to be distinct, self-governing nations\". In 1946, the Dominics called for a meeting of local tribes at the local Petoskey grocery store. Only 20 members showed up, making them realize the need to organize. Traveling throughout the state to document descendants of Odawa listed on the Durant Roll (1907–1910), they identified 3,000 American Indians who might be eligible to pursue claims against the U. S. government. \nIn 1948, Dominic, her father, and her husband founded the Northern Michigan Ottawa Association (NMOA), with Robert serving as president of the organization and Waunetta serving as secretary. The organization contained eleven bands of northern Odawa who had been signatories to the 1836 Treaty of Washington and the subsequently signed 1855 Treaty of Detroit. The following year, they filed a claim under the Claims Commission.\n\nBecause most of the tribes their organization represented were not reservation tribes, Dominic was concerned about their lack of access to health care. She fought for the right for NMOA members to be treated at the Upper Peninsula's Kinchloe Indian Clinic. Recognizing how few Michigan Indians had received higher education, she discovered federal programs that could be utilized and worked to assist Indian students in obtaining grants and scholarships. Dominic also was a driving force in the Michigan State tuition waiver program for Native American Students. \n\nIn 1959, the government conceded that the bands of Chippewa and Odawa who had signed the treaties had ceded nearly 13,000,000 acres of land and were entitled to a reassessment of whether they were paid a fair value. Because the Keweenaw Bay Indian Community, L’Anse Lac Vieux Desert Band of Chippewa, and the Ontonagon Band of Chippewa had reorganized under the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934, their members were removed as claimants in the suit, which then went to arbitration over the amount of settlement. Dominic traversed the state examining land records in each county in the state to analyze the variance in payment made to American Indians and the price white settlers sold their lands for historically. She discovered that when the treaties were written in the nineteenth century, Native Americans were paid half of one cent to seventeen cents per acre, when white transactions in the same period were negotiated between ninety-two and ninety-seven cents per acre. \n\nFinally winning a $12.1 million settlement in 1971, which was reduced to $10.3 million because of funds previously paid, the Dominic's battle continued. Having won the judgement, the problem became how it was to be distributed. The Claims Commission recognized the NMOA and allowed it to pursue the case, but the Bureau of Indian Affairs refused to allow the association to reorganize under the Indian Reorganization Act, claiming that as an association rather than a tribal government, each band would need to seek individual recognition. The initial bill proposed to direct the distribution was rejected by Dominic, as it did not include either non-reservation tribes people (at that point the only reservation tribes were the three which had been eliminated from the suit and the Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of Chippewa Indians, which had been reorganized in 1972) nor the blood quantum requirements the tribe members wanted. \n\nDominic was the spokesperson for the (NMOA) on fishing rights, often acting as an intermediary between Native and white fisherman. In the 1975 a lawsuit, \"United States v. Michigan\", was filed concerning those fishing rights and she testified to tribal procedures for issuing licenses and penalties for infractions. The 1979 ruling allowed tribes to continue with gill net fishing, though controversy would continue until 1985 over fishing rights. In 1976, upon her husband's death, Dominic became president of the NMOA and led the organization until her death. Throughout the 1970s, she traveled giving assistance to Odawa with their genealogical records to allow them to participate in the claim distribution and fought to secure that $1.8 million of those funds were set aside for tribes which did not gain federal recognition. She was noted as one of the most influential Native Americans in the state, having led the NMOA to become the largest American Indian organization in the state. In 1979, she was honored by \"The Detroit News\" as \"Michiganian of the Year\".\n\nDominic died on 21 December 1981 in Petoskey at Northern Michigan Hospital. She was posthumously inducted into the Michigan Women's Hall of Fame in 1996. Eventually all the bands of the NOMA would gain recognition, though three of the bands, the Burt Lake Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians, the Swan Creek Black River Confederated Ojibwa Tribes of Michigan and ironically, her own band, the Grand River Band of Ottawas are only recognized at the state level. In 1998, the federal government finally agreed to distribute the funds awarded to the Odawa. Having been held in trust since 1971, the final amount of the award was close to $74 million. In 2014, Dominic was again recognized by the Michigan Women's Historical Center and Hall of Fame, during an exhibit hosted to celebrate six women involved in the struggle for Civil Rights.\n\n"}
