{"id": "57721591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57721591", "title": "2018 Brussels summit", "text": "2018 Brussels summit\n\nThe 2018 Brussels Summit of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) was the 29th formal meeting of the heads of state and heads of government of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, held in Brussels, Belgium, on 11 and 12 July 2018.\n\n\nOn the opening day of the conference the President of the United States, Donald Trump, caused controversy by asserting that Germany is beholden to Russia over its involvement in the Nord Stream gas pipeline project aimed at doubling energy imports from Russia. German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who grew up in Soviet-controlled East Germany, rebuffed Trump's comments and noted \"I am very happy that today we are united in freedom, the Federal Republic of Germany. Because of that we can say that we can make our independent policies and make independent decisions.\"\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported on August 9, 2018 that Trump's senior national security advisors, concerned that Trump might disrupt the summit as he did by refusing to sign the communiqué at the June G7 summit, scrambled to secure a formal policy agreement during the weeks before the summit.\n\nFor the first time a RF Drone Detection System was used (a white dome seen at the right rooftop of the summit picture).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22603479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22603479", "title": "Air Force One photo op incident", "text": "Air Force One photo op incident\n\nThe \"Air Force One\" photo op incident occurred on the morning of April 27, 2009, when a Boeing VC-25 (a Boeing 747 military variant used as \"Air Force One\" when the president is aboard), followed by a U.S. Air Force F-16 jet fighter, flew low and circled the Upper New York Bay, site of the Statue of Liberty National Monument. President Barack Obama was not on board the aircraft during the incident. Although the planes were engaged in a photo op and training exercise, the citizens of New York and New Jersey had not been informed in advance, and some thought it could be the makings of a terrorist attack similar to the September 11 attacks. Some people ran out of buildings and panicked in the streets. Some buildings ordered evacuations.\n\nThe flyby was approved by Louis Caldera, director of the White House Military Office, to update the previous image of the aircraft flying over Mount Rushmore. Fran Townsend, Homeland Security Advisor to George W. Bush, said the flyby was \"crass insensitivity.\" She also said, \"I'd call this felony stupidity. This is probably not the right job for Mr. Caldera to be in if he didn't understand the likely reaction of New Yorkers, of the mayor.\" The Mayor of New York City, Michael Bloomberg, said that the flyby \"defies the imagination.\" Senator Charles Schumer (D-New York) said the Federal Aviation Administration not telling the public about the flyby in advance \"borders on being either cruel or very, very stupid.\" President Barack Obama did not know about the flyby until after it happened, and he stated, \"It was a mistake. It was something we found out about along with all of you. And it will not happen again.\" Although the city's police department had been notified in advance, they had been instructed not to tell the public.\n\nCaldera said of his actions, \"Last week, I approved a mission over New York. I take responsibility for that decision... While federal authorities took the proper steps to notify state and local authorities in New York and New Jersey, it's clear that the mission created confusion and disruption. I apologize and take responsibility for any distress that flight caused.\"\n\nCBS News's New York City affiliate WCBS-TV obtained a memo from the Federal Aviation Administration's James Johnston saying that the agency was aware of \"the possibility of public concern regarding DOD (Department of Defense) aircraft flying at low altitudes\" in and around the city. However, the agency demanded total secrecy from the city's police department, the Secret Service, the FBI, and the mayor's office, and threatened federal sanctions if the secret was revealed.\n\nAir Force officials estimated the cost for the photo shoot mission to be around $328,835, but stated that \"the hours would have been flown regardless, and the expenses would have been accrued on a different mission\".\n\nThe day after the flyby, White House spokesperson Robert Gibbs said that the incident would be investigated by Deputy Chief of Staff Jim Messina. Gibbs also said that President Obama was \"furious\" about the flyby. However, Gibbs did not answer reporters' repeated questions about whether or not Caldera would lose his job. Pentagon press secretary Geoff Morrell said that the idea for the flyby originated in the White House Military Office. Gibbs also stated, \"Because this was a training mission, the only people on that plane were Air Force personnel.\"\n\nOn May 4, 2009, the White House told reporters that the publicity photos taken during the flight would not be shown to the public. Two days later, the White House reversed course and told reporters that the publicity photos taken during the flight could be released soon. On May 8, 2009, the photo was released and it was reported that Caldera had resigned. In his letter of resignation, Caldera told the president that after the incident he was no longer able to \"effectively lead the White House Military Office\" due to the furor over the incident. On July 31, 2009, 146 photos and related documents were released through the Department of Defense's Freedom of Information Act procedures.\n\nIn August, the Associated Press reported that the Air Force used the social networking site Twitter to track the negative public reaction to the incident. Caldera's replacement, George Mulligan, was announced on October 16, 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "8239144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8239144", "title": "Asilomar Conference on Recombinant DNA", "text": "Asilomar Conference on Recombinant DNA\n\nThe Asilomar Conference on Recombinant DNA was an influential conference organized by Paul Berg to discuss the potential biohazards and regulation of biotechnology, held in February 1975 at a conference center at Asilomar State Beach. A group of about 140 professionals (primarily biologists, but also including lawyers and physicians) participated in the conference to draw up voluntary guidelines to ensure the safety of recombinant DNA technology. The conference also placed scientific research more into the public domain, and can be seen as applying a version of the precautionary principle.\n\nThe effects of these guidelines are still being felt through the biotechnology industry and the participation of the general public in scientific discourse. Due to potential safety hazards, scientists worldwide had halted experiments using recombinant DNA technology, which entailed combining DNAs from different organisms. After the establishment of the guidelines during the conference, scientists continued with their research, which increased fundamental knowledge about biology and the public's interest in biomedical research.\n\nRecombinant DNA technology arose as a result of advances in biology that began in the 1950s and 60’s. During these decades, a tradition of merging the structural, biochemical and informational approaches to the central problems of classical genetics became more apparent. Two main underlying concepts of this tradition were that genes consisted of DNA and that DNA encoded information that determined the processes of replication and protein synthesis. These concepts were embodied in the model of DNA produced through the combined efforts of James Watson, Francis Crick,and Rosalind Franklin. Further research on the Watson-Crick model yielded theoretical advances that were reflected in new capacities to manipulate DNA. One of these capacities was recombinant DNA technology.\n\nThis technology entails the joining of DNA from different species and the subsequent insertion of the hybrid DNA into a host cell. One of the first individuals to develop recombinant DNA technology was a biochemist at Stanford by the name of Paul Berg. In his experimental design in 1974, he cleaved (cut into fragments) the monkey virus SV40. He then cleaved the double helix of another virus; an antibacterial agent known as bacteriophage lambda. In the third step, he fastened DNA from the SV40 to DNA from the bacteriophage lambda. The final step involved placing the mutant genetic material into a laboratory strain of the E. coli bacterium. This last step, however, was not completed in the original experiment.\n\nBerg did not complete his final step due to the pleas of several fellow investigators who feared the biohazards associated with the last step. The SV40 was known to cause cancer tumors to develop in mice. Additionally, the E. coli bacterium (although not the strain used by Berg) inhabited the human intestinal tract. For these reasons, the other investigators feared that the final step would create cloned SV40 DNA that might escape into the environment and infect laboratory workers. These workers could then become cancer victims.\n\nConcern about this potential biohazard, along with others, caused a group of leading researchers to send a letter to the president of the National Academy of Science (NAS). In this letter, they requested that he appoint an ad hoc committee to study the bio-safety ramifications of this new technology. This committee, called the Committee on Recombinant DNA molecules of the National Academy of Science, U.S.A., held in 1974, concluded that an international conference was necessary to resolve the issue and that until that time, scientists should halt experiments involving recombinant DNA technology.\n\nThe Asilomar Conference on Recombinant DNA took place at the Asilomar Conference Center on California's Monterey Peninsula in 1975. The main goal of the conference was to address the biohazards presented by recombinant DNA technology. During the conference, the principles guiding the recommendations for how to conduct experiments using this technology safely were established. The first principle for dealing with potential risks was that containment should be made an essential consideration in the experimental design. A second principle was that the effectiveness of the containment should match the estimated risk as closely as possible.\n\nThe conference also suggested the use of biological barriers to limit the spread of recombinant DNA. Such biological barriers included fastidious bacterial hosts that were unable to survive in natural environments. Other barriers were nontransmissible and equally fastidious vectors (plasmids, bacteriophages, or other viruses) that were able to grow in only specified hosts.\n\nIn addition to biological barriers, the conference advocated the use of additional safety factors. One such safety factor was physical containment, exemplified by the use of hoods or where applicable, limited access or negative pressure laboratories. Another factor was the strict adherence to good microbiological practices, which would limit the escape of organisms from the experimental situation. Additionally, the education and training of all personnel involved in the experiments would be essential to effective containment measures.\n\nThe Asilomar Conference also gave recommendations for matching the types of containment necessary for different types of experiments. These recommendations were based on the different levels of risk associated with the experiment, which would require different levels of containment. These levels were minimal, low, moderate and high risk. The minimal risk level of containment was intended for experiments in which the biohazards could be accurately assessed and were expected to be minimal. Low risk containment was appropriate for experiments that generated novel biotypes but where the available information indicated that the recombinant DNA could not either alter appreciably the ecological behavior of the recipient species, increase significantly its pathogenicity or prevent effective treatments of any resulting infections. The moderate risk level of containment was intended for experiments in which there was a probability of generating an agent with a significant potential for pathogenicity or ecological disruption. High-risk containment was intended for experiments in which the potential for ecological disruption or pathogenicity of the modified organism could be severe and thereby pose a serious biohazard to laboratory personnel or to the public. These levels of containments, along with the previously mentioned safety measures, formed the basis for the guidelines used by investigators in future experiments that involved the construction and propagation of recombinant DNA molecules using DNA from prokaryotes, bacteriophages and other plasmids, animal viruses and eukaryotes.\n\nFor prokaryotes, bacteriophages and other plasmids, experiments could be performed in minimal risk containment facilities when the construction of recombinant DNA molecules and their propagation involved prokaryotic agents that were known to exchange genetic information naturally. For experiments involving the creation and propagation of recombinant DNA molecules from DNAs of species that ordinarily did not exchange genetic information and generate novel biotypes, the experiments were to be performed in at least in a low risk containment facility. If the experiment increased the pathogenicity of the recipient species or result in new metabolic pathways in species, then moderate or high-risk containment facilities were to be used. In experiments where the range of resistance of established human pathogens to therapeutically useful antibiotics or disinfectants was extended, the experiments were to be undertaken only in moderate or high-risk containment facilities.\n\nWhen working with animal viruses, experiments that involved the linkage of viral genomes or genome segments to prokaryotic vectors and their propagation in prokaryotic cells were to be conducted only with vector-host systems that had demonstrated restricted growth capabilities outside the laboratory and in moderate risk containment facilities. As safer vector-host systems became available, such experiments could be performed in low risk facilities. In experiments designed to introduce or propagate DNA from non-viral or other low risk agents in animal cells, only low risk animal DNA could be used as vectors and the manipulations were to be confined to moderate risk containment facilities.\n\nWith eukaryotes, attempts to clone segments of DNA using recombinant DNA technology from warm-blooded vertebrates genomes were to be performed only with vector-host systems that had demonstrably restricted growth capabilities outside the laboratory and in a moderate risk containment facility. This was because they potentially contained cryptic viral genomes that were potentially pathogenic to humans. However, unless the organism made a dangerous product, recombinant DNAs from cold-blooded vertebrates and all other lower eukaryotes could be constructed and propagated with the safest vector-host system available in low risk containment facilities. Additionally, purified DNA from any source that performed known functions and was judged to be non-toxic could be cloned with available vectors in low risk containment facilities.\n\nIn addition to regulating the experiments that were conducted, the guidelines also forbade the performance of other experiments. One such experiment was the cloning of recombinant DNAs derived from highly pathogenic organisms. In addition, neither the cloning of DNA containing toxin genes, nor large scale experiments using recombinant DNAs that were able to make products that were potentially harmful to humans, animals or plants were allowed under the guidelines. These experiments were banned because the potential biohazards could not be contained by the then current safety precautions.\n\nThe participants of the Asilomar Conference also endeavored to bring science into the domain of the general public, with a possible motivation being the Watergate scandal. The scandal resulted from a bungled break-in at the Watergate hotel, which served as the Democratic National Committee headquarters in 1972. Two years after the burglary, taped evidence was discovered that indicated that President Nixon had discussed a cover-up a week after it. Three days following the release of the tape, Nixon resigned from his presidential office. This event focused the nation's attention on the problem of government secrecy fostering illegal and immoral behavior and it has been suggested by the political scientist, Ira H. Carmen, that this motivated the scientists at the Asilomar Conference to bring science into the public eye to ensure that they would not be accused of a cover-up. Additionally, according to Dr. Berg and Dr. Singer, by being forthright, scientists avoided restrictive legislation due to the development of a consensus on how they were to conduct their research.\n\nBringing science into the public eye also coincided with the rapid rate at which recombinant DNA technology entered the industrial world. Because of the practical applications of the technology, funding for research using it started coming more from the private sector and less from the public sector. In addition, many molecular biologists who once confined themselves to academia, developed ties with private industry as equity owners, corporate executives and consultants. This led to the creation of a biotechnology industry, although during this time, public debates occur over the hazards of recombinant DNA. These debates were eventually won over by scientists who stated that the hazards were exaggerated and that the research could be conducted safely. Such was seen in the Ascot report, found in the Federal Register in March 1978. This report emphasized that the hazards of recombinant DNA to the general community were small to the point that they were of no practical consequence to the general public. For this reason, along with high economic pressures for industrial development and a more supportive political environment that existed after 1979, research and industry based on recombinant DNA continued to expand.\n\nYears after the conference, people ascribed a large amount of significance to it. According to Paul Berg and Maxine Singer in 1995, the conference marked the beginning of an exceptional era for both science and the public discussion of science policy. The guidelines devised by the conference enabled scientists to conduct experiments with recombinant DNA technology, which by 1995 dominated biological research. This research, in turn, increased knowledge about fundamental life processes, such as the cell cycle. Additionally, the conference along with public debates on recombinant DNA, increased public interest in biomedical research and molecular genetics. For this reason, by 1995, genetics and its vocabulary had become a part of the daily press and television news. This, in turn, stimulated knowledgeable public discussion about some of the social, political and environmental issues that emerged from genetic medicine and the use of genetically modified plants in agriculture. Another significant outcome of the conference was the precedent it set about how to respond to changes in scientific knowledge. According to the conference, the proper response to new scientific knowledge was to develop guidelines that governed how to regulate it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42569611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42569611", "title": "At Mother's Request", "text": "At Mother's Request\n\nAt Mother's Request is a 1987 two-part television miniseries based on a true story (the Franklin Bradshaw murder). The movie stars E. G. Marshall and Stefanie Powers.\n\nFrances Schreuder, a mother who is very mean to her sons, especially when they don't measure up to her expectations, and very greedy, decides she wants her inheritance from her rich father, multimillionaire Franklin Bradshaw. Frances has done some evil things to get what she wants. For example, she has forged some of her father's checks to get things she wants and had her sons steal from him when they were visiting him in his Salt Lake City business from their New York City home the summer before his death. She decides she wants her money really soon and manipulates her son Marc into murdering her father.\n\n\nParts of the miniseries were shot in Salt Lake City, Utah.\n"}
{"id": "32181298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32181298", "title": "Bach at the Sem", "text": "Bach at the Sem\n\nBach at the Sem is an annual sacred music concert series held on the campus of Concordia Seminary in suburban St. Louis. Bach at the Sem is an integral part of Concordia Seminary's educational and cultural programming to those who attend the seminary and to the St. Louis metropolitan community.\nIt is the purpose and function of Bach at the Sem to profess the\nChristian faith through the proclamation of the Church's rich heritage of sacred and classical music, especially music of Lutheran composers. Bach at the Sem concentrates on music of Johann Sebastian Bach and is also dedicated to the performance of church music from the Renaissance, Baroque, Classical, and Neoclassical periods. Typically, five or six concert\nperformances have been offered each concert season coincident with the academic\nyear of the seminary. The venue is the Chapel of St. Titus and St. Timothy on the\ncampus of Concordia Seminary; the audience is the seminary family of faculty, staff\nand students and metropolitan St. Louis.\n\nThe main performing ensemble for Bach at the Sem is the American Kantorei. The American Kantorei is an orchestral and choral ensemble \nfounded in 1968 by its director, the Rev. Prof. Robert R. Bergt. Robert Bergt's untimely death in July 2011 resulted in the appointment of Dr. Jeral Becker, Director of Vocal and Choral Activities at St. Louis University, as Interim Muic Director of Bach at the Sem for the foreseeable future. Instrumentalists and Kantorei members include some of the finest trained musicians in the St. Louis area. \n"}
{"id": "41205134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41205134", "title": "Baldwin Hotel (San Francisco)", "text": "Baldwin Hotel (San Francisco)\n\nBaldwin Hotel was a 19th-century luxury hotel and theatre built by Comstock Lode millionaire, entrepreneur, and gambler Elias Jackson \"Lucky\" Baldwin, formerly in downtown San Francisco, California. It was located on Powell Street at the corner of Market Street, near the Union Square area.\n\nThe Baldwin Theatre was completed in 1875, and the Baldwin Hotel was completed around it in 1876. The hotel was designed in the Second Empire style by architect Sumner Bugbee.\n\nThe theatre featured touring performers and it was first known as Baldwin's Academy of Music. Most of the touring performers of the day appeared there. The hotel and theatre occupied the entire block. The ground floor was divided into a number of large stores.\n\nA theatre attendee, Mrs. Frank Leslie, described the building in 1877:\n\nThe entire building was destroyed by fire in 1898. Two people were killed, and the adjacent Columbia Theater building on Powell Street suffered considerable damage. After the Baldwin Hotel building was demolished, the Flood Building was built on the site in 1904.\n\n"}
{"id": "10666800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10666800", "title": "Bids for the 2016 Summer Olympics", "text": "Bids for the 2016 Summer Olympics\n\nSeven cities submitted bids for 2016 Summer Olympics and Paralympics on September 13, 2007, aiming to host the \"Games of the XXXI Olympiad\". All of them were recognized by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) on September 14, 2007, becoming Applicant cities. Although several cities submitted to be in consideration to host the 2016 Olympics, including New York City and Los Angeles, on June 4, 2008, the IOC Executive Board shortlisted the four strongest bids to become Candidate cities. Those cities were Chicago, Madrid, Rio de Janeiro and Tokyo; the decisions were made during a meeting in Athens, Greece. The remaining Applicant cities—Baku, Doha and Prague—were eliminated.\n\nThe four Candidate cities were selected according to a detailed study of the Applicant Files received by the IOC Working Group on January 14, 2008. The four cities submitted the Candidature Files to the IOC on February 11, 2009. They were analyzed by the IOC Evaluation Commission, which made site inspections in Chicago (April 4–7, 2009), Tokyo (April 16–19, 2009), Rio de Janeiro (April 27–May 2, 2009) and Madrid (May 5–8, 2009). Under the leadership of Nawal El Moutawakel, the Evaluation Commission released its report on September 2, 2009; one month prior to the election.\n\nWith the presence of the heads of state from all four Candidate cities, the 121st IOC Session took place in Copenhagen, Denmark, on October 2, 2009. Chicago began the presentations at Bella Center; followed by Tokyo, Rio de Janeiro and Madrid; which were attended by several celebrities such as the King of Spain, Oprah Winfrey and Pelé. Before the vote, the IOC Evaluation Commission presented its report to the Session. Chicago fell in the first round, followed by Tokyo, after the eligible IOC members have been asked to vote, in a three-round exhaustive ballot process.\n\nRio de Janeiro defeated Madrid in the final round by 66 votes over 32, winning the rights to host the 2016 Summer Olympics and Paralympics. Brazil would become the first lusophone country and Rio de Janeiro the first city in South America to host the Summer Olympics. The announcement was made by Jacques Rogge, president of the IOC, in a widely broadcast ceremony. The lengthy and intensive bidding process, considered to be one of the tightest in history, was marked by several controversies such as espionage, racism and opposition movements.\n\nOut of the six cities that failed to be awarded the 2016 Olympics, four of them bid for the 2020 Summer Olympics. Baku, Doha, Madrid and Tokyo were official Applicant Cities, with Madrid and Tokyo advancing to become Candidate Cities and with Tokyo eventually being selected.\n\nThe Olympic bidding process begins with the submission of a city's application to the International Olympic Committee (IOC) by its National Olympic Committee (NOC) and ends with the election of the host city by the members of the IOC during an ordinary session. The process is governed by the Olympic Charter, as stated in Chapter 5, Rule 34.\n\nSince 1999, the process has consisted of two phases. During the first phase, which begins immediately after the bid submission deadline, the \"applicant cities\" are required to answer a questionnaire covering themes of importance to a successful Games organization. This information allows the IOC to analyze the cities' hosting capacities and the strengths and weaknesses of their plans. Following a detailed study of the submitted questionnaires and ensuing reports, the IOC Executive Board selects the cities that are qualified to proceed to the next phase. The second phase is the true candidature stage: the accepted applicant cities (from now on referred to as \"candidate cities\") are required to submit a second questionnaire in the form of an extended, more detailed, candidature file. These files are carefully studied by the IOC Evaluation Commission, a group composed of IOC members, representatives of international sport federations, NOCs, athletes, the International Paralympic Committee, and international experts in various fields. The members of the Evaluation Commission then make four-day inspection visits to each of the candidate cities, where they check the proposed venues and are briefed about details of the themes covered in the candidature file. The Evaluation Commission communicates the results of its inspections in a report sent to the IOC members up to one month before the electing IOC Session.\n\nThe IOC Session in which a host city is elected takes place in a country that did not submit an application to stage the Olympics. The election is made by the assembled active IOC members (excluding honorary and honor members), each possessing one vote. Members from countries that have a city taking part in the election cannot vote while the city is in the running. The voting is conducted in a succession of rounds until one bid achieves an absolute majority of votes; if this does not happen in the first round, the bid with the fewest votes is eliminated and another voting round begins. In the case of a tie for the lowest number of votes, a special runoff vote is carried out, with the winner proceeding to the next round. After each round, the eliminated bid is announced. Following the announcement of the host city, the successful bid delegation signs the \"Host City Contract\" with the IOC, which delegates the responsibilities of the Games organisation to the city and respective NOC.\n\nThe deadline to submit applications for the 2016 Summer Olympic Games was September 13, 2007. The seven cities that submitted bids before that date also met the January 14, 2008 deadline for submission of the first phase questionnaire. Through analysis of the questionnaires, the IOC gave a weighted-average score to each city based on the scores obtained in each of the questionnaire's eleven themes: political and social support, general infrastructure, sports venues, Olympic Village, environment, accommodation, transport, security, past experience, finance, and legacy. If a bid's score was higher than six (IOC's predefined benchmark score), the city was considered highly capable of hosting the Games; otherwise, its chances were very slim. On June 4, 2008, the IOC announced the cities accepted as candidates: Four of the five highest-rated applicants progressed to the next phase as official candidate cities. As stipulated, the IOC granted them the right to use the Olympic rings on their candidature emblem, together with a label identifying each as a Candidate City. The International Olympic Committee went against precedent when it selected Rio de Janeiro over Doha—a city which scored higher yet was eliminated from the field. Doha's weaknesses of a small population, lack of facilities, and Games dates outside of the IOC's desired window may have been too large an obstacle for the IOC to accept. Typically, the IOC selects all the top scoring bids which reach the established minimum benchmark.\n\nThe Working Group divided the Evaluation Report on eleven detailed themes and weightings: Government support, legal issues and public opinion (2); General infrastructure (5); Sports venues (4); Olympic Village(s) (3); Environmental conditions and impact (2); Accommodation (5); Transport concept (3); Safety and security (3); Experience from past sports events (2); Finance (3); and, Overall project and legacy (3). Weightings, varying between 1 and 5 (5 being the highest), were attributed by the Working Group to each criterion, reflecting the level of information requested of the Applicant Cities at this stage of the bid process, and the potential of achieving the level required for the organisation of the Olympic Games in the seven years' preparation time. The Working Group set the benchmark at 6 as minimum required grade (on a scale of 0 to 10). This grade was attributed by the Working Group to the main and sub-criteria for each Applicant City, reflecting the assessment of the Working Group (quality, number, location, concept, etc.).\n\nNawal El Moutawakel of Morocco headed the Evaluation Commission. She also chaired the evaluation commission for the 2012 Summer Olympics bids. Other members include Olympic Games Executive Director Gilbert Felli, IOC Member Ching-Kuo Wu from Chinese Taipei, IOC Member Craig Reedie from Great Britain, IOC Member Guy Drut from France, IOC Member Mounir Sabet from Egypt, IOC Member and Athletes' Commission Representative Alexander Popov from Russia, IOC Member and ASOIF Representative Els van Breda Vriesman from The Netherlands and IPC Representative Gregory Hartung from Australia.\n\nThe Commission made on-site inspections in the second quarter of 2009. visiting Chicago April 2 to 8, Tokyo April 14 to 20, Rio de Janeiro April 27 to May 3, and Madrid May 4 to 9. In a change from previous years, the commission's visits were extended from four days to seven. They issued a comprehensive technical appraisal for IOC members one month before the elections in October 2009.\n\nAt the 121st IOC Session in Copenhagen, Denmark on October 2, 2009, final voting took place. The three ballots were held within a 15 minutes period, and although the first two ballots results were announced immediately, the third ballot result was announced only about one hour later. The final result and winner was announced as Rio de Janeiro at 18:49, Copenhagen time (16:49 UTC). The results were as shown:\n\n\nTwo websites, GamesBids.com and Around the Rings, feature predicting indices which specialize in evaluations of Olympic Games bids. They periodically release analysis of the candidates and assigns them a score between 0 and 100, or 0 and 110 respectively. The score produces a number that can be used to rate a bid relative to past successful bids - and possibly gauge its potential future success. GamesBids.com's scale is called BidIndex, AtR's is called the Power Index.\n\nBoth indices correctly predicted the winner, Rio de Janeiro, but failed to predict the poor showing of Chicago, which was the first to be eliminated from the final 4, as well as the strong showing of Madrid, who was the last contender against Rio.\n\n"}
{"id": "41297394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41297394", "title": "Budapest Business Journal", "text": "Budapest Business Journal\n\nThe Budapest Business Journal or \"BBJ\" is an English-language biweekly magazine published in Hungary. It is the largest, oldest and a leading publication in its category in the country.\n\nThe \"BBJ\" was launched in November 1992 as a weekly. The magazine, based in Budapest, was converted into biweekly later. It was founded by a US-owned company headed by Stephen A. O'Connor, a US media entrepreneur. Mike Stone was also its founder. \n\nThe publisher is Absolut Media Kft. It was originally published by New World Publishing which also published the \"Warsaw Business Journal\" in Poland and the \"Prague Business Journal\" in Czechoslovakia (and later the Czech Republic) until January 2004. \n\nAs its title implies, the \"BBJ\" exclusively focuses on business news and related analysis, targeting business professionals. In addition, it provides detailed industry and company information. The magazine publishes rankings of Hungarian companies each year in a separate publication called The Book of Lists. \n\nThe \"BBJ\" was one of the independent publications and provided investigative reports in the late 1990s. In 2002 the \"BBJ\" had a circulation of 8,700 copies.\n\nThe \"BBJ\" has a website which is one of the leading business information websites in the country. As of 15 May 2013 the Alexa rank of the website was 858437.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35855779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35855779", "title": "Caretaker Cabinet of Panagiotis Pikrammenos", "text": "Caretaker Cabinet of Panagiotis Pikrammenos\n\nThe Caretaker Cabinet of Panagiotis Pikrammenos was sworn in on May 17, 2012 after the end of the period of office of the Cabinet of Lucas Papademos, when an inconclusive election on May 6, 2012 resulted in a hung parliament. According to the provisions of the Greek Constitution, President Karolos Papoulias appointed Panagiotis Pikrammenos, the outgoing chairman of the Council of State, as caretaker Prime Minister after none of the major parties was able to form a government.\n\nThe subsequent elections were held on 17 June 2012, again resulting in a hung parliament, and this cabinet served until the formation of a coalition government on 21 June 2012. \n"}
{"id": "11545783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11545783", "title": "Casco-class monitor", "text": "Casco-class monitor\n\nThe \"Casco\"-class monitor was a unique class of light draft monitor built on behalf of the United States Navy for the Mississippi theatre during the American Civil War. The largest and most ambitious ironclad program of the war, the project was dogged by delays caused by bureaucratic meddling. Twenty ships of the class were eventually built at great expense, but proved so unseaworthy when trialed that they were quickly sidelined, causing a public scandal.\n\nAfter the success of the US Navy's first monitor, , in preventing the Confederate ironclad from breaking the Union blockade at Hampton Roads in the spring of 1862, the navy became enthused with the monitor concept (at the expense of the larger broadside ironclad type), and ordered a number of new classes of monitor, one of which was the \"Casco\" class. The \"Casco\"s were a unique \"light draft\" class designed specifically for operating in the shallow bays, rivers, and inlets of the Confederacy.\n\nThe specifications for the \"Casco\" class originally called for a vessel with a light draft, not exceeding six feet, and a low freeboard to present the smallest possible target to Confederate guns. For the design of the new class, the Navy turned once again to John Ericsson, designer of USS \"Monitor\". Ericsson came up with a design for a -long vessel with a single revolving turret containing two guns, an armored upper deck, and twin screw propellers giving a top speed of around eight knots. Around the hull of the vessel, a large wooden \"raft\" was to be constructed, which would help increase buoyancy. Ericsson kept the design deliberately simple in keeping with the inexperience of the private shipyards which would be called upon to build them. He anticipated that each ship would take no more than forty days to complete.\n\nAt around the same time however, the Navy created a new \"monitor office\" to centralize oversight of the new monitor program. The new office, located across the hall from Ericsson's design bureau, was nominally headed by Rear Admiral Francis H. Gregory, but was effectively run by Chief Engineer Alban C. Stimers, to whom was entrusted the power of setting general plans and ship specifications. Stimers, an ambitious man, was keen to take credit for the design of the new monitors and frequently visited Ericsson's bureau to make changes to the specifications.\n\nThe greatest single alteration to the design however, came not directly from Stimers but from Admiral Joseph Smith, chief of the Bureau of Yards and Docks in Washington, D.C., who suggested that the oval hull of the ship be surrounded by large iron tanks which could be pumped full of water in order to lower the ship's freeboard still further when in combat to present an even smaller target, or drained for normal travel. Stimers liked the idea and ordered the changes, but when Ericsson saw the new plans he resigned from the project. The new plans greatly added to the design's complexity, requiring sophisticated pumping mechanisms, while the added weight would also reduce speed and buoyancy.\n\nIn February 1863 the monitor office offered contracts for twenty of the new \"Casco\"-class monitors, in spite of the fact that the original architect, Ericsson, had not approved the new design. Winning bidders included prominent firms like Reaney, Son & Archbold in Chester, Pennsylvania, Wilcox & Whitney at Camden, Harlan & Hollingsworth in Wilmington, Delaware and Merrick & Sons of Philadelphia (the latter of whom subcontracted much of the work to William Cramp & Sons). A number of smaller firms were also contracted. The cost was estimated at $395,000 per ship, or approximately $8 million in total. Some shipyards, such as Cramp, were forced to substantially upgrade their ironworking facilities for the production of the new vessels.\n\nBy the end of 1863, frequent design changes were causing growing problems for the contractors. Stimers and his team of thirty draftsmen at the monitor office continued to submit changes even as the vessels were in the process of production, leading to long delays. One yard in Boston received a total of 83 drawings and 120 letters of explanation from Stimers, and the specification manual for the ships grew to 92 pages of small print. The final design called for a total of thirteen auxiliary engines and pumps per ship, fancy brasswork in place of cast iron, and a complex system of pipes for draining and filling the water tanks. The added weight to a ship designed with only a freeboard at the outset raised questions about the ships' eventual seaworthiness.\n\nBy spring of 1864, the first of the \"Casco\"-class vessels, , was ready for her initial trial. Putting to sea, waves washed across the deck, while the stern remained totally submerged by three or four inches (10 cm). A second trial, of , confirmed the disaster, with waves washing over the deck and the ship only able to make a speed of 3½ knots as opposed to the original specification of eight. Moreover, the trials were conducted \"light\", without the normal operational loads of coal, ammunition and stores. The ships were unseaworthy and virtually useless.\n\nBy this stage, the twenty vessels, in various stages of completion, had cost half a million dollars apiece. Amid public scandal, the Navy set up an inquiry. Stimers was found responsible and removed from his post, and the Navy appointed experienced administrators in his place. The vessels were redesigned and refitted in order to improve buoyancy, but few of them saw active service before the end of the war and those that did were decommissioned and laid up within months, while the majority were never commissioned at all. Within a few years, all the ships of the \"Casco\" class had been retired and scrapped or otherwise disposed of.\n\n"}
{"id": "16882782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16882782", "title": "Cedar Fest", "text": "Cedar Fest\n\nCedar Fest was a celebration held in East Lansing, Michigan. The event, which started in the 1970s, was originally a semiannual party that occurred during the months of May and October. The event was held in Cedar Village, a densely populated student neighborhood bordering the Michigan State University campus. The event took off in the 1980s and was regularly attended by thousands. Several riots ensued from the parties and property owners along with the city decided to put an end to the event. In 1987 the event was banned by an injunctive order issued by Judge Carolyn Stell. For many years it was not held.\n\nCedar Fest saw a revival in 2008, 21 years after the city had officially banned the event. The revival, which began as a campaign on Facebook as early as January, promised a \"weekend long party\" that would take place \"throughout all of Cedar Village.\" It drew up to 4,000 party goers and was officially declared an unlawful assembly as police launched 24 smoke grenades, 20 flash bangs, 20 stingball grenades and 13 rounds of tear gas to disperse the out-of-control crowd. Some revelers threw bottles, cans and bricks at police officers, while two city vehicles' windows were broken, and at least four fires were set. East Lansing police Chief Tom Wibert remarked that the event \"got to the point where I don’t see how we could have dispersed that crowd without tear gas.\" In fact, Wibert said after the police used flash bangs and smoke bombs, some students began to chant for tear gas. The \"riot\" cost close to $10,000 in damages and resulted in 52 arrests, 28 of them being MSU students. Police estimated that about 5% of MSU's student population was at the event. Not a single citizen's complaint was made against the police regarding this riot, a complete turn around from the flood of complaints which occurred following the riot after the NCAA loss in 2005.\n\nObservers noted that police were more restrained compared to their handling of the 2005 riot after MSU's Final Four loss. In that incident, police began using tear gas just 15 minutes after crowds formed, launching 299 canisters in total. Eight members of the Lansing branch of the ACLU were on hand to monitor police actions during the 2008 Cedar Fest and afterwards complimented police on how the incident was handled.\n\nAt a press conference following the event, Wibert said: \n\nWith the memory of 2008's Cedar Fest fresh in the minds of Michigan State students, an unofficial Cedar Fest revival occurred Saturday, April 4, 2009 and Monday, April 6, 2009, following the Michigan State men's basketball team's successful run to the Final Four. Crowds of 2,000 and 1,700 (respectively) peacefully celebrated together in the streets outside of Cedar Village with continuous chants of \"Go Green, Go White!\" and renditions of the Michigan State University Fight Song.Over 80 arrests were made during the Final Four weekend; however, most of these arrests were related to minors possessing alcohol. A total of 11 acts of arson were reported (mostly burnt couches, an MSU tradition); however, no major incidents occurred as most revelers left Cedar Village peacefully after being asked to disperse by the police.\n\nIn 2013, students gathered at the Cedar apartments to celebrate MSU's victory in the Big Ten football championship game. After four large fires were fed with various furniture and household items for several hours, police moved in to disperse the revelers.\n\nOn March 29, 2015, after MSU advanced to the Final Four by defeating Louisville in the Elite 8 of the NCAA Basketball Tournament, hundreds of students gathered outside Cedar Village to celebrate. Police were immediately on the scene. Students began throwing dozens of bagels in the air in jubilance and a sweater was burned. Several arrests were made.\n\n"}
{"id": "21685081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21685081", "title": "Controversial issues surrounding Slumdog Millionaire", "text": "Controversial issues surrounding Slumdog Millionaire\n\nThe film \"Slumdog Millionaire\", which won eight Academy Awards in 2009, has been subjected to a number of criticisms, notably regarding how it portrays Indian society and alleged exploitation of some of the actors.\n\nOne of the first celebrities to discuss the film was Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan, from whom young Jamal eagerly seeks an autograph shortly after the beginning of the film and who was the original presenter for \"Kaun Banega Crorepati\", the Indian version of \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?\" On 13 January 2009 Bachchan wrote that in another part of his blog there were \"comments for the film \"SlumDog Millionaire\"\" which, as he noted, indicated \"anger by some on its contents.\" Bachchan also wrote: \"It's just that the SM idea authored by an Indian and conceived and cinematically put together by a Westerner, gets creative Globe recognition. The other would perhaps not.\" These remarks were widely reported on by the press in India and abroad as a criticism of the film.\n\nIn a later blog entry, Bachchan stated that his remarks had been misconstrued. He wrote: \"Fact is – some one mentioned the film on my blog...I merely put both of them up and invited debate [...] Media, in India has taken the pros and cons of OTHERS, as MINE, built their headlines and put it safely out, thereby, causing the consternation.\" In another entry, Bachchan also wrote that Anil Kapoor invited him by phone to the premiere of the film. During the same phone call, Bachchan spoke with Danny Boyle, whom he described as \"gracious and complimentary to me and my work.\" Bachchan stated that he offered his \"apologies\" to Boyle for the critical comments \"created by media\" but attributed to him, and he noted that Boyle \"understands and acknowledges my calling him.\" Following the film's release in India on 23 January 2009, Bachchan called the movie \"wonderful\" and praised the fact that A.R. Rahman had received three Oscar nominations. Bachchan wrote: \"I feel this win by Rahman and Rasool is most deserving and feel extremely proud to be an Indian.\"\n\nThe author of the song \"Darshan Do Ghanshyam\" () is said in the film to be the blind poet Surdas. However, the song is originally from the movie Narsi Bhagat (1957) written by Gopal Singh Nepali. His children have filed a complaint about the incorrect portrayal.\n\nOn 11 December 2008, the day Golden Globe nominations were announced, Chicago film critic Jan Lisa Huttner launched an online campaign questioning why Loveleen Tandan, the film's credited co-director, was not nominated along with Danny Boyle for Best Director. \"Knowing that Loveleen Tandan was a critical part of Slumdog's filmmaking and marketing phases,\" she wrote, \"how can we all sit by and watch while she's totally ignored in the awards phase?\" Huttner also provided statistics showing \"how rare it is for female directors to be in the awards race.\"\n\nAfter learning of this campaign, Tandan sought to end it, stating, \"I can't tell you how embarrassed I am by this [...] The suggestion is highly inappropriate, and I am writing to you to stress that I would not wish it to be considered.\"\n\n\"Slumdog Millionaire\"'s producer Christian Colson stated that Tandan's role as co-director was being misconstrued to place her on an equal creative footing with Boyle. Colson noted that the title of \"co-director (India)\" given to Tandan was \"strange but deserved\" and was developed over \"a Coca Cola and a cup of tea\" in order to identify her as \"one of our key cultural bridges.\"\n\nColson's remarks triggered negative feedback from multiple organisations including WomenArts, the Women Film Critics Circle, and the Women's Media Center. Eventually, even though she was not present at any prior ceremonies (including Golden Globes, BAFTA, or DGA), Tandan was a member of the team which went up on stage to accept the Oscar for Best Picture of 2009.\n\nOn 15 May 2010, Jan Lisa Huttner received a \"Silver Feather\" award from the Illinois Woman's Press Association commending her for her work on the 2009 Oscar controversy.\n\nFollowing its release in India, the film faced criticism from various members of the public alleging that the film fuels Western stereotypes about poverty in India and that it peddles \"poverty porn\". Tapeshwar Vishwakarma, a representative of a slum-dwellers' welfare group, filed a defamation lawsuit against the film's music composer A.R. Rahman and actor Anil Kapoor, alleging that grim depiction of slum dwellers violated their human rights. Vishwakarma's filing argued that the very title of the movie is derogatory, and he was particularly displeased that Indians associated with the film did not object to the use of word \"slumdog.\" Nicholas Almeida, a social activist working in Mumbai, organized a protest against the film on the grounds that it intentionally exploited the poor for the purposes of profit, also arguing that the title \"Slumdog Millionaire\" is offensive, demeaning, and insulting to their dignity. The protesters were Mumbai slum dwellers who objected to the film's title and held up signs reading: \"I am not a dog.\" Slum dwellers in Patna, the capital of the Indian state of Bihar, also protested against the movie, with the campaign reaching a climax on 26 January 2009, when \"protesters tore down posters and ransacked a movie theatre\" screening the film. The following day, the police in Bihar tightened security \"outside theatres in the state to thwart any further attacks.\" Activists stated that slum dwellers would continue to protest until the film's director deleted the word \"dog\" from the title.\n\n\"Newsweek\" magazine asked the film's director, Danny Boyle: \"Some activists have claimed that the title is demeaning. What did you mean by 'slumdog'?\" Boyle answered: \"This is one of the saddest things for me... Basically [the title] is a hybrid of the word \"underdog\"—and everything that means in terms of rooting for the underdog and validating his triumph—and the fact that he obviously comes from the slums. That's what we intended.\"\n\nThe Hindu organisations Hindu Janjagruti Samiti (HJS) and Shiv Sena protested against the film for its portrayal of the Hindu God Rama. An HJS spokesman stated that the film's portrayal of Rama is derogatory and \"hurts the sentiments of Hindus.\" Writing for the conservative Daily Pioneer, Kanchan Gupta reiterated the objections of the activist groups that the film provides a one-sided portrayal of the complexities of religious conflict in India, and that the film depicts Hindus as \"rapacious monsters\".\n\nFor their work on the movie, according to London's \"Daily Telegraph\", Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail (youngest Salim) was paid £1,700 and Rubina Ali (youngest Latika) £500. The children received considerably less than the Afghan child stars of \"The Kite Runner\", who had been paid £9,000, even though \"The Kite Runner\" was far less of a box office hit. At the end of filming for the movie, both of the child actors continued to live in makeshift shacks in the illegal slums of Bandra, a suburb of Mumbai, according to \"The Daily Telegraph\" and ABC News.\n\nOn 26 January 2009, Danny Boyle (director) and Christian Colson (producer) released a written statement saying that they had \"paid painstaking and considered attention to how Azhar and Rubina's involvement in the film could be of lasting benefit to them over and above the payment they received for their work.\" Boyle and Colson stated that they had \"set up trust funds for Rubina and Azharuddin and paid for their education.\" The filmmakers noted that they had also hired transportation to get the children to a nonprofit English-language school for the next eight years, and that both children would receive £20 a month for books and food. The exact amount of the trust funds was not disclosed by the filmmakers. As Boyle explained, \"We don't want to reveal exact figures about what's in the trust fund, what's in the bank account for them for when they leave school because it will make them vulnerable and a target really, but it is substantial, and they will hopefully gain benefit from the film long after the film has disappeared and long after the media who are chasing them at the moment sadly have lost interest in the film, and that's been our approach throughout and I think it's the right approach.\" According to \"The Economic Times\", £17,500 had been placed into a trust fund for Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail which he will receive, plus interest, when he turns 18.\n\nAzharuddin Mohammed Ismail's father, Mohammed Ismail, demanded more money for his son in light of the film's success. He stated, \"My son has taken on the world and won. I am so proud of him but I want more money. They promised me a new house but it hasn't happened. I'm still in the slum. I want the money now, it is of no use later. Mr. Boyle should take care of my son.\" He also claimed, \"There is none of the money left. It was all spent on medicines to help me fight TB.\" Defenders of the filmmakers noted that there was no assurance that any money given directly to Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail would not be used by his father for his own purposes, as had happened with previous Indian child actors from slums.\n\nBoth Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail and Rubina Ali attended the 81st Academy Awards on 22 February 2009, along with all the other actors who had played Salim, Jamal, and Latika. Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail was accompanied by his mother, Shameem Ismail, while Rubina Ali was accompanied by her uncle. On 25 February 2009, the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority announced that both Azharuddin and Rubina would be given \"free houses\" so that they would no longer have to live in the Mumbai slum of Garib Nagar. The filmmakers stated that they had hired local social workers to facilitate this move for the children's families. In the wake of Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail and Rubina Ali's newfound relative affluence, the pressures upon them from the adults in their lives increased. Rubina Ali's custody became an issue, as her biological mother tried to gain custody from the stepmother who had raised her, apparently to get access to Rubina Ali's funds and improved lifestyle. The British tabloids reported that Rubina was also recently \"offered up for sale by her father, demanding £200,000 (US$295k) for the 'Oscar child'\". The allegation has been denied by the father, who alleges that the British media has misrepresented his position and libelled him. He made a public statement decrying these accusations shortly thereafter, saying:\nAuthorities in India have conducted an investigation and have found no evidence to support the charges made by the British tabloids.\n\nMore than two years after the movie's release in London, Rubina Ali continued to live in an illegal slum in Gharib Nagar.\n\nOn 14 May 2009, the Mumbai Municipal Corporation demolished the illegal slums where Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail was living. On 7 July 2009 \"The Guardian\" reported that Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail and his mother had been given a new home. \"I was shocked when I saw this house,\" Azhar is reported to have said, adding \"I want to thank Danny Boyle for giving us this flat.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "31791517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31791517", "title": "Croatian National Theatre in Split", "text": "Croatian National Theatre in Split\n\nThe Croatian National Theatre in Split ( or HNK Split) is a theatre located in Split, Croatia. Originally opened in 1893, the theatre is owned and operated by the City of Split and is one of the oldest surviving theatres in Dalmatia.\n\nThe theatre building was originally constructed as the Split Municipal Theatre in 1893 during the tenure of then mayor Gajo Bulat. The building was designed by local architects Emilio Vecchietti and Ante Bezić while the interior decoration was done by Eugenio Scomparini, Napoleone Cozzi and Josip Varvodić. The theatre, which had a capacity of 1,000 (at a time when Split had a population of 16,000) was the biggest theatre in Southeast Europe at the time of its completion. The building was initially used to stage performances by traveling troupes (mostly Italian), as there was no full-time drama ensemble in the city of Split by the very end of the 19th century. \n\nThe first professional theatre troupe appeared in 1920, when the building underwent its first renovation and when the theatre was renamed \"Dalmatian National Theatre\". In 1928 during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia the theatre was merged with the Sarajevo National Theatre and renamed \"National Theatre for Western Regions\" (\"Narodno pozorište za zapadne oblasti\"). That same year the professional actors' ensemble was disbanded by the authorities. However, a group of artists led by Ivo Tijardović, formed the Split Theatre Society which continued to perform operas and operettas into the 1930s.\n\nIn 1940 the theatre experienced a brief period of revival, adopting its current name and for the first time housing opera, drama and ballet ensembles. The first intendant of the theatre was Tijardović, the drama section was led by Marko Fotez, while opera and ballet sections were headed by Oskar Jozefović and Ana Roje. However, the revival proved to be short-lived as the theatre was closed again in 1941 due to Italian occupation during World War II when portions of southern Croatia were incorporated into the wartime Governorship of Dalmatia. Following the end of World War II the theatre was re-established on 1 July 1945 and its first season opened in September 1945 with a performance of a play by Croatian author Mirko Bogović. \n\nThe theatre has been operating ever since. However, in February 1970 the building was nearly completely destroyed in a fire. During the following decade the house ensembles performed plays at other venues in Split until the newly rebuilt theatre opened its doors again in May 1980.\n\nHNK Split hosts around 300 performances every year, attended by a total audience of around 120,000. Some 20 to 40 opera, ballet and dramatic productions are staged per year in addition to many symphony concerts performed by the in-house orchestra. The theatre is billed as the \"premier theatre house in Dalmatia\" and \"one of the biggest and oldest theatre houses in the Mediterranean\".\n\nApart from its regular program HNK Split also organizes two long-running annual festivals:\nSplit Summer Festival (\"Splitsko ljeto\") established in 1954, the second oldest festival of performing arts in the country (after the Dubrovnik Summer Festival). The festival is usually held over a 30-day period between mid-July and mid-August and includes a great number of various events like open-air jazz and classical concerts, art exhibitions, theatre plays staged in public squares and modern dance performances. Parts of the program are usually held at historic venues such as the Diocletian's Palace.\n\nAmong the performers there were renowned conductors Kurt Adler, Mladen Bašić, Anton Guadagno, Ernst Märzendorfer, Lovro von Matačić, Boris Papandopulo, Vjekoslav Šutej, as well as famous singers like Martina Arroyo, Radmila Bakočević, Fiorenza Cedolins, Michèle Crider, Biserka Cvejić, Bonaldo Giaiotti, James McCracken, Zinka Milanov, Hasmik Papian, Enzo Sordello, Eleanor Steber, Lucilla Udovich, Ivo Vinco etc.\nDays of Marulić (\"Marulićevi dani\") was established in 1991 on the 490th anniversary of the publication of \"Judita\", one of the most important Croatian works of literature written by 15th-century author Marko Marulić. The week-long festival held in April showcases best achievements in Croatian playwriting in the preceding year. The main award at the festival, sponsored by the Ministry of Culture is the Marin Držić Award, given to the author of the best play written that year.\n\n"}
{"id": "341598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=341598", "title": "Cybercrime", "text": "Cybercrime\n\nCybercrime, or computer-oriented crime, is the crime that involves a computer and a network. The computer may have been used in the commission of a crime, or it may be the target. Cybercrimes can be defined as: \"Offences that are committed against individuals or groups of individuals with a criminal motive to intentionally harm the reputation of the victim or cause physical or mental harm, or loss, to the victim directly or indirectly, using modern telecommunication networks such as Internet (networks including but not limited to Chat rooms, emails, notice boards and groups) and mobile phones (Bluetooth/SMS/MMS)\". Cybercrime may threaten a person or a nation's security and financial health. Issues surrounding these types of crimes have become high-profile, particularly those surrounding hacking, copyright infringement, unwarranted mass-surveillance, sextortion, child pornography, and child grooming. There are also problems of privacy when confidential information is intercepted or disclosed, lawfully or otherwise. Debarati Halder and K. Jaishankar further define cybercrime from the perspective of gender and defined 'cybercrime against women' as \"Crimes targeted against women with a motive to intentionally harm the victim psychologically and physically, using modern telecommunication networks such as internet and mobile phones\". Internationally, both governmental and non-state actors engage in cybercrimes, including espionage, financial theft, and other cross-border crimes. Cybercrimes crossing international borders and involving the actions of at least one nation state is sometimes referred to as cyberwarfare.\n\nA report (sponsored by McAfee), published in 2014, estimated that the annual damage to the global economy was $445 billion. Approximately $1.5 billion was lost in 2012 to online credit and debit card fraud in the US. In 2018, a study by Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), in partnership with McAfee, concludes that close to $600 billion, nearly one percent of global GDP, is lost to cybercrime each year.\n\nComputer crime encompasses a broad range of activities.\n\nComputer fraud is any dishonest misrepresentation of fact intended to let another to do or refrain from doing something which causes loss. In this context, the fraud will result in obtaining a benefit by:\n\nOther forms of fraud may be facilitated using computer systems, including bank fraud, carding, identity theft, extortion, and theft of classified information.\n\nA variety of internet scams, many based on phishing and social engineering, target consumers and businesses.\n\nGovernment officials and information technology security specialists have documented a significant increase in Internet problems and server scans since early 2001. But there is a growing concern among government agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) and the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) that such intrusions are part of an organized effort by cyberterrorists, foreign intelligence services, or other groups to map potential security holes in critical systems. A cyberterrorist is someone who intimidates or coerces a government or an organization to advance his or her political or social objectives by launching a computer-based attack against computers, networks, or the information stored on them.\n\nCyberterrorism in general can be defined as an act of terrorism committed through the use of cyberspace or computer resources (Parker 1983). As such, a simple propaganda piece in the Internet that there will be bomb attacks during the holidays can be considered cyberterrorism. There are also hacking activities directed towards individuals, families, organized by groups within networks, tending to cause fear among people, demonstrate power, collecting information relevant for ruining peoples' lives, robberies, blackmailing etc.\n\nCyberextortion occurs when a website, e-mail server, or computer system is subjected to or threatened with repeated denial of service or other attacks by malicious hackers. These hackers demand money in return for promising to stop the attacks and to offer \"protection\". According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, cybercrime extortionists are increasingly attacking corporate websites and networks, crippling their ability to operate and demanding payments to restore their service. More than 20 cases are reported each month to the FBI and many go unreported in order to keep the victim's name out of the public domain. Perpetrators typically use a distributed denial-of-service attack. However, other cyberextortion techniques exist such as doxing extortion and bug poaching.\n\nAn example of cyberextortion was the attack on Sony Pictures of 2014.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) notes that the cyberspace has emerged as a national-level concern through several recent events of geostrategic significance. Among those are included, the attack on Estonia's infrastructure in 2007, allegedly by Russian hackers. \"In August 2008, Russia again allegedly conducted cyberattacks, this time in a coordinated and synchronized kinetic and non-kinetic campaign against the country of Georgia. The December 2015 Ukraine power grid cyberattack has also been attributed to Russia and is considered the first successful cyberattack on a power grid. Fearing that such attacks may become the norm in future warfare among nation-states, the concept of cyberspace operations impacts and will be adapted by warfighting military commanders in the future.\n\nThese crimes are committed by a selected group of criminals. Unlike crimes using the computer as a tool, these crimes require the technical knowledge of the perpetrators. As such, as technology evolves, so too does the nature of the crime. These crimes are relatively new, having been in existence for only as long as computers have—which explains how unprepared society and the world in general is towards combating these crimes. There are numerous crimes of this nature committed daily on the internet.\n\nCrimes that primarily target computer networks or devices include:\n\nWhen the individual is the main target of cybercrime, the computer can be considered as the tool rather than the target. These crimes generally involve less technical expertise. Human weaknesses are generally exploited. The damage dealt is largely psychological and intangible, making legal action against the variants more difficult. These are the crimes which have existed for centuries in the offline world. Scams, theft, and the likes have existed even before the development in high-tech equipment. The same criminal has simply been given a tool which increases their potential pool of victims and makes them all the harder to trace and apprehend.\n\nCrimes that use computer networks or devices to advance other ends include:\n\nThe unsolicited sending of bulk email for commercial purposes (spam) is unlawful in some jurisdictions.\n\nPhishing is mostly propagated via email. Phishing emails may contain links to other websites that are affected by malware. Or, they may contain links to fake online banking or other websites used to steal private account information.\n\nThe content of websites and other electronic communications may be distasteful, obscene or offensive for a variety of reasons. In some instances these communications may be illegal.\n\nThe extent to which these communications are unlawful varies greatly between countries, and even within nations. It is a sensitive area in which the courts can become involved in arbitrating between groups with strong beliefs.\n\nOne area of Internet pornography that has been the target of the strongest efforts at curtailment is child pornography, which is illegal in most jurisdictions in the world.\n\nWhereas content may be offensive in a non-specific way, harassment directs obscenities and derogatory comments at specific individuals focusing for example on gender, race, religion, nationality, sexual orientation. This often occurs in chat rooms, through newsgroups, and by sending hate e-mail to interested parties. Harassment on the internet also includes revenge porn.\n\nThere are instances where committing a crime using a computer can lead to an enhanced sentence. For example, in the case of United States v. Neil Scott Kramer, Kramer was served an enhanced sentence according to the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines Manual §2G1.3(b)(3) for his use of a cell phone to \"persuade, induce, entice, coerce, or facilitate the travel of, the minor to engage in prohibited sexual conduct.\" Kramer argued that this claim was insufficient because his charge included persuading through a computer device and his cellular phone technically is not a computer. Although Kramer tried to argue this point, U.S. Sentencing Guidelines Manual states that the term computer \"means an electronic, magnetic, optical, electrochemically, or other high-speed data processing device performing logical, arithmetic, or storage functions, and includes any data storage facility or communications facility directly related to or operating in conjunction with such device.\"\n\nConnecticut was the U.S. state to pass a statute making it a criminal offense to harass someone by computer. Michigan, Arizona, and Virginia and South Carolina have also passed laws banning harassment by electronic means.\n\nHarassment as defined in the U.S. computer statutes is typically distinct from cyberbullying, in that the former usually relates to a person's \"use a computer or computer network to communicate obscene, vulgar, profane, lewd, lascivious, or indecent language, or make any suggestion or proposal of an obscene nature, or threaten any illegal or immoral act,\" while the latter need not involve anything of a sexual nature.\n\nAlthough freedom of speech is protected by law in most democratic societies (in the US this is done by the First Amendment), it does not include all types of speech. In fact spoken or written \"true threat\" speech/text is criminalized because of \"intent to harm or intimidate\", that also applies for online or any type of network related threats in written text or speech. The US Supreme Court definition of \"true threat\" is \"statements where the speaker means to communicate a serious expression of an intent to commit an act of unlawful violence to a particular individual or group\".\n\nDarknet markets are used to buy and sell recreational drugs online. Some drug traffickers use encrypted messaging tools to communicate with drug mules. The dark web site Silk Road was a major online marketplace for drugs before it was shut down by law enforcement (then reopened under new management, and then shut down by law enforcement again). After Silk Road 2.0 went down, Silk Road 3 Reloaded emerged. However, it was just an older marketplace named Diabolus Market, that used the name for more exposure from the brand's previous success.\n\n\nThe broad diffusion of cybercriminal activities is an issue in computer crimes detection and prosecution.\nAccording to Jean-Loup Richet (Research Fellow at ESSEC ISIS), technical expertise and accessibility no longer act as barriers to entry into cybercrime. Indeed, hacking is much less complex than it was a few years ago, as hacking communities have greatly diffused their knowledge through the Internet. Blogs and communities have hugely contributed to information sharing: beginners could benefit from older hackers' knowledge and advice. Furthermore, hacking is cheaper than ever: before the cloud computing era, in order to spam or scam one needed a dedicated server, skills in server management, network configuration, and maintenance, knowledge of Internet service provider standards, etc. By comparison, a mail software-as-a-service is a scalable, inexpensive, bulk, and transactional e-mail-sending service for marketing purposes and could be easily set up for spam. Jean-Loup Richet explains that cloud computing could be helpful for a cybercriminal as a way to leverage his attack – brute-forcing a password, improve the reach of a botnet, or facilitating a spamming campaign.\n\nA computer can be a source of evidence (see digital forensics). Even where a computer is not directly used for criminal purposes, it may contain records of value to criminal investigators in the form of a logfile. In most countries Internet Service Providers are required, by law, to keep their logfiles for a predetermined amount of time. For example; a European wide Data Retention Directive (applicable to all EU member states) states that all e-mail traffic should be retained for a minimum of 12 months.\n\nMethodology of cybercrime investigation\n\nThere are many ways for cybercrime to take place, and investigations tend to start with an IP Address trace, however that is not necessarily a factual basis upon which detectives can solve a case. Different types of high-tech crime may also include elements of low-tech crime, and vice versa, making cybercrime investigators an indispensable part of modern law-enforcement. Methodology of cybercrime detective work is dynamic and is constantly improving, whether in closed police units, or in international cooperation framework.\n\nDue to easily exploitable laws, cybercriminals use developing countries in order to evade detection and prosecution from law enforcement. In developing countries, such as the Philippines, laws against cybercrime are weak or sometimes nonexistent. These weak laws allow cybercriminals to strike from international borders and remain undetected. Even when identified, these criminals avoid being punished or extradited to a country, such as the United States, that has developed laws that allow for prosecution. While this proves difficult in some cases, agencies, such as the FBI, have used deception and subterfuge to catch criminals. For example, two Russian hackers had been evading the FBI for some time. The FBI set up a fake computing company based in Seattle, Washington. They proceeded to lure the two Russian men into the United States by offering them work with this company. Upon completion of the interview, the suspects were arrested outside of the building. Clever tricks like this are sometimes a necessary part of catching cybercriminals when weak legislation makes it impossible otherwise.\n\nPresident Barack Obama released in an executive order in April 2015 to combat cybercrime. The executive order allows the United States to freeze assets of convicted cybercriminals and block their economic activity within the United States. This is some of the first solid legislation that combats cybercrime in this way.\n\nThe European Union adopted directive 2013/40/EU. All offences of the directive, and other definitions and procedural institutions are also in the Council of Europe's Convention on Cybercrime.\n\nPenalties for computer-related crimes in New York State can range from a fine and a short period of jail time for a Class A misdemeanor such as unauthorized use of a computer up to computer tampering in the first degree which is a Class C felony and can carry 3 to 15 years in prison.\n\nHowever, some hackers have been hired as information security experts by private companies due to their inside knowledge of computer crime, a phenomenon which theoretically could create perverse incentives. A possible counter to this is for courts to ban convicted hackers from using the Internet or computers, even after they have been released from prisonthough as computers and the Internet become more and more central to everyday life, this type of punishment may be viewed as more and more harsh and draconian. However, nuanced approaches have been developed that manage cyber offenders behavior without resorting to total computer or Internet bans. These approaches involve restricting individuals to specific devices which are subject to computer monitoring or computer searches by probation or parole officers.\n\nAs technology advances and more people rely on the internet to store sensitive information such as banking or credit card information, criminals increasingly attempt to steal that information. Cybercrime is becoming more of a threat to people across the world. Raising awareness about how information is being protected and the tactics criminals use to steal that information continues to grow in importance. According to the FBI's Internet Crime Complaint Center in 2014, there were 269,422 complaints filed. With all the claims combined there was a reported total loss of $800,492,073. But cybercrime does yet seem to be on the average person's radar. There are 1.5 million cyber-attacks annually, that means that there are over 4,000 attacks a day, 170 attacks every hour, or nearly three attacks every minute, with studies showing us that only 16% of victims had asked the people who were carrying out the attacks to stop. Anybody who uses the internet for any reason can be a victim, which is why it is important to be aware of how one is being protected while online.\n\nAs cybercrime has proliferated, a professional ecosystem has evolved to support individuals and groups seeking to profit from cybercriminal activities. The ecosystem has become quite specialized, including malware developers, botnet operators, professional cybercrime groups, groups specializing in the sale of stolen content, and so forth. A few of the leading cybersecurity companies have the skills, resources and visibility to follow the activities of these individuals and group. A wide variety of information is available from these sources which can be used for defensive purposes, including technical indicators such as hashes of infected files or malicious IPs/URLs, as well as strategic information profiling the goals, techniques and campaigns of the profiled groups. Some of it is freely published, but consistent, on-going access typically requires subscribing to an adversary intelligence subscription service. At the level of an individual threat actor, threat intelligence is often referred to that actor's \"TTP\", or \"tactics, techniques, and procedures,\" as the infrastructure, tools, and other technical indicators are often trivial for attackers to change. Corporate sectors are considering crucial role of artificial intelligence cyber security.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46580792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46580792", "title": "DC Fashion Week", "text": "DC Fashion Week\n\nDC Fashion Week is a biennial event in the District of Columbia, United States, held by fashion designers who convene to dress local models who have auditioned for the event.\n\nDC Fashion Week is held twice a year, in February and September.\n"}
{"id": "655883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=655883", "title": "Dafne", "text": "Dafne\n\nDafne is the earliest known work that, by modern standards, could be considered an opera. The libretto by Ottavio Rinuccini survives complete; the mostly-lost music was completed by Jacopo Peri, but at least two of the six surviving fragments are by Jacopo Corsi. \"Dafne\" was first performed during Carnival of 1598 (1597 old style) at the Palazzo Corsi.\n\n\"Dafne\" is scored for a much smaller ensemble than Claudio Monteverdi's slightly later operas, namely, a harpsichord, a lute, a viol, an archlute, and a triple flute. Drawing on a new development at the time, Peri established recitatives, melodic speech set to music, as a central part of opera.\n\nThe story of Apollo falling in love with the eponymous nymph, Daphne, the opera was written for an elite circle of humanists in Florence, the Florentine Camerata, between 1594 and 1597, with the support, and possibly the collaboration, of the composer and patron Jacopo Corsi. An attempt to revive Greek drama, according to modern scholarship, it was a long way off from what the ancient Greeks would have recognized.\n\nMost of Peri's music has been lost, despite its popularity and fame in Europe at the time of its composition, but the 455 line verse libretto was published and survives. Florence's ruling Medici family was sufficiently taken with \"Dafne\" to allow Peri's next work, \"Euridice\", to be performed as part of Marie de' Medici and Henry IV's wedding celebrations in 1600.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35969423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35969423", "title": "Domestic Abuse Restraining Order", "text": "Domestic Abuse Restraining Order\n\nA Domestic Abuse Restraining Order (DARO) is a form of restraining order or order of protection used under the domestic abuse laws of the state of Wisconsin and enforceable nationwide under invocation of the Full Faith and Credit Clause in the Violence Against Women Act (). It is a legal intervention in which one person (the respondent) who is deemed to be hurting, threatening or stalking another person (the petitioner) is ordered to stop—and often cease all direct and indirect contact—with the goal of reducing risk of further threat or harm to the petitioner. The petitioner and respondent will generally be in certain specific relationships such as a spousal or sexual relationship. If the petitioner is in an unwanted stalking relationship with the respondent, however, a closely related form of injunction, a Harassment Restraining Order (HRO) may be more appropriate.\n\nPursuant to Wis. Stat. § 813.12, domestic abuse for the purposes of obtaining either type of restraining order is defined to include intentional infliction of physical pain, physical injury or illness; intentional impairment of physical condition; sexual intercourse under Wis. Stat. § 940.225; sexual contact under Wis. Stat. § 940.225; stalking under Wis. Stat. § 940.32; damage to property under Wis. Stat. § 943.01; or a threat to do any of the above. A petitioner whose has experienced domestic abuse, under this definition, can file for either type of order for free. Pursuant to Wis. Stat. § 813.125, other forms of harassment for the purposes of obtaining a harassment restraining order include striking, shoving, kicking, or other physical abuse; or repeated intimidating acts. Petitioning for a harassment restraining order that does not qualify as domestic abuse requires the payment of a fee.\n\nIn Wisconsin there are similar processes for obtaining a domestic violence or harassment restraining order. The first step is ordinarily for the woman—the Wisconsin Coalition Against Domestic Violence generally refers to petitioners as female as most are women—to file an initial petition with the court. It is free of charge to file a petition for a domestic abuse restraining order. The harassment restraining order sometimes requires a fee but this is waived if the abuse also qualifies as domestic abuse, which it often does. The woman often begins the process under extreme stress and overwhelmed with emotion. She must provide a detailed written statement of the facts supporting the granting of the order. She may request that a temporary restraining order be granted for a period of up to 14 days. The temporary restraining order may be granted ex parte—without the abuser having the opportunity to appear in court. Unlike in some states, in Wisconsin an ex parte order can be granted on the basis of past abuse, with no further evidence of the likelihood of future abuse being needed.\n\nThe woman will also request that a full hearing—at which the abuser will be present—be held to determine whether to grant a permanent restraining order. Wisconsin courts will have jurisdiction to hear the case if the petitioner resides in Wisconsin--even if the respondent does not also reside in Wisconsin.\n\nThe temporary restraining order does not go into effect until it is served to the person being restrained. Serving the restraining order is the responsibility of the petitioner. Service can be carried out by the Sheriff's Department of the county where the harasser lives or works, or by any adult who is not a party named in the case. Judges are assigned to restraining order hearings on a rotating basis, with each judge handling restraining order hearings for one week every few months. At the full hearing, petitioners are seated on one side of the courtroom, and respondents on the other side. The hearing usually lasts about 15–30 minutes. At the hearing, both parties will have an opportunity to testify and present evidence, and the judge will make a decision. The permanent restraining order, if granted, may be in effect for up to four years, and the judge must, if granting it, grant it for as long as the petitioner requests up to four years. The order may also be granted, or extended, up to ten years if there is a substantial risk that the respondent may commit homicide or sexual assault against the petitioner. Respondents are supposed to be held by the bailiff for 15 minutes after the hearing ends to allow petitioners to leave safely, but this rule isn't always followed.\n\nAn HRO or DARO can require the harasser to stop harassing the victim, and/or avoid the victim's residence or temporary place of accommodation. Like a DARO, subsequent to 17 April 2014, an HRO may also require that the harasser avoid all contact with the victim.\n\nWisconsin is considering requiring GPS monitoring for all persons subject to a harassment or domestic abuse restraining order. At the present time, a pilot program will provide funds for testing such a program in some counties before it is implemented statewide. Once implemented, the program would make Wisconsin the only state in the country to order GPS monitoring for those who are under, but who have not violated, a restraining order. The program has not yet been implemented by the Wisconsin Department of Justice (DOJ), however. The DOJ claims that current law does not permit judges to order GPS tracking for those who have not violated a restraining order. The governor's office has pledged to tweak the language in the next budget so the program can go ahead.\n\nLaw enforcement must make an arrest if they have probable cause to believe that the abuser has violated a HRO or DARO. Upon conviction, the penalty is a fine of up to $10,000 and/or a prison term of up to 9 months. Violators may be subject to global positioning system tracking based upon a risk assessment by the department of corrections. The victim may be referred to a domestic violence or sexual assault victim service provider. An exclusion zone will be created which the violator is not permitted to enter under GPS tracking.\n\nThe HRO or DARO will generally be registered in the Protection Order File of the National Crime Information Center. At the state level, a domestic abuse restraining order will automatically trigger a restriction on owning or possessing firearms. For a harassment restraining order, such restrictions are at the discretion of the judge granting the order and are not automatic.\n\nFederal restrictions on firearms may also apply. The NCIC entry will include a \"Brady indicator\" indicating whether the restrained person is prohibited from owning firearms under federal law, with a \"Y\" indicating yes (the restrictions do apply), \"N\" for no, and \"U\" for unknown. Generally the Brady indicator will be set to \"Y\" only if certain relationships exist between the parties, such as a sexual/romantic relationship or a parent/child relationship. If the restraining order does not specify the relationship, an attempt is made to determine the relationship from other available data before setting it to \"U\". The federal Brady indicator restrictions, which are automatic if, and only if, certain conditions apply are distinct from possible state restrictions on HRO or DARO respondents possessing firearms. For an HRO, a state restriction on the respondent possessing firearms will depend on whether the judge, at his or her discretion, feels the respondent is a risk to use a firearm to harm others, but it is not automatic.\n\nThe domestic abuse and harassment restraining orders are among the several types of restraining orders used in Wisconsin. The DARO is similar to the HRO but requires that certain specific relationships exist or did exist between the parties. The child abuse restraining order is also similar but is used where the victim of the abuse is a minor. Unlike the HRO, both the domestic abuse and child abuse restraining orders carry an automatic requirement not to possess firearms under state law. The individual at risk restraining order is a restraining order designed to protect adults with significant impairment in their ability to care for themselves.\n\nThe petitioner will sometimes have a choice as to whether to file a domestic abuse or harassment restraining order. The differences between the two orders have grown less over the years. In the past the penalties were less for violating a harassment restraining order, and a full no contact order could not be issued in a harassment restraining order hearing. A petitioner whose request for a temporary restraining order was denied was formerly entitled to a later injunction hearing only for domestic abuse restraining orders. If the respondent and petitioner shared a residence, the respondent could, in the past, not be ordered to avoid that residence under a harassment restraining order. These differences have been significantly reduced. Harassment and domestic abuse restraining orders now have the same penalties for violation, and a full no contact order can now be made in either case. The respondent can now be ordered to avoid the petitioner's residence in either case. A full hearing will now be granted in either case even if the temporary order is denied provided that, in the case of a harassment restraining order, the harassment also meets the definition of domestic abuse. The significant difference between the two types of orders that remains is the fact that the domestic abuse order carries an automatic firearms ban, while the harassment order does not. Sometimes petitioners who are eligible for both will opt for the harassment order because they don't want to force the respondents to give up their firearms. This can carry significant risks for petitioners, as guns are the most common cause of domestic abuse homicides in Wisconsin. Between 2000 and 2010, there were 213 domestic abuse murders in Wisconsin by guns, more than the 194 murders by knives, other weapons, or other means combined. As such, a petitioner stipulating to a harassment restraining order rather than a domestic abuse order must be questioned to the judge as to whether she entered into the stipulation voluntarily and understands the differences between the two types of orders. The petitioner must be fully informed of the consequences of opting for a harassment restraining order.\n\nOut of state orders, including from any state, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, a tribal court, or a province or territory of Canada, may be enforced in Wisconsin with similar penalties for violation as if the out of state order was actually a Wisconsin domestic abuse restraining order.\n\nA 2006 Wisconsin study showed that female petitioners were successful about 62 percent of the time in seeking restraining orders at the full hearing where the respondents had the chance to be present. The success rate appeared to be higher if the petitioners were represented by advocates or attorneys.\n\nExperts disagree on whether restraining orders are effective in preventing further harassment. A 2010 analysis published in the \"Journal of the American Academy of Psychiatry and the Law\" reviewed 15 U.S. studies of restraining order effectiveness, and concluded that restraining orders \"can serve a useful role in threat management.\" However, a 2002 analysis of 32 U.S. studies found that restraining orders are violated an average of 40 per cent of the time and are perceived as being \"followed by worse events\" almost 21 per cent of the time, and concluded that \"evidence of [restraining orders'] relative efficacy is lacking,\" and that they may pose some degree of risk. A large America-wide telephone survey conducted in 1998 found that, of stalking victims who obtained a restraining order, more than 68 per cent reported it being violated by their stalker. \n\nThreat management experts are often suspicious of restraining orders, believing they may escalate or enrage stalkers. In his 1997 book \"The Gift Of Fear\", well-known American security specialist Gavin de Becker characterized restraining orders as \"homework assignments police give to women to prove they're really committed to getting away from their pursuers,\" and said they \"clearly serve police and prosecutors,\" but \"they do not always serve victims.\" De Becker also observed that restraining orders are most effective when the emotional involvement is lowest—for example, when used following a brief, unsatisfactory, dating relationship as opposed to with an ex-spouse. In the case of stalking, de Becker advised that restraining orders are most effective if the woman rejects once, and then obtains the restraining order immediately following any further unwanted contact. If she continues to allow contact for an extended period after an initial firm rejection, any eventual restraining order may be less effective.\n"}
{"id": "55170205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55170205", "title": "Douglas–Grumman scandal", "text": "Douglas–Grumman scandal\n\nThe Douglas-Grumman Scandal was a bribery scandal that rocked Japan in February 1979, concerning the sale of American fighter jets.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "253767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253767", "title": "Dunkirk evacuation", "text": "Dunkirk evacuation\n\nThe Dunkirk evacuation, code-named Operation Dynamo, also known as the Miracle of Dunkirk, was the evacuation of Allied soldiers during World War II from the beaches and harbour of Dunkirk, in the north of France, between 26 May and 4 June 1940. The operation commenced after large numbers of Belgian, British, and French troops were cut off and surrounded by German troops during the six-week long Battle of France. In a speech to the House of Commons, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill called this \"a colossal military disaster\", saying \"the whole root and core and brain of the British Army\" had been stranded at Dunkirk and seemed about to perish or be captured. In his \"we shall fight on the beaches\" speech on 4 June, he hailed their rescue as a \"miracle of deliverance\".\n\nAfter Nazi Germany invaded Poland in September 1939, France and the British Empire declared war on Germany and imposed an economic blockade. The British Expeditionary Force (BEF) was sent to help defend France. After the Phoney War of October 1939 to April 1940, Germany invaded Belgium, the Netherlands, and France on 10 May 1940. Three of their panzer corps attacked through the Ardennes and drove northwest to the English Channel. By 21 May German forces had trapped the BEF, the remains of the Belgian forces, and three French field armies along the northern coast of France. Commander of the BEF, General Viscount Gort, immediately saw evacuation across the Channel as the best course of action, and began planning a withdrawal to Dunkirk, the closest good port.\n\nLate on 23 May, a halt order was issued by \"Generaloberst\" Gerd von Rundstedt, commander of Army Group A. Adolf Hitler approved the order the next day and had the German High Command send confirmation to the front. Destroying the trapped BEF, French, and Belgian armies was left to the \"Luftwaffe\" until the order was rescinded on 26 May. This gave trapped Allied forces time to construct defensive works and pull back large numbers of troops to fight the Battle of Dunkirk. From 28 to 31 May, in the Siege of Lille, the remaining 40,000 men of the once-formidable French First Army fought a delaying action against seven German divisions, including three armoured divisions.\n\nOn the first day only 7,669 Allied soldiers were evacuated, but by the end of the eighth day, 338,226 of them had been rescued by a hastily assembled fleet of over 800 boats. Many troops were able to embark from the harbour's protective mole onto 39 British Royal Navy destroyers, four Royal Canadian Navy destroyers, and a variety of civilian merchant ships, while others had to wade out from the beaches, waiting for hours in shoulder-deep water. Some were ferried to the larger ships by what came to be known as the little ships of Dunkirk, a flotilla of hundreds of merchant marine boats, fishing boats, pleasure craft, yachts, and lifeboats called into service from Britain. The BEF lost 68,000 soldiers during the French campaign and had to abandon nearly all of its tanks, vehicles, and equipment. In his speech to the House of Commons on 4 June, Churchill reminded the country that \"we must be very careful not to assign to this deliverance the attributes of a victory. Wars are not won by evacuations.\"\n\nIn September 1939, after Nazi Germany invaded Poland, the United Kingdom sent the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) to aid in the defence of France, landing at Cherbourg, Nantes, and Saint-Nazaire. By May 1940 the force consisted of ten divisions in three corps under the command of General John Vereker, 6th Viscount Gort. Working with the BEF were the Belgian Army and the French First, Seventh, and Ninth Armies.\n\nDuring the 1930s, the French had constructed the Maginot Line, a series of fortifications along their border with Germany. This line had been designed to deter a German invasion across the Franco-German border and funnel an attack into Belgium, which could then be met by the best divisions of the French Army. Thus, any future war would take place outside of French territory, avoiding a repeat of the First World War. The area immediately to the north of the Maginot Line was covered by the heavily wooded Ardennes region, which French General Philippe Pétain declared to be \"impenetrable\" as long as \"special provisions\" were taken. He believed that any enemy force emerging from the forest would be vulnerable to a pincer attack and destroyed. The French commander-in-chief, Maurice Gamelin, also believed the area to be of a limited threat, noting that it \"never favoured large operations\". With this in mind, the area was left lightly defended.\n\nThe initial plan for the German invasion of France called for an encirclement attack through the Netherlands and Belgium, avoiding the Maginot Line. Erich von Manstein, then Chief of Staff of the German Army Group A, prepared the outline of a different plan and submitted it to the OKH (German High Command) via his superior, \"Generaloberst\" Gerd von Rundstedt. Manstein's plan suggested that Panzer divisions should attack through the Ardennes, then establish bridgeheads on the Meuse River and rapidly drive to the English Channel. The Germans would thus cut off the Allied armies in Belgium. This part of the plan later became known as the \"Sichelschnitt\" (\"sickle cut\"). Adolf Hitler approved a modified version of Manstein's ideas, today known as the Manstein Plan, after meeting with him on 17 February.\n\nOn 10 May, Germany invaded Belgium and the Netherlands. Army Group B, under \"Generaloberst\" Fedor von Bock, attacked into Belgium, while the three Panzer corps of Army Group A under Rundstedt swung around to the south and drove for the Channel. The BEF advanced from the Belgian border to positions along the River Dyle within Belgium, where they fought elements of Army Group B starting on 10 May. They were ordered to begin a fighting withdrawal to the Scheldt River on 14 May when the Belgian and French positions on their flanks failed to hold. During a visit to Paris on 17 May, Prime Minister Winston Churchill was astonished to learn from Gamelin that the French had committed all their troops to the ongoing engagements and had no strategic reserves. On 19 May, Gort met with French General Gaston Billotte, commander of the French First Army and overall coordinator of the Allied forces. Billotte revealed that the French had no troops between the Germans and the sea. Gort immediately saw that evacuation across the Channel was the best course of action, and began planning a withdrawal to Dunkirk, the closest location with good port facilities. Surrounded by marshes, Dunkirk boasted old fortifications and the longest sand beach in Europe, where large groups could assemble. On 20 May, on Churchill's suggestion, the Admiralty began arranging for all available small vessels to be made ready to proceed to France. After continued engagements and a failed Allied attempt on 21 May at Arras to cut through the German spearhead, the BEF was trapped, along with the remains of the Belgian forces and the three French armies, in an area along the coast of northern France and Belgium.\n\nWithout informing the French, the British began planning on 20 May for Operation Dynamo, the evacuation of the BEF. This planning was headed by Vice Admiral Bertram Ramsay at the naval headquarters below Dover Castle, from which he briefed Churchill as it was under way. Ships began gathering at Dover for the evacuation. On 20 May, the BEF sent Brigadier Gerald Whitfield to Dunkirk to start evacuating unnecessary personnel. Overwhelmed by what he later described as \"a somewhat alarming movement towards Dunkirk by both officers and men\", due to a shortage of food and water, he had to send many along without thoroughly checking their credentials. Even officers ordered to stay behind to aid the evacuation disappeared onto the boats.\n\nOn 22 May, Churchill ordered the BEF to attack southward in co-ordination with the French First Army under General Georges Blanchard to reconnect with the remainder of the French forces. This proposed action was dubbed the Weygand Plan after General Maxime Weygand, appointed Supreme Commander after Gamelin's dismissal on 18 May. On 25 May, Gort had to abandon any hope of achieving this objective and withdrew on his own initiative, along with Blanchard's forces behind the Lys Canal, part of a canal system that reached the sea at Gravelines. Sluice gates had already been opened all along the canal to flood the system and create a barrier (the Canal Line) against the German advance.\n\nBy 24 May, the Germans had captured the port of Boulogne and surrounded Calais. The engineers of the 2nd Panzer Division under \"Generalmajor\" Rudolf Veiel built five bridges over the Canal Line and only one British battalion barred the way to Dunkirk. On 23 May, at the suggestion of Fourth Army commander \"Generalfeldmarschall\" Günther von Kluge, Rundstedt had ordered the panzer units to halt, concerned about the vulnerability of his flanks and the question of supply to his forward troops. He was also concerned that the marshy ground around Dunkirk would prove unsuitable for tanks and he wished to conserve them for later operations (in some units, tank losses were 30–50 percent). Hitler was also apprehensive, and on a visit to Army Group A headquarters on 24 May, he endorsed the order.\n\nAir Marshal Hermann Göring urged Hitler to let the \"Luftwaffe\" (aided by Army Group B) finish off the British, to the consternation of General Franz Halder, who noted in his diary that the \"Luftwaffe\" was dependent upon the weather and air crews were worn out after two weeks of battle. Rundstedt issued another order, which was sent uncoded. It was picked up by the RAF Y service at 12:42: \"By order of the Fuhrer ... attack north-west of Arras is to be limited to the general line Lens–Bethune–Aire–St Omer–Gravelines. The Canal will not be crossed.\" Later that day, Hitler issued Directive 13, which called for the \"Luftwaffe\" to defeat the trapped Allied forces and stop their escape. At 15:30 on 26 May, Hitler ordered the panzer groups to continue their advance, but most units took another 16 hours to attack. The delay gave the Allies time to prepare defences vital for the evacuation and prevented the Germans from stopping the Allied retreat from Lille.\n\nThe halt order has been the subject of much discussion by historians. Guderian considered the failure to order a timely assault on Dunkirk to be one of the major German mistakes on the Western Front. Rundstedt called it \"one of the great turning points of the war\", and Manstein described it as \"one of Hitler's most critical mistakes\". B. H. Liddell Hart interviewed many of the generals after the war and put together a picture of Hitler's strategic thinking on the matter. Hitler believed that once Britain's troops left continental Europe, they would never return.\n\nThe retreat was undertaken amid chaotic conditions, with abandoned vehicles blocking the roads and a flood of refugees heading in the opposite direction. Due to wartime censorship and the desire to keep up British morale, the full extent of the unfolding disaster at Dunkirk was not initially publicised. A special service attended by King George VI was held in Westminster Abbey on 26 May, which was declared a national day of prayer. The Archbishop of Canterbury led prayers \"for our soldiers in dire peril in France\". Similar prayers were offered in synagogues and churches throughout the UK that day, confirming to the public their suspicion of the desperate plight of the troops. Just before 19:00 on 26 May, Churchill ordered Dynamo to begin, by which time 28,000 men had already departed. Initial plans called for the recovery of 45,000 men from the BEF within two days, at which time German troops were expected to block further evacuation. Only 25,000 men escaped during this period, including 7,669 on the first day.\nOn 27 May, the first full day of the evacuation, one cruiser, eight destroyers, and 26 other craft were active. Admiralty officers combed nearby boatyards for small craft that could ferry personnel from the beaches out to larger craft in the harbour, as well as larger vessels that could load from the docks. An emergency call was put out for additional help, and by 31 May nearly four hundred small craft were voluntarily and enthusiastically taking part in the effort.\n\nThe same day, the \"Luftwaffe\" heavily bombed Dunkirk, both the town and the dock installations. As the water supply was knocked out, the resulting fires could not be extinguished. An estimated thousand civilians were killed, one-third of the remaining population of the town. The \"Luftwaffe\" was met by 16 squadrons of the Royal Air Force, who claimed 38 kills on 27 May while losing 14 aircraft. Many more RAF fighters sustained damage and were subsequently written off. KG 2 and KG 3 suffered the heaviest casualties. German losses amounted to 23 Dornier Do 17s. KG 1 and KG 4 bombed the beach and harbour and KG 54 sank the 8,000-ton steamer \"Aden\". Junkers Ju 87 \"stuka\" dive bombers sank the troopship \"Cote d' Azur\". The \"Luftwaffe\" engaged with 300 bombers which were protected by 550 fighter sorties, and attacked Dunkirk in twelve raids. They dropped 15,000 high explosive and 30,000 incendiary bombs, destroying the oil tanks and wrecking the harbour. No. 11 Group RAF flew 22 patrols with 287 aircraft this day, in formations of up to 20 aircraft.\n\nAltogether, over 3,500 sorties were flown in support of Operation Dynamo. The RAF continued to take a heavy toll on the German bombers throughout the week. Soldiers being bombed and strafed while awaiting transport were for the most part unaware of the efforts of the RAF to protect them, as most of the dogfights took place far from the beaches. As a result, many British soldiers bitterly accused the airmen of doing nothing to help.\n\nOn 25 and 26 May, the \"Luftwaffe\" focused their attention on Allied pockets holding out at Calais, Lille, and Amiens, and did not attack Dunkirk. Calais, held by the BEF, surrendered on 26 May. Remnants of the French First Army, surrounded at Lille, fought off seven German divisions (several of them armoured) until 31 May, when the remaining 35,000 soldiers were forced to surrender after running out of food and ammunition. The Germans accorded the honours of war to the defenders of Lille in recognition of their bravery.\n\nThe Belgian Army surrendered on 28 May, leaving a large gap to the east of Dunkirk. Several British divisions were rushed in to cover that side. The \"Luftwaffe\" flew fewer sorties over Dunkirk on 28th. German attention switched to the Belgian ports Ostend and Nieuport. The weather over Dunkirk was not conducive to dive or low-level bombing. The RAF flew 11 patrols and 321 sorties claiming 23 destroyed with the loss of 13 aircraft. On 28 May, 17,804 soldiers arrived at British ports.\n\nOn 29 May, 47,310 British troops were rescued as the \"Luftwaffe\"s Ju 87s exacted a heavy toll on shipping. The British destroyer HMS \"Grenade\" was sunk and the French destroyer \"Mistral\" was crippled while her sister ships, each laden with 500 men, were damaged by near misses. British destroyers \"Jaguar\" and \"Verity\" were badly damaged but escaped the harbour. Two trawlers disintegrated in the attack. Later, the passenger steamer \"SS Fenella\" sank with 600 men aboard at the pier but the men were able to get off. A fourth, \"Crested Eagle\", suffered a direct hit, caught fire, and sank with severe casualties. The raiders also destroyed the two rail-owned ships, the \"SS Lorina\" and the \"SS Normannia\". Of the five major German attacks, just two were contested by RAF fighters; the British lost 16 fighters in nine patrols. German losses amounted to 11 Ju 87s destroyed or damaged.\n\nOn 30 May, Churchill received word that all British divisions were now behind the defensive lines, along with more than half of the French First Army. By this time, the perimeter ran along a series of canals about from the coast, in marshy country not suitable for tanks. With the docks in the harbour rendered unusable by German air attacks, senior naval officer Captain (later Admiral) William Tennant initially ordered men to be evacuated from the beaches. When this proved too slow, he re-routed the evacuees to two long stone and concrete breakwaters, called the East and West Mole, as well as the beaches. Almost 200,000 troops embarked on ships from the East Mole (which stretched nearly a mile out to sea) over the next week. Once more, low cloud had prohibited German air operations and kept the \"Luftwaffe\" activity to a minimum. Nine RAF patrols were mounted, with no German formation encountered. The following day the \"Luftwaffe\" sank one transport and damaged 12 others for 17 losses; the British claimed 38 kills, which may have been an exaggeration. The RAF and Fleet Air Arm lost 28 aircraft.\n\nOf the total 338,226 soldiers, several hundred were unarmed Indian mule handlers on detachment from the Royal Indian Army Service Corps, forming four of the six units of Force K-6 transport. Cypriot muleteers were also present. Three units were successfully evacuated and one captured. Also present at Dunkirk were a small number of French Senegalese soldiers and Moroccans.\n\nThe next day, an additional 53,823 men were embarked, including the first French soldiers. Lord Gort and 68,014 men were evacuated on 31 May, leaving Major-General Harold Alexander in command of the rearguard. A further 64,429 Allied soldiers departed on 1 June, before the increasing air attacks prevented further daylight evacuation. The British rearguard of 4,000 men left on the night of 2–3 June. An additional 75,000 French troops were retrieved over the nights of 2–4 June, before the operation finally ended. The remainder of the rearguard, 40,000 French troops, surrendered on 4 June. Churchill made a point of stating in his \"We shall fight on the beaches\" address in the House on 4 June, that the evacuation had been made possible through the efforts of the RAF.\n\nThree routes were allocated to the evacuating vessels. The shortest was Route Z, a distance of , but it entailed hugging the French coast and thus ships using it were subject to bombardment from on-shore batteries, particularly in daylight hours. Route X, although the safest from shore batteries, travelled through a particularly heavily mined portion of the Channel. Ships on this route travelled north out of Dunkirk, proceeded through the Ruytingen Pass, and headed towards the North Goodwin Lightship before heading south around the Goodwin Sands to Dover. The route was safest from surface attacks, but the nearby minefields and sand banks meant it could not be used at night. The longest of the three was Route Y, a distance of ; using this route increased the sailing time to four hours, double the time required for Route Z. This route followed the French coast as far as Bray-Dunes, then turned north-east until reaching the Kwinte Buoy. Here, after making an approximately 135-degree turn, the ships sailed west to the North Goodwin Lightship and headed south around the Goodwin Sands to Dover. Ships on Route Y were the most likely to be attacked by German surface vessels, submarines, and the \"Luftwaffe\".\n\nThe Royal Navy provided the anti-aircraft cruiser HMS \"Calcutta\", 39 destroyers, and many other craft. The Merchant Navy supplied passenger ferries, hospital ships, and other vessels. Britain's Belgian, Dutch, Canadian, and French allies provided vessels as well. Admiral Ramsay arranged for around a thousand copies to be made of the required charts, had buoys laid around the Goodwin Sands and down to Dunkirk, and organised the flow of shipping. Larger ships such as destroyers were able to carry about 900 men per trip. The soldiers mostly travelled on the upper decks for fear of being trapped below if the ship sank. After the loss on 29 May of 19 British and French navy ships plus three of the larger requisitioned vessels, the Admiralty withdrew their eight best destroyers for the future defence of the country.\n\nA wide variety of small vessels from all over the south of England were pressed into service to aid in the Dunkirk evacuation. They included speedboats, Thames vessels, car ferries, pleasure craft, and many other types of small craft. The most useful proved to be the motor lifeboats, which had a reasonably good capacity and speed. Some boats were requisitioned without the owner's knowledge or consent. Agents of the Ministry of Shipping, accompanied by a naval officer, scoured the Thames for likely looking vessels, had them checked for seaworthiness, and took them downriver to Sheerness, where naval crews were to be placed aboard. Due to shortages of personnel, many small craft crossed the Channel with civilian crews.\n\nThe first of the \"little ships\" arrived at Dunkirk on 28 May. The wide sand beaches meant that large vessels could not get anywhere near the shore, and even small craft had to stop about from the waterline and wait for the soldiers to wade out. In many cases, personnel would abandon their boat upon reaching a larger ship, and subsequent evacuees had to wait for boats to drift ashore with the tide before they could make use of them. In most areas on the beaches, soldiers queued up with their units and patiently awaited their turn to leave. But at times, panicky soldiers had to be warned off at gunpoint when they attempted to rush to the boats out of turn. In addition to ferrying out on boats, soldiers at De Panne and Bray-Dunes constructed improvised jetties by driving rows of abandoned vehicles onto the beach at low tide, anchoring them with sandbags, and connecting them with wooden walkways.\n\nBefore the operation was completed, the prognosis had been gloomy, with Churchill warning the House of Commons on 28 May to expect \"hard and heavy tidings\". Subsequently, Churchill referred to the outcome as a \"miracle\", and the British press presented the evacuation as a \"disaster turned to triumph\" so successfully, that Churchill had to remind the country, in a speech to the House of Commons on 4 June, that \"we must be very careful not to assign to this deliverance the attributes of a victory. Wars are not won by evacuations.\"\n\nThree British divisions and a host of logistic and labour troops were cut off to the south of the Somme by the German \"race to the sea\". At the end of May, a further two divisions began moving to France with the hope of establishing a Second BEF. The majority of the 51st (Highland) Division was forced to surrender on 12 June, but almost 192,000 Allied personnel, 144,000 of them British, were evacuated through various French ports from 15–25 June under the codename Operation Ariel. The Germans marched into Paris on 14 June and France surrendered eight days later.\n\nThe more than 100,000 French troops evacuated from Dunkirk were quickly and efficiently shuttled to camps in various parts of south-western England, where they were temporarily lodged before being repatriated. British ships ferried French troops to Brest, Cherbourg, and other ports in Normandy and Brittany, although only about half of the repatriated troops were redeployed against the Germans before the surrender of France. For many French soldiers, the Dunkirk evacuation represented only a few weeks' delay before being killed or captured by the German army after their return to France. Of the French soldiers evacuated from France in June 1940, about 3,000 joined Charles de Gaulle's Free French army in Britain.\n\nIn France, the unilateral British decision to evacuate through Dunkirk rather than counter-attack to the south, and the perceived preference of the Royal Navy for evacuating British forces at the expense of the French, led to some bitter resentment. According to Churchill, French Admiral François Darlan originally ordered that the British forces should receive preference, but on 31 May, he intervened at a meeting in Paris to order that the evacuation should proceed on equal terms and that the British would form the rearguard. In fact, the 35,000 men who finally surrendered after covering the final evacuations were mostly French soldiers of 2nd Light Mechanized Division and the 68th Infantry Division. Their resistance allowed the evacuation effort to be extended to 4 June, on which date another 26,175 Frenchmen were transported to England.\n\nThe evacuation was presented to the German public as an overwhelming and decisive German victory. On 5 June 1940, Hitler stated \"Dunkirk has fallen! 40,000 French and English troops are all that remains of the formerly great armies. Immeasurable quantities of material have been captured. The greatest battle in the history of the world has come to an end.\" \"Oberkommando der Wehrmacht\" (OKW, the German armed forces high command) announced the event as \"the greatest annihilation battle of all time\".\n\nThe BEF lost 68,000 soldiers (dead, wounded, missing, or captured) from 10 May until the armistice with France on 22 June. 3,500 British were killed and 13,053 wounded. All the heavy equipment had to be abandoned. Left behind in France were 2,472 guns, 20,000 motorcycles, and almost 65,000 other vehicles; also abandoned were of stores, more than of ammunition and of fuel. Almost all of the 445 British tanks that had been sent to France with the BEF were abandoned.\nSix British and three French destroyers were sunk, along with nine other major vessels. In addition, 19 destroyers were damaged. Over 200 British and Allied sea craft were sunk, with a similar number damaged. The Royal Navy's most significant losses in the operation were six destroyers:\n\nThe French Navy lost three destroyers:\n\nThe RAF lost 145 aircraft, of which at least 42 were Spitfires, while the \"Luftwaffe\" lost 156 aircraft in operations in the nine days of Operation Dynamo, including 35 destroyed by Royal Navy ships (plus 21 damaged) during the six days from 27 May to 1 June.\n\nFor every seven soldiers who escaped through Dunkirk, one man was left behind as a prisoner of war. The majority of these prisoners were sent on forced marches into Germany. Prisoners reported brutal treatment by their guards, including beatings, starvation, and murder. Another complaint was that German guards kicked over buckets of water that had been left at the roadside by French civilians for the marching prisoners to drink.\n\nMany of the prisoners were marched to the city of Trier, with the march taking as long as 20 days. Others were marched to the river Scheldt and were sent by barge to the Ruhr. The prisoners were then sent by rail to prisoner of war camps in Germany. The majority (those below the rank of corporal) then worked in German industry and agriculture for the remainder of the war.\n\nThe missing dead of the BEF are commemorated on the Dunkirk Memorial.\n\nThe St George's Cross defaced with the arms of Dunkirk flown from the jack staff is the warranted house flag of the Association of Dunkirk Little Ships. It is known as the Dunkirk jack. The flag is flown only by civilian vessels that took part in the Dunkirk rescue operation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "302125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302125", "title": "E. Howard Hunt", "text": "E. Howard Hunt\n\nEverette Howard Hunt Jr. (October 9, 1918 – January 23, 2007), better known as E. Howard Hunt, was an American intelligence officer and published author of 73 books. From 1949 to 1970, Hunt served as an officer in the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Along with G. Gordon Liddy and others, Hunt was one of the Nixon administration \"plumbers\", a team of operatives charged with identifying government sources of national security information \"leaks\" to outside parties. Hunt and Liddy plotted the Watergate burglaries and other clandestine operations for the Nixon administration. In the ensuing Watergate scandal, Hunt was convicted of burglary, conspiracy, and wiretapping, eventually serving 33 months in prison.\n\nHunt was born in Hamburg, New York, United States, the son of Ethel Jean (Totterdale) and Everette Howard Hunt Sr., an attorney and Republican Party official. He graduated from Hamburg High School in 1936 and Brown University in 1940. During World War II, Hunt served in the U.S. Navy on the destroyer USS \"Mayo\", the United States Army Air Corps, and finally, the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) in China.\n\nHunt was a prolific author. During and after the war, he wrote several novels under his own name, including \"East of Farewell\" (1942), \"Limit of Darkness\" (1944), \"Stranger in Town\" (1947), \"Bimini Run\" (1949), and \"The Violent Ones\" (1950) . He also wrote, more famously, several spy and hardboiled novels under an array of pseudonyms, including Robert Dietrich, Gordon Davis and David St. John. Hunt won a Guggenheim Fellowship for his writing in 1946. Some of his writings found parallels in his espionage and Watergate experiences.\n\nWarner Bros. had just bought rights to Hunt's novel \"Bimini Run\" when he joined the CIA's Office of Policy Coordination (OPC) in October 1949 as a covert action officer specializing in political action and influence, in what later came to be called the CIA's Special Activities Division. The CIA was the successor organization of the OSS.\n\nAccording to David Talbot, \"Howard Hunt prided himself on being part of the CIA’s upper tier. But that’s not how he was viewed at the top of the agency. Hunt liked to brag that he had family connections to Wild Bill Donovan himself, who had admitted him into the OSS, the original roundtable of American intelligence. But it turned out that Hunt’s father was a lobbyist in upstate New York to whom Donovan owed a favor, not a fellow Wall Street lawyer. Everyone knew Hunt was a writer, but they also knew he was no Ian Fleming. To the Georgetown set, there would always be something low-rent about men like Hunt—as well as William Harvey and David Morales. The CIA was a cold hierarchy. Men like this would never be invited for lunch with Allen Dulles at the Alibi Club or to play tennis with Dick Helms at the Chevy Chase Club. These men were indispensable—until they became expendable.\"\n\nHunt became the OPC Station Chief in Mexico City in 1950, and recruited and supervised William F. Buckley Jr., who worked in Hunt's OPC Station in Mexico during the period 1951–1952. Buckley and Hunt remained lifelong friends and Buckley became godfather to Hunt's first three children.\n\nIn Mexico, Hunt helped lay the framework for Operation PBFORTUNE, later renamed Operation PBSUCCESS, the successful covert operation to overthrow Jacobo Árbenz, the democratic elected president of Guatemala. Hunt was assigned as Chief of Covert Action in Japan. He afterwards served as Chief of Station in Uruguay, (where he was noted by American diplomatic contemporary Samuel F. Hart for controversial working methods). Hunt was subsequently given the assignment of forging Cuban exile leaders in the United States into a broadly representative government-in-exile that would, after the Bay of Pigs Invasion, form a pro-American Puppet state to take over Cuba. The failure of the invasion temporarily damaged his career.\n\nHunt was undeniably bitter about what he perceived as President John F. Kennedy's lack of commitment in attacking and overthrowing the government of Cuba. In his semi-fictional autobiography, \"Give Us This Day\", he wrote: \"The Kennedy administration yielded Castro all the excuse he needed to gain a tighter grip on the island of José Martí, then moved shamefacedly into the shadows and hoped the Cuban issue would simply melt away.\"\n\nAfter the Bay of Pigs fiasco, Hunt was reassigned as Executive Assistant to Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) Allen Dulles. While Hunt was working on Brigade 2506, he helped Dulles write \"The Craft of Intelligence\" (1959).\n\nAfter President John F. Kennedy fired Dulles in 1961 for the Bay of Pigs failure, Hunt served as the first Chief of Covert Action for the Domestic Operations Division (DODS) from 1962 to 1964.\n\nHunt told \"The New York Times\" in 1974 that he spent about four years working for DODS, beginning shortly after it was set up by the Kennedy administration in 1962, over the \"strenuous opposition\" of Richard Helms and Thomas H. Karamessines. He said that the division was assembled shortly after the Bay of Pigs operation, and that \"many men connected with that failure were shunted into the new domestic unit.\" He said that some of his projects from 1962 to 1966, which dealt largely with the subsidizing and manipulation of news and publishing organizations in the US, \"did seem to violate the intent of the agency's charter.\" In 1964, DCI John A. McCone directed Hunt to take a special assignment as a Non-Official Cover (NOC) officer in Madrid, Spain, tasked to create the American answer to Ian Fleming's British MI-6 James Bond novel series. While assigned in Spain, Hunt was covered as a recently retired U.S. State Department Foreign Service Officer (FSO) who had moved his family to Spain in order to write the first installment of the 9-novel Peter Ward series, \"On Hazardous Duty\" (1965).\n\nAfter a year and a half in Spain, Hunt returned to his assignment at DODS. Following a brief tenure on the Special Activities Staff of the Western European Division, he became Chief of Covert Action for the region (while remaining based in the Washington metropolitan area) in July 1968. Hunt was lauded for his \"sagacity, balance and imagination\", and received the second-highest rating of Strong (signifying \"performance... characterized by exceptional proficiency\") in a performance review from the Division's Chief of Operations in April 1969. However, this was downgraded to the third-highest rating of Adequate in an amendment from the Division's Deputy Chief, who recognized Hunt's \"broad experience\" but opined that \"a series of personal and taxing problems\" had \"tended to dull his cutting edge.\" Hunt would later maintain that he \"had been stigmatized by the Bay of Pigs\", and had come to terms with the fact that he \"would not get promoted too much higher.\"\n\nIn these final years of Hunt's CIA service, he began to cultivate new contacts in \"society and the business world.\" While serving as vice president of the Brown University Club of Washington, he befriended and commenced a strong association with the organization's president, former congressional aide Charles Colson, who soon began working on Richard Nixon's presidential campaign. Hunt retired from the CIA at the pay grade of GS-15, Step 8 on April 30, 1970.\n\nHe went to work for the Robert R. Mullen Company, which cooperated with the CIA; H. R. Haldeman, White House Chief of Staff to President Nixon, wrote in 1978 that the Mullen Company was in fact a CIA front company, a fact that was apparently unknown to Haldeman while he worked in the White House. Through CIA's Project QKENCHANT, Hunt obtained a Covert Security Approval to handle the firm's affairs during Mullen's absence from Washington. The following year, he was hired as a consultant by Charles Colson, now Special Counsel to President Richard Nixon, and joined the White House Special Investigations Unit.\n\nHaving neglected to elect survivorship benefits for his wife upon retiring from the CIA, Hunt raised the possibility of returning to active duty for a short period of time in exchange for activating the benefits upon his proposed second retirement in a May 5, 1972 letter to CIA General Counsel Lawrence Houston. (An April 1971 request to retroactively amend his election was rebuffed by the agency.) However, Houston advised Hunt in his May 16 response that this \"would be in violation of the spirit of the CIA Retirement Act\".\n\nHunt's first assignment for the White House was a covert operation to break into the Los Angeles office of Daniel Ellsberg's psychiatrist, Lewis J. Fielding. In July 1971, Fielding had refused a request from the Federal Bureau of Investigation for psychiatric data on Ellsberg. Hunt and Liddy cased the building in late August. The burglary, on September 3, 1971, was not detected, but no Ellsberg files were found.\n\nAlso in the summer of 1971, Colson authorized Hunt to travel to New England to seek potentially scandalous information on Senator Edward Kennedy, specifically pertaining to the Chappaquiddick incident and to Kennedy's possible extramarital affairs. Hunt sought and used CIA disguises and other equipment for the project. This mission eventually proved unsuccessful, with little if any useful information uncovered by Hunt.\n\nHunt's White House duties included assassinations-related disinformation. In September 1971, Hunt forged and offered to a \"Life\" magazine reporter two top-secret U.S. State Department cables designed to prove that President Kennedy had personally and specifically ordered the assassination of Ngo Dinh Diem and his brother, Ngô Đình Nhu. Hunt told the Senate Watergate Committee in 1973 that he had fabricated the cables to show a link between President Kennedy and the assassination of Diem, a Catholic, to estrange Catholic voters from the Democratic Party, after Colson suggested he \"might be able to improve upon the record.\"\n\nAccording to Seymour Hersh, writing in \"The New Yorker\", Nixon White House tapes show that after presidential candidate George Wallace was shot on May 15, 1972, Nixon and Colson agreed to send Hunt to the Milwaukee home of the gunman, Arthur Bremer, to place McGovern presidential campaign material there. The intention was to link Bremer with the Democrats. Hersh writes that, in a taped conversation, \"Nixon is energized and excited by what seems to be the ultimate political dirty trick: the FBI and the Milwaukee police will be convinced, and will tell the world, that the attempted assassination of Wallace had its roots in left-wing Democratic politics.\" Hunt did not make the trip, however, because the FBI had moved too quickly to seal Bremer's apartment and place it under police guard.\n\nHunt organized the bugging of the Democratic National Committee at the Watergate office building.\n\nA few days after the break-in, Nixon was recorded saying, to H. R. Haldeman, \"This fellow Hunt, he knows too damn much.\"\n\n[V]ery bad, to have this fellow Hunt, ah, you know, ah, it's, he, he knows too damn much and he was involved, we happen to know that. And that it gets out that the whole, this is all involved in the Cuban thing, that it's a fiasco, and it's going to make the FBI, ah CIA look bad, it's going to make Hunt look bad, and it's likely to blow the whole, uh, Bay of Pigs thing which we think would be very unfortunate for CIA and for the country at this time, and for American foreign policy, and he just better tough it and lay it on them.\n\nHunt and fellow operative G. Gordon Liddy, along with the five burglars arrested at the Watergate, were indicted on federal charges three months later.\n\nHunt put pressure on the White House and the Committee to Re-Elect the President for cash payments to cover legal fees, family support, and expenses, for himself and his fellow burglars. Key Nixon figures, including Haldeman, Charles Colson, Herbert W. Kalmbach, John Mitchell, Fred LaRue, and John Dean eventually became entangled in the payoff schemes, and large amounts of money were passed to Hunt and his accomplices, to try to ensure their silence at the trial, by pleading guilty to avoid prosecutors' questions, and afterwards. Tenacious media, including \"The Washington Post\" and \"The New York Times\", eventually used investigative journalism to break open the payoff scheme, and published many articles that proved to be the beginning of the end for the cover-up. Prosecutors had to follow up once the media reported. Hunt also pressured Colson, Dean, and John Ehrlichman to ask Nixon for clemency in sentencing, and eventual presidential pardons for himself and his cronies; this eventually helped to implicate and snare those higher up.\n\nHunt's wife, Dorothy, was killed in the December 8, 1972 plane crash of United Airlines Flight 553 in Chicago. Congress, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) investigated the crash, and found it to be an accident caused by crew error. Over $10,000 in cash was found in Dorothy Hunt's handbag in the wreckage.\n\nHunt eventually spent 33 months in prison at Federal Correctional Complex, Allenwood and the low-security Federal Prison Camp at Eglin Air Force Base, Florida, on a conspiracy charge, arriving at the latter institution on April 25, 1975. While at Allenwood, he suffered a mild stroke. Hunt said he was bitter that he was sent to prison while Nixon was allowed to resign while avoiding prosecution for any crimes he may have committed; later, Nixon was fully pardoned in September 1974 by incoming President Gerald Ford. Hunt eventually applied for a presidential pardon but was turned down by Ronald Reagan in 1983.\n\nHunt supported the Warren Commission's conclusion that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone in the assassination of John F. Kennedy.\n\n \"The Dallas Morning News\", the \"Dallas Times Herald\", and the \"Fort Worth Star-Telegram\" photographed three transients under police escort near the Texas School Book Depository shortly after the assassination of Kennedy. The men later became known as the \"three tramps\". According to Vincent Bugliosi, allegations that these men were involved in a conspiracy originated from theorist Richard E. Sprague who compiled the photographs in 1966 and 1967, and subsequently turned them over to Jim Garrison during his investigation of Clay Shaw. Appearing before a nationwide audience on the December 31, 1968, episode of \"The Tonight Show\", Garrison held up a photo of the three and suggested they were involved in the assassination. Later, in 1974, assassination researchers Alan J. Weberman and Michael Canfield compared photographs of the men to people they believed to be suspects involved in a conspiracy and said that two of the men were Watergate burglars E. Howard Hunt and Frank Sturgis. Comedian and civil rights activist Dick Gregory helped bring national media attention to the allegations against Hunt and Sturgis in 1975 after obtaining the comparison photographs from Weberman and Canfield. Immediately after obtaining the photographs, Gregory held a press conference that received considerable coverage and his charges were reported in \"Rolling Stone\" and \"Newsweek\".\n\nThe Rockefeller Commission reported in 1975 that they investigated the allegation that Hunt and Sturgis, on behalf of the CIA, participated in the assassination of Kennedy. The final report of that commission stated that witnesses who testified that the \"derelicts\" bore a resemblance to Hunt or Sturgis \"were not shown to have any qualifications in photo identification beyond that possessed by an average layman\". Their report also stated that FBI Agent Lyndal L. Shaneyfelt, \"a nationally-recognized expert in photoidentification and photoanalysis\" with the FBI photographic laboratory, had concluded from photo comparison that none of the men was Hunt or Sturgis. In 1979, the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations reported that forensic anthropologists had again analyzed and compared the photographs of the \"tramps\" with those of Hunt and Sturgis, as well as with photographs of Thomas Vallee, Daniel Carswell, and Fred Lee Chrisman. According to the Committee, only Chrisman resembled any of the tramps, but determined that he was not to be in Dealey Plaza on the day of the assassination.\n\nIn 1992, journalist Mary La Fontaine discovered the November 22, 1963 arrest records that the Dallas Police Department had released in 1989, which named the three men as Gus W. Abrams, Harold Doyle, and John F. Gedney. According to the arrest reports, the three men were \"taken off a boxcar in the railroad yards right after President Kennedy was shot\", detained as \"investigative prisoners\", described as unemployed and passing through Dallas, then released four days later.\n\nIn 1973, Viking Press published Tad Szulc's book about Hunt's career titled \"Compulsive Spy\". Szulc, a former correspondent for \"The New York Times\", claimed unnamed CIA sources told him that Hunt, working with Rolando Cubela Secades, had a role in coordinating the assassination of Castro for an aborted second invasion of Cuba. In one passage, he also stated that Hunt was the acting chief of the CIA station in Mexico City in 1963 while Lee Harvey Oswald was there.\n\nThe Rockefeller Commission's June 1975 report stated that they investigated allegations that the CIA, including Hunt, may have had contact with Oswald or Jack Ruby. According to the Commission, one \"witness testified that E. Howard Hunt was Acting Chief of a CIA Station in Mexico City in 1963, implying that he \"could\" have had contact with Oswald when Oswald visited Mexico City in September 1963.\" Their report stated that there was \"no credible evidence\" of CIA involvement in the assassination and noted: \"At no time was [Hunt] ever the Chief, or Acting Chief, of a CIA Station in Mexico City.\n\nReleased in the Fall of 1975 after the Rockefeller Commission's report, Weberman and Canfield's book \"Coup d'Etat in America\" reiterated Szulc's allegation. In July 1976, Hunt filed a $2.5 million libel suit against the authors, as well as the book's publishers and editor. According to Ellis Rubin, Hunt's attorney who filed the suit in a Miami federal court, the book said that Hunt took part in the assassination of Kennedy and Martin Luther King Jr.\n\nAs part of his suit, Hunt filed a legal action in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia in September 1978 requesting that Szulc be cited for contempt if he refused to divulge his sources. Three months earlier, Szulc stated in a deposition that he refused to name his sources due to \"the professional confidentiality of sources\" and \"journalistic privilege\". Rubin stated that knowing the source of the allegation that Hunt was in Mexico City in 1963 was important because Szulc's passage \"is what everybody uses as an authority... he's cited in everything written on E. Howard Hunt\". He added that rumors that Hunt was involved in the Kennedy assassination might be put to end if Szulc's source was revealed. Stating that Hunt had not provided a sufficient reason to override Szulc's First Amendment rights to protect the confidentiality of his sources, United States District Judge Albert Vickers Bryan Jr. ruled in favor of Szulc.\n\nOn November 3, 1978, Hunt gave a security-classified deposition for the House Select Committee on Assassinations. He denied knowledge of any conspiracy to kill Kennedy. (The Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) released the deposition in February 1996.) Two newspaper articles published a few months before the deposition stated that a 1966 CIA memo linking Hunt to the assassination of President Kennedy had recently been provided to the HSCA. The first article, by Victor Marchetti – author of the book \"The CIA and the Cult of Intelligence\" (1974) – appeared in the Liberty Lobby newspaper \"The Spotlight\" on August 14, 1978. According to Marchetti, the memo said in essence, \"Some day we will have to explain Hunt's presence in Dallas on November 22, 1963.\" He also wrote that Hunt, Frank Sturgis, and Gerry Patrick Hemming would soon be implicated in a conspiracy to kill John F. Kennedy.\n\nThe second article, by Joseph J. Trento and Jacquie Powers, appeared six days later in the Sunday edition of \"The News Journal\", Wilmington, Delaware. It alleged that the purported memo was initialed by Richard Helms and James Angleton and showed that, shortly after Helms and Angleton were elevated to their highest positions in the CIA, they discussed the fact that Hunt had been in Dallas on the day of the assassination and that his presence there had to be kept secret. However, nobody has been able to produce this supposed memo, and the United States President's Commission on CIA Activities within the United States determined that Hunt had been in Washington, D.C. on the day of the assassination.\n\nHunt sued \"Liberty Lobby\" – but not the \"Sunday News Journal\" – for libel. \"Liberty Lobby\" stipulated, in this first trial, that the question of Hunt's alleged involvement in the assassination would not be contested. Hunt prevailed and was awarded $650,000 damages. In 1983, however, the case was overturned on appeal because of error in jury instructions. In a second trial, held in 1985, Mark Lane made an issue of Hunt's location on the day of the Kennedy assassination. Lane successfully defended Liberty Lobby by producing evidence suggesting that Hunt had been in Dallas. He used depositions from David Atlee Phillips, Richard Helms, G. Gordon Liddy, Stansfield Turner, and Marita Lorenz, plus a cross-examination of Hunt. On retrial, the jury rendered a verdict for Liberty Lobby. Lane claimed he convinced the jury that Hunt was a JFK assassination conspirator, but some of the jurors who were interviewed by the media said they disregarded the conspiracy theory and judged the case (according to the judge's jury instructions) on whether the article was published with \"reckless disregard for the truth.\" Lane outlined his theory about Hunt's and the CIA's role in Kennedy's murder in a 1991 book, \"Plausible Denial\".\n\nFormer KGB archivist Vasili Mitrokhin indicated in 1999 that Hunt was made part of a fabricated conspiracy theory disseminated by a Soviet \"active measures\" program designed to discredit the CIA and the United States. According to Mitrokhin, the KGB created a forged letter from Oswald to Hunt implying that the two were linked as conspirators, then forwarded copies of it to \"three of the most active conspiracy buffs\" in 1975. Mitrokhin indicated that the photocopies were accompanied by a fake cover letter from an anonymous source alleging that the original had been given to FBI Director Clarence M. Kelley and was apparently being suppressed.\n\nAfter Hunt's death, Howard St. John Hunt and David Hunt stated that their father had recorded several claims about himself and others being involved in a conspiracy to assassinate President John F. Kennedy. Notes and audio recordings were made. In the April 5, 2007, issue of \"Rolling Stone\", St. John Hunt detailed a number of individuals purported to be implicated by his father, including Lyndon B. Johnson, Cord Meyer, David Phillips, Frank Sturgis, David Morales, Antonio Veciana, William Harvey, and an assassin he termed \"French gunman grassy knoll\" who many presume was Lucien Sarti. The two sons alleged that their father cut the information from his memoirs to avoid possible perjury charges. According to Hunt's widow and other children, the two sons took advantage of Hunt's loss of lucidity by coaching and exploiting him for financial gain and furthermore falsified accounts of Hunt's supposed confession. The \"Los Angeles Times\" said they examined the materials offered by the sons to support the story and found them to be \"inconclusive\".\n\nHunt's memoir, \"American Spy: My Secret History in the CIA, Watergate, and Beyond\", was ghost-written by Greg Aunapu and published by John Wiley & Sons in March 2007. According to the Hunt Literary Estate, Hunt had intended to write an update to his 1974 autobiography \"Undercover\" and supplement this edition with post-9/11 reflections, but by the time he had embarked on the project, he was too ill to continue. This prompted John Wiley & Sons to search for and hire a ghost writer to write the book in its entirety. According to St. John Hunt, it was he who suggested to his father the idea of a memoir to reveal what he knew about the Kennedy assassination, but the Hunt Literary Estate refutes this as scurrilous. Scott Waxman was Hunt's literary agent on the book.\n\nThe foreword to \"American Spy\" was written by William F. Buckley Jr. According to Buckley, he was asked through an intermediary to write the introduction but declined after he found that the manuscript contained material \"that suggested transgressions of the highest order, including a hint that LBJ might have had a hand in the plot to assassinate President Kennedy.\" He stated that the work \"was clearly ghostwritten\", and eventually agreed to write an introduction focusing on his early friendship with Hunt after he received a revised manuscript \"with the loony grassy-knoll bits chiseled out\".\n\n\"Publishers Weekly\" called \"American Spy\" a \"breezy, unrepentant memoir\" and described it as a \"nostalgic memoir [that] breaks scant new ground in an already crowded field\". Tim Rutten of the \"Los Angeles Times\" said it was \"a bitter and self-pitying memoir\" and \"offers a rather standard account of how men of his generation became involved in intelligence work\". Referencing the book's title, Tim Weiner of \"The New York Times\" wrote: \"\"American Spy\" is presented as a 'secret history,' a double-barreled misrepresentation. There are no real secrets in this book. As history it is bunk.\" Weiner said that the author's examination of the Kennedy assassination was the low-point of the book, indicating that Hunt pretended to take various conspiracy theories, including the involvement of former President Johnson, seriously. He concluded his review describing it as a work \"in a long tradition of arrant nonsense\" and \"a book to shun\". Joseph C. Goulden of \"The Washington Times\" described it as a \"true mess of a book\" and dismissed Hunt's allegations against Johnson as \"fantasy\". Goulden summarized his review: \"I wish now that I had not read this pathetic book. Avoid it.\"\n\nWriting for \"The Christian Science Monitor\", Daniel Schorr said \"Hunt tells most of his Watergate venture fairly straight\". Contrasting this opinion, Politico's James Rosen described the chapters regarding Watergate as the \"[m]ost problematic\" and wrote: \"There are numerous factual errors – misspelled names, wrong dates, phantom participants in meetings, fictitious orders given – and the authors never substantively address, only pause occasionally to demean, the vast scholarly literature that has arisen in the last two decades to explain the central mystery of Watergate.\" Rosen's review was not entirely negative and he indicated that the book \"succeeds in taking readers beyond the caricatures and conspiracy theories to preserve the valuable memory of Hunt as he really was: passionate patriot; committed Cold Warrior; a lover of fine food, wine and women; incurable intriguer, wicked wit and superb storyteller.\" Dennis Lythgoe of \"Deseret News\" said \"[t]he writing style is awkward and often embarrassing\", but that \"the book as a whole is a fascinating look into the mind of one of the major Watergate figures\". In \"National Review\", Mark Riebling praised \"American Spy\" as \"the only autobiography I know of that convincingly conveys what it was like to be an American spy.\" \"The Boston Globe\" writer Martin Nolan called it \"admirable and important\" and said that Hunt \"presents a livelier, tabloid version of the 1970s\". According to Nolan: \"It is the best moment-by-moment depiction of the June 17, 1972, burglary of Democratic National Committee headquarters I have ever read.\"\n\nFollowing his release from prison in 1978, Hunt lived in Biscayne Park, Florida. He continued his literary career (publishing nearly twenty spy thrillers between 1980 and 2000) and raised two sons (Austin and Hollis) with his second wife, schoolteacher Laura Martin.\n\nOn January 23, 2007, he died of pneumonia in Miami, Florida. He is buried in Prospect Lawn Cemetery in his hometown of Hamburg, New York.\n\nA fictionalized account of Hunt's role in the Bay of Pigs operation appears in Norman Mailer's 1991 novel \"Harlot's Ghost\". He was portrayed by Ed Harris in the 1995 biopic \"Nixon\". Canadian journalist David Giammarco interviewed Hunt for the December 2000 issue of \"Cigar Aficionado\" magazine. He later wrote the foreword to Giammarco's book \"For Your Eyes Only: Behind the Scenes of the James Bond Films\" (ECW Press, 2002).\n\nNonfiction\n\nNovels published as Howard Hunt or E. Howard Hunt:\n\nAs Robert Dietrich:\n\nAs P. S. Donoghue:\n\nAs David St. John\n\nAs Gordon Davis:\n\nAs John Baxter:\n\n"}
{"id": "31667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31667", "title": "Fifteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution", "text": "Fifteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution\n\nThe Fifteenth Amendment (Amendment XV) to the United States Constitution prohibits the federal government and each state from denying a citizen the right to vote based on that citizen's \"race, color, or previous condition of servitude\". It was ratified on February 3, 1870, as the third and last of the Reconstruction Amendments.\n\nIn the final years of the American Civil War and the Reconstruction Era that followed, Congress repeatedly debated the rights of the millions of former black slaves. By 1869, amendments had been passed to abolish slavery and provide citizenship and equal protection under the laws, but the election of Ulysses S. Grant to the presidency in 1868 convinced a majority of Republicans that protecting the franchise of black male voters was important for the party's future. On February 26, 1869, after rejecting more sweeping versions of a suffrage amendment, Congress proposed a compromise amendment banning franchise restrictions on the basis of race, color, or previous servitude. After surviving a difficult ratification fight, the amendment was certified as duly ratified and part of the Constitution on March 30, 1870.\n\nUnited States Supreme Court decisions in the late nineteenth century interpreted the amendment narrowly. From 1890 to 1910, southern states adopted new state constitutions and enacted laws that raised barriers to voter registration. This resulted in most black voters and many poor white ones being disenfranchised by poll taxes and discriminatory literacy tests, among other barriers to voting, from which white male voters were exempted by grandfather clauses. A system of white primaries and violent intimidation by white groups also suppressed black participation.\n\nIn the twentieth century, the Court began to interpret the amendment more broadly, striking down grandfather clauses in \"Guinn v. United States\" (1915) and dismantling the white primary system in the \"Texas primary cases\" (1927–1953). Along with later measures such as the Twenty-fourth Amendment, which forbade poll taxes in federal elections, and \"Harper v. Virginia State Board of Elections\" (1966), which forbade poll taxes in state elections, these decisions significantly increased black participation in the American political system. To enforce the amendment, Congress enacted the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which provided federal oversight of elections in discriminatory jurisdictions, banned literacy tests and similar discriminatory devices, and created legal remedies for people affected by voting discrimination.\n\nThe amendment created a split within the women's suffrage movement over the amendment not prohibiting denying the women the right to vote on account of sex.\n\nIn the final years of the American Civil War and the Reconstruction Era that followed, Congress repeatedly debated the rights of black former slaves freed by the 1863 Emancipation Proclamation and the 1865 Thirteenth Amendment, the latter of which had formally abolished slavery. Following the passage of the Thirteenth Amendment by Congress, however, Republicans grew concerned over the increase it would create in the congressional representation of the Democratic-dominated Southern states. Because the full population of freed slaves would be now counted rather than the three-fifths mandated by the previous Three-Fifths Compromise, the Southern states would dramatically increase their power in the population-based House of Representatives. Republicans hoped to offset this advantage by attracting and protecting votes of the newly enfranchised black population.\n\nIn 1865, Congress passed what would become the Civil Rights Act of 1866, guaranteeing citizenship without regard to race, color, or previous condition of slavery or involuntary servitude. The bill also guaranteed equal benefits and access to the law, a direct assault on the Black Codes passed by many post-war Southern states. The Black Codes attempted to return ex-slaves to something like their former condition by, among other things, restricting their movement, forcing them to enter into year-long labor contracts, prohibiting them from owning firearms, and by preventing them from suing or testifying in court. Although strongly urged by moderates in Congress to sign the bill, President Johnson vetoed it on March 27, 1866. In his veto message, he objected to the measure because it conferred citizenship on the freedmen at a time when 11 out of 36 states were unrepresented in the Congress, and that it discriminated in favor of African Americans and against whites. Three weeks later, Johnson's veto was overridden and the measure became law. This was the first time in American history that Congress was able to muster the votes necessary to override a presidential veto. Despite this victory, even some Republicans who had supported the goals of the Civil Rights Act began to doubt that Congress possessed the constitutional power to turn those goals into laws. The experience encouraged both radical and moderate Republicans to seek Constitutional guarantees for black rights, rather than relying on temporary political majorities.\n\nOn June 18, 1866, Congress adopted the Fourteenth Amendment, which guaranteed citizenship and equal protection under the laws regardless of race, and sent it to the states for ratification. After a bitter struggle that included attempted rescissions of ratification by two states, the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted on July 28, 1868.\n\nSection 2 of the Fourteenth Amendment punished, by reduced representation in the House of Representatives, any state that disenfranchised any male citizens over 21 years of age. By failing to adopt a harsher penalty, this signaled to the states that they still possessed the right to deny ballot access based on race. Northern states were generally as averse to granting voting rights to blacks as Southern states. In the year of its ratification, only eight Northern states allowed Blacks to vote. In the South, Blacks were able to vote in many areas, but only through the intervention of the occupying Union Army. Congress had granted suffrage to Blacks in the territories by passing the Territorial Suffrage Act in 1867.\n\nAnticipating an increase in Democratic membership in the following Congress, Republicans used the lame-duck session of the 40th United States Congress to pass an amendment protecting black suffrage. Representative John Bingham, the primary author of the Fourteenth Amendment, pushed for a wide-ranging ban on suffrage limitations, but a broader proposal banning voter restriction on the basis of \"race, color, nativity, property, education, or religious beliefs\" was rejected. A proposal to specifically ban literacy tests was also rejected. Some Representatives from the North, where nativism was a major force, wished to preserve restrictions denying the franchise to foreign-born citizens, as did Representatives from the West, where ethnic Chinese were banned from voting. Both Southern and Northern Republicans also wanted to continue to deny the vote temporarily to Southerners disfranchised for support of the Confederacy, and they were concerned that a sweeping endorsement of suffrage would enfranchise this group.\n\nA House and Senate conference committee proposed the amendment's final text, which banned voter restriction only on the basis of \"race, color, or previous condition of servitude\". To attract the broadest possible base of support, the amendment made no mention of poll taxes or other measures to block voting, and did not guarantee the right of blacks to hold office. This compromise proposal was approved by the House on February 25, 1869, and the Senate the following day.\n\nThe vote in the House was 144 to 44, with 35 not voting. The House vote was almost entirely along party lines, with no Democrats supporting the bill and only 3 Republicans voting against it, some because they thought the amendment did not go far enough in its protections. The House of Representatives passed the amendment with 143 Republican and 1 Conservative Republican votes of \"Yes\"; 39 Democrat, 3 Republican, 1 Independent Republican and 1 Conservative votes of \"No\"; 26 Republican, 8 Democrat and 1 Independent Republican not voting. The final vote in the Senate was 39 to 13, with 14 not voting. The Senate passed the amendment with a vote of 39 Republican votes of \"Yea\", 8 Democrat and 5 Republican votes of \"Nay\"; 13 Republican and 1 Democrat not voting. Some Radical Republicans, such as Massachusetts Senator Charles Sumner, abstained from voting because the amendment did not prohibit literacy tests and poll taxes. Following congressional approval the proposed amendment was then sent by Secretary of State William Henry Seward to the states for ratification or rejection.\n\nThough many of the original proposals for the amendment had been moderated by negotiations in committee, the final draft nonetheless faced significant hurdles in being ratified by three-fourths of the states. Historian William Gillette wrote of the process, \"it was hard going and the outcome was uncertain until the very end.\"\n\nOne source of opposition to the proposed amendment was the women's suffrage movement, which before and during the Civil War had made common cause with the abolitionist movement. However, with the passage of the Fourteenth Amendment, which had explicitly protected only male citizens in its second section, activists found the civil rights of women divorced from those of blacks. Matters came to a head with the proposal of the Fifteenth Amendment, which barred race discrimination but not sex discrimination in voter laws. After an acrimonious debate, the American Equal Rights Association, the nation's leading suffragist group, split into two rival organizations: the National Woman Suffrage Association of Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who opposed the amendment, and the American Woman Suffrage Association of Lucy Stone and Henry Browne Blackwell, who supported it. The two groups remained divided until the 1890s.\nNevada was the first state to ratify the amendment, on March 1, 1869. The New England states and most Midwest states also ratified the amendment soon after its proposal. Southern states still controlled by Radical reconstruction governments, such as North Carolina, also swiftly ratified. Newly elected President Ulysses S. Grant strongly endorsed the amendment, calling it \"a measure of grander importance than any other one act of the kind from the foundation of our free government to the present day.\" He privately asked Nebraska's governor to call a special legislative session to speed the process, securing the state's ratification. In April and December 1869, Congress passed Reconstruction bills mandating that Virginia, Mississippi, Texas and Georgia ratify the amendment as a precondition to regaining congressional representation; all four states did so. The struggle for ratification was particularly close in Indiana and Ohio, which voted to ratify in May 1869 and January 1870, respectively. New York, which had ratified on April 14, 1869, tried to revoke its ratification on January 5, 1870. However, in February 1870, Georgia, Iowa, Nebraska, and Texas ratified the amendment, bringing the total ratifying states to twenty-nine—one more than the required twenty-eight ratifications from the thirty-seven states, and forestalling any court challenge to New York's resolution to withdraw its consent.\n\nThe first twenty-eight states to ratify the Fifteenth Amendment were:\n\n\nSecretary of State Hamilton Fish certified the amendment on March 30, 1870, also including the ratifications of:\n\nThe remaining seven states all subsequently ratified the amendment:\n\nThe amendment's adoption was met with widespread celebrations in black communities and abolitionist societies; many of the latter disbanded, feeling that black rights had been secured and their work was complete. President Grant said of the amendment that it \"completes the greatest civil change and constitutes the most important event that has occurred since the nation came to life\". Many Republicans felt that with the amendment's passage, black Americans no longer needed federal protection; congressman and future president James A. Garfield stated that the amendment's passage \"confers upon the African race the care of its own destiny. It places their fortunes in their own hands.\" Congressman John R. Lynch later wrote that ratification of those two amendments made Reconstruction a success.\n\nThe first known black voter after the amendment's adoption was Thomas Mundy Peterson, who cast his ballot on March 31, 1870, in a Perth Amboy, New Jersey referendum election adopting a revised city charter.\n\nIn \"United States v. Reese\" (1876), the first U.S. Supreme Court decision interpreting the Fifteenth Amendment, the Court interpreted the amendment narrowly, upholding ostensibly race-neutral limitations on suffrage including poll taxes, literacy tests, and a grandfather clause that exempted citizens from other voting requirements if their grandfathers had been registered voters, a condition only white men could generally meet. The Court also stated that the amendment does not confer the right of suffrage, but it invests citizens of the United States with the right of exemption from discrimination in the exercise of the elective franchise on account of their race, color, or previous condition of servitude, and empowers Congress to enforce that right by \"appropriate legislation\". The Court wrote:\n\nWhite supremacists, such as the Ku Klux Klan (KKK), used paramilitary violence to prevent blacks from voting. A number of blacks were killed at the Colfax massacre of 1873 while attempting to defend their right to vote. The Enforcement Acts were passed by Congress in 1870–1871 to authorize federal prosecution of the KKK and others who violated the amendment. However, as Reconstruction neared its end and federal troops withdrew, prosecutions under the Enforcement Acts dropped significantly. In \"United States v. Cruikshank\" (1876), the Supreme Court ruled that the federal government did not have the authority to prosecute the perpetrators of the Colfax massacre because they were not state actors.\nCongress further weakened the acts in 1894 by removing a provision against conspiracy. In 1877, Republican Rutherford B. Hayes was elected president after a highly contested election, receiving support from three Southern states in exchange for a pledge to allow white Democratic governments to rule without federal interference. As president, he refused to enforce federal civil rights protections, allowing states to begin to implement racially discriminatory Jim Crow laws. A Federal Elections Bill was successfully filibustered in the Senate.\n\nFrom 1890 to 1910, poll taxes and literacy tests were instituted across the South, effectively disenfranchising the great majority of black men. White male-only primary elections also served to reduce the influence of black men in the political system. Along with increasing legal obstacles, blacks were excluded from the political system by threats of violent reprisals by whites in the form of lynch mobs and terrorist attacks by the Ku Klux Klan. Some Democrats even advocated a repeal of the amendment, such as William Bourke Cockran of New York.\n\nIn the 20th century, the Court began to read the Fifteenth Amendment more broadly. In \"Guinn v. United States\" (1915), a unanimous Court struck down an Oklahoma grandfather clause that effectively exempted white voters from a literacy test, finding it to be discriminatory. The Court ruled in the related case \"Myers v. Anderson\" (1915), that the officials who enforced such a clause were liable for civil damages.\n\nThe Court addressed the white primary system in a series of decisions later known as the \"Texas primary cases\". In \"Nixon v. Herndon\" (1927), Nixon sued for damages under federal civil rights laws after being denied a ballot in a Democratic party primary election on the basis of race. The Court found in his favor on the basis of the Fourteenth Amendment, which guarantees equal protection under the law, while not discussing his Fifteenth Amendment claim. After Texas amended its statute to allow the political party's state executive committee to set voting qualifications, Nixon sued again; in \"Nixon v. Condon\" (1932), the Court again found in his favor on the basis of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nFollowing \"Nixon\", the Democratic Party's state convention instituted a rule that only whites could vote in its primary elections; the Court unanimously upheld this rule as constitutional in \"Grovey v. Townsend\" (1935), distinguishing the discrimination by a private organization from that of the state in the previous primary cases. However, in \"United States v. Classic\" (1941), the Court ruled that primary elections were an essential part of the electoral process, undermining the reasoning in \"Grovey\". Based on \"Classic\", the Court in \"Smith v. Allwright\" (1944), overruled \"Grovey\", ruling that denying non-white voters a ballot in primary elections was a violation of the Fifteenth Amendment. In the last of the Texas primary cases, \"Terry v. Adams\" (1953), the Court ruled that black plaintiffs were entitled to damages from a group that organized whites-only pre-primary elections with the assistance of Democratic party officials.\nThe Court also used the amendment to strike down a gerrymander in \"Gomillion v. Lightfoot\" (1960). The decision found that the redrawing of city limits by Tuskegee, Alabama officials to exclude the mostly black area around the Tuskegee Institute discriminated on the basis of race. The Court later relied on this decision in \"Rice v. Cayetano\" (2000), which struck down ancestry-based voting in elections for the Office of Hawaiian Affairs; the ruling held that the elections violated the Fifteenth Amendment by using \"ancestry as a racial definition and for a racial purpose\".\n\nAfter judicial enforcement of the Fifteenth Amendment ended grandfather clauses, white primaries, and other discriminatory tactics, Southern black voter registration gradually increased, rising from five percent in 1940 to twenty-eight percent in 1960. Although the Fifteenth Amendment was never interpreted to prohibit poll taxes, in 1962 the Twenty-fourth Amendment was adopted banning poll taxes in federal elections, and in 1966 the Supreme Court ruled in \"Harper v. Virginia State Board of Elections\" (1966) that state poll taxes violate the Fourteenth Amendment's Equal Protection Clause.\n\nCongress used its authority pursuant to Section 2 of the Fifteenth Amendment to pass the Voting Rights Act of 1965, achieving further racial equality in voting. Sections 4 and 5 of the Voting Rights Act required states and local governments with histories of racial discrimination in voting to submit all changes to their voting laws or practices to the federal government for approval before they could take effect, a process called \"preclearance.\" By 1976, sixty-three percent of Southern blacks were registered to vote, a figure only five percent less than that for Southern whites.\n\nThe Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of Sections 4 and 5 in \"South Carolina v. Katzenbach\" (1966). However, in \"Shelby County v. Holder\" (2013), the Supreme Court ruled that Section 4(b) of the Voting Rights Act, which established the coverage formula that determined which jurisdictions were subject to preclearance, was no longer constitutional and exceeded Congress's enforcement authority under Section 2 of the Fifteenth Amendment. The Court declared that the Fifteenth Amendment \"commands that the right to vote shall not be denied or abridged on account of race or color, and it gives Congress the power to enforce that command. The Amendment is not designed to punish for the past; its purpose is to ensure a better future.\" According to the Court, \"Regardless of how to look at the record no one can fairly say that it shows anything approaching the 'pervasive,' 'flagrant,' 'widespread,' and 'rampant' discrimination that faced Congress in 1965, and that clearly distinguished the covered jurisdictions from the rest of the nation.\" In dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg wrote, \"Throwing out preclearance when it has worked and is continuing to work to stop discriminatory changes is like throwing away your umbrella in a rainstorm because you are not getting wet.\" While the preclearance provision itself was not struck down, it will continue to be inoperable unless Congress passes a new coverage formula.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1815681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1815681", "title": "Flying Legends", "text": "Flying Legends\n\nThe Flying Legends is a two-day airshow, held at Duxford Aerodrome in Cambridgeshire, England at the beginning of July every year.\n\nThe airshow features only warbird and vintage aircraft, such as the Supermarine Spitfire, Hawker Hurricane, North American P-51 Mustang and resident Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress \"Sally B\". It is run by The Fighter Collection, which is based at Duxford.\n\n"}
{"id": "50669033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50669033", "title": "Fundación Mujeres en Igualdad", "text": "Fundación Mujeres en Igualdad\n\nThe Fundación Mujeres en Igualdad (MEI), known in English as the Women in Equality Foundation, is an Argentine NGO created in March 1990. It has been awarded consultative status with United Nations ECOSOC. The foundation sets out to combat gender based violence and discrimination against women by promoting welfare, participation and empowerment in the political, economic, social and cultural spheres. From its inception Women in Equality promoted the use of the new technologies intensively, being the first women´s NGO in Argentina to have a website. Through such initiatives it has networked and created partnerships with NGOs and with the women's movement both at the national and international levels.\n\nMujeres en Igualdad Foundation has its offices in Florida, Province of Buenos Aires. The founder of Women in Equality was Zita Montes de Oca, with Monique Thiteux- Altschul as its executive director.\n\n\n\nMujeres en Igualdad began its “About Representatives and Represented” Project breakfasts in 1993, and has since held 176 breakfasts, in the City of Buenos Aires and in numerous provinces. An average of 70 sundry participants attend each month, including women senators, deputees ad legislators, judges, lawyers, functionaries, journalists, academics, union representatives, members of NGOs and international agencies, embassies, aboriginal people´s organizations, politicians, and grass roots organizations. These monthly meetings are meant to make town halls debate women's issues from the political agenda as well as special topics that allow the women present to pool their thoughts and coordinate their work.\n\nMujeres en Igualdad Foundation has organized three forums and prepares its fourth Forum to be held in October 2016 in order to analyze and draft public policies and gendered budgets to counteract actions used by corruption to threaten women´s human rights. The third Forum was held in 2008 in the School of Law in the University Buenos Aires, within the framework of Women for Equality and Transparency (UNIFEM – UNDEF, United Nations), in order to debate and share experiences fostering transparency.\n\n"}
{"id": "22652626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22652626", "title": "Global financial crisis in December 2008", "text": "Global financial crisis in December 2008\n\nOn December 1, the National Bureau of Economic Research officially declared that the U.S. economy had entered recession in December 2007, a full year earlier. (See late 2000s recession)\n\nThe Labor Department said that the US lost 533,000 jobs in November 2008, the biggest monthly loss since 1974. This raised the unemployment rate from 6.5% to 6.7%.\n\nOn December 9, the Bank of Canada lowered its key interest rate by 0.75% to 1.5%, the lowest it had been since 1958; at the same time the Bank officially announced that Canada's economy was in recession. This move came after the news that Canada lost 70,600 jobs in the month of November, the most since 1982. The official Bank of Canada press release stated that \"[the] outlook for the world economy has deteriorated significantly and the global recession will be broader and deeper than previously anticipated.\"\n\nOn December 11, the FBI announced the arrest of Bernard Madoff in a Ponzi scheme which totaled $50 billion by Madoff's own estimate, and which was soon found to affect banks, individuals, and charities in the U.S. and Europe. \n\nAfter 5 positive days, on December 1 the S&P 500 fell 80 points to 816, down 9%. Financial stocks in the S&P 500 fell 17%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at 8149 with a drop of 679 points 7.7% down. Oil fell below $50 a barrel in New York Trading. The General Accounting Office released a report that claims that the Oversight of the Troubled Assets Relief Program requires additional actions to ensure \"integrity, accountability, and transparency\". (\"Washington Post\") (bloomberg.com) (\"Wall Street Journal\") (CNN Money)\n\nOn December 22, US industry leaders asked the Federal Reserve for assistance un-freezing the commercial real estate market, which has not securitized any loans in the last six months of 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "57757701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57757701", "title": "Graham Fire", "text": "Graham Fire\n\nThe Graham Fire was a wildfire four miles south of the Metolius River near Culver, Oregon. The fire was caused by a lightning strike and was first reported on June 21, 2018. The fire is one of 70 started over a two day period of dry conditions and heavy winds in Central Oregon. The fire was contained on June . \n\nThe Graham Fire was reported on the afternoon of June 21, 2018 south of the Metolius River near Culver, Oregon. The fire was started by a lightning strike and was fueled by brush, timber and grass, primarily burning private lands. By Saturday, June 23, the fire had reached , with fire crews focusing on burnout efforts to contain the fire. Two homes and five out buildings were destroyed. \n\nThe Graham Fire was contained on June 27 and burned a total of .\n\nThe Graham Fire burned private lands protected by the Oregon Department of Forestry and Lake Chinook Fire and Rescue, as well as public lands owned by the Bureau of Land Management. In total, two homes and five outbuildings were destroyed.\n\nThe subdivision of Three Rivers was evacuated on June 21 due to extreme fire conditions threatening homes.\n"}
{"id": "35141481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35141481", "title": "Hartera", "text": "Hartera\n\nHartera is an annual electronica music festival held in Rijeka, Croatia. The name derives from the festivals location, an old paper factory (which was one of the largest in Europe) that functioned for 150 years before shutting down. One of the original purposes of the Hartera Festival was to preserve the old building by converting it into a public gathering for cultural purposes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18874485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18874485", "title": "Illegal entry", "text": "Illegal entry\n\nIllegal entry is the act of foreign nationals arriving in or crossing the borders into a country in violation of its immigration law.\n\nMigrants from nations that do not have automatic visa agreements, or who would not otherwise qualify for a visa, often cross the borders illegally in some areas like the United States–Mexico border, the Mona Channel between the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico, the Strait of Gibraltar, Fuerteventura, and the Strait of Otranto. These methods are often dangerous: migrants have been known to suffocate in shipping containers, boxcars and trucks, sink in shipwrecks caused by unseaworthy vessels or die of dehydration or exposure during long walks without water.\n\nHuman smuggling is the practice of intermediaries aiding undocumented migrants in crossing international borders for financial gain, often in large groups. Human smuggling differs from, but is sometimes associated with, human trafficking. A human smuggler will facilitate illegal entry into a country for a fee, but on arrival at their destination, the smuggled person is usually free. Trafficking involves a process of using physical force, fraud, or deception to obtain and transport people, usually for the purpose of forced labor or prostitution at the destination.\n\nPresently, India is constructing a fence along the border to restrict illegal traffic from Bangladesh. The Indo-Bangladeshi barrier is long. The stated aim of the fence is to stop infiltration of terrorists, prevent smuggling, and to bring a close to illegal immigration from Bangladesh.\n\nIn Australia, mandatory immigration detention was revived in 1992 for all foreigners who arrive in Australia without a visa. That only \"border applicants\" are subject to detention has sparked criticism, as it is claimed to unfairly discriminate against certain migrants.\n\nSuspected Irregular Entry Vessel was the name used by the Australian Defence Force or Australian Coastwatch for maritime vessels which were suspected to be attempting to reach Australia without authorisation. In practice, these boats were often carrying asylum seekers who had departed from Indonesia on the final leg of a journey which started in countries such as Iraq and Afghanistan after paying people smugglers.\n\nDuring 1933-1948, the British government limited Jewish immigration to Palestine with quotas, and following the rise of Nazism to power in Germany, illegal immigration to Palestine commenced. The illegal immigration was known as Aliyah Bet (\"secondary immigration\"), or \"Ha'apalah\", and was organized by the Mossad Le'aliyah Bet, as well as by the Irgun. Immigration was done mainly by sea, and to a lesser extent overland through Iraq and Syria. Beginning in 1939 Jewish immigration was further restricted, limiting it to 75,000 individuals for a period of five years after which immigration was to end completely. During World War II and the years that followed until independence, \"Aliyah Bet\" became the main form of Jewish immigration to Palestine. Despite British efforts to curb the illegal immigration, during the 14 years of its operation, 110,000 Jews immigrated to Palestine.\n\nTurkey, which is a transit point for unauthorized migrants trying to reach Europe, has been accused of being unable to secure its borders with Greece. Since 1996, 40 unauthorized migrants have been killed by mines, after entering Greek territory in Evros. In 2001, about 800 illegal immigrants were rescued by the Greek coastguards after a fire broke out on board the Turkish-flagged \"Brelner\", believed to have set sail from the Turkish port of İzmir, probably en route to Italy. Once in July 2004 and a second time in May 2006, Hellenic Coast Guard ships were caught on film cruising as near as a few hundred meters off the Turkish coast and abandoning clandestines to the sea. This practice resulted in the drowning of six people between Chios and Karaburun on 26 September 2006 while three others disappeared and 31 were saved by Turkish gendarmes and fishermen. Three of the drowned were Tunisians, one was Algerian, one Palestinian and the other Iraqi. The three disappeared were also Tunisians.\n\nAs a result of bilateral negotiations, a readmission agreement was signed between Turkey and Greece in November 2001 and went into effect in April 2002. For third country nationals, this protocol gives the parties 14 days to inform each other of the number of persons to be returned after the date of illegal entry. For nationals of the two countries the authorities can make use of simplified procedures. But the strict application of the agreement is reported to have retrograded as of 2003.\n\nPeople's Republic of China is building a security barrier along its border with North Korea to prevent defectors or refugees from North Korea from entering the country illegally.\n\nOn May 13, 2004, the People's Republic of China sentenced Yang Jianli, a Chinese dissident with U.S. residency, to five years in prison for espionage and illegal entry.\n\nThe illegal entry of Vietnamese refugees was a concern for the Hong Kong government for 25 years. The issue was first resolved in 2000. Between 1975 and 1999, 143,700 Vietnamese refugees were resettled in other countries and more than 67,000 Vietnamese migrants were repatriated.\n\nOn 23 March 2007, 15 British Royal Navy personnel, from HMS \"Cornwall\", were surrounded by the Navy of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards and were subsequently detained off the Iraq-Iran coast. Iran's director general for Western European affairs, Ibrahim Rahimpour, said that the British boats had made \"illegal entry\" into Iranian territorial waters and that the personnel \"were arrested by border guards for investigation and questioning\". On 24 March, the Iranian Fars News Agency said the navigational equipment seized on the British boats shows the sailors were aware that they were operating in Iranian waters. On the same day, General Ali Reza Afshar, a top military official, said the sailors had confessed to illegal entry into Iran's waters.\n\nOn January 25, 2008, Egyptian security forces blocked almost all illegal entry points along the border with Gaza to try to stem the flow of Palestinians wanting to leave. Egyptian forces in riot gear erected barbed wire and chain-link fences along the border to prevent more Palestinians from crossing.\n\nOn June 5, 2006, 231 Hmong refugees fleeing Laos were detained by police in Amphoe Khao Kho, Phetchabun Province for illegal entry into Thailand. The Hmong were seeking asylum at the province's Ban Huay Nam Khao, where about 6,500 ethnic Hmong are being sheltered, but the Thai military refused to allow them to stay. Most of the Hmong claim they fought against the communists in the Secret War.\n\nMost unlawful migrants to Malaysia are from nearby Southeast Asian countries such as Indonesia particularly on Indonesia–Malaysia border via maritime boundary of Strait of Malacca and land border on the island of Borneo. The land border on Malaysia–Thailand mostly used by Bangladeshi & Rakhine people of Myanmar. The Malaysia–Philippines border normally used by Mindanao people via Celebes Sea.\n\nThere are an estimated half a million illegal entries into the United States each year. Six to seven million people reside in the United States after having evaded the Immigration Inspectors or Border Patrol.\n\nThe illegal entry of non-nationals into the United States is a misdemeanor according to the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, which prohibits non-nationals from entering or attempting to enter the United States at any time or place which has not been designated by an immigration officer, and also prohibits non-nationals from eluding inspection by immigration officers.\n\nThe U.S. Customs and Border Protection is responsible for apprehending individuals attempting to enter the United States illegally. The United States Border Patrol is its mobile uniformed law enforcement arm, responsible for deterrence, detection and apprehension of those who enter the United States without authorization from the government or outside the designated ports of entry.\n\nThe unfenced, rural mountainous and desert border between Arizona and Mexico has become a major entrance area for unlawful migration to the United States, due in part to the increased difficulty of crossing illegally into California. Each year \nthere are several hundred migrant deaths along the Mexico-U.S. border. Often, migrants employ people smugglers (known as \"coyotes\") who promise a safe passage into the United States and are paid up to 3 to 4 thousand for passages that include long walking distances or 7 to 14 thousand for an easier travel per person they assist in crossing the border. The difficulty and expense of the journey has prompted many migrant workers to stay in the United States longer or indefinitely.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Border Patrol, there were 1,954 migrant deaths along the Mexico-U.S. border between 1998 and 2004. In 1993, 283 Chinese migrants attempted illegal entry into the United \nStates via a sea vessel; ten of them arrived dead. Reference: Bill Ward\n\nA recent study into irregular immigration to the United Kingdom states that \"most irregular migrants have committed administrative offences rather than a serious crime\". In 2004, illegal entry action was initiated against 36,550 migrants; it was estimated that more migrants overstay their visa than enter clandestinely, hence considered unlikely that there are large numbers of people crossing UK borders without permission.\n\nMany of the routes for clandestine entry are very dangerous. There were 72 documented deaths that are thought to have occurred while entering UK between 1993 and 2002. The most common cause of death while entering the UK (61 of the deaths recorded) was suffocation in a lorry while being smuggled into the UK by ferry; Others drowned in the English Channel, froze to death as stowaways on an aeroplane and were crushed by trains in the Channel Tunnel.\n\n"}
{"id": "51774865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51774865", "title": "International Anti-Corruption Court", "text": "International Anti-Corruption Court\n\nAn International Anti-Corruption Court (IACC) is a proposal for the establishment of a court similar to the International Criminal Court or as part of it, for the criminal enforcement of laws prohibiting grand corruption.\n\nThe idea for an International Anti-Corruption Court was first put forward by Judge Mark L. Wolf at the 2012 St. Petersburg International Legal Forum and subsequently presented at the 2014 World Forum on Governance. Wolf outlined the proposal in a paper for the Brookings Institution in July 2014, as well as in a Washington Post op-ed on 22 July 2014.\n\nUnder the proposed Court, states could voluntarily accede to the IACC, granting it jurisdiction over investigating and prosecuting domestic acts of grand corruption. The IACC would be staffed by top prosecutors and impartial judges selected by the Court’s state parties. Crucially, the IACC would operate under the principle of “complementarity,” meaning it would only conduct prosecutions where domestic courts are unwilling or unable. In this way, the IACC would act as incentive for domestic governments to establish adequate anti-corruption processes while ensuring that corrupt leaders are held accountable where the effective processes do not yet exist. In these respects, the IACC is similar to, but distinct from, the International Criminal Court (ICC), and may be designed in a way that draws on the strengths of the ICC model while avoiding some of its weaknesses.\n\nOther elements of Wolf's proposal include:\n\n\nWolf argues that an IACC would have \"the potential to erode the widespread culture of impunity, contribute to creating conditions conducive to the democratic election of honest officials in countries which have long histories of grand corruption, and honor the courageous efforts of the many people, particularly young people, who are increasingly exposing and opposing corruption at great personal peril.\" Wolf attributes this \"culture of impunity\" to an \"unwillingness of leaders to permit the honest and able investigation of their friends, families, and, indeed, themselves.\" The IACC proposal is designed to address this, noting that existing international efforts to combat grand corruption have not been adequate or effective.\n\nOn 13 November 2014, in oral testimony before a Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission Briefing, Arvind Ganesan, Business and Human Rights Director at Human Rights Watch said that a \"key step\" in fighting grand corruption is to \"Support efforts to examine the legal, administrative, and other procedural steps needed to create an International Anti-Corruption Court.\" Before highlighting actions the US Government could take to build momentum for the court, Ganesan also said, \"Judge Mark Wolf's proposal for an international anti-corruption court is something Human Rights Watch believes could be a valuable step forward, but there are challenges ahead. The promise of the court has to be tempered with the technical and legal hurdles that would have to be overcome to make such a court a reality. It would need to have jurisdiction, investigative capacity, and operate in a way that still protects the rights of the accused. More challenging are the political realities, notwithstanding some of the technical challenges in starting such a court. Most notably, many governments, especially those ruled by kleptocrats, will not easily agree to a court that holds them accountable for plundering public funds.\"\n\nOn 8 October 2015, the Global Organization of Parliamentarians Against Corruption (GOPAC) issued a statement - the Yogyakarta Declaration - supporting the establishment of an International Anti-Corruption Court following the Sixth Global Conference of Parliamentarians Against Corruption which was held in Yogyakarta, Indonesia. Specifically, the Declaration stated: \"6. Recommend that the United Nations consider the establishment of a new UNCAC protocol to establish an international court on corruption for the prosecution of perpetrators and collaborators of grand corruption\".\n\nIn a blog posted on December 19, 2016 titled \"The 1MDB Scandal Should Be Address by an International Criminal Tribunal - An Important First in the Fight Against Grand Corruption,\" Global Witness endorsed the idea of an International Anti-Corruption Court, \"imagine the effect of an ad hoc international tribunal with jurisdiction over a specific corruption case: the drafters of its statute, and the jurisprudence it would generate, would help to shape the law of grand corruption for decades to come.\"\n\nRichard Goldstone, former South African judge and chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, is a strong supporter of the International Anti-Corruption Court. He is a board member of Integrity Initiatives International.\n\nOther commentators and analysts to support the idea of establishing an international anti-corruption court include John Githongo and Robert Rotberg.\n\nIntegrity Initiatives International (III) (pronounced \"triple I\") is a Boston-based international NGO founded in 2016 with the stated aim of combatting grand corruption by:\nUS District Judge Mark L. Wolf is the chair of the III board.\n\nIn April 2014, Mark L. Wolf attended the annual World Forum on Governance in Prague, where he advocated for the International Anti-Corruption Court.\n\nOn November 13, 2015, the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission held a briefing titled \"An International Anti-Corruption Court (IACC) to Mitigate Grand Corruption and Human Rights Abuses.\" At this briefing, panelists including Wolf, Arvind Ganesan, and Ruth Wedgwood discussed the \"linkage between grand corruption and human rights, the challenges to combating grand corruption, the mission of an IACC, including how it could complement and collaborate with national systems, and the challenges to the creation of a court with a real ability to punish and deter corrupt leaders.\" On June 16, 2016 Judge Wolf spoke at a hearing at the Lantos Commission titled \"Corruption and Human Rights: Improving Accountability,\" at which participants discussed and examined \"what has been done to date in the effort to combat corruption at the international level.\"\n\nWolf teaches a course at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government titled \"Combatting Corruption Internationally.\" The course examines \"the causes and consequences of grand corruption -- the abuse of public office for personal profit by a nation's leaders -- and means of combatting it.\"\n\nIn April 2015, Wolf gave a talk at the Brandies University International Center for Ethics, Justice and Public Life titled \"An International Court to Fight Corruption: A Federal Judge Makes the Case.\"\n\nWolf attended the 2016 International Anti-Corruption Summit in London. His Leaders' Statement was titled \"An International Anti-Corruption Court for Grand Corruption.\n\nIn February 2016, Wolf gave the inaugural lecture of the Woodrow Wilson Center's Rule of Law Initiative, in which he focused on the potential for an International Anti-Corruption Court to combat grand corruption more effectively. In April 2016 the Rule of Law Initiative (in collaboration with Transparency International and Integrity Initiatives International) previewed the 2016 London Anti-Corruption Summit, during which Judge Wolf contributed to presentations.\n\nIn February of 2017, the International Institutions and Global Governance program at the Council on Foreign Relations held a meeting of the US and the Future of Global Governance Round-Table Series, at which Wolf discussed the International Anti-Corruption court.\n\nIn March of 2017, Wolf spoke on a panel at the Aspen Institute titled \"Combatting Kleptocracy: Is an International Anti-Corruption Court the Answer?\"\n\nIn March 2015, Wolf attended a roundtable discussion on the proposal for an International Anti-Corruption Court at Columbia University's Center on Global Economic Governance.\n\nIn April 2017, Wolf led a Lunch Seminar at the Harvard University Carr Center for Human Rights titled \"Grand Corruption, Violations of Human Rights, and the Need for an International Anti-Corruption Court.\"\n\nIn April 2017, Wolf was one of the keynote speakers in a round-table discussion titled \"Strengths and Weaknesses of Legal Mechanisms to Combat Kleptocracy,\" sponsored by the National Endowment for Democracy's International Forum for Democratic Studies. Also on this day, Judge Wolf served as a discussant at a round table discussion led by Judge Claudia Escobar titled \"Judicial Independence as a Tool to Fight Corruption: Lessons from Guatemala.\" In a round-table discussion titled \"Legal Mechanisms to Combat Kleptocracy,\" also sponsored by the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the NED. In June 2017 Judge Wolf was interviewed by Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the NED regarding III’s proposal for the creation of an International Anti-Corruption Court as a tool in the fight against global kleptocracy.\n\nFrom June 25–27, 2017 contributors to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences quarterly publication Daedalus met to discuss their contributions to the publication's \"Anti-Corruption\" issue. On June 25, Wolf spoke on a panel titled, 'Challenging Corrupt Practices: America, Brazil, Globally' alongside Zephyr Teachout and Sergio Fernando Moro. Judge Wolf discussed current efforts to create an International Anti-Corruption Court.\n\nIn a report published in October 2014 for The Heritage Foundation entitled \"Why the U.S. Should Oppose the Creation of an International Anti-Corruption Court,\" Brett D. Schaefer, Steven Groves, and James M. Roberts outlined a number of arguments against the establishment of an International Anti-Corruption Court.\n"}
{"id": "22451554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22451554", "title": "Itzacon Eire", "text": "Itzacon Eire\n\nItzacon Eire, more popularly known as Itzacon (not to be confused with \"Itzacon\", a defunct Sci Fi convention formerly held in Texas) is the premier gaming convention run by the Fantasy and Science Fiction Society (Fansci) of NUI Galway, Ireland.\n\nItzacon Eire was founded in 2005 by Anita Murray, then Auditor of the Society. As of 2015 it has been run for eleven years successfully and looks to continue in that vein into its second decade.\n\nIn 2007 it established the National Game Writers Award. This award is for Role-playing game and LARP writers who have shown a continued dedication to the Irish convention scene and have produced material of noted quality for Itzacon Eire.\n"}
{"id": "27601819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27601819", "title": "Jakarta Fair", "text": "Jakarta Fair\n\nJakarta Fair () is a fair held annually in Jakarta International Expo (JIE) Kemayoran, Jakarta, Indonesia, in June and July. It features exhibitions, trade promotions, shopping, music performances, various shows, amusement rides and a food festival. The fair is meant to celebrate the anniversary of Jakarta. The Jakarta Fair sees exhibitors from across the country display a whole range of goods and products ranging from specialty food items to traditional handmade arts and crafts. In addition to the many exhibitors, there is also live entertainment including music, dance and cultural performances.\n\nThe fair incorporates trade exhibitions and entertainment that existed in Batavia (now Jakarta) during Dutch East Indies era. Originally the annual fair took place in \"Koningsplein\" (now Merdeka square) in \"Weltevreden\" Batavia and it was called \"Pasar Gambir\".\n\nPekan Raya Indonesia (old spelling Pekan Raja Indonesia), or Indonesia Fair, was held for three consecutive years between 1953 and 1955. It was held on the site where Atma Jaya University now stands, on what is then called Kebayoran Road (now Jalan Jendral Sudirman). The 1950s version of the Pekan Raya was held to stimulate the economy of Indonesia by boosting national exports and bringing new technology and products to Indonesia, with main focus on restructuring the economy after the end of the colonial period.\n\nThe first Pekan Raya Indonesia was held between 29 August to 4 October 1953, officially known in English as \"The First Indonesian International Trade & Industrial Fair\". China was the main international exhibitor. Among the notable features of the first Pekan Raya is the Chinese pavilion, which is the largest international pavilion in the Fair.\n\nThe second Pekan Raya Indonesia in 1954 has the Soviet Union as the main international exhibitor.\n\nThe last Pekan Raya Indonesia in 1955 has the United States as the main international exhibitor. Leading US companies e.g. Ford, General Motors, Caterpillar, Goodyear, RCA and Pan Am make exhibition in the fair. The Holiday on Ice was first introduced to Indonesia through the Pekan Raya Indonesia 1955, whose performance in Jakarta was attended by the wife of the late President, Eleanor Roosevelt. Among other notable features of the last Pekan Raya Indonesia is the \"Stand Televisi\" (\"television stand\"), among the first introduction of a true color television to Indonesia.\n\nThe modern Jakarta Fair or \"Pekan Raya\" was held again for the first time in 1968 and inaugurated by president Suharto. The fair took place from 5 June to 20 July 1968 on southern part of Merdeka square near National Monument. The idea to hold a grand fair in Jakarta was initiated by Jakarta's governor Ali Sadikin in 1967, inspired by the colonial era Pasar Gambir. He sought a centralized grand fair to combine several night markets (\"Pasar Malam\") held throughout the city. Since then it has become an annual event as part of the city's anniversary celebrations. The longest Jakarta Fair, of 71 days, was held in 1969. Usually Jakarta Fair is held for 30 to 35 days. United States president Richard Nixon is one of the VIP guest that visit Jakarta Fair 1969.\n\nPart of the Jakarta Fair was the Taman Ria fun park, which was operated all year on the southwest corner of Medan Merdeka, forming part of the Jakarta fairgrounds.\n\nThe last Jakarta Fair in southern side of Medan Merdeka was in 1991. In 1992, the fair was relocated to the old Kemayoran Airport site.\n\nBecause the number of participants grown steadily the fairground in the southern park of Medan Merdeka square was considered not large enough to contain the grand fair. In 1992 the Jakarta fairground was moved to its present location in Jakarta International Expo at Kemayoran. The exhibition complex is located on former Kemayoran Airport.\n\nIn 2010 trade worth Rp 3.5 trillion ($410 million) occurred in Jakarta Fair. The 2011 ticket price is Rp 15,000 ($1.8) on weekdays and Rp 20,000 ($2.4) on Saturday, Sunday and holidays. 2,600 companies joined the 2011 Jakarta Fair in more than 1,300 stalls. The event attracted more than 4 million visitors with transaction worth Rp 3.7 trillion ($432.9 million) and surpassed the target.\n\nA similar fair called Pasar Malam Besar held in The Hague, Netherlands, also inspired by the \"Pasar Malam\" tradition of colonial era Pasar Gambir.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "147807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147807", "title": "Japanese New Year", "text": "Japanese New Year\n\nThe is an annual festival with its own customs. Since 1873, the official Japanese New Year has been celebrated according to the Gregorian calendar, on January 1 of each year, . However, many traditional events of the Japanese New Year are still celebrated on the first day of the year on the modern Tenpō calendar, the last official lunisolar calendar which was used until 1872 in Japan.\n\nPrior to the Meiji period, the date of the Japanese New Year had been based on Japanese versions of lunisolar calendar (the last of which was the Tenpō calendar) and, prior to Jōkyō calendar, the Chinese versions. However, in 1873, five years after the Meiji Restoration, Japan adopted the Gregorian calendar and the first day of January became the official and cultural New Year's Day in Japan\n\nJapanese people eat a selection of dishes during the New Year celebration called , typically shortened to \"osechi.\" Many of these dishes are sweet, sour, or dried, so they can keep without refrigeration—the culinary traditions date to a time before households had refrigerators, when most stores closed for the holidays. There are many variations of \"osechi\", and some foods eaten in one region are not eaten in other places (or are considered inauspicious or even banned) on New Year's Day. Another popular dish is , a soup with \"mochi\" rice cake and other ingredients that differ based on various regions of Japan. Today, sashimi and sushi are often eaten, as well as non-Japanese foods. To let the overworked stomach rest, is prepared on the seventh day of January, a day known as .\n\nAnother custom is to create and eat . Boiled is put into a wooden container and patted with water by one person while another person hits it with a large wooden mallet. Mashing the rice, it forms a sticky white dumpling. This is made before New Year's Day and eaten during the beginning of January.\n\n\"Mochi\" is made into a New Year's decoration called , formed from two round cakes of mochi with a placed on top. The name \"daidai\" is supposed to be auspicious since it means \"several generations.\"\n\nAt midnight on December 31, Buddhist temples all over Japan ring their bells a total of 108 times (除夜の鐘 \"joyanokane\") to symbolize the 108 human sins in Buddhist belief, and to get rid of the 108 worldly desires regarding sense and feeling in every Japanese citizen. A major attraction is The Watched Night bell, in Tokyo. Japanese believe that the ringing of bells can rid their sins during the previous year. The bell is rung 107 times on 31st and once past midnight. It is also very common to eat buckwheat noodles called toshikoshi soba on the New Year's Eve.\n\nThe end of December and the beginning of January are the busiest times for the Japanese post offices. The Japanese have a custom of sending to their friends and relatives, similar to the Western custom of sending Christmas cards. Their original purpose was to give your faraway friends and relatives tidings of yourself and your immediate family. In other words, this custom existed for people to tell others whom they did not often meet that they were alive and well.\n\nJapanese people send these postcards so that they arrive on 1 January. The post office guarantees to deliver the greeting postcards on 1 January if they are posted within a time limit, from mid-December to near the end of the month and are marked with the word \"nengajō\". To deliver these cards on time, the post office usually hires students part-time to help deliver the letters.\n\nIt is customary not to send these postcards when one has had a death in the family during the year. In this case, a family member sends a simple postcard called to inform friends and relatives they should not send New Year's cards, out of respect for the deceased.\n\nPeople get their \"nengajō\" from many sources. Stationers sell preprinted cards. Most of these have the Chinese zodiac sign of the New Year as their design, or conventional greetings, or both. The Chinese zodiac has a cycle of 12 years. Each year is represented by an animal. The animals are, in order: Rat, Ox, Tiger, Rabbit, Dragon, Snake, Horse, Goat, Monkey, Rooster, Dog, and Pig. 2008 was the year of the Rat, 2009 Ox, 2010 Tiger, 2011 Rabbit, 2012 Dragon, and 2013 was the year of the Snake. Famous characters like Snoopy, (2006) and other cartoon characters like Mickey and Minnie Mouse, (2008) have been especially popular in their celebrated years.\n\nAddressing is generally done by hand, and is an opportunity to demonstrate one's handwriting (see \"shodō\"). The postcards may have spaces for the sender to write a personal message. Blank cards are available, so people can hand-write or draw their own. Rubber stamps with conventional messages and with the annual animal are on sale at department stores and other outlets, and many people buy ink brushes for personal greetings. Special printing devices are popular, especially among people who practice crafts. Software also lets artists create their own designs and output them using their computer's color printer. Because a gregarious individual might have hundreds to write, print shops offer a wide variety of sample postcards with short messages so that the sender has only to write addresses. Even with the rise in popularity of email, the \"nengajō\" remains very popular in Japan, although the younger generation hardly send any cards, preferring to exchange digital greetings using their mobile phones. In recent years this digital greeting preference is gradually accepted among the society.\n\nConventional greetings include:\n\nOn New Year's Day, Japanese people have a custom of giving money to children, known as \"otoshidama\". It is handed out in small decorated envelopes called \"pochibukuro\", similar to Shūgi-bukuro or Chinese hóngbāo and to the Scottish handsel. In the Edo period large stores and wealthy families gave out a small bag of mochi and a Mandarin orange to spread happiness all around. The amount of money given depends on the age of the child but is usually the same if there is more than one child so that no one feels slighted. It is not uncommon for amounts greater than ¥5,000 (US $47.16) to be given.\n\nThe New Year traditions are also a part of Japanese poetry, including haiku (poems with 17 syllables, in three lines of five, seven and five) and renga (linked poetry). All of the traditions above would be appropriate to include in haiku as \"kigo\" (season words). There are also haiku that celebrate many of the \"first\" of the New Year, such as the \"first sun\" (\"hatsuhi\") or \"first sunrise\", \"first laughter\" (\"waraizome\"—starting the New Year with a smile is considered a good sign), and first dream (\"hatsuyume\"). Since the traditional New Year was later in the year than the current date, many of these mention the beginning of spring.\n\nAlong with the New Year's Day postcard, haiku might mention \"first letter\" (\"hatsudayori\"—meaning the first exchange of letters), \"first calligraphy\" (\"kakizome\"), and \"first brush\" (\"fude hajime\").\n\nIt was also customary to play many New Year's games. These include \"hanetsuki\", \"takoage\" (kite flying), \"koma\" (top), \"sugoroku\", \"fukuwarai\" (whereby a blindfolded person places paper parts of a face, such as eyes, eyebrows, a nose and a mouth, on a paper face), and \"karuta\".\n\nThere are many shows created as the end-of-year, and beginning-of-year entertainment, and some being a special edition of the regular shows. For many decades, it has been customary to watch the TV show \"Kōhaku Uta Gassen\" aired on NHK on New Year's Eve. The show features two teams, red and white, of popular music artists competing against each other.\n\nThe final of the Emperor's Cup, the national association football elimination tournament in Japan, takes place on New Year's Day, generally in the Olympic Stadium in Tokyo, though it can be moved if the stadium is under renovation. The final has taken place on New Year's Day since 1969 and is usually aired on NHK.\n\nBeethoven's Ninth Symphony, with accompanying chorus, is traditionally performed throughout Japan during the New Years season. In December 2009, for example, there were 55 performances of the symphony by various major orchestras and choirs in Japan.\n\nThe Ninth was introduced to Japan by German prisoners-of-war held in Japan during World War I. Japanese orchestras, notably the NHK Symphony Orchestra, began performing the symphony in 1925. During World War II, the Imperial government promoted performances of the symphony, including on New Year's Eve, to encourage allegiance to Japanese nationalism. After the war, orchestras and choruses, undergoing economic hard times during the reconstruction of Japan, promoted performances of the piece around New Years because of the popularity of the music with the public. In the 1960s, performances of the symphony at New Years became more widespread, including participation by local choirs and orchestras, and established the tradition which continues to this day.\n\nThere is also an associated festival of , traditionally celebrating the first full moon of the new year, on the 15th day of the first lunar month (approximately mid-February). This is now sometimes celebrated on January 15, in various respects. The main events of Koshōgatsu are rites and practices praying for a bountiful harvest; is traditionally eaten in the morning and is involved in the rice gruel divination ceremony. Further, New Year decorations are taken down around this date, and some temples hold events, such as at Tōrin-in.\n\nThis corresponds to the Chinese Lantern Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "2619375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2619375", "title": "Joint Task Force Katrina", "text": "Joint Task Force Katrina\n\nJoint Task Force Katrina was a joint operation between the United States Department of Defense and the Federal Emergency Management Agency created on September 1, 2005 at Camp Shelby, Mississippi to organize relief efforts along the Gulf Coast in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. The operation was headed by U.S. Army Lieutenant General Russel L. Honoré. Joint Task Force Katrina took over operations from United States Northern Command that had some elements in place before Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast.\n\nIncluded in this was a joint mission of USAF Reserve Security Forces personnel at Kelly Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas. Their mission was to protect Air Force resources and personnel if the displaced persons being housed in shelters at Kelly AFB were to cause a civil disturbance.\n\nJTF Katrina was established the day after Hurricane Katrina finished its path through the Gulf coast. It was established on September 1, 2005 to coordinate the Department of Defense (DOD) and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) relief plans for the areas effected by Hurricane Katrina. At its creation Joint Task Force Katrina had about 7,000 National Guardsmen in Mississippi, 10,000 in Alabama, 6,500 in Louisiana,and 8,200 in Florida ready for duty. These troops had originally been put in place by Northern Command. First actions taken were flying helicopters for medical- evacuations that were started on September 1. The aircraft for these operations came from across the United States. Some came from as far as California to help in the relief effort. Pilots of these aircraft orders ranged from flying along the coastline looking for survivors and transporting food, water, and medical supplies to all of the refuge camps across the Gulf.\n\nNumerous Naval ships were sent to assist in the aid of the Gulf. for instance the Iwo Jima amphibious Readiness Group sailed from Virginia which consisted of the USS Iwo Jima (LHD-7), USS Shreveport (LPD-12), USS Tortuga (LSD-46) and USNS Arctic (T-AOE-8). The ships were loaded with disaster response equipment which went to Louisiana. In addition, the USNS Comfort (T-AH-20) came from Maryland to give medical supplies to the relief effort. The USS Grapple also was called in to do underwater salvaging of flooded areas throughout the Gulf coast.\n\nMultiple working staging areas were set up on multiple air force bases that included Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama; Naval Air Station Meridian, Mississippi; Barksdale Air Force Base, Louisiana ; Alexandria, Louisiana; and Fort Polk, Louisiana. These were set up to speed up movement of supplies and soldiers to get to needed areas. Joint Task Force Katrina eventually was relocated from Camp Shelby to the Iwo Jima that was in port in New Orleans. The United States Military also had 355 helicopters and 93 planes to the relief effort. Not including the 63,000 Active Soldiers that were also contributing to the cause.\n\n"}
{"id": "16968035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16968035", "title": "List of riots and civil unrest in Omaha, Nebraska", "text": "List of riots and civil unrest in Omaha, Nebraska\n\nThe following is a list of riots and civil unrest in Omaha, Nebraska. With its economic roots in cattle processing, meatpacking, railroads, manufacturing and jobbing, the history of Omaha has events typical of struggles in other cities over early 20th-century industrialization and labor problems. Racial tension was deeply based in economic and social competition as older immigrants had to contend with different ethnic groups from eastern and southern Europe and African Americans from the South. The latter were recruited for jobs in the expanding meatpacking plants as World War I shut off immigration from Europe. While numerous African Americans migrated to the city in its growing industrial phase, they were a distinct minority within the overall state population. Civil disorder in Omaha has related to the most critical events and tensions of an era, from showing support of homeless people in the 1890s; to anti-strikebreaker sentiment, focused on new Japanese residents at the turn of the 20th century; to anti-war events in the 1970s. The 1960s inner-city riots that destroyed parts of the Near North Side neighborhood were another manifestation of social and economic tension breaking out in violence.\n\nOften the violence did little to resolve the problems at their roots: for instance, labor inequities were persistent because of major industries' opposition to unionizing and insistence on \"open shop\" policies into the 1940s and beyond. Just as workers were finally achieving some successes, industries underwent major restructuring, causing loss of tens of thousands of jobs and movement of industrial work away from Omaha, stranding many in the working classes for some time. The challenges facing African Americans in Omaha with regard to economic inequity and social immobility also persist but the form has varied with social and economic changes. The racial tension persists in part because of problems with crime arising from dysfunctions of poverty, entwined issues of class and race, and the relative geographic and social isolation of some of the minority communities.\n\nIn the late 19th century civil unrest in Omaha was chiefly related to labor disputes that arose with industrialization. During the 1880s and '90s, the Governor of Nebraska repeatedly sent in the state militia during labor disputes in the smelting, railroad and meatpacking house industries. In 1895 the American Protective Association threatened large-scale riots throughout the city after Nebraska state law forced a complete alteration of the police and fire boards in the city.\n\nSocial tensions related to two world wars and several labor disputes resulted in violent upheavals in the first half of the 20th century, including the lynching of a black man in Omaha, followed by a race riot in 1919. The first recorded incidences of recorded racial discrimination occurred, pitting whites against Japanese and Greek immigrants. The emerging civil rights movement in Omaha raised expectations and the Vietnam War produced its own tensions. In the 1960s, African Americans violently protested in several different events, reacting against police brutality and other issues.\n\nThe Great Depression forced millions of people out of work through the 1930s and caused upheaval across the U.S. The struggle for control over work was a struggle for life, and most Americans were affected.\n\nThe aftermath of World War II brought apparent tranquility to much of the nation. However, in working class cities such as Omaha, labor unrest continued to weigh heavily on industry while the middle class was burgeoning. Restructuring of major industries rapidly cost tens of thousands of jobs in Omaha in the railroad and meatpacking industries in the decades after 1950. Members of the working class who could not quickly adapt were isolated in North and South Omaha as the economy retracted. With decreasing revenues, the city and businesses decreased investments in existing housing and infrastructure. At the same time, the city was expanding away from the river, with growth to new suburbs and development in the west, leading to white flight from many inner-city neighborhoods. Some new-style white collar jobs migrated to that area as well, or were concentrated in downtown.\n\nThe Civil Rights Movement in the United States and in Omaha resulted in demands against racism and for black power in the city, at a time when youth throughout the city were being drafted to fight in the Vietnam War. Resistance increased to what was perceived as mistreatment and police brutality, resulting in protests and riots, the repercussions of which are still felt today in some communities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58743617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58743617", "title": "List of wedding guests of Princess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank", "text": "List of wedding guests of Princess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank\n\nThe following is the guest list for the wedding of Princess Eugenie of York and Jack Brooksbank, which took place on 12 October 2018, at St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle.\n\n\nOther descendants of Princess Eugenie's great-great-grandfather King George V and their families:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPrincess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank invited representatives from charities and organisations that they support.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35388369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35388369", "title": "Matsuyama Shiroyama Koen Cherry Blossom Festival", "text": "Matsuyama Shiroyama Koen Cherry Blossom Festival\n\nThe Matsuyama Shiroyama Koen Cherry Blossom Festival is held every year in early April in Matsuyama, Ehime Prefecture, Japan. The Matsuyama Castle is lit up with paper lanterns at night until 9 PM. \n\nPeople eat home-cooked meals or take-out food under the cherry blossom tree, combined with drinking sake, talking and singing songs. The official song for the festival is Sakura Sakura, a traditional Japanese folk song. The preparation is that people have to line the Matsuyama castle with lanterns before the festival begins. It usually goes on for 3 days.\n\nJapanese festivals\n\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20120320023114/http://www.holidaychic.co.uk/ultimate-luxury/2012/03/12/best-places-to-celebrate-japanese-cherry-blossom-festivals\n"}
{"id": "51303220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51303220", "title": "Mineral Fire", "text": "Mineral Fire\n\nThe Mineral Fire was a wildfire that burned in Coalinga, Fresno County, California. The fire burned of land. \n"}
{"id": "23646617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23646617", "title": "Monkey Buffet Festival", "text": "Monkey Buffet Festival\n\nThe Monkey Buffet Festival is held annually in Lopburi, Thailand. In 2007, the festival included giving fruits and vegetables to the local monkey population of 2,000 in Lopburi Province north of Bangkok.\n\nThe festival was described as one of the strangest festivals by London's \"Guardian\" newspaper along with Spain's baby-jumping festival. A photograph from the Monkey Buffet Festival at Pra Prang Sam Yot temple in Lopburi Province shows a monkey trying to get at fresh fruits and vegetables embedded in blocks of ice.\n"}
{"id": "38733429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38733429", "title": "Moviemiento", "text": "Moviemiento\n\nMoviemiento - short films on the road is a travelling short film festival originating in Berlin.\n\nMoviemiento is a short film festival without a permanent venue. Instead cities and rural areas are visited along a given route. During the festival tour a documentary is produced and shown in the current program. Screenings are free of charge and generally take place in public space. Since 2008 besides film screenings the festival organizes other activities like workshops, film competitions and panel discussions. Often a festival tour has a specific subject. In the 2008 tour \"Moving Baltic Sea\" it was environmental protection. \"Kinomobilny\" in 2009 had bilateral exchange between Germany and Poland as a topic.\n\n"}
{"id": "37003258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37003258", "title": "Negros Trade Fair", "text": "Negros Trade Fair\n\nNegros Trade Fair is the longest running provincial trade fair started in 1985 by the Manila-based Negrenses who were moved by the news of poverty among the sugar farm workers in Negros Island. The First Negros Trade Fair was organized at the Makati Carpark at the behest of Bea Zobel from Ayala Land, Inc. with goods coming from backyard industries of Negros. Daniel \"Bitay\" Lacson, Jr., then Negros Navigation President and CEO, shipped the goods from Bacolod to Manila for free. The movement later grew as Bitay Lacson was appointed as OIC Governor of Negros Occidental and was re-elected into office.\n\nThis annual trade fair became a precursor for a vision to organize a formal association to consolidate the then fledgling individual producers. The Association of Negros Producers (ANP) was formed and registered in 1988 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, incorporated by the so-called \"14+1\" from the fourteen housewives and one gentleman who became incorporators of ANP. From then on, the task of organizing the annual Negros Trade Fair was passed on to the newly formed association.\n\nThe producer exhibitors from the Association of Negros Producers (ANP) are divided among the following:\n\n\nThis year's theme for the trade fair, the 27th Negros Trade Fair, is Beyond Limits. The trade fair will run from September 26 to 30, 2012 at Rockwell Tent.\n\nIn 2011, the Association of Negros Producers launched its new line of products, the Natural and Organic.\n\nThis was the Silver Anniversary of the Negros Trade Fair. ANP launched the coffee table book \"Silver Tiangge\" detailing the history of food and culture in Negros Island.\n\nThe 1987 theme for Third Negros Trade Fair was Masskara sa Makati with Masskara dancers sent to Manila to perform dances. Nikko Garden Hotel in Makati provided the space for the trade fair with the support of the Department of Trade and Industry.\n\nBulawan Awards was formed in 1990 by former ANP Vice-President Lyn Gamboa that awarded the producers for new products that they are launching at the Negros Trade Fair. The awardees are as follows:\n\nHacienda Crafts\n\nReeds and Weeds\n\nWoven Fancies\nJohanna's Export\n\nBarriolass\nGolden Furnishing\n\nArt Energy\n\nBarriolass\nSDT Handicrafts\n\nWoven Fancies\nArt Energy\n\nVS Heirlooms\nJohanna's Export\n\nArt Energy\nNonoy's Art Craft\n\nBabylan's Cococrafts\nHacienda Crafts\n\nBarriolass\nGolden Furnishing\n\nReeds and Weeds\n\nReeds and Weeds\nAtelier Aguila\n\nArt Energy\n\nAtelier Aguila\nVito Prints\n\nThe venue of the Negros Trade Fair for a decade consistently is the Rockwell Tent in Rockwell Center, Makati City. Rockwell Tent is accessible through public transport via jeepneys plying the route of Guadalupe-Ayala. Taxis are available as well in the area 24/7 though the operating hours of the trade fair are from 8am to 9pm.\n\n"}
{"id": "18587378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18587378", "title": "Palladists", "text": "Palladists\n\nPalladists is a name for an alleged Theistic Satanist society or members of that society. The name Palladian comes from Pallas and refers to wisdom and learning. It is of no relation to the architectural palladian style of Andrea Palladio.\n\nIn 1891 Léo Taxil (Gabriel Jogand-Pagès) and Adolphe Ricoux claimed to have discovered a Palladian Society. An 1892 French book \"Le Diable au XIXe siècle\" (The Devil in the 19th Century\", 1892), written by \"Dr. Bataille\" (actually Jogand-Pagès himself) alleged that Palladists were Satanists based in Charleston, South Carolina, headed by the American Freemason Albert Pike and created by the Italian liberal patriot and author Giuseppe Mazzini.\n\nArthur Edward Waite, debunking the existence of the group in \"Devil-Worship in France, or The Question of Lucifer\", ch. II: \"The Mask of Masonry\" (London, 1896), reports according to \"the works of Domenico Margiotta and Dr Bataille\" that \"[t]he Order of Palladium founded in Paris 20 May 1737 or Sovereign Council of Wisdom\" was a \"Masonic diabolic order\". Dr. Bataille asserted that women would supposedly be initiated as \"Companions of Penelope\". According to Dr. Bataille, the society had two orders, \"Adelph\" and \"Companion of Ulysses\"; however, the society was broken up by French law enforcement a few years after its founding. \n\nA supposed Diana Vaughan published \"Confessions of an Ex-Palladist\" in 1895. On April 19, 1897, Léo Taxil called a press conference at which, he claimed, he would introduce Diana Vaughan to the press. At the conference instead he announced that his revelations about the Freemasons were fictitious. He thanked the Catholic clergy for their assistance in giving publicity to his wild claims.\n\nThe Palladists are the name of the Greenwich Village Satanist society in Val Lewton's film \"The Seventh Victim\".\n\nThe Palladists play a major role in the latter part of Umberto Eco's novel \"The Prague Cemetery\" (2011).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34692093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34692093", "title": "Persistence Tour", "text": "Persistence Tour\n\nPersistence Tour is an annual festival tour of Europe featuring performances by hardcore bands.\n"}
{"id": "7491390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7491390", "title": "Richard Case Nagell", "text": "Richard Case Nagell\n\nRichard Case Nagell (August 5, 1930 – November 1, 1995) is a former United States military officer who, according to Dick Russell's biography of him, claimed to have had foreknowledge of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. According to Russell, Nagell also claimed to have gotten himself arrested in a bank shooting weeks before the assassination to avoid becoming a patsy. Nagell met with New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison, who at the time was investigating Clay Shaw's possible complicity in the assassination.\n\nNagell died from heart disease on November 1, 1995 in Los Angeles, California, one day after the Assassination Records Review Board had sent him a letter for information. He was 65 years old at the time of his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49141205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49141205", "title": "Richard Sugarman", "text": "Richard Sugarman\n\nRichard Sugarman (born July 12, 1944) is an American academic and political consultant. He is a professor of religion at the University of Vermont and \"a world-renowned expert on the Lithuanian-born philosopher Emmanuel Levinas.\" He was an advisor to presidential candidate Bernie Sanders on his 2016 presidential campaign.\n\nRichard Sugarman was born in Buffalo, New York. He is of Ukrainian Jewish descent on his paternal side and of English Jewish descent on his maternal side. His father's family were Hasidic Jews; his mother was a Reform Jew. His father was a serial entrepreneur.\n\nSugarman received his B.A. \"cum laude\" in philosophy from Yale University in 1966; his roommate was Joe Lieberman, who later served as United States Senator. One of his professors was John Daniel Wild, and he also was mentored by Paul Weiss. After serving as a Carnegie Teaching Fellow in philosophy at Yale during the 1966-1967 academic year, he went on to receive an M.A. from Yale in 1969 and a Ph.D. from Boston University in 1976, both in philosophy. His thesis was entitled, \"Toward a Phenomenology of Ressentiment\".\n\nFollowing his Carnegie Fellowship, Sugarman resumed teaching as a part-time instructor of philosophy and religion at the University of Vermont in 1970. He became a full-time instructor of philosophy and religion in 1971 before moving to the newly-formed religion department in 1974. In addition to receiving tenure in 1978, he was subsequently promoted to assistant professor (1976), associate professor (1986) and professor (2002) of religion. The author of several books, he specializes in the interstices between phenomenology, Jewish philosophy, existentialism, and ancient and modern humanities. He is also \"a world-renowned expert on the Lithuanian-born philosopher Emmanuel Levinas.\"\n\nAccording to Anna-Teresa Tymieniecka, \"one of his journal articles in \"Phenomenological Inquiry\" was on Pope John Paul II's nightstand the day he died.\"\n\nSugarman encouraged Bernie Sanders to run for mayor of Burlington, Vermont in 1981 after the two had lived together. He was an advisor to the 2016 Bernie Sanders presidential campaign.\n\nSugarman has a wife, Linda, and three children. They reside in Burlington, Vermont. Sugarman has arthritis. He is an Orthodox Jew and attended Congregation Ahavath Gerim. He is also an \"unapologetic Zionist.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "31542986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31542986", "title": "Seein' Red, White 'N' Blue", "text": "Seein' Red, White 'N' Blue\n\nSeein' Red, White 'N' Blue is a 1943 American cartoon short featuring Popeye, directed by Dan Gordon. The cartoon revolves around Bluto trying to escape the draft but ends up fighting alongside Popeye against some Japanese spies, Hirohito and Adolf Hitler.\n\nWhile Bluto is busy at work in his stable he receives a letter calling him for his draft service in the Navy. Bluto is very reluctant to join in and pretends to be ill. Popeye, who works at the draft bureau, is suspicious and sends a female dummy in to create an enthusiastic reaction from him. Even though his trick works Bluto still refuses to join the Navy. In a desperate effort to become disabled Bluto jumps out of the window, followed by Popeye who tries to catch him. They both crash deep into the ground, in fact so deep that Satan himself asks them to leave Hell. After Bluto and Popeye have climbed out of the massive crater Satan is kicked by an angel, after which they both disappear.\n\nBluto tries to flee, but is hit in a car accident. Even though he is knocked out the ambulance is only interested in the tires of the vehicle and carries these away on a stretcher instead of Bluto. Bluto tries to get hit by a falling safe instead, but again Popeye rescues him. This angers Bluto so much that he locks Popeye inside the object and then throws it away. It crashes inside an orphanage, where several Imperial Japanese Army spies are undercover, dressed as babies. While Popeye is being beaten by the spies, Bluto drops by to inform him that his arms are bandaged and that he finally will be able to escape the draft. When Bluto sees that Popeye is in trouble, he tries to help, but both men are knocked out by the Japanese. While they are being ridiculed, Popeye grabs his spinach, eats it and gives some to Bluto (can and all). Both men defeat the Japanese and Popeye's fist reaches so far that he knocks out Hirohito. The Emperor is hit so hard that he falls on the backside of his horse, (creating a pun on the word \"\"ass\")\", and says: \"It should happen to Hitler!\" Sure enough, the next scene cuts to Hitler, who gives a speech by saying: \"B.O.!\" (\"body odor\", a reference to a Lifebuoy soap commercial). Hitler too is beaten so hard that he loses his mustache. A title card appears, asking: \"Is there a doctor in the house?\", with the word \"doctor\" crossed out and \"undertaker\" written in crayon. While he lies unconscious, Hermann Göring runs in and asks his Führer melodramatically \"to speak to him\". Hitler just says \"B.O.\" again, whereupon Göring pulls his face away in disgust.\n\nThe cartoon concludes with Bluto finally signing up for his draft. When Bluto asks how to spell his own name, the imprisoned Japanese spies sing \"B-L-U-T-O\", in reference to the commercial jingle for Jell-o from that time.\n\nThe cartoon is notable for being one of the few where Bluto and Popeye actually fight together to beat a common foe. Because of its dated references to World War II and offensive racial stereotyping of Japanese people, it's no longer shown on American television.\n\nThe style of the cartoon is more reminiscent of a Looney Tunes or Tex Avery cartoon, with wild, frenetic takes and fourth wall breaking gags geared at adults. Some of the jokes, like the use of the phrase \"B.O.\" were used in a lot of Looney Tunes cartoons as well. This cartoon's score also features an excerpt of the tune of \"I Don't Want To Walk Without You\" which was first heard onscreen in Paramount's movie \"Sweater Girl\".\n"}
{"id": "49448212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49448212", "title": "Shahjahanpur Rang Mahotsav", "text": "Shahjahanpur Rang Mahotsav\n\nShahjahanpur Rang Mahotsav (SRM) is an Indian dance and theatre competition. The first event was held in December 2014 at Shahjahanpur, Uttar Pradesh. The event is organised jointly by Abhivyakti Natya Manch and a social group called Maas.\n\nIn Shahjahanpur Rang Mahotsav, teams have participated from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Odisha, West Bengal, Uttarakhand, Assam, Manipur, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, and Karnataka.\n\nIn 2014, a total of nineteen teams participated, and in 2015 participation increased to twenty-seven teams.\n"}
{"id": "17635879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17635879", "title": "Spies for Peace", "text": "Spies for Peace\n\nSpies for Peace was a British group of anti-war activists associated with the Committee of 100 who publicized government preparations for rule after a nuclear war. In 1963 they broke into a secret government bunker, Regional Seat of Government Number 6 (RSG-6) at Warren Row, near Reading, where they photographed and copied documents. The RSGs were to include representatives of all the central government departments, to maintain law and order, communicate with the surviving population and control remaining resources. The public were virtually unaware what the government was planning for the aftermath of a nuclear war until it was revealed by Spies for Peace.\n\nThey published this information in a pamphlet, \"Danger! Official Secret RSG-6\". Four thousand copies were sent to the national press, politicians and peace movement activists and copies were distributed on the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament's Easter march from Aldermaston.\n\nThe pamphlet said it was \"about a small group of people who have accepted thermonuclear war as a probability, and are consciously and carefully planning for it. ... They are quietly waiting for the day the bomb drops, for that will be the day they take over.\" It listed the RSGs and gave their telephone numbers. Most of the pamphlet was about RSG-6, which Spies for Peace described in detail. They said that \"RSG-6 is not a centre for civil defence. It is a centre for \"military government\"\", and they listed the personnel who were to staff it. The pamphlet described emergency planning exercises in which RSG-6 had been activated, including a NATO exercise in September 1962, FALLEX-62. Spies for Peace asserted that the exercise demonstrated the incapacity of the public services to cope with the consequences of nuclear attack and that the RSG system would not work.\nThe exercise, they said, \"proved once and for all the truth of the 1957 Defence White Paper that \"there is no defence against nuclear war\".\" In a hint at the source of their information, Spies for Peace said that FALLEX-62 \"convinced at least \"one\" occupant of one RSG at least that the deterrent is quite futile\". The pamphlet claimed that at the time of the Cuban Missile Crisis, a month after the NATO exercise, RSG-6 was not activated.\n\nThe authors objected strongly to the fact that the RSG network had not been publicly debated, that its staff were unelected and that they would have military powers.\n\nThe 1963 Aldermaston issue of the CND bulletin \"Sanity\" included the Spies for Peace revelations and several hundred demonstrators left the Aldermaston route and headed for RSG-6 where they set up a picket. Spies for Peace made front page news but the press was later advised by an official \"D-Notice\" from saying any more about the matter. The police tried to prevent any further distribution of the information but failed to do so. RSGs in Cambridge and Edinburgh were also picketed.\n\nAlthough several people were arrested, the original spies were not identified or caught. After Nicolas Walter died, it was revealed in 2002 by his daughter Natasha Walter that her father was one of the Spies for Peace. It was revealed in 2013 with her consent, again by their daughter, that Ruth, Walter's wife, was also a member of the group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4054883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4054883", "title": "Twelve Grapes", "text": "Twelve Grapes\n\nThe Twelve Grapes (Sp. \"Las doce uvas de la suerte\", \"The twelve grapes of luck\") is a Spanish tradition that dates back from at least 1895 but became established in 1909. In December of that year, some alicantese vine growers popularized this custom to better sell huge amounts of grapes from an excellent harvest.\n\nThe tradition consists of eating a grape with each bell strike at midnight of December 31. According to the tradition, that leads to a year of prosperity. In some areas, it is believed that the tradition wards away witches and general evil, although this \"magic\" is treated like an old heritage, and in modern days it's viewed as a cultural tradition to welcome the new year.\n\nThere are two main places where people gather to eat the grapes: with family after the dinner or in the main squares around the country, the Puerta del Sol in Madrid being the most famous place to do it.\n\nThe twelve grapes are linked to the Puerta del Sol tower clock, where this tradition started and from where the change of year is always broadcast.\n\nThis tradition was also adopted in places with a broad cultural relation with Spain and Latin American countries, as well as Hispanic communities in the United States. The Philippines has adopted the tradition as well.\n\nThis tradition is part of the Hispanic Christmas festivities.\n"}
{"id": "11326467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11326467", "title": "V-Tech Rampage", "text": "V-Tech Rampage\n\nV-Tech Rampage is a controversial amateur action video game that recreates the 2007 Virginia Tech shooting on the campus of Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Virginia, United States. The game was created by 21-year-old Ryan Lambourn from Australia. The Flash-based game came to light when it was uploaded to Newgrounds using Lambourn's screen name Master PiGPEN.\n\nThe previous prominent virtual school shooting reenactment, \"Super Columbine Massacre RPG!\", is a role-playing video game and has received praise for artistic merit as well as condemnation. \"V-Tech Rampage\" was created to be offensive\nwithout redeeming value.\n\nIn 2013, Lambourn caused further controversy with his game \"The Slaying Of Sandy Hook Elementary\", which re-created the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting. Unlike \"V-Tech Rampage\", however, \"The Slaying Of Sandy Hook Elementary\" was created to support gun control laws.\n\nThe game is a one-person work released weeks after the Virginia Tech massacre. Its graphics and control are both intentionally and amusingly clumsy. The player controls Seung-Hui Cho, the killer, through \"3 levels of stealth and murder!\" in a slanted overhead view. In the first level, the player must walk across Virginia Tech campus to shoot Emily J. Hilscher, Cho's real life first victim, without killing too many other people or scaring Emily away. Emily's death is witnessed by Ryan Clark, Cho's second victim, who also must be killed. In the second, he must walk across the same campus while avoiding the searchlights of police investigators. This is the only section with appreciable challenge. In the third, he barricades the exit of a school building and must shoot everyone inside in 90 seconds before the police arrive to arrest him. During this level, a song created by Lambourn plays while audio clips praise or laugh at murder, or scold the player for merely wounding. Liviu Librescu is the only real victim to appear in this segment. The game finishes with Cho's suicide, which occurs when the player presses the shoot button.\n\nCho monologues about mission goals and can also speak to other characters, whose reactions differ depending on whether they're fleeing Cho or not. The game's dialogue has occasional grammar or spelling errors, and is riddled with obscenities, insults, racist terms, scatological references and offers of sex from female characters in exchange for their lives.\n\nLambourn offered to remove the game if he received $2,000 in \"donations.\" For an additional $1,000, he offered to apologize.\n\nAttention angry people: I will take this game down from newgrounds (the games website) if the donation amount reaches $1000 US. I'll take it down from here [his website] if it reaches $2000 US, and I will apologise if it reaches $3000 US.\n\nLambourn later retracted the offer to remove the game, stating:\n\n...the donation thing is there as a joke against all the people commanding me to take my game down. I didn't think anyone would donate money to it and so far my paypal account has proven me right...\n\nIn 2013, a \"RIAA edition\" was created, with the original tracks removed, due to copyright infringement with the RIAA. This has replaced the original version on Newgrounds, The original edition was until recently available on Lambourn's site, however it has since been removed due to further threats from the RIAA. Now the RIAA edition is the only available one on his site, with the title music \"Hey, Hey, Hey, Fuck The RIAA\" on a looped track. However the unedited version can still be found. The MP3 of the music in question can also be acquired.\n\nThe game was compared to \"Super Columbine Massacre RPG!\", due to the re-creation of a mass murder in which the player controls the killer through a video game. Danny Ledonne, creator of \"Super Columbine Massacre RPG!\" posted a comment on Lambourn's website:\n\nInevitably, comparisons between [\"Super Columbine Massacre RPG!\"] and [\"V-Tech Rampage\"] are being made right now... For myself I wish to point out that [\"Super Columbine Massacre RPG!\"] was never a for-profit endeavor and thus I never posted statements like that which is on the [\"V-Tech Rampage\"] game's homepage (...) I would like to ask bloggers to consider not whether a game about the Virginia Tech shooting SHOULD be made but how we might go about making a game that accomplishes more than [\"V-Tech Rampage\"] does with the subject matter.\n\nNew York State Senator Andrew Lanza, chair of the Senate Task Force on Youth Violence and the Entertainment Industry requested that the gaming community boycott the game. However, video game publications wrote of concerns about backlashes against video games and wrote that this game was created by an individual, not the gaming industry.\n\nGamesRadar.com ranked the game as 4th in the \"Top 7 Most Evil Games\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41612936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41612936", "title": "Vasylkiv terrorists case", "text": "Vasylkiv terrorists case\n\nThe Vasylkiv terrorists case is an alleged terror plot of three far-right activists (\"the Vasylkiv terrorists\") trying to blow up a statue of Lenin in the Ukrainian city Boryspil in August 2011. The statue was removed in June 2011. The three suspects were arrested on 22 August 2011.\n\nImmediately after the three defendants were jailed for six years on 10 January 2014, violent clashes between the Ukrainian police and about a hundred protesters that had gathered at the courthouse broke out.\n\nFollowing the 2014 Ukrainian revolution, on February 24 they were released.\n\nAllegedly Volodymyr Shpara, Ihor Mosiychuk and Serhiy Bevza had plotted to blow up statue of Lenin in Boryspil on Independence Day of Ukraine on 24 August 2011. Shpara, Mosiychuk and Bevza were arrested on 22 August 2011 by the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU), after the SBU discovered a home-made explosive device and extremist leaflets in the office of \"Patriot of Ukraine\" organisation in Vasylkiv in a premises owned by Vasylkiv City Council. Shpara, Mosiychuk and Bevza denied the accusations and accused law enforcers of planting the bomb and leaflets on them. According to SBU spokeswoman Maryna Ostapenko (as stated on 23 August 2011) \"In addition to the explosive device, SBU officers also found a huge number of leaflets calling for extremist actions. The seized electronic medium containing a video showing schemes for blocking public institutions and producing improvised explosive devices, and one of the folders even contains videos of child pornography\". Initially the SBU suspected a plot to detonate a bomb during the celebration of Ukraine's Independence Day in Kiev. Before the alleged plot was discovered the Boryspil City Council had voted to remove the (alleged target) Lenin statue. The statue of Lenin in Boryspil was removed in June 2011 by the city's authorities.\n\nShpara, Mosiychuk and Bevza became known as \"the Vasylkiv terrorists\".\n\nOn 10 January 2014 the three defendants were jailed for six years beyond the two years they have already spent in pre-trial detention. Their defenders had stated that the crime never took place, that the statue had already been removed and police planted evidence to convict the three of a trumped-up charge. According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine someone had thrown an unidentified substance in the judge's face during the pronouncement of the sentence.\n\nThe sentencing of the three suspected bomb plotters on 10 January 2014 sparked violent clashes between the Ukrainian police and about 100 protesters that had gathered at the courthouse in Kiev for the verdict. The clash between police and protesters lasted overnight until 2 a.m. on 11 January 2014. The protesters had denounced the prosecution of the three men as politically motivated and a show trial. After the verdict they blocked the courthouse exit in an attempt to prevent police from taking the three convicts to prison. After police had broken through the crowd protesters along the route then blocked the vehicles that attempted to transport the convicts by surrounding them with private cars and puncturing tires. More police buses with at least 400 riot police then arrived. The following clashes between police and protesters left dozens of people injured, including former Minister of Internal Affairs Yuriy Lutsenko. (Who had arrived at the courthouse after the 400 riot police had arrived.) According to Lutsenko's wife Iryna her husband had been attacked by police as he tried to break up the violence. Lutsenko was hospitalised in an intensive care ward. According to MP from Svoboda Yuriy Syrotiuk over ten activists, several journalists and three fellow MPs and Svoboda party members (Eduard Leonov, Yuriy Bublyk and Pavlo Kyrylenko) were injured. According to Syrotiuk the Berkut riot police had violated official instructions and had hit people's heads. 20 Berkut were injured; one with a broken leg.\n\nThe event took place amid ongoing Euromaidan anti-government rallies. Just before the event took place, the Automaidan movement had blockaded buses carrying policemen.\n\nEuropean Union and US officials condemned the violence against demonstrators. US Ambassador to Ukraine Geoffrey R. Pyatt stated \"Yuriy Lutsenko will be remembered as hero of EuroMaidan\" (for trying to intervene in the confrontation between police and protesters).\n\nAccording to the Ukrainian authorities the verdict of 10 January had nothing to do with Euromaidan, but according to the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry \"Some MPs, hiding behind their status as people's deputies of Ukraine, entered into a violent confrontation with police, blocked the courthouse and the roadway around it. At the same time, the results of a medical examination of those who suffered in clashes with the police reveal some facts of them being in a state of alcoholic intoxication. This also concerns one prominent opposition politician\".\n\nUkraine's (then) ruling Party of Regions condemned the \"assault\" on the court and accused Svoboda of \"provocation\". The party said in a statement on 11 January 2013 \"It's perplexing that those who support European values, and a European path for Ukraine, support terrorists. The Party of Regions condemns any terrorist activities or plotting such activities\".\n\nThe prosecutor's office of Kiev launched a probe into allegations of abuse of authority by riot police officers the day following the riots.\n\n"}
{"id": "21612181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21612181", "title": "Winter Jam Tour Spectacular", "text": "Winter Jam Tour Spectacular\n\nWinter Jam Tour Spectacular, also referred to as simply Winter Jam (and formerly known as January Jam from 1995–2000), is an annual American music tour featuring contemporary Christian music artists of all genres, stunt and/or comedy performances, as well as a tour speaker. It is the United States' largest annual Christian Music Tour.\n\nConceived and created in 1995 as \"January Jam\" by contemporary Christian music group NewSong and produced and promoted by the promotions company, Premier Productions, Winter Jam has run annually since 1995. From its inception in 1995 through the most recent 2016 tour, the Winter Jam Tour Spectacular has toured all over the United States of America. Tickets are not required for the tour, as a $10 general admission is collected at the door of each arena, though this was raised to a $15 suggested donation in 2018. In 2010 the tour was rated the number two tour in the world. As of April 2011, they reported more than half a million in total attendance for the Winter Jam Tour Spectacular 2011, first quarter, attendance, and 90,000 \"decisions for Christ\" for. The tour outpaced attendance for all other tours in the first quarter of 2011, including Bon Jovi, U2, X Factor Live, Lady Gaga, Brad Paisley and Justin Bieber, according to Pollstar's 2011 Worldwide First Quarter Ticket Sales \"Top 100 Tour\" chart.\n"}
