{"id": "24793041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24793041", "title": "American Motorcycle Ass'n v. Superior Court", "text": "American Motorcycle Ass'n v. Superior Court\n\nAmerican Motorcycle Association v. Superior Court, (1978), was a case decided by the Supreme Court of California that first adopted a comparative fault regime for apportionment of liability among multiple tortfeasors for negligence in California.\n"}
{"id": "19286345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19286345", "title": "Anetan Constituency", "text": "Anetan Constituency\n\nAnetan Constituency is one of the constituencies of Nauru and is made up of two districts: Anetan and Ewa. It covers an area of 2.2 km², and has a population of 1,180. It returns two members to the Parliament of Nauru in Yaren.\n"}
{"id": "2117849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2117849", "title": "Animal Rights Militia", "text": "Animal Rights Militia\n\nThe Animal Rights Militia (ARM) is a banner used by animal rights activists who engage in direct action utilizing a diversity of tactics that ignores the Animal Liberation Front's policy of taking all necessary precautions to avoid harm to human life.\n\nWhen the Animal Rights Militia first emerged in the United Kingdom their focus was on illegal direct action. Utilizing tactics such as the destruction of property, intimidation, and including the use of violence, the ARM have sent letter bombs, placed incendiary devices under cars and in buildings, contaminated food products, sent death threats, and desecrated a grave.\n\nThe name was not heard of for eight years after a series of actions in England from 1982 to 1986. Philosopher Peter Singer wrote in 1986 that the ARM may not really exist. The ARM claimed an arson a year later in California, with a series of arsons, hoax bombs and threats reappearing in the 1990s, notably in the Isle of Wight, Cambridge, North Yorkshire and Oxford. The damage caused by fires averaged £2 million in each location. ARM activists continue to report actions in European countries, North America and Australia. Similar to the ALF, activists send anonymous claims of responsibility to \"Bite Back Magazine\", a website supportive of the animal liberation movement and its prisoners.\n\nThe ARM formed the same leaderless-resistance model as the Animal Liberation Front. A cell may consist of just one person. The existence of activists calling themselves the Animal Rights Militia or Justice Department reflects a struggle within the Animal Liberation Front and the animal rights movement in general, between those who believe violence is justified, and those who insist the movement should reject it in favor of non-violent resistance.\n\nPhilosopher Steven Best has coined the term \"extensional self-defense\" to describe actions carried out in defense of animals by human beings acting as proxy agents. He argues that, in carrying out acts of extensional self-defense, activists have the moral right to engage in acts of sabotage or even violence. Extensional self-defense is justified, he writes, because animals are \"so vulnerable and oppressed they cannot fight back to attack or kill their oppressors.\" He argues that the principle of extensional self-defense mirrors the penal code statutes known as the \"necessity defense,\" which can be invoked when a defendant believes that the illegal act was necessary to avoid imminent and great harm. In testimony to the Senate in 2005, Jerry Vlasak stated that he regarded violence against Huntingdon Life Sciences as an example of extensional self-defense.\n\nHistory\n\nThe Animal Rights Militia is believed to be a splinter group of the Animal Liberation Front. The reason ARM was created is that the ALF has a strict no-violence policy towards any living being, whereas this newfound group can use all means necessary to free animals from places of abuse and torture. Since they have been set up, the ARM has caused millions of pounds (and dollars) worth of damage to animal labs, universities and slaughterhouses. Also, ARM have cost companies such as Mars and Lucozade millions of pounds because of false contamination claims, as described later.\n\nSome ministers claim ARM does not actually exist, and is actually a part of the ALF, used to distract the police and intelligence services from itself.\n\nThe first action became known on November 30 when five letter bombs were sent to Margaret Thatcher, then British Prime Minister, the Home Office minister responsible for animal legislation, as well as the leaders of Britain's three main opposition parties, signed by the Animal Rights Militia. The office manager to Thatcher suffered superficial burns on his hands and face when opening the package that burst into flames. It was later reported that the 8-by-4 inch package filled with gunpowder that exploded evaded Post Office scanners, causing a tightening in mail security at 10 Downing Street. Scotland Yard led the investigation stating, \"We are now connecting all five letter-bombs with the same organisation.\"\n\nIn February, four months after the attack against politicians, five more letter bombs were sent to different addresses in London, England, claimed again by the ARM. In an action apparently to protest the annual seal hunt in Newfoundland, Canada, the explosives were delivered to the Canadian High Commission, the then Agriculture minister, a surgeon and a furrier. This time, however, as the padded envelopes were defused, there were no injuries. \n\nIn September, incendiary devices were placed under the cars of two animal researchers for BIBRA (British Industrial Biological Research Association) in South London, which completely wrecked both vehicles. ARM then claimed the contamination of Mars products, claiming it was because of their animal experiments relating to tooth decay which ARM claimed the company had no intention of ending. ARM then claimed the contamination was a hoax and they had not carried out the action. But claimed that it had caused huge financial damage which was the intention.\n\nThree months later in January, ARM claimed responsibility for placing incendiary devices under cars of four individuals involved in animal research at Huntingdon Life Sciences. The explosives were placed in Harrogate, South London, Staffordshire and Sussex, timed to explode an hour apart from each other. This time, also the last time according to the cell, the bomb disposal team were alerted, who deactivated the devices that were confirmed to be live. The next attack the ARM claimed was intended to kill Dr Andor Sebesteny, an animal researcher for the Imperial Cancer Research Fund (ICRF). However he noticed the device that was attached under his car which saved his life, since no warning had been given. ARM also claimed responsibility for sending more letter bombs to individuals involved in vivisection.\n\nOn 1 September, at San Jose Valley Veal & Beef, Santa Clara, California, the ARM claims responsibility for an arson which cost $10,000 in damages.\n\nOn 4 January 1992, the \"Edmonton Journal\" reported of an ARM action claimed by a letter and sent to the journal, as well as the Canadian Press. The cell said they injected 87 of the month-old food bar, the Canadian Cold Buster, with liquid oven cleaner, resulting in the product being pulled from shelves in Alberta, Canada. The ARM claimed in the letter, along with two bars, the contamination was due to the slaughter of thousands of rats, injected with various drugs, frozen and starved, \"...because of the decade-and-a-half-long history of animal suffering that is this candy's history.\" The police at the time advised against consuming the food bar, unsure whether the action was genuine. The candy bars sent to the media were later confirmed to have been injected with saline solution (harmless sterilised table salt), proving to be a hoax.\n\nOn 6 July, it was reported widely that the Cambridge store of Boots and also the Edinburgh Woolen Mill in the centre of the city had caught on fire. The Boots branch burnt for four hours completely destroying the building and the wool clothing store was badly damaged with the entire stock ruined. Two more devices were then found, both leather shops, one of which was in the pocket of a sheepskin coat. The ARM claimed all four devices, causing Cambridge city centre to be cordoned off whilst officers searched for two more devices that the cell claimed would explode the following day at 12pm. After an extensive search, it was concluded that the additional two devices claimed were a hoax, with no further devices exploding the following day. A month later, another leather shop was destroyed and the same wool mill suffered minor damage after devices went off, with two more recovered in leather shops and one in a fur shop.\n\nARM then set fire to shops on the Isle of Wight two week later, causing £3 million worth of damage. Initially an incendiary device had been found in a fishing tackle shop as a customer tried on a jacket, accidentally discovering the cigarette packet explosive. The police were called and seized the jacket for forensic tests, alerting all other fishing tackle shops in the island. However four further devices had been planted in Ryde and Newport, with the next one found in Halfords, a subsidiary of Boots, that was detonated in a controlled explosion. The three remaining devices then ignited in the early hours of the morning, setting ablaze two leather shops and an Imperial Cancer Research Fund (ICRF) shop, as a hundred firefighters attended to the fires.\n\nThroughout the rest of the year extensive damage continued to occur elsewhere, most notably in the other end of the country in North Yorkshire by the ARM. Boots in Harrogate and Fads, another Boots subsidiary, were set on fire, followed by another ICRF shop and a bloodsports shop. In York, a newly refurbished Boots and Fads were again targeted by arsonists, causing a less but still severe damage to the properties.\n\nOn Christmas Day, the ARM then claimed in writing to two of Vancouver's biggest chains, Save-On Foods and Canada Safeway, that they had injected rat poison into turkeys in supermarkets. Evidence of contamination was not found.\n\nARM further came to widespread public attention in the UK in December, during one of Horne's hunger strikes, which lasted 68 days. It was carried out in protest at the British government's refusal to order a commission of inquiry into animal testing, and ARM threatened to assassinate a number of individuals involved in vivisection should Horne die. Those threatened were Colin Blakemore, later chief executive of the Medical Research Council; Clive Page of King's College London, a professor of pulmonary pharmacology and chair of the animal science group of the British Biosciences Federation; Mark Matfield of the Research Defence Society; and Christopher Brown, the owner of Hillgrove Farm in Oxfordshire, who was breeding kittens for laboratories.\n\nARM claimed responsibility for removing, in October, from a grave the body of Gladys Hammond, the mother-in-law of Christopher Hall, part-owner of Darley Oaks Farm, which bred guinea pigs for Huntingdon Life Sciences, and which had been the target of the animal rights campaign Save the Newchurch Guinea Pigs. The body was removed from a churchyard in Yoxall, Staffordshire, and found buried in woodland on 2 May 2006.\n\nFollowing the announced in August that the Hall family were no longer breeding guinea pigs for medical research, the ARM sent letters to the homes of 17 company directors associated with HLS. Most of the companies targeted were building contractors based in Peterborough, Huntingdon, and Harrogate. A letter from the ARM activists said:\n\nTwo weeks after the letters were sent in late September, nine companies, more than half, severed their ties with HLS.\n\nFour people were convicted on 11 May for their involvement in what \"The Guardian\" called \"a six-year hate campaign\" that included letter bombs, vandalism and grave robbing. The judge described the group's actions as \"subjecting wholly innocent citizens to a campaign of terror.\" The campaign included hate mail signed Animal Rights Militia (ARM) and Animal Liberation Front (ALF). Those convicted were Jon Ablewhite, John Smith and Kerry Whitburn each of whom who were given twelve year sentences and Josephine Mayo who was sentenced to four years.\n\nOn 14 December, the ARM said they had poisoned bottles of POM juice drinks:\n\nA spokesperson for POM replied: \"If it is a hoax, it is a form of blackmail. If actual contamination has taken place, with the intention of injuring innocent people, it is an act of terrorism. Either way, the Animal Rights Militia is trying to scare and intimidate innocent people. That is criminal behaviour.\" It also said that the company conducted a vast amount of research involving human studies and that only a small number of tests were animal based, which did not include dogs, cats or primates. The owners the following month then stated: \"POM Wonderful pomegranate juice has ceased all animal testing, and we have no plans to do so in the future.\" This followed Whole Foods Market, the biggest grocery chain in natural stores, threatening to stop selling their products, initiated by the PETA campaign.\n\nIn October 2007 the ARM again claimed to have contaminated tubes of Savlon with sodium hydroxide, as well as Lypsyl and Lamisil, citing no anti-tampering seal.\n\nOn 30 August, ARM claimed to have deliberately contaminated 250 tubes of Novartis's widely used antiseptic Savlon in shops including Superdrug, Tesco and Boots The Chemist who all withdrew sales of the cream. The cell claimed in a communique to Bite Back:\n\nThe ARM has claimed attacks in Sweden, mainly against vivisection personnel and fur farm owners. The actions involved bomb threats and vandalism against the target's private homes. There was a wave of ARM-claimed attacks in Sweden during 2011-2012 after the arrest of a young animal rights activist who was sentenced to prison in 2011.\n\nPaul Scare was sentenced to one year in prison for sending razor blades to the people who he had targeted.\nBarry Horne was subsequently jailed for eighteen years for the arson attacks. The prosecution successfully argued that the devices used in Bristol and the Isle of Wight were so similar that Horne should be regarded as responsible for both, despite only pleading guilty to an attempted arson in Bristol. Robin Webb, who runs the Animal Liberation Press Office in the UK, narrowly avoided being charged with conspiracy.\n\nNiel Hanson was sentenced to three years for sending the hoax device to GlaxoSmithKline public relations officer in Hertfordshire. He was initially charged with conspiracy to murder, which was then revised to a lesser crime and he was re-sentenced to serve three years, for the device that was a bag of cat litter sent via taxi.\n\n\n\nARM Communiqués\n"}
{"id": "14668445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14668445", "title": "Animal testing regulations", "text": "Animal testing regulations\n\nAnimal testing regulations are laws or guidelines that permit and control the use of non-human animals for scientific experimentation. They vary greatly around the world, but most governments aim to control the number of times individual animals may be used; the overall numbers used; and the degree of pain that may be inflicted without anesthetic.\n\nExperiments on vertebrate animals in the European Union are since January 1, 2013. subject to \"Directive 2010/63/EU on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes\", which was finalized in November 2010 and updated and replaced the \"Directive 86/609/EEC on the protection of Animals used for Experimental and other scientific purposes\", adopted in 1986. Directive 86/609/EEC showed considerable variation in the manner member countries chose to exercise the directive: compare, for example, legislation from Sweden, The Netherlands, and Germany.\n\nWith a 2004 amendment to the Cosmetics Directive, the animal testing for cosmetic products is forbidden in the EU. Also animal testing for cosmetic ingredients is prohibited since March 2009. The amendment also prohibited, since 11 March 2009, to market cosmetic products containing ingredients which have been tested on animals. The amendment does not prohibit companies to use animal testing to fulfill regulatory requirements in other countries.\n\nIn France, legislation (principally the decree of October 19, 1980) requires an institutional and project license before testing on vertebrates is carried out. An institution must submit details of their facilities and the reason for the experiments, after which a five-year license may be granted following an inspection of the premises. The project licensee must be trained and educated to an appropriate level. Personal licenses are not required for individuals working under the supervision of a project license holder. These regulations do not apply to research using invertebrates.\n\nThe types of institutions conducting animal research in the UK in 2015 were: universities (47.7%); commercial organizations (25.1%); government departments and other public bodies (13.8%); non-profit organizations (12.4%); National Health Service hospitals (0.7%); public health laboratories (0.2%).\n\nThe Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 requires experiments to be regulated by three licences: a project licence for the scientist in charge of the project, which details the numbers and types of animals to be used, the experiments to be performed, and the purpose of them; a certificate for the institution to ensure it has adequate facilities and staff; and a personal licence for each scientist or technician who carries out any procedure. In deciding whether to grant a licence, the Home Office refers to the Act's cost-benefit analysis, which is defined as \"the likely adverse effects on the animals concerned against the benefit likely to accrue as a result of the programme to be specified in the licence\" (Section 5(4)). A licence should not be granted if there is a \"reasonably practicable method not entailing the use of protected animals\" (Section 5(5) (a)). The experiments must use \"the minimum number of animals, involve animals with the lowest degree of neurophysiological sensitivity, cause the least pain, suffering, distress, or lasting harm, and [be the] most likely to produce satisfactory results\" (Section 5(5) (b)).\n\nDuring a 2002 House of Lords select committee inquiry into animal testing in the UK, witnesses stated that the UK has the tightest regulatory system in the world, and is the only country to require a cost-benefit assessment of every licence application. There are 29 qualified inspectors covering 230 establishments, which are visited on average 11–12 times a year in both announced and unannounced inspections.\n\nAs a result of the transposition of Directive 2010/63/EU, changes were made to the way research is reviewed and approved in the UK. All licensed establishments must have an Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body (commonly referred to as AWERBs) which considers and monitors project applications for the site. The assessment of severity has also changed under the amendments to the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act (1986). Working examples of severity bands are provided by European Commission Expert Working Group. The assessment of severity must also be conducted retrospectively, which results in severity being assigned on the basis of the \"actual\" suffering experienced by the animals, rather than what is presumed during study design. This in turn leads to more accurate prospective assignment of severity bands.\n\nThe German Animal Welfare Act, 1972, is designed to enforce the utilitarian principle that there must be good reason for one to cause an animal harm and identifies that it is the responsibility of human beings to protect the lives and well-being of their fellow creatures. The Animal Welfare Act is supplemented by the Animal Protection Laboratory Animal Regulations, 2013, and the European Directive 2010/63/EU. All animal research facilities must be inspected at least every three years, with facilities conducting primate research being inspected at least once per year.\n\nAnimal Experimentation in Japan is regulated by several documents - the Law for the Humane Treatment and Management of Animals, 2005, The Standards Relating to the Care and Management, and Alleviation of Pain and Distress of Experimental Animals, 2006, and guidelines by \nvarious ministries and organizations.\n\nThe law states that causing distress to animals is not allowed without due cause (Article 2), and that when conducting animal experiments, methods that reduce the pain and distress of the animals as much as possible shall be used. It also states that consideration shall be given as to the appropriate use of animals, for example by reducing the number of animals used when possible (Article 41).\n\nThe Standards state that usage of animals for scientific purpose is necessary. They include regulations for the refinement of experiments, in order to reduce the pain and distress of the experimental animals, and consideration for replacing animal experiments with alternatives or reducing the number of animals used.\n\nMEXT (The Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology) and MHLW (The Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare) established the guidelines named \"Basic policies on animal experimentation\" as quasi-regulations on June 1, 2006. The SCJ (Science Council \nof Japan) formulated more detailed guidelines, also in 2006, to be used when institutions formate their local regulations.\n\nThe SCJ's guidelines state that the director of each research institution bears the responsibility for animal experiments conducted at their facilities, that animal experiments are indispensable, and that each institution should formulate voluntary in-house regulations for proper scientific conduct of animal experiments based on the guidelines. As well, they state that each institution should form an in-house review committee in order to inspect the experiments at that institution, from the standpoint of scientific rationale, with consideration to the Law and Standards mentioned above.\n\nHowever, ALIVE Foundation conducted a survey of Japanese universities and research facilities in 2011, and concluded that:\n\n\"There appears to be little consciousness about the use of animals in experiments. Although there is an official guideline that should be followed, national universities are not complying with the guideline (in particular, in choosing particular kinds of animal, self-assessment and care/management of animals).\" \n\nIn the United States, animal testing on vertebrates is primarily regulated by the Animal Welfare Act of 1966 (AWA), and the Animal Welfare Regulations which is enforced by the Animal Care division of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). The AWA contains provisions to ensure that individuals of covered species used in research receive a certain standard of care and treatment, provided that the standard of care and treatment does not interfere with \"the design, outlines, or guidelines of actual research or experimentation.\" Currently, AWA only protects mammals. In 2002, the Farm Security Act of 2002, the fifth amendment to the AWA, specifically excluded purpose-bred birds, rats, and mice (as opposed to wild-captured mice, rats, and birds) from regulations. Even though most animals used in research are mice, rats, and fish, over a million other research animals per year are covered by the Animal Welfare Act and Animal Welfare Regulations. The AWA requires each institution using covered species to maintain an Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC), which is responsible for local compliance with the Act. In addition, the IACUC reviews and approves each animal use protocol, which is a written description the researchers submit describing all procedures to be done with laboratory animals. Researchers must consult with a veterinarian for each procedure that may cause more than momentary pain or distress to the animals. In addition a written justification for these procedures, as well as documentation of a search for alternatives to these procedures, must be included with the protocol. The IACUC must review and approve these protocols at least annually. The IACUC also inspects all the animal facilities, including satellite facilities, every 6 months. As a part of this semi-annual inspection the committee also reviews the entire animal care and use program, and submits a \"semi-annual report\" to the Institutional Official. The Guide (enforced by OLAW) also has requirements for IACUC responsibilities and program reviews.\n\nAnimal care and use in research in the United States are largely controlled by Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees.\n\nThe following information is based on IACUC activity in the United States over 15 years ago. In addition, the purpose of an IACUC is not to provide \"consistent\" oversight across studies or institutions. Each institution has its own culture, priorities, and interpretations. \nA study conducted in 2001 by Psychology Professor Scott Plous of Wesleyan University that evaluated the reliability of IACUCs found little consistency between decisions made by IACUCs at different institutions. A Wesleyan University press release summarized part of the findings:\n\nIn response to the Plous study, a rebuttal letter to \"Science\" written by animal researchers, animal care staff, and members of professional research societies stated:\n\nInstitutions are also subject to unannounced annual inspections from USDA APHIS Veterinarian inspectors. There are about 70 inspectors monitoring around 1100 research institutions. The inspectors also conduct pre-licensing checks for sites that do not engage in animal research or transportation, of which more than 4000 exist (e.g. dog kennels).\nAnother regulatory instrument is the Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare (OLAW), which is an office within the US National Institutes of Health. OLAW oversees all animal studies funded by the Public Health Service (including NIH). The Health Research Extension Act of 1985 directed the NIH to write the Public Health Service (PHS) Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. This Policy applies to any individual scientist or institution in receipt of federal funds and requires each institution to have an IACUC, among other stipulations. OLAW enforces the recommendations in the \"Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals\" published by the Institute for Laboratory Animal Research, which covers all vertebrate species, including rodents, birds, fish, amphibians, and reptiles This means that IACUCs oversee the use of all vertebrate species in research at facilities receiving federal funds, even if the species are not covered by the AWA. OLAW does not carry out scheduled inspections, but requires that \"As a condition of receipt of PHS support for research involving laboratory animals, awardee institutions must provide a written Animal Welfare Assurance of Compliance (Assurance) to OLAW describing the means they will employ to comply with the PHS Policy.\" OLAW conducts inspections only when there is a suspected or alleged violation that cannot be resolved through written correspondence.\nAccreditation from the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC), a non-governmental, nonprofit association, is regarded by the industry as the \"gold standard\" of accreditation. Accreditation is maintained through a prearranged AAALAC site visit and program evaluation hosted by the member institution once every three years. Accreditation is intended to ensure compliance with the standards in the \"Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals\", as well as any other national or local laws on animal welfare.\n\nThe Canadian Council on Animal Care (CCAC) is set up to act in the interests of the people of Canada to ensure through programs of education, assessment and guidelines development that the use of animals, where necessary, for research, teaching and testing employs optimal physical and psychological care according to acceptable scientific standards, and to promote an increased level of knowledge, awareness and sensitivity to relevant ethical principles. At the inaugural meeting on January 30, 1968, the CCAC adopted the following statement of objective: \"to develop guiding principles for the care of experimental animals in Canada, and to work for their effective application\".\n\nThe federal government does not have jurisdiction to pass laws that involve experiments on animals. The provinces have jurisdiction concerning that area. The federal government, however, is involved in three areas: the criminal law power, the health power, and the spending power.\n\nThe Criminal Code of Canada\nSection 446 and 447 of the Criminal Code protect animals from cruelty, abuse and neglect. This section of the Criminal Code has been under review for several years.\n\nThe Health of Animals Act\nThe Health of Animals Act (1990) and its regulations are aimed primarily at protecting Canadian livestock from a variety of infectious diseases that would threaten both the health of the animals and people, and Canadian trade in livestock with other countries. This act is used both to deal with named disease outbreaks in Canada, and to prevent the entry of unacceptable diseases that do not exist in Canada.\n\nThe Spending Power\nThe other mechanism through which the federal government has lent its support to the humane treatment of animals is not strictly speaking legislative in nature, but in many respects it is one of the most powerful instruments available to the federal government for setting national standards. The federal government's power to provide for grants subject to conditions imposed on the recipients, be they provincial governments or individual or corporate recipients, may take a variety of different forms. One form is that of the conditional federal grant or contract. This manifestation of the federal power is what currently underpins the imposition of CCAC standards on facilities receiving funding from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research and the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council. Where the government itself awards a contract on an academic or non-academic institution, clause A9015C of Public Works Standard Acquisition Clauses and Conditions Manual imposes conditions related to the care and use of experimental animals in public works and government services.\n\nAll of the provinces in Canada have created and passed laws that pertain to animal welfare, but only certain provinces have made their own laws. These provinces are Alberta, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Ontario, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and Prince Edward Island.\n\nIn 2006, the Alberta Animal Protection Act was revised and declared. Previously in Alberta, only academic institutions were subject to provincial regulations referencing CCAC standards, as these standards were referenced exclusively in the Alberta Universities Act. In 2005, the Universities Act and two other laws were examined by the Alberta Agriculture, Food and Rural Development Ministry (AAFRD), in hopes of combining them and update their content. Article 2(1) of the Animal Protection Regulations was revised by the CCAC and AAFRD and now states that \"a person who owns or has custody, care or control of an animal for research activities must comply with the following Canadian Council on Animal Care documents\", and lists all 22 CCAC standards, including the CCAC Guide to the Care and Use of Experimental Animals and the various guidelines and policies published by the CCAC.\n\nIn Prince Edward Island, the \"Animal Protection Regulations\" made under the \"Animal Health and Protection Act\" state that the rules controlling the care of animals used for medical or scientific research can be found in Volumes 1 and 2 of the \"Guide to the Care and Use of Experimental Animals\" published by the CCAC.\n\nIn the province of Manitoba, according to the Animal Care Act, it is not allowed for a person to cause suffering to an animal. The use of animals for research and teaching is acceptable as long as it follows the rules set out in the Act. All institutions that use animals for research and teaching purposes have to submit to obey the system put in place by the CCAC. Failing to do so, any harm done to an animal in a research or teaching program will be regarded as an offense under the Act.\n\nAll of the research facilities in Ontario must be registered and licensed based on the legislation Animals for Research Act. Among the provisions of the Animals for Research Act, one should note the duty to establish an animal care committee, the responsibilities and powers of which are similar to those required under the CCAC system, and the requirement for any operator of a research facility to submit to the person designated by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs a report respecting the animals used in the research facility for research. Regulation 24 governs the housing and care of the animals. Regulation 25 controls the conditions for transportation of the animals that are used or going to be used by a research facility.\n\nIn Australia, Animal Ethics Committees (AECs) determine whether the use of an animal is valid or not. AECs must follow the Code in order to ensure the wellbeing of the animals used for research. The Code emphasizes the responsibilities of investigators, teachers and institutions using animals to:\nscientific and teaching activities;\n\nScientific and teaching activities using animals may be performed only when they are essential:\n\nResearchers can only conduct their studies once it has approved the validity of the use of the animals and that there is more educational or scientific gain that outweighs the possible effects on the welfare of the animals. The researchers must submit a written proposal to an AEC stating what is to be accomplished, a defense for the study, and the ethical and wellbeing of the animals used reflecting the 3Rs.\n\nNew Zealand's Animal Welfare Act 1999 requires owners and people in charge of animals to ensure the physical, health and behavioural needs of animals are met, and that pain and distress are alleviated. In New Zealand, as in many countries, laboratory animals (mainly rodents) and farm animals (mainly cattle and sheep) are used in research, testing and teaching – commonly referred to as RTT. Animal use in RTT is strictly controlled under the Animal Welfare Act 1999 and organisations using animals must follow an approved code of ethical conduct. This sets out the policies and procedures that need to be adopted and followed by the organisation and its animal ethics committee.\n\nEvery project must be approved and monitored by an animal ethics committee. These committees must have three external members:\n\n\nCode holders and their animal ethics committees are independently reviewed (by MPI accredited reviewers) at least once every five years. All code holders have to submit annual animal use statistics on the number of animals used in research, testing or teaching, and its impact on them, from little or none to severe.\n\nThe Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) administers the Act and leads animal welfare policy and practice in New Zealand. The National Animal Ethics Advisory Committee (NAEAC) was established under the Animal Welfare Act to provide independent advice to the Minister for Primary Industries about:\n\n\nThe federal law for the scientific use of animals was passed in 2008. The law established the National Council for the Control of Animal Experimentation (CONCEA) and demanded that institutions create an ethics committee on the use of animals.\n\nIn 2009, Decree 6899/2009 defined CONCEA as the governing and advisory body, under the Ministry of Science and Technology, to authorize accreditation to registered institutions and to license those institutions to use animals in research. The same decree also states that an electronic database be developed to allow breeding and research facilities to register in order to apply for CONCEA accreditation.\n\nBrazil also reinforces the 3Rs.\n\n"}
{"id": "40500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40500", "title": "Apostolicam Actuositatem", "text": "Apostolicam Actuositatem\n\nApostolicam Actuositatem is the Second Vatican Council's Decree on the Apostolate of the Laity. It was approved by a vote of 2,340 to 2 of bishops assembled at the Council, and promulgated by Pope Paul VI on 18 November 1965. The title is Latin for \"Apostolic Activity\", which is from the first line of the decree, as is customary with significant Catholic documents.\n\n\"Apostolicam Actuositatem\" acknowledges the central importance of the laity in the mission of the Catholic Church. The purpose of this document was to encourage and guide lay people in their Christian service. In this decree the Council sought to describe the nature, character, and diversity of the lay apostolate, to state its basic principles, and to give pastoral directives for its more effective exercise. The specific objectives of lay ministry are: evangelization and sanctification, renewal of the temporal order, and charitable works and social aid. The decree quotes Colossians 3:17: \"Whatever you do in word or work, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God the Father through Him\".\n\n\"Apostolicam Actuositatem\" follows upon \"Lumen gentium\", the \"Dogmatic Constitution on the Church\", of 21 November 1964, which in Chapter IV, discusses the laity, by which they mean all the faithful except those in Holy Orders or religious institutes. \"They live in the ordinary circumstances of family and social life, from which the very web of their existence is woven. ...led by the spirit of the Gospel they may work for the sanctification of the world from within as a leaven. In this way they may make Christ known to others, especially by the testimony of a life resplendent in faith, hope and charity.\n\nThe Pontifical Council for the Laity had its foundation in Vatican II's Apostolicam Actuositatem - Decree on the Lay Apostolate §26. The council was created in January 1967 by Pope Paul VI's motu proprio Catholicam Christi Ecclesiam. In December 1976, the council was included as a permanent fixture of the Roman Curia. In September 2016, its functions were shifted to the new Dicastery for the Laity, Family and Life.\n\n\"The numbers given correspond to the section numbers within the text.\"\n\n\nContent includes:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56237599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56237599", "title": "Argentine economic emergency law", "text": "Argentine economic emergency law\n\nThe Argentine economic emergency law was sanctioned in 2002, during the presidency of Eduardo Duhalde. As a result of the 2001 economic crisis, the law set a state of emergency on the national economy. The law allowed the president to do things that are usually set to the Congress, such as influence the exchange rate, turn debts in US dollars into debts in Argentine pesos, set the price of taxes and tariffs, renew contracts with the providers of public services, set the price of some products, and taxes on oils, among other things. \n\nInitially, the law was expected to be in force for two years. However, the governments of Néstor Kirchner and Cristina Fernández de Kirchner always asked the Congress to renew it for two more years. It was renewed for the last time in December 2015, nearing the end of the presidency of Cristina Kirchner. President Mauricio Macri did not ask for such renewal in December 2017, and so the law ceased to be in force in the first days of 2018, 16 years after its initial sanction. \n"}
{"id": "3444157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3444157", "title": "Article 301 (Turkish Penal Code)", "text": "Article 301 (Turkish Penal Code)\n\nArticle 301 is an article of the Turkish Penal Code making it illegal to insult Turkey, the Turkish nation, or Turkish government institutions. It took effect on June 1, 2005, and was introduced as part of a package of penal law reform in the process preceding the opening of negotiations for Turkish membership of the European Union (EU), in order to bring Turkey up to Union standards.\nThe original version of the article made it a crime to \"insult Turkishness\"; on April 30, 2008, the article was amended to change \"Turkishness\" into \"the Turkish nation\". Since this article became law, charges have been brought in more than 60 cases, some of which are high-profile. The Great Jurists Union () headed by Kemal Kerinçsiz, a Turkish lawyer, is \"behind nearly all of Article 301 trials\". Kerinçsiz himself is responsible for forty of the trials, including the high-profile ones.\n\nOn April 30, 2008 a series of changes were made on the Article 301, including a new amendment which makes it obligatory to get the approval of the minister of justice to file a case. This change was made to prevent the possible misuse of the article, especially against high-profile cases, filling up legal holes in the older version.\n\nThe article currently reads as follows:\n\nBefore amendments were made to Article 301 on April 30, 2008, the article stated the following:\n\nBefore the current Turkish Penal Code took effect, article 159 of the Turkish Penal Code dated 1926 covered the same offense. Among the earliest uses of article 159 was in 1928, when a number of Jews were convicted of \"denigrating Turkishness\" in the wake of the Elza Niego affair. Their crime had been to protest the murder of a young Jewish girl by a middle-aged government official.\n\nArticle 159 was amended a few times, including in 1961 and 2003, before finally being replaced by the current article 301 in 2005.\n\nArticle 301 has been used to bring charges against writer Orhan Pamuk for stating, in an interview with Swiss magazine \"Das Magazin,\" a weekly supplement to a number of Swiss daily newspapers, including the \"Tages-Anzeiger\", that \"Thirty thousand Kurds have been killed here, and a million Armenians. And almost nobody dares to mention that. So I do.\" The charges, which were brought against Pamuk upon a complaint filed by Kemal Kerinçsiz, were later dropped after the Justice Ministry refused to issue a ruling as to whether the charges should stand.\n\nIn February 2006 the trial opened against five journalists charged with insulting the judicial institutions of the State under Article 301, and also of aiming to prejudice a court case under Article 288 of the Turkish Penal Code. Each of the five had criticized a court order to shut down a conference in Istanbul about the Ottoman Armenian casualties in the Ottoman Empire during the First World War. (The conference was nevertheless eventually held after having been transferred from a state university to a private university.) The charges carried a potential penalty of a prison term of up to 10 years. The court dropped the charges against four of them on April 11, 2006 when it was determined that the time allowed by the statute of limitation had been exceeded, while Murat Belge, the fifth, was acquitted on June 8, 2006.\n\nAnother high-profile case to result from this legislation involved the writer and journalist Perihan Mağden, who was prosecuted for penning an article originally published in the December 26, 2005 issue of \"Yeni Aktuel\", titled \"Conscientious Objection is a Human Right\". The Turkish military filed a complaint against her in response. In the trial, which took place on July 27, 2006, she was acquitted when the court ruled that her opinions were covered by the freedom of expression and were not a crime under the Turkish Penal Code. If convicted she could have faced three years' imprisonment.\n\nIn July 2006 the Istanbul public prosecutor's office prepared an indictment alleging that the statements in the book \"\" by Noam Chomsky and Edward S. Herman constituted a breach of the article. The publisher and editors of the Turkish translation, as well as the translator, were brought to trial accordingly, but acquitted in December 2006.\n\nIn 2006 Elif Şafak also faced charges of \"insulting Turkishness\" because of her latest novel, \"The Bastard of Istanbul.\" The case was thrown out by the judge after a demand by the prosecutor for the case to be dropped.\n\nIn 2006, the well-known Armenian-Turkish journalist Hrant Dink was prosecuted under the Article 301 for insulting Turkishness, and received a six-month suspended sentence. He was subsequently assassinated by radical nationalists. Orhan Pamuk declared, \"In a sense, we are all responsible for his death. However, at the very forefront of this responsibility are those who still defend article 301 of the Turkish Penal Code. Those who campaigned against him, those who portrayed this sibling of ours as an enemy of Turkey, those who painted him as a target, they are the most responsible in this.\"\nHrant Dink was posthumously acquitted of the charges on June 14, 2007, in a retrial ordered by the Court of Appeals.\n\nPublisher Ragıp Zarakolu is on trial under Article 301 as well as for “insulting the legacy of Atatürk” under Law 5816.\n\nIn 2007, Arat Dink (Hrant Dink's son) and Serkis Seropyan were convicted to one-year suspended sentences under Article 301 for printing Dink's words that the killings of Armenians in 1915 was a genocide.\n\nIn 2008, Rahîm Er, a daily columnist of conservative democrat \"Turkiye\" daily newspaper was convicted under Article 301 for criticising the Court of Cassation of Turkey. Er was criticising the Court of Cassation due to the length of the trials, its heavy backlog, and the hidden resistance to the establishment of regional courts of appeals in Turkey. He was charged with insulting an institution of the Republic of Turkey by chief public prosecutor's office in Bakırköy. This prosecution was struck out by the dismissal of Mehmet Ali Şahin, then the minister of justice.\n\nIn December 2005 Joost Lagendijk, a member of the Dutch GreenLeft party and the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, chairman of the EU-Turkey Joint Parliamentary Committee, and a staunch supporter of Turkish EU membership, visited Turkey to attend the trial against Orhan Pamuk. In his speech he commented on the Şemdinli incident and criticized the Turkish military for seeking to maintain its political influence through the continuous guerrilla war with the PKK.\nGreater Jurists Union (), the same group that filed a complaint against Orhan Pamuk, filed charges against Joost Lagendijk for violating Article 301 by insulting the Turkish army. The prosecutor, however, declined to prosecute, referring to the Turkish constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as a judgement by the European Court of Human Rights concerning the interpretation of that Convention.\n\nMembers of the Strong Turkey Party organized a campaign of civil disobedience against the article called \"Try me too 301\" (). 301 members of the party knowingly violated the article 301 and filed complaints against themselves. The prosecutor refused to file charges.\n\nIn its short life the article has been heavily criticized, both in Turkey and outside. A criticism heard in Turkey, and also voiced by some outside, is that it has turned into a tool of the nationalist \"old guard\", who, so is claimed, use it to press charges against people of international renown, not to stifle dissenting opinions but with the aim of thwarting the admission process to the EU. Novelist Elif Şafak claims the Article has a chilling effect on free expression, notwithstanding its fourth clause. It is too early to tell how this is going to be interpreted in cassation (last-instance review) by the Court of Appeals.\nTurkey accepts the European Court of Human Rights' decisions as overriding higher court decision, and ratified international treaties as overriding national law.\n\nAmnesty International claims that \"Article 301 poses a direct threat to freedom of expression, as enshrined in Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) and in Article 10 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR).\"\n\nFollowing the murder of Hrant Dink, Turkish deputy prime minister and foreign minister Abdullah Gül declared, \"With its current state, there are certain problems with article 301. We see now that there are changes which must be made to this law.\"\n\nOn April 30, 2008, article 301 was amended by the Parliament of Turkey, with the following changes:\nPermission was refused by the justice ministry in the July 2008 case against İbrahim Tığ, the editor of the daily Bölge Haber. The governor of Zonguldak filed a complaint citing \"open denigration of the government\" (“T.C. Hükümetini Alenen Aşağılamak”) after Tığ wrote a column accusing the ruling Justice and Development Party of selling the country's assets though privatization. As of July 2008, six of the seven article 301 cases that have been considered by the ministry were rejected for prosecution.\n\nAccording to the Turkish legal system, international conventions on human rights automatically become part of the national legal order without additional transposition once they are ratified by the Parliament. International human rights instruments to which Turkey is party have to be taken into consideration by judges and prosecutors. Therefore, prosecutors are strongly encouraged to directly apply the landmark decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and particularly the Handyside v United Kingdom case. Furthermore, the statement of the suspect cannot be taken before the permission of the Minister of Justice in order not to discredit the suspect in the eyes of the public.\n\nIn 2011, the European Court of Human Rights decided that \"the scope of the terms under Article 301 of the Criminal Code, as interpreted by the judiciary, is too wide and vague and thus the provision constitutes a continuing threat to the exercise of the right to freedom of expression\" and \"that Article 301 of the Criminal Code does not meet the “quality of law” required by the Court’s settled case-law, since its unacceptably broad terms result in a lack of foreseeability as to its effects\", finding a violation of freedom of expression (Article 10 of ECHR) in the investigation against Mr Altuğ Taner Akçam, a historian writing about the Armenian genocide. Concerning the 2008 amendments, ECHR noted that \"despite the replacement of the term “Turkishness” by “the Turkish Nation”, there seems to be no change or major difference in the interpretation of these concepts because they have been understood in the same manner by the Court of Cassation\" (Para. 92).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1442483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1442483", "title": "Ashley Montagu Resolution", "text": "Ashley Montagu Resolution\n\nThe Ashley Montagu Resolution refers to the petition to the World Court to end the genital modification and mutilation of children worldwide.\n\nEndorsement of the petition also includes the 1989 \"Universal Declaration on Circumcision, Excision, and Incision\" which holds that medically unnecessary surgical circumcisions, excisions and incisions on male and female genitals constitute an \"act of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment\" within the terms of Article 5 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nThe original endorsers include Nobel Laureate in Physiology and Medicine Francis Crick and National Organization of Circumcision Information Resource Centers founder Marilyn Milos. The petition has also been signed by at least two Nobel Prize winners and Jonas Salk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41078583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41078583", "title": "BSIN", "text": "BSIN\n\nThe Brand Standard Identification Number (BSIN) is a 6-character alphanumeric unique identifier assigned by the Open Knowledge Foundation \n\nThe origins of BSIN come from the worldwide product repository of OKFN: To integrate a product, a brand must be assigned.\nThe OKFN project \"Open Product Data\" uses BSIN codes in its product repository.\nEach brand of the OKFN brand repository is given a unique BSIN.\nThe first version of the brand repository has been launched on the 20th of December 2013.\n\nThe BSIN code is composed if 6 alphanumeric characters. letters are uppercase and '0' and 'O' are excluded to avoid confusions.\nWhen a BSIN code is created, it can physically be destroyed or replaced. When it is deleted, its status becomes \"deleted\" and the reason of the deletion is always provided.\nThe objective is to ensure users of the reliability and the stability of the BSIN.\n\nThere are two types of brands: \n\nThe concept of \"owner\" will be used to gather brands belonging to big manufacturers such as Unilever, Pesico... \nThe second objective is to avoid confusion between the brand and the company belonging the brand. For example, The Coca-Cola company (owner) belongs Cola-Cola (brand), coca zero (brand)...\n"}
{"id": "7545952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7545952", "title": "Birthright citizenship in the United States", "text": "Birthright citizenship in the United States\n\nBirthright citizenship in the United States is acquired by virtue of the circumstances of birth. It contrasts with citizenship acquired in other ways, for example by naturalization. Pursuant to the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution and the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), U.S. citizenship is automatically granted to any person born within and subject to the jurisdiction of the United States (known as \"jus soli\"). This includes the territories of Puerto Rico, the Marianas (Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands), and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Birthright citizenship also applies to children born elsewhere in the world to U.S. citizens (with certain exceptions), known as \"jus sanguinis\".\n\nThe policy stems from the Citizenship Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, stating \"[a]ll persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside,\" and was meant to override the 1857 \"Dred Scott v. Sandford\" decision that denied African Americans citizenship. The application of birthright citizenship to children of undocumented immigrants remains controversial among right-wing politicians. The Pew Hispanic Center estimates that approximately 7.5% of all births in the U.S. (about 300,000 births per year) are to unauthorized immigrants. The Pew Hispanic Center also estimates that there are 4.5 million children who were born to unauthorized immigrants that received citizenship via birth in the United States; while the Migration Policy Institute estimates that there are 4.1 million children. Both estimates exclude anyone eighteen and older who might have benefited.\n\nCitizenship in the United States is a matter of federal law, governed by the United States Constitution.\n\nSince the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution on July 9, 1868, the citizenship of persons born in the United States has been controlled by its Citizenship Clause, which states: \"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.\"\n\nUnited States Federal law () defines who is a United States citizen from birth. The following are among those listed there as persons who shall be nationals and citizens of the United States at birth:\n\nThe 14th Amendment applies to incorporated territories, so people born in incorporated territories of the U.S. are automatically U.S. citizens at birth.\n\nThere are special provisions governing children born in some current and former U.S. territories or possessions, including Puerto Rico, the Panama Canal Zone, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands. For example, states that \"All persons born in Puerto Rico [between] April 11, 1899, and ... January 13, 1941 ... residing on January 13, 1941, in Puerto Rico ... [and] persons born in Puerto Rico on or after January 13, 1941, ... are citizens of the United States at birth.\"\n\nAccording to persons born (or found, and of unknown parentage, under the age of 5) in an outlying possession of the U.S. (which is defined by as American Samoa and Swains Island) are U.S. nationals but not citizens, unless otherwise provided in section 1401. The U.S. State Department publication titled \"Historical Background to Acquisition by Birth in U.S. Territories and Possessions\" explains the complexities of this topic.\n\nA child born in U.S. waters or airspace is a U.S. citizen by birth. See 8 FAM 301.1-4 (\"Birth in U.S. Internal Waters and Territorial Sea\"), 8 FAM 301.1-5 (\"What Is Birth in U.S. Airspace?\"), and 8 FAM 301.1-6 (\"Documenting Birth in U.S. Waters and U.S. Airspace\").\n\nUnder certain circumstances, children may acquire U.S. citizenship from their parents. The Naturalization Act of 1790 provided for birthright citizenship for children born out of U.S. jurisdiction to two citizen parents. In 1855, this was extended to children with citizen fathers and noncitizen mothers, and, in 1934, to children with citizen mothers and noncitizen fathers. From 1940 until 1978, a child born abroad who acquired U.S. citizenship at birth but had only one U.S. citizen parent had to fulfill a \"retention requirement\" of residing, or being physically present, in the United States or its outlying possessions for a certain number of years before reaching a specified age. Otherwise the child would not retain the U.S. citizenship (hence the name \"retention requirement\"). The retention requirement was changed several times, eliminated in 1978, and subsequently eliminated with retroactive effect in 1994.\n\nThe following conditions affect children born outside the U.S. and its outlying possessions to married parents (special conditions affect children born out of wedlock: see below):\n\nThere is an asymmetry in the way citizenship status of children born overseas to unmarried parents, only one of whom is a U.S. citizen, is handled.\n\nTitle paragraph (c) provides that children born abroad after December 24, 1952 to unmarried American mothers are U.S. citizens, as long as the mother has lived in the U.S. for a continuous period of at least one year at any time prior to the birth.\n\n\nBecause of this rule, unusual cases have arisen whereby children have been fathered by American men overseas from non-American women, brought back to the United States as babies without the mother, raised by the American father in the United States, and later held to be deportable as non-citizens in their 20s. The final element has taken an especially significant importance in these circumstances, as once the child has reached 18, the father is forever unable to establish paternity to deem his child a citizen.\n\nThis distinction between unwed American fathers and American mothers was constructed and reaffirmed by Congress out of concern that a flood of illegitimate Korean and Vietnamese children would later claim American citizenship as a result of their parentage by American servicemen overseas fighting wars in their countries. In many cases, American servicemen passing through in wartime may not have even learned they had fathered a child. In 2001, the Supreme Court, by 5–4 majority in \"Nguyen v. INS\", first established the constitutionality of this gender distinction.\n\nAccording to the Constitution of the United States only natural born citizens are eligible to serve as President of the United States or as Vice President. The text of the Constitution does not define what is meant by \"natural born\": in particular it does not specify whether there is any distinction to be made between persons whose citizenship is based on \"jus sanguinis\" (parentage) and those whose citizenship is based on \"jus soli\" (birthplace). As a result, controversies have arisen over the eligibility of a number of candidates for the office.\n\nThroughout the history of the United States, the fundamental legal principle governing citizenship has been that birth within the United States grants U.S. citizenship; although enslaved persons and children of enslaved mothers, under the principle of \"partus sequitur ventrem\", were excluded. The United States did not grant citizenship after the American Civil War to all former slaves until the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1866, which was subsequently confirmed by the Fourteenth Amendment. American Indian tribal members are not covered specifically by the constitutional guarantee. Those living in tribes on reservations were generally not considered citizens until passage of the Indian Citizenship Act of 1924, although by that time nearly two-thirds of American Indians were already citizens.\n\nBirthright citizenship, as with much United States law, has its roots in English common law. \"Calvin's Case\", 77 Eng. Rep. 377 (1608), was particularly important as it established that, under English common law, \"a person's status was vested at birth, and based upon place of birth—a person born within the king's dominion owed allegiance to the sovereign, and in turn, was entitled to the king's protection.\"\nThis same principle was accepted by the United States as being \"ancient and fundamental,\" i.e., well-established common law, as stated by the Supreme Court in 1898: \"the Fourteenth Amendment affirms the ancient and fundamental rule of citizenship by birth within the territory, in the allegiance and under the protection of the country, including all children here born of resident aliens, with the exceptions or qualifications (as old as the rule itself) of children of foreign sovereigns or their ministers, or born on foreign public ships, or of enemies within and during a hostile occupation of part of our territory, and with the single additional exception of children of members of the Indian tribes owing direct allegiance to their several tribes.\" United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U.S. 649 (1898).\n\nThe Naturalization Act of 1790 () provided the first rules to be followed by the United States in the granting of national citizenship. Since that time, laws concerning immigration and naturalization in the United States have undergone a number of revisions.\n\nJustice Roger B. Taney in the majority opinion in \"Dred Scott v. Sandford\" held that African Americans, whether slave or free, had never been and could never become citizens of the United States, as they were excluded by the Constitution. The political scientist Stuart Streichler writes that Taney's decision was based on \"a skewed reading of history.\". Justice Benjamin R. Curtis in his dissent showed that under the Articles of Confederation, free blacks had already been considered citizens in five states and carried that citizenship forward when the Constitution was ratified.\n\nJustice Curtis wrote:\n\nThe first section of the second article of the Constitution uses the language \"a natural-born citizen.\" It thus assumes that citizenship may be acquired by birth. Undoubtedly, this language of the Constitution was used in reference to that principle of public law, well understood in the history of this country at the time of the adoption of the Constitution, which referred Citizenship to the place of birth. At the Declaration of Independence, and ever since, the received general doctrine has been, in conformity with the common law, that free persons born within either of the colonies, were the subjects of the King; that by the Declaration of independence, and the consequent acquisition of sovereignty by the several States, all such persons ceased to be subjects, and became citizens of the several States ... The Constitution has left to the States the determination what person, born within their respective limits, shall acquire by birth citizenship of the United States ...\n\nIn 1862, Secretary of the Treasury Salmon P. Chase sent a question to Attorney General Edward Bates asking whether or not \"colored men\" can be citizens of the United States. Attorney General Bates responded on November 29, 1862, with a 27-page opinion concluding, \"I conclude that the \"free man of color\", mentioned in your letter, if born in the \"United States\", is a citizen of the United States, ...\" [italics in original] In the course of that opinion, Bates commented at some length on the nature of citizenship, and wrote,\n\nThe Civil Rights Act of 1866 declared: \"... all persons born in the United States, and not subject to any foreign power, excluding Indians not taxed, are hereby declared to be citizens of the United States.\" (\"Indians not taxed\" referred to tribal members living on reservations.)\n\nSince the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution on July 9, 1868, citizenship of persons born in the United States has been controlled by its Citizenship Clause, which states: \"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.\"\n\nThis act, a companion piece to the Fourteenth Amendment, was approved on July 27, 1868.\n\nThe Expatriation Act of 1868 led President Ulysses S. Grant to write in 1873, that the United States had \"led the way in the overthrow of the feudal doctrine of perpetual allegiance\".\n\nEdward J. Erler of California State University, San Bernardino, and Brook Thomas of the University of California at Irvine, have argued that this Act was an explicit rejection of birth-right citizenship as the ground for American citizenship, basing that argument on the debate that surrounded the passage of this act. Professor Garrett Epps of the University of Baltimore disagrees: \"The Expatriation Act is not, as Erler imagines, 'a necessary companion piece to the citizenship clause.' In fact, there is no relationship at all between the two. The act was written in a different year, by different authors, on a different subject, and in a different Congress, than the Fourteenth Amendment.\"\n\nIn 1873, The Attorney General of the United States published the following legal opinion concerning the Fourteenth Amendment:\n\nThe word 'jurisdiction' must be understood to mean absolute and complete jurisdiction, such as the United States had over its citizens before the adoption of this amendment. Aliens, among whom are persons born here and naturalized abroad, dwelling or being in this country, are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States only to a limited extent. Political and military rights and duties do not pertain to them.\nThe Attorney General clarified this remark as follows:\n\nThe child born of alien parents in the United States is held to be a citizen thereof, and to be subject to duties with regard to this country which do not attach to the father. The same principle on which such children are held by us to be citizens of the United States, and to be subject to duties to this country, applies to the children of American fathers born without the jurisdiction of the United States, and entitles the country within whose jurisdiction they are born to claim them as citizen and to subject them to duties to it. Such children are born to a double character: the citizenship of the father is that of the child so far as the laws of the country of which the father is a citizen are concerned, and within the jurisdiction of that country; but the child, from the circumstances of his birth, may acquire rights and owes another fealty besides that which attaches to the father.\n\nThe Indian Citizenship Act of 1924 provided \"That all noncitizen Indians born within the territorial limits of the United States be, and they are hereby, declared to be citizens of the United States\". This same provision (slightly reworded) is contained in present-day law as section 301(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 (8 USC 1401(b)).\n\nIn the case of \"Inglis v. Trustees of Sailor's Snug Harbor\", the Supreme Court decided the question of the disposition of the estate of a man born in New York State in 1776. The Supreme Court resolved complicated questions of how citizenship had been derived during the Revolutionary War. The court found that the jus soli is so consistent in American Law as to automatically grant American citizenship to children born in New York City between the Declaration of Independence and the Landing at Kip's Bay in 1776, but not to children born in New York during the British occupation that followed.\n\nNothing is better settled at the common law than the doctrine that the children even of aliens born in a country while the parents are resident there under the protection of the government and owing a temporary allegiance thereto are subjects by birth.\n\nIn the \"Slaughter-House Cases\", —a civil rights case not dealing specifically with birthright citizenship—a majority of the Supreme Court mentioned in passing that \"the phrase 'subject to its jurisdiction' was intended to exclude from its operation children of ministers, consuls, and citizens or subjects of foreign States born within the United States\".\n\nIn \"Elk v. Wilkins\", , the Supreme Court denied the birthright citizenship claim of an American Indian. The court ruled that being born in the territory of the United States is not sufficient for citizenship; those who wish to claim citizenship by birth must be born subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. The court's majority held that the children of Native Americans were\n\nThus, Native Americans who voluntarily quit their tribes would not automatically become U.S. citizens. Native Americans were granted U.S. citizenship by Congress half a century later in the Indian Citizenship Act of 1924, which rendered the \"Elk\" decision obsolete.\n\nIn the case of \"United States v. Wong Kim Ark\", , the Supreme Court was presented with the following question: \n\nThe decision centered upon the 14th Amendment's reference to \"jurisdiction,\" and concluded:\n\nSince the majority of Canadians live in the relatively thin strip of land close to the long border with the United States, Canadians in need of urgent medical care are occasionally transferred to nearby American medical centers. In some circumstances, Canadian mothers facing high-risk births have given birth in American hospitals. Such children are American citizens by birthright.\n\nIn these circumstances, Canadian laws are similar to those of the United States. Babies born in Canada of American parents are also Canadian citizens by birthright.\n\nIn both of these situations, the birthright citizenship is passed on to their children, born decades later. In some cases, births in American hospital (sometimes called \"border babies\") have resulted in persons who lived for much of their lives in Canada, but not knowing that they had never had official Canadian citizenship. This group of people is sometimes called Lost Canadians.\n\nAnother problem arises where a Canadian child, born to Canadian parents in a U.S. border hospital, is treated as a dual citizen and added to the United States tax base on this basis despite having never lived, worked nor studied in that nation. While Canadian income tax is only payable by those who reside or earn income in Canada, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service taxes its citizens worldwide. Campobello Island is particularly problematic as, while legally part of New Brunswick, the only year-round fixed link off the island leads not to Canada but to Lubec, Maine—leading to many Canadians whose families have lived on Campobello for generations not being able to claim to be born in Canada.\n\nDuring the original debate over the 14th Amendment Senator Jacob M. Howard of Michigan—the sponsor of the Amendment, though the Citizenship Clause was written by Senator Wadw—described the clause as having the same content, despite different wording, as the earlier Civil Rights Act of 1866, namely, that it excludes American Indians who maintain their tribal ties and \"persons born in the United States who are foreigners, aliens, who belong to the families of ambassadors or foreign ministers.\" Others also agreed that the children of ambassadors and foreign ministers were to be excluded. Concerning the children born in the United States to parents who are not U.S. citizens (and not foreign diplomats), three senators, including Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lyman Trumbull, the author of the Civil Rights Act, as well as President Andrew Johnson, agreed, asserting that both the Civil Rights Act and the 14th Amendment would confer citizenship on them at birth, and no senator offered a contrary opinion.\n\nMost of the debate on this section of the Amendment centered on whether the wording in the Civil Rights Act or Howard's proposal more effectively excluded Aboriginal Americans on reservations and in U.S. territories from citizenship. Senator James R. Doolittle of Wisconsin asserted that all Native Americans are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, so that the phrase \"Indians not taxed\" would be preferable, but Trumbull and Howard disputed this, arguing that the U.S. government did not have full jurisdiction over Native American tribes, which govern themselves and make treaties with the United States.\n\nEdward Erler argued that since the \"Wong Kim Ark\" case dealt with someone whose parents were in the United States legally, there is no valid basis under the 14th Amendment for the practice of granting citizenship to U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants: \"Even if the logic is that Wong Kim Ark became a citizen by birth with the permission of the United States when it admitted his parents to the country, no such permission has been given to those who enter illegally.\" Akhil Amar responded to Erler, \"I'm not sure that his Pandora's box can be limited to children of illegal aliens. It is a thin edge of a very big and dangerous wedge that I think runs squarely into \"Wong Kim Ark\".\" Similarly, Angelo Ancheta criticized the \"consent-based theory of citizenship\", saying that \"The Fourteenth Amendment was designed to ensure citizenship for 'all persons' born in the United States, particularly in response to ambiguities in legal status that attached to being the descendants of an outsider class, namely slaves.\"\n\nIn the late 1990s opposition arose over the longstanding practice of granting automatic citizenship on a \"jus soli\" basis. Fears grew in some circles that the existing law encouraged parents-to-be to come to the United States to have children (sometimes called birth tourism) in order to improve the parents' chances of attaining legal residency themselves. Some media correspondents and public leaders, including former congressman Virgil Goode, have controversially dubbed this the \"anchor baby\" situation, and politicians have proposed legislation on this basis that might alter how birthright citizenship is awarded.\n\nA Pew Hispanic Center analysis of Census Bureau data determined that about 8 percent of children born in the United States in 2008—about 340,000—were offspring of \"unauthorized immigrants\". In total, about four million American-born children of unauthorized immigrant parents resided in this country in 2009, along with about 1.1 million foreign-born children of unauthorized immigrant parents. \n\nThe Center for Immigration Studies—a think tank which favors stricter controls on immigration—claims that between 300,000 and 400,000 children are born each year to illegal immigrants in the U.S.\n\nBills have been introduced from time to time in Congress which have sought to declare American-born children of foreign nationals not to be \"subject to the jurisdiction of the United States\", and thus not entitled to citizenship via the 14th Amendment, unless at least one parent was an American citizen or a lawful permanent resident.\n\nBoth Democrats and Republicans have introduced legislation aimed at narrowing the application of the Citizenship Clause. In 1993, Sen. Harry Reid (D-Nev.) introduced legislation that would limit birthright citizenship to the children of U.S. citizens and legally resident aliens, and similar bills have been introduced by other legislators in every Congress since. For example, U.S. Representative Nathan Deal, a Republican from the State of Georgia, introduced the \"Citizenship Reform Act of 2005\" (H.R. 698) in the 109th Congress, the \"Birthright Citizenship Act of 2007\" (H.R. 1940) in the 110th Congress, and the \"Birthright Citizenship Act of 2009\" (H.R. 1868) in the 111th Congress. However, neither these nor any similar bill has ever been passed by Congress.\n\nSome legislators, unsure whether such Acts of Congress would survive court challenges, have proposed that the Citizenship Clause be changed through a constitutional amendment. Senate Joint Resolution 6, introduced on January 16, 2009 in the 111th Congress, proposes such an amendment; however, neither this, nor any other proposed amendment, has yet been approved by Congress for ratification by the states.\n\nPresident Donald Trump said on October 30, 2018 that he intends to remove, by means of an executive order, the right of citizenship to people born in the U.S. to foreign nationals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24259022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24259022", "title": "British Academy of Songwriters, Composers, and Authors", "text": "British Academy of Songwriters, Composers, and Authors\n\nThe British Academy of Songwriters, Composers, and Authors (BASCA) is one of the largest professional associations for music writers in Europe and exists to support, protect and campaign for the interests of songwriters, lyricists and composers. It represents music writers in all genres, from song writing to media, contemporary classical to jazz and has approximately 2000 members.\n\nBASCA exists to support and protect the professional interests of songwriters, lyricists and composers of all genres of music and to celebrate and encourage excellence in British music writing.\n\nThe Composers Guild of Great Britain was founded in 1944 to represent composers of classical music, with Ralph Vaughan Williams elected as first President. The Songwriters' Guild of Great Britain, later known as The British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors was founded in 1947 by Ivor Novello, Sir Alan Herbert, Eric Coates, Haydn Wood, Richard Addinsell and others for the encouragement and protection of British popular music, with Eric Maschwitz acting as the first Vice Chair, and Chairman in 1948, and again between 1954 and 1958. The Association of Professional Composers was founded in 1976 by George Fenton to represent composers of film and TV music. In 1958 the Composers' Guild of Great Britain began publishing the journal \"Composer\", and also published a number of catalogs of available works. In 1967 the organisation, under the direction of Ruth Gipps, established the British Music Information Centre.\n\nIn 1999 The Association of Professional Composers (APC) and the Composers' Guild of Great Britain (CGGB) merged with the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors to provide a single, more powerful amalgamated organisation to represent its membership. The organization's current name was adopted in March, 2009. Sir Tim Rice was elected first president, and Guy Fletcher and David Stoll served as joint chairs of a nine-member Board of Directors. Three executive committees were established to administer Pop and Theatrical Music, Concert Music and Media. BASCA now has four genre committees representing Songwriters, Classical, Jazz and Media composers.\n\nMembers of BASCA include emerging songwriters and the United Kingdom's \"most experienced and successful writers.\" A partial list of the past and present members includes David Arnold (fellow), Harrison Birtwistle, Peter Maxwell Davies (fellow), George Fenton, Guy Garvey, Howard Goodall, Annie Lennox (fellow), Elton John (fellow), and Paul McCartney (fellow). Rolling Stones members Mick Jagger, Keith Richards are members, as are Sting, Pete Townshend, Imogen Heap, David Gilmour, George Michael, Alex Turner, Benson Taylor, Chris Martin, Lynsey de Paul, Cathy Dennis, Kate Bush, Mika, Evelyn Glennie, Gary Barlow, Chrissie Hynde, Sharleen Spiteri, and Thom Yorke.\n\nBASCA is a member of UK Music, an umbrella organisation which represents the collective interests of the production side of UK's commercial music industry: artists, musicians, songwriters, composers, record labels, artist managers, music publishers, studio producers and music collecting societies.\n\nSongwriter Crispin Hunt became the chairman of BASCA in July 2016.\n\nIn 1955 The Songwriters' Guild of Great Britain established the Ivor Novello Awards to honour excellence in British music writing. The award is considered to be \"prestigious.\" In 1974 the Academy established the Gold Badge Awards for individuals who make outstanding contributions to Britain’s music and entertainment industry, sponsored annually by PRS for Music. The organization also presents the British Composer Awards for excellence in classical and jazz music, also sponsored by the PRS for Music and in association with BBC Radio 3.\n\nThe Beatles have won 15 Ivor Novello Awards from the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors as well as 7 Grammy Awards. See also List of awards and nominations received by The Beatles.\n\nBASCA established the fellowship in 1999, and it was first awarded in 2000. Fellows are:\n\nBASCA exists to support and protect the professional interests of songwriters, lyricists and composers of all genres of music and to celebrate and encourage excellence in British music writing.\n\nIts aims and objectives are:\n\nThe organization provides \"pro bono\" legal services, insurance cover, model contracts, a tax helpline, professional development seminars and master-classes, online promotion, a collaboration service, networking opportunities, publications and newsletters.\n\nCentral to BASCA’s campaigning agenda currently is the digital royalties campaign: The Day The Music Died. Through this vehicle, the organisation advocates for a fairer environment for songwriters and composers by addressing the major problem areas threatening the value and security of creators’ rights.\n\nThe campaign is calling for:\n\n• A 50/50 split in gross royalty income for writers from digital services (as in broadcasting).\n\n• A higher proportion of advertising income.\n\n• The removal of auto predictive fill in of illegal content with internet search engines (e.g.: Google searches and alerts).\n\n• The removal of safe harbour for active content platforms such asYouTube.\n\n• More transparency around non-disclosure agreements for writers so they clearly understand how and what they are being paid.\n\n2015 saw a big victory for the UK Music industry after BASCA, the Musician’s Union and UK Music won an important copyright Judicial Review in the High Court. Through this procedure, they challenged the Government’s decision to introduce a private copying exception into UK copyright law without providing fair compensation to rights to rights holders (as required by EU law).\n\nThroughout the BBC's charter renewal process, BASCA focussed on speaking out about protecting the BBC (and its music services) from cuts. It made three formal submissions to government on the BBC including the DCMS public consultation. Many of BASCA’s members publicly supported UK Music’s #letitbeeb campaign, led by BASCA Fellow Sir Paul McCartney and gathered more than 10K signatures.\n\nBASCA has also responded to many European Commission’s consultations over the past few years including an investigation into the ‘Regulatory Environment for Platforms, Online Intermediaries, Data and Cloud Computing and the Collaborative Economy’. It remains a vital part of ECSA the European Composer and Songwriter Alliance.\n\nBASCA is also involved in the process to select the United Kingdom's entry in the Eurovision Song Contest.\n\n"}
{"id": "32070619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32070619", "title": "British Supreme Court for China", "text": "British Supreme Court for China\n\nThe British Supreme Court for China (originally the British Supreme Court for China and Japan) was a court established in the Shanghai International Settlement to try cases against British subjects in China, Japan and Korea under the principles of extraterritoriality.\n\nThe court also heard appeals from consular courts in China, Japan and Korea and from the British Court for Japan which was established in 1879.\n\nBritain had acquired extraterritorial rights in China under the Treaty of Nanking in 1842. The United States obtained further extraterritorial rights under the Treaty of Wanghsia, which Britain was able to take advantage of under the Most Favoured Nation provision in a Supplemental Agreement to the Treaty of Nanking. Subsequently, under the Treaty of Tientsin, these rights were provided for directly in a Sino-British Treaty. In 1858, Britain obtained extraterritorial rights in Japan under the Anglo-Japanese Treaty of Amity and Commerce.\n\nThe Treaty of Tientsin specified how such jurisdiction was to be governed:\n\n\nJurisdiction in the first instance, as well as in matters involving British defendants, was vested in the British consular courts, while in the Shanghai International Settlement matters relating to criminal acts and debt enforcement involving Chinese defendants were vested in a \"Mixed Court\" (\"\", later known as ). Matters relating to complaints were not considered to be judicial.\n\nAppeals from British consular courts initially went to the Supreme Court of Hong Kong, which gradually became unpopular as British economic activity rose in the Yangtse valley. The establishment of the British Supreme Court for China and Japan was not challenged from any official quarter in China, as it was seen to be not only a way to more efficiently try matters close to the scene, but also to allow Qing officials to exert direct pressure on British authorities when they were not satisfied with a sentence.\n\nIn 1879, reflecting the growing British commercial interests in Japan and the inconvenience of bringing a first instance action in Shanghai, the British Court for Japan was established in Kanagawa (now part of Yokohama) with first instance jurisdiction in Japan. The Court for Japan also heard appeals from consular courts in Japan. Appeals from the Court for Japan were heard by the Chief Justice and Judge of the Supreme Court in Shanghai.\n\nThe United Kingdom later obtained extraterritoriality in Korea as a result of the United Kingdom–Korea Treaty of 1883. The court's jurisdiction was subsequently extended there in 1884, but the court's name remained unchanged.\n\nUnder the terms of the Anglo-Japanese Treaty of Commerce and Navigation of 1894, Britain gave up extraterritorial rights in Japan with effect from July 1899. The court was renamed the British Supreme Court for China and Corea in 1900. The Court for Japan officially heard its last case, which had been filed before the end of July 1899, in early 1900.\n\nUnder the Japan-Korea Treaty of 1910, Korea was annexed by Japan and Britain automatically lost extraterritorial rights in Korea. The court was, in January 1911, renamed the \"British Supreme Court for China\".\n\nIn the 1920s there were negotiations with China to give up extraterritorial rights. In 1930 and 1931, after the Kuomingtang consolidated their rule in China, Britain reached an agreement in principle with the Chinese Foreign Minister to give up extraterritorial rights. The Japanese invasion of Manchuria in 1931 and then Northern China in 1937 put the issue on the backburner. The Court effectively ceased to function on 8 December 1941 when the Japanese Navy occupied the court premises at the start of the Pacific War. After 9 months internship, either at home or in the Cathay Hotel (now the Peace Hotel), the judges and British staff of the court were evacuated to Britain aboard the SS \"Narkunda\".\n\nIt was, however, only in 1943 during World War II that Britain gave up extraterritorial rights in China under the British-Chinese Treaty for the Relinquishment of Extra-Territorial Rights in China signed on 11 January 1943 and which came into force on 20 May 1943. The United States gave up its extraterritorial rights at the same time. The court therefore had had jurisdiction over British subjects in Korea for 27 years; in Japan for 34 years and in China for 78 years when the court was finally dissolved in 1943.\n\nIn Shanghai, the court was housed in the British Consulate compound. From 1865 to 1871 cases were heard using the rooms that had been used by the consular court. In 1871 a dedicated court building to stand at the back of the consulate building facing on to Yuanmingyuan Road was opened. In 1913 the building was expanded to add a Police Court (on the ground floor) and a second court (on the first floor) immediately south of the main court room. Rooms of similar size were built to the north for consular offices. The building still stands to this day and can be seen from Yuanmingyuan Road.\n\nIn Yokohama, the British Court for Japan sat in the British Consulate building. The building was destroyed in the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake.\n\nIn other cities, when the judges of the court went on circuit to outlying cities they would generally sit in courts in British consulate buildings but on occasions would use other premises where important cases of great public interest were being heard.\n\nThe Court applied the rules of English law and equity to matters in difference concerning:\n\nBy 1904, such jurisdiction had been expanded so that it covered:\n\nIn China, the Court deferred to the Hong Kong Supreme Court in several respects, relinquishing jurisdiction over cases involving British subjects where the matter in question occurred:\n\nor where an offence was committed on a British ship by a British subject in Hong Kong\n\nThe Court could also decide to refer certain criminal cases involving British subjects to the Hong Kong Court, or to the Sessions Court at Mandalay. Referred cases were tried under English law, instead of Hong Kong law or Indian law.\n\nIn 1916, the companies ordinances enacted in Hong Kong were extended to China, and companies that were constituted as a \"China Company\" thereunder were placed under the jurisdiction of the Court.\n\nIn 1920, that part of China that formed part of the British consular district of Kashgar was withdrawn from the Supreme Court's jurisdiction. From that time onwards to 1943, extraterritorial jurisdiction in that region was exercised by the High Court of the Punjab, and Indian law applied.\n\nEffective 26 April 1927, the Court ceased to have criminal jurisdiction over persons subject to military law in the British and Indian military forces, while on active service, except if the commander of the forces consented to the court having jurisdiction.\n\nThe court tried cases of all descriptions, all the time applying English law in China, Japan and Korea, including murder trials before juries, divorce cases, commercial disputes, trademark and passing off claims, habeas corpus applications and cases of petty theft. Some of its cases have been posted online by Macquarie University. Official case reports can be found in the \"North China Herald\" which was also the \"Supreme Court and Consular Gazette\". Cases from other consular courts in Shanghai were also published in the \"North China Herald\".\n\nSome famous cases included:\n\nIn its 78 years of existence from 1865 to 1943 the court had 15 full-time judges, including the first Chief Judge, Sir Edmund Hornby, Egyptologist Charles Wycliffe Goodwin; Frederick Bourne, a recipient of thanks from the U.S. President for services rendered; an aristocrat, Havilland de Sausmarez for whom the baronetage of the De Sausmarez Baronets was created; and a recipient of a decoration from the King of Siam, Skinner Turner. The judges came from a variety of places, including from England, Wales, Scotland, Ireland, the British Virgin Islands and South Africa.\n\nThroughout its existence the court had two permanent judges at any one time. From 1865 to 1878 and 1905 to 1943 the senior judge was titled Judge and the junior judge's title was Assistant Judge. Between 1878 and 1905 the senior judge was titled Chief Justice and the junior judge's title was Judge.\n\nIn 1878, the position of Crown Advocate was created, being similar to the position of an Attorney General in a colony. The Crown Advocate was not a full-time position in the Foreign Office, but the officeholder received payment for performing his duties. He was allowed to accept cases from private clients that did not conflict with his public role. The 6 gentlemen who served in this office were:\n\nHiram Parkes Wilkinson was the son of Hiram Shaw Wilkinson. Together they served as Crown Advocate for a total of 44 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4309243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4309243", "title": "Celle Hole", "text": "Celle Hole\n\nCelle Hole () was a breach in the outer wall of the prison of Celle, Germany. First used on July 25, 1978, the name was part of a campaign by one of the West German secret services (Landesbehörde für Verfassungsschutz) and the GSG 9 in an attempt to lay blame on the Red Army Faction, West Germany's most active and prominent left-wing terrorist group. However, the incident was revealed in 1986 to be a plot by the government, a False flag operation, much to the embarrassment of the government. The Verfassungsschutz used the name 'Operation Fire Magic' ().\n\nThe secret services used a stolen Mercedes SL, driven by two criminals named Klaus-Dieter Loudil and Manfred Berger, who were recruited by the secret services. In the car were forged passports, one passport with a photograph of Sigurd Debus. Serial numbers of the passports showed that they were stolen from German authorities. Mr. Debus was an inmate in the Celle prison. He was considered as a Red Army Faction terrorist suspect. Some tools to be used for a prison escape attempt were brought secretly to Mr. Debus' prison cell by the secret services.\nThe action should have had taken place one night earlier when twelve secret service officers, one GSG 9 demolition squad officer and Jürgen Wiehe, a civil servant in the ministry of interior of the state of Lower Saxony (Niedersachsen) waited for the right moment to detonate the bomb on July 24. But they had to interrupt the action since two lovers coming from the nearby funfair entered the danger area. So the action was deferred.\n\nOn July 25, 1978 at 2.54 a.m. the bomb was detonated at the outer prison wall, but caused minor damage only. No inmate was able to escape. The Mercedes was caught later in Salzgitter (80 km away) in a police road block, the driver escaped. The false passports and some ammunition was found in the car.\n\nIn Celle, a 1.5 square meter hole, named the Celle hole (Celler Loch), was left in the outer prison wall. A handgun, model Walther PPK 7.65, which was the official pistol of one of the secret service officers, as well as a rubber dinghy, were found. Celle prison is situated close to the bank of river Aller. After the detonation, Mr. Debus' conditions of detention were aggravated \"for security reasons\". The secret service had planted escape tools into Debus' cell, which were found in the search after the attack, and was supposed to prove Debus' participation. Hence, the detainee started a hunger strike as a protest against this. Sigurd Debus died on April 16, 1981 shortly before the date of his discharge from prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "1867894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1867894", "title": "Certified wood", "text": "Certified wood\n\nCertified wood and paper products come from responsibly managed forests – as defined by a particular standard. With third-party forest certification, an independent organization develops standards of good forest management, and independent auditors issue certificates to forest operations that comply with those standards.\n\nForest certification programs typically require that forest management practices conform to existing laws. Other basic requirements or characteristics of forest certification programs include:\n\nBasic requirements of credible forest certification programs include:\n\nToday there are more than 50 certification programs worldwide addressing the many types of forests and tenures around the world. The two largest international forest certification programs are the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC).\n\nThe PEFC is the largest certification framework in terms of forest area, with approximately two-thirds of the total certified area. The FSC program is the fastest growing.\n\nThird-party forest certification was pioneered in the early 1990s by the FSC, a collaboration between environmental NGOs, forest product companies and social interests. Competing systems quickly emerged throughout the world. Some commentators, including Jared Diamond, have suggested that many competing standards were set up by logging companies specifically aiming to confuse consumers with less rigorously enforced but similarly named competing standards.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, there are a number of forest certification programs. Three of these programs are endorsed by the PEFC. They are the American Tree Farm System (ATFS), the Canadian Standards Association’s Sustainable Forest Management Standard and the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) Program. ATFS is applicable only in the United States; the Canadian Standards Association SFM Standard is applicable only in Canada. SFI is applicable to both the United States and Canada. The FSC, program is applied throughout North America. SFI is the world’s largest regional forest certification program in terms of total certified forest area[1].\n\nThe National Association of State Foresters in the USA passed a resolution in 2008 that supports \"all\" of the forest certification systems used in the USA and recognized the value of their differences: “... the ATFS, FSC, and SFI systems include the fundamental elements of credibility and make positive contributions to forest sustainability... No certification program can credibly claim to be ‘best’, and no certification program that promotes itself as the only certification option can maintain credibility. Forest ecosystems are complex and a simplistic ‘one size fits all’ approach to certification cannot address all sustainability needs.”.\n\nThe Canadian Council of Forest Ministers issued a statement in 2008 on forest certification standards in Canada, which said: “In Canada, each jurisdiction’s forest laws, policies and administrative requirements comprise an framework that fully characterizes what sustainable forest management (SFM) means in that jurisdiction, and what actions may take place on public and/or private forest land. Governments in Canada support third-party forest certification as a tool to demonstrate the rigor of Canada’s forest management laws, and to document the country’s world-class sustainable forest management record. The forest management standards of the Canadian Standards Association (CSA), the FSC and the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) are all used in Canada. Governments in Canada accept that these standards demonstrate, and promote the sustainability of forest management practices in Canada.” \n\nChain of Custody certification tracks the certified material through the production process – from the forest to the consumer, including all successive stages of processing, transformation, manufacturing and distribution. It also provides evidence that certified material in a certified product originates from certified forests.\n\nThe United Nations reports that between January 2009 and May 2010, the total number of PEFC and FSC chain-of-custody certificates issued worldwide increased by 88% for a total of 23,717 certificates (this does not include SFI certificates).\n\nForest certification is a voluntary process. About 10% of the world’s forest under at least one certification program. Customers that choose to buy certified products are supporting land managers, land owners and forest product companies that have made a commitment to meeting the standards of forest certification.\n\nThird-party forest certification is a useful tool for those seeking to purchase paper and wood products that come from forests that are well-managed and use materials that are legally harvested. Incorporating third-party certification into forest product buying practices can be a centerpiece for responsible wood and paper purchasing policies that include factors such as the protection of sensitive forest values, thoughtful material selection and efficient use of products.\n\nThe 2009-2010 United Nations Market Review reported that companies that produced or traded in certified forest products often had a market advantage during the 2008-2009 recession because, in a buyers’ market, buyers could be more selective in choosing their sources of supply. The report cites four demand drivers for certification:\n\nThe World Resources Institute, in partnership with the Environmental Investigation Agency, released a fact sheet designed to answer some of the frequently asked questions about the Lacey Act, which was amended in 2008 to ban commerce in illegally sourced plants and their products—including timber, wood, and paper products. The fact sheet says forest certification is a very good approach for demonstrating due care by showing government and customers that a company has taken proactive steps to eliminate illegal wood or plant material from its supply chain. Certification does not relieve importers of the requirement to submit appropriate import declaration information to U.S. government agencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1807756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1807756", "title": "Choice of law", "text": "Choice of law\n\nChoice of law is a procedural stage in the litigation of a case involving the conflict of laws when it is necessary to reconcile the differences between the laws of different legal jurisdictions, such as sovereign states, federated states (as in the US), or provinces. The outcome of this process is potentially to require the courts of one jurisdiction to apply the law of a different jurisdiction in lawsuits arising from, say, family law, tort or contract. The law which is applied is sometimes referred to as the \"proper law.\" Dépeçage is an issue within choice of law.\n\n\nThe \"traditional approach\" looks to territorial factors, e.g. the domicile or nationality of the parties, where the components comprising each cause of action occurred, where any relevant assets, whether movable or immovable, are located, etc., and chooses the law or laws that have the greatest connection to the cause(s) of action. Even though this is a very flexible system, there has been some reluctance to apply it and various \"escape devices\" have developed, which allow courts to apply their local laws (the \"lex fori\") even though the disputed events took place in a different jurisdiction. The parties themselves may plead the case either to avoid invoking a foreign law or agree to the choice of law, assuming that the judge will not of his or her own motion go behind the pleadings. Their motive will be pragmatic. Full-scale conflict cases take longer and cost more to litigate. However, the courts in some states are predisposed to prefer the \"lex fori\" wherever possible. This may reflect the belief that the interests of justice will be better served if the judges apply the law with which they are most familiar, or it may reflect a more general parochialism in systems not accustomed to considering extraterritorial principles of law. One of the most common judicial strategies is to skew the characterization process. By determining that a claim is one involving a contract instead of tort, or a question of family law instead of a testamentary issue, the Court can change the choice of law rules. For example, if an employee is hired by an employer in State A, is injured due to the employer's negligence in State B, and files a lawsuit to recover for the injury in State A, the court in State A might look to the employment contract to see if it contained a clause that governed the employer's duty of care with respect to the employee. If so, the court may be able characterize the claim as a breach of the contract, instead of a tort, and apply the law of the State A either because it was the place where the contract was made (the \"lex loci contractus\") or, if it were the place where the wage or salary was to be paid, where the contract was intended to be performed (the \"lex loci solutionis\").\n\nIn this context, since the 1960s, the courts in the United States began developing a number of new approaches, as well as new escape devices. This reflects the number of different laws that might be relevant in any given case before an American court. There is significant interstate trade and social mobility, and with the laws of each state of the Union representing a possible opportunity for conflict, it was necessary to produce a coherent system that could be applied in the courts of all fifty states.\n\nTo limit the damage that would result from forum shopping, it is desirable that the same law is applied to achieve the same result no matter where the case is litigated. The system of renvoi, which literally means \"send back\", is an attempt to achieve that end.\n\nThe traditional approach is based on the idea that the territorial sovereignty of states must be respected. For example, when an event happens in a state that gives rise to a lawsuit - if two parties are involved in an automobile accident, for example - that state in which the accident occurred provides the parties with certain \"vested rights\". These rights include such things as the ability of a plaintiff to file a lawsuit, the imposition of a statute of limitations to prevent a defendant from being subjected to a lawsuit after too much time has passed, limitations on recovery, and specified burdens of evidence. These so-called \"vested rights\" compete with the policy claims of other states for their laws to be applied. What follows is a generalised summary of the rules. The approach in the U.S. is rather different (see Conflict of laws in the United States).\n\nStatus is relevant for a wide array of issues. Self-evidently, unless the proposed litigant has legal personality, there will be no jurisdiction. It will also be relevant to immigration, entitlement to social security and similar benefits, family law, contract, etc. The choice of law rule, the law of the domicile (\"lex domicilii\") if the forum is common law or law of nationality (\"lex patriae\") or habitual residence if the forum is civil law, applies to determine all question of status and its legal attributes. The \"lex fori\" determines the domicile, nationality or habitual residence, and applies that law to establish an in rem set of rights and capacities. Thus, under some laws, the status of illegitimate affects the rights of inheritance in the case of an intestacy, etc. As to corporations, the choice of law rule is the law of incorporation (the \"lex incorporationis\") for all matters of capacity, validity, shareholders' rights, etc.\n\nThe choice of law rules for contracts are more complicated than the law affecting other obligations because they depend on the express or implied intentions of the parties and their personal circumstances. For example, questions as to whether a contract is valid may depend on the capacity of the parties to enter into a contract. This could be decided by reference to the \"lex domicilii\", \"lex patriae\" or habitual residence of the parties, or for policy reasons, by reference to the \"lex loci contractus\" (where the contract was made). But, if the contract was made electronically, where the contract was actually made must first be decided either by the \"lex fori\" or the putative proper law depending on the forum rules. There may also be problems if the parties selected the place where the contract was made in the hope of evading the operation of some mandatory provisions in another relevant law.\n\nOn the other hand, deciding matters relating to \"performance\" will usually depend on the \"lex loci solutionis\". Another unique characteristic of contracts is that the parties can decide which law should apply for most purposes, and memorialize that decision into the contract itself (see forum selection clause and choice of law clause)although not every jurisdiction will enforce such provisions. For the harmonising provisions on contractual obligations in EU law, see the Rome Convention (contract).\n\nThe Rome I Regulation constrains the choice of law for special types of contracts. With a view to the weaker parties, such as consumers, employees and insurants, special choice of law rules are laid down by articles 5-8. The most important rules for companies, mostly closing contracts with consumers, are listed in Art. 6. Art. 6 (I) defines the consumer contract as a contract where the consumer acts as a private person whereas the businessman acts for his commercial purpose. This articles also says that in absence of an explicit choice of law, a protected consumer contract is governed by the law of the consumer's habitual residence. In Art. 6 (II) the involved parties are given the possibility of a free choice of law. But the choice of law is legally void, if the consumer protection is limited by this choice.\n\nThe presumptive rule for tort is that the \"proper law\" applies. This is the law that has the greatest relevance to the issues involved. In public policy terms, this is likely to be the law of the place where the key elements of the \"wrong\" were performed or occurred (the \"lex loci delicti commissi\"). As established in the case of [1969], both plaintiff and defendants were British Soldiers Residents Stationed in Malta. Having an accident in Malta the court looked at the Lex Loci relating to its dual action-ability.\n\nAs to marriage, both formal and common law, the general rule is the \"lex loci celebrationis\" determines its validity, i.e. the law of the place where the marriage is celebrated, unless the purpose of the marriage offends a public policy of the domicile/nationality/habitual residence state. Hence, some states limit the capacity of their citizens to celebrate a monogamous marriage to a person of the opposite biological sex, or prohibit marriage between degrees of consanguinity, etc. Questions of nullity and divorce straddle Family Law and status because the outcome of the judicial proceedings affects status and capacities, and also overlap with the more general question of when the courts of one state will recognize and enforce the judgments of another state.\n\nThe rule for immovable property (called real property in common law states) is that the \"lex situs\" applies to all questions of title. Movable property (called personalty in common law states) claims are governed by the law of the state in which the property is located at the time the rights are supposedly created. An important distinction, however, must be made for a contract which has some incidental effect on property, both immovable and movable, such as a loan with property pledged as a collateral. If the property is incidental to the contract, then the contract is evaluated under traditional choice of law principles for a contract. If, however, the primary purpose of the contract is to transfer the property, then the entire contract will be evaluated under the law of the state where the property is located.\n\nWhere an inter vivos or testamentary trust includes immovables, reference must be made to the \"lex situs\" on all aspects relating to title and land use. Similarly, title to movables including choses in action, should be determined by \"lex situs\", i.e. the law of place where each item is located at the time the trust is created. Once created, all questions of administration are governed by the law specified in the trust instrument. In the unlikely event that the instrument is silent, the trust would be governed by the proper law.\n\nAll questions of prenuptial trusts and transfers are determined by the law of the transferor's domicile, nationality or habitual residence at the time of the marriage.\n\nAll questions relating to wills (and, as an incidental question, any testamentary trusts which the will purports to create), are governed by the law of domicile, nationality or habitual residence at the time of death. Questions of title affecting immovables are determined under the \"lex situs\".\n\nIllustration: Mr. \"Z\" died in US leaving immovable properties in US and other immovable properties in Kilimanjaro Tanzania. \"lex situs\" the law applicable would be of the place where the immovable is located. that is to say those in US to be administered according to the US laws and those in Tanzania according to the laws of Tanzania.(2013)\n"}
{"id": "14308145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14308145", "title": "Comparative bullet-lead analysis", "text": "Comparative bullet-lead analysis\n\nComparative bullet-lead analysis (CBLA), also known as compositional bullet-lead analysis, is a now discredited and abandoned forensic technique which used chemistry to link crime scene bullets to ones possessed by suspects on the theory that each batch of lead had a unique elemental makeup.\n\nThe technique was first used after U.S. President John F. Kennedy's assassination in 1963. From the early 1980s through 2004 the US Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted about 2,500 analyses on cases submitted by law-enforcement groups. The results of these analyses had often been questioned by defence lawyers and the press, so the FBI finally asked the United States National Academy of Science's Board on Science, Technology, and Economic Policy to research the scientific merit of the process.\n\nIn 2004 the Board's study was summarized in \"Forensic Analysis: Weighing Bullet Lead Evidence.\" The Board determined that the chemical analyses were being performed correctly and were probably sufficient to determine correlation between two bullets from separate sources (the analysis used plasma-optical emission spectroscopy to identify trace elements in the bullets). The report also concluded that the seven trace elements selected for the analyses (arsenic, antimony, tin, copper, bismuth, silver and cadmium) are acceptable for sample correlation. The report finally concluded that the procedure is the best available method for such correlations. The greatest caveat in the report was that the statistical tests as applied by the FBI could cause confusion and misinterpretation when transmitted to prosecutors or when explained to a trial jury. Because of the significance of this weakness, the report concluded that the analysis should be used with caution. This report helped the FBI decide in 2004 to voluntarily cease offering the analysis to law-enforcement entities. The National Academy of Sciences never required that the FBI stop using the test.\n\n\"CNN PRESENTS Encore Presentation: Reasonable Doubt\" examined the unreliability of this technique. It has been discontinued as of September 1, 2005.\n\nThe U.S. government has fought releasing the list of the estimated 2,500 cases over three decades in which it performed the analysis, which may have led to false convictions. According to the FBI, only 20% of the 2,500 tests performed introduced the CBLA results into evidence at trial.\n\nOn 17 December 2008, Jimmy Ates was released from a Florida prison after serving ten years on the conviction of having murdered his wife, a conviction obtained largely on the strength of a bullet-lead analysis. His conviction was overturned as a consequence of the 2004 report.\n\n"}
{"id": "22538340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22538340", "title": "Credit CARD Act of 2009", "text": "Credit CARD Act of 2009\n\nThe Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure (CARD) Act of 2009 is a federal statute passed by the United States Congress and signed by U.S. President Barack Obama on May 22, 2009. It is comprehensive credit card reform legislation that aims \"...to establish fair and transparent practices relating to the extension of credit under an open end consumer credit plan, and for other purposes.\" The bill was passed with bipartisan support by both the House of Representatives and the Senate.\n\nThe Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights was introduced in the 110th Congress as in the House of Representatives by Representative Carolyn Maloney, a Democrat from New York and the chair of the House Financial Services Committee's Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. The bill had passed 312 to 112 but was never given a vote in the Senate.\n\nIn the 111th United States Congress, the bill was reintroduced as and on April 30, 2009, the House passed 357 yes votes to 70 no votes. The Senate followed suit and passed an amended version on May 19 with 90 yes votes and 5 no votes. The House passed the amended bill the next day by a vote of 279 to 147 and it was signed into law by President Barack Obama on May 22, 2009.\n\nThe bill went into effect on February 22, 2010, nine months after it was enacted.\n\nThe Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights includes several provisions aimed at limiting how credit card companies can charge consumers but does not include price controls, rate caps, or fee settings.\n\nKey provisions include:\n\nGun rights advocates in the Senate, led by Tom Coburn (R-Okla) added an unrelated rider to the bill to prevent the Secretary of the Interior from enforcing any regulation that would prohibit an individual from possessing a firearm in any unit of the National Park System or the National Wildlife Refuge System. The Senate passed the amendment 67-29.\n\nThis amendment overturns a Reagan-era policy prohibiting firearms from being carried in national parks. The George W. Bush administration had attempted to implement a similar policy through the rulemaking process just before leaving office, but the change was struck down by a federal judge. The provision has been heavily criticized by some environmentalists and gun control advocates, but it was heavily applauded by gun rights groups.\n\nThe act was not expected to affect existing credit card contracts. However, the act that was passed applies to contracts made in the past by setting an effective date of February 22, 2010, which gave banks time to prepare and notify their customers. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in its October 2013 report on the CARD Act found that between the first quarter of 2009 and December 2013, credit card interest rates increased on average from 16.2% to 18.5%, while the “total cost of credit,” that is, the total of all fees and interest paid by all consumers as a percentage of the average cycle-ending balance, decreased by two hundred basis points (2.00%). The CFPB made no judgment on the extent to which the CARD Act contributed to these increases and decreases. However, interest rates on other types of consumer credit increased. The CFPB in its study also found that consumers paid less in late payment and over-the-limit fees since passage of the CARD Act. In contrast, studies by CardHub.com and the Center for Responsible Lending argued that interest rate trends were the result of economic pressures typical of a recession and not the law. According to these studies, historical economic data shows that the interest rate increase and decline in available credit seen during the Great Recession should have been worse considering the widespread unemployment, credit card delinquency and credit card charge-offs.\n\nSection 502(a) of the CARD Act requires a review of the consumer credit card market to be undertaken every two years. In February 2013 letter to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as part of the review, the American Bankers Association wrote that \"the CARD Act has provided clear and significant benefits to consumers\" but \"there have also been significant tradeoffs, specifically, higher costs and less availability for credit card credit.\" The American Bankers Association, in its letter responding to the CFPB's request for information on the impact of the act, argued that following the implementation of the CARD Act and associated regulations, \"average credit card interest rates have increased and credit card credit is less available, especially to subprime borrowers\" and \"credit card debt has decreased at a higher rate than other consumer debt and has decreased as a percent of disposable income as non‐revolving debt as a percent of disposable income has increased.\"\n\nA study published in the \"Quarterly Journal of Economics\" in 2014 (by Neale Mahoney of the University of Chicago, Sumit Agarwal of the National University of Singapore, Souphala Chomsisengphet of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and Johannes Stroebel of the New York University Stern School of Business) found that the law was saving American consumers $11.9 billion a year, and particularly decreased costs for borrowers with poor credit. The researchers further found \"no evidence of an increase in interest charges or a reduction to access to credit.\"\n\nIn a speech on the one-year anniversary of the CARD Act, then-CFPB Special Adviser Elizabeth Warren said that \"much of the [credit card] industry has gone further than the law requires in curbing re-pricing and overlimit fees.\" However, she said there was still much work to be done, that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's \"next challenges will be about further clarifying price and risks and making it easier for consumers to make direct product comparisons.\"\n\nIn 2012, many stay-at-home spouses complained that because they have no individual income, the act prevented them from acquiring credit cards without their husbands' permission. On April 29, 2013, the CFPB amended regulations to allow credit card issuers to consider third-party income for applicants who are 21 or older, if the applicant has a reasonable expectation of access to it.\n\nThe bill was cosponsored by House Financial Services Committee chair Barney Frank and Representatives Maxine Waters, Luis Gutiérrez, Stephen Lynch, Keith Ellison, Steve Cohen, Chaka Fattah, Maurice Hinchey, Jim Langevin, Jerrold Nadler, Carol Shea-Porter, Hilda Solis, Peter Welch, Albert Wynn, Peter DeFazio, Charles Gonzalez, Gene Taylor, David Obey, Mazie Hirono, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Nancy Boyda, John Dingell, Corrine Brown, Bennie Thompson, Alcee Hastings, Yvette Clark, Jesse Jackson, Danny Davis, Kirsten Gillibrand, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Diane Watson, Michael Arcuri, Eliot Engel, John Tierney, Chris Van Hollen, George Miller, Jim Moran, Anthony Weiner, Neil Abercrombie, and Jan Schakowsky.\n\n"}
{"id": "218798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218798", "title": "Custom (law)", "text": "Custom (law)\n\nCustom in law is the established pattern of behavior that can be objectively verified within a particular social setting. A claim can be carried out in defense of \"what has always been done and accepted by law.\" Related is the idea of prescription; a right enjoyed through long custom rather than positive law.\n\nCustomary law (also, consuetudinary or unofficial law) exists where: \n\nMost customary laws deal with \"standards of community\" that have been long-established in a given locale. However the term can also apply to areas of international law where certain standards have been nearly universal in their acceptance as correct bases of action – in example, laws against piracy or slavery (see \"hostis humani generis\"). In many, though not all instances, customary laws will have supportive court rulings and case law that has evolved over time to give additional weight to their rule as law and also to demonstrate the trajectory of evolution (if any) in the interpretation of such law by relevant courts.\n\nA central issue regarding the recognition of custom is determining the appropriate methodology to know what practices and norms actually constitutes customary law. It is not immediately clear that classic Western theories of jurisprudence can be reconciled in any useful way with conceptual analyses of customary law, and thus some scholars (like John Comaroff and Simon Roberts) have characterised customary law norms in their own terms. Yet, there clearly remains some disagreement, which is seen in John Hund's critique of Comaroff and Roberts' theory, and preference for the contributions of H. L. A. Hart. Hund argues that Hart's \"The Concept of Law\" solves the conceptual problem with which scholars who have attempted to articulate how customary law principles may be identified, defined and how they operate in regulating social behaviour and resolving disputes.\n\nComaroff and Roberts' famous work, \"Rules and Processes\", attempted to detail the body of norms that constitute Tswana law in a way that was less legalistic (or rule-oriented) than had Isaac Schapera. They defined \"mekgwa le melao ya Setswana\" in terms of Casalis and Ellenberger definition: \"melao\" therefore being rules pronounced by a chief and \"mekgwa\" as norms that become customary law through traditional usage. Importantly, however, they noted that the Tswana seldom attempt to classify the vast array of existing norms into categories and they thus termed this the 'undifferentiated nature of the normative repertoire'. Moreover, they observe the co-existence of overtly incompatible norms that may breed conflict, either due to circumstances in a particular situation, or inherently due to their incongruous content. This lack of rule classification and failure to eradicate internal inconsistencies between potentially conflicting norms allows for much flexibility in dispute settlement and is also viewed as a 'strategic resource' for disputants who seek to advance their own success in a case. The latter incongruities (especially of inconsistencies of norm content) are typically solved by elevating one of the norms (tacitly) from 'the literal to the symbolic'. This allows for the accommodation of both as they now theoretically exist in different realms of reality. This is highly contextual, which further illustrates that norms cannot be viewed in isolation and are open to negotiation. Thus, although there are a small number of so-called non-negotiable norms, the vast majority are viewed and given substance contextually, which is seen as fundamental to the Tswana.\n\nComaroff and Roberts describe how outcomes of specific cases have the ability to change the normative repertoire, as the repertoire of norms is seen to be both in a state of formation and transformation at all times. These changes are justified on the grounds that they are merely giving recognition to de facto observations of transformation [219]. Furthermore, the legitimacy of a chief is a direct determinant of the legitimacy of his decisions. In the formulation of legislative pronouncements, as opposed to decisions made in dispute resolution, the chief first speaks of the proposed norm with his advisors, then council of headmen, then the public assembly debate the proposed law and may accept or reject it. A chief can proclaim the law even if the public assembly rejects it, but this is not often done; and, if the chief proclaims the legislation against the will of the public assembly, the legislation will become melao, however it is unlikely that it will be executed because its effectiveness depends on the chief's legitimacy and the norm's consistency with the practices (and changes in social relations) and will of the people under that chief.\n\nRegarding the invocation of norms in disputes, Comaroff and Roberts used the term, \"paradigm of argument\", to refer to the linguistic and conceptual frame used by a disputant, whereby 'a coherent picture of relevant events and actions in terms of one or more implicit or explicit normative referents' is created. In their explanation, the complainant (who always speaks first) thus establishes a paradigm the defendant can either accept and therefore argue within that specific paradigm or reject and therefore introduce his or her own paradigm (usually, the facts are not contested here). If the defendant means to change the paradigm, they will refer to norms as such, where actually norms are not ordinarily explicitly referenced in Tswana dispute resolution as the audience would typically already know them and just the way one presents one's case and constructs the facts will establish one's paradigm. The headman or chief adjudicating may also do same: accept the normative basis implied by the parties (or one of them), and thus not refer to norms using explicit language but rather isolate a factual issue in the dispute and then make a decision on it without expressly referring to any norms, or impose a new or different paradigm onto the parties.\n\nHund finds Comaroff and Roberts' flexibility thesis of a 'repertoire of norms' from which litigants and adjudicator choose in the process of negotiating solutions between them uncompelling. He is therefore concerned with disproving what he calls \"rule scepticism\" on their part. He notes that the concept of custom generally denotes convergent behaviour, but not all customs have the force of law. Hund therefore draws from Hart's analysis distinguishing social rules, which have internal and external aspects, from habits, which have only external aspects. Internal aspects are the reflective attitude on the part of adherents toward certain behaviours perceived to be obligatory, according to a common standard. External aspects manifest in regular, observable behaviour, but is not obligatory. In Hart's analysis, then, social rules amount to custom that has legal force.\n\nHart identifies three further differences between habits and binding social rules. First, a social rule exists where society frowns on deviation from the habit and attempts to prevent departures by criticising such behaviour. Second, when this criticism is seen socially as a good reason for adhering to the habit, and it is welcomed. And, third, when members of a group behave in a common way not only out of habit or because everyone else is doing it, but because it is seen to be a common standard that should be followed, at least by some members. Hund, however, acknowledges the difficulty of an outsider knowing the dimensions of these criteria that depend on an internal point of view.\n\nFor Hund, the first form of rule scepticism concerns the widely held opinion that, because the content of customary law derives from practice, there are actually no objective rules, since it is only behaviour that informs their construction. On this view, it is impossible to distinguish between behaviour that is rule bound and behaviour that is not—i.e., which behaviour is motivated by adherence to law (or at least done in recognition of the law) and is merely a response to other factors. Hund sees this as problematic because it makes quantifying the law almost impossible, since behaviour is obviously inconsistent. Hund argues that this is a misconception based on a failure to acknowledge the importance of the \"internal element\". In his view, by using the criteria described above, there is not this problem in deciphering what constitutes \"law\" in a particular community.\n\nAccording to Hund, the second form of rule scepticism says that, though a community may have rules, those rules are not arrived at 'deductively', i.e. they are not created through legal/moral reasoning only but are instead driven by the personal/political motives of those who create them. The scope for such influence is created by the loose and undefined nature of customary law, which, Hund argues, grants customary-lawmakers (often through traditional 'judicial processes') a wide discretion in its application. Yet, Hund contends that the fact that rules might sometimes be arrived at in the more ad hoc way, does not mean that this defines the system. If one requires a perfect system, where laws are created only deductively, then one is left with a system with no rules. For Hund, this cannot be so and an explanation for these kinds of law-making processes is found in Hart's conception of \"secondary rules\" (rules in terms of which the main body of norms are recognised). Hund therefore says that for some cultures, for instance in some sections of Tswana society, the secondary rules have developed only to the point where laws are determined with reference to politics and personal preference. This does not mean that they are not \"rules\". Hund argues that if we acknowledge a developmental pattern in societies' constructions of these secondary rules then we can understand how this society constructs its laws and how it differs from societies that have come to rely on an objective, stand-alone body of rules.\n\nThe modern codification of civil law developed from the tradition of medieval custumals, collections of local customary law that developed in a specific manorial or borough jurisdiction, and which were slowly pieced together mainly from case law and later written down by local jurists. Custumals acquired the force of law when they became the undisputed rule by which certain rights, entitlements, and obligations were regulated between members of a community. Some examples include Bracton's \"De Legibus et Consuetudinibus Angliae\" for England, the \"Coutume de Paris\" for the city of Paris, the \"Sachsenspiegel\" for northern Germany, and the many \"fueros\" of Spain.\n\nIn international law, \"customary law\" refers to the \"Law of Nations\" or the legal norms that have developed through the customary exchanges between states over time, whether based on diplomacy or aggression. Essentially, legal obligations are believed to arise between states to carry out their affairs consistently with past accepted conduct. These customs can also change based on the acceptance or rejection by states of particular acts. Some principles of customary law have achieved the force of peremptory norms, which cannot be violated or altered except by a norm of comparable strength. These norms are said to gain their strength from universal acceptance, such as the prohibitions against genocide and slavery. Customary international law can be distinguished from treaty law, which consists of explicit agreements between nations to assume obligations. However, many treaties are attempts to codify pre-existing customary law.\n\nCustomary law is a recognized source of law within jurisdictions of the civil law tradition, where it may be subordinate to both statutes and regulations. In addressing custom as a source of law within the civil law tradition, John Henry Merryman notes that, though the attention it is given in scholarly works is great, its importance is \"slight and decreasing.\" On the other hand, in many countries around the world, one or more types of customary law continue to exist side by side with official law, a condition referred to as legal pluralism (see List of national legal systems).\n\nIn the canon law of the Catholic Church, custom is a source of law. Canonical jurisprudence, however, differs from Civil law jurisprudence in requiring the express or implied consent of the legislator for a custom to obtain the force of law.\n\nIn the Common Law of England, \"Long usage\" must be established.\n\nIt is a broad principle of property law that, if something has gone on for a long time without objection, whether it be using a right of way or occupying land to which one has no title, the law will eventually recognise the fact and give the person doing it the legal right to continue.\n\nIt is known in case law as\nCustomary Rights \n\"Customary rights\". Something which has been practised since time immemorial by reference to a particular locality may acquire the legal status of a custom, which is a form of local law.The legal criteria defining a custom are precise. The most common claim in recent times, is for customary rights to moor a vessel.\n\nThe mooring must have been in continuous use for \"Time Immemorial\" which is defined by legal precedent as 12 years (or 20 years for Crown Land) for the same purpose by people using them for that purpose.\n\nTo give two examples:- A custom of mooring which might have been established in past times for over two hundred years by the fishing fleet of local inhabitants of a coastal community will not simply transfer so as to benefit present day recreational boat owners who may hail from much further afield.\n\nWhereas a group of houseboats on a mooring that has been in continuous use for the last 25 years \nwith a mixture of owner occupiers and rented houseboats, may clearly continue to be used by houseboats, where the owners live in the same town or city.\n\nBoth the purpose of the moorings and the class of persons benefited by the custom must have been clear and consistent.\n\nIn Canada, customary aboriginal law has a constitutional foundation and for this reason has increasing influence.\n\nIn the Scandinavian countries customary law continues to exist and has great influence. \n\nCustomary law is also used in some Third World countries, such as those in Africa, usually used alongside common or civil law. For example, in Ethiopia, despite the adoption of legal codes based on civil law in the 1950s according to Dolores Donovan and Getachew Assefa there are more than 60 systems of customary law currently in force, \"some of them operating quite independently of the formal state legal system.\" They offer two reasons for the relative autonomy of these customary law systems: one is that the Ethiopian government lacks sufficient resources to enforce its legal system to every corner of Ethiopia; the other is that the Ethiopian government has made a commitment to preserve these customary systems within its boundaries.\n\nIn 1995, President of Kyrgyzstan Askar Akaev announced a decree to revitalize the \"aqsaqal\" courts of village elders. The courts would have jurisdiction over property, torts and family law. The \"aqsaqal\" courts were eventually included under Article 92 of the Kyrgyz constitution. As of 2006, there were approximately 1,000 \"aqsaqal\" courts throughout Kyrgyzstan, including in the capital of Bishkek. Akaev linked the development of these courts to the rekindling of Kyrgyz national identity. In a 2005 speech, he connected the courts back to the country's nomadic past and extolled how the courts expressed the Kyrgyz ability of self-governance. Similar \"aqsaqal\" courts exist, with varying levels of legal formality, in other countries of Central Asia.\n\nThe Somali people in the Horn of Africa follow a customary law system referred to as Xeer. It survives to a significant degree everywhere in Somalia and in the Somali communities in the Ogaden. Economist Peter Leeson attributes the increase in economic activity since the fall of the Siad Barre administration to the security in life, liberty and property provided by Xeer in large parts of Somalia. The Dutch attorney Michael van Notten also draws upon his experience as a legal expert in his comprehensive study on Xeer, \"The Law of the Somalis: A Stable Foundation for Economic Development in the Horn of Africa\" (2005).\n\nIn India many customs are accepted by law. For example, Hindu marriage ceremonies are recognized by the Hindu Marriage Act.\n\nIn Indonesia, customary adat laws of the country's various indigenous ethnicities are recognized, and customary dispute resolution is recognized in Papua. Indonesian adat law are mainly divided into 19 circles, namely Aceh, Gayo, Alas, and Batak, Minangkabau, South Sumatra, the Malay regions, Bangka and Belitung, Kalimantan, Minahasa, Gorontalo, Toraja, South Sulawesi, Ternate, the Molluccas, Papua, Timor, Bali and Lombok, Central and East Java including the island of Madura, Sunda, and the Javanese monarchies, including the Yogyakarta Sultanate, Surakarta Sunanate, and the Pakualaman and Mangkunegaran princely states.\n\nCustom is used in tort law to help determine negligence. Following or disregarding a custom is not determinative of negligence, but instead is an indication of possible best practices or alternatives to a particular action.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26625073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26625073", "title": "Deakin Law Review", "text": "Deakin Law Review\n\nDeakin Law Review is an Australian peer-reviewed law review published biannually by Deakin University School of Law. It was founded in 1993.\n"}
{"id": "7149734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7149734", "title": "Divorce demography", "text": "Divorce demography\n\nDivorce demography is the study of the demographic factors that impact divorce as a social phenomenon.\n\nInformation about divorces can generally be obtained from the census data published by governmental statistics offices.\n\nOne measure of divorces is the \"crude divorce rate\", which is the number of divorces per 1,000 population. It can give a general overview of marriage in an area, but it does not take people who cannot marry into account. For example, it would include young children who are clearly not of marriageable age in its sample. A related measure is the \"refined divorce rate\" which measures the number of divorces per 1,000 women married to men, so that non-married persons, e.g. young children are left out of the rate.\nCrude Divorce Rate= Div/Pop*1000\n\nAnother measure of divorces is the \"divorce to marriage ratio\", which is the number of divorces to the number of marriages in a given year (the ratio of the crude divorce rate to the crude marriage rate). For example, if there are 550 divorces and 1,000 marriages in a given year in a given area, the ratio would be one divorce for every two marriages, e.g. a ratio of 0.55 (55%). However, this measurement compares two unlike populations, those who can marry and those who can divorce.\n\nSay there exists a community with 100,000 married couples, and very few people capable of marriage, for reasons such as age. If 1,000 people obtain divorces and 1,000 people get married in the same year, the ratio is one divorce for every marriage, which may lead people to think that the community's relationships are extremely unstable, despite the number of married people not changing. This is also true in reverse: a community with very many people of marriageable age may have 10,000 marriages and 1,000 divorces, leading people to believe that it has very stable relationships.\n\nFurthermore, these two rates are not directly comparable since the marriage rate only examines the current year, while the divorce rate examines the outcomes of marriages for many previous years. This does not equate to the proportion of marriages in a given single-year cohort that will ultimately end in divorce.\n\nAnother solution is to conduct a longitudinal study of married batches to assess the divorce rate.\n\n"}
{"id": "4193497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4193497", "title": "Donoughmore Constitution", "text": "Donoughmore Constitution\n\nThe Donoughmore Constitution (; ), created by the Donoughmore Commission, served Sri Lanka (Ceylon) from 1931 to 1947 when it was replaced by the Soulbury Constitution.\n\nIt was a significant development. First, it was the only constitution in the British Empire (outside the \"white\" dominions of Australia, South Africa and Canada) enabling general elections with adult universal suffrage. For the first time, a \"dependent\", non-caucasian country within the empires of Western Europe was given one-person, one-vote and the power to control domestic affairs. Here was the pilot project whose success would ensure freedom from colonial/imperial bondage for whole swathes of Asia, Africa and the Caribbean.\n\nSecondly, it created a committee system of government specifically to address the multi-ethnic problems of Sri Lanka. Under this system, no one ethnic community could dominate the political arena. Instead, every government department was overseen by a committee of parliamentarians drawn from all the ethnic communities. This created a built-in series of checks and balances, leading to continual 'pork-barrelling' and 'log-rolling', in which every ethnic group gained something. Consensual politics was thereby forced on Sri Lanka's reluctant political activists. Power and funding followed those with the ability to maximise broadbased multi-ethnic support: negotiators and peacemakers were therefore elevated above demagogues and warmongers. \n\nThe Donoughmore Commissioners had been appointed by the socialist Sydney Webb. Webb was briefly the Secretary of State for the Colonies in the Lib-Lab coalition government of 1927. He appointed Commissioners whom he knew shared his desire for an equitable and socialist British empire and they in turn came up with a Constitutional arrangement for Sri Lanka, which would ensure that every community in the island had a chance of for power and prosperity.\n"}
{"id": "26698697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26698697", "title": "Enduring power of attorney", "text": "Enduring power of attorney\n\nAn enduring power of attorney (EPA) under English law is a legal authorisation to act on someone else's behalf in legal and financial matters which (unlike other kinds of power of attorney) can continue in force after the person granting it loses mental capacity, and so can be used to manage the affairs of people who have lost the ability to deal with their own affairs, without the need to apply to the Court of Protection. \n\nEPA's were created by the Enduring Powers of Attorney Act 1985. It soon became apparent that the law relating to mental incapacity remained inadequate and between 1991 and 1993 the Law Commission published a series of consultation documents. In 1995 it published a report \"Mental Incapacity\" which recommended the abolition of EPAs, noting that they could not handle health or welfare issues and assumed that a person either had mental capacity or did not. No provision existed for a partial intervention in a person’s affairs where the person concerned had partial or fluctuating capacity.\n\nThe Law Commission proposed the introduction of Continuing Powers of Attorney (CPAs). These were subsequently enacted by the Mental Capacity Act 2005 as Lasting Powers of Attorney (LPAs). The Mental Capacity Act 2005 came into force on 1 October 2007 and no new EPAs can now be drawn up; however, one signed before that date remains valid and may still be registered with the Office of the Public Guardian. This is required when the donor begins to lose mental capacity. Unlike an LPA, an EPA can be used without registration for so long as the donor has mental capacity.\n\nAn EPA gives the person appointed as attorney the power to dispose of property, deal with financial affairs, sign documents and make purchases on behalf of the individual and make usual gifts. The attorney does not have the power to make substantial or unusual gifts, or make decisions about personal care and welfare.\n\n"}
{"id": "20896363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20896363", "title": "Executive Order 13356", "text": "Executive Order 13356\n\nExecutive Order 13356 is a United States Presidential Executive Order signed on August 27, 2004, by President George W. Bush.\nIts goal was \"Strengthening the Sharing of Terrorism Information To Protect Americans\".\nIt was supplemented and partially superseded Executive Order 13388.\n\nSection 1 of the executive order lays out a policy change, instructing the directors of US intelligence agencies\n\nLater sections of the Executive Order specified the details of how the directors of US intelligence agencies should implement this policy change.\n"}
{"id": "1686164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1686164", "title": "Femicide", "text": "Femicide\n\nFemicide or feminicide is a sex-based hate crime term, broadly defined as \"the intentional killing of females (women or girls) because they are females\", though definitions vary depending on the cultural context. Feminist author Diana E. H. Russell was the first person to define and disseminate this term in 1976. She defines the word as \"the killing of females by males because they are female.\" Other feminists place emphasis on the intention or purpose of the act being directed at females specifically because they are female; others include the killing of females by females.\n\nOften, the necessity of defining the murder of females separately from overall homicide is questioned. Opponents argue that since over 80% of all murder victims are men, the term places too much emphasis on the less prevalent murder of females. In addition, the study of femicide is a social challenge.\n\nAn alternative term offered is gendercide, which is more ambivalent and inclusive. However, some feminists argue that the term \"gendercide\" perpetuates the taboo of the subject of the murder of females. Feminists also argue that the motives for femicide are vastly different than those for androcide. Instead of centering in street violence, much of femicide is centered within the home.\n\nThe term \"femicide\" was first used in England in 1801 to signify \"the killing of a woman.\" In 1848, this term was published in Wharton's Law Lexicon. Another term used is \"feminicide\", which is properly formed from the Latin \"femina\", meaning \"woman\" (\"femicide\" being truncated).\n\nThe current usage emerged with the 1970s feminist movements, which aimed to raise feminine consciousness and resistance against gender oppression. American author, Carol Orlock, is widely credited with initiating the usage of the term in this context in her unpublished anthology on femicide. Diana Russell publicised the term at the Crimes Against Women Tribunal in 1976. Here is part of what she wrote for the proceedings:\n\"We must realize that a lot of homicide is in fact femicide. We must recognize the sexual politics of murder. From the burning of witches in the past, to the more recent widespread custom of female infanticide in many societies, to the killing of women for \"honor,\" we realize that femicide has been going on a long time. But since it involves mere females, there was no name for it until Carol Orlock invented the word 'femicide.'\" Until recently femicide was invisible in much of the scientific literature.\n\nFeminist author Diana Russell narrows the definition of femicide to \"the killing of females by males because they are female\". Russell places emphasis on the idea that males commit femicide with sexist motives. She also chooses to replace the word woman with female to show that femicide can occur to both girls and infants as well. Russell believes her definition of femicide applies to all forms of sexist killing, whether they be motivated by misogyny (the hatred of females), by a sense of superiority over females, by sexual pleasure, or by assumption of ownership over women.\nRussell's broader definition of femicide is stated as this,\n\nShe includes covert killings of women as well, such as the mass murder of female babies due to male preference in cultures such as India and China, as well as deaths related to the failure of social institutions, such as the criminalization of abortion or the prevalence of female genital mutilation.\n\nDiana Russell's definition is not accepted by all scholars as the standard definition for femicide. Jacquelyn Campbell and Carol Runyan use the word femicide to reference \"all killings of women regardless of motive or perpetrator status\" These authors argue that motive is not always empirically possible to be determined, and so must be removed from the qualification for femicide in order to gather data.\n\nOn the other hand, authors Desmond Ellis and Walter Dekesedery take a different approach by viewing the definition for femicide as \"the intentional killing of females by males\". These feminists require that femicide always be intentional unlike the inclusion of covert femicide in Diana Russell's definition.\n\nMost of these definitions imply that the perpetrator of femicide is a man, but South Asian feminists differ in their definition stating that femicide is \"the intentional killing of females by men and of females by other females in the interests of men\". Examples of this include neglect of female children in preference of males, as well as dowry related murder where female in-laws kill women due to dowry disputes. Moreover, COST Action 1206 provides definitions of femicide.\n\nAll of these definitions refer to the idea that femicide is unique from non-gendered descriptions of murder and homicide. Instead, defining femicide exemplifies the fact that women are killed for different reasons and motives from those associated with typical descriptions of murder. Globally, femicide has seldom been investigated separately from homicide, and the goals of many of these authors is to make femicide a separate category. In 2013, COST set up Action IS-1206 entitled \"Femicide across Europe\".\n\nThe manifestations of femicide vary greatly. Using Diana Russell's definition, femicide includes intimate partner femicide, lesbicide, racial femicide, serial femicide, mass femicide, honor killing related femicide, dowry and more. Any act of sexual terrorism that results in death is considered a femicide. This includes forms of covert femicide as well, such as criminalization of abortion that leads to death from unsafe abortions, or death as a result of female genital mutilation.\n\nOne of the most common and least publicized forms of femicide is that committed by an intimate partner of a female, such as a current or former husband, boyfriend or common-law husband. This form of femicide accounts for at least 35% of all murders of woman globally\n\nDifferent areas of the world experience varying types of femicide. For example, the Middle East and South Asia have higher rates of honor killing which is defined as the murder of women by their family due to an actual or assumed sexual or behavioral transgression such as adultery, sexual intercourse, or even rape.\n\nDepending on the definition, femicide can also include deaths as a result of female genital mutilation, the intentional spreading of HIV/AIDS, and the unsafe abortions in countries where access to abortion is stymied or illegal.\n\nIntimate partner femicide, sometimes called intimate femicide, refers to \"the killing of a woman by her intimate partner or her former intimate partner\". These include former or current boyfriends, husbands and common-law husbands.\n\nThis form of femicide accounts for 40–50% of all deaths of American women killed, and each day in the United States results in the deaths of four women.. Spain, on the other hand, reports an intimate partner femicide rate of one woman every two days. Yearly, India's government reports the deaths of 5,000 woman to this cause, but this number is believed to be grossly underestimated due to the under-reported prevalence of honor killings and dowry-related murders. However, intimate partner homicide only accounts for 5–8% of all murders of men, disproportionately affecting women to a large extent, making it a gendered problem.\n\nIn fact, women are disproportionately represented as victims of all family violence including incest, sexual harassment, rape and battering. These acts of violence are found to escalate over time within a relationship, possibly resulting in femicide. The prevalence of intimate partner femicide dispels the myth that women have the most to fear from strangers, and instead are most often killed within the private sphere of the home, the area where they are supposedly most safe according to global ideals. One of the main motives that cause men to kill their intimate partners is jealousy, which Jacquelyn Campbell argues is the male efforts to control and possess women to display ownership and reinforce patriarchy.\n\nRisk factors that increase the likelihood of intimate partner femicide include: when a male has previously threatened to commit suicide or kill the woman if she cheats on him and/or leaves him, when there is elevated alcohol or drug abuse by either partner, or when a male attempts to control a woman's freedom. Two-fifths of intimate partner femicide are related to use of intoxicants. Other factors commonly associated with male perpetrators of femicide include gun ownership, forcing sexual intercourse, and unemployment. Risk factors for women include: if they are pregnant, have faced prior abuse from their partner, are estranged from their partner or are attempting to leave a relationship, their likelihood of femicide increases. The presence of firearms within a home is a large factor in intimate partner femicide, and worldwide firearms are used in one-third of all femicides.\n\nIntimate partner femicide, as reported in the media, often is presented sympathetically towards the male perpetrators. Males are seen as \"being driven\" to commit femicide due to a \"breakdown in love attributed to the female\". In defense trials, the defense of provocation is often used to reduce the time men serve in prison. This idea of provocation is that any \"reasonable man can be provoked into killing by insubordination on the part of a woman.\" Conversely, women are not often able to use this idea of provocation in their own murder trials, and judges are less likely to accept claims of self-defense, showing biased judging standards.\n\nFactors that decrease the risk of intimate partner femicide include a separate domicile for women and other societal factors such as more police as well as mandated arrest for violation of restraining orders related to intimate partner violence. Karen D. Stout found that there is a correlation between the number of women's shelters in a state, number of rape crisis centers and a lowered rate of femicide. One explanation of this correlation is that the implementation of these measures have had a positive effect on lowering the femicide rate. Other effective legislation against femicide include legislation that defines civil injunction relief; defines physical abuse as a criminal offense'; allows arrest without a warrant; requires data collection and reporting; and provides funds for women's shelters.\n\nSerial femicide is defined as \"the sexually sadistic killing of women,\" also called \"sexual terrorism\". Feminists emphasize that many cases of serial murder can also be considered to be cases of male-perpetrated crimes against women as a means for men to achieve sexual gratification and dominance over women. They claim that gender-neutral terms hide the reality that victims of serial murder are predominantly female and perpetrators predominantly male. Although over 90% of serial killers are male, not all are male; about 7% are female.\n\nMale serial murderers tend to use more brutal methods of killing such as suffocation and beatings, while women use methods such as poison or less violent measures. In addition, while a large percentage of male serial killers do focus on women as their targets, female serial killers are less likely to focus exclusively on males as targets. Some male serial killers focus on males as targets, such as Jeffrey Dahmer and Wayne Williams The ways serial murderers are portrayed in the media reflect the views on femicide and gender in society. Often, murders of prostitutes, low-income women and women of color by serial killers receive less attention in the media than the killings of younger, prettier, more affluent women, usually married, engaged, or in relationships with much handsome, affluent, younger men their age. Serial killers are almost always portrayed as monsters and sociopaths in the news.\nSome examples of femicide by mass murder and serial killings would include killers like George Hennard, Lorenzo Gilyard, George Sodini, Anthony Sowell, Wesley Shermantine and Loren Herzog, Dean Carter, Derrick Lee, Marc Lepine, William Pickton, Russell Williams, Kenneth McDuff, Serhiy Tkach, Paul Durousseau, Cody Legebokoff, Albert DeSalvo, John Wayne Glover, Ted Bundy, John Floyd Thomas, Jr., Tony Costa, Kendall Francois, Gerard John Schaefer, Rodney Alcala, Charles C. Roberts, Walter E. Ellis, Andrew Urdiales, Pedro Alonso López, Timothy Krajcir, Arthur B. Schirmer Jr., Gilbert Paul Jordan, Nikolai Dzhumagaliev, Lonnie David Franklin, Richard Ramirez, Alton Coleman, Drew Peterson, Michael Carneal, Danny Harold Rolling, Terry Blair, Keith Jesperson, Henry Louis Wallace, Dennis Rader, Robert Yates, Jeffrey MacDonald, Lawrence Bittaker and Roy Norris, Joel Rifkin, Morris Solomon, Kenneth Bianchi and Angelo Buono Jr., Aaron Schaffhausen, Bobby Jack Fowler, H. H. Holmes, John Bodkin Adams, George Hill Hodel, Gary Ridgway, Maury Travis, Andrei Chikatilo, Carl Eugene Watts, Mitchell Johnson and Andrew Golden, Chester Turner, Wayne Adam Ford, Craig Price, Cary Anthony Stayner, Robert Hansen, Peter Sutcliffe, Joe Ball and tens of thousands of other male mass murderers and serial killers who target women and girls. Many, like the Long Island serial killer, the Killing Fields in Texas, the Highway of Tears killers and the New Bedford Highway Killer in the FBI database are still at large. Serial killers prey on women – according to FBI data, women account for 70 percent of the known victims of serial killers since 1985. By comparison, women represent only 22 percent of total homicide victims, which are usually males killing other males. According to the FBI's Supplementary Homicide Report, local police reported that about 33,000 homicides of women remain unsolved.\nFeminists such as Diana Russell and Jane Caputi believe that there is a link between the rise of serial murders and the advent of pornography. Specifically, the advent of films that eroticize violence and murder of women has been correlated to the desires of serial killers. Numerous serial murderers filmed their victims as they violently killed them. These men include: Harvey Glatman, Kenneth Bianchi, and Leonard Lake, to name a few. However, the link between pornography and serial murders is not proven.\n\nThe Hope Movement defines racist femicide as racially motivated killing of women by men of a different race. According to Diana Russell and fellow writer Jill Radford, \"Racism interacts with violence against women and shapes both femicide itself and the ways it is addressed by the local community, the police, the media, and the legal system.\"\nRussell and Radford, as well as many other feminist activists, assert that when looking at femicide, within the United States specifically, one must consider the politics of both sexism and racism in the murders of black women and the little justice that is often served. Media coverage especially can exhibit bias when covering the murders of black versus white women. Jaime Grant writes on the murder of 12 young women in Boston and exposes the \"...racism in media coverage, which virtually ignored these killings initially and later depicted the victims in racist and sexist stereotypes as runaways or prostitutes.\" In addition, police response and investigation can often differ based on race of the victim.\n\nAccording to Diana Russell and Jill Radford, lesbicide, also known as homophobic femicide, has a long history of legalized murder of lesbians in many different cultural contexts:\n\nToday, lesbianism is no longer a capital crime but it remains criminalized by many governments and condemned by most religions. Torture and murder of lesbians occurs in every part of the world, even in \"developed\" countries. According to Dr. Susan Hawthorne of Victoria University, \"...domination is exemplified in the punishment of lesbians as outsiders in patriarchal culture...\" Dr. Hawthorne goes on to elaborate that lesbians are often killed or tortured or generally denied rights because of their invisibility in terms of political power and social representation: \"When it comes to campaigns on violence against women, lesbians are either left out or included only in a footnote...\"\n\nAccording to political scientist and women's studies scholar, Susan Hawthorne, corrective rape is a hate crime that constitutes forced sexual activity with a woman who is gender nonconforming and/or a lesbian. The goal of corrective rape is to \"correct\" the victim's sexual orientation and make them heterosexual and/or to make them behave in a more gender-conforming manner. This has led to death in some cases. There are documented cases of corrective rape in South Africa, Zimbabwe, Ecuador, and Thailand. Eudy Simelane was a famous soccer player who played for the South Africa women's national football team and LGBT rights activist; her murder was a highly publicized instance of simultaneous corrective rape and lesbicide in South Africa.\n\nEvery year 66,000 women are violently killed globally. The rates of femicide differ depending on the specific country, but of the countries with the top 25 highest femicide rates, 50% are in Latin America, with number one being El Salvador. Also included in the top 25 are seven European countries, three Asian countries, and one African country, South Africa. It has been found that as the rate of femicide increases, the ratio of intimate partner femicide decreases, pointing to the idea that as violence in a society increases, so does the femicide rate due to violence outside the home. This is often tied to high levels of tolerance of violence against women in countries. In a UN study, 1 in 4 women in the top 25 countries agreed that it was justifiable to be beaten or hit for arguing with their husband or refusing to have sex with him. Overall, data on femicide worldwide is poor, and often countries do not report gender differences in murder statistics. In addition, reporting data on migrants is particularly scarce.\n\nFemicide in the United States accounts for the deaths of four women daily. It is the leading cause of death for African American women ages 15–24 and of on-the-job death for women. Since the 1970s, the rates of femicide in the United States has fluctuated between 3.8–4.5 deaths per less than 100,000 women. One of the largest predictors of femicide in the United States is the appearance of physical abuse, which was found in 79% of all femicide cases in North Carolina. Gun availability in the United States has also had a substantial effect on femicide, correlating to 67.9% of deaths in a study by Karen D. Stout. Living in neighborhoods with increased poverty, ethnic heterogeneity and decreased collective efficacy (social cohesion among neighbors) are all found to be linked to increased femicide rates in that area. Across the nation femicide rates vary, with the highest rate in 1985 being found in Alabama and the lowest in Iowa. Geographically, the highest prevalence of femicide occurs in the Southeast and Southwest areas of the country. The perpetrators of femicide are most often the husbands of the murdered woman, followed by boyfriends and male paramours on the side. They tend to be of the same race as their victim, but generally older. The act is most often carried out with firearms, followed by knives and beatings. Feminists view the American attitude towards love as one of the reasons these intimate partner femicide occur. Feminist Hildegard Peplau states that Americans are sentimental about love and that they de-emphasize the cultural forces that shape whom you love and the dynamics of that love. She believes the United States greatly neglects the dynamics of power in a relationship, and how that power goes to the male. Because of these patriarchal values in this nation, regulation of females by males is culturally permitted inside the private and outside the public sphere of the home. In fact, the home is one of the most dangerous areas for a woman to be in terms of femicide. Also, reporting of female victims of femicide in the US is stymied due to the assumption that female victims are not an anomaly, but are driven by their perceived vulnerability and passivity.\n\nFeminists in Latin America have been among the first to adopt the term femicide, referring to the female homicides in Juarez, Mexico. The use of this term inspired feminists in Latin America to organize anti-femicide groups to try to challenge this social injustice towards women. The use of the term femicide, and the creation of anti-femicide feminist organizations, spread from Mexico to many other Latin American countries, like Guatemala. According to Julia Estela Monárrez-Fragoso of the Colegio de la Frontera Norte based in Ciudad Juarez, victims are often blamed for being out late or hanging around \"questionable\" areas such as discotecas or nightclubs. Since 2000, more than five thousand women and girls have been brutally murdered in Guatemala. Guatemala's historical record reveals a long history of acceptance of gendered violence and the military government's and judiciary's role in normalizing misogyny. In a Report on the Violations of Women's Rights in Guatemala by a United Nations Human Rights Committee, the state's failure to enforce laws protecting women from femicide is seen as highly problematic. The report argues that enforcing laws against murder of women is a low priority of state governments because of patriarchal beliefs and assumptions about the role of women in society.\n\nMany activists and scholars, such as Monárrez, have argued that connections exist between the femicides and neoliberal policies, namely North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). They believe that the treaty has served to open trade borders and increase foreign investment, which have served to open trade borders and increase foreign investment targeted at manufacturing low-cost garments in maquiladoras. It has been observed that many of the women killed in Juarez are young mothers who migrate to this region seeking employment in maquiladoras. They then become easy targets because they are separated from their family and are typically alone when traveling home. Policy solutions in Central America have tried making transportation safer (see below for policy solutions). Other scholars, such as Itallurde, point to the culpability of corporations \"...based on the concepts and doctrines of tortuous negligence, failure to protect, and aiding and abetting\". Other scholars, such as historians Steven Volk and Marian Schlotterbeck, hypothesize that there may be a \"macho backlash\" behind these killings: \"Certainly male egos, of fathers and would-be boyfriends, must suffer some deflation from this dramatic change in the economic influence of these young women.\"\n\nThe Mexican Supreme Court in 2015 required the police to reopen and investigate a murder case from a femicide \"perspective\".\n\nFemicide in Colombia has become a serious issue, it is said that one woman is killed every two days. In 2014 many Colombian women were victims of acid attacks, 871 women died from these attacks; in the first ten months of 2015, 671 women died. Between January and October 2015, 14,021 women were involved in domestic violence and brutality incidents; 10,272 of these women were under the age of 14. Cali, Colombia is one of the most dangerous cities in the world; in 2013 it was reported to have the highest rate of femicide in Colombia. It was reported that there were 144 homicides in Cali, in 2013; this is significantly higher than in other major Colombian cities. Macho culture has been a key factor to the rapid escalation of femicide in Latin America in general. Inequality of power between men and women, as well as the lack of resources provided for women, prevent them from seeking help and safety. On July 6, 2015, Colombia passed a new law stating femicide is a legally defined crime with 20 to 50 years' jail time. Colombia has followed 16 other Latin American countries that passed laws that have define and punish femicide as a specific crime. A new law brings harsher penalties for acid attacks in Colombia. The new law defines acid attacks as a specific crime and increases maximum sentences to 50 years in jail for convicted offenders. The law also aims to provide victims with better state medical care including reconstructive surgery and psychological therapy.\n\nIn Europe, agencies have funded initiatives on gender and violence but not specifically on femicide. Research is in its infancy and uncoordinated. A COST Action IS1206 has established the first pan-European coalition on femicide with researchers who are already studying the phenomenon nationally, in order to advance research clarity, agree on definitions, improve the efficacy of policies for femicide prevention, and publish guidelines for the use of national policy-makers.\n\nAvailable data are limited: Eurostat covers only 20 countries and there are discrepancies in the way in which the data is collected. According to available data in Western Europe the average annual rate is 0.4 victims of femicide for every 100,000 women. The worst situations are found in Montenegro, Lithuania and Latvia. In most countries, the partner is the most common perpetrator, but there are exceptions: in Lithuania and Bosnia and Herzegovina the majority of femicides are committed by family members. Also, while male victims of homicide have been in sharp decline in recent years, the number of women murdered in Europe, not necessarily at the hands of a partner or family member, remains constant, with a slight increase from 2013 to 2015.\n\nFemicide and views that support gender-based social restrictions has led to the restriction of Turkish women's lives, deterioration of their health, and even punishment in cases of acting contrary to social expectations. A gender-based discriminatory notion of so-called \"honor\" is sometimes the cause of serious cases of health deterioration or mutilation among women in Turkey. According to a 2000 report by the U.N. Population Fund (UNFPA), approximately 5,000 women are murdered each year in the name of \"honor\". In the case of Turkey, according to the \"Report on Custom and Honor Killings\" by the country's General Directorate of Security, 1,028 custom and honor killings were committed for the sake of morals or honesty between the years of 2003 and 2007.\n\nFemicide in Africa occurs in many different forms, including intimate partner femicide, mass femicide due to AIDS, honor killings and mass femicide due to female genital mutilations. The continent varies in cultural practices greatly and the manifestations of femicide differ greatly depending on the country. Northern African countries are predominantly Islamic in belief, such as Algeria. In Algeria, as well as some Islamic countries on the African continent, women are regulated to gender-specific rules . One faction of men kill women who do not wear the traditional hijab, while others kill women who do wear the hijab . In this sense, author Rod Kilbeck explains that women become a commodity in the fight between these two factions.\n\nOne of the biggest health problems in Africa is the epidemic of HIV/AIDS which affects 22.9 million people in Sub-Saharan Africa as of 2009. Whenever AIDS results in the death of a female due to misogyny or sexist male behavior, it is considered a form of femicide according to Diana Russell's definition of femicide.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is defined by the World Health Organization as \"the removal of part or all of the external female genitalia and/or injury to the female genetic organs for cultural or other non-therapeutic reasons\". Female genital mutilation results in femicide when women and girls die due to unhygienic practices of FGM that result in infection or death as well as the increased likelihood of contracting HIV/AIDS because of FGM.\n\nRita Banerji, feminist author and founder of The 50 Million Missing Campaign to end female gendercide in India, has said that there are also millions of girls and women killed through various forms of femicides, that extend across various age groups. In a U.N. Symposium on Femicide in Vienna on November 26, 2012, she talked about the six most widespread forms of femicide in India. These included female infanticide, the killing of girls under six years through starvation and violence, the killing of women due to forced abortions, honor killings, dowry murders, and witch lynchings. Many of the femicides in India are perpetrated against girls.\n\nDespite progressive legal reforms in many parts of the region, strong patriarchal values are maintained and help perpetuate the subordination of women. According to the Special Rapporteur on violence against women for the Human Rights Council, key factors behind gender-motivated killings of women in Asia are the high level of importance placed on women's chastity and their subordination in the greater society. For example, while the Penal Code of India now specifically prohibits dowry, the reported number of dowry-related deaths of women has almost doubled from 4,836 to 8, 383 over the past twenty years (1990–2009). The code is also criticized for having a low impact on criminalization of perpetrators noted in the low conviction rate of ten per cent. Suicide is the leading cause of death for Nepalese women in the reproductive age group, with causes ranging from domestic abuse, forced marriage, casting out of widows, and lack of property rights. In this context there is minimal acceptance and respect of young girls and women and often an absence of family support, which result in a variety of context-specific versions of femicide and gender-based violence in the region: honour killings, acid burning attacks, witch-hunting, foeticide, and gender-based violence during caste and communal conflict.\n\nCentral American policymakers have experimented with the creation of \"female friendly urban zones\" over the past decade. \"Pink\" public transportation networks have been established in Mexico, Brazil, El Salvador and Guatemala to provide women-only forms of public transportation in an effort to stem the sexual harassment and provide safety for women. These efforts have received substantial praise and criticism.\n\nCriticism from feminists and others often point to the efficacy of gender segregation in changing gender norms of oppression - specifically the Latin American cultural conventions of \"machismo\" and \"marianismo,\" which are powerful social regulators throughout the region.\n\nIn El Salvador, an endeavour has been made to create multiple government centers that house many gender-specific services in one place to cut down on commute time and increase the physical safety of women as they seek services such as counseling, child care, and reproductive health. \"The first center hopes to provide access to an estimated 162,000 women from the neighboring departments of La Libertad and Sonsonate. Supported by former Chilean president and head of UN Women Michelle Bachelet, the initiative cost $3.2 million, with an additional $20 million loan from the Inter-American Development Bank earmarked for the construction of new sites.\"\n\nCritics of this action point to the contradictory abortion laws in El Salvador that are some of the harshest in the world: abortion is completely illegal even in an effort to save the life a mother or to help a survivor of incest or rape. \"Coupled with the judicial system's weaknesses, violence is abetted by the same government that aims to protect and defend. High levels of impunity leave many crimes unresolved or unreported.\"\n\nGuatemala has championed the use of femicide as a concept by incorporating the term in its constitution. Lawmakers in this country passed Decree 22 in 2008 that defined Laws Against Femicide and Other Forms of Violence Against Women. These laws include 28 articles about prosecutable types of violence against women. They also created the Office of the Presidential Commission Against Femicide, enforcing the concept in the government, as well as an anti-femicide unit of the National police. Some results of the laws have proved encouraging, allowing many women to now report violence perpetrated against them. In the first month of 2010, a total of 27,000 women reported violence against them to the state, a large increase in the number of reported crimes. The laws also have helped several people jail their assailants and has increased the severity of punishments for perpetrators. However, the actual enforcement of the new laws has been varied. Few offenders are ever actually convicted for the specific crime of femicide, and there are only three public prosecution offices in the entire country able to deal with the issue of femicide. In fact, only 127 convictions in 2010 occurred for female violence even though 46,000 cases overall were registered. Also, from 2000-2008, 98 percent of all femicide cases have still remained in impunity. Some feminists argue that the culture in Guatemala is to blame. They cite that many male judges and other male government officials are sympathetic to the view that men's actions are justified because they remain within the private sphere of the home. Attorney Romeo Silverio Gonzalez argued for this viewpoint when he stated that the new laws of Decree 22 were unconstitutional. He said that the laws were in contradiction to the private affairs of marriage. Attorney General Claudia Paz countered his viewpoint ultimately defending the laws by justifying their existence because they protect women's rights. Overall, the legislation of these new laws has helped Guatemala improve the awareness of femicide and reporting of the crime, but enforcement and justice for femicide still has not been totally achieved. Femicide as the socially tolerated murder of women in Guatemala relies on the presence of systematic impunity, historically rooted gender inequalities, and the pervasive normalization of violence as a social relation.\n\nColombia has followed 16 other Latin American Countries by passing a law that define and punish femicide for being a specific crime. On July 6, 2015 the government of Colombia passed a law that legally defines femicide as a crime with 20 to 50 years of jail time. This new law is named after Rosa Elvira Cely, a Colombian woman who was raped and murdered in 2012. Cely’s death sparked national outrage and caused thousands to march down the streets of Bogota. Her murderer was found guilty and sentenced to 48 years in prison. The challenge now becomes implementing the law. Miguel Emilio La Rota, head of public policy and planning at Colombia’s attorney general’s office, said that the prosecutor’s office must change the way it investigates femicide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23094473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23094473", "title": "Fieldfisher", "text": "Fieldfisher\n\nFieldfisher LLP is an international law firm headquartered in London, United Kingdom. It has approximately 700 lawyers across offices in Amsterdam, Beijing, Belfast, Birmingham, Bologna, Brussels, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg, London, Luxembourg, Manchester, Milan, Munich, Palo Alto, Paris, Rome, Shanghai, Turin and Venice and is the UK’s 29th-largest law firm measured by 2015/16 revenues. The firm has practices in sectors including Real Estate, Energy, Financial Services, Government & Public Services, Hotels & Leisure, Life Sciences, Media, Telecoms and Technology. The firm's origins can be traced back to the founding of the law firm Field Roscoe & Co. by Edwin Wilkins Field in 1835. \n\nThe origins of Fieldfisher can be traced back to the founding of the law firm Field Roscoe & Co. by Edwin Wilkins Field in 1835. In 1865 Theodore Waterhouse founded Waterhouse & Co. In 1897 Charles Fisher started his articles with Thomas Peacock, which later became TF Peacock Fisher. In 1930 Field Roscoe merged with Treherne Higgins. In 1969 Field Roscoe and TF Peacock Fisher merged to form Field Fisher & Co. \n\nIn 1972 Field Fisher & Co. merged with Martineau and Reid to become Field Fisher Martineau. Field Fisher Waterhouse was created in 1989 by the merger of Field Fisher Martineau and Waterhouse & Co. Field Fisher Martineau was located at Lincoln’s Inn House in Holborn, close to Red Lion Square, a very convenient location for the law courts. Waterhouse & Co was originally located near St Paul's Cathedral and in 1971 had just nine partners; at the time all British law firms were fairly small they were not permitted to have more than twenty partners until 1968. The combined firm moved to new premises in Vine Street in June 1990.\n\nThe oil company Shell was a key client of Waterhouse & Co. and the firm worked on all of Shell’s major real estate deals, in particular its move to the Shell Centre in the 1950s. The firm’s relationship with Shell led to the development of a Japanese desk following a recommendation to Mitsubishi Bank by Shell.\n\nIn 1998 Field Fisher Waterhouse merged with Allison & Humphreys (A&H). A&H was a media and communications specialist and complemented Field Fisher Waterhouse’s IT and internet expertise. The BBC was one of the key clients that A&H lawyers brought to the firm.\n\nIn June 2006 Field Fisher Waterhouse converted to LLP status.\n\nIn 2007 the firm took its first steps into Europe; in April offices were established in Brussels and Hamburg, and in November an office in Paris was opened. The firm subsequently opened additional German offices in Munich and Düsseldorf.\n\nIn September 2012 the firm opened an office in Palo Alto, California. \n\nIn July 2013 Field Fisher Waterhouse merged with the Chinese law firm Ryser & Associates, with Ryser being renamed Field Fisher Ryser but continuing to operate as a financially separate partnership. \n\nOn 1 April 2014 Field Fisher Waterhouse merged with the Manchester-based law firm Heatons.\n\nIn May 2014 the firm was renamed Fieldfisher and its London office moved to Riverbank House, a Thames-side premises adjacent to London Bridge.\n\nIn July 2016 Fieldfisher merged with the Italian law firm Studio Associato Servizi Professionali Integrati (SASPI), which had offices in Milan, Rome, Venice and Turin. SASPI changed its name to Fieldfisher upon completion of the merger.\n\nIn November 2016 Fieldfisher merged with the Birmingham-based commercial law firm Hill Hofstetter. In the same month Fieldfisher merged with the Beijing-based law firm JS Partners, and the firm's relationship with Shanghai-based Ryser & Associates was simultaneously dissolved.\n\nIn May 2017, Fieldfisher launched an Amsterdam office and in 2018 it opened in Frankfurt, Luxembourg and Belfast.\n\nFieldfisher has the following main practice areas:\n\n"}
{"id": "3947639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3947639", "title": "Franco-Monégasque Treaties", "text": "Franco-Monégasque Treaties\n\nThe Franco-Monégasque Treaties of 1861, 1918 and 2002 are the basis of the relationship between France and the Principality of Monaco. The treaties define Monaco's independent status and sovereignty, as well as the rights of succession of the princely House of Grimaldi.\n\nThe Franco-Monégasque Treaty of 1861 recognised the sovereignty of Monaco. Previously, under the Treaty of Vienna, the principality had been a protectorate of the Kingdom of Sardinia.\n\nA second treaty was agreed on July 17, 1918, owing to the Monaco Succession Crisis of 1918 near the end of the First World War. At the time the heir to the Monégasque throne had no legitimate children, and the possibility of his German cousins, the Dukes of Urach, succeeding in the future to the throne was unacceptable to the French. Pressure was brought to bear on the Monégasques to ratify treaty provisions which would empower France to prevent such an occurrence.\n\nA third treaty was signed on October 24, 2002. The new treaty addressed issues of sovereignty raised by the 2002 revision of Monaco's constitution. Under those constitutional revisions, approved by the 2002 treaty, although only a \"born\" member of the Grimaldi line may now wear the Crown, Monaco assumes the unilateral prerogative to alter the order of succession and the principality's independence is explicitly secured. This resolved Monégasque concerns that under the 1918 treaty dynastic acts affecting the succession (such as marriage or adoption within the reigning House of Grimaldi) required French assent, yet if a vacancy on the throne occurred, Monaco would have automatically become a French protectorate. That prospect no longer exists.\n"}
{"id": "1351155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1351155", "title": "Gonghe Regency", "text": "Gonghe Regency\n\nThe Gonghe Regency () was an interregnum period in Chinese history from 841 to 828 BC, after King Li of Zhou was exiled by his nobles until the ascension of his son, King Xuan of Zhou. (\"The Cambridge History of Ancient China\" gives the starting date as 842.)\n\nAccording to the Han Dynasty historian Sima Qian (who interpreted \"Gonghe\" as 'joint harmony' in his \"Records of the Grand Historian\"), during the Gonghe regency, the Zhou Dynasty was ruled jointly by two dukes—the Duke of Zhou (not to be confused with the first and most well-known Duke of Zhou, who must have been his ancestor) and the Duke of Shao (召公—similarly, not to be confused with the first and most well-known Duke of Shao). But according to the \"Bamboo Annals\", the Gonghe regency was ruled by a single person—the Count of Gong (共伯), whose name was He (和). This reading has almost certainly been confirmed by a bronze inscription.\n\nThe first year of the Gonghe regency, 841 BC, is highly significant in ancient Chinese history, in that Sima Qian was able to construct a year-by-year chronology back to that point, but he and subsequent historians were unable to confidently date any earlier events in Chinese history. Sima himself found the information about earlier dates in his sources to be unreliable and contradictory and so chose not to adopt them in his work. The government of the People's Republic of China sponsored the Xia–Shang–Zhou Chronology Project, a multidisciplinary project that sought to give better estimates for dates prior to 841 BC, but the project's draft report, published in 2000, has been criticized by various scholars.\n\nAlthough the term \"gonghe\" was borrowed into modern Chinese for the word 'republic', the Gonghe period during the Zhou Dynasty does not confer any republican connotations.\n"}
{"id": "1359358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1359358", "title": "Harkin–Engel Protocol", "text": "Harkin–Engel Protocol\n\nThe Harkin–Engel Protocol, sometimes referred to as the Cocoa Protocol, is an international agreement aimed at ending the worst forms of child labor (according to the International Labour Organization's Convention 182) and forced labor (according to ILO Convention 29) in the production of cocoa, the main ingredient in chocolate. The protocol was negotiated by U.S. Senator Tom Harkin and U.S. Representative Eliot Engel in response to a documentary and multiple articles in 2000 and 2001 reporting widespread child slavery and child trafficking in the production of cocoa. The protocol was signed in September 2001. Joint Statements in 2001, 2005 and 2008 and a Joint Declaration in 2010 extended the commitment to address the problem. , it is unclear if the protocol reduced child labor in the production of cocoa, though the cocoa industry claims five of the six articles have been addressed and the final one is being actively pursued.\n\nIn late 2000 a BBC documentary reported the use of enslaved children in the production of cocoa—the main ingredient in chocolate— in West Africa. Other media followed by reporting widespread child slavery and child trafficking in the production of cocoa. The cocoa industry was accused of profiting from child slavery and trafficking. The European Cocoa Association dismissed these accusations as \"false and excessive\" and the industry said the reports were not representative of all areas. Later the industry acknowledged the working conditions for children were unsatisfactory and children's rights were sometimes violated and acknowledged the claims could not be ignored.\n\nIn 2001, US Representative Eliot Engel introduced a legislative amendment to an agriculture bill. This amendment was to give the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) $250,000 to develop a label to indicate no child slave labor was used in growing or harvesting cocoa; this label would be similar to the \"dolphin safe\" labels used for tuna. The amendment was approved in the House of Representatives vote of 291–115. The bill appeared to have similar support in the Senate. The international cocoa industry strongly opposed it and the Chocolate Manufacturers Association hired former senators George Mitchell and Bob Dole to lobby against it. The cocoa industry faced potential consumer boycotts and harmful legislation if the bill were to pass. Mitchell and Dole encouraged the industry to make a deal, and before the bill went to a vote in the Senate, the cocoa industry agreed to address the problem without legislation.\n\nSenator Tom Harkin and Engel negotiated a deal with the cocoa industry to create the Harkin–Engel Protocol. The protocol was signed in September 2001 with the objective to eliminate the \"worst forms of child labor\" and adult forced labor on cocoa farms in West Africa. It was signed and witnessed by the heads of eight major chocolate companies, Harkin, Engel, Senator Herb Kohl, the ambassador of Côte d'Ivoire, the director of the International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labor, and others.\n\nThe Harkin–Engel Protocol is a voluntary public-private agreement to eliminate the worst forms of child labor (defined according to the International Labour Organization (ILO)'s Convention 182) in the growth and processing of cocoa in Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana. The protocol was a voluntary agreement that partnered governments, the global cocoa industry, cocoa producers, cocoa laborers, non-governmenal organizations. The agreement laid out a series of date-specific actions, including the development of voluntary standards of public certification. The Protocol did not commit the industry to ending all child labor in cocoa production, only the worst forms of it. The parties agreed to a six-article plan:\n\nA 2001 Joint Statement extended the protocol to also identify and eliminate forced labor (defined according to ILO Convention 29) in the production of cocoa.\n\nThe protocol laid out a non-binding agreement for the cocoa industry to regulate itself without any legal implications, but Engel threatened to reintroduce legislation if the deadlines were not met. This agreement was the one of the first times an American industry was subjected to self-regulation and one of the first times self-regulation was used to address an international human rights issue.\n\nBy July 2005—the deadline date—the cocoa industry made progress on their goal to eliminate the worst forms of child labor. Most of the requirements were achieved by the deadline. Before the protocol was signed, the cocoa industry acknowledged the problem of forced child labor to address part of Article 1. A Joint Statement was made in 2001 to address part of Article 3. The International Cocoa Initiative (ICI) was established in 2002 to address part of Article 5. Through the ICI, $3 million was spent on pilot projects. The International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) was assigned to survey West Africans about children in cocoa production. Pilot projects were formed to monitor child labor. In 2004, the cocoa industry created and funded Verification Working Group. The funding was discontinued in 2006, but another company was contracted to perform verification in 2007.\n\nBut all the protocol requirements were not met by the deadline. The cocoa industry failed to create and implement an industry-wide certification standard to indicate that cocoa had not been produced with the worst forms of child labor. The chocolate companies were criticized for executing the protocol at the smallest cost, remaining mostly hands-off in the process without changing the process, and maintaining a business model dependent on child labor. More importantly, they did not alter the price of chocolate to enable the cocoa producers to end the practice of slavery. One of the major obstacles to executing the protocol was the Ivorian Civil War. Along with diamonds and timber, cocoa was a conflict resource that made money for the militants.\n\nBy July 2005 the extent of child involvement in cocoa production was unclear. It was also unclear if the cocoa industry's efforts were helping the problem. On 1 July 2005, all the parties agreed to an extension of the protocol through a Joint Statement. The 2005 Joint Statement gave the cocoa industry three more years to implement the protocol. The Joint Statement stated industry would form a certification system for half of the growing regions in Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana. The Joint Statement also stated industry would support programs for the local cocoa-growing communities including teacher training programs.\n\nThe US Congress was not satisfied with the cocoa industry's response. It gave responsibility to the US Department of Labor to find a university contractor to oversee the efforts to eliminate the worst forms of child labor. In 2006, a $4.3 million contract was awarded to the Payson Center for International Development at Tulane University through 2009. In 2006, the Payson Center reported progress had been made, but children were still working in cocoa production, including performing dangerous tasks, and regularly miss school. The cocoa industry was criticized for a lack of certification standards and the governments of Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana were criticized for a lack of transparency. In 2006, the president of the World Cocoa Foundation said, \"While progress has been made and we have learned valuable lessons, much more is required.\"\n\nAfter the deadline passed, the International Labor Rights Fund filed a lawsuit in 2005 under the Alien Tort Claims Act against Nestle, Cargill and Archer Daniels Midland on behalf of three Malian children. The suit alleged the children were trafficked to Côte d'Ivoire, forced into slavery, and experienced frequent beatings on a cocoa plantation. In September 2010, the US District Court for the Central District of California determined corporations cannot be held liable for violations of international law and dismissed the suit. The case was appealed to the US Court of Appeals.\n\nBy the revised deadline—1 June 2008—all the objectives were still not met. Some progress had been made; for example, the cocoa industry had provided $10 million to the ICI. In 2006–07 the ICI had 17 training sessions in Côte d'Ivoire and 23 in Ghana to sensitize the governmental officials, police and media about child and adult labor practices. The focus of the Joint Statement was that of certification. The cocoa industry performed data collection had on 50% of the growing areas in both Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana. But independent verification, partially funded by industry, on those areas was not fully completed. The deadline was extended until the end of 2010. At that time, industry was required to have a full certification and independent verification.\n\nAll parties reaffirmed their commitment to eliminate the worst forms of child labor. The cocoa industry committed to work with the governments of Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana to set up independent certification by the end of 2010; assist the governments to target remediation efforts based on the independent certification; and support the ICI as it expands to more local communities and provide training on safe labor practices.\n\nIn 2009, cocoa from Côte d'Ivoire and Nigeria was added to a list of products made by forced child labor maintained by the Department of Labor. This listing stemmed from a request by Anti-Slavery International in 2004 to investigate if Ivorian cocoa should be on this list. Executive Order 13126 requires federal contractors who supply products on the list must prove they have made a good faith effort to determine if the products were produced under forced labor. Thus contractors must prove they have made a good faith effort to determine if cocoa was produced under forced labor. Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana were placed on the 2009 US State Department's Tier 2 Watch List for human trafficking due in part to the trafficking of children in cocoa production.\n\nIn 2009 the Department of Labor awarded a second, $1.2 million contract to the Payson Center to continue the oversight through 2011.\n\nThe 2010 Joint Declaration summarized the pledge of the Harkin–Engel Protocol and reaffirmed the commitment to achieve the objectives of the protocol. The purpose of the framework of action was to reduce the worst forms of child labor 70% by 2020. Specifically, they were to remove children from and prevent children's involvement in the worst forms of child labor, promote sustainable livelihoods for cocoa growers, establish and implement community-based child labor monitoring systems, and continue national child labor surveys. The Joint Declaration established the Child Labor Cocoa Coordinating Group to coordinate the activities of the framework and provide governance.\n\nTo achieve the goals, the governments of Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana must fund and conduct child labor surveys, provide remediation for children removed from the worst forms of child labor, prevent children from becoming involved in the worst forms of child labor, enforce laws to protect the children from the worst forms of child labor, and develop the infrastructure of the cocoa growing regions. The responsibility of the cocoa and chocolate industries is to continue to support the child labor surveys, support remediation efforts, provide sustainable livelihoods for the households of cocoa growers, try to ensure cocoa supply chains are using safe practices. The industries will commit $7 million over the next five years with the possibility of $3 million more for remediation activities. The responsibility of the US Department of Labor is to commit $10 million in 2010 for a multi-year program to support the framework and report on the progress of these efforts.\n\nHousehold surveys and governmental research in Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana showed that there were 1.8 million children working in cocoa agriculture. About 5% in Côte d'Ivoire and 10% in Ghana worked for pay. Children are commonly involved in hazardous work and some are still involved in the worst forms of child labor.\n\nBetween 2001 and 2009, several thousand children were involved in remediation activities including in each country. These activities include withdrawal, rehabilitation, reinsertion, education and vocational training and these efforts were attributed to funding related to the Harkin–Engel Protocol. Less than 5% of all children were exposed to activities related to the protocol.\n\nIn 2011, the Payson Center reported the cocoa industry has not fully completed any of the six articles. Industry had not completed the 2005 Joint Statement commitment of certification for 50% of the growing areas in the two countries, much less the 2008 Joint Statement commitment of remediation activities in 100% of the growing areas. Côte d'Ivoire had only achieved remediation in 3.8% and Ghana in 31% of the growing areas.\n\nThe cocoa industry still has to prove it can self-regulate. The Payson Center recommended the industry create a certification system that can assure consumers the worst forms of child labor are not used in production, create an independent verification of that certification system, implement child labor monitoring systems, and increase remediation activities to address the worst forms of child labor.\n\nIn 2001, the Child Labor Coalition, a collection of advocacy groups focusing on child labor issues in the US and worldwide, criticized the protocol for only addressing Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana. It suggested extending the protocol to the whole world, because exploitative practices were also reported in the cocoa industries in Brazil and Indonesia. The Child Labor Coalition also recommended that the chocolate industry set the price of chocolate so that the producers make enough money to fairly compensate their workers.\n\nIn 2011, ten years after implementation, it was unclear if the protocol had any effect in reducing child labor. One Payson Center researcher claimed few of the protocol commitments have been implemented, but the ICI claimed five of the six articles have been completed and they are actively working on the sixth.\n\nIn 2012, , creator of the award-winning documentary, \"The Dark Side of Chocolate\", claimed the protocol is just “a document and politics” because there has been no progress. He thinks that the same issues will be present in five years and that changes will not come through the protocol, but instead from consumers who demand change.\n\nThe protocol is formally called \"Protocol for the Growing and Processing of Cocoa Beans and Their Derivative Products In a Manner that Complies with ILO Convention 182 Concerning the Prohibition and Immediate Action for the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labor.\" \nIt has also been reported that this vote was 107–76, but the final Payson report has the result as 291–115.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "315060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315060", "title": "Hudna", "text": "Hudna\n\nA hudna (from the Arabic meaning \"calm\" or \"quiet\") is a truce or armistice. It is sometimes translated as \"cease-fire\". In his medieval dictionary of classical Arabic, the \"Lisan al-Arab\", Ibn al-Manzur defined it as:\n\nA famous early \"hudna\" was the Treaty of Hudaybiyyah between Muhammad and the Quraysh tribe.\n\nIn English, the term is most frequently used in reference to a ceasefire agreement in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, particularly one that would involve organizations such as Hamas. The concept of \"hudna\" was first introduced by Yasser Arafat in a secretly recorded 1994 speech in a Johannesburg mosque, where he repeatedly belittled the Oslo Accords as a mere \"hudna\", and cited the precedent set by Muhammad with the tribe of Quraish to back his position. The concept was also proposed to reduce violence in the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians by a Queen's University Belfast Professor in the period of 1999–2003 as a result of protracted negotiations with the Hamas leadership in the Gaza Strip, West Bank and abroad in countries like Lebanon and Syria. Some others claim that Israeli businessman Eyal Erlich in 2001, after seeing a \"hudna\" being declared in order to calm a feud in Jordan (cf. \"Haaretz\", January 2, 2002); introduced the idea, unsuccessfully, that Israel should suggest a mutual \"hudna\" as a prelude to a more lasting peace.\n\nDespite the Israeli government's rejection of the idea, in summer 2003—following many years of negotiation and facilitation from European advisors and diplomats along with pressure from Abu Mazen and Egypt—Hamas and Islamic Jihad unilaterally declared a 45-day ceasefire, or \"hudna\". Its proponents commonly argued that such a cease-fire would allow for important violence reduction and act as a confidence-building measure to make further conflict resolution and peace negotiations possible; its opponents commonly argued that it would be a mere tactical maneuver enabling Palestinian groups to re-group and muster their strength in preparation for further attacks on Israelis, or Israel to continue expanding settlements, blockading Palestinian towns, and arresting members of such groups. The \"hudna\" started on June 29, 2003.\n\nIn an IDF operation to arrest Hamas militants, a gunfight broke out in which an Israeli soldier and two alleged Hamas militants were killed. Hamas responded with a suicide bombing on August 12, killing one Israeli civilian. Fatah claimed responsibility for a second suicide bombing on August 12 that killed another Israeli citizen. Despite this \"de facto\" violation of the \"hudna\", Hamas stated that the cease-fire would continue. Hostilities then escalated: the Israeli army killed Islamic Jihad's Muhammad Seeder on August 14; the Jerusalem bus 2 massacre by Hamas and Islamic Jihad on August 19 killed 23 and wounded 136 people; and Israeli forces killed Hamas's Ismail Abu Shanab on August 21. After the killing of the two high-ranking leaders, Hamas eventually called off the \"hudna\".\n\nIn January 2004, senior Hamas leader Abdel Aziz al-Rantissi offered a 10-year \"hudna\" in return for complete withdrawal from all territories captured in the Six-Day War, the establishment of a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza, and the unlimited \"right of return\" for all Palestinian refugees into Israel. Rantissi gave interviews with European reporters and said the \"hudna\" was limited to ten years and represented a decision by the movement because it was \"difficult to liberate all our land at this stage; the hudna would however not signal a recognition of the state of Israel.\" Hamas later repudiated the offer when mentioning it to Arabic media outlets, saying they would never compromise with Israel and would keep fighting until their goals were met; Israel ignored Hamas' posturing since the demand for a Palestinian \"right of return\" was not going to be granted under any circumstances. Ian Lustick tried in 2010 to revive the hudna notion in an article posted on the Forbes website where he said Israel needed to negotiate with Hamas, but Lustick misrepresented the terms of the hudna, first by claiming it was supposed to last for a generation (25 years) and by presenting it as a comparative model for the relationship that Israeli Arabs have with Israel's Jewish majority, which left out the specifics of the plan wherein Israel would be replaced by a Muslim-majority \"Palestine\" under its implementation (a concept Lustick would write in support of for the \"New York Times\" in 2013).\n\n"}
{"id": "44446008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44446008", "title": "Jacobo Rios Rodriguez", "text": "Jacobo Rios Rodriguez\n\nJacobo Ríos Rodríguez is \"Maître de Conférences\" in International Public Law and Vice-Dean of the Faculty of Law of University of Perpignan Via Domitia (Associate Professor/Senior Lecturer, French civil servant), where he is also Coordinator of International Programs.\n\nHis research topics focus on the role of the individual on the international legal order, especially on themes such as migration (trafficking and smuggling), human rights, international organizations experts, UN governance, cinematic representation of law, universal jurisdiction in the prosecution of international crimes, and environmental law. With regard to the field of international migration, he has participated in the Centre for Studies and Research in International Law and International Relations, The Hague Academy of International Law, 2010. His publications have appeared in three different languages, edited by French publishers (Dalloz, La Documentation française, Pedone, Société de législation comparée ...), English publishers (Hart Publishing - Oxford), Spanish publishers (Tirant lo Blanch) and Belgian publishers (Bruylant). He has also published articles on international law in several newspapers.\n\nHe holds a PhD in Law from the Universities of Paris I Panthéon-Sorbonne (France) and La Coruña (Spain), a master's degree in International Law and International Organizations from the University of Paris I Panthéon-Sorbonne and an \"Habilitation à diriger des recherches - HDR\" from the University of Perpignan Via Domitia (highest university degree in France) which entitles him to supervise PhD theses.\n\nDr. Ríos has two nationalities, Spanish and French. He has published two monographs and about thirty articles. He has also edited two collective works, organized several symposiums and participated in a wide range of symposiums and conferences. Moreover, Dr. Ríos is a member of the \"Société française pour le droit international\" (SFDI) and of the \"Asociación española de profesores de Derecho Internacional y Relaciones Internacionales\" (AEPDIRI), and he has also collaborated as an expert with the \"Agence nationale de la recherche\" (ANR) in France.\n"}
{"id": "1508121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1508121", "title": "John Gardner (legal philosopher)", "text": "John Gardner (legal philosopher)\n\nJohn Gardner FBA (born 23 March 1965) is a Scottish legal philosopher. He is senior research fellow at All Souls College, Oxford University, and was previously the Professor of Jurisprudence at the University of Oxford and fellow of University College, Oxford.\n\nGardner attended Glasgow Academy from 1970 to 1982. The following year he moved to the University of Oxford, where he received his BA, BCL (winning the Vinerian Scholarship), MA, and DPhil, under the supervision of Joseph Raz and Tony Honoré. He has been associated with New College (as a student, 1983–7), All Souls College (as a fellow, 1986–91 and 1998–2000), and Brasenose College (as a fellow, 1991–1996). From 1996 to 2000 he was reader in legal philosophy at King's College London. In 2000, at the age of just 35, he was appointed professor of jurisprudence, taking over the chair previously held by H. L. A. Hart and Ronald Dworkin. In summer 2016 he took up a senior research fellowship at All Souls.\n\nGardner has held several visiting positions, including at Columbia (2000), Yale (2002–3, 2005), Princeton (2008), the Australian National University (2003, 2006, 2008), and most recently Cornell (2015). A barrister since 1988, Gardner was elected a Bencher of the Honourable Society of the Inner Temple (one of the Inns of Court) in 2002.\n\nHe was elected a fellow of the British Academy in 2013.\n\nGardner writes on general jurisprudence, the philosophical foundations of tort law and criminal law, and moral philosophy. He describes Tony Honoré, his colleague since 1986, as his mentor; and says he owes his approach to general jurisprudence to H. L. A. Hart. His work is often compared to that of Joseph Raz. Gardner is also influenced by Aristotle and by Bernard Williams, one of his DPhil examiners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5910993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5910993", "title": "John Randolph Tucker (politician)", "text": "John Randolph Tucker (politician)\n\nJohn Randolph Tucker (December 24, 1823 – February 13, 1897) was an American lawyer, author, and politician from Virginia. From a distinguished slaveholding family, he was elected Virginia's attorney general in 1857 and after re-election served during the American Civil War (James S. Wheat served as attorney general in Union-held portions of the state). After a pardon and Congressional Reconstruction, Tucker was elected as U.S. Congressman (1875-1887), and later served as the first dean of the Washington and Lee University Law School.\n\nTucker was born in Winchester, Virginia on Christmas eve in 1823, the son of Anna Evalina Hunter Tucker (1789-1855) and her husband Judge Henry St. George Tucker (1780-1848). A grandson of St. George Tucker, J.R. Tucker would become proud of his heritage among the First Families of Virginia. His father and many relatives owned plantations and enslaved persons. Nonetheless, several of his siblings never reached adulthood. His brothers Dr. Alfred Bland Tucker (1830-1862) and Lt.Col. St. George Hunter Tucker (1828-1863) would die of consumption while in the Confederate States Army; his brother Dr. David Hunter Tucker (1815-1871) became a professor at three medical schools including the Medical College of Virginia and survived his Confederate service. His brother Nathaniel Beverley Tucker (1820-1890) would become a Confederate diplomat and later a journalist.\n\nJohn Randolph Tucker attended a private school near his Winchester home, then entered the Richmond Academy. He finished his studies at the University of Virginia, graduating with a legal degree in 1844.\n\nHe married Laura Powell in 1848. They had one son who survived to adulthood, Henry St. George Tucker, III (who later became a U.S. Congressman). Their daughters who married well and survived their parents included: Anne Holmes Tucker McGuire (1850 - 1914), Gertrude Tucker Logan (1856 - 1925), and Laura Randolph Tucker Pendleton (1860 - 1946).\n\nJohn Randolph Tucker was admitted to the Virginia bar in 1845, and began a private legal practice in Winchester. In 1854 he delivered a major speech to the literary societies at College of William and Mary which argued that slavery was consistent with republicanism. He also became active in politics and was a presidential elector on the Democratic ticket in 1852 and 1856.\n\nVoters elected Tucker Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1857, and he served during the American Civil War, until the Commonwealth surrendered to Union forces in 1865. His siblings also actively supported the Confederate cause, two as Confederate doctors, Nathaniel Beverley Tucker as a Confederate diplomat, and his lawyer brother St. George Hunter Tucker recruited the Ashland Grays (part of the 15th Virginia Infantry) and served at Lt. Col., winning plaudits for his conduct at the Battle of Malvern Hill before resigning his commission and dying of consumption in Charlottesville in 1863.\n\nJ. Randolph Tucker received a pardon and resumed his private legal practice.\n\nElected to the United States House of Representatives as a Democrat in 1875, he served until 1887. He was chairman of the House Committee on Ways and Means in the 46th Congress and chairman of the House Committee on the Judiciary in the 48th and 49th Congresses.\n\nHe took an active part in the debates on the tariff, in opposition to the protective policy. His speeches on other questions include those on the Electoral Commission bill, the constitutional doctrine as to the presidential count, the Hawaiian treaty in 1876, the use of the army at the polls, in 1879, and Chinese emigration, in 1883. He introduced legislation broadening the power of the federal Court of Claims to hear Constitutional claims in 1886, which became known as the Tucker Act. He declined to be renominated to the House in 1886. He was co-sponsor of the 1887 Edmunds–Tucker Act.\n\nTucker was an exemplar of the racist views of his day. Speaking on the House floor, he asserted that “We did not ordain and establish this Constitution for the Chinaman and for all the other races of the earth. . . . I hold that this Constitution was ordained and established by our fathers for their posterity of the Caucasian people of America.” Not surprisingly, he was also not supportive of the post-Civil War push to grant rights to African Americans, declaring that “. . . there is not a philosophical statesman in this land who to-day does not say either that the citizenship and the voting power of the African race in the South is a failure--either that or that it is an unsolved problem of our future. We have that one disease in the body-politic, which God grant we may recover from.”\n\n\nTucker made an unsuccessful but legally influential argument on behalf of August Spies and the other Haymarket Riot defendants during their appeal to the Supreme Court. Elected professor of Constitutional law at Washington and Lee University in 1888, Tucker was Dean of the School of Law from 1893 to 1897. Tucker served as president of The Virginia Bar Association in 1891-1892, and president of the American Bar Association in 1894.\n\nJohn Randolph Tucker died in 1897 in Lexington, Virginia and is buried in the family plot at Mt. Hebron cemetery in Winchester. His widow would join him in 1916. One of his sons, Henry St. George Tucker, III, would follow in his footsteps by becoming Dean of the Washington and Lee Law School, and later a U.S. Congressman representing Winchester (1922-1932). J.R.Tucker's two volume treatise, \"The Constitution of the United States\", appeared posthumously in 1899. His Lexington home, Blandome was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40799825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40799825", "title": "L Taylor v AE Pim", "text": "L Taylor v AE Pim\n\nIn L. Taylor v AE Pim, an important case in the South African law of succession, the deceased was a widow who hired a man, Pim, to assist with her business after her husband died. She subsequently began dating the man; she also started developing severe alcoholism. In terms of her will, Pim was to be the sole heir of her assets.\n\nShortly before the deceased’s death, she and Pim were on holiday together. When the deceased fell ill, Pim refused to allow the hotel in which they were staying to call a doctor for her. Finally, they insisted it was their duty to call one, who duly arrived. Due to the doctor's late arrival, however, she died.\n\nThe court held that, although Pim had not caused her death, he had allowed the testatrix to lead an immoral life, and was the one who had encouraged her alcohol abuse; therefore, he was unworthy to inherit from her estate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21492150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21492150", "title": "List of politicians, lawyers, and civil servants educated at Jesus College, Oxford", "text": "List of politicians, lawyers, and civil servants educated at Jesus College, Oxford\n\nJesus College is one of the constituent colleges of the University of Oxford in England. The college was founded in 1571 by Queen Elizabeth I at the request of Hugh Price, a Welsh clergyman, who was Treasurer of St David's Cathedral in Pembrokeshire. The college still has strong links with Wales, and about 15% of students are Welsh. There are 340 undergraduates and 190 students carrying out postgraduate studies. Women have been admitted since 1974, when the college was one of the first five men's colleges to become co-educational. Old members of Jesus College are sometimes known as \"Jesubites\".\n\nHarold Wilson studied at Jesus College from 1934 to 1937, and was later the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom during two periods (from October 1964 to June 1970, and from March 1974 to April 1976). More than 30 other Members of Parliament (MPs) have been educated at the college, from Sir John Salusbury who was elected as MP for Denbighshire in 1601 to Theresa Villiers who was elected as MP for Chipping Barnet in 2005. Sir Leoline Jenkins, who became a Fellow and later the Principal of the college, was Secretary of State for the Northern Department from 1680 to 1681 and Secretary of State for the Southern Department from 1681 to 1685. Sir William Williams served as Speaker of the House of Commons from 1680 to 1685 and as Solicitor General for England and Wales from 1687 to 1689. Evan Cotton was MP for Finsbury East before holding the position of President of the Bengal Legislative Council from 1922 to 1925. Several Welsh politicians have been educated at the college, some representing constituencies in Wales (such as Sir John Wogan, representing Pembrokeshire at various times between 1614 and 1644) and others working outside Parliament, such as D. J. Williams, a co-founder of the Welsh nationalist party Plaid Cymru.\n\nOther students at the college have subsequently held political offices in other countries. Norman Washington Manley was Chief Minister of Jamaica from 1955 to 1962. P. T. Rajan was Chief Minister of Madras Presidency between April and August 1936. Heather Wilson was the first Old Member of the college to sit in the United States House of Representatives, where she represented New Mexico's 1st congressional district from 1998 to 2009. The Australian politician Neal Blewett was a member of the Australian House of Representatives from 1977 to 1994, a Government Minister from 1983 to 1994 and High Commissioner to the UK from 1994 to 1998. Pixley ka Isaka Seme, who studied for a BCL between 1906 and 1909, was one of the founder members of the African National Congress.\n\nSeveral prominent judges and lawyers were educated at the college. Viscount Sankey, who was Lord Chancellor from 1929 to 1935, studied for a BA in History and BCL between 1885 and 1891. Lord du Parcq was appointed as a Lord of Appeal in Ordinary in 1946. Sir Richard Richards became Lord Chief Baron of the Exchequer in 1817. The Scottish MP and lawyer Lord Murray was appointed a Senator of the College of Justice in 1979. The solicitor Sir David Lewis was Lord Mayor of the City of London from 2007 to 2008. Other lawyers who studied at the college include James Chadwin QC, who defended the Yorkshire Ripper, and Sir Arthur James, who prosecuted the Great Train Robbers and later became a judge of the Court of Appeal. Academic lawyers include J Duncan M Derrett, Professor of Oriental Laws in the University of London from 1965 to 1982, and Alfred Hazel, Reader in English Law at All Souls College, Oxford.\n\n\n\nThe subject studied and the degree classification are included, where known. Until the early 19th century, undergraduates read for a Bachelor of Arts degree that included study of Latin and Greek texts, mathematics, geometry, philosophy and theology. Individual subjects at undergraduate level were only introduced later: for example, Mathematics (1805), Natural Science (1850), Jurisprudence (1851, although it had been available before this to students who obtained special permission), Modern History (1851) and Theology (1871). Geography and Modern Languages were introduced in the 20th century. Music had been available as a specialist subject before these changes; medicine was studied as a post-graduate subject.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "3359655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3359655", "title": "Local Government Act 2001", "text": "Local Government Act 2001\n\nThe Local Government Act, 2001 (No. 37 of 2001) was enacted by the Oireachtas of Ireland on 21 July 2001. Most of the provisions of the Act came into operation on 1 January 2002. The act was a restatement and amendment of previous legislation, which was centred on the Local Government (Ireland) Act 1898. The 2001 act remains in force, although significantly amended by the Local Government Reform Act 2014.\n\nAccording to the explanatory memorandum issued before the passing of the Act, its purposes were to:\n\nThe Act established local government areas based on those already created by previous legislation. The types of areas listed in the Act are:\n\nCounties: Identical to the administrative counties established by the Local Government (Ireland) Act 1898 and modified by later legislation. The opportunity was taken to rename Tipperary (North Riding) and Tipperary (South Riding) as North Tipperary and South Tipperary respectively.\n\nCities: These were the County boroughs created by the 1898 Act and later legislation, renamed. All the county boroughs except Galway had previously had the courtesy title of city by charter or letters patent.\n\nBoroughs: The five existing non-county boroughs continued in existence. In addition it was recognised that Kilkenny could continue to be called a city, in spite of being governed by a borough council and not being a former county borough.\n\nTowns: The remaining town authorities, formerly known as urban districts or towns with town commissioners, were all redesignated as towns.\n\nA council was established for each of the local government areas with the title county council, city council, borough council, or town council (as appropriate).\n\nOne of the most controversial aspects of the Act was the abolition of the so-called \"dual mandate\". This meant that members of the Oireachtas (Dáil Éireann and Seanad Éireann) could no longer be candidates for local authority elections. This was taken out of the original act after protests from Fianna Fáil backbenchers who were also councillors. It was introduced in a 2003 amendment after a compensation package was agreed.\n\nInspired by the office of Mayor of London created in 2000, Chapter 3 of Part 5 of the 2001 act as passed provided for a directly-elected chairperson (mayor or \"cathaoirleach\") of each county and city council. This was to take effect from the 2004 local elections. However, a 2003 amendment repealed the provision before it was implemented.\n\nPart 11 of the Act mandated the establishment of a permanent Local Government Commission to propose changes to local authority areas, local electoral areas, or local authority powers. This part never came into force and was repealed by the 2014 act. The previous practice of ad-hoc committees for boundary reviews continued after 2001 and was formalised by the 2014 act.\n"}
{"id": "47044269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47044269", "title": "Marine Insurance Act 1745", "text": "Marine Insurance Act 1745\n\nThe Marine Insurance Act 1745 (19 Geo. 2 c.37) was an Act of Parliament of the Parliament of Great Britain. The Act has been described as \"the first significant statutory intervention in substantive marine insurance law\".\n\nThe purpose of the Act was to put an end to the practice of wagering disguised as insurance upon marine vessels. Persons who had no commercial interest in a marine cargo would take out a policy of insurance in the marine form, essentially gambling upon whether or not the ship would safely arrive at its destination. Concern was expressed that, apart from general policies against gambling, this also created a positive incentive for certain parties to overload ships and ensure that they were dispatched in risky condition.\n\nAccordingly, the Act introduced into English law for the first time the requirement of an \"insurable interest\" in the subject matter of a policy of insurance. This requirement was later replicated for life insurance in the Life Assurance Act 1774. Neither statute sought to define an insurable interest, and it was not until the decision of the courts in \"Lucena v Craufurd\" in 1806 that an insurable interest was first defined as \"A right in the property, or a right derivable out of some contract about the property, which in either case may be lost upon some contingency affecting the possession or enjoyment of the party.\"\n\nThe Act is extremely short. The entire text (including the preamble) is set out below:\n\nThe Act remained substantively in force until it was incorporated into the Marine Insurance Act 1906. \n"}
{"id": "5967961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5967961", "title": "Misclassification of employees as independent contractors", "text": "Misclassification of employees as independent contractors\n\nMisclassification of employees as independent contractors in the United States can occur with respect to tax treatment or the Fair Labor Standards Act.\n\nThe U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) reports that the IRS claims to lose millions of dollars in uncollected payroll, social security, Medicare and unemployment insurance taxes because of misclassification of independent contractors by taxpayers.\n\nAccording to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner Mark W. Everson in a statement made November 3, 2005, IRS audits of small businesses organized as corporations increased from 7,294 in 2004 to 17,867 in 2005. \n\nEmployers must report the incomes of employees and independent contractors using the IRS forms W-2 and 1099, respectively. Employers pay various taxes (i.e. Social Security and Medicare taxes, unemployment taxes, etc.) on the wages of a worker that is classified as an employee. These taxes are generally not paid by the employer on the compensation of a worker classified as an independent contractor. Instead, the contractor is responsible for their employer's share of the taxes when he or she pays self-employment taxes at the end of the year.\n\nClassification affects whether a worker can receive unemployment benefits. In many states, independent contractors are not eligible for unemployment benefits because nothing has been paid into the unemployment insurance fund on their behalf. Employers who have no employees are not required to make payments to the unemployment insurance fund (since there is no one to claim benefits).\n\nWorkers classified as independent contractors whose contract is terminated can contact their state unemployment agency (for example Employment Development Department (EDD) in California) and file a claim for unemployment. EDD investigates and determines whether the worker was misclassified, and potentially award unemployment benefits. According to state-level studies, 10% to 20% of employers misclassify at least one worker as an independent contractor.\n\nIRS reclassification as an employee occurs where persons claimed as (or claiming to be) independent contractors are recategorized by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), or by state tax authorities, as W-2 employees. The reclassification can result in the imposition of substantial fines, penalties and back-taxes for which the employer is generally liable.\n\nIRS regulations state that a worker is an employee if the employer can control what is to be done and how it is to be done. This was codified in revenue ruling 87-41, and is generally called \"the twenty factor test\". By contrast, if the worker controls the means and method of achieving the required results, leaving the employer with the right only to define the desired result, they are correctly classified as an independent contractor.\n\nEmployees and independent contractors have very different benefits. Employees are entitled to the protection of wage and hour laws and are protected from discrimination and retaliation by employers. Employees may be legally entitled to family medical leave and benefits such as medical insurance and pension plans. Employees are entitled to bargain collectively with their employers. Employees are entitled to workers' compensation for job-related injuries and employers must pay into social security, Medicare, and unemployment insurance for their employees. No benefits or employer tax payments are available to contractors, who must pay for their own benefits and unemployment taxes.\n\nService sector employees are more likely than others to be misclassified as independent contractors. Commonly misclassified positions include delivery and taxi drivers, nurses and home health aides, housekeepers and adult entertainment workers.\n\nEfforts by firms in the sharing economy such as Uber to maintain independent contractor status for \"partners\" such as Uber drivers have been questioned.\n\nIRS Form SS-8 can be filed with the IRS to request that the agency determine the classification of a worker.\n\nIn July 2015, the U.S. Department of Labor issued new guidelines on worker classification. \"A worker who is economically dependent on an employer is suffered or permitted to work by the employer. Thus, applying the economic realities test in view of the expansive definition of \"employ\" under the Act, most workers are employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31183975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31183975", "title": "Non ultra petita", "text": "Non ultra petita\n\nIn law, the principle of non ultra petita, meaning \"not beyond the request\" in Latin, means that a court may not decide more than it has been asked to. In particular, the court may not award more to the winning party than it requested. The same principle is expressed in the Latin brocard \"Ne eat iudex ultra petita partium aut breviter ne ultra petita\", often abbreviated to \"ne ultra petita\".\n\nThe principle is a traditional basis of the rules of procedure governing civil and administrative litigation in continental legal systems, and in public international law. In contrast, it does not apply in criminal proceedings.\n\nIt is closely related to the disposition principle (also called \"principle of party disposition\" or \"principle of free disposition\"), also a traditional feature of continental legal systems. It states that in civil and administrative cases, the parties are free to dispose of their claims – advancing, withholding or withdrawing them as they see fit – and may thereby control the course of the litigation.\n"}
{"id": "21243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21243", "title": "Nortel", "text": "Nortel\n\nNortel Networks Corporation (Nortel), formerly commonly known as Northern Electric and Northern Telecom, was a multinational telecommunications and data networking equipment manufacturer headquartered in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada. It was founded in Montreal, Quebec in 1895 as the Northern Electric and Manufacturing Company. Until an antitrust settlement in 1949, Northern Electric was owned principally by Bell Canada and the Western Electric Company of the Bell System, producing large volumes of telecommunication equipment based on licensed Western Electric designs. \n\nAt its height, Nortel accounted for more than a third of the total valuation of all the companies listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX), employing 94,500 people worldwide.\n\nIn 2009, Nortel filed for bankruptcy protection in Canada and the United States, triggering a 79% decline of its corporate stock. The bankruptcy case was the largest in Canadian history, and left pensioners, shareholders and former employees with enormous losses. By 2016 Nortel had sold billions of dollars' worth of assets. Courts in the U.S. and Canada approved a negotiated settlement of bankruptcy proceedings in 2017.\n\nAlexander Graham Bell conceived the technical aspects of the telephone and invented it in July 1874, while residing with his parents at their farm in Tutela Heights, on the outskirts of Brantford, Ontario. He later refined its design at Brantford after producing his first working prototype in Boston. Canada's first telephone factory, created by James Cowherd of Brantford, was a three-story brick building that soon started manufacturing telephones for the Bell System, leading to the city's style as \"The Telephone City\".\n\nAfter Cowherd's death in 1881 which resulted in the closure of his Brantford factory, a mechanical production department was created within the Bell Telephone Company of Canada and production of Canadian telephone equipment was transferred to Montreal in 1882, to compensate the restrictions on importing telephone equipment from the United States. In addition to telephones, four years later, the department started manufacturing switchboards, at first the 50-line Standard Magneto Switchboard. The small manufacturing department expanded yearly with the growth and popularity of the telephone to 50 employees in 1888. By 1890 it had been transformed into its own branch of operations with 200 employees, and a new factory was under construction.\n\nAs the manufacturing branch expanded, its production ability increased beyond the demand for telephones, and it faced closure for several months a year without manufacturing other products. The Bell Telephone Company of Canada's (later renamed to Bell Canada) charter prohibited the company to build other products. In 1895, the Bell Telephone of Canada spun off its manufacturing arm to build telephones for sale to other companies, as well as other products, such as fire alarm boxes, police street call boxes, and fire department call equipment. This company was incorporated as the Northern Electric and Manufacturing Company Limited.\n\nNorthern Electric and Manufacturing Company Limited was incorporated on December 7, 1895, by the following corporate members (or Board of Directors): Charles Fleetford Sise Sr., President of Bell Canada – Provisional Director; Robert Mackay, merchant – Provisional Director; Hugh Paton, manager of the Shedden Company – Provisional Director; The Hon. Joseph Rosaire Thibaudeau, Senator – Provisional Director; Robert Archer, gentleman – Provisional Director; Charles P. Sclater, secretary – Provisional Director; Lewis B. McFarlane, manager, all of the city and district of Montreal, Quebec.\n\nThe initial stock capital was $50,000 at $100 per share, with 93 percent held by the Bell Telephone Company of Canada and the remainder held by the seven corporate members above. The first general stockholders meeting was held on March 24, 1896.\n\nIn December 1899, The Bell Telephone Company of Canada bought a cabling company for $500,000; a Canadian charter named it \"The Wire and Cable Company\". Northern Electric and Manufacturing further expanded its product line in 1900, manufacturing the first Canadian wind-up gramophones that played flat discs. In 1911 the Wire and Cable company changed its name to the \"Imperial Wire and Cable Company\".\n\nThe construction of a new manufacturing plant started in 1913 at Shearer Street in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, as preparations began for the two manufacturing companies' integration. Then, in January 1914, the Northern Electric and Manufacturing Company and the Imperial Wire and Cable Company merged into the \"Northern Electric Company\", commonly known simply as Northern Electric, and the new company opened the doors on a new manufacturing plant in January 1915. This facility at Shearer Street was the primary manufacturing centre until the mid-1950s. Edward Fleetford Sise was the president and his brother Paul Fleetford Sise was the vice-president and general manager.\nDuring the First World War Northern Electric manufactured the Portable Commutator, a one-wire telegraphic switchboard for military operations in the field. In 1922, Northern started to produce, for $5, the \"Peanut\" vacuum tube, which required only a single dry-cell battery. The use of alternating current was still under development during this time. The \"Northern Electric Peanut tube was the smallest tube made, and drew only one-tenth of an ampere and was the most remarkable radio frequency amplifier ever made.\" During the 1920s Northern Electric made kettles, toasters, cigar lighters, electric stoves, and washing machines. In January 1923, Northern Electric started to operate an AM radio station with call letters CHYC, in the Shearer Street plant, and much of the programming was religious services for the Northern Electric employees and families in the community. In July 1923, CHYC-AM was the first radio station to provide entertainment to the riders of the transcontinental train, in a parlor car fitted with a radio set to receive the broadcast as it left Montreal and traveled west. Later in the 1920s, Northern created the first talking movie sound system in the British Empire for a theater in Montreal.\n\nDuring the Great Depression in the 1930s, Northern Electric was affected, like most other companies. From the beginning of 1930 through the end of 1933, sales dropped from $34 million to $8.2 million, and the number of employees dropped from 6,100 to 2,400.\n\nIn 1949, an antitrust suit in the U.S. forced AT&T/Western Electric to sell its stake in Northern Electric to Bell Canada. AT&T spun off Northern Electric in 1956. Deprived of its Western Electric tie, Northern began developing its own products. In 1953, Northern Electric produced its first television sets using tubes made by RCA.\nBell Canada acquired 100 percent of Northern Electric in 1964; through public stock offerings starting in 1973, Bell's ownership of Northern Electric and its successors would be reduced, though it continued to have majority control.\n\nIn 1966, the Northern Electric research lab, Northern Electric Laboratories (the predecessor to Bell-Northern Research), started looking into the possibilities of fiber optic cable, and in 1969, began work on digitizing telephone communications. Also in 1969, Northern began making inroads into the U.S. market with its switching systems. In 1972, it opened its first factory in the U.S. in Michigan. In 1975, Northern began shipping its first digital switching systems, one of the earliest such systems to be sold.\n\nNorthern Telecom was, with Bell-Northern Research, in the early 1970s a part owner of MicroSystems International a semiconductor manufacturer based in Nepean, outside Ottawa.\n\nIn 1976, the company name was changed to Northern Telecom Limited, and management announced its intention to concentrate the company's efforts on digital technology. Northern Telecom was the first company in its industry to announce and to deliver a complete line of fully digital telecommunications products. The product line was branded \"Digital World\" and included the well known DMS-100, a fully digital central office switch serving as many as 100,000 lines, which was a key contributor to the company's revenue for close to 15 years.\n\nStarting in 1977, Nortel grew rapidly after the introduction of its DMS line of digital central office telephone switches, especially after the AT&T breakup in 1984. Northern Telecom became a significant supplier in Europe and China and was the first non-Japanese supplier to Nippon Telegraph and Telephone.\n\nIn 1983, due to deregulation, Bell Canada Enterprises (later shortened to BCE) was formed as the parent company to Bell Canada and Northern Telecom. Bell-Northern Research was jointly owned 50–50 by Bell Canada and Northern Telecom. The combined three companies were referred to as the tricorporate.\n\nAs Nortel, the streamlined identity it adopted for its 100th anniversary in 1995, the company set out to dominate the burgeoning global market for public and private networks.\n\nIn 1998, with the acquisition of Bay Networks, the company's name was changed to Nortel Networks to emphasize its ability to provide complete solutions for multiprotocol, multiservice, global networking over the Internet and other communications networks. As a consequence of the stock transaction used to purchase Bay Networks, BCE ceased to be the majority shareholder of Nortel.\n\nIn 2000, BCE spun out Nortel, distributing its holdings of Nortel to its shareholders. Bell-Northern Research was gradually absorbed into Nortel, as it first acquired a majority share in BNR, and eventually acquired the entire company.\n\nIn the late 1990s, stock market speculators, hoping that Nortel would reap increasingly lucrative profits from the sale of fibre optic network gear, began pushing up the company's share price to unheard-of levels despite the company's repeated failure to turn a profit. Under the leadership of CEO John Roth, sales of optical equipment had been robust in the late 1990s, but the market was soon saturated. When the speculative telecom bubble of the late 1990s reached its pinnacle late in the year 2000, Nortel was to become one of the most spectacular casualties.\n\nAt its height, Nortel accounted for more than a third of the total valuation of all the companies listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX), employing 94,500 worldwide, with 25,900 in Canada alone. Nortel's market capitalization fell from C$398 billion in September 2000 to less than C$5 billion in August 2002, as Nortel's stock price plunged from C$124 to C$0.47. When Nortel's stock crashed, it took with it a wide swath of Canadian investors and pension funds and left 60,000 Nortel employees unemployed. Roth was criticized after it was revealed that he cashed in his own stock options for a personal gain of C$135 million in 2000 alone.\n\nCEO John Roth retired in 2001. His planned successor and chief operating officer, Clarence Chandran, already on sick leave due to complications following his 1997 stabbing in Singapore,\ndecided to quit, however.\nChief financial officer Frank Dunn was eventually chosen as Roth's permanent replacement.\n\nFrank Dunn presided over a dramatic restructuring of Nortel, which included laying off two-thirds of its workforce (60,000 staff) and writedowns of nearly US$16 billion in 2001 alone. This had some initial perceived success in turning the company around, with an unexpected return to profitability reported in the first quarter of 2003. The black ink triggered a total of $70 million in bonuses to the top 43 managers, with $7.8 million going to Dunn alone, $3 million to chief financial officer Douglas Beatty, and $2 million to controller Michael Gollogly. Independent auditor Deloitte & Touche advised audit committee chairman John Cleghorn and board chairman \"Red\" Wilson to look into the suspicious results, who promptly hired the law firm WilmerHale to vet the financial statements. In late October 2003, Nortel announced that it intended to restate approximately $900 million of liabilities carried on its previously reported balance sheet as of June 30, 2003, following a comprehensive internal review of these liabilities. The company stated that the restatement's principal effects would be a reduction in previously reported net losses for 2000, 2001, and 2002 and an increase in shareholders’ equity and net assets previously reported on its balance sheet. A dozen of the company's most senior executives returned $8.6 million of bonuses they were paid based on the erroneous accounting. Investigators ultimately found about $3 billion in revenue had been booked improperly in 1998, 1999, and 2000. More than $2 billion was moved into later years, about $750 million was pushed forward beyond 2003 and about $250 million was wiped away completely. The accounting scandal hurt both Nortel's reputation and finances, as Nortel spent an estimated US$400 million on outside auditors and management consultants to retrain staff.\n\nTo improve its liquidity, in 2003 Nortel arranged a US$750 million credit support facility with Export Development Canada. Walter Robinson of the Canadian Taxpayers Federation denounced the line of credit, calling it \"corporate welfare at its worst.\"\n\nOn April 28, 2004 amidst the accounting scandal, three of Nortel's top lieutenants—Douglas Beatty, CEO Frank Dunn and Michael Gollogly—were fired for financial mismanagement. They were later charged with fraud by the RCMP. The trial began on January 16, 2012, ending with acquittals for all three.\n\nThe United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) also filed charges against them and four vice-presidents for civil fraud. On December 19, 2014, remaining civil charges from the Ontario Securities Commission and SEC were simultaneously dropped.\n\nAfter Dunn's firing, retired United States Admiral Bill Owens – at the time a member of the board of directors – was appointed interim CEO. Nortel Networks subsequently returned to using the Nortel name for branding purposes only (the official company name was not changed). Nortel acquired PEC Solutions, a provider of information technology and telecommunications services to various government agencies and departments, in June 2005 and renamed it Nortel Government Solutions Incorporated (NGS). LG Electronics and Nortel formed a joint venture in August, with Nortel owning 50% plus one share, to offer telecom and networking solutions in the wireline, optical, wireless and enterprise areas for South Korean and global customers.\n\nPeter W. Currie, previously the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the Royal Bank of Canada, was named CFO of Nortel in 2005, having previously served as Northern Telecom's CFO in the 1990s. Gary Daichendt, the former Chief Operating Officer of Cisco Systems, was hired as President and COO, and was expected to succeed Owens as CEO. Shortly afterward, Daichendt appointed ex-Cisco Chief Science Officer Gary Kunis as Chief Technology Officer (CTO). Both Garys were concerned about the overall direction of Nortel, especially when compared to Cisco, their previous employer. Just three months later, Daichendt resigned after both his restructuring plan and his suggestion that Owens and Currie leave the company immediately were rejected by the board of directors. Kunis quit shortly thereafter. At the year's end, directors Lynton \"Red\" Wilson and John Cleghorn retired from the board.\n\nMike S. Zafirovski, who had served as President and CEO of GE Lighting and then as Motorola President and COO, succeeded Owens as president and CEO on November 15, 2005. Motorola filed a suit against Zafirovski's hiring, alleging that his new position would break the terms of the non-disclosure agreement he had signed. Nortel agreed to pay $11.5 million on his behalf to settle the lawsuit. Nortel also paid out US$575 million and 629 million common shares in 2006 to settle a class-action lawsuit that accused the company of misleading investors about the company's health.\n\nCurrie stepped down as Executive Vice President and CFO in early 2007. In February 2007, Nortel announced its plans to reduce its workforce by 2,000 employees, and to transfer an additional 1,000 jobs to lower-cost job sites. The Securities and Exchange Commission filed civil fraud charges against Nortel for accounting fraud from 2000 to 2003; the fraud was allegedly to close gaps between its true performance, its internal targets and Wall Street expectations. Nortel settled the case, paying $35 million, which the Commission distributed to affected shareholders, and reported periodically to the Commission on remedial measures to improve its financial accounting.\n\nNortel announced plans in February 2008 to eliminate 2,100 jobs, and to transfer another 1,000 jobs to lower-cost centres.\nAs part of the reductions, Nortel shut down its Calgary campus in 2009.\n\nDuring its reporting of third quarter 2008 results, Nortel announced it would restructure into three vertically-integrated business units: Enterprise, Carrier Networks, and Metro Ethernet Networks. As part of the decentralization of its organization, four executive positions were eliminated, effective January 1, 2009: Chief Marketing Officer - Lauren Flaherty; Chief Technology Officer - John Roese; Global Services President - Dietmar Wendt; and Executive Vice President Global Sales - Bill Nelson. A net reduction of 1,300 jobs was also announced. As its stock price dropped below $1, the New York Stock Exchange notified Nortel that it would be delisted if its common shares failed to rise above $1 per share within 6 months. Rumours continued to persist of Nortel's poor financial health, amid the late 2000s recession, and its bids for government funds were turned down.\n\nOn January 14, 2009, Nortel filed for protection from creditors, in the United States under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, in Canada under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act, and in the United Kingdom under the Insolvency Act 1986.\nNortel was the first major technology company to seek bankruptcy protection in this global downturn.\nNortel had an interest payment of $107 million due the next day, approximately 4.6% of its cash reserves of approximately $2.3 billion.\nAfter the announcement, the share price fell more than 79% on the Toronto Stock Exchange. Export Development Canada agreed to provide up to C$30 million in short-term financing through its existing credit support facility with Nortel. The Canadian government resisted characterizing its position on Nortel as a bailout.\n\nNortel initially hoped to re-emerge from bankruptcy, implementing a retention bonus plan in an effort to retain its top executives during the restructuring period. These bonuses, totaling US$45 million, were targeted at 1,000 executive positions. At the end of January 2009, Nortel announced that it would be discontinuing its WiMAX business and its agreement with Alvarion. Nortel subsequently sold its Layer 4–7 application delivery business to Israeli technology firm Radware for $18 million, after Radware had initially placed a stalking horse bid. Nortel had acquired the application switch product line in October 2000 when it purchased Alteon WebSystems.\n\nWith the worsening recession and stock market decline deterring potential companies from bidding for Nortel's assets, and many of Nortel's major customers reconsidering their relationships with the restructuring company, in June Nortel announced that it no longer planned to emerge from bankruptcy protection, and would seek buyers for all of its business units.\nAfter announcing it planned to sell off all of its assets, Nortel shares were delisted from the Toronto Stock Exchange on June 26, 2009 at a price of $0.185 per share, down from its high in 2000 when it comprised a third of the S&P/TSX composite index.\nMike Zafirovski subsequently resigned in August, and Nortel's board of directors was reorganized with three members instead of nine.\nNortel handed out $14.2 million in cash compensation to seven executives in 2009. Nortel also paid out $1.4 million to 10 former and current directors, and paid $140 million to lawyers, pension, human resources and financial experts helping to oversee the company's bankruptcy proceedings.\n\nNokia Siemens Networks made a stalking horse bid to purchase Nortel's CDMA and LTE assets for $650 million. By the July 21 deadline for additional bids, MatlinPatterson and Ericsson had made offers,\nand Ericsson emerged as the victor in the following auction, with a purchase price of $1.13 billion.\nAvaya won an auction for Nortel's Enterprise Solutions business, including Nortel's stake in Nortel Government Solutions and DiamondWare, for $900 million,\nafter having placed a stalking horse bid of $475 million.\nIn November, Nortel sold its MEN (Metro Ethernet Networks) unit to Ciena Corporation for US$530 million in cash and US$239 million in convertible notes,\nand its GSM business at auction to Ericsson and Kapsch for US$103 million.\nHitachi purchased the Next Generation Packet Core assets.\nAs insurance against judgments in class action lawsuits filed by former employees, John Roth filed in December 2009 for a US$1 billion indemnification from Nortel, joining the list of U.S. creditors.\n\nIn February 2010, Ernst & Young, the court-appointed monitor of Nortel's Canadian bankruptcy proceedings, reported that the assets of Nortel's Health and Welfare Trust had a shortfall of $37 million in its net assets as of December 31, 2008. The trust supports pensioners' medical, dental and life insurance benefits, as well as income support for some groups such as long-term disability recipients. Also in February, Nortel negotiated a $57-million deal to wind up the health care and other benefits provided to former Canadian employees. Shortly afterwards, Nortel proposed spending $92.3M on retention bonuses for 1,475 employees in its Nortel Business Services and Corporate groups, with $2.5 million in incentives going to Christopher Ricaute, president of Nortel Business Services; $27 million allocated for Canadian employees; and $55 million allocated for U.S. employees.\nThe proposed plan was later extended by an additional $27 million.\nClaiming that the retention bonuses proposal was extraordinary, acting US trustee Roberta DeAngelis objected to the payment of $55.6 million to 866 employees. However, court-appointed representatives for Nortel's former employees, who are creditors in the Ontario bankruptcy court, have signed an agreement to not oppose any employee incentive program.\n\nGenband purchased the Carrier VoIP and Application Solutions (CVAS) unit in May 2010, as Nortel accepted its stalking horse bid of $282 million, with adjustments that decreased the net sale price to about $100 million, without a formal bidding process.\nEricsson purchased Nortel's share in its joint venture with LG Electronics for US$242 million, forming LG-Ericsson, in June 2010.\nEricsson also purchased Nortel's final operating unit, the Multi-Service Switch division, in September 2010 for US$65 million.\nNortel's Ottawa campus on Carling Avenue was purchased by Public Works and Government Services Canada (PWGSC) in October 2010 for a cash purchase price of CDN$208 million,\nto serve as the new home of Canada's National Defence Headquarters.\n\nNortel's 53.13% stake in Turkish company Nortel Netaş was acquired by One Equity Partners (OEP) and Rhea Investments for $68 million in December 2010.\n\nThe last major asset of Nortel, approximately 6,000 patents and patent applications encompassing technologies such as wireless, wireless 4G, data networking, optical, voice, Internet, and semiconductors, was sold for $4.5 billion to a consortium including Apple, EMC, Ericsson, Microsoft, BlackBerry Limited, and Sony, pending American and Canadian court approval.\n(Google had placed the initial stalking horse bid of $900 million and later upped the bid to $1,902,160,540, then $2,614,972,128, and eventually $3.14159 billion, which are references to Brun's constant, Meissel–Mertens constant, and pi.) Bankruptcy filings state that Nortel owes former Canadian engineers $285,000 for patent awards that were not paid.\n\nIn October 2011, the administrators of Nortel's British subsidiary lost their appeal to overturn a court order requiring them to pay £2.1 billion into Nortel's underfunded pension plan.\n\nNortel Networks U.S. retirement income plan is now managed by PBGC Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation\n\nJanuary 2014, a pact between U.S. and European divisions of Nortel Networks is approved by a U.S. court.\n\nHowever, litigation continued. In April 2016, Nortel Networks Corp. went back to court for a fresh round of legal arguments in a seven-year-old bankruptcy which has cost creditors about $2 billion including attorney fees.\n\nCourts in the U.S. and Canada approved a negotiated settlement among competing creditors in January 2017.\n\nNortel made telecommunications, computer network equipment and software. It served both general businesses and communications carriers (landline telephone, mobile phone, and cable TV carriers). Technologies included telephonic (voice) equipment, fiber optics, local wireless, and multimedia.\n\nPast products included:\n\nIn 2016 the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, reported that lawyers and accountants received $2.5 billion from Nortel's estate\n\nIn September 1991, Julian Assange of WikiLeaks was discovered in the act of hacking into the Melbourne master terminal of Nortel.\n\nIn 2004, it was discovered that crackers (malicious hackers) gained almost complete access to Nortel's systems. Beginning in 2000, for nearly ten years they accessed documents including emails, technical papers, research, development reports, and business plans. The breach was not properly addressed by the time the company started selling some of its assets in 2009, following a bankruptcy filing. The Wall Street Journal reports that hackers working from Chinese IP addresses had used seven passwords of Nortel executives, including a former CEO, to penetrate networks owned by the company.\n\nBrian Shields, a former systems security advisor for Nortel, led an internal investigation into the breach and exposed rootkit software on at least two machines in 2009 that allowed hackers to control them remotely and monitor email. Despite the original discovery in 2004 and the subsequent investigation that led to the rootkit detection in 2009, Nortel allegedly ignored the problem and failed to disclose it to potential buyers of its business. Avaya and Genband both acquired parts of Nortel, and some employees used old Nortel machines connected to the new companies' networks. Although Avaya says it has dealt with the issue, Shields says \"it's despicable that Nortel didn't say anything,\" leaving it up to him to inform the new company of his investigation. Nortel refused to comment on The Wall Street Journal report, but former CEO Mike Zafirovski, in charge between 2005 and 2009, claimed the company \"did not believe it was a real issue.\"\nMr. Shields went on to tell the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation that he believes the extensive cyberattacks on Nortel contributed to its downfall.\n\nOn February 16, 2003, the Winnipeg Sun published an article criticising the Canadian Federal government for propping up \"mega-loser Nortel\" through Export Development Canada (EDC). The article interviewed Walter Robinson of the Canadian Taxpayers Federation who termed this EDC support as \"corporate welfare at its worst.\". Mr Robinson was appalled that Canadians who already lost billions on Nortel on the stock market would be asked for even more money through their taxes to support Nortel.\n\nEDC had agreed to provide up to $30 million in short-term financing through an existing bonding facility. The Canadian government resisted characterizing its position on Nortel as a bailout.\n\nThere have been reports of financial irregularities at Nortel's Health and Welfare Trust. Diane Urquhart, a financial analyst, testified before a parliamentary committee that $100 million is missing from the HWT and that a $37 million loan to the corporation has not been paid back. The HWT was an unregistered trust maintained by Nortel to provide medical, dental, life insurance, long-term disability and survivor income and pension transition benefits.\nUntil 2005 Nortel fully funded the disability insurance in its HWT. However, it is alleged that since then, the HWT Governance Committees and third party trustee, Northern Trust, breached their fiduciary duties to protect Nortel's disabled employees and survivors of deceased employees by allowing Nortel to misdirect over $100 million from the HWT for purposes inconsistent with the terms of the HWT.\nAs of March 1, 2012, Northern Trust continues to act as the paying agent for Canadian Nortel pensioners.\n\nIn 2007, both the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Ontario Securities Commission laid charges against former senior financial officials from Nortel including Frank Dunn who was fired from Nortel in 2004. Frank Dunn was promoted from chief financial officer to replace John A. Roth as CEO in November 2001. According to the SEC, Dunn and three other financial officers began to fudge revenue by misusing \"bill and hold\" transactions starting \"no later than September, 2000\". The SEC said that at least a year's worth of the alleged book-keeping took place while John Roth was still CEO of Nortel, even though no charges were laid against him.\n\nOn June 23, 2010, the News and Observer published a story criticizing treatment pensioners have been receiving from their former employer, Nortel. According to the article, Nortel has asked a federal court to terminate medical coverage, prescription drug coverage, long-term disability, and life insurance of 4,000 retirees and dependents, claiming the benefits are costing the company $2 million per month. Nortel blamed the company's creditors for this decision.\n\nIn the middle of the decade several class-action lawsuits were filed against John Roth and others, by former employees who felt that their 401K company plans were depleted due to misrepresentation by the defendants. They claimed they were duped into investing in Nortel stock, when those who encouraged them to do so allegedly knew that the company was ailing. John Roth left Nortel in 2001 with more than $130 million.\n\nIn 2009, Mr. Roth filed a claim for $1 billion, aiming to become a creditor to the assets of Nortel along with all other Nortel employees, in case the class action lawsuits against him succeeded.\n\nDuring Nortel's 2002 annual shareholders' meeting held in Halifax, Nova Scotia, several shareholders (including Robert Verdun) complained about non-arms-length relationships with service providers such as director Yves Fortier, who provided legal services to Nortel while sitting on its board, and Nortel's auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, who were paid $15 million for non-auditing services.\n\nNortel's current headquarters is located at 5945 Airport Road in Mississauga, Ontario. Previous locations of its head offices include Brampton, Ontario (sold to Rogers Communications in 2006 and now known as Rogers Park, Brampton) and 195 The West Mall in Toronto (now used by SNC-Lavalin).\n\nNortel expanded into the U.S. in 1971. The company eventually had employees in over 100 locations in the U.S. with R&D, software engineering, and sales centres in many states including California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, North Carolina, Texas, and Virginia. Nortel's full-service R&D centres were located in Ottawa (its R&D headquarters), Beijing, and Guangzhou. In Canada, Nortel also has R&D sites in Montreal, Belleville, and Calgary. In the United States, Nortel's major R&D sites were in Research Triangle Park (North Carolina), Richardson (Texas), Billerica (Massachusetts), and Santa Clara.\n\nNortel had a significant presence in Europe, Middle East, Africa, the Caribbean, and Latin America. Nortel delivered network infrastructure and communication services to customers across Asia in (mainland) China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, Japan, Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia, India, Pakistan, Australia, New Zealand, and Turkey (Nortel owned 53.17% of Nortel Netaş, originally established as a joint venture with Turkish PTT in 1967).\nIn addition, the company had three joint ventures in the People's Republic of China, including Guangdong Nortel Telecommunications Equipment (GDNT), which operated Nortel's full service R&D centres in China.\n\nAt the start of 2010, based on membership in Nortel's benefit plan, there were 1,637 employees working for Nortel Networks and 982 working for Nortel Technology in Canada.\nIn February 2008, Nortel employed approximately 32,550 people worldwide, including 6,800 employees in Canada and 11,900 in the United States. Nortel operations were divided into the following segments:\n\nNortel's board of directors resigned and the board disbanded effective October 3, 2012. All remaining executive officers also resigned effective this date. As part of the wind-down process, a court order was issued providing Ernst & Young Inc., the court-appointed monitor in Nortel's creditor protection proceedings, the ability to exercise any powers which may be properly exercised by a board of directors of Nortel.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34763887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34763887", "title": "Orange-Book-Standard", "text": "Orange-Book-Standard\n\nOrange-Book-Standard (Az. KZR 39/06) is a decision issued on May 6, 2009 by the Federal Court of Justice of Germany (, BGH) on the interaction between patent law and standards, and more generally between intellectual property law and competition law. The Court held that a defendant, accused of patent infringement and who was not able to obtain a license from the patentee, may defend himself, under certain conditions, by invoking an abuse of a dominant market position.\n\nThe name \"Orange-Book-Standard\" comes from the Orange Book that contained the format specifications for CD-Rs, the technology at issue in the case that led to the Orange-Book-Standard decision.\n\n\n\nFurther reading:\n"}
{"id": "26738644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26738644", "title": "Orphan works in the United States", "text": "Orphan works in the United States\n\nAn orphan work is a copyrighted work whose owner is impossible to identify or contact. This inability to request permission from the copyright owner often means orphan works cannot be used in new works nor digitized, except when fair use exceptions apply. Until recently, public libraries could not distribute orphaned books without risking being fined up to $150,000 if the owner of the copyright were to come forward. This problem was addressed in the 2011 case \"Authors Guild et al. v. Google\".\n\nThe orphan works problem arose in the United States from the Copyright Act of 1976, which eliminated the need to register copyrighted works. Instead, according to , all \"original works of authorship fixed in any tangible medium of expression\" are automatically granted copyright protection. This Act made obtaining and maintaining copyright protection substantially easier than the previous Copyright Act of 1909. It also made unnecessary any central recording system to track and identify copyright-holders, but also made it difficult to find or contact the creator of a copyrighted work if the person or organization was not readily known. Thus, any use of the orphaned work outside of what is permitted as fair use is potentially a violation of copyright. Potential users of orphaned works are often not willing to take on that risk of copyright violation, so they may individually investigate the copyright status of each work they plan to use.\n\nTo some, this scenario is not in the public interest; it limits works that are available to the public. It also discourages the creation of new works that incorporate existing works. Creators who want to use an orphan work are often unwilling to do so for fear that they will have to pay a huge amount of money in damages if the owner ever appears; the risk of additional liability or litigation may be too high. This makes the work of historians, archivists, artists, scholars, and publishers at times more difficult and costly than necessary. The issue arises in Wikipedia, where the copyright owner of a photo that would have illustrated an article may be unknown.\n\nLibraries and archives do have limited privileges to make copies of certain orphan works under section H of .\n\nIn January 2006, the United States Copyright Office released a report on orphan works. This report was the culmination of a year-long study conducted by the office, based on open forums from the public to collect input.\n\nIn it, the Copyright Office states that new legislation is desperately needed to address the orphan works problem. The report proposed that if a nonprofit organization such as a library used an orphan work and the copyright owner came forward, then the library would be exempt from huge copyright infringement fines as long as it stopped using the orphan work right away. Commercial uses of an orphan work in which the owner came forward would only be charged a \"reasonable compensation\" of the profits, and use of the work would be allowed to continue.\n\nThe Office's proposed solution is thought to have favored publishers, and disfavored archivists and scholars.\n\nBeginning in May 2006, various legislative bills have been introduced in Congress aimed at addressing the issue of orphan works. As of 2016, Congress has not yet passed any legislation.\n\nIn 2018, the Music Modernization Act established a framework for orphan work sound recordings to be used: the user must submit the orphan work to the United States Copyright Office, at which point any copyright holder will be given 90 days to come forward and object to its use. If no rights holder emerges, or if the user successfully establishes the use is a noncommercial fair use of the recording, the recording may be used freely.\n\nThe University of Michigan (UM) is leading the HathiTrust orphan works project, an initiative to make orphan works published between 1923 and 1963 on HathiTrust available to the UM community. However, the project was put on hold as of September 2011 in the wake of a lawsuit filed against HathiTrust, UM, and four other member universities by the Authors Guild, Australian and Canadian authors' organizations, and eight authors to stop them from \"reproducing, distributing and/or displaying\" copyrighted works. This case was settled in HathiTrust's favor in \"Authors Guild, Inc. v. HathiTrust\" on January 6, 2015.\n\nThe Internet Archive in October 2017 started making available online some orphan works published between 1923 and 1941 included, forming a collection called the \"Sonny Bono memorial\" (after Sonny Bono, an entertainer and advocate for perpetual copyright for whom the Copyright Term Extension Act was named).\nThe effort is made possible by 17 U.S.C. §108(h) when applied according to some actionable criteria proposed by scholars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42308421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42308421", "title": "Political decay", "text": "Political decay\n\nPolitical decay is a political theory, originally described by Samuel P. Huntington, which describes how chaos and disorder can arise from social modernization increasing more rapidly than political and institutional modernization. Huntington provides different definitions for political development and describes the forms of political decay according to the various definitions. Huntington focuses primarily on political development as modernization and institutionalization. However, he points to the different definitions of political development as being arbitrary ways to understanding the rise of political systems and the relationship between the political systems in different nations.\n\nHuntington identifies two characteristics of political development. The first is that development is synonymous with modernization, thus political development can be defined as political modernization. The second is that there are many criteria to measure political development because modernization and development are such broad topics, covering many areas. There are four generally agreed-upon criteria to determine political development. The first is rationalization, which involves the movement from particularism to universalism, or, from a political standpoint, a focus on functional differentiation and achievement criteria. The second criterion is nationalism, and national integration. This emphasizes nation-states and nation-building as a key aspect of political development. The third criterion is a focus on democratization, which is in essence a focus on competition and equalization of power. The final criterion is mobilization, which is a focus on political participation. The greater the development, the greater the modernization, the greater the mobilization, and therefore the greater the political participation. Ultimately, political development can be defined as an increase in national political unity and an increase in political participation.\n\nAccording to Huntington's definition of political development as modernization, political decay is the opposite of the linear idea of social progress—although, within the model of modernization, social regression is not possible. Instead, political decay takes place because \"modern and modernizing states can change by losing capabilities as well as by gaining them. In addition, a gain in any one capability usually involves costs in others.\" The model of modernization was used to compare the political systems of different countries with social development reflecting the linear progression of political institutions. However, research into the relationship between development of political institutions and modernization has pointed to inconsistent development. In some political systems, such as certain Latin American regions, governments have been influenced by military intervention as a result of the government's inability to cope with the strains of modernization.\n\nUnder the framework of political development as institutional development, political decay occurs when institutions fail to change or adapt when they become unnecessary due to social or economic changes. Dan Halvorson challenges the idea of political decay as an institutional failure by claiming that the idea of political decay is tied to a Western ideal of political institution without taking into account widely-varying cultural institutions and the inability of post-colonial states to adapt to Western ideals. Fukuyama refers to political decay as the social and economic forces that upset the equilibrium of established political order. Institutions of the Roman Empire government failed to meet the moral and economic needs of the citizens, resulting in the conditions that would facilitate political decay and the fall of the Roman state. Under the institutional model, political decay can be observed as a decrease in competence and credibility and establishment of institutional corruption over a period of time.\n\nDifferent social and economic factors contribute to both the political development as well as the political decay of nations. Outside forces such as foreign governments affect the stability of established governments due to contrasting social institutions or economic interests. In order to be considered stable, government procedures and institutions must maintain autonomy and be resistant to outside agents. The social and economic forces that established political stability could change or disappear, leading to internal instability. Economic development, such as shifts from agriculture-based economy to manufacturing-based economy, as well as economic collapse, can also lead to political instability. Social developments, such as the proliferation of literacy, lead to the rise and spread of new ideas.\n\nPolitical instability occurs when one faction in a state's government is in opposition with another faction or with another institution in government. Sri Lanka saw a period of political instability following elections in 1994 caused by the ambitions of political leaders. The elected President Kumaratunga attempted to change the constitution and dissolve the parliament in order to remain in power, leading to sudden changes in the structure of the law-making body. Political instability occurred during the late 18th century in France and other parts of Europe during the 19th century. Political development in France, such as the development of the bureaucracy and other institutions, led to a greater demand for meritocracy and greater political conflict among the ruling class. In some cases, political breakdown can occur within the framework of a state's constitution. India has provisions its constitution which grant leaders the power to breach or oppose the constitution in cases of emergency. These breaches of the state law from within the political system can lead to political decay.\n\nHuntington's model of political development and decay describes elements such as industrialization, urbanization, education and literacy as social developments that create instability. The presence of violent conflict is not always indicative of social decay. Due to the complex character of state-building and shifts in political systems, violence is not a reliable indicator of political decay or development. The socialization of law is a process by which legislation is changed in order to adapt to economic and social changes. Socialization of law is one of the forces that opposes political decay within Huntington's structure of modernization, by ensuring that the political institutions in place are resistant to social instability.\n\nHuntington's former student, Francis Fukuyama, has developed the theory of political decay by analysing the sclerosis of democratic institutions in the United States and elsewhere. The second of Fukuyama's two volumes on political order, \"Political Order and Political Decay\" (2014), echoes the title of Huntington's seminal 1965 essay. Fukuyama focuses on the concept of political decay in the framework of a history of the rise and fall of Chinese dynasties and the causes of political and social stability during each dynasty.\n"}
{"id": "32747511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32747511", "title": "Political violence in Germany (1918–33)", "text": "Political violence in Germany (1918–33)\n\nSubstantial political violence existed in Germany from the fall of the House of Hohenzollern and the rise of the Weimar Republic through the German Revolution of 1918–19 until the rise of the Nazi Party to power in 1933 when a Nazi totalitarian state was formed and opposition figures were arrested.\n\nDue to unrest left from the change of government from a monarchy, based on social standing, to a democratic republic, the people of Germany turned to riots and violence. The drastic change allowed for mobility amongst the classes and new voices to be heard. Many large cities, especially Berlin, experienced political rallies which resulted in violence from opposition. The quick overturn of leaders also influenced crises in the interwar period. Ultimately the National socialists took advantage of the radical setting of Germany but leading to this there was great amounts of political violence.\n\n"}
{"id": "10091454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10091454", "title": "Reclusione Militare", "text": "Reclusione Militare\n\nReclusione Militaire is a term for time served in a military jail by members of the Italian Armed Forces.\n\nThe term of the sentences that may be served by inmates ranges from a minimum of 1 month to a maximum of 30 years. All service members sentenced must do hard labor while incarcerated. Anyone sentenced to more than 5 years is discharged from the armed forces and may not return.\n\nOfficers who are sentenced and have not been given a reduction in rank from officer have the right to serve their time in a special section of the military jail.\n\nArticle number 26 of the Italian military penal code discusses this penalty.\n\nhttp://www.difesa.it/GiustiziaMilitare/Legislazione/CPM-pace/Libro+Primo/Titolo+II+-+Delle+pene+militari.htm\n"}
{"id": "4158267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4158267", "title": "Self-dealing", "text": "Self-dealing\n\nSelf-dealing is the conduct of a trustee, attorney, corporate officer, or other fiduciary that consists of taking advantage of his position in a transaction and acting in his own interests rather than in the interests of the beneficiaries of the trust, corporate shareholders, or his clients. According to the political scientist Andrew Stark, \"[i]n self-dealing, an officeholder's official role allows her to affect one or more of her own personal interests.\" It is a form of conflict of interest.\n\nSelf-dealing may involve misappropriation or usurpation of corporate assets or opportunities. Political scientists Ken Kernaghan and John Langford define self-dealing as \"a situation where one takes an action in an official capacity which involves dealing with oneself in a private capacity and which confers a benefit on oneself.\"\n\nExamples include \"work[ing] for government and us[ing] your official position to secure a contract for a private consulting company you own\" or \"using your government position to get a summer job for your daughter.\"\n\nWhere a fiduciary has engaged in self-dealing, this constitutes a breach of the fiduciary relationship. The principal of that fiduciary (the person to whom duties are owed) may sue and both recover the principal's lost profits and disgorge the fiduciary's wrongful profits.\n\nRepeated self-dealing by a private foundation can result in the involuntary termination of its tax-exempt status.\n"}
{"id": "5955829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5955829", "title": "Series of tubes", "text": "Series of tubes\n\n\"A series of tubes\" is a phrase coined originally as an analogy by then-United States Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) to describe the Internet in the context of opposing network neutrality. On June 28, 2006, he used this metaphor to criticize a proposed amendment to a committee bill. The amendment would have prohibited Internet service providers such as AT&T, Comcast, Time Warner Cable and Verizon Communications from charging fees to give some companies' data a higher priority in relation to other traffic. The metaphor has been widely ridiculed, particularly because Stevens displayed an extremely limited understanding of the Internet, even though he was in charge of the Senate committee with the responsibility for regulating it. Edward Felten, Princeton University professor of computer science, pointed out the unfairness of some criticisms of Stevens' wording, while maintaining that the underlying arguments were rather weak.\n\nOn June 28, 2006, Public Knowledge government affairs manager Alex Curtis wrote a brief blog entry introducing the senator's speech and posted an MP3 recording. The next day, the \"Wired\" magazine blog \"27B Stroke 6\" featured a lengthier post by Ryan Singel, which included Singel's transcriptions of some parts of Stevens' speech considered the most humorous. Within days, thousands of other blogs and message boards posted the story.\n\nMost writers and commentators derisively cited several of Stevens' misunderstandings of Internet technology, arguing that the speech showed that he had formed a strong opinion on a topic which he understood poorly (e.g., referring to an e-mail message as \"an Internet\" and blaming bandwidth issues for an e-mail problem much more likely to be caused by mail server or routing issues). The story sparked mainstream media attention, including a mention in the \"New York Times\". The technology podcast \"This Week in Tech\" discussed the incident.\n\nAccording to \"The Wall Street Journal\", as summarized by MediaPost commentator Ross Fadner, \"'The Internet is a Series of Tubes!' spawned a new slogan that became a rallying cry for Net neutrality advocates. ... Stevens' overly simplistic description of the Web's infrastructure made it easy for pro-neutrality activists to label the other side as old and out-of-touch.\" Several parodies of Senator Stevens' speech have been created, usually consisting of samples taken from this speech with an added melody.\n\n\"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\" has made multiple references to \"Techno\" Ted Stevens's \"series of tubes\" description; as a result, Stevens has become well known as the person who once headed the committee charged with regulating the Internet. \"I have a letter from a big scientist who said I was absolutely right in using the word 'tubes',\" Stevens said to reporters in response to \"The Daily Show\"s coverage. When asked if he'd think about going on the show to debate Jon Stewart, Stevens replied, \"I'd consider it.\"\n\nGoogle has included references to this in two of its products. Gears' about box says \"the gears that power the tubes\" and Google Chrome had an easter egg at the address about:internets which displayed a screensaver of tubes (if Windows XP's SSPIPES.SCR is installed) with the page title \"Don't Clog the Tubes!\" When \"about:internets\" was entered on a computer lacking that screensaver, the tab displayed a gray screen with the page title \"The Tubes are Clogged!\" This easter egg was removed as of the 2.0.159.1 release. The documentation for developing Chrome extensions includes a near-verbatim quote of the \"series of tubes\" paragraph when describing its \"chrome.storage\" class.\n\nOn June 3, 2017, the British YouTuber Pyrocynical uploaded a pilot of a new series on his channel, which he named A Series of Tubes. Commonly abbreviated as ASOT, his series centered around giving commentary on recent events, especially those related to YouTube.\n\nAlexandra Petri of the \"Washington Post\" wrote a humorous article entitled \"Sen. Stevens, the tubes salute you\" after Stevens died in an airplane crash August 9, 2010:\nAnd as people remember him, make ill-timed jests, and muse on his legacy—all in real time, in great profusion—I worry that they are disrupting the ability of people elsewhere to receive their Internets. But for us in the Facebook generation who weren't around for the first plane crash and know the Bridge to Nowhere primarily as an SNL punchline, the senator's legacy is in that series of tubes.\nThe \"Bridge to Nowhere\" refers to the Gravina Island Bridge, another issue Stevens was responsible for, for which he was also mocked.\n\n"}
{"id": "376560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376560", "title": "Strict constructionism", "text": "Strict constructionism\n\nIn the United States, strict constructionism refers to a particular legal philosophy of judicial interpretation that limits or restricts judicial interpretation.\n\nStrict construction requires a judge to apply the text only as it is written. Once the court has a clear meaning of the text, no further investigation is required. Judges—in this view—should avoid drawing inferences from a statute or constitution and focus only on the text itself. Justice Hugo Black (1886–1971) argued that the First Amendment's injunction, that \"Congress shall make no law\" (against certain civil rights), should be construed strictly: \"no law\", thought Black, admits \"no exceptions\". However, \"strict construction\" is not a synonym for textualism or originalism. Antonin Scalia, a major proponent of textualism, said that \"no one ought to be\" a strict constructionist, although to be a strict constructionist was preferred to being a \"nontextualist\".\n\nThe term often contrasts with the phrase \"judicial activism\", used to describe judges who seek to enact legislation through court rulings, although the two terms are not actually opposites.\n\n\"Strict constructionism\" is also used in American political discourse as an umbrella term for conservative legal philosophies such as originalism and textualism, which emphasize judicial restraint and fidelity to the original meaning of constitutions and laws. It is frequently used even more loosely to describe any conservative judge or legal analyst. This usage is pervasive, but in some tension with the legal meaning of the term. For example, on the campaign trail in 2000, when speaking on his choices for new Supreme Court Justices, George W. Bush promised to appoint \"strict constructionists in the mold of Justices Rehnquist, Scalia, and Thomas\", though Thomas considers himself an originalist, and Scalia outright rejected strict construction, calling it \"a degraded form of textualism\", his modus operandi.\n\nThe use of the term strict construction in American politics is not new. The term was used regularly by members of the Democratic-Republican Party and Democrats during the antebellum period when they argued that powers of the federal government listed in Article I should be strictly construed. They embraced this approach in the hope that it would ensure that the bulk of governmental power would remain with the states and not be usurped by the federal government via novel interpretations of its powers. Perhaps the best known example of this approach is Jefferson's opinion arguing against the constitutionality of a national bank. Because the vagueness of Article I inevitably lent itself to broad interpretations as well as narrow ones, strict constructionists turned to the somewhat restrained descriptions of the powers of Congress that were offered by advocates of the Constitution during ratification. Thus, politicians who identified themselves as strict constructionists embraced an approach to constitutional interpretation that resembles what we today call originalism.\n\nA broadly accepted, but possibly apocryphal, story has Davy Crockett delivering a speech called \"Not Yours To Give\", in which he urged the United States Congress to reject an appropriation for a Naval widow on the grounds that Congress had no Constitutional authority to give charity. He was said to have been inspired to this view by Horatio Bunce, a constituent in his district and by accounts given, a strict constructionist.\n\nThe term began to be used by conservative and moderate Republican presidents beginning with Richard Nixon in 1968 when he was running for election. His pledge was to appoint justices that interpret the law and reinstate \"law and order\" to the judiciary. He appointed four justices that seemed to be of that philosophy. One of them, however, shifted leftward, while another became a moderate. The other two were in the mold of what most think of in terms of strict constructionists. Gerald Ford, when running to serve a full term of his own distanced himself from this issue. Ronald Reagan, however, also promised \"Strict Constructionists\". All three of his US Supreme Court nominees loosely fell into this category. Still one was more of an originalist while the other two were fairly conservative. Every major Republican nominee since Reagan has promised to nominate only strict constructionists for the US Supreme Court and mostly such judges for other federal courts.\n\nThe term has been criticized as being a misleading or meaningless term. Few judges self-identify as strict constructionists, due to the narrow meaning of the term. Antonin Scalia, the justice most identified with the term, once wrote: \"I am not a strict constructionist, and no one ought to be\", calling the philosophy \"a degraded form of textualism that brings the whole philosophy into disrepute\". Scalia summarized his textualist approach as follows: \"A text should not be construed strictly, and it should not be construed leniently; it should be construed reasonably, to contain all that it fairly means.\" He continued with one real case to differentiate them:\n\nConstitutional scholar John Hart Ely believed that \"strict constructionism\" is not really a philosophy of law or a theory of interpretation, but a coded label for judicial decisions popular with a particular political party.\n\nIn law, strictly literal interpretations of statutes can lead one to logically deduce absurdities, and the doctrine of absurdity is that commonsense interpretations should be used in such cases, rather than literal reading of a law or of original intent. The absurdity doctrine is a doctrine in legal theory, also known as \"scrivener's error exception\"; in which American courts have interpreted statutes contrary to their plain meaning in order to avoid absurd legal conclusions. It has been described as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "6468822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6468822", "title": "United States House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law", "text": "United States House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law\n\nThe Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL) is a former subcommittees of the United States House Committee on the Judiciary. It was incorporated into the Subcommittee on Courts, Commercial and Administrative Law during the 112th Congress.\n\nFrom the House Rules: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "15618168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15618168", "title": "Victorian Commission for Gambling Regulation", "text": "Victorian Commission for Gambling Regulation\n\nThe Victorian Commission for Gambling Regulation (VCGR) was the gambling regulator in the Australian state of Victoria from 2004 until February 2012. The VCGR was part of the Victorian Department of Justice.\n\nThe VCGR regulated the four gambling operators who held a gambling licence in Victoria:\n\n\nOn 6 February, 2012, the VCGR merged with Responsible Alcohol Victoria and formed the Victorian Commission for Gambling and Liquor Regulation (VCGLR). \nThe VCGLR takes on and integrates the roles and functions of the Victorian Commission for Gambling Regulation, the Director of Liquor Licensing and the Liquor Licensing Panel. The Commission has the power to undertake disciplinary actions and assumes the administrative and educative functions of Responsible Alcohol Victoria.\n\n"}
